176 LOWER 'EXTREMITY. nerve to the obturator internus muscle. interims muscle. Cut the obturator interims muscle at the small sacro-sciatic foramen and the gemelli muscles from their internal attachments, as in Plate 100 Section the obturator externus muscle (Plate 99) ; reflect it internally and cut it where it passes anterior to the tuberosity of the ischium, as in Plate 100. 50. Nerve to the Gemellus Inferior Muscle, Plates 99 and 100.— The nerve to this muscle enters its anterior face ; it is a branch of the nerve to the quadratus femoris muscle. 51. Bursa of tile Obturator Internus Muscle, Fig. 1, Plate 4.—This large bursa is anterior to the obturator internus mus- cle, near the small sacro-sciatic foramen. Dissection.-Section the gluteal artery and the superior gluteal nerve (Plate 99) and clear away their branches; cut the gluteus minimus muscle Plate 99) and reflect it, superiorly, to its ilial attachment, from which it may be cut away, as in Plate 100. Section the pyriformis muscle (Plate 99) and reflect it internally; cut it close to the great sacro-sciatic foramen, as in Hate 100. Follow the nerve to the quadratus femoris muscle, superiorly (Plate J9). _ de- termine the parts passing through the great and small sacro-sciatic foramina. 52. Xerve to the Quadratus Femoris Musele, Plates 99 and 100 —This nerve, from the sacral plexus, emerges from the pel- vic cavity by the great sacro-sciatic foramen, from the anterior of the pyriformis muscle; it continues interiorly, upon the bone (ischium), anterior to the gemellus superior, obturator in- ternus, and gemellus inferior muscles ; it sends a branch to the gemellus inferior muscle, and its terminal portion enters the anterior surface of the quadratus femoris muscle. It is accom- panied by a small branch from the sciatic artery. 53. Parts Emerging at the Great Saero-Seiatie Foramen, Plate 100 —The parts emerging from this foramen are : the pyriformis muscle; the pudic, the gluteal, and the sciatic ar- teries, with their comites veins ; the great sciatic, the interior and superior gluteal, the small sciatic, and the pudic nerves; also the nerves to the obturator internus and the quadratus femoris muscles. 54. Parts Passing through the Small Sacro-Sciatic Fora- men.-The parts passing through this foramen are: from within outwards, the obturator internus muscle ; from without in- wards, the pudic artery and vein, the pudic nerve, and the