UPPER EXTREMITY. 196 13. Inferior Cutaneous Branch of the Musculo-Spiral Nerve.—This nerve appears, for a portion of its course, at the outer side of the radial vein ; it is continued to the radial side of the forearm. Dissection.—Kemove the fascia from the pectoralis major muscle and the humeral ends of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles ; expose the serrations of the serratus magnus muscle. Dissect out of the adipose tissue in the axilla the arteries and nerves upon the axillary surfaces of these muscles. Display the boundaries of the axilla. 14. Pectoralis Major Muscle, Plates 113 and 116.—This is the superficial muscle of the anterior thoracic parietes. It ex- tends from the sternum, the costal cartilages—second to sixth, inclusive—and the internal half of the antero-inferior border of the clavicle. It is attached, externally, to the outer lip of the bicipital groove of the humerus ; an interval presents be- tween its sternal and clavicular portions. Its inferior border forms the anterior fold or border of the axilla. 15. Latissimus Dorsi Muscle, Plates 113, and 116 to 120, in- clusive.—The superior end of this muscle winds from the pos- terior of the trunk, to reach its humeral attachment. Its an- terior free border, from the thorax to the humerus, forms the posterior fold of the axilla. 16. Teres Major Muscle.—This muscle lies posteriorly to the humeral end of the latissimus dorsi muscle, extending from the posterior surface of the scapula, near its angle, to the hu- merus. It contributes to the posterior fold of the axilla. 17. Serratus Magnus Muscle, Plate 116.—The exteriors of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth serrations of this muscle form the thoracic floor of the exposed portion of the axilla between the pectoralis major and the latissimus dorsi muscles. Those ! to the fifth and sixth ribs form an interdigitation with the su- perior digitation of the obliquus externus muscle. 18. Lateral Cutaneous Branches of the Intercostal Nerves and Arteries.—The lateral cutaneous branches of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth intercostal nerves emerge between the serrations of the serratus magnus muscle. They are ac- companied by the lateral branches of the corresponding inter- costal arteries.