298 UPPER EXTREMITY. tendon of the extensor minimi digiti muscle. The continua- tions of the terminal tendons of this muscle to the dorsal sur- faces of the digits second to fifth, inclusive, will be described hereafter. 8. Extensor Minimi Digiti Muscle, Plates 163 and 165.— This muscle has the same proximal attachment as the last-de- scribed muscle ; its course through the forearm is parallel with, and to the inner side of it. Its tendon diverges to the inner side ; passes through a special compartment of the posterior annular ligament; crosses the metacarpus to the dorsum of the fifth digit; and receives the fusion of the accessory tendon from the extensor communis digitorum muscle. The tendon of this muscle, as it presents upon the dorsal surface of the digit, will be described hereafter. 9. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris Muscle, Plates 163, 165, 167, 168 and 169.—This muscle has its proximal attachment to the humerus, by the compound extensor attachment thereto ; it is continued through the forearm, between the last-described muscle to the outer side, and the shaft of the ulna to the inner side ; it crosses the carpus in a special compartment of the posterior annular ligament; and its distal attachment is to the dorsal surface of the proximal end of the fifth metacarpal bone. 10. Anconeus Muscle.—This triangular muscle has its prox- imal attachment by a special tendon to the outer condyle of the humerus, at a point internally to the compound extensor attachment; it expands and passes to its distal attachment at the outer side of the olecranon process of, and the proximal end of the shaft of, the ulna. Its proximal border is parallel with the outer portion of the distal end of the triceps muscle ; its outer border is parallel with the proximal portion of the extensor carpi ulnaris muscle. Dissection.—Turn the forearm and hand, so that its outer side is upper- most, and let the hand hang semi-pronated. Display the muscles, tendons and artery along the outer side of the forearm, hand and first digit. 11. Supinator Longus Muscle, Plates 168. and 165 to 169, inclusive.—This muscle was described (page 211) and illustrated (Plates 121 and 125) as it appears at the anterior of the fore-