HEAD AND NECK. 356 its fellow of the opposite side at a median-line raphe, inferiorly to the inferior maxillary bone ; it passes superiorly, anteriorly to the inferior maxillary bone, to the lateral area of the face (page 328 ; Fig. 1, Plate 182). Dissection.— Eeverse the head and neck on the block, and dissect the left side of the neck to the stage of the dissection in Plate 191; restore the head to its position in Plate 191. Section (Plate 191) the right platysnia myoides mus- cle, and reflect it inferiorly. Be careful not to cut away the external jugular vein and its branches. Remove the anterior layer of the sheath (formed by the splitting of the deep cervical fascia) of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle ; take care to dissect out, and leave in situ (Plate 192), the portions of the internal jugular vein, the occipitalis minor, auricularis magnus, superficial cervical, and sternal branches of the cervical plexus of nerves, anteriorly to the muscle. 3. Sterno-cleid© mastoid Muscle, Plates 189, 192, and 193. —This muscle is located in the anterolateral area of the neck. It is attached: superiorly, to the mastoid portion of the tem- poral bone (Plate 189); inferiorly, by a sternal, tendinous, por- tion, to the exterior surface of the superior part of the sternum, and by a cleido, muscular, portion to the superior border of part of the internal third or half of the clavicle. Dissection.—Trace (Plate 192) the external jugular vein to its superior and inferior ends. Find (Plate 192), running inferiorly and externally, the follow- ing branches of the cervical plexus : the nerve to the trapezius muscle, the clavicular, and the acromial nerves. Dissect out (Plate 192) the external and inferior portion of the spinal accessory nerve. 4. External Jugular Yein, Plates 192 and 193.-This vein extends, from the internal surface of the parotid gland, infe- riorly and externally, across the anterolateral area of the neck —anteriorly to the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle—to its point of emptying into the subclavian vein, posteriorly to the middle third of the clavicle. It has a submaxillary, and an inferior, anastomosing branch: the former with the facial vein; the latter with the anterior jugular vein. 5. Branches of tne Cervical Plexus of Nerves—From the posterior border, and internal surface, of the sterno-cleido- mastoid muscle, superiorly to the external jugular vein, these nerves emerge, in the following order: the sternal winds, in- feriorly and internally, anteriorly to the external jugular vein