VERTEBRAL COLUMN AND ITS LIGAMENTS. 285 pear from the intervertebral foramina between the pedicles of the articulated dorsal vertebrae ; they are continued, as the intercostal nerves, parallel with the inferior borders of the ribs, as before described (pages 247 and 248) and illustrated (Plate 139, and Fig. 1, Plate 140). Dissection.—Disarticulate the superior and inferior half vertebrae, and the inferior rib of the dorsal segment of vertebral column and articulated ribs (Fig. 2, Plate 156). Disarticulate and turn off the middle rib of the same piece, so as to display the interiors of the costo-vertebral and costo-transverse articula- tions of a vertebra and a rib (Fig. 3, Plate 156). 71. Interior of the Co§to-ver tebral Articulation, Fig. 3, Plate 156.—The interior of this articulation presents the follow- ing elements: two contiguous half facets of two vertebrae, separated by the border of an intervertebral disc ; the articular face of the head of a rib divided by a ridge into two half facets ; and an interarticular ligament (page 284). The articulations of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs are exceptions to the above : in the articulation of a single facet on the lateral sur- faces of the bodies of the vertebrae, with undivided articular facets on the heads of the ribs. 72: Interior of the Costo-transverse Articulation.—For the pairs of ribs first to tenth, inclusive, the elements present- ing of the interior of these articulations are: the transverse process of the dorsal vertebra, with its articular facet; the neck and tubercle of the rib, with the articular facet on the latter ; the interior surfaces of the superior, middle, and posterior costo- transverse ligaments (page 278; Fig. 2, Plate 155) ; and the capsular ligament, which capsulates the opposed facets of the transverse process of the vertebra and the tubercle of the rib. Dissection.—Clear the surfaces of the ligaments of the sacro-vertebral and sacro-coccygeal articulations ; also the direct and indirect ligaments of the sacro-iliac articulation. 73. Sacro-verteoral Articulation, Plates 42 and 147.—The body of the fifth lumbar vertebra articulates with the base of the sacrum, being bound by an intervertebral disc, and the con- tinuance of the anterior and posterior common ligaments of the vertebral bodies ; the inferior lumbar and the sacral articular