INTERIOR OF THE THORACIC CAVITY. 247 33. Thoracic Aorta and its Branches, Plate 139, and Fig. 1, Plate 140.—The thoracic aorta has an inferior course, par- allel with, and in a plane posteriorly to, the oesophagus, to where it passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, to be continued as the abdominal aorta. Its branches are the oesophageal, to the oesophagus, and the right and left nine or ten intercostal arteries, which are continued, anteriorly, infe- riorly to the nine or ten inferior pairs of ribs. 34. Right Intercostal IVerves, Arteries, and Veins.—In each intercostal space, adjacent to the vertebral column, will be found an intercostal nerve, an intercostal artery, and an inter- costal vein ; all three lie upon the interior surface of the pos- terointernal portion of an external intercostal muscle, and are continued anteriorly, between the external and internal inter- costal muscle planes of an intercostal space, along the inferior border of the superior rib-boundary of the space. The rela- tions of the three in the intercostal space are : the nerve in- feriorly, the vein superiorly, and the artery between the two. The intercostal nerves are the anterior divisions of the dor- sal spinal nerves, each having two communicating branches from the dorsal sympathetic ganglion superiorly to it. The intercostal arteries are nine or ten branches from the thoracic aorta, the right being longer than the left. The intercostal veins are, on the right side, tributary to the azygos major vein and the right superior intercostal vein. Dissection.—Expose, by dissecting away the posterior intercostal aponeu- rosis and the posterior portion of an internal intercostal muscle of one or more intercostal spaces, the relations of the external and internal intercostal muscles at the postero-internal or vertebral end of an intercostal space. 35. Relations of the External and Internal Intercostal Muscles, at the Vertebral End of an Intercostal Space.— The relations of the posterior portions of these muscle planes are as follows : an external intercostal muscle forms the ex- terior plane of the postero-internal portion of an intercostal space, commencing, internally, opposite the tubercles of the adjacent ribs ; an internal intercostal muscle forms the interior plane of the same portion of an intercostal space, commencing at about the angles of the adjacent ribs. Internally to the pos- terior limit of an internal intercostal muscle, the anterior sur-