TRUNK. 72 rior border of the eleventh rib, while the left reaches its supe- rior border. Its external border is convex and projects beyond the external border of the quadratus lumborum muscle; its inferior convex end inclines a little, externally—higher upon the left than upon the right side ; its internal and thickest border presents an inferior and a superior convexity, divided by a concavity—the hilus of the organ—where the arteries and nerves enter, and the veins, lymphatic vessels and the ureter leave the organ ; its anterior surface is smooth and convex. Dissection.—Trace the ureters from the kidneys, interiorly, into the pelvis. 63. Ureters.—These are the ducts of the kidneys. A ureter is about fifteen inches long; it leaves the hilus of a kidney, posterior to the plane of the artery ; it continues, interiorly and internally, upon the anterior surface of the quadratus lum- borum, the psoas magnus and the psoas parvus muscles, pos- terior to the spermatic or the ovarian vessels ; it reaches the ex- ternal iliac artery, passing across its anterior surface, near the bifurcation of the common iliac, and enters the pelvic cavity upon the interior of its lateral wall. 64. Spermatic (of the Male) and Ovarian (of the Female) Arteries.—These arteries spring as a pair, in the respective sexes, one from either side of the aorta, inferior to the origins of the renal branches. A spermatic artery (vena comes) passes, interiorly and externally, upon the psoas magnus and parvus muscles to the groin, where it leaves the abdominal cavity by the iliac or internal abdominal ring. An ovarian artery (vena comes) passes inferiorly to the iliac fossa; it enters the pelvic cavity, crossing the external iliac artery, to reach the interior of its lateral wall, between the anterior and posterior layers of peritoneum, which form a broad ligament of the uterus. 65. Spermatic and Ovarian Veins—The right and left veins differ: the right spermatic and ovarian empty, at an acute angle, into the vena cava inferior ; the left can be traced to where it enters, at a right angle, into the left renal vein. 66. Inferior Mesenteric Artery.—This artery (vena comes), a single branch, passes to the left of the vertebral column, and distributes as before described (page 62).