TKUNK. 80 the median line ; the latter has minute vessels—lymphatics—converging to it. Note a number of lymphatic glands contiguous to the receptaculum chyli; trace some of the lymphatic vessels from the glands to the receptaculum chyli. 30. Receptaculum Chyli, Plate 41.—This, the commence- ment of the left lymphatic or thoracic duct of the lymphatic system, lies upon the anterior surface of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, posterior to the abdominal aorta ; it is about the size of a small quill, and receives lymphatic vessels from the surrounding lymphatic glands; it continues, superiorly, upon the first lumbar vertebra, and passes into the thorax through the aortic opening of the diaphragm. Dissection.—Eemove the peritoneum from the abdominal surface of the diaphragm ; trace, in so doing, the ramifications of the phrenic arteries (Plate 41), and note the points of perforation of the phrenic nerves and their distri- bution. Determine the aortic, the caval and the oesophageal openings in the diaphragm ; clean the crura and the ligamenta arcuata externa and interna portions of the diaphragm (Plate 43). 31. Phrenic Arteries, Plates 38 and 41.—These branches from the abdominal aorta (page 70), distribute, right and left, to the inferior surface of the diaphragm. Each artery gives a branch to the suprarenal capsule of its side. 32. Phrenic Nerves.—These nerves perforate the dia- phragm from the thorax, to distribute to the inferior surface of the muscle. 33. Cartilage Areas of the Abdominal Interior, Fig. 2, Plate 21.—The cartilage surfaces presenting areas for the at- tachments of the diaphragm are: the interior surfaces of the ensiform cartilage of the sternum and of the cartilages of the six inferior ribs. 34. Bone Areas of the Abdominal and Pelvic Interiors, Plate 42.— The twelfth dorsal vertebra, the twelfth rib, the lum- bar vertebra and the ilial portion of the os innominatum afford attachments to muscles, that contribute to the superior and postero-lateral walls of the abdominal cavity. 35. Diaphragm, Fig. 2, Plate 21, and Plates 38, 41, 42, 43, and 44.—This muscle forms the septum between the abdominal and thoracic cavities. The portions of the muscle are : a ten-