T£UXK. 62 which it is made susceptible of great mobility and disten- tion. The rectum continues the large intestine into the pelvic cavity. 23. Inferior Mesenteric Artery, Plate 35.—This artery (vena comes), a branch of the abdominal aorta, lies to the left of the vertebral column exterior to the peritoneum. Its colica sinistra branch distributes to the descending portion of the colon, bi- furcating into an ascending and a descending branch: the ascending anastomoses with the left branch of the colica me- dia (page 60); the descending anastomoses with the sigmoid branch. The sigmoid branch supplies the sigmoid flexure of the colon ; its distribution is similar to that of the rami in- testini tenues (see page 60, and Plate 34). The superior hemor- rhoidal is the terminal portion of the trunk ; it distributes to the superior part of the rectum, passing into the pelvic cavity upon the gut, between the layers of the meso-rectum of the pelvic portion of the greater peritoneum. Dissection.—Dissect off the posterior layer of the lesser peritoneum from the anterior surface of the pancreas, trimming it away at the superior edge of the oblique portion of the duodenum ; by this the head of the pancreas will be exposed in the curve of the duodenum. Hook up the left lobe of the liver against the costal cartilages and sternum ; open the anterior layer of the gas- tro-hepatic omentum, and cut it away from the lesser curvature of the stomach, and from the opposite posterior inferior surface of the liver. Determine the parts, contained between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum. 24. Cceliac Axis, Plates 85 and 36.—This arterial axis pre- sents superior to the lesser curvature of the stomach; where it trifurcates into: the gastric or coronary, which passes to the left and superiorly; the splenic, which is directed to the left and inferiorly ; the hepatic, which runs to the right. 25. Gastric or Coronary Artery.—This artery (vena comes) -distributes to the stomach. Reaching the left of the lesser curvature of that organ, it bifurcates : the left branch dis- tributes to the oesophageal extremity of the stomach, anastom- osing with the oesophageal arteries ; the right curves along the lesser curvature of the stomach, to anastomose with the pyloric branch of the hepatic. 26. Splenic Artery.—This artery (vena comes) disappears posterior to the stomach in the direction of the organs it sup- plies.