TRUNK. 272 24. Musculus Accessorius.—This muscle is the first sup- plementary muscle of the sacro-lumbalis division of the erector spinas muscle. It lies upon the exterior of the ribs and the external intercostal muscles, having the following attachments : inferiorly, to the six inferior ribs (their angles), internally to the attachments of the sacro-lumbalis ; superiorly, to the six supe- rior ribs (their angles). 25. Cervicalis Ascendens Muscle.—This is the second sup- plementary muscle of the sacro-lumbalis division of the erector spinas muscle. It is attached : inferiorly, to the six superior ribs (their angles), internally to the superior attachments of the musculus accessorius ; superiorly, to the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of several inferior cervical vertebrae. Dissection.—Cut away the musculus accessorius and the cervicalis ascen- dens muscles, from their inferior and superior attachments. Display the transversalis cervicis, trachelo-mastoid, complexus, and spinalis dorsi muscles. 26. Tran§versalis Cervicis Muscle.—This muscle is the pri- mary, lateral, supplementary muscle of the longissimus dorsi division of the erector spinas muscle. It is attached : inferi- orly, to the transverse processes of several superior dorsal verte- bras ; superiorly, to the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the middle cervical vertebras. 27. Traclielo-Mastoid Muscle.—This muscle is the second- ! ary, lateral, supplementary muscle of the longissimus dorsi division of the erector spinas muscle. It is attached : inferiorly, to the transverse processes of several superior dorsal vertebrae and to the articular processes of some of the inferior cervical vertebras ; superiorly, to the posterior surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. 28. Complexus Muscle, Plates 147, 149, 150, and 151.—This is the longitudinal supplementary muscle of the longissimus dorsi division of the erector spinas muscle. It is attached : inferiorly, to the transverse processes of the superior dorsal vertebras, and the articular processes of some of the inferior cervical vertebras ; superiorly, to the exterior of the occipital bone, between its superior and inferior curved lines. Its in- ternal portion is intersected by a fibrous portion (sometimes