338 HEAD AND NECK. are: the frontal (its horizontal portion) ; the ethmoid (its os- planum); the sphenoid (parts of its great and small wings); the malar ; the superior maxillary ; the palate (its orbital pro- cess) ; and the lachrymal. Of these the frontal, sphenoid, and superior maxillary afford attachments to muscles. The superior wall of the orbit, the horizontal portion of the frontal bone and the small wing of the sphenoid bone—together with the cribriform plate (one-half) of the ethmoid bone, form an anterior fossa (one side) of the interior of base of the cranium (page 324, Plate 180). Dissection.—Detach the periosteum of the superior border of the orbital cavity; introduce the handle of a scalpel between the periosteum and the bone of the superior wall of the orbit, and peel the former from the latter. Saw along the section lines (Fig. 2, Plate 184), through the supra-orbital portion of the frontal bone ; then make, with the chisel and mallet a V-shaped cut through the roof of the orbit (Plate 180), and remove it with the supra- orbital portion of the frontal bone. Introduce the end of a blowpipe into the eveball and innate it. Cut open, the superior periosteal lining of the orbit, and expose by removing the adipose tissue surrounding them, portions of the following parts (Plate 185, right orbit) : the frontal nerve and its branches; the trochlear nerve; the supra-orbital artery; the lachrymal artery and nerve ; the lachrymal gland ; the legator palpebral superioris, obliquus superior and a portion of the rectus superior muscles. 1. Frontal Kerve, Plate 185 (right orbit).—This nerve has an anterior course through the orbit, at first superiorly to, and then internally to, the levator palpebral superioris muscle. It bifurcates into the supra-orbital and supratrochlear nerves, which continue, anteriorly, into the superficial region of the face to reach the frontal area of the scalp, as described (page 337) and illustrated (Plate 184). 2. Trochlear Merve — This nerve perforates the dura mater (page 325 ; Plate 180), runs externally to the cavernous sinus, and enters the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure. Its orbital por- tion has an anterior and internal course, internally to the pos- terior part of the frontal nerve, to the point where it enters the posterior half of the postero-anterior portion of the obliquus superior muscle. 3. Supraorbital Artery.—This artery (vena comes), a branch of the ophthalmic, has an anterior course, parallel with,