ABDOMINAL VISCERA 11ST SITU. 69 50. Peritoneum of the Female Pelvis.—As in the male, the peritoneum reaches the fundus of the bladder from the interior of the anterior parietes of the abdomen, guided thereto by the obliterated urachus (Plate 29). From the fundus of the organ it passes to its posterior surface, from which it is reflected to the body of the uterus. This reflection determines the vesico-uterine cul-de-sac of the peritoneum. The perito- neum upon the anterior surface of the uterus spreads laterally therefrom—forming the anterior layer of the broad ligament— to the interior of the lateral wall of the pelvis. Folding over the fundus of the uterus it covers its posterior surface and continues inferiorly upon the posterior surface of the inferior wall of the vagina, from which it is reflected to the anterior surface of the superior wall of the rectum, forming the recto- vaginal or Douglas' cul-de-sac of the peritoneum (Female Perineum, page 41). From the postero-inferior surface of the uterus and vagina the peritoneum spreads laterally, as the posterior layer of the broad ligament of the uterus, to the in- terior of the lateral walls of the pelvis ; from this posterior layer of the broad ligament the right and left ovaries swing free. Continuing upon the rectum, the peritoneum invests it as in the male (page 67). 51. Female Internal Genitalia.—These are the uterus, the Fallopian tubes, the round ligaments—included between the two layers of the right and left broad ligaments—and the ovaries—hanging from the posterior surfaces of the broad ligaments. They are all lodged in the pelvis between the blad- der, anteriorly, and the rectum, posteriorly. The uterus pro- jects superiorly, supported upon the vagina ; the Fallopian tubes, the right and the left, curl posteriorly and internally, posterior to the uterus, enclosing the right and the left ovary, respectively ; from out of the pelvic cavity the right and the left round ligaments of the uterus rise over the brim of the pelvis, anterior to the uterus, to reach the right and left iliac or internal abdominal rings (Abdominal Parietes, page 53). 52. Female Bladder.—In the female the bladder is broader than in the male; in other respects the organs are alike (page 68). The special relation of the organ in the female is to the uterus posteriorly ; at the anterior surface of the supra-