164 LOWER EXTREMITY. Plate 60), wind over the outer border of the thigh. Branches of the small sciatic nerve perforate the fascia, in the outer and inner halves of the posterior region of the thigh ; branches of the latter nerve also wind over the inferior border of the glu- teus maximus muscle, to ramify superiorly. Terminal branches of the twelfth dorsal, the ilio-hypogastric and the lumbar spinal nerves enter the gluteal region at its superior limit ; posterior branches of the sacral spinal nerves appear near the median line. 3. Fascia Lata.—The posterior portion of the fascia lata forms the fascial plane of the gluteal region and the posterior region of the thigh ; its anterior portion, with which the pos- terior is continuous, was before described (page 109) and illus- trated (Plate 60). Dissection.—Abduct the limb, so as to bring the inner side of the leg against the border of the table. Incise and dissect off the fascia lata of the gluteal region, parallel with the fibres of the gluteus maximus muscle, thereby exposing the latter. 4. Gluteus Maximus Muscle, Plates 91, 93, and 94.—This is an oblong muscle, which lies obliquely across the gluteal region, constituting the principal mass of the buttock. Inferior to its inferior border is the gluteal fold, which forms the proximal limit of the posterior region of the thigh. The muscle is in- cluded between two layers of the fascia lata: at its superior border the fascia splits to include the muscle, and unites again into a single layer at its inferior limit; upon the trochanter major (Plate 94) the muscle is attached to the fascia. Dissection.-Make an incision through the fascia lata of the posterior surface of the thigh, corresponding to the line of skin incision 3, of Figure 8 (page 163) ; reflect lateral flaps from the subjacent muscles. Be careful to preserve the small sciatic nerve. 5. Small Seiatie Nerve, Plates 92 and 94.-This nerve emerges into the posterior region of the thigh, at the inferior border, and from the anterior surface, of the gluteus maximus muscle; it takes a distal course between the fascia lata and the surface of the biceps muscle (long head), giving off lateral branches, described above, which perforate the fascia, to reach the subcutaneous tissue. Its branches continue into the sub-