SOFT AND HARD PALATE. 383 left, together with the fusion of the inferior fibres of the latter muscles with the tongue, determine the mouth and pharynx as a continuous muscular ^—bucco-pharyngeal cavity. The buccal portion is completed, anteriorly, by the orbicularis oris muscle, and, interiorly, by the tongue ; the pharyngeal portion is completed by the right and left, middle and inferior con- strictor muscles, and the fibrous coat of the pharynx. Dissection.—Turn the half head in the pharyngeal frame, presenting its posterior wall. Out open (Plate 202) the pharynx, along its posterior median- line raphe, from the oesophagus to the cranium ; loop back, with threads tied to the pharyngeal frame, its postero-lateral walls ; take out the oakum from its interior and expose its mucous-membrane lined anterolateral walls. Rec- ognize the parts forming its incomplete anterior wall; also, its anterior, lateral, and inferior openings. 7. Walls and Openings of the Pharynx, Plate 202.—The postero-lateral walls, right and left, of the pharynx present five coats as follows: mucous membrane lining (Plate 202); a submucous plane containing the palato-pharyngeus muscle (Plate 203) ; a fibrous coat, before described (page 382) and illustrated (Plate 200) ; a muscular layer, consisting of the three constrictor, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, right and left (Plates 200, 201, and 203) ; and a fascial coat, exteriorly to the muscular. Its anterior wall is incomplete, being formed by the postero-superior surface of the soft palate, the dorsum of the base of the tongue, and the posterior surface of the larynx. Its incomplete portions are: superi- orly to the soft palate, where the posterior nares open into the right and left nasal cavities ; and between the soft pal- ate and dorsum of the tongue, where the posterior buccal orifice is located, and partially shut off from the pharynx by the pillars and uvula of the soft palate. The openings into the pharynx are seven in number : the right and left posterior narium, and the posterior buccal orifice, anteriorly ; the orifices of the right and left Eustachian tubes, laterally ; the superior openings of the larynx and oesophagus, inferiorly. SOFT AND HABD PALATE. Dissection.—The half head and appended organs should be swung in the pharyngeal frame, with the pharynx opened along the median line of its pos- terior wall, as in Plate 202.