218 UPPER EXTREMITY. 45. Sheathed Tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis Mus- cle, Plate 127.—This is lodged to the inner side of the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. Dissection.—Dissect away the palmaris brevis muscle and the minim emi- nence portion of the palmar fascia (Plate 127), exposing the muscles, nerves, and vessels at the palmar surface of the eminence. 40. Ahdnctor Minimi IMgiti Muscle, Plates 122, 127, and 129.—This muscle is located at the minim border of the palm : it extends from its proximal attachment to the pisiform bone, to its distal attachment to the inner side of the base of the phalanx of the fifth digit. 47. Ulnar Nerve, Plate 127.—At the distal end of the fore- arm portion of this nerve, where it approaches the outer side of the pisiform bone, it bifurcates into the deep and the super- ficial palmar nerves. The deep palmar nerve is continued along the outer side of the pisiform bone, giving off two mus- cle branches from its inner side. These branches, with the deep palmar nerve, pass to a deep plane of the palm, by an interval between the proximal ends of the abductor and the flexor brevis minimi digiti muscles. The superficial palmar nerve is con- tinued to the palmar surface of the proximal end of the flexor brevis minimi digiti muscle, where it bifurcates into the fifth and the sixth digital nerves. The fifth digital nerve has a distal course, passing to the dorsal surface of the sixth digital artery, and entering the palmar fossa region of the palm ; it runs parallel with, and to the inner side of, the commencement of the superficial palmar arch. The sixth digital nerve has a distal course, upon the palmar surface of the flexor brevis minimi digiti muscle, and the sixth digital artery. 48. Ulnar Artery.—This artery (vense comites) enters the palm to the outer side of the ulnar nerve. At the carpal por- tion of the minim eminence, it is lodged at the inner side of the palmar surface of the anterior annular ligament of the carpus. It gives off the deep palmar artery, which joins the deep pal- mar nerve, described above, on its way to a deep plane of the palm. The trunk of the artery (palmar arch) curves to the outer side, upon the palmar surface of the proximal end of the flexor brevis minimi digiti muscle, and enters the palmar fossa \ be- fore leaving the minim eminence it gives off the sixth digital