HEAD AND NECK. 322 matic arch, to its inferior attachment, to the coronoid process of the inferior maxillary bone (Fig. 2, Plate 184). Note the adipose tissue between the muscle and the zygomatic arch. Dissection.—Cut away the temporal muscle, as in Fig. 2, Plate 178, and display the deep temporal vessels and nerves. 21. Anterior and Posterior Deep Temporal Arteries, Fig. 2, Plate 178.—These arteries (vena3 comites), branches of the internal maxillary artery (Plate 187), are projected, superiorly, between the temporal muscle and the squamous portion of the temporal bone, to supply the temporal muscle. 22. Anterior and Posterior I>eep Temporal Nerves.—These two (sometimes three, a middle one) nerves, branches from the trifacial nerve (Plate 187), have a superior course, to supply the temporal muscle. VEKTEX POBTION OF THE MEMBEANES OF THE BKAIN. Dissection.—Saw the cranial bones at both sides of the skull, as indicated by the antero-posterior section-line across Fig. 2, Plate 178. In sawing be care- ful not to perforate and injure the contents of the cranium (nothing is gained by pressure of the saw, but the work is expedited by the lightness with which the saw is drawn along its track). The thickest points are at the antero- lateral and postero-lateral angles of the cranium ; complete the bone section with the chisel and mallet; and remove the calvarium by dragging upon it, antero-posteriorly, with the hook. Eecognize the dura mater ; the meningeal arteries exteriorly to it; and the prominences of the Pacchionian bodies. 23. Dura Mater, Plates 179 and 180.—Lining the interior of the cranium is this the exterior of three membranes of invest- ment of the brain. It is the thickest of the three ; during foetal and infantile life it is an interior periosteum (from which the bones derive nourishment) of the cranial bones ; its re- duplications— the falx cerebri, the tentorium cerebelli, and the falx cerebelli—determine intracranial compartments for the lodgement of the several parts of the brain ; its splittings form the intracranial sinuses or blood-canals. 24. Meningeal Arteries.—Exteriorly to the dura mater, be- tween it and the lateral portion of the cranial bones, these ar- teries are projected, superiorly, toward the vertex. 25. Pacchionian Bodies, Plate 179.—These are villi from the exterior of the arachnoid or middle membrane of the