HEAD AND NECK. 392 10. Palato-pharyngeus and Palato-glossus Muscles; and the Tonsil.—The two muscles diverge, interiorly, from the soft palate (page 387), and.have the tonsil of the side lodged be- tween them. Dissection.—Dissect the mucous membrane from the left half of the hard palate (Fig. 2, Plate 205), and display the buccal portions of the descending- palatine artery and anterior palatine nerve. 11. Descending Palatine Artery.—The buccal portion cf this artery (venae comites) appears at the buccal orifice of the posterior palatine canal. It runs anteriorly, in the angle formed by the alveolar process with the palatine process of the superior maxillary bone, supplying the mucous membrane of the hard palate and the contiguous gum ; it anastomoses with the terminal branch of the naso-palatine artery, which enters the buccal cavity by the buccal orifice of the anterior palatine canal. 12. Anterior Palatine tferve.—This nerve, branch from the spheno-palatine ganglion (page 407 ; Fig. 1, Plate 210), enters the buccal cavity, at the orifice of the posterior palatine canal, with the last-described artery. It accompanies the latter artery along the roof of the buccal cavity, distributing branches to the mucous membrane of the hard palate and the contigu- ous gum. The posterior palatine nerve, branch of the spheno- palatine ganglion, passes, by the accessory palatine canal (Plate 199) in the palate bone, to the soft palate. The external palatine nerve (when present), also a branch of the same gan- glion, passes, by a special canal in the palate bone, to the soft palate. Bones of the Hard Palate.—The osseous part of the hard palate is formed by the palatine processes of the right and left superior maxillary bones, and the horizontal plates of the right and left palate bones ; their area is bordered by the alve- olar processes of the, right and left, superior maxillary bones. These bone surfaces are covered by periosteum, a dense sub- mucous tissue, and mucous membrane. The hamular processes of the, right and left, internal plates of the pterygoid pro- cesses of the sphenoid bone present posteriorly to, and inde- pendently of, the tuberosities of the superior maxillary bones.