269 EEGION OF THE BACK. 15. Levator Anguli Scapulae Muscle.—This muscle occu- pies the same plane as the two last-described muscles ; it has a more oblique course, inferiorly. It is attached : internally and superiorly, to the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the three or four superior cervical vertebrae ; ex- ternally and inferiorly, to the posterior lip of the internal bor- der of the supraspinous portion of the scapula. 16. Posterior Scapular Artery.—This artery appears, pos- teriorly, in the space between the levator anguli scapulae and the rhomboideus minor muscles. It is continued internally to, and parallel with, the internal border of the scapula. It has an inferior course anteriorly to the scapular ends of the rhomboideus minor and major muscles. It distributes branches to the rhomboidei, and the serratus magnus muscles. Dissection.—Clear the surfaces of the serratus posticus inferior muscle, and of the postero-internal portions of the obliquus externus and the obliquus internus muscles, 17. Serratus Posticus Inferior Muscle, Plates 149 and 151. —This, one of the second-plane muscles of the back, is located upon the exterior of the inferior portion of the thoracic parie- tes. It is attached : internally, to the spinous processes and supraspinous ligaments of the two inferior dorsal and the two or three superior lumbar vertebrae, and to the fascia of the erec- tor spinae muscle at its inferior dorsal and superior lumbar portions ; externally, to the exterior surface of the four in- ferior ribs. IS. Obliquus Externus and Obliquus Internus Muscles, Plate 149.—The postero-internal portions of these muscles ap- pear, in their respective exterior and interior relations, between the inferior ribs and the crest of the ilium (os innominatum). They contribute to the posterior parietes of the abdomen. Dissection.—Cut the rhomboideus major, the rhomboideus minor, also the levator anguli scapulae muscles from their vertebral attachments. Reflect the three muscles, externally, upon the scapula. Clear the surface of the serra- tus posticus superior muscle. 19. Serratus Posticus Superior Muscle, Plate 149 ; Fig. 1, Plate 150 and Plate 151.—This muscle, of the third plane, is at- tached : internally, to the spinous processes of the seventh cer-