SCALP. 319 5. Supra-orbital Artery.—This small artery emerges from the orbital cavity, at the supra-orbital notch or foramen, into the plane interiorly to the occipito-frontalis muscle; its branches perforate the muscle, to anastomose with the frontal and the anterior branch of the superficial temporal artery. 6. Supra-orbital Nerve.—This nerve leaves the orbit with, and lies in the same plane as, the last-described artery. Its branches (usually two) perforate the muscle exteriorly to them, and continue into the subcutaneous plane of the scalp. Dissection.—Trace the superficial temporal artery and vein in the subcuta- neous plane of the lateral area of the scalp, exteriorly to the superficial tem- poral fascia. 7. Superficial Temporal Artery.—This artery is projected as a single trunk, superiorly, from a point anteriorly to the ear into the subcutaneous plane of the lateral area of the scalp. The trunk bifurcates, at a variable point, into an anterior and a posterior branch ; the anterior is projected to the frontal region (page 318) ; the posterior, the larger of the two, has a superior and posterior course in the posterior half of the lat- eral area of the scalp—its branches anastomose with the pos- terior auricular and occipital arteries. 8. Superficial Temporal Vein.—The anterior and posterior temporal veins (one for each artery; converge to the anterior of the ear, where they form the superficial temporal vein, which passes into the neck. Dissection.—Cut out, from the interior of the superficial temporal fascia, the temporal branches of the facial nerve. Find the auriculo-temporal nerve and trace it superiorly, to the ramification of its terminal branch in the subcu- taneous plane of the scalp. 9. Temporal Branches of the Facial Nerve. — These nerves run, superiorly, interiorly to the superficial temporal fascia. They supply : by the posterior branch, the attraheris and attollens aurem muscles ; by the anterior branch, the frontal portion of the occipito-frontalis muscle, the superior part of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, and the corrugator supercilii muscle.