45 ABDOMINAL PAEIETES. anastomoses with the deep dorsalis penis vein, and continues to the superior external pudic vein. The ilio-hypogastric nerve distributes dorsal branches to the organ. Dissection.—Section the superficial dorsalis penis vessels and nerves at the root of the penis, and dissect them off of the dartos sheath. 5. Dartos Sheath of the Penis.—This sheath is in contin- uity with the superficial and deep layers of the inguinal sub- cutaneous tissue; it is also continuous with the dartos tunic of the scrotum. It differs from the inguinal subcutaneous tissue planes, in being free of fat and in having involuntary muscular fibres in its structure. It is separated by loose are- olar tissue from the subjacent elastic tissue sheath of the organ, thus allowing of its sliding upon the latter. Dissection.—Expose the suspensory ligament of the penis; make a median- line incision on the dorsum of the penis, through the dartos sheath, and reflect a flap externally ; follow the suspensory ligament to the penis. 6. Suspensory Ligament and Sheath of the Penis.—This so-called ligament, composed of elastic tissue, is attached to the median line of the pubes. It passes, inferiorly, upon the body of the penis, to which it contributes an elastic sheath, which is thickest around the root of the organ. Dissection.—Make a median-line incision on the dorsum of the penis, through the elastic sheath, from the glans to the base of the organ ; dissect off the sheath, so as to expose the deep dorsalis penis vessels and nerves, and show their relations to the openings at the attached base of the ligament. 7. Deep Dorsalis Penis Artery.—The artery, of a side, has been described in a part of its course (see Male Perineum, page 20). In the dissection of the male perineum it was left, passing, anteriorly, between the exterior surface of the body of the os pubis and the crus of a corpus cavernosum (Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 8). It enters upon the dorsum of the penis, through the attached base of the suspensory ligament, by an. opening at the side of the median line ; thence it runs, longitudinally for- ward, upon the dorsum of the organ, distributing branches to the corpus cavernosum and the glans. 8. Deep Dorsalis Penis •Verve (see Male Perineum, page 2). —This nerve accompanies the last-described artery to the sus- pensory ligament; it enters uptm the dorsum of the penis by