ABDOMINAL AND PELVIC INTERIORS. 77 of the thorax. They will also be found to have branches of communication with the contiguous anterior branches of the spinal nerves (lumbar). Their distributing branches contribute to the aortic and superior hypogastric plexuses. 18. Lumbar Arteries.—These are four pairs of arteries from the posterior surface of the abdominal aorta ; they pass, later- ally, over the sides of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae into the posterior parietes of the abdominal cavity. Their veins commence, on either side, the azygos veins, major right and minor left. Dissection.—Eemove fascia and adventitious tissue from the surfaces of the psoas magnus, psoas parvus, quadratus lumborum, posterior portions of the transversalis abdominis, and the iliacus internus muscles, preserving the nerves ramifying upon the interior of the same (Plate 41). 19. Twelfth Dorsal Intercostal Merve, Plates 33 and 41.— A portion of this nerve runs inferior to the twelfth rib, upon the interior surface of the transversalis abdominis muscle. Dissection.—Section, on one side, the psoas magnus and parvus muscles (Plate 44) ; reflect the portions of the muscles, superiorly and inferiorly, dis- secting out from the muscles the nerves of the lumbar plexus; allow the latter to remain in situ (Plate 41). 20. Lumbar Plexus.—This plexus is formed by the ante- rior branches of the four superior lumbar nerves. It is lodged in the substance of the psoas magnus muscle and upon the interior of the quadratus lumborum and the iliacus internus muscles. 21. Ilio-Hypogastrie and Ilio-Inguinal Serves, Plates 33, 38, and 41.—These nerves originate from the first lumbar nerve ; they cross the anterior surface of the quadratus lumborum muscle, continuing upon the interior of the transversalis ab- dominis muscle, superior to and parallel with the crest of the ilium ; they perforate the latter muscle, and pass, as before described, into the planes of the antero-lateral areas of the abdominal parietes (page 49, and Plates 22, 25, 26, and 27). 22. External Cutaneous tferve, Plates 38, 39, 40, and 41.— This nerve, branch of the second lumbar, passes, inferiorly, to the interior of the posterior extremity of the crest of the ilium ;