SEVENTH DISSECTION. MALE PELVIC VISCERA OUT OF THE BODY. Dissection.—In the dissection of the male perineum, the mutual relations of the base of the bladder, the prostate, the vesiculse seminales, the vasa defer- entia, and the rectum were recognized (pages 26 and 27) and illustrated (Plate 12) in situ. At present the viscera, as taken from the pelvis en masse (page 73), should be dissected, after which the separate organs will claim special atten- tion. The rectum and bladder may be inflated, or better, the rectum may be stuffed with oakum from its superior end ; the bladder, opened by a transverse incision at the superior portion of its anterior wall, may also be inflated or filled with oakum. Clean the exterior of the rectum and bladder of shreds of connective tissue ; preserve all arteries and nerves hanging from the organs. 1. Rectum, Bladder, etc.—The rectum as distended pre- sents the double curvature, which determines its three portions; in the concavity of its second portion, the bladder, vesiculse seminales, and prostate are lodged. 2. Peritoneal Investment of Bladder, Plates 12, 31, and Fig. 1, Plate 37.—The fundus, the two lateral, and the posterior surfaces of this organ are invested by peritoneum. Posteriorly, the peritoneum descends to the line of the posterior extremi- ties of the vesiculse seminales, where it is reflected to the rec- tum, as the recto-vesical cul-de-sac (pages 27 and 67). 3. Peritoneal 5nre§tment of Rectum, Plate 31, and Fig. 1, Plate 37.—The anterior and the right lateral surfaces of the first portion of the rectum, and the anterior and right lateral surfaces of the superior part of the second portion are covered by peritoneum. Dissection.—Cut the peritoneal reflection between the bladder and rectum, and dissect the rectum from the bladder, etc. Cut the vasa def erentia at about four inches from the prostate, thus detaching the testes. The rectum and testes may be returned to the preservative fluid. Cut the ureters about two inches from their vesical ends. Open the bladder and pin it and the penis to a dissect-