SUPERFICIAL REGION OF THE FACE. 331 12. Facial \erve, Plate 183.—This nerve emerges into the superficial region of the face, from between the parotid gland and the neck of the condyloid process of the inferior maxillary bone, where it winds anteriorly, externally to the superficial temporal artery—to reach this point the nerve, having left the cranium by the stylomastoid foramen (Plate 199), makes its way between or through portions of the parotid gland. As it appears on the face it divides into a cervico-facial and a tem- poro-facial division. The cervico-facial division distributes : to the neck (page 358) by the inframaxillary branch—to the platysma myoides muscle, etc.; to the face by the supramax- illary branch—to the depressor anguli oris, depressor labii in- ferioris, and levator menti muscles—and buccal branch—to the orbicularis oris and buccinator muscles. The temporo facial division supplies temporal branches (two) before described (page 319) and illustrated (Plate 177) ; a malar branch—to the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle ; and infraorbital branches (three) —the superior, supplies the zygomaticus major and zygomaticus minor muscles, the middle, longer, distributes to the levator anguli oris muscle, the inferior, the longest, sup- plies the levator labii superioris proprius, levator labii super- iors alseque nasi, pyramidalis nasi, compressor naris, the dila- tator naris posterior, dilatator naris anterior, and depressor alee nasi muscles. 13. Transverse Facial and Superficial Temporal Arteries, Fig. 2, Plate 182 ; and Plate 183.—The transverse facial artery (venae comites), branch of the superficial temporal, runs parallel with, and inferiorly to, the zygomatic arch, between the parotid gland and the masseter muscle ; it projects internally to the gland (Fig. 2, Plate 182), parallel with, and superiorly to, Sten- son's duct. The superficial temporal artery (vena comes) has a superior course, from the internal surface of the parotid gland (Fig. 2, Plate 182). It passes (Plate 183) internally to the facial nerve, and posteriorly to the neck of the condyloid process of the inferior maxillary bone, to its origin from the bifurcation of the external carotid artery. The transverse facial artery is given off from it, superiorly to the point where it is crossed by the facial nerve. 14. External Carotid and Internal Maxillary Arteries, Plate 183 ; Fig. 2, Plate 184.—The external carotid presents at