372 HEAD AND NECK. It lias a median-line isthmus and two lateral lobes: the isth- mus, having a variable vertical breadth, and antero-posterior thickness (about half by three-quarters of an inch), crosses the anterior of the superior portion of the trachea; the lateral lobes, a right and a left, mould themselves to the lateral sur- faces of the continuous trachea and larynx (a lobe measures vertically one inch and three-quarters, transversely one inch, and antero-posteriorly half an inch). 62. Inferior Thyroid Veins, Plates 196 and 197.—These veins emerge, inferiorly, from the lateral lobes of the thyroid body ; they lie between the tracheal fascia, anteriorly, and the trachea, posteriorly ; the right passes anteriorly to the in- nominate artery, to the right innominate vein ; the left runs anteriorly to the left common carotid subclavian arteries, to the left innominate vein. Dissection.—Clear (Plate 197) the left side of tlie trachea and expose : the left recurrent laryngeal nerve ; the thoracic duct; the first part of left sub- clavian artery and its branches—vertebral, thyroid axis and its branches, and internal mammary; also portions of the oesophagus, the left longus colli mus- cle, and the cervical portion of the left brachial plexus. 63. Trachea, Plates 196, 197, and 198.—The cervical por- tion of this fibro-cartilaginous air-passage extends, inferiorly, from the larynx (cricoid cartilage) to its disappearance into the interior of the thorax, posteriorly to the innominate and left common carotid arteries. It has an antero-posterior direction, its inferior end being further from the skin than its superior. 64. Recurrent Laryngeal Nerves, Plates 196 and 197.— These nerves, as their names imply, take a recurrent course to the larynx. The right, a branch of the right pneumogastric nerve (page 366), runs superiorly, parallel with, and applied to the surface of, the right side of the trachea, to the point where it disappears posteriorly to the right lateral lobe of the thyroid body. The left differs from the right, as follows: because of its origin from the left pneumogastric within the interior of the thorax (page 242 ; Plate 138), it is projected into the neck from the thorax, posteriorly to the left common carotid artery; its cervical portion lies in the cleft between the left side of the trachea and the oesophagus.