INTERIOR OF THE THORACIC CAVITY. 245 (place them in a solution of arsenite of soda for subsequent dissection). Pleuritic adhesions may make it difficult to remove the thoracic viscera, re- quiring the pleurae to be torn away from the interior of the thoracic parietes ; at times, even, the lung tissue may have to be cut through with scissors oppo- site the adherent areas. INTEKIOK OF THE THOKACIC CAVITY. Dissection.—Clear the surface of the thoracic portion of the oesophagus, tracing the right and left pneumogastric nerves, inferiorly, upon it; note the branches of these nerves to the oesophagus. 27. (Esophagus, Plate 139.—This portion of the supra-dia- phragmatic part of the alimentary canal enters the thorax from the neck. It leaves the thorax by the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm, where it is continued into the abdomen (page 63). In its course, through the thorax, it is located : supe- riorly, in a piane posteriorly to the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta ; in its mid-portion, it advances along the right of the descending portion of the arch of the aorta, and is then projected to the anterior surface of the superior half of the thoracic aorta; inferiorly, it passes to the left of the in- ferior half of the thoracic aorta. 28. Pneumogastric Merves.—These nerves, right and left (page 242; Plate 138), are continued, inferiorly, through the thorax upon the oesophagus, sending branches of distribution to it. They leave the thorax with the oesophagus at the oesopha- geal opening of the diaphragm. Dissection.—Trace the vena azygos major vein and its tributary branches, the right intercostal veins. Expose the thoracic or left lymphatic duct, be- tween the inferior halves of the oesophagus and the vena azygos major vein. 29. Vena Azygos Major, Right Intercostal Veins, and Right Superior Intercostal Vein, Plate 139, and Fig. 1, Plate 140.— The vena azygos major has a course, superiorly, from where it enters the thorax through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, upon the anterior surface of the right half of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae. In its course it receives the right intercostal veins from the right inferior nine intercostal spaces. At its superior end it receives the right superior intercostal vein, a small vessel formed by the intercostal veins of the right supe- rior three intercostal spaces. The azygos major trunk loops,