271 EEGIOK OF THE BACK. the transversalis abdominis muscle, externally ; it is strength- ened by the fusion of the aponeuroses of the latissimus dorsi and the serratus posticus inferior muscles. (This portion is sometimes described as the posterior layer of the lumbar fascia.) In the dorsal region it is attached : internally, to the spinous processes and supraspinous ligaments of the dorsal vertebrae ; externally, to the exterior of the ribs, externally to their angles. (This portion is usually described as the vertebral aponeurosis.) In the cervical region it presents as a thin layer of fascia between the splenius capitis and the splenius colli muscles posteriorly, and the complexus muscle, anteriorly ; in- ternally, it is attached to the ligamentum nuchas; externally, at the external border of the splenius colli muscle, it blends with the deep cervical fascia. Dissection.—Remove the fascia of the erector spinse muscle, exposing the latter muscle, with its divisions and supplementary muscles—through the lum- bar, dorsal, and cervical regions. Trace to their superior attachments the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi divisions of the erector spinae muscle. 23. Erector Spinse Muscle and iSs Sacro-Lumbalis and Longissimus ©orsi Divisions, Plates 147 and 151.—This mus- cle with its divisions and their supplementary muscles are of the fourth muscle plane of the back. The erector spina muscle occupies the sacral and lumbar regions and is attached as fol- lows : to the spines and the external portion of the posterior surface of the inferior half of the sacrum ; to the postero-inter- nal portion of the middle of the crest of the ilium (os innomi- natum) ; and to the spinous processes of the five lumbar and the twelfth dorsal vertebrae. In the lumbar region it divides into the sacro-lumbalis and the longissimus dorsi divisions. The Sacro-lumbalis division is projected, superiorly and ex- ternally, by six tendons which are attached to the exterior of the six inferior ribs (at their angles), respectively. The Longissimus dorsi division is continued superiorly, parallel with the vertebral column, having two lines of attach- ments : an external, to the exterior surfaces of the inferior ten ribs (between their angles and tubercles) ; an internal, to the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae. Dissection.—Beflect the superior portion of the sacro-lumbalis division externally ; expose the musculus accessorius from its inferior to its superior attachments; then reflect the latter externally, and display the cervicalis ascendens from its inferior to its superior attachments.