129 ANTERIOR OF LEG AND DORSUM OF FOOT. of the calcaneum. It runs along the outer border of the tarsal region, to where it passes into the plantar region, into a groove in the cuboid bone. 23. Peroiieu§ Brevis Muscle, Plates 67, 68, and 71 to 74, inclusive.—This muscle is attached to the distal half of the outer surface of the fibula, where it is lodged beneath the last- described muscle. Its tendon commences posteriorly to the external malleolus, inferiorly to which it winds to the outer side of the tarsal region, where it is lodged in the superior groove upon the outer surface of the calcaneum, and is con- tinued to its distal attachment to the base of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. The two grooves upon the outer surface of the calcaneum, for the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis muscles, are separated by the peroneal tubercle (Plate 101). Dissection.—Section the tendons of the extensor longus digitoram and the peroneus tertius muscles (Plate 72), and reflect their distal portions. Do not dissect the extensor tendons from the dorsal surfaces of the digits, but leave them to be worked and studied at page 119. Clear the surface of the extensor brevis digit orum muscle. 24. Extensor Brevis Digitorutn Muscle, Plates 68, 71, 72, and 73.—This muscle is located upon the dorsum of the foot. Its proximal attachment is to the dorsal surface of the distal end of the calcaneum, where the muscle forms a point; it then expands into a flat muscle, whose distal limit projects four tendons to the dorsal surfaces of the digits, first to fourth, in- clusive (described page 150 ; illustrated Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 82). The pollex tendon was before described (page 128). Dissection.—Cut the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicismuscle (Plate 72). Eeflect the proximal portions of the extensor longus digitoram, the pero- neus tertius, and the extensor proprius pollicis muscles to the outer side; also, the tibialis anticus muscle to the inner side (Plate 73). Expose the anterior tibial vessels and nerve between the reflected muscles ; trace the artery and nerve, and note their muscle branches. 25. Anterior Tibial Artery, Plate 73.—This artery (vense comites) lies between the tibialis anticus muscle, to its inner side, and the peroneus tertius, extensor proprius pollicis, and extensor longus digitorum muscles, to its outer side. It affords 9