EIGHTH DISSECTION. FEMALE PELVIC VISCERA OUT OF THE BODY. Dissection.—The female pelvic viscera, as taken en masse from the body (page 73), may be dissected upon a dissecting board. The rectum and bladder should be prepared as in the dissection of the male pelvic organs (page 95); the vagina should be moderately distended with oakum. In the dissection of these organs as they presented at the pelvic outlet (pages 40, 41; Plates 19 and 20), the relations of the organs were disturbed; they should now be carefully adapted in their normal relations, with one of their lateral surfaces uppermost. All connective tissue should be removed from them, being careful to preserve their peritoneal investiture, the vessels distributing to them, and the broad ligaments of the uterus, with its associated parts. 1. Lateral View of the Female Pelvic Viscera.—In this view of the viscera the rectum presents as a canal with two curvatures ; its postero-inferior convexity is for lodgment in the concavity of the sacrum; its antero-superior concavity receives the postero-inferior convexity of the vagina. The uterus protrudes from the superior end of the vagina, with a broad ligament projected from its lateral border. The inti- mate relations of the contiguous vaginal and rectal walls were before recognized (page 41). The vagina presents an an- tero-superior concavity, into which is received the postero- inferior convexity of the bladder and the urethra. The bladder will be found adherent to the anterior surface of the supra- vaginal portion of the neck of the uterus. The relations of the contiguous urethral and vaginal walls were determined in the dissection of the Female Perineum (page 41). 2. Reflections of the Pelvic Peritoneum.—The peritoneum may be traced over the fundus of the bladder—the anterior sur- face of the organ not being invested by it—whence it spreads over its sides and posterior wall; it is reflected from the latter surface to the anterior of the body of the uterus, thereby form- ing the vesico-uterine cul-de-sac ; it invests the anterior of the