349 DEEP EEGION OF THE FACE. Plate 178, and Fig. 2, Plate 184), the masseteric (Fig. 2, Plate 184), and the pterygoid (two or more), distribute superiorly and inferiorly to the corresponding muscles ; the buccal has an inferior course to the cheek ; the alveolar runs anteriorly, giv- ing off the (two) posterior dental arteries—which enter canals in the external wall of the superior maxillary bone, to dis- tribute to the molar and bicuspid teeth, of one side, of the superior dental arch—and continues to the alveolar process and gums of the superior dental arch ; the infraorbital is pro- jected anteriorly, and a little superiorly, to enter the posterior end of the infraorbital canal (Plate 181) in the floor of the orbit, where it gives off the anterior dental, before emerging to the superficial region of the face by the infra-orbital fora- men._the anterior dental nerve passes through a canal in the anterior wall of the superior maxillary bone, to supply the canine and incisor teeth, of one side, of the superior dental arch. 4. Buccal Nerve, Plate 187.—This nerve, branch of the in- ferior maxillary division of the sensory root of the trifacial nerve, emerges from between the superior and inferior portions of the external pterygoid muscle: it has an inferior course to distribute to the cheek. Dissection.—Section (Plate 187) the internal maxillary artery and its alveolar branch ; remove the portion of the vessel included between the cuts. Expose the external pterygoid muscle. Dissect away the left condyloid pro- cess of the inferior maxillary bone, demonstrating thereby the following parts : the external lateral and capsular ligaments (Plate 187), and the interarticular fibro-cartilage (Fig. 2, Plate 188) of the temporo-maxillary articulation ; also the posterior attachments of the external pterygoid muscle. Cut away the interarticular fibro-cartilage, and expose, completely, the internal lateral liga- ment of the temporo-maxillary articulation (Fig. 1, Plate 188). 5. Temporo-maxillary Articulation, Fig. 2, Plate 184 ; Plates 187, 188, and 190.—The anatomical elements of this articulation are : bones, ligaments, interarticular fibro-carti- lage, articular cartilage and synovial membrane. The bones are: the temporal, by the glenoid cavity (Fig. 1, Plate 188) of its squamous portion ; and the inferior maxil- lary, by its condyloid process. The ligaments are : the external lateral (Fig. 2, Plate 184 ; and Plate 187), from the anterior portion of the external sur-