141 PLANTAE REGION OF THE FOOT digital artery ; the latter has been described (page 135) and illustrated (Plates 76 and 77). 34. External Plantar Nerve.—This nerve appears in the sole of the foot parallel with, and to the inner side of, the exter- nal plantar artery ; it crosses, as does the artery, to the minim half of the region. It bifurcates into a superficial and a deep branch : the superficial branch bifurcates, in turn, into the fifth and sixth digital nerves, before described (page 138); the deep branch follows the course of the external plantar artery, lying to its inner side, and passes with it into the metatarsal region. The trunk of the nerve and the exposed portion of its deep branch give off nerves to muscles of the tarsal and meta- tarsal regions. 35. Nerve to the Flexor Accessorius Muscle, Plates 79 and 81.—The external plantar nerve gives off a distal branch to this muscle as it crosses its plantar surface. 36. muscle Branches from the Beep Branch of the Exter- nal Plantar ^ferve, Plate 79.—The deep branch of the external plantar nerve gives off the following distal branches from its outer side : the first, to the flexor brevis minimi digiti and the third plantar interosseous muscles ; the second, to the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle ; the third and fourth disappear in their distal course, beneath the minim terminal tendon of the flexor longus digitorum muscle. These nerves pass upon the plantar surface of the external plantar artery. Dissection.—Clear the tendons at the pollex border of the tarsal region; the initial and terminal tendons of the flexor longus digitorum muscle ; and the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle. Expose the accessorius, the lum- bricales, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti muscles ; also portions of the trans- versa pedis, the adductor pollicis, the third plantar interosseous, the fourth dorsal interosseous, and the second plantar interosseous muscles. Determine the tendons at the minim border of the tarsal region. 37. Tendon of the Tibialis Posticus Muscle, Plates 75, 79, 80, and 81.—This tendon enters the pollex border of the tarsal region, distal to the internal malleolus, and continues to its attachment to the tubercle of the scaphoid bone. 38. Tendon of the Tibialis Anticus Muscle.—The proximal portion of this muscle occupies the anterior surface of the leg,