LAKYNX. 397 (Plates 138, 196, and 197) to the point where it is about to enter the larynx. It passes, superiorly, into the larynx, be- tween the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle and the posterior surface of the signet-portion of the cricoid cartilage. It dis- tributes branches to intrinsic muscles of the larynx in the following order : to the posterior crico-arytenoid, arytenoid, lateral crico-arytenoid, thyro-arytenoid, thyro-epiglottidean, and aryteno-epiglottidean. 14. Inferior Laryngeal Artery.—This artery (vense comites), branch of the inferior thyroid artery, accompanies the last-de- scribed nerve. It distributes to the intrinsic muscles, etc., of the larynx, and anastomoses with the cricoid artery (page 367). 15. Cricoid Cartilage, Plates 190, 195, 196, 197, 207, and 208.—This cartilage forms the fixed base of the larynx ; it is signet-ring shaped, with the signet-portion posteriorly and the ring-portion anteriorly (Fig. 2, Plate 207) ; from it the trachea is continued, inferiorly. 16. Lateral Crico-arytenoid Mnscle, Fig. 2, Plate 207.— This muscle, one of a pair of intrinsic muscles of the larynx, is attached, anteriorly, to the superior border of the ring-por- tion of the cricoid cartilage ; thence it runs, under cover of the inferior border of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, to its poste- rior attachment to the inferior portion of the postero-external border of the arytenoid cartilage. IT. Thyro-arytenoid Mnscle.—This muscle has two parts, an exterior and an interior; the exterior, lying interiorly to the ala of the thyroid cartilage, is attached : anteriorly, to the posterior face of the internal portion of the ala of the thyroid cartilage; posteriorly, to the mid-portion of the postero-exter- nal border of, and to the external surface of, an arytenoid cartilage. 1§. Xhyro-epiglottidean Mnscle.—This muscle is the su- periorly-diverging fibres of the exterior part of the last-de- scribed muscle, which pass to the epiglottis. 19. Aryteno-epiglottidean Muscle.—This consists of muscle fibres in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane (page 393 ; Fig. 2, Plate 206), which bridge from the superior