221 ANTERIOE OF ELBOW, FOREARM, AND HAND. 55. Second Digital Artery, Plate 127.—This artery (vense comites), branch of the deep palmar arch, appears from the dorsal surface of the last-described muscle, along the outer side of the distal portion of the first dorsal interosseous mus- cle. It receives an anastomotic branch from the superficial palmar arch, and is projected to the outer lateral digital sur- face of the second digit. 56. Second Digital Nerve.—This nerve emerges from the dorsal surface of the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle, running parallel with, and to the outer side of, the first (second digit) tendon of the flexor sublimis digitorum muscle; it passes to the dorsal surface of the superficial pal- mar arch, and to the palmar surface of the anastomotic branch, from the arch, to the second digital artery. It occupies the palmar surface of the first lumbricalis muscle, to which, from its proximal end, it gives a branch. 57. First Lumhricalis Muscle.—This muscle lies upon the palmar surface of the adductor pollicis muscle, and to the outer side of, and parallel with, the first (second digit) tendon of the flexor sublimis digitorum muscle ; it winds over the outer side of the metacarpophalangeal articulation of the second digit, to the dorsal surface of that digit. Its palmar surface receives its nerve, from the second digital nerve. Dissection.—Expose the parts in the second palmar intertendinous space. 5§. Third Digital Nerve.—This nerve emerges from the dorsal surface of the anterior annular ligament, into the second palmar intertendinous space ; it has a distal course, to the dorsal surface of the superficial palmar arch. It bifurcates into the fourth and fifth palmar collateral digital nerves. At its proximal end, it supplies a branch to the second lumbricalis muscle. 59 Third Digital Artery.—This artery (venae comites) is a branch of the superficial palmar arch, where the latter bridges the second space; it has a distal course, to the dorsal surface ot the third digital nerve, to the webbing between the proximal ends of the second and third digits, where it bifurcates into the iourth and fifth palmar collateral digital arteries.