32 TRUNK. 1. Subcutaneous Tissue.—A plane of subcutaneous tissue presents as in the male (Plate 6), but containing more fat. Dissection.—Clear the surface of the sphincter ani muscle. Expose the superficial perineal artery and nerves in the urethrovaginal region ; also, the inferior pudendal nerve, external to the region. 2. Sphincter Ani Muscle, Plate 13.—The muscle presents as in the male, except that the muscle mass, constituted by the right and left halves, is more circular, making it shorter antero-posteriorly ; it is located nearer the coccyx. 3. superficial Perineal Artery.—This artery (vena comes) differs from the same vessel in the male, in that it is exterior, instead of interior, to the perineal fascia ; it perforates the triangular ligament and the perineal fascia from within out- wards, to distribute to the labium majus and mons veneris Interior to the perineal fascia it gives off the transverse perineal artery. 4. Superficial Perineal Nerves.—The cutaneous portions of the posterior superficial and the anterior superficial perineal nerves, like the artery, perforate the perineal fascia for distri- bution to the same parts as the artery. The posterior super- ficial nerve gives off a muscle branch, which distributes in a plane exteriorly to the triangular ligament; it also supplies a nerve to the bulb. 5. Inferior Pudendal Nerve—The perineal branch of this nerve is exterior to the perineal fascia, otherwise the nerve is the same as in the male perineum, see page 16. It distributes to the labium majus and the mons veneris. Dissection.—Clear the surface of the perineal fascia, noting the points of perforation of the superficial vessels and nerves. Dig out the fat from the an- terior portion of the ischiorectal fossa, as in the male (Plate 6), to expose the posterior edge of the perineal fascia; see Male Perineum, page 16. In remov- ing the fat, be very careful not to cut through the anterior portion of the leva- tor fascia, as it joins the posterior edge of the perineal fascia. 6. Perineal Fascia.—See Male Perineum, page 16. In the female, this fascia, in addition to the lateral and posterior at- tachments of the male, forms a layer of the labium majus, and passes, anteriorly, into the inguinal region, to be continuous with the deep layer of its subcutaneous tissue. Upon the