428 HEAD AND KECK. 44. Structural Appearances of the Cerebellum, Fig. 2, Plate 221.—The interior of the cerebellum presents circumfer- ential grey and central white neural tissue. The lamination of its exterior determines a peculiar foliated appearance at the circumference of its vertical section called arbor vitce—this re- sults from the grey neural tissue borders to the minor fissures of its exterior, in contrast with the central white neural tissue. At the side of the median line the central, white, neural tissue of a cerebellar hemisphere presents a small area bordered by a dentated line of grey neural tissue, with a lighter-colored cen- tre, the corpus dentatum. Dissection.—Cut away the stump of the cerebrum anteriorly to the pons Varolii, as in Fig. 1, Plate 222 ; place the same, with the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata portions of the brain, in the position shown in Fig. 1, Plate 222. Follow the left optic tract to the geniculate bodies of the left thalamus opticus. 45. Optic Tract, and the External and Internal Genicu- late Bodie§ of a Thalamus Opticus, Fig. 1, Plate 222.—The optic tracts were partly described (page 415) and illustrated (Plate 214). An optic tract may be followed, externally and posteriorly, to the inferior surface of the posterior portion of a thalamus opticus, where it enters the two prominences of the external and internal geniculate body there located. Dissection.—Turn the part of the brain, Fig. 1, Plate 222, upon its antero- inferior surface, so as to display its postero-superior area, as in Fig. 2, Plate 222. 46. Corpora Quadrigemina, Fig. 1, Plate 218 ; Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 222.—These present as four prominences, two anterior —nates—and two posterior—testes ; they are divided by a median line and a transverse furrow (Fig. 2, Plate 222), and are located posteriorly to the cavity of the third ventricle, and the internal portions of the right and left thalamus opticus. The pineal body is lodged superiorly to the anterior portions of the nates (page 422; Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 222). From the external and the internal geniculate bodies, respectively, an optic tract branches to the natis and testis, of a side, by well- marked lateral welts, the superior and inferior brachium of the latter bodies, respectively. 47. Proce§si e Ceretoello ad Te§te§, Fig. 2, Plate 222.— These are a right and a left band of white neural tissue, which