ANTEEIOE OF ELBOW, FOREARM, AND HAND. 211 Dissection.—Section (Plate 123) the proximal ends of the internal cutane- ous and musculo-cutaneous nerves, and strip them from the fascia of the fore- arm ; section the radial, the ulnar, the median, the median-cephalic, and the median-basilic veins ; then clear away the veins from the anterior of the fore- arm, reflecting their proximal portions on the arm. Follow the palmar cuta- neous branch of the median nerve, to the latter, by slitting the fascia. Incise the fascia of the forearm in the same lines as the skin incisions 1, 2, and 3, of Figure 10; reflect flaps of the fascia to the inner and outer sides of the limb, exposing the subjacent muscles, etc. 14. Flexor Carpi Radialis Muscle, Plates 121, 125, and 127. —This muscle has a longitudinal, and slightly oblique, course, from the anterior surface of the internal condyle of the hu- merus, to the palmar surface of the base of the second meta- carpal bone ; to reach the latter point, its tendon passes, to the dorsal surface of the anterior annular ligament and the proximal ends of the muscles of the pollex eminence. 15. Pa!maris Longus Muscle.—This muscle (sometimes ab- sent) has a proximal attachment to the anterior of the inner condyle of the humerus. Its course is parallel with, and to the inner side of, the last-described muscle ; its distal end ex- pands into the palmar fascia (page 210 ; Plate 124). 16. Flexor Carpi Ulnar! s Muscle.—This muscle is located along the inner side of the forearm, from the inner condyle of the humerus, to its distal attachment to the pisiform bone. IT. Supinator Longus Muscle, Plates 121 and 125.—This muscle lies along the outer half of the anterior surface of the forearm : its proximal attachment is to the external condyloid ridge of the humerus ; its distal to the outer side of the distal end of the radius, proximal to its styloid process. 1§. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longlor Muscle.—This muscle runs parallel with, but posteriorly to, the last-described mus- cle; at about the distal third of the forearm, its tendon passes to the posterior of the limb. >. Radial \erve, Plate 125.—At a variable point, at the side of the supinator longus muscle, this nerve is pro-