191 ARTICULATION OF THE HIP. the femur and the exterior of the cotyloid cavity of the os in- nominatum. The anterior portion presents a complete sheet of fibrous tissue, in which can be defined three bands: the ilio- femoral band, the ilio-femoral ligament, and the pubio-femoral band. The ilio-femoral band forms the superior portion of the capsular ligament, from the internal face of the trochanter major, to the exterior surface of the superior portion of the cotyloid cavity of the ilium. The ilio-femoral ligament passes from the anterior surface of the neck of the femur—along the anterior intertrochanteric line—to the anterior portion of the exterior surface of the cotyloid cavity—as high as the anterior- inferior spinous process of the ilium. The pubio-femoral band bridges from the neck of the femur, externally and superiorly to the trochanter minor, to the anterior surface of the horizon- tal ramus of the pubic portion of the os innominatum, inter- nally to the attachment of the ilio-femoral ligament. Dissection.—Section the anterior, the superior, and the inferior portions of the capsular ligament, circumferentially; fold its inferior and external por- tions back, like the sleeve of a coat, upon the trochanters of the femur; slit its superior part, as in Fig. 2, Plate 111, and reflect the portions, internally. Dis- locate the head of the femur from the cotyloid cavity, and allow the femur to hang by the ligamentum teres and the posterior portion of the capsular liga- ment. 3. Cotyloid Fiforo-Cartilage (Cotyloid Ligament), Fig. 2, Plate 111 ; Fig. 3, Plate 110.—This is a circumferential fibro- cartilage, that rims the border of the cotyloid cavity. When the head of the femur is lodged in the cotyloid cavity, it ap- plies itself to it—like a tight india-rubber band—and holds the ball-like head of bone into the socket of the joint. 4. Ligamentum Teres.—This is an interosseous ligament, that passes from a depression in the inferior half of the con- vexity of the head of the femur, to the internal portion of the cotyloid cavity of the os innominatum. 5. Transverse Ligament.—This is the name given to that portion of the cotyloid fibro-cartilage. that bridges across the notch at the internal border of the cotyloid cavity. Its interior surface is articular, being applied to the circumference of the head of the femur.