ANTEKIOE OF ELBOW, FOREAKM, AND HAND. 215 of the humerus; it separates the brachials anticus muscle from the inner head of the triceps muscle. 32. Triceps Muscle.—A portion of the inner head of this muscle lies posteriorly to the inner intermuscular septum. 33. Ulnar Nerve and Inferior Profunda Artery. —A short segment of this nerve, accompanied by this artery, lies upon the surface of the inner head of the triceps muscle, to the proximal side of the inner condyle of the humerus, and poste- riorly to the inner intermuscular septum. 34. Outer Portion of the Anconeal Space.—This portion of the space is bounded : to the inner side, by the biceps mus- cle and its tendon ; to the outer side, by the supinator longus muscle. Dissection.—Section the supinator longus muscle (Plate 125) and hook its proximal portion to the outer side. Find and display the musculo-spiral, the radial, the posterior interosseous nerves—with the branches of the first' and third-also, the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Expose the radial recurrent and the superior profunda arteries. Clear the areas of the portions of the muscles forming the floor of the outer portion of the anconeal space. 35. Musculo-Spiral Xerve.—The distal end of this nerve appears at the proximal limit of the outer portion of the an- coneal space, between the brachialis anticus and the supinator longus muscles. From its outer side it gives off one branch to the supinator longus muscle, and two branches to the ex- tensor carpi radialis longior muscle. 36. Radial Xerve.—This nerve arises from the bifurcation ot the musculo-spiral nerve; it is projected into the forearm through the outer portion of the anconeal space. It has a course to the outer side of the tendon of the biceps and the radial artery. hrarTi. POfurJ0r Interosseo»s tferve.-This, the largest of the blanches of bifurcation of the musculo-spiral nerve, has a dis- m2T u0™ ltS °rigin t0itS P0int of transit th^ugh the supinator brevis muscle, by which it reaches its distribution at the posterior region of the forearm. The anconeal portion of