PLANTAR REGION OF THE FOOT. 139 surface of the inner border of the flexor brevis digitorum muscle, and runs through the pollex metatarsal (upon the plantar sur- face of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle) and digital areas. 25. Terminal Tendons of the Flexor Longus Digitorum Muscle.—The distal ends of these tendons appear on the plan- tar surfaces of the digits, second to fifth, inclusive, distal to the button-hole openings in the tendons of the flexor brevis digi- torum muscle (page 137). 26. Flexor Brevis Pollieis Muscle.—The plantar surface of the first metatarsal bone lodges this muscle ; the tendon of the longus pollicis muscle runs, on its plantar surface, in a furrow between its heads (Plate 81). Its inner head and a portion of its outer head appear at this stage of the dissection. 27. Digital Arteries, Plates 77 and 79.—The distal por- tions of the second, third, fourth, and fifth digital arteries ap- pear to the outer sides of, and parallel with, the flexor tendons. They pass into the webbing between the toes, and there bifur- cate into the plantar collateral digital arteries (page 135.) Dissection.—Section (Plate 77) the proximal ends of the exposed portions of the first digital, the internal plantar, and the fifth and sixth digital nerves. Cut the nerves to the flexor brevis pollicis and those to the first and second lumbricales muscles. Eeflect the digital nerves, first to sixth, inclusive, off from the toes. Section the proximal ends of the anastomotic artery from the internal plantar, the terminal portion of the internal plantar artery, and the first digital artery. Reflect the first digital artery (cutting its anastomotic branch) and the internal plantar artery over the toes ; turn off the branches of the anastomotic artery from the internal plantar artery to the anastomoses of its branches with the digital arteries—third, fourth, and fifth—and cut them away. Section (Plate 78) the flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor pollicis and the abductor minimi digiti muscles ; reflect their distal portions and cut them away (Plate 79); turn off their proximal portions, noting their artery and nerve supply; cut the nerves close to the muscles and then cut away the muscles near their cal- caneal attachments (Plate 79). Follow to their proximal ends, at the inner side of the calcaneum, the internal plantar nerve and artery. Trace the external plantar artery in its distal course from the inner surface of the ankle. Follow the external plantar nerve in its distal course from the inner surface of the ankle, and determine its muscle branches ; note that the distal ones cross upon the plantar surface of the external plantar artery. 28. Internal Plantar Artery, Plate 79.—This artery (vense comites) arises, at its proximal end, from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial artery, at the inner side of the calcaneum.