POSTERIOR OF SHOULDER AND ARM. 293 axilla. It appears, posteriorly, in the space bounded by the humerus, the teres minor muscle, the long head of the triceps muscle, and the teres major muscle ; after winding around the external surface of the proximal end of the shaft of the humerus its terminal branches distribute to the deltoid muscle entering its internal surface. Its cutaneous branch has been described (page 289) and illustrated (Plate 159). 20. Nerve to the Teres Minor Muscle.—This nerve is given off from the last-described nerve, near the point where the lat- ter appears posteriorly. It takes an internal course to the muscle it supplies, running posteriorly to the proximal end of the long head of the triceps muscle. It is accompanied by a branch from the posterior circumflex artery. 21. Posterior Circumflex Artery.—This artery (vense com- ites), a branch from the external portion of the axillary artery (page 206 ; Plate 120), appears, posteriorly, to the distal side of the circumflex nerve. It distributes to contiguous muscles, but mainly to the deltoid. Dissection.—Section the supraspinatus muscle (Plate 160), and reflect its internal portion, internally, as in Plate 162. Find and trace the suprascapular artery and nerve. 22. Suprascapular Artery, Plate 162.—This artery (vena3 comites) presents posteriorly, at the suprascapular notch of the scapula, where it enters the supraspinous fossa. It dis- tributes to the supraspinatus muscle, and is continued into the infraspinous fossa. 23. Suprascapular Nerve.—This nerve appears, posteriorly, at the suprascapular notch, accompanying the last-described artery. It supplies a branch to the supraspinatus muscle, and a second to the shoulder-joint. It sends a branch into the infraspinous fossa. Dissection.—Section the infraspinatus and the teres minor muscles (Plate 161). Dissect away their infraspinous fossa portions, and reflect their external and superior portions upon the head of the humerus. Trace the dorsal scapu- lar artery into the infraspinous fossa, also the suprascapular artery, noting their anastomoses. Find and trace the branch of the suprascapular nerve into the infraspinous fossa.