416 HEAD AO NECK. around the external sides of the crura cerebri (Plate 214, left side), to the anterior of the inferior surface of the crura, whence they have an anterior, and internal, course to their anterior convergence. The optic commissure is the point of junction of the right and left optic tracts or peduncles ; it is located be- tween the anterior perforated spaces, posteriorly to the lamina cinerea, and anteriorly to the tuber cinereum. 6. Crura Cerebri or Cerebral Peduncles.—These are two columns of neural tissue, which are projected, right and left, from the anterior of the pons Varolii; they pass to, and cross superiorly to, the optic tracts into the right and the left hem- isphere, respectively, of the cerebrum. 7. Interpeduncular Space.—This is an area—sometimes spoken of as lozenge-shaped or like the diamond figure on a playing-card—located at the centre of the basal surface of the brain, and bounded as follows : antero-laterally, by the optic commissure and its converging peduncles or the optic tracts ; postero-laterally, by the pons Varolii and the diverging cerebral peduncles or crura cerebri. It encloses the tuber cinereum, the pituitary body suspended by the infandibulum, the corpora mammillaria, and the posterior perforated space. These parts form the floor of the third ventricle of the cerebrum. §. Tuber Cinereum.—This is a stretch of nerve tissue from the posterior of the optic commissure to the corpora mammil- laria, and crura cerebri. From its anterior portion the infun- dibulum is projected inferiorly. 9. Pituitary Body.—This is a flattened, transversely ovoid body, about the size of a pea, which is held, by the infundi- bulum, to the tuber cinereum. It is lodged, in situ, in the sella turcica—superior surface of the body of the sphenoid bone—where it is covered by the dura mater ; in taking the brain from the cranium (page 324), the infundibulum was seen emerging from the centre of this portion of the dura mater. As removed from the sella turcica, the pituitary body hangs from the tuber cinereum, by the infundibulum, as a cherry on its fruit-stalk. 10. Corpora Mammillaria.—These are two symmetrical, small, mamma-like prominences located between : the tuber