189 AETICULATION OF THE KNEE. dyles ; the borders of the patella ; and the anterior borders of the tibial tuberosities and the lateral ligaments. Interiorly it is lined by the synovial membrane of the joint. Dissection.—Section the pop]iteus muscle and the external lateral liga- ment (Fig. 1, Plate 109); then dissect up the proximal end of the tendon of the popliteus muscle and cut it to the proximal side of its attachment to the con- vexity of the outer fibro-cartilage (Fig. 1, Plate 110). Cut, transversely, through the internal lateral ligament, the posterior ligament, and the anterior ligament of the joint. Manipulate the joint so as to expose the anterior and posterior surfaces of the two crucial ligaments, in situ. Section the crucial ligaments ; display their portions, following them to their distal and proximal attachments, respectively. Expose the fibro-cartilages, their transverse and coronary ligaments. 7. Crucial Ligaments, Figs. 1 and 2, Plates 109 and 110. —Flexing the knee-joint, the anterior surfaces of these two ligaments are seen crossing each other between the tibia and femur (Fig. 2, Plate 109); extending the joint, their posterior surfaces are exposed (Fig. 1, Plate 109). The anterior or ex- ternal bridges from the depression anterior to the spine— between the articular surfaces—of the tibia, to the outer wall of the intercondyloid notch of the femur. The posterior or internal passes from the depression posterior to the spine— between the articular surfaces—of the tibia, to the inner wall of the intercondyloid notch of the femur. Besides the attach- ments given of these ligaments, they are, respectively, attached to the contiguous tips of the fibro-cartilages. 8. Fibro-Cartilageg, Fig. 1, Plate 110; Fig. 2, Plate 109.— These are two semilunar plates of fibro-cartilage, which are thick at their convex and thin at their concave borders; they are lodged upon the articular surfaces of the inner and the outer tuberosity, respectively, of the tibia ; the inner being the larger of the two. The horns of these fibro-cartilages approach each other, at the depressions anterior and posterior to the spine of the tibia, where they are attached. As before stated, the tibial attachments of the crucial ligaments intervene be- tween the fibro-cartilages ; some of the ligament fibres are attached to their tips. The tendon of the popliteus muscle is attached to the convex border of the outer fibro-cartilao-e (page 188).