128 LOWER EXTREMITY. proprius pollicis muscle and the inner terminal tendon of the extensor longns Sgftorum muscle-npon the dorsum of the tarsal and metatarsal regrons. 19 Pollex Tendon of tUe Extensor Bmk Digitornm Mnse.'e, Plates 71 and 72.-This, the inner tendon of the mus- cle, has a distal, and oblique, course from the second digit (ter- minal) tendon of the extensor longus digitorum muscle to its attachment to the dorsal surface of the base of the phalanx of the first digit, 20. Dorsal.* Pedis Artery, Plates 71 to 74, inclusive -TMs artery (ven» comites) enters upon the dorsum of the foot from the posterior of the anterior annular ligament; it continues alo Jthe outer side of the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis muscle, to where it bifurcates into the metatarsal and he second dorsal digital arteries. The second dorsal dtgital arVryl™ - ^ course' betWeen the .*f sf° ™Z tarsal bones, giving off the first dorsal digital artery, to the nner lateral digital surface of the first digit; it is crossed upon IHorS surface by the pollex tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum muscle. 31. Anterior Tibial Nerve.-This nerve is continued from the leo- to the dorsum of the foot, accompanying the dorsahs ted s artery, along its outer side. It gives off a branch from Hs outer side, which passes beneath the extensor brevis dig,- torum muscle. The nerve-trunk continues into the first in- I ^tarsal snace receives an anastomotic branch from the SSSSSSSnerve (Plate 69), and distributes as before described (page 125). Dissection-Incise and remove the fascia from the peroneus JonguB and Dissection. snrface of the leg> Trace peroneusbrevis muscles ^o^jute ^ ^ their tendons posteriorly, and lnienoiry, iu the outer border of the foot. 22 Peronens I.onSns Mnsele, Pig. % Plate 67 ; Plates 71 to 74)Tn'cln3ve.-This, the superficial muscle .,, the outer su - face of the leg, is attached to the proximal half of the fabuJa. Shou the miadle of the leg its tendon commences and con- tinues upon the peroneus brevis muscle to the posterior of the external malleolus ; it then winds inferiorly to the malleolus where it is lodged in the inferior groove upon the outer surface