290 UPPER EXTREMITY. tween its spiral groove and its outer tuberosity (Plate 158); an inner head, located to the inner side of the distal portion of the long head, is attached to the inner side of the posterior surface of the shaft of the humerus, distal to its spiral groove (Plate 158). The long and the outer heads are projected, in a distal direction, from the anterior surface of the posterior por- tion of the deltoid muscle (Plate 160) ; in the distal half of the arm they are joined by the inner head ; the three heads form- ing a common tendon at the proximal side of the elbow-joint. The distal attachment of the muscle is by an aponeurotic ex- pansion to the olecranon process of the ulna, at its tip and sides ; while the outer portion of the aponeurosis fuses with the fascia of the forearm ; the latter is attached to the pos- terior border of the shaft of the ulna. Between the outer and inner head attachments of the muscle to the humerus a spiral groove presents, on the outer side of the middle of the shaft of that bone (Plate 158). DissECTiON.-Clear the surface of the supraspinal muscle, tracing it to where its external end disappears inferiorly to the acromion process of the scapula. 9. Supraspinal Muscle, Plates 158, 160, and 161—This muscle is lodged in, and has its internal attachment to, the supraspinous fossa of the scapula ; it has an external course, inferiorly to the acromioclavicular articulation, and the acro- mion process of the scapula. Its external portion crosses the superior face of the capsular ligament of the scapulohumeral or shoulder-joint, to reach its external attachment to the su- perior facet'of the outer tuberosity of the humerus (Fig. 2, Plate 158). DissECTioN.-Section the deltoid muscle, as in Plate 162 ; reflect the pos- terior portion of the muscle anteriorly. Clear the surfaces of the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles. 10 Infraspinatus Muscle.—This muscle is lodged in, and has its internal and inferior attachment to, the infraspmous fossa of the scapula. Its fibres have an external and superior course, the muscle narrowing to where it crosses the posterior face of the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. Its si pe- rior and external end is attached to the middle facet upon the outer tuberosity of the humerus (Fig. 2, Plate 158). M