POSTERIOR REGION OF LEG AND POPLITEAL SPACE. 153 10. Inner Root of the External Saphenous Nerve.—This nerve has a proximal course along the inner side of the last- described vein ; it can be traced to the popliteal space, to where it is given oft' from the internal popliteal nerve. 11. Outer Root of tlie External Saphenous Nerve.—This root can be traced upon the outer head of the gastrocnemius muscle, to its proximal origin from the cutaneous branch of the external popliteal nerve. 12. Cutaneous Rraneh of the External Popliteal Nerve. —This nerve lies upon the outer head of the gastrocnemius muscle, emerging from the outer side of the popliteal space, where it is given off from the inner side of the external pop- liteal nerve. Its branches perforate the fascia to distribute to the outer side of the leg; some of its branches are projected into the outer anterolateral area of the leg (page 125 ; Plate 69). Dissection.—Clear the surface of the gastrocnemius muscle, preserving the ramifications of the four last-described nerves, and the proximal end of the external saphenous vein. 13. Gastrocnemius Muscle, Plates 83, 85, and 86.—This muscle occupies the proximal half of the posterior region of the leg. At its proximal end it presents two diverging por- tions—the outer and the inner heads—which pass to be attached to the posterior surface of the femur, at the proximal side of the condyles of that bone. Its posterior surface presents a lon- gitudinal-median furrow, which lodges the external saphenous vein, the inner root of the external saphenous nerve, and the terminal branch of the small sciatic nerve. At its distal end the muscle forms a fiat tendon, which fuses with the tendon of the soleus muscle to form the tendo Achillis. Dissection.—Section the small sciatic nerve (Plate 85) and remove its dis- tal portion. Clear the muscles forming the proximal boundaries of the pop- liteal space. Trace the external popliteal nerve, also the internal saphenous nerve and vein. 14. Biceps Muscle, Fig. 2, Plate 67 ; Plates 85 to 88, inclu- sive, and Plate 90.—The distal portion of this muscle forms the outer boundary of the proximal half of the popliteal space ; it may be traced to its attachment to the proximal end of the fibula.