ANTERIOR OF THIGH. Ill 16. Vastus Interims Muscle.—The distal angle, formed be- tween the sartorius and the rectus femoris, is occupied by this muscle; it winds over the inner surface of the femur down to the knee. 17. Gracilis Muscle, Plates 59 and 61 to 65 inclusive.—This flat, ribbon-like muscle extends along the inner face of the thigh; its proximal attachment is at the exterior border of the pubic arch, its distal at the inner tuberosity of the tibia. About the middle of the thigh it becomes contiguous to the sartorius. 18. Adductor Longus Muscle, Plates 59, 61, 62 and 63.— Occupying the proximal angle, formed by the sartorius and the gracilis, is this triangular muscle ; its apex or proximal end is attached to the exterior face of the body of the os pubis; its fibres have a distal and oblique course, passing beneath the inner border of the sartorius to the attachment of its base to the shaft of the femur, at the linea aspera (Pig. 1, Plate 93). 19. Adductor Magnus Muscle, Plate 61.—In the interval between the sartorius, the gracilis and the adductor longus, a portion of this muscle appears. 20. Scarpa's Triangle.—This name has been given to the triangular space, which has its base or proximal limit at Pou- part's ligament, its apex or distal limit at the angle of meeting of the sartorius and adductor longus, and its outer and inner sides formed by these muscles, respectively. The floor of the space is formed, at its inner portion, by the anterior surface of the pectineus muscle ; at its outer portion, by the anterior sur- faces of the thigh portions of the psoas magnus and iliacus in- ternus muscles. Dissection.—Clear the surface of the pectineus muscle, respecting, in so doing, the vessels crossing it. Take up the stump of the internal saphenous vein and follow it to the femoral vein. Open the femoral sheath at the proxi- mal ends of the femoral vein and arterv, and expose the two vessels and the femoral canal. Clear the surface of the iliacus internus muscle (Plate 61), that presents to the inner side of the proximal end of the sartorius. Follow the stump of the middle and internal cutaneous nerves to the anterior crural nerve ; clear the latter nerve as it lies parallel with the femoral vessels, and determine its deep branches. 21. Vessels and Nerves in Scarpa's Triangle.—Within this triangle are to be found, projected from beneath Poupart's