132 LOWER EXTREMITY. 33. Musculocutaneous Nerve, Plate 74.—This nerve, given off from the external popliteal, has a muscle distribution to the peroneus longus and brevis muscles ; and a cutaneous dis- tribution as before described (pages 124 and 125) and illustrated (Plates 69 and 70). 34. Anterior Tibial Nerve.—This nerve passes from the ex- ternal popliteal, through the proximal portions of the peroneus longus muscle, the intermuscular septum, and the extensor longus digitorum muscle, to reach the anterior surface of the tibio-hbular interosseous ligament, where it was before de- scribed (page 130). Dissection.—Trace the anterior tibial artery to its proximal limit; follow its anterior tibial recurrent branch. Find, at the opening in the distal por- tion of the tibio-fibular interosseous ligament, the anterior peroneal artery; follow it to its anastomosis. 35. Anterior Tibial Artery.—The proximal end of this ar- tery (venae comites) emerges, from the posterior to the ante- rior region of the leg, by a deficiency in the proximal portion of the tibio-fibular interosseous ligament. 36. Anterior Tibial Recurrent Artery.—This artery (vense comites) is given off from the proximal end of the anterior tibial ; it has a recurrent course through the proximal portion of the extensor longus digitorum muscle, to contribute to the peri-articular network of anastomosing arteries upon the outer anterolateral area of the knee. 37. Anterior Peroneal Artery.—This artery (vense comites), branch of the peroneal artery of the posterior region of the leg, emerges, to the anterior of the leg, by an opening in the distal portion of the tibio-fibular interosseous ligament. It takes a distal course along the outer side of the ankle-joint, to the tar- sal region of the foot, where it anastomoses with the external malleolar branch of the anterior tibial artery. Dissection.—After this dissection, be careful to keep the leg and foot wet; more especially the toes, dorsum of the foot, ankle, and knee.