267 REGION OF THE BACK. Dissection.—Dissect away the fascia from the first plane of muscles of the back; cut the nerves and arteries of the subcutaneous plane, preserving the stumps of the same. 9. Trapeziu§ Muscle, Plates 147 and 149.—This muscle is attached : internally, to the spinous processes of the twelve dorsal and the seventh cervical vertebrae, to the ligamentum nuchas, and to the internal portion of the superior curved line of the occipital bone ; externally, to the postero-superior por- tion of the surface of the spine of, and the border of the acromion process of, the scapula, and to the postero-superior border of the external third of the clavicle. The fibres of the muscle have a variable direction : the inferior pass superiorly and externally ; the middle are directed externally ; the supe- rior run interiorly, externally, and anteriorly. Along its ver- tebral border it presents an aponeurotic portion of variable breadth—broadest at the inferior cervical and superior dorsal regions. It is perforated, near its median-line attachments, by small arteries and the internal (cutaneous) branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical and dorsal spinal nerves (page 266). 10. Latis§imng Dorsi Mu§cle, Plate 149.—This muscle isat- ; tached: internally and inferiorly, to the spinous processes of the six inferior dorsal vertebrae, to the fascia of the erector spinas muscle, to the internal quarter of the exterior lip of the crest of the ilium (os innominatum), and to the exterior sur- | faces of the three inferior ribs (between the attachments of the serratus posticus inferior and the obliquus externus muscles, where it interdigitates with the three inferior digitations of the obliquus externus muscle) ; externally and superiorly, by a narrow tendinous portion, to the bed of the bicipital groove of the humerus (page 196 ; Plates 113, and 116 to 120, inclusive). The fibres of the muscle have a variable direction : the inferior pass superiorly, externally, and an- teriorly ; the superior are directed externally, superiorly, i and anteriorly. The muscle is thus swathed about the pos- tero-lateral areas of the abdomen and thorax. Its superior portion, lying in a plane anteriorly to the inferior portion of the trapezius, is projected, externally, from the latter muscle, and overlaps the inferior angle of the scapula. Along its line of attachment to the fascia upon the erector spinas muscle, it