415 ARTERIES OP THE BRAIN. the cerebrum, the pons Varolii, the cerebellum, and the medulla oblongata ; secondarily, each of these parts is made up of dis- tinguishable portions. The organ has a mean weight, in the adult (taking both sexes) of from two and a half to three and a quarter pounds, with the extremes at two and four pounds —the male brain ranges a little over one-quarter of a pound heavier than the female. Dissection.—Place the brain with its inferior surface uppermost. 1. Basal Surface of the Brain, Plate 214.—This surface of the brain presents the following : parts of the cerebrum—in- ferior surfaces of frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes, ante- rior perforated spaces, lamina cinerea, optic commissure and optic tracts, pituitary body, tuber cinereum, corpora mam- millaria, crura cerebri, and posterior perforated space ; the antero-inferior surfaces of the pons Varolii, medulla oblongata, and cerebellum ; and the origins from the exterior of the brain —cerebrum, pons Varolii, and medulla oblongata—of the twelve pairs of cranial nerves. 2. Longitudinal Fissure.—The anterior of this cerebral fissure divides, antero-posteriorly, the frontal lobes, at their basal surfaces ; it is limited posteriorly by the inferior portion of the anterior reflection—the rostrum—of the corpus callosum, and the lamina cinerea. 3. Anterior Perforated Spaces.—These areas are bounded: anteriorly, by the posterior orbital convolution of the frontal lobe and the olfactory nerve ; externally, by the central lobe; posteriorly and internally, by the optic tract and the optic commissure. Its openings give transit to branches of the mid- dle cerebral artery (Plate 211), which pass, superiorly, to the corpus striatum of the cerebrum. 4. Lamina Cinerea.—This is a stretch of neural tissue (grey), from the posterior of the rostrum of the corpus callo- sum to the optic commissure, and posteriorly to the latter to the tuber cinereum. It is between the right and left anterior perforated spaces, and closes in the anterior recess of the infe- rior wall of the third ventricle of the cerebrum. 5. Optic Tracts and Optic Commissure.—The optic tracts or peduncles are a right and a left band, which wind, interiorly,