UPPER EXTREMITY. 208 1. Subcutaneous Tissue and Veins of the Anterior of the Elbow and Forearm, Plates 123 and 115.—The subcutaneous tissue of the anterior of the elbow and forearm presents a net- work of veins and nerves. The veins are not comites to arteries ; they occupy a plane superficial to the nerves, and they are sub- ject to many variations. To the inner side is the anterior ulnar vein, which has a longitudinal and proximal course to the elbow ; toward its proximal end it receives the posterior ulnar vein, from the posterior of the forearm ; the resultant vein is the common ulnar vein at the inner side of the elbow. At the outer side of the forearm is the radial vein, which has a proxi- mal course to the elbow. At the middle of the forearm is a more or less well-developed vein, the median: it commences at the wrist, from which it has a proximal course to the elbow, where it bifurcates into the median-basilic and the median- cephalic veins ; near or at its point of bifurcation it gives off an anastomotic branch, which perforates the fascia to anastomose with the deep or comites veins of the region. At the anterior surface and outer side of the elbow the radial and the median- cephalic veins join to form the cephalic vein of the arm (page 195). At the anterior surface and inner side of the elbow the common ulnar and the median-basilic veins, by their conflu- ence, form the basilic vein of the arm (page 195). 2. Internal Cutaneous Nerve.—This nerve is continued, by several branches, from the inner side of the arm (page 195 ; Plate 115) into the forearm ; the proximal one passes to the posterior of the forearm, along the inner side of the elbow ; the others pass, posteriorly to the median-basilic vein, into the inner half of the anterior surface of the forearm, as far as the •wrist. 3. Musculocutaneous Nerve.—This nerve enters from the arm (page 203 ; Plates 116 and 118) into the outer half of the anteriorof the forearm, passing, as it crosses the elbow, poste- riorly to the median-cephalic vein ; it is continued to the palm of the hand, and anastomoses with the radial nerve. 4. Inferior External Cutaneous Branch of the Musculo- Spiral Nerve.—At the outer side of the elbow this nerve enters from the arm, and is continued to the posterior of the forearm;