^gg LOWER EXTREMITY. nemius (outer head), to the proximal side of the otter con- dyle ; the adductor magnus and gastrocnemius (inner head), to the proximal side of the inner condyle ; the popliteus, to the outer face of the outer condyle (Fig. 2, Plate 110). 2. posterior Ligament, Pig. 2, Plate 108.-This ligament has its distal attachment to the tibia ; its proximal attachment is to the femur, at the proximal side of its condyles. It meets on either side the posterior borders of the respective lateral liga- ments of the joint. At its inner side it is contributed to by the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle (page 171) At its middle it is perforated by the azygos articular branch of the popliteal artery, and by the articular branches from the inter- nal popliteal and obturator (page 118 ; Plate 64) nerves. 8. External Lateral Ligament, Fig. 1, Plate 1W--™<V« short, round ligament, bridges from the proximal end of the fibula to the outer condyle of the femur. 4 Tendon of the Poplitens Mnsele, Fig. 1, Plate 107 ; Fig. 2, Plate 108 ; Fig. 1, Plate 109 ; Fig. 2, Plate llO.-The proxi- mal attachment of this muscle is to the outer condyle of the femur, within the ligaments of the joint; its tendon winds to the posterior surface of the knee, where it emerges from withm the ligaments, at a point between the external ateral ligament and the border of the outer fibro-cartilage of the pint in its course it is attached to the convex border of the lattei The muscle expands, as it passes to its distort:attachmen to the posterior surface of the proximal end of the tibia (Plates 88, 90, and 98). 5. internal Lateral Ligament, Fig. 2, Plate, 1OT'.-This lig- ament bridges from the inner tuberosity of the tibia to the inner condyle of the femur ; some of its fibres wind round to be attached to the posterior surface of the tuberosity of the tibia. 6 Anterior Ligament, Plates 64, 65, and 107 ; Fig. 1, Plate 108-'Fig. 2, Plate 109.-This ligament was cut at the circuin- ference of the patella, and partly described, at page 116. I is attached to the anterior of the femur proxunally to its con