27 MALE PERINEUM. the base of the prostate, and they receive the dorsal veins of the penis. They are situated between the recto-vesical fascial septum and the bladder. 48. Rectum, Plates 11 and 12.—The third, and the anterior surface of the inferior part of the second, portions of the rectum are brought into view in the exposure of the viscera at the out- let of the male pelvis. The third portion is projected from the apex of the coccyx to the anus ; it is surrounded by areolar tissue and fat, which are lodged, as we have seen, in the right and left ischio-rectal fossae (page 16 ; Plate 6). A triangular, complex mass of tissue exists between the anterior surface of the third portion of the rectum, posteriorly, and the inferior surface of the prostate and the membranous portion of the urethra, anteriorly : the apex of the space is at the junction of the prostate and the rectum ; its base is at the skin area be- tween the anus and the scrotum ; this portion is called the surgical perineum, as it is involved in perineal operations. The antero-superior surface of the second portion of the rectum is in contiguity with the prostate, the vesiculaa seminales, the vasa deferentia, and the bladder. The wall of the rectum presents longitudinal muscle-fibres for the entire circumference of the canal; as pulled out from the pelvis it appears, in the plates, much too broad at its superior end, thereby distorting it as to length. 49. Middle Hemorrhoidal Arteries, Plate 12.—The ter- minal branches of these arteries, the right and the left, are seen to distribute to the gut at its lateral surfaces. 50. Male and Female Inferior Pelvic Outlets.—The infe- rior outlet of the male pelvis (Plates 9 to 12 inclusive) presents a marked contrast to the same outlet of the female pelvis (Plates 17, 18 and 19). The short transverse diameter and the narrow arch of the ossa pubis in the male give the effect of a greater antero-posterior diameter for the male; this, however, is not the case. Plate 5 represents the inferior outlet of a female pelvis ; this selection was purposely made, because the female pelvic outlet is of more practical importance than the male, while it illustrates, for both sexes, the bone areas afford- ing attachments to muscles and fasciae. Of the muscle attach-