LARYNX* 399 23. Arytenoid Cartilages: Fig. 2, Plate 206; Fig. 2, Plate 207 ; Plate 208 —These two cartilages are located at the supe- rior surface of the signet-portion of the cricoid cartilage. An arytenoid cartilage is pyramidal in form, having : a triangular base, with anterior, postero-external, and postero-internal an- gles ; internal, external, and posterior surfaces ; anterior, pos- tero-external, and postero-internal borders ; and an apex. Of the base: it articulates by the posterior portion of its area (Fig. 2, Plate 208) with the superior surface of the signet-portion of the cricoid cartilage, to which it is held by a capsular and a pos- terior crico-arytenoid ligament ; its anterior angle (Plate 208) is freely movable and affords attachment to the inferior thyro- arytenoid ligament; its postero-external angle (Fig. 2, Plate 207) gives attachment to the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle. Of the surfaces : the posterior affords attachment to the arytenoid muscle (Plate 208) ; the internal (Fig. 1, Plate 208) is a free surface covered by mucous membrane ; the external affords part attachment to the thyro-arytenoid muscle and the su- perior thyro arytenoid ligament. Of the borders : the pos- tero-external (Fig. 2, Plate 207) gives attachment to the lateral crico-arytenoid, the thyro-arytenoid (exterior part), and the aryteno-epiglottidean muscles. 24. Thyro-arytenoid Musele, Fig. 2, Plate 208.— The exte- rior of the exterior portion of this muscle and its thyro-epiglot- tidean fibres (the thyro-epiglottidean muscle) were described (page 397) and illustrated (Fig. 2, Plate 207). The interior por- tion of the muscle bridges from the external surface of the arytenoid cartilage—in the internal wall of the ventricle of the larynx, superiorly to the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament— to the posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage, to one side of its angle, and superiorly to the attachment of the exterior por- tion of the muscle. The interior surfaces of the exterior portion of the muscle, and of the thyro-epiglottidean muscle, present at the interior of the thyroid cartilage. 25. Superior Thyro-arytenoid Ligament.—This ligament, the border of a false vocal cord, bridges from the external surface of an arytenoid cartilage, posteriorly, to the posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage (to one side of the middle of its angle), anteriorly. It is so blended with the inferior