252 TRUNK. mon pulmonary artery ; to the right of the aorta is the vena cava superior. 3. Arch of the Aorta.—This large arterial trunk is pro- jected superiorly from the base of the heart; it arches to the left and posteriorly. It has three portions : the ascending, the* transverse, and the descending. The ascending portion ex- tends, superiorly, from the heart, a little toward the right; it is located between the common pulmonary artery, to the left, and the vena cava superior, to the right. The transverse por- tions before described (page 243) and illustrated (Plate 138). The descending portion continues the transverse portion, mfe- riorly, posteriorly to the root of the left lung. 4. Vena Cava Superior—This large venous trunk passes, inferiorly, along the right side of the ascending portion of the arch of the aorta ; on its way to the right auricle, it receives its investment of pericardium (page 251). 5. Common Pulmonary Artery.—This vessel is projected from the base of the heart, superiorly, and to the left; its car- diac end occupies a plane anteriorly to the ascending portion of the arch of the aorta, between the latter and the appendix of the left auricle. It curves to the right into the concavity of the arch, where it bifurcates into the right and left pulmonary arteries. 6. Left Pulmonary Veins.—These two vessels converge to the left side of the heart, in a plane posteriorly to the appen- dix of the left auricle. 7. Left Pulmonary Artery.—The superior border of this vessel is seen superiorly to, and in a plane anteriorly to, the last-described veins. Dissection.-Unfasten the loops, which hold aside the lungs and flaps of pericardium, to display the anterior surface of the heart and large vessels. Turn the thoracic viscera, en masse, so as to present their posterior surface uppermost. Out away the descending portion of the aorta, sectioning it be- tween the left common carotid and left subclavian arteries. Trim away the posterior portions of the parietal layer of the right and left pleurse ; loop the lungs aside so as to expose the heart, the large vessels, the trachea, ana the right and left bronchi. Trace the posterior of the parietal portion ot tne pericardium to its superior line of reflection to the heart, as the posterior ot the visceral portion of the same. Demonstrate the portions of the heart tiiat contribute to its posterior surface.