186 LOWER EXTREMITY. outer border of the distal end of the tibia. The posterior infe- rior {distal) tibiofibular ligament bridges, obliquely, from the inner lip of the groove (for the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis muscles) on the posterior surface of the distal end of the fibula, to the posterior surface of the distal end of the tibia. Cutting away the last-described ligament the inferior {distal) interosseous tibio-fibular ligament is seen between the opposed surfaces of the bones. Dissection.—Clear the anterior and posterior surfaces of the shafts of the tibia and fibula, and those of the tibio-fibular interosseous ligament between them. Note the areas of the muscle attachments. 2. Mu§cae Attachments to the Shafts of the Tihia and Fibula and to the Interosseous Ligament, Plates 67 and 83.— To their posterior surfaces are attached : the flexor longus digi- torum, the tibialis posticus, the soleus, and the popliteus, to the tibia; the flexor longus pollicis, the tibialis posticus, and the soleus, to the fibula; the tibialis posticus, to the interosseous ligament. To the outer surface of the fibula: the peroneus longus and the peroneus brevis muscles. To the anterior and inner surfaces of the fibula the extensor longus digitorum, peroneus tertius, and flexor proprius pollicis muscles. To the outer surface of the tibia : the tibialis anticus muscle. 3. Tihio-Fibular Interosseous Ligament, Fig. 1, Plate 67; and Plate 83.—This ligament bridges from the inner border of the shaft of the fibula to the outer border of the shaft of the tibia. It presents a distal opening for the transit of the an- terior peroneal artery (page 162 ; Plate 90) ; a proximal one for the anterior tibial artery (page 132 ; Plate 74) ; and in- termediate ones for branches of the anterior tibial artery. Dissection.—Clear the anterior and posterior surfaces of the superior (proximal) tibio-fibular articulation. Preserve the stumps of the attachments of the soleus and biceps muscles, to the fibula ; also, the external lateral and posterior ligaments of the knee-joint. 4. Superior (Proximal) Titoio-Fibular Articulation, Plate 107 ; Fig. 2, Plate 108; Fig. 1, Plate 109.—This joint is formed by the opposing of the proximal end of the fibula to the facet on the distal surface of the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The ligaments are: an anterior and a posterior. The anterior