171 GLUTEAL AND POSTERIOR THIGH REGIONS, of its inner tuberosity ; it also contributes to the posterior lig- ament of the knee-joint. Dissection.—Cut the proximal ends of the great sciatic nerve and the semimembranosus muscle (Plate 97) ; make a distal reflection of the nerve and muscle; cut the nerve to the adductor magnus muscle ; cut the semi- membranosus muscle near its distal attachment (Plate 97). Cut the per- forating arteries and the popliteal artery and its branches, as in Plate 98. Dissect away all arteries of the posterior region of the thigh and popliteal space. Clear the surface of the adductor magnus muscle. Determine the fem- oral opening, and the openings for the perforating branches and terminal por- tion of the profunda femoris artery, through the adductor magnus muscle. Find the anastomotica magna artery and the long saphenous nerve at the inner side of the distal portion of the thigh. 30. Adductor Magnus Muscle, Plate 59 ; Fig. 1, Plate 91 ; Plates 93 to 100, inclusive.—The anterior surface of this mus- cle, described (pages 111 and 119) and illustrated (Plates 61 to 65 inclusive ; and Fig. 2, Plate 66), forms the floor of the ante- rior region of the thigh ; its posterior surface constitutes the floor of the posterior region of the thigh. Its proximal attach- ment is to the exterior of the body and of the anterior ramus of the ischium ; its distal attachment is to the inner side of the external lip of the linea aspera of the femur for its whole length from the trochanter major; it is also attached to the inner condyle of the femur. It is perforated by the femoral artery and vein, and by the perforating branches of the pro- funda femoris artery. 31. Femoral Opening in the Adductor Magnus Muscle, Plates 96, 97, and 98.—The anterior of this was described (page 118) and illustrated (Plates 64 and 65); its posterior view pre- sents in the distal third of the muscle. It transmits, in a dis- tal direction, the femoral artery to become the popliteal ; and in a proximal direction, the popliteal vein to become the fem- oral. The vein is to the outer side of the artery. 32. Openings in the Adductor Magnus Muscle for the Branches and Terminal Portion of the Profunda Femoris Artery, Plates 63, 64, and 98.—Close along the femoral attach- ment of the adductor magnus muscle four openings present, at about equal distances, for the transit of the three perforating branches and the terminal portion of the profunda femoris artery ; muscle branches also perforate the muscle.