THORACIC VISCEEA IN SITU. 243- 1§. Cervical Cardiac Serves.—These nerves to the cardiac plexuses, from the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic nerve, right and left, and from the inferior of the cervical portions of the pneumogastric nerves, right and left, vary in their relations to the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, the innomi- nate, the right and left common carotid, and the right and left subclavian arteries. On the right side, they run, with but few exceptions, posteriorly to the arteries, on their way to the car- diac plexuses ; a variable number of branches pass anteriorly to the same. On the left side, while some of the nerves pass anteriorly to the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, looping inferiorly to it, to reach the cardiac plexuses, the greater number run posteriorly to the aorta. 19. Thoracic Cardiac Nerves.—These nerves are branches of the right and left pneumogastric nerves, inferiorly to the giving off, from those trunks, of the right and left recurrent laryngeal nerves. The latter nerves (especially the left one) contribute, at times, some of the thoracic cardiac branches. The right thoracic cardiac nerves pass posteriorly to the arch of the aorta ; the left, posteriorly to the pulmonary artery. 20. Cardiac Plexuses.—These plexuses, formed by the right and left cervical and thoracic cardiac nerves, are located be- tween the concavity of the aorta, the common and right pulmo- nary arteries, and the anterior surface of the bifurcation of the trachea. (The cardiac plexuses are not illustrated, because they require to be dissected out on specially prepared pieces, which would interfere with the exposure of parts of more practical importance.) 21. Transverse Portion of tlie Arcli of the Aorta and its Branches.—This portion of the arch of the aorta is continued from right to left, and obliquely posteriorly, into the supe- rior of the left half of the thorax. Three large arteries are projected from it superiorly, viz. : to the right, the innomi- nate ; to the left, the left common carotid and the left sub- clavian. 22. Innominate Artery.—This, the largest branch from the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, is projected to the right. It crosses, in a plane anteriorly to the trachea, to a point posteriorly to the right sterno-clavicular articulation,