181 AKTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT. 7. Dorsal Intercuneiform and Cuneo-Cuboid Ligaments. —These ligaments are three in number: two intercuneiform, between the three cuneiform bones ; one cuneo-cuboid, between . the cuboid and the external cuneiform. 8. Dorsal Seapho-Cuneifonn Ligaments, Plates 101 and 103; Fig. 1, Plate 102.—These ligaments, three in number, pass from the internal, middle, and external cuneiform bones to the scaphoid. The internal dorsal scapho-cuneiform liga- ment continues over the inner border of the foot to the plantar region, where it meets the internal plantar scapho-cuneiform ligament. 9. Dorsal Scapho-Cuboid Ligament, Plates 101 and 103. This ligament bridges from the inner side of the cuboid to the scaphoid bone. Dissection.—Section the tendons of the peroneus brevis and longus mus- cles (Plate 103); depress the longus tendon so as to expose its entrance into the groove on the plantar surface of the cuboid bone (Plate 101). Reflect the proximal ends of the peronei muscles to the posterior surface of the fibula, where they may be cut. 10. Tendons of the Peroneus Brevis and the Peroneus Longus Muscles.—These tendons appear along the outer side of the tarsal region of the foot, from the posterior surface of the distal end of the fibula ; they pass to their respective at- tachments, as before described (page 129). Dissection.—Expose the dorsal calcaneocuboid ligament; also, the outer borders of the short and long calcaneo-cuboid ligaments of the plantar region. 11. Dorsal Calcaneo - Cuboid Ligament—This ligament passes from the dorsal surface of the cuboid bone to that of the distal end of the calcaneum. Its fibres are continued upon the outer side of the opposed bones into the plantar region of the foot, where they meet the fibres of the short cal- caneo-cuboid ligament. 12. Dorsal Caleaneo-Seaphoid Ligament.—This ligament bridges from the outer side of the scaphoid to the dorsal sur- face of the distal end of the calcaneum. 13. External Astragalo-Caleaneal Ligament, Plates 101 and 103 ; Pig. 2, Plate 106.-This ligament is located at the outer