135 PLANTAR REGION" OF THE FOOT. 5. Sixth Digital Artery.—This artery (venae comites), branch, of the fifth digital, crosses opposite the inner half of the head of the first metatarsal bone, to become the inner plantar col- lateral digital artery of the pollex digit. 6. Internal Plantar Artery.—The terminal portion of this artery (venae comites) perforates the inner portion of the plantar fascia to the outer side of, and a little distal to, the point of perforation of the first digital nerve ; it accompanies the nerve, along its outer side, and anastomoses with the sixth digital artery. 7. First Digital Artery and Its Anastomotic Branch.— This artery (venae comites), branch of the external plantar, perforates the outer portion of the plantar fascia, near the outer border of the middle portion of the plantar fascia. It gives off an anastomotic branch to the second digital artery. The first digital artery is continued to the fifth digit, as its outer plantar collateral digital artery. 8. Sixth Digital Nerve.—This nerve perforates the fascia near the point where the first digital artery emerges. It ac- companies the artery, along its inner side, becoming the outer plantar collateral digital nerve of the fifth digit. 9. Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Digital Nerves.—These four nerves present, for a portion of their course, in the meta- tarsal region, between the slips of the middle portion of the plantar fascia. 10. Branches of the Anastomotic Artery from the Inter- nal Plantar Artery.—These arteries (venae comites) are seen, for a part of their course, at the inner sides of the slips of the middle portion of the plantar fascia, accompanying the por- tions of the digital nerves there lodged. 11. Plantar Collateral Digital Nerves.—These nerves emerge, from the dorsal surface of the superficial transverse ligament, into the subcutaneous tissue of the lateral digital surfaces. + 12. Plantar Collateral Digital Arteries, Plates 76 and 77. —These arteries (venae comites) appear in the subcutaneous