POSTERIOR OF ELBOW, FOREARM, HAND, AND DIGITS. 305 32. Dorsal Digital Arteries.—These arteries (vense comites) are six in number : the first and second, from the radial artery ; the third, fourth, and fifth from the distal posterior carpal arch ; the sixth is the continuation of the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery. The first has a distal course along the outer side of the first metacarpal bone; the second to the fifth, inclusive, have a distal course upon the posterior sur- faces of the dorsal interosseous muscles ; the sixth has a dis- tal course along the inner side of the fifth metacarpal bone. 33. Perforating Arteries.—These arteries (vense comites) are three in number ; they are branches of the deep palmar arch (page 233 ; Plates 132 and 133), which emerge, posteriorly, between the proximal portions of the metacarpal attachments of the second, third, and fourth dorsal interosseous muscles ; they anastomose with the third, fourth, and fifth dorsal digital arteries. Dissection.—Make the skin incisions 8, 8, 8, 8, 8 of Fig. ]2 (page 295), and reflect the flaps of skin from the dorsal surfaces of the digits. Display the distributions of the dorsal collateral digital arteries and nerves, also those of the dorsal branches of the palmar collateral digital arteries and nerves. 34. Dorsal Collateral Digital Arteries, Plate 169 ; Fig. 1, Plate 170.—These arteries (vense comites) are ten in number, two to each digit; they distribute, respectively, to the dorsal halves of the lateral surfaces of the phalangeal segments of the digits. The first, at the outer side of the first digit, is the con- tinuation of the first dorsal digital artery ; the second to ninth, inclusive, result from the bifurcation of the dorsal digital ar- teries, second to fifth, inclusive ; the tenth is the continuation of the sixth digital artery. 35. Dorsal Collateral Digital Nerves, Plate 164 ; Fig. 1, Plate 170.—These nerves, described (page 296), distribute to the digits as do the last-described arteries. 36. Dorsal Branches of the Palmar Collateral Digital Arteries, Fig. 1, Plate 170.—These arteries, of a digit, appear posteriorly at the sides of the phalangine segment; they have a distal course along the dorsal halves of the lateral surfaces of the phalangine and phalangette segments, and distribute to the dorsal surface of the digit and to the matrix of the nail.