HEAD AND NECK. 368 bone, and winds to the anterior surface of the external third of the latter, on its way to the antero-lateral area of the face (Fig. 2, Plate 182 ; Plate 183). A short distance from its origin it gives off the ascending palatine artery (Plate 196), which has a superior course, to the point where it disappears internally to the stylo-glossus muscle. 45. Occipital Artery.—This artery (venae comites), the first external branch of the external carotid, has a superior course, anteriorly to the internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and hypoglossal nerve ; it disappears internally to the pos- terior belly of the digastric muscle, and reappears as before described (page 357) and illustrated (Plates 192, 194 and 196). 46. Posterior Auricular Artery, Plate 196.—This artery (venae comites), the second external branch of the external carotid, is given off internally to the parotid gland ; it has a superior and posterior course, and sends branches to the paro- tid gland, the auricle of the ear, the scalp, and, by the stylo- mastoid foramen, to the internal ear. 47. Stylo-glossus, Superior Constrictor, and Middle Con- strictor Muscles, Plates 194 and 196.—Portions of these three muscles present in the space bounded : posteriorly, by the ex- ternal carotid artery ; anteriorly, by the hyo-glossus muscle and submaxillary gland ; and superiorly, by the inferior max- illary bone. 4§. Glossopharyngeal Xerve, Plate 196. — A portion of this nerve runs externally to the superior constrictor muscle, between the stylo-glossus and middle constrictor muscles, to the point where it passes internally to the posterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle. Dissection. —Place the block under the right lateral surface of the head, and dissect the left antero-lateral area of the neck, from the stage of the dis- section presented in Plate 194 to that in Plate 196, following the steps given from the close of paragraph 28 to the close of paragraph 48. 49. Left Common Carotid Artery, Plates 197 and 198.— This artery differs from the right in being projected into the neck from the interior of the thorax, at a point posteriorly to