93 ABDOMINAL VISCERA OUT OF THE BODY. at the inferior limit of the hilus of the spleen ; the vasa brevia to the stomach are supplied by branches of the splenic artery opposite the hilus. The slicing away of the spleen tissue, from the anterior half of its internal surface, demonstrates the penetration of vessels into the viscus, and determines by their distribution three portions to the organ : a superior, a middle, ■and an inferior. Its tissue is darker and much less dense than that of the liver. Dissection.—Let the kidneys, the suprarenal capsules and the portions of the aorta and vena cava, as they were removed from the body (page 79), be laid out in their normal relations, upon a dissecting board. Cut the renal and suprarenal arteries at the aorta, their veins at the vena cava. Clear the sur- faces of the suprarenal capsules and kidneys, and determine the relations of the two organs to each other; after which they may be separated. 23. Suprarenal Capsules, Fig. 1, Plate 54.—These viscera were described (page 71) and illustrated (Plate 38) in situ. A capsule will average about one drachm and a half in weight; it is triangular in shape, slightly concave at its base, for appli- cation to the convexity of the kidney, and presents at its an- terior face a hilus for the entrance and exit of its vessels, etc. Dissection.—Determine the relations of the vessels and the ureter, that present at the internal border of the kidney. Grasp the kidney in the left hand, its internal border to the palm, its external convex border projecting between the thumb and fingers: as held, section with a scalpel its fibrous capsule along the convexity of the organ, then peel it off of its anterior and posterior surfaces to its internal border, where it will be found to pass into the hilus; trim the capsule away close to the hilus. Trace the vessels into a kidney as follows: place the kidney upon its posterior surface (Fig. 4, Plate 54), with the renal vein uppermost; hold taut the vessels and ureter, and cut away the kidney tissue from the internal to the external border of the anterior face of the organ, down to the plane of the renal vein ; this will deter- mine the course of both the veins and the arteries. To follow a ureter into a kidney, place the organ upon its anterior surface (Fig. 3, Plate 54), and pin the ureter and kidney taut ; slice off the posterior half of the kidney, from the internal to the external border, down to the plane of the walls of the pelvis and the infundibula. Demonstrate the three infundibula which converge to the pelvis of the organ : the superior, the middle, and the inferior; open the infundibula so as to examine their terminations in the calices, which surround the apices of the pyramids of Malpighi. 24. Kidneys, Figs. 2, 3, and 4, Plate 54.—These organs were described (page 71) and illustrated (Plate 38) in situ. A kidney will average about four and one-half ounces in weight.