373 ANTEROLATERAL AREA OF THE NECK. 65. Thoracic (or L,eft Lymphatic) Duct, Fig. 2, Plate 140 ; Plates 195, 197, and 198.—The cervical portion of this duct, be- fore described (page 249), is projected from the interior of the thorax into the neck, between the oesophagus and the first part of the left subclavian artery, and anteriorly to the left longus colli muscle. It follows the curve of, and runs supe- riorly to, the artery, crossing anteriorly to the vertebral and inferior tigroid arteries ; opposite the internal third of the left scalenus anticus muscle, it curves inferiorly, anteriorly to the left superficial cervical and suprascapular arteries, to pass to its emptying into the left subclavian vein, externally to the confluence of the latter with the left internal jugular vein. «6. First Portion of the L.eft Subclavian Artery, Plates 138, 195, 197, and 198.—This portion of the left artery differs from that of the right artery (page 369): first, it arises from the left of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta (page 244; Plate 138); second, it is longer, and is projected, supe- riorly, into the neck, from the interior of the thorax. 67. <E§ophagu§, Plates 197 and 198.—The cervical portion of this muscular canal, located posteriorly to the trachea, pre- sents its left-lateral border externally to it and the left recur- rent laryngeal nerve (page 244 ; Plate 138). Dissection.—Eeflect (Plate 197), inferiorly, the stump of the left submaxil- lary gland with its duct; expose the left submaxillary ganglion of the sympa- thetic, with its branches from the left gustatory nerve. 6§. Left Submaxillary Ganglion, Plate 197.—This cephalic sympathetic ganglion is lodged at the external surface of the superior and posterior portion of the hyo-glossus muscle. It receives branches from the left gustatory nerve. Dissection.—Section (Plate 197) the inferior thyroid veins and arteries, the trachea, the right and left recurrent laryngeal nerves, and the oesophagus. Raise the trachea and oesophagus, anteriorly and superiorly, dissecting them from the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the cervical vertebrae, and the longus colli muscles ; continue the reflection superiorly, by dissecting the pharynx from the bodies of the cervical vertebras, and the rectus capitis anticus major muscles, as far as the base of the cranium. Reflect, superiorly, the right and left internal carotid arteries, internal jugular veins, pneumogastric, sympathetic, hypoglossal, glossopharyngeal and spinal accessory nerves, by dissecting them