66 37. Superior Pancreaticoduodenal Artery, Plate 36.— Carving inferiorly, from its origin, this artery (vena comes) passes along the concavity of the duodenum and the head of the pancreas, to anastomose with the inferior pancreatico-duo- denal, branch of the superior mesenteric artery. 38. Inferior Pancreaticoduodenal Artery.—This artery (vena comes) passes from the right of the superior mesenteric artery, where its trunk lies posterior to the head of the pan- creas. It is directed, inferiorly and to the right, between the pancreas and the oblique portion of the duodenum, to the right of the superior mesenteric vein. Between the pancreas and the duodenum it anastomoses with the last described artery. 39. Spleen, Plates 35 and 36.—For the present, the dissec- tor should determine the location of the spleen as it caps the fundus of the stomach ; its relations to the tail of the pan- creas ; and its lodgment anterior and external to the left su- prarenal capsule and the superior half of the left kidney. 40. Splenic Artery.—This trunk, branch of the cceliac axis, runs to the left, posterior to the superior border of the body and tail of the pancreas. (In the plate the artery is somewhat displaced above the organ, by the sagging of the pancreas and the raising of the artery to clean it.) In its course the artery distributes branches to the pancreas, and the gastro- epiploica sinistra is given off from it. Thence it continues to distribute the splenic branches proper, from which, in turn,^ the vasa brevia or its gastric branches pass to the fundus of the stomach. Dissection.—Hook the superior border of the pancreas anteriorly, to discover the splenic vein; clean the same, noting its contributing branches, etc. 41. Splenic Vein, Plate 48—This vein will be found poste- rior to the body and tail of the pancreas, running to the right to meet the superior mesenteric vein to form the vena porta?. In its course this vein will be seen to receive the trunk of the inferior mesenteric vein. 42. Gastro-Epiploica Siniitra Artery, Plate 36.—This ar tery (vena comes), branch of the splenic, curves to the right,