VISCERA OF THE THORAX OUT OF THE BODY. 255 Dissection. —Examine the anatomical elements entering, and coming from, the lungs, which constitute the roots of those organs. 19. Roots of the Lungs.—The following parts, at the in- ternal surface of a lung, collectively, form the, so-called, root of a lung : first, a bronchus and its divisions : second, a pulmo- | nary artery and its branches ; third, two pulmonary veins with their tributary branches ; fourth, the branches of a bron- chial artery ; fifth, nerves from the pulmonary plexuses ; sixth, lymphatic glands receiving lymphatic vessels from the organ ; seventh, connective tissue lodged between the anatomical ele- j ments of the root of the organ. Of these parts : the branches of the pulmonary and the bronchial arteries, and the nerves from the pulmonary plexuses, enter the lung ; the branches converging to the two pulmonary veins, and the lymphatic | vessels emerge from the lung. LUNGS. Dissection.—Section (Plate 142) the right and left pulmonary arteries, and the pulmonary veins, right and left; then separate the heart from the trachea and bronchi. Cut the pulmonary arteries, veins, and nerves close to the lungs, right and left. 1. Lungs, Plate 143.—These organs, two in number, a right and a left, weigh from 36 to 42 ounces, varying according to sex ; the right being about 2 ounces heavier than the left. They have a mottled appearance, purple and black (pink in the young) ; and they crepitate on pressure between the fingers. The right lung is larger than the left, because the left lung, in situ, has to be so shaped as to admit of the lodgement of the heart, which occupies much more of the left than of the right half of the thorax. Dissection.—Place the lungs on a dissecting board-with their anterior sur- faces uppermost. | 2. Anterior Surface of the Lungs, Fig. 1, Plate 143.— I The anterior surface of these organs was referred to (page 241) and illustrated (Plates 137 and 138). Restored to their normal relations this surface presents: the right lung, three lobes; the left, two lobes. The lobes of a lung are marked off by fissures in the substance of the organ, which do not penetrate its entire