INTRODUCTION. 9 Arteries—The arteries, when injected with substances such as plaster, wax, or rubber, are readily recognized, but when not so injected, they appear as flattened empty tubes. The smaller arteries are, as a rule, accompanied by two veins, called venae comites, the larger ones by a single venous trunk. Dissection.—The arterial trunks of a region should be first cleared of areolar tissue and sheath investitures; then their primary branches determined in the order of their size. All branches of distribution should be followed to the parts to which they distribute, and the anastomoses of branches should be recognized, where possible. Veins.—The veins of the body are subcutaneous and com- ites. The subcutaneous veins are lodged, as their name indi- cates. The comites or deep veins accompany arteries; some of the deep veins are not comites. The venous channels (sinuses) within the cranium are not comites of arteries. Dissection.—With a few exceptions, which will be noted, the subcutaneous veins do not require the dissector's attention; the ven£e comites of the small arteries do not warrant preservation, as the recognition of the artery carries with it the appreciation of its companion veins ; the vence comites of the small arteries may therefore be stripped away from them in the cleaning of the latter. The large venous trunks run contiguous to the arteries, one to each, and their relations should be carefully noted; special directions will be given, when and how they are to be removed. In dissecting arteries and veins the same rule Holds as with muscles, viz.: that the vessels should not be raised by the forceps, but only the adventitious tissue and vence comites (in the case of small arteries) are to be drawn away and cut from the surf ace of the vessel (see the figure illustrating the cleaning of a muscle, Fig. 6, Plate 2), the knife cutting parallel with the vessel, never across it. Nerves.—The nerve-trunks of a region will be found to run parallel with its vessels. If not immediately contiguous, they are not far removed. In appreciating a nerve it must be re- membered that it is either motor, sensory, or mixed (contain- ing both motor and sensory fibres). If a nerve is motor, its distribution will be to muscle only ; if sensory only, it ends at an organ of special sense or the skin ; if a mixed nerve, it will be found to have a deep distribution of its motor filaments to the muscles, and a superficial distribution of its sensory fila- ments to the skin. With the exception of a few nerves in the region of the head, which are either specially sensory or specially motor, the nerves of the body are mixed, having a deep muscle and a superficial skin distribution.