TRUNK. 84 15. Sphincter Vaginae Muscle—This muscle is the ana- logue of the accelerator urinse muscle in the male. Examining oue-half of this (so-called) sphincter, it will be found to extend from a broad posterior extremity, at the angle of continuity of the bases of the perineal fascia and triangular ligament; at the median line, posteriorly, some of its fibres converge with its fellow of the opposite side, to the tendinous centre of the per- ineum. Passing anteriorly, it forms a plane of the labium majus, at the side of the vaginal orifice, and narrows as it advances ; finally, it winds over the lateral surface of the cor- pus cavernosum of the clitoris, on the dorsum of which it is attached. The relations of the halves of the sphincter vaginae muscle to the clitoris determine its being the analogue of the accelerator urinse muscle. See Male Perineum, page 19. 16. Tendinous Centre of the Perineum—This point is situated more posteriorly in the female ; it is, as in the male, the common point of convergence of the muscles and fasciae of the perineum. See Male Perineum, page 19. IT. Ischio-Cavernosus Muscle (Erector Clitoridis).—It is less developed than its analogue in the male, otherwise it is similar to it. See Male Perineum, page 19. Dissection.—Section the ischio-cavernosus muscle (Plate 14) at its ischial attachment, and reflect it anteriorly. 18. Cms of the Clitoris.—Same attachments and course as the cms of the male penis, though much smaller. See Male Perineum, page 20. Dissection.—Section the superficial transversa perinsei muscle (Plate 14) and reflect it over the ischial tuberosity. Expose the muscular branch of the superficial posterior perineal nerve beneath the muscle. 19. Muscle Branch of the Superficial Posterior Perineal Nerve.—This branch is given off as the trunk of the nerve passes to its superficial plane of distribution. It distributes : exteriorly to the triangular ligament, to the superficial trans- versus peringei, sphincter vaginae, and ischio-cavernosus mus- cles ; interiorly to the triangular ligament, to the deep trans- versus perinaei, and the constrictor urethrse muscles. Dissection.—Section the halves of the sphincter vaginae muscle (Plate 14) and reflect them anteriorly, preserving their anterior extremities in relation