ANTERIOR OF THIGH. 121 52. Obturator Externus Muscle, Plates 59, 64, 65 and 66.— This muscle is attached, internally, to the exterior face of the internal and inferior borders of the obturator foramen, and from the internal half of the obturator membrane (Plate 59); its course is externally, its tendon passing posterior to the hip-joint (Fig. 1, Plate 66). 53. Obturator Merve, Plate 66.—The posterior portion of this nerve sometimes perforates the obturator externus muscle ; more commonly, the anterior and posterior portions of the nerve form a single trunk, which passes out of the pelvis su- perior to the muscle. Dissection.—Clean the exterior of the anterior portion of the capsular liga- ment of the hip-joint. Cut the ilial attachment of the rectus femoris muscle close to the bone. 54. Capsular Ligament of the Hip-joiut, Fig. 2, Plate 66, and Plates 64 and 65.—The anterior portion of the capsular liga- ment of the hip-joint has its proximal attachment at the ante- rior and inner surfaces of the rim of the cotyloid cavity of the os innominatum and its distal attachment to the trochanters and the anterior intertrochanteric line of the femur. This area of the capsular ligament presents three thick longitudinal por- tions, which may be designated as follows: the ilio-femoral ligament, the ilio-femoral band, and the pubio-femoral band. The ilio-femoral ligament has its proximal attachment at the antero-inner border of the rim of the cotyloid cavity of the os innominatum, and the superior surface of the wall of the coty- loid cavity, up to the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium ; its distal attachment is to the inner portion of the an- terior intertrochanteric line. The ilio-femoral band has its proximal attachment to the superior surface of the wall of the cotyloid cavity, extending up to the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium ; its distal attachment is to the outer por- tion of the anterior intertrochanteric line of the femur upon the face of the great trochanter. These two fibrous bands, thus diverging inferiorly, form an inverted Y-shaped ligamentous structure, which has been designated by Bigelow as the Y liga- ment of the hip-joint ("The Mechanism of Dislocation and Fracture of the Hip, etc." By Professor Henry J. Bigelow, M.D., pages 17 and 18). In the interval between the fibrous