421 PARTS OF THE BRAIN. 24. Po§terior Cornu of a Lateral Ventricle.—This is the posterior ventricular extension into the occipital lobe of a cere- bral hemisphere. Its internal wall presents the intra-ven- tricular projection of a cerebral convolution, which is called the hippocampus minor. At the floor or inferior wall of its ante- rior portion, a prominence appears, the eminentia collateralis. Dissection.—Section the corpus callosum (Plate 216) ; reflect its anterior portion, thereby exposing the cavity of the fifth ventricle of the brain (Fig. 1, Plate 217) ; reflect its posterior portion, by cutting it from the superior surface of the fornix, as in Fig. 1, Plate 217. 25. Septum Lucidum and Fifth Ventricle of the Brain, Plates 217 and 218.—The septum lucidum as sectioned demon- strates its right and left, antero-posterior, lamina, of white neu- ral tissue, which enclose a median-line space, the fifth ven- tricle. 26. Fornix, Plates 216, 217, and 218.—This is an antero- posterior sheet of white neural tissue, which bridges the median line. Its parts are : a body, two anterior pillars and the cor- pora mammillaria, two posterior pillars and the corpora fim- briata. The body and posterior pillars, are in the cavities of the lateral ventricles (Fig. 1, Plate 217) where they form a tri- angular-shaped plane ; its apex is directed anteriorly, and it is reflected interiorly, as its anterior pillars ; its borders are free and are internally to. and parallel with, the right and left choroid plexus; its base, for its central portion, fuses with the splenium of the corpus callosum, while its lateral portions are its posterior pillars, a right and a left ; the latter curve in- teriorly, and externally, to enter the middle cornua of the lat- eral ventricles. 27. Choroid Plexus of a Lateral Ventricle of the Brain, Plate 216 ; Fig. 1, Plate 217.-—This is a plexus of vessels, which is located in the floor of the cavity, and in the middle cornu, of a lateral ventricle of the brain. In the cavity it is externally to, and parallel with, a free border of the body of the fornix. Anteriorly it converges to, and disappears inferi- orly and posteriorly to, an anterior pillar of the fornix; poste- riorly, it curves inferiorly and externally, along the external border of a posterior pillar of the fornix, to enter the middle cornu of a lateral ventricle.