HEAD AND NECK. 374 from the right and left rectus capitis anticus major muscles as far as the base of the cranium. Saw, along the section line in Plate 189, the right and left lateral walls of the cranium. Drag the mass of reflected parts (trachea and larynx, oesophagus and pharynx, right and left arteries, veins and nerves), suj^erioiiy, over the inferior maxillary bone ; then pass the saw blade in be- tween these parts, anteriorly, and the vertebral column and right and left rectus capitis anticus major and minor muscles, posteriorly (the saw should lodge posteriorly to the styloid processes of the right and left temporal bones). Saw, superiorly, through the base of the cranium, so as to enter the previous saw cuts of its lateral Avails (Plate 189). Remove the anterior portion of the head with the appended parts of the neck, and keep the same moist for subse- quent dissection. The saw cut through the base of the cranium will have cut the superior ends of the rectus capitis anticus major and minor muscles, carry- ing away their superior attachments upon the anterior portion, while it will section the basilar process of the occipital bone parallel with the anterior sur- face of the first cervical (atlas) vertebra. Clear the inferior portions of the right and left rectus capitis anticus major muscles. 69. Rectus Capitis Anticus Major Muscle, Plates 189, 194, 196, 197, and 199.—This muscle (its superior portion was cut away by the vertical section of the cranium) is located ante- riorly to the transverse processes and pedicles, of the five supe- rior cervical vertebrae, and the longus colli muscle. It is at- tached : inferiorly, to the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the six superior cervical vertebrae ; superiorly, to the exterior of the basilar process of the occipital bone (Plate 189). Dissection.—Eemove (Plate 198) the inferior portions of the right and left rectus capitis anticus major muscles and clear the anterior surfaces of the right longus colli muscle, the inferior portion of the left rectus capitis anticus minor muscle, and part of the left rectus capitis lateralis muscle. Dissect away (Plate 198) the inferior portion of the right rectus capitis anticus minor muscle and expose the right rectus capitis lateralis muscle. 70. Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor Muscle, Plates 189, 198, and 199.—This muscle (its superior end was cut away by the vertical section of the base of the cranium) is attached : infe- riorly, to the superior surface of the anterior portion of the lateral mass of the first cervical vertebra (atlas); superiorly, to the exterior surface of the basilar process of the occipital bone. 71. Rectus Capitis Lateralis.—This muscle is attached : inferiorly, to the superior surface of the transverse process of