213 ANTERIOR OP ELBOW, FOREARM, AND HAND. proximal portion of the flexor carpi radialis muscle. Its prox- imal attachments are to the anterior surface of the internal con- dyle of the humerus, proximally to the compound flexor attachment thereto, and to the inner side of the coronoid pro- cess of the ulna ; its distal end passes to the outer side of the shaft of the radius, a little proximal to its middle. Dissection.—Display the boundaries of the anconeal space, and the divis- ion of the same, into inner and outer portions, by the distal end of the biceps muscle. 24. Anconeal Space, Plates 125 and 126.—This space is lo- cated anteriorly to the elbow-joint, including the adjoining quarters of the arm and forearm ; it is the analogue of the popliteal space of the lower extremity. The distal boundaries of the space are formed by the proximal, and opposite, bor- ders of the pronator radii teres and supinator longus muscles. Its proximal boundaries are not as well defined, extending as they do to about three finger-breadths from the elbow-joint T on the outer side is the supinator longus muscle; on the inner side is the inner intermuscular septum, with the distal end of the inner head of the triceps muscle, posteriorly to it. The distal end of the biceps muscle, as projected into the proximal por- tion of the forearm, divides the anconeal space into two por- tions : the inner and the outer. 25. Inner Portion of the Anconeal Space.—This is bounded at its outer side by the biceps muscle and its tendon ; at its inner side by the pronator radii teres muscle and the inner intermuscular septum. DissECTiON.-Insert a hook into the proximal border of the pronator radii teres muscle and turn it off inferiorly (Plate 126). Expose the nerves and ves- sels m the inner portion of the anconeal space ; clear the muscle area of its floor. 26. Median Bferve. A part of the trunk of this nerve has a longitudinal course through the inner portion of the anco- neal space; its proximal end appears from the posterior sur- lace of the inner side of the biceps muscle, its distal end passes into the forearm between the superficial and deep por- tions of the pronator radii teres muscle.