419 PARTS OF THE BRAIN". Dissection.—Eemove, by an anteroposterior section, the vertex portion of the right cerebral hemisphere, to correspond with the sectioned left hemi- sphere in Plate 215. 16. Centrum Ovale of Vieussens, Plate 215.—This is the sectioned plane of the hemispheres of the cerebrum, at the level of the corpus callosum (of which one-half is shown in Plate 215). It presents: the circumferential grey neural tis- sue, in the walls of the sulci between the convolutions ; the central mass of white neural tissue; and the commissural character of the corpus callosum. 17. Corpus Cai9o§um, Plates 214 to 218, inclusive.—This is a transverse commissure of neural tissue (white) between the hemispheres of the cerebrum. It is located at the level of the floor of the longitudinal fissure, and extends, right and left, from a median-line raphe (Plates 215 and 216). At about the centre of the mid-line surfaces of the cerebral hemispheres, it occupies nearly one-half of their antero-posterior diameter. Its portions receiving special names are : its anterior point of reflection, inferiorly, the genu (Plates 215 and 216); its inferior portion, from the anterior reflection, the rostrum (Plate 214) ; its posterior portion, the splenium (Plates 215 and 216 ; Fig. 1, Plate 217 ; Fig. 2, Plate 218). Dissection.—Section through the corpus callosum, antero-posteriorly, on either side of the median-line, as in Plate 216, thereby opening the roofs of the cavities of the right and left lateral ventricles; introduce the handle of the scalpel into the openings made, and turn off the roofs of the cavities, and of the right and left anterior and posterior cornua, externally; trim away the displaced portions of the corpus callosum, circumferentially, as in Plate 216. Slice off an additional part of the occipital lobe of the right hemisphere of the cerebrum (Plate 216). 18. Right and Left Lateral, or First and Seeond Ventricles of the Brain, Plates 216, 217, and 218.—These intracerebral cavities are located, antero-posteriorly, at either side of the median line. The parts of a lateral ventricle are : the cavity at the raid-portion of a hemisphere of the cerebrum ; an ante- rior cornu or projection of the ventricle into the frontal lobe ; si posterior cornu, or extension of the ventricle into the occipital lobe; and a middle cornu (Fig. 2, Plate 218) or continuation of the ventricle into the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The cavity