21(5 UPPER EXTREMITY. this nerve lies parallel with, and to the outer side of, the radial nerve. It gives off two branches: an outer, to the extensor carpi radialis brevior muscle ; an inner, to the supinator brevis muscle. 38. Radial Recurrent Artery.—This artery (venae comites) is given off from the outer side of the radial artery ; it crosses upon the anterior surface of the tendon of the biceps muscle, and is projected into the outer portion of the anconeal space, through which it has a proximal course parallel with, and posteriorly to, the radial nerve. Branches from it distribute to contiguous muscles. 39. Superior Profunda Artery.—The distal end of this ar- tery (vense comites) presents at the proximal limit of the outer portion of the anconeal space, accompanying the musculo- spiral nerve. It anastomoses with the last-described artery. 40. Muscles Contributing to tlie Floor of the Outer Por- tion of tlie Anconeal Space.—The outer border of the distal portion of the brachialis anticus muscle, the anterior surfaces of the proximal portions of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior muscles, and a part of the anterior surface of the supinator brevis muscle, contribute to form the floor of this portion of the anconeal space. Dissection.—Eeplace the pronator radii teres and the supinator longus muscles, in situ. Clear the three forearm intertendinous spaces, at the distal third of' the anterior of the region (Plate 125) ; loop the tendons of the pal- maris longus and the flexor carpi ulnaris muscles to the inner side. Find the radial artery (vena? comites), the median nerve, the ulnar artery (vense comites), and the ulnar nerve ; display the portions of the pronator quadratus, flexor lon- gus pollicis, and flexor sublimis digitorum muscles, which form the floors ot these spaces. 41. Forearm Intertendinous Spaces, Plates 125 and 127.— Three intertendinous spaces present at the distal third of the anterior of the forearm: the outer, the middle, and the inner. The outer intertendinous space has the tendons of the su- pinator longus and tlie extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis mus- cles to the outer side ; and the tendon of the flexor carpi radi- alis muscle to the inner side ; it contains the distal end of the forearm portion of the radial artery (venge comites), which