UPPER EXTREMITY. 226 flexor longus pollicis muscles ; the trunk and branches pass to a deep plane, posteriorly to the flexor sublimis digitoruni muscle. 76. Nerve to tlie Flexor Sublimis Digitorum Muscle.—This nerve is given off from the inner side of the median ; it enters the proximal portion of the muscle. 77. Ulnar Artery.—The proximal end of this artery (venae comites) is exposed from its origin, to where it passes to the pos- terior surface of the flexor sublimis digitoruni muscle. In this portion of its course it gives off the anterior and the posterior ulnar recurrent (from its inner side) and the common interos- seous (from its outer side). Dissection.—Section the anterior annular ligament (Plate 127) and cut it away at its attachments ; note the attachments to it, of the pollex and minim eminence muscles. Section the following parts (Plate 127) : the ulnar and the superficialis volte arteries, also, the anastomosing branch from the superfirial palmar arch to the second digital artery ; the first and second palmar collateral digital nerves; the second, third, and fourth digital nerves ; the superficial palmar nerve from the ulnar nerve. Reflect the superficial palmar arch ami its digital branches ; also, the digital nerves upon and between the digits. Clear away the digital sheaths of the flexor tendons. Clear the anterior surface of the flexor sublimis digitorum muscle, tracing its tendons through the carpal, metacarpal, and digital regions. 78. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum Musele, Plates 121,128, and 129.—This muscle forms the second muscle plane of the* an- terior of the forearm. Its proximal attachments are: to tli<> humerus, by the compound flexor attachment to the internal condyle ; to the ulna, at the inner side of the anterior surface of its coronoid process; to the radius, at the oblique line on its anterior surface. The muscle separates into four portions, each of which has a tendon ; the tendons cross the carpal region, posteriorly to the anterior annular ligament; from ttiere, the four are projected into the palmar fossa of the hand, from which they are continued upon the palmar surfaces of the phalanges and phalangines of the digits, second to fifth, in- clusive. Between the humeral and ulnar attachments, on the inner side, and the radial, on the outer side, a fibrous edge of the muscle bridges: to the posterior surface of this the median nerve, and the anterior interosseous nerve and its branches,