195 ANTERIOE OF THORAX, AXILLA, AND ARM. Dissection.—Trace the subcutaneous veins of the anterior of the arm and elbow. 6. Cephalic Vein.—This vein has a longitudinal and proxi- mal course, in the outer half of the anterior of the arm. It re- sults from the confluence of the radial and median-cephalic veins. At its proximal end it perforates the fascia at the intermuscu- lar space between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles. 7. Basilic Vein.—This vein is subcutaneous for the distal third of the inner half of the anterior of the arm. At its dis- tal end it is formed by the joining of the ulnar and the median- basilic veins ; at its proximal end it perforates the superficial fascia, at about the middle of the inner side of the arm. 8. Median Vein.—This vessel appears at the middle of the proximal third of the anterior surface of the forearm, where it bi- furcates into the median-cephalic and the median-basilic veins. Dissection.—Find the cutaneous nerves of the anterior and inner side of the arm. 9. Internal Cutaneous Nerve.—This nerve perforates the fascia of the arm, in company with the basilic vein ; it has a distal course posteriorly to the basilic vein, and continues into the ulnar side of the forearm ; a branch runs along the outer side of the basilic vein, continuing into the forearm posteriorly to the median-basilic vein. 10. Small Internal Cutaneous Nerve.—This nerve comes through the fascia near the exit of the internal cutaneous nerve ; it distributes to the skin of the distal half of the inner side of the arm. 11. Axillary Fascia.—This is that portion of the superficial fascia, which bridges between the folds of the axilla. It is per- forated by the intercosto-humeral (second intercostal) and the lateral cutaneous branches of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth intercostal nerves. 12. Intercosto-Humeral Nerve.—This nerve is the lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve, which per- forates the axillary fascia and communicates with the lateral cutaneous branch of the third intercostal nerve; it supplies the skin of the proximal half of the inner side of the arm.