146 LOWER EXTREMITY. 59. Adductor Pollicis Muscle, Plates 75, 81, and Fig. 1, Plate 82 —This muscle lias its proximal attachment at the plantar surface of the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones and the contiguous portion of the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. It takes an oblique course to the outer surface of the base of the phalanx of the pollex digit, its fibres running parallel with those of the outer head c/the flexor brevis pollicis muscle ; it contributes to the com- pound flexor brevis pollicis tendon (page 147). 60. Flexor Brevis Pollicis Huscle, Plates 77 to 81, in- clusive.—This muscle has an inner and an outer portion, or head, determined by the plantar surface of the muscle being furrowed (Plate 81), for the transit of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle (Plates 77 to 80, inclusive). The inner portion of the muscle has its proximal attachment to the ex- pansion of the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle (page 145); as it advances to its distal end it fuses with the tendon of the abductor pollicis muscle (page 137). The outer portion has its proximal attachment to the cuboid bone and the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. The two portions form a muscle upon the plantar surface of the first metatarsal bone ; opposite the head of the bone, it divides into two distal tendons which are united by fibrous tissue. The distal attachment of this muscle is by a compound tendon, which is described at page 147. DissECTioN.-Section the nerve to the flexor brevis minimi digiti muscle (Plate 81) ; detach the proximal attachments of the muscle and reflect it to its distal end, where it may be cut (Fig. 1, Plate 82). Cut the slips of the trans- versa pedis muscle from their metatarsal attachments; note its nerve and cut it close to the muscle ; turn off the muscle over the pollex digit. Cut the digital arteries (Plate 81) and clear the plantar collateral digital arteries from the lateral digital surfaces. Detach the proximal end of the adductor pollicis muscle ; turn over its outer border so as to determine the entrance of its nerve at its dorsal surface ; follow the nerve to its origin from the external plantar nerve, then cut it close to the muscle ; continue the reflection of the muscle upon the pollex digit. 61. Nerve to the Adductor Pollicis Muscle, Fig. 1, Plate 82. —This nerve is given off from that portion of the deep branch of the external plantar nerve which is situated on the dorsal surface of the adductor pollicis muscle.