10 INTRODUCTION. DissncTioN.-In exposing a nerve it should be first isolated for a sliort portion of its course, as with a subcutaneous nerve (see Fig. 4, Plate 2); then raise the nerve taut with the forceps (see Fig. 5, Plate 2), and with the sharp- pointed scalpel, held with its edge from you and cutting parallel with the nerve, strip out the nerve from the fibrous tissue, in which it is imbedded ; as soon as enough of the nerve has been freed, it should be held in the fingers of the left hand and its stripping out continued. Observe the giving off of branches, those to the muscles, those communicating with contiguous nerves, and those to the skin, as the case may be. All the branches of a nerve should be traced to the parts, to which they distribute ; the most delicate nerves, when once stripped out, will bear a great deal of handling, and the completeness of a dissection will more than reward the extra pains, taken to preserve them. The dissector, in his general work, will be able to find, with but few excep- tions all the nerves shown in the plates. In a few of the plates, not original (Plate 33), the nerves were dissected out after the regional sections had been preserved, for a long time, in dilute nitric acid. Lymphatic Glands.—Lymphatic glands are to be found in given situations in the body ; when large they are evidence of a pathological condition, as in the perfect organism they may escape detection. DissECTioN.-In the course of dissection it is sufficient to recognize the lymphatic glands as they may present, but it is needless to preserve them. Lymphatic Vessels.-Lymphatic vessels are only recognized in special regions, viz.: the vicinity of the receptaculum chyli and along the left lymphatic or thoracic duct. They are, as a rule, so small elsewhere as to escape detection. Pictures illus- trating them are drawn from specimens, where the lymphatic vessels have been injected by special methods necessary thereior. Viscera.—The viscera of the body are certain organs, con- tained within the trunk and head ; the directions for their dis- section will be given in their proper places. DissECTioN.-The anatomy of aviscus is complete in itself, therefore it may be removed from the body and kept in some preservative fluid-a solution o arsenite of soda or of chloride of zinc-for special dissection. Before removal of an organ from the body, its relations, the source of its arterial and nerve supply, the destination of its vein or veins, and its duct (if it has any) should be recognized, as far as practicable. Ducts.—Ducts are the efferent canals from the secreting vis- cera, for the conveyance of the products of secretion ; they are found only in the trunk and head regions of the body.