POSTERIOR REGION OF LEG AND POPLITEAL SPACE. 157 along the fibular border of the soleus and flexor longus pollicis muscles. 34. Flexor Longus Pollicis Muscle—This muscle appears between the peroneus brevis muscle and the tendo Achillis. Dissection.—Expose the tendons and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, which are located upon the posterior surface of the distal end of the tibia. 35. Tendon of the Tibialis Posticus Muscle.—Upon the inner portion of the posterior surface of the internal malleolus is lodged this tendon. 36. Tendon of the Flexor Longus Digitorum Muscle.— This tendon runs to the outer side of the last-described tendon, and is superposed upon it. 37. Posterior Tibial Artery.—A portion of this artery (vena3 comites) appears along the outer side of, and parallel with, the last-described tendon. 38. Posterior Tibial Nerve.—A portion of this nerve runs along the outer side of the last-described artery, and to the inner side, though in a deeper plane, of the tendo Achillis. Dissection.—Section the gastrocnemius muscle (Plate 85), and reflect its proximal portion; cut away the middle portion of the muscle, by cutting its 1 respective heads distal to the points of entrance of their nerves (Plate 87) ; follow the nerves from their origins to the heads of the muscle. Clear the plantaris muscle, preserving its nerve and artery. Determine the nerves and vessels to the soleus muscle, and clear the surface of the muscle. 39. Plantaris Muscle, Plates 83, 85, 86, and 87.— This pre- sents a short muscle portion at its proximal end, which is at- tached to the posterior surface of the distal end of the femur, at the proximal side of the attachment of the outer head of the gastrocnemius muscle. Its long slender tendon has a dis- ! tal course: for its first portion upon the posterior surface of the inner half of the soleus muscle ; for its second portion to the inner side of, and anterior to, the tendo Achillis—to its at- tachment to the calcaneum. 40. Soleus Muscle, Plates 83, 85, and 87.—This, the largest muscle of the posterior region of the leg, has, at its proximal