POSTERIOR OF ELBOW, FOREARM, HAND, AND DIGITS. 297 4. Fascia.—The fascia of the posterior of the forearm is con- tinuous with that of the arm and the anterior of the forearm ; that of the dorsal surface of the hand and digits is continuous with that of the posterior of the forearm and that of the palmar surfaces of the hand and the digits. Dissection.—Section the subcutaneous veins and nerves (Plate 164) and clear them from the fascia. Incise the fascia, in the line of skin incision 1 of Figure 13 (page 295), and dissect it from the muscles of the forearm and the tendons upon the metacarpus; preserve the posterior annular ligament (Plate 165). 5. Posterior Annular Ligament, Plates 163 to 166, inclu- sive.—This is a thickened, oblique, portion of the fascia of the forearm, that crosses the distal ends of the radius and ulna, and the carpus. It is attached to the bony promi- nences at the sides of the wrist, and septa pass from it to the deep fascia of the carpus (Plates 167 and 168), forming compartments for the run of the tendons of the long ex- tensors, that cross from the forearm to the metacarpus. 6. Compound Extensor Attachment, Plates 163, 165, 167, 168, and 169.—This is formed by the fusion of the proximal ends of the extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, extensor carpi radialis brevior, and the supinator brevis muscles, to a common attachment to the outer condyle of the humerus. 7. Extensor Communis Digitorum Mu§c5e, Plates 163, 165, and 166.—This muscle has its- proximal attachment to the outer condyle of the humerus, by the compound extensor at- tachment thereto ; it has a distal course through the middle of the forearm to the carpus, where it forms two initial tendons, which cross the carpus in a special compartment of the posterior annular ligament ; distal to the ligament four terminal tendons appear, which are projected across the metacarpus to the dorsal surfaces of the second, third, fourth, and fifth digits, re- I spectively ; the one to the fifth digit becomes an accessory tendon to the extensor minimi digiti tendon. At the distal portion of the metacarpus transverse communicating slips pass between the second and third terminal tendons, and between the third terminal and the accessory tendons. The accessory tendon passes to the fifth digit to fuse with the