HEAD AND NECK. 420 of a lateral ventricle is bounded as follows : superiorly, by the half of the corpus callosum (Plate 215); internally, by the sep- tum lucidum, anteriorly, and by the attachment, along the median line, of the inferior surface of the corpus callosum to the superior surface of the fornix, posteriorly ; externally, by a part of the corpus striatum; interiorly, and in order antero- posterior^, by portions of the corpus striatum, the taenia semi- circularis, the anterior tubercle of the thalamus opticus, the choroid plexus, and the fornix. 19. Septum Lucidum.—This is a median-line, vertical parti- tion, between the anterior portions of the cavities of the right and left lateral or first and second ventricles ; it passes from the inferior surface of the anterior of the superior portion of the corpus callosum, superiorly, to the superior surface of the rostrum of the corpus callosum. inferiorly ; and from the pos- terior surface or concavity of the genu of the corpus callosum, anteriorly, to the anterior surface or convexity of the anterior pillars of the fornix, posteriorly. 20. Foramen of Monro, Plate 216 ; Fig. 1, Plate 217.— This is located posteriorly to the anterior pillars of the fornix, as a curved deficiency or slit in the partition between the cavi- ties of the lateral ventricles (a bristle is passed through it) ; by it the two lateral ventricles and the third ventricle communicate. 21. Corpus Striatum, Plates 216 and 217; Fig. 1, Plate 218.—This is one of the two anterior, basal, ganglia of the cere- brum. It has two portions : an intraventricular, which pro- jects into the cavity of the lateral ventricle at its external and inferior wall ; and an extraventricular, which is lodged in the cerebral mass, externally to the cavity of the lateral ventricle. 22. Taenia Semicircular™.—This is a narrow band of neu- ral tissue (white), which may be traced, antero-posteriorly, in the cavity of a lateral ventricle, where it is bedded in the groove between a corpus striatum and a thalamus opticus. It extends posteriorly and externally from the pillars of the for- nix, anteriorly. 23. Anterior Cornu of a Lateral Ventricle, Plates 216, 217, and 218.—This is the anterior ventricular recess, into the fron- tal lobe of a cerebral hemisphere.