TRUNK. 278 cesses of the lumbar vertebrae and the rudimentary spinous processes of the sacrum. The inter spinous are similar to those of the dorsal region. The ligamenta sub/lava are de- monstrable, but blend with the interspinous and capsular liga- ments. The posterior portions of the capsular of the articular processes appear ; as do also the capsular of the lumbo-sacral articular-process articulations. Dissection.—Expose the posterior costo-transverse ligaments between the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra and the neck and tubercle of a rib (Fig. 2, Plate 155). 50. Posterior Costo-Transverse Ligaments, Plate 152, and Fig. 2, Plate 155.—Three ligaments—superior, middle, and pos- terior—present posteriorly : the superior costo-transverse (Fig. 2, Plate 155), from the inferior portion of the posterior surface of the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra to the superior border of the neck of the rib immediately inferior to it ; the middle costo-transverse (Fig. 2, Plate 155), from the anterior surface of the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra to the posterior surface of the neck of the rib opposed to it; the pos- terior costo-transverse (Plate 152, and Fig. 2, Plate 155), from the tip of the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra to the contiguous posterior surface of the rib articulated with it. SPINAL COED IN SITU. Dissection.—Saw through the posterior portion of the occipital bone, right and left (section lines on Fig. 1, Plate 155) obliquely into the foramen magnum ; dissect away the included piece of the occipital bone. Saw, by two parallel section lines (including the cut internally), through the poste- rior wall of the vertebral column : for the cervical vertebrae internally to their articular processes (Fig. 1, Plate 155, and Plate 153) ; for the dorsal and lum- bar vertebrae at the roots of their transverse processes (Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 155, and Plates 153 and 154) ; for the sacrum internally to its posterior foramina (Plates 147 and 154). As the posterior portions of the vertebrae are sawed through, progressing inferiorly, the pieces may be removed by the hook and forceps. Display the dura mater, sheathing the spinal cord and the cauda equina ; also the roots of the spinal nerves, which are projected from the dura mater to their foramina of exit from the spinal canal. 51. Spinal Canal, Plates 153 and 154.—This canal, as opened, presents the sheath of the spinal cord and cauda equina, from the foramen magnum of the occipital bone to the sacral region of the spinal column. The sheathed spinal cord is separated