46 TRUNK. the same opening in the suspensory ligament; it continues to the glans, to the mucous membrane of which it is distributed. 9. Deep Dorsalis Penis Vein.—This vein (sometimes two) is lodged on the median line of the dorsum of the penis, passing from the glans to the suspensory ligament, where it enters a middle opening. It then continues, posteriorly, upon the ex- terior of the os pubis ; it enters the pelvic cavity by perforat- ing the triangular ligament; it then bifurcates, the branches emptying respectively into the venous plexus, right and left, at the sides of the prostate and base of the bladder. Dissection.—Make the bis-iliac and median-line incisions through the deep layer of the subcutaneous tissue ; reflect an inguinal flap, inf eriorly, upon the thigh, carrying the superficial inguinal vessels with it; pin the flap to the thigh. 10. Deep Layer of the Subcutaneous Tissue of the Ingui- nal Region.—-This plane of tissue continues below the line of Poupart's ligament, to be attached to the fascia lata, at an oblique line from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the scrotum ; the attachment runs between Pou- part's ligament and the saphenous opening. In the male, it is continuous with the dartos tunic of the scrotum and penis ; in the female, with that of the labium majus. This plane of tissue is continued from the perineal fascia of the perineum ; advan- cing, anteriorly, the latter becomes the dartos tunic of the scro- tum (posterior and anterior surfaces) or of the labia majora (female); from the dartos tunic of scrotum or labium it is di- rectly continuous with the layers of the subcutaneous tissue of the inguinal region. Dissection.—Make skin incisions 3 and 4 of Fig. 3 (page £3), and reflect a flap of the skin, externally, well off the lateral area of the abdomen. Incision t 4, with 2, completes the median-line incision. 11. Subcutaneous Tissue, Plate 24.—The superior antero- lateral area of the subcutaneous tissue presents but a single layer. It is in this plane of the parietes that the subcutaneous nerves of the abdomen ramify. Dissection.—Make incision 3 and median-line incision 4, of Fig. 3, in the subcutaneous tissue plane, and reflect lateral flaps corresponding to those of the skin ; preserve, as long as possible, the cutaneous nerves and vessels at their points of emergence.