THOEACIC VISCERA IN SITU. 241 9. Branches of the Internal Mammary Arteries, Plate 136. —The branches of these arteries present in the mediastinum, where they distribute to the pericardium, the anterior portions of the pleurae, the thymus gland, etc. Dissection.—Cut away the anterior portions of the right and left pleurae, thereby exposing the antero-internal borders of the lungs, right and left.' (Owing to the collapse of the lungs and the position of the body, the lungs fall, laterally, into either half of the thorax.) Note the anterior portion of the superior surface of the diaphragm. Hold off, by loops, the borders of the lungs, so as to find and trace the right and left phrenic nerves, from the superior of the thorax, to where, inferiorly, they perforate the diaphragm; find and follow the comes nervi phrenici arteries, which accompany the nerves.' Clear away the areolar tissue from the thymus gland, the vena cava superior, and the right and left innominate veins. 10. Diaphragm, Plates 137 and 138.—The superior sur- face of this muscle forms the floor of the thorax, anteriorly to, and to the right and left from, the pericardium. It is covered by the parietal layers of the pleurae, right and left. 11. Lungs, Plate 137.—The anterior borders of the lungs, right and left, appear at the sides of the pericardium ; of the right, its superior and middle lobes are seen ; of the left its superior lobe. The dotted lines, in Plate 137, indicate the limits of the internal projections of the antero-internal borders of the lungs during inspiration. (This may be produced by inflation ot the lungs, by bellows introduced into the trachea.) 12. Phrenic IVerves.—These nerves, the right and left en- ter the thorax from the neck, lying internally, and posteri- orly, to the internal mammary arteries ; they run, inferiorly between the pericardium and the right and left pleurse, to the diaphragm, which they perforate. They are accompanied by the comes nervi phrenici arteries (page 239). 13. Thymus Gland.-This ductless gland lies upon the an- terior surface of the arch of the aorta, inferiorly to the left innominate vein, and to the left of the vena cava superior It varies very much at different ages, and in different subjects; n the young it is larger than in the adult. In the adult its longest diameter is from right to left ; its inferior border isir- i5m ij ^s.left end is tllicker tban the risht; and>from the eiuiali of its superior border, it projects a portion into the uecjs, over the anterior surface of the left innominate vein