UPPER EXTREMITY. 310 the inner and outer sides of the joint area (Fig. 2, Plate 173). A palmar ligament fills the space between the palmar borders of the lateral ligaments, bridging between points of the palmar surfaces of the digital bones contiguous to the joint; it con- tains a fibrous plate, whose palmar surface is covered by the sheath of the flexor tendons of the digit. A dorsal ligament bridges between the dorsal borders of the lateral ligaments. Dissection.—Clear the surfaces of the metacarpophalangeal articulations, displaying the ligaments of the same. Open the joints of the middle and pollex digits, at their dorsal surfaces (Figs. 3.and 4, Plate 173) ; also that of the fourth digit, at its palmar surface (Fig. 5, Plate 173). 2. Metacarpophalangeal Articulations, Plates 171 and 172; Figs. 3, 4, and 5, Plate 173.—These articulations, five in number, are formed by the proximal ends (bases) of the phalan- ges and the distal ends (heads) of the metacarpal bones. They have the same ligaments as the digital articulations. The fibrous plates of the palmar ligaments of the digits, second to fifth, in- clusive, are thicker than those of the digits, while that of the pollex articulation includes two sesamoid bones (Fig. 4, Plate 173). Dissection.—Expose the palmar and dorsal intermetacarpal ligaments, the surfaces of the trapezio-metacarpal, the carpo-metacarpal, and the intercarpal articulations. 3. Intermetacarpal Ligaments, Plates 171 and 172.—These six ligaments—three palmar and three dorsal—bridge, at the respective surfaces, between the proximal ends (bases) of the metacarpal bones, second to fifth, inclusive. 4. Trapezio-metacarpal Articulation—This articulation is formed by the proximal end (base) of the first metacarpal bone and the trapezium of the carpus. It has a capsular ligament, which passes from the circumference of one articular surface to that of the other. 5. Carpo-metacarpal Articulation—This articulation is formed by the apposition of the proximal ends (bases) of the metacarpal bones, second to fifth, inclusive, and the distal sur- faces of the trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform bones of the carpus. Ligaments pass, upon the respective palmar and dor- sal surfaces, between these two lines of bones.