204 UPPER EXTREMITY. terminus of the axillary artery. It lies along the inner side of the coraco-brackialis and biceps muscles. In its course ,t gives off the superior profunda, the inferior profunda the anastomotica magna, and muscle branches. Its proximal por- tion has the median nerve to its outer side ; at its mid-portion it is crossed by the nerve ; for its distal third the nerve lies to its inner side. DissECTiOH.-Sectionthepectoralis minor muscle (Plate 117) ; reflect*, superior portion as in Plate 119, and its inferior portion to Us thoracic a tach- Zn where it may be cnt away. Clear the exterior surfaces of he extern TnIre stal muscles between the ribs, and the fibrous I ssue planebetween the costal cartilages. Cut the axillary vein, as in Plate 19 ; ^T^^l tion away, also the basilic vein and the vena, conntes of he^lachial£ta» Demonstrate the outer and inner cords of the axillary portion of the brachial plexus s also, the nerves projected from them mto the upper extremity. 58 External Intercostal Mnscles and their Anterior Inter- coli APonenroS.S, Plates 113 and 120,-These muscles form the exterior plane in the intercostal spaces, to the anterior ends of the ribs ; in the interchondral spaces, the plane is continued, by aponeurosis, to the border of the sternum. 59. Onter Cord of the Axillary Portion of the Brachial Plexus Plate 119.-This nerve trunk lies superiorly to, and parallel with, the internal third of the axillary artery ; it terminates by bifurcating into the musculocutaneous nerve and the outer leg of the median nerve. 60. inner Cord of the Axillary Portion of the Brachial P.e^s.-This nerve trunk runs parallel with, and inferiorly to The internal third of the axillary artery ; it gives off the small internal cutaneous and the internal cutaneous nerves which run inferiorly to the nerve cord ; the cord terminates by bifm- catLg into the ulnar nerve and the inner leg of the median. Dissection -Hook the median nerve and the brachial artery to the outer side fiudThTiuptrior profunda, the inferior profunda, and the anastomotica magna arteries. • 61. Superior Profnnda Artery, Plates 118 and "9 -™* artery (vena3 comites) is the first and largest branch of thj brachial artery ; it is given off from the rnner Jofaoj close to, the commencement of the brachial from theaxillag artery. It has a distal course upon the inner surface of the