ANTERIOE OF THORAX, AXILLA, AND ARM. 205 long head of the triceps muscle, and passes in between the long and inner heads of that muscle, in company with the musculo- spiral nerve and its branches. 62. Inferior Profunda Artery.—This artery (venaB comites) is the second branch from the inner side of the brachial artery; it is smaller than the last-described branch. It has a distal course upon the surface of the inner head of the triceps mus- cle joining the ulnar nerve, which it accompanies to the elbow. 63. Anastomotica Magna Artery.—This artery (venae com- ites) is given off from the inner side of the distal third of the brachial artery ; it runs to the inner side of the anterior of the elbow. 64. Inner Intermuscular Septum, Plate 119.—This is a fibrous tissue septum between the brachialis anticus muscle and the inner head of the triceps muscle ; it defines the ante- rior and posterior regions of the inner side of the arm. Dissection.—Section the axillary artery (Plate 119) and its branches; also, the outer and inner cords of the axillary portion of the brachial plexus, the musculo- cutaneous, internal, and small internal cutaneous nerves (Plate 119). Eeflect the axillary artery and the cords of the brachial plexus, with their branches, distally, upon the arm. (Do not cut away these reflected parts, as they are to be replaced, in situ.) Display the posterior cord of the axillary portion of the brachial plexus, and its branches. Note the posterior circumflex artery. 65. Posterior Cord of the Axillary Portion of the Brachial Plexus, Plate 120.—This cord of the plexus runs through the axilla, parallel with, and in a plane posteriorly to, the axillary artery and the outer and inner nerve cords. It gives off the first and second subscapular nerves, which may now be traced, superiorly, to its inferior side : the first is a short nerve, to the subscapularis muscle ; the second is a long nerve, to the latis- simus dorsi muscle. The cord terminates by bifurcating into | the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves. 66. Circumflex Nerve.—This nerve lies upon the anterior surface of the subscapularis muscle ; at the external border of this muscle, in the space between it and the teres major muscle, it winds to the posterior surface, and outer side, of the proximal end of the shaft of the humerus—the surgical neck.