70 TEUKK. vaginal portion of the neck of the uterus the bladder is at- tached by connective tissue ; it is separated from the body of the uterus by the vesico-uterine cul-de-sac of the greater peritoneum. 53. Female Rectum.—This is located so much like the male rectum, that the description of the lodgment of the latter (page 68) will answer for both. Dissection.—Drag down the stomach from the left; apply a ligature at its oesophageal extremity and cut above the ligature. Turn out the stomach and the spleen from the left. Dissect loose the pancreas and duodenum on their posterior surfaces. Eeplace the stomach, duodenum, pancreas and spleen. Follow up the vena cava inferior to the posterior surface of the right lobe of the liver; apply a ligature to it above the renal veins, and cut the vessel. Drag down the liver from the right; determine the antero-superior layer of the coronary and the two lateral ligaments of the liver; with the curved scissors cut these ligaments close to the diaphragm. Continuing to drag on the liver, recognize with the finger the vena cava, as it pierces the diaphragm at the caval opening; pass a ligature around it and cut the vessel below it. Cut the remaining postero-inferior layer of the coronary ligament with the curved scissors, close to the diaphragm. Cut the trunk of the coeliac axis, and the stump of the superior mesenteric artery. Eemove the stomach, duode- num, pancreas and liver, en masse. Eemove the peritoneum from the ab- dominal aorta, the common, the external and the internal iliac arteries; in so doing note the nerves of the plexuses of the sympathetic (Plate 33), which ramify upon the arteries. 54. Abdominal Aorta, Plate 38.—This arterial trunk enters the abdominal cavity opposite the body of the twelfth dorsal vertebra, between the crura of the diaphragm ; the latter are applied to its lateral surfaces. It continues on the vertebral column to the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it bifurcates into the right and the left common iliac arteries. In its course it gives off distributing branches: the two phrenic, the coeliac axis, the two suprarenal, the superior mesenteric, the two renal, the two spermatic or the two ovarian, the inferior mesenteric, the four pairs of lumbar and the sacra media. 55. Coeliac Axis.—This arterial axis springs from the an- terior face of the aorta, and trifurcates as before described (page 62). 56. Suprarenal Arteries. — These arteries (vena? comites) branch, right and left, to the respective suprarenal capsules.