367 ANTEROLATERAL AREA OF THE NECK. 39. Internal Carotid Artery, Plates 192 to 196, inclusive.— This artery passes, superiorly, from its origin to its disappear- ance posteriorly to the hypoglossal nerve and occipital artery. 40. External Carotid Artery.—This artery is projected, superiorly, from its origin to the point where it disappears in- ternally to the parotid gland. 41. Superior Thyroid Artery.—This artery (venae comites), the first internal branch of the 'external carotid, is given off close to the origin of the latter ; it curves inferiorly, to run internally to, and parallel with, the common carotid artery. Its branches are : the internal laryngeal (Plate 194), which joins the superior laryngeal nerve (page 366), anteriorly to thyro-hyoid membrane and disappears, with the nerve, between the membrane and the thyro-hyoid muscle; the external laryn- geal (Plate 194), which distributes to the muscles exteriorly to the larynx ; the cricoid (Plates 195,196, and 197), which crosses, internally, anteriorly to the crico-thyroid muscle, and the supe- rior portion of the crico-thyroid membrane, to its anastomosis with its fellow of the opposite side. The superior thyroid ar- tery terminates by branches, most of which enter the superior of the thyroid body, while others anastomose with branches of the inferior thyroid artery (Plates 196 and 197). 42. Inferior Constrictor Muscle, Plates 190, 196 and 197.— The inferior portion of this constrictor muscle of the pharynx presents externally to the superior thyroid body, on its way to its attachment to the thyroid cartilage of the larynx (Plate 190). The superior thyroid artery lies externally to it. 43. Lingual Artery, Plates 192 to 197, inclusive.—This ar- tery, the second internal branch of the external carotid, passes, superiorly and externally, from its origin to its disappearance internally to the posterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle, where it runs parallel with, and superiorly to, the hyoid bone. 44. Facial Artery.—This artery, the third internal branch of the external carotid, runs from its origin, internally and su- periorly, to pass internally to the submaxillary gland ; it reap- pears between the gland and the body of the inferior maxillary