ABDOMINAL PARIETES. 53 the superior three-quarters, it is formed—from without inward —by the interior layer of the aponeurosis of the obliquus in- ternus and the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis muscle. The interior layer of the sheath is attached, superiorly, to the inferior borders of the seventh and eighth costal carti- lages and the ensif'orm cartilage of the sternum. 31. Linea Semilunaris—This fibrous line is contributed to by the superposition of the aponeuroses at the external edge of the rectus abdominis muscle. 32. Onca Alba.—This line is formed by the intersection of the aponeuroses of the three pairs of anterolateral muscles, at the median line, from the symphysis pubis to the ensiform car- tilage of the sternum, between the internal borders of the recti muscles. Dissection.—Eemove the pyramidalis abdominis muscle. Trace the nerves exterior to the transversalis abdominis muscle into the substance of the rectus abdominis muscle (Plate 26). Trace the deep epigastric artery and its branches, superiorly, through the rectus abdominis muscle, and determine their anasto- moses with the superior epigastric branch of the internal mammary; preserve these arteries within the sheath, by cutting away the substance of the muscle tissue between them (Plate 28). Note the course of the spermatic cord, or of the round ligament of the uterus between the inferior edge of the transversalis abdominis muscle (Plate 27) and Poupart's ligament, upon the portion of the transversalis fascia there presenting. Cut away the obliquus externus and in- ternus muscles, external to the linese semilunares; trim the aponeurotic flaps of the exterior portions of the sheaths of the recti muscles close to the linere semilunares and the linea alba. Cut the intercostal nerves and vessels close to their emergence from between the ribs. Cut the circumflex iliac arteries at their points of penetration of the transversalis abdominis muscles. Section the transversalis abdominis muscle: along the inferior border of the eleventh rib and the borders of the cartilages of the three lower ribs ; from the eleventh rib to the ilium; along the crest of the ilium; and at its Poupart ligament attachment. Eeflect an antero-lateral flap of the transversalis abdominis mus- cle, internally, to the linea semilunaris, where it may be cut away. 33. Transversalis Fascia.—This fascia lines the transver- salis muscle ; it is thick and well defined at its inguinal por- tion, but much less so superiorly ; it continues, internally, to the linea alba, interior to the sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle. 34. Iliac (internal) Abdominal Ring.—This so-called ring is the point of emergence through the transversalis fascia of the