200 ; UPPER EXTREMITY. 37. Fascia of the Pectoralis Minor Muscle—This layer of fascia springs from the anterior layer of the costo-coracoid membrane, passing interiorly, to the exteriors of the two supe- rior ribs and costal cartilages and the superior and internal border of the pectoralis minor muscle ; it splits into an anterior and a posterior layer to include the muscle ; at the inferior and external border of the muscle the two layers unite again, to blend with the axillary fascia. Superiorly to the pectoralis minor muscle, it is perforated by branches of the short and acromio-thoracic arteries, and those of the anterior thoracic nerves. DissECTiON.-Clear the anterior surfaces of the pectoralis minor and the subclavius muscles. 38. Pectoralis Minor Muscle, Plates 113 and 117.—This muscle has an oblique and inferior course : its superior and external attachment is to the coracoid process of the scap- ula ; its inferior and internal attachments are to the exteri- or surfaces of the anterior ends of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs. 39. Subclavius Muscle, Plates 119 and 120.-This is a short muscle, located parallel with and inferiorly to the clavicle. It has an internal attachment to the exterior surface ot the cartilage of the first rib ; and an external one to the inferior sur- face of the clavicle, externally to the middle of the bone. DissECTioN.-Clear away the adipose tissue from the axillary area between the borders of the pectoralis minor muscle, anteriorly, and the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles, posteriorly. Expose and follow, superiorly, the long thoracic and subscapular arteries ; strip them of their yen* comites, and note the muscles they supply. Demonstrate the anterior circumflex artery. Trace, superiorly, the posterior thoracic and the subscapular nerves-from the serratus magnus, the latissimus dorsi, the teres major, and the subscapulars muscles. • Display, in part, the anterior surface of the subscapulars muscle. 40. Long Thoracic Artery, Plates 116, 117, 119, and 120.-J This artery (venae comites) has an inferior course from its origin from the axillary artery, appearing along the external border of the pectoralis minor muscle ; it sends branches to the lattei and to the serratus magnus muscle. 41. Subscapular Artery.-This vessel (vena comes) is givej off from the axillary artery ; it has an inferior course, ante-