TRUNK. 18 11. Pudic tferve.—This nerve lies exteriorly to the artery, giving off the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve as described above. Posteriorly to the tuberosity of the ischium it gives off the pos- terior superficial and anterior perineal nerves, which pierce the perineal fascia, anteriorly to its base line of junction with the triangular ligament, that they may distribute, beneath the fas- cia, in and beyond the urethral region. The trunk of the nerve continues, anteriorly, interiorly to the triangular ligament. 12. Pudic Artery—This artery (vena comes), having re- entered the pelvic cavity from the exterior of the spine of the ischium, runs in the external wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, where it lies interiorly to the pudic nerve, and passes, anteri- orly, into the urethral region, interiorly to the triangular liga- ment. In its transit in the wall of the fossa, it gives off the inferior hemorrhoidal artery ; posteriorly or at times internally to the tuberosity of the ischium, it bifurcates into the super- ficial and the deep perineal arteries. Dissection.—Section the perineal fascia (Plate 6), and reflect flaps of the fascia (Plate 7). Determine the superficial vessels, nerves, and muscles, inte- riorly to the perineal fascia. 13. Bisischiatic Fascial Junction, Plate 7, and Fig. 3, Plate 8.—This is located along the posterior border of the super- ficial transversus perina3i muscle. It is formed by the junction of the base of the perineal fascia, and the levator fascia, with the base of the triangular ligament. 14. Superficial Perineal Artery, Plate 7.—This artery (vena comes), a branch of bifurcation of the pudic, enters the ure- thral region of the perineum at its posterior external angle, sometimes posteriorly to the base of the triangular ligament, perforating the perineal fascia, at others interiorly to the trian- gular ligament, perforating it and the perineal fascia. It passes anteriorly, giving off the transverse perineal artery and muscle branches ; it also distributes to the scrotum. 15. Superficial Perineal Nerves—The posterior superficial and the anterior superficial perineal nerves are branches of the pudic nerve ; they enter the ischio-rectal fossa and reach their plane of distribution by perforating the perineal fascia close to its base line. They supply the skin of the urethral region