TJPPEK EXTREMITY. 222 60. Second Lumbricalis Muscle.—This muscle is lodged in this space ; the third digital nerve and artery being lodged upon its palmar surface. At its proximal portion it receives its nerve from the third digital nerve. Its distal end presents its tendon, which passes over the outer side of the metacarpo- phalangeal articulation of the third digit, to the dorsal surface of said digit. Dissection.—Display the anatomical elements of the third palmar inter- tendinous space. 61. Fourth Digital Nerve.—This nerve has a distal course, from where it emerges, into this space, from the dorsal surface of the anterior annular ligament; it passes to the dorsal sur- face of the superficial palmar arch, distal to which it bifurcates into the sixth and seventh palmar collateral digital nerves. 62. Fourth Digital Artery.—This artery (vense comites) is given off from the superficial palmar arch, where the latter bridges the third palmar intertendinous space ; it has a distal course, along the inner side of the last-described nerve, to the webbing between the third and fourth digits, where it bifurcates into the sixth and seventh palmar collateral digital arteries. 63. Third Lumbricalis Muscle.—This muscle is located in the third palmar intertendinous space, having the fourth digi- tal nerve and artery upon its palmar surface. Its tendon passes to the dorsal surface of the fourth digit, along the outer side of its metacarpophalangeal articulation. Dissection.—Expose the parts occupying the fourth palmar intertendinous space. 64. Fifth Digital Nerve.—This nerve was described from its j origin, from the superficial palmar branch of the ulnar nerve j (page 218), to where it enters the palmar fossa. In this inter- j tendinous space it bifurcates into the eighth and ninth palmar , collateral digital nerves. 65. Fifth Digital Artery.—This branch (vena3 comites) of the superficial palmar arch has a distal course in this space, to the webbing between the fourth and fifth digits, where it bifurcates into the eighth and ninth palmar collateral digital arteries. It runs to the dorsal side of the last-described nerve.