HEAD AND NECK. 430 to (page 417 ; Plate 214). Besides being the most vital nerve centre, its parts are longitudinally commissural: between the spinal cord and the cerebellum ; and between the spinal cord and the pons Varolii. Its grey neural tissue is central, but by the divergence, at its postero-superior surface of its posterior— longitudinal portions, its central grey neural tissue is exposed, at the medulla oblongata portion of the floor of the fourth ven- tricle of the brain (Fig. 2, Plate 222). 52. Antero-lateral Surface of the Medulla Oblongata, Plate 214 ; Fig. 1, Plate 222.—This area of the medulla oblon- gata presents the - following : an anterior median fissure con- tinued from the spinal cord ; externally to, and parallel with, the fissure is an anterior, longitudinal, column, continued from the lateral column of the spinal cord, the pyramid—its fibres decussate at the bottom of the fissure, with those of its fellowr of the opposite side ; externally to a pyramid is a lateral col- umn continued from the same column of the spinal cord— which has an olivary body lodged in its superior end—the spinal accessory nerve has a partial exterior origin from this column of the medulla oblongata ; a slight antero-lateral groove presents between an olivary body and a pyramid, from which the exterior origin of the hypoglossal nerve is projected (page 418 ; Plates 211 and 214)—interiorly the groove is trace- able to the spinal cord ; posteriorly to a lateral column is a funiculus of Rolando, inferiorly, which is continued into a restiform body, superiorly ; between an olivary and a restiform body a postero-lateral groove exists, from which a glossopha- ryngeal and a pneumogastric nerve are given off—the groove is not well defined, inferiorly. A transverse groove divides the medulla oblongata from the pons Varolii—the abducent, fa- cial nerve of Wrisberg, and auditory nerves are projected from this fissure, contiguously to the olivary bodies. Dissection.—Turn the portion of brain (Fig. 1, Plate 222) upon its antero- inferior surface, thereby presenting its postero-superior face (Fig. 2, Plate 222). 53. Postero-superior Surface of the Medulla Oblongata, Fig. 1, Plate 220 ; Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 222.—This area presents the following : a posterior-median fissure ; for its inferior half, and at either side of the fissure, nre the right and left funicu- lus gracilis, which broaden superiorly into a right and left