232 UPPER EXTREMITY. Dissection—Section the abductor minimi digiti muscle (Plate 131) ; re- flect its portions and cut them away with the flexor brevis minimi digiti muscle, as in Plate 132. Section the opponens, the flexor brevis (outer and inner heads), and the adductor pollicis muscles (Plate 132) ; reflect their por- tions and cut them away, as in Plate 133. In reflecting the flexor brevis and the adductor pollicis muscles find their supplying nerves from the deep pal- mar nerve, and cut them where they enter the muscles ; dissect the distal ends of the heads of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle from the sesamoid bones, leaving the latter in situ (Plate 133). Display the deep palmar arch and its branches ; also, the deep palmar nerve and its branches (Plates 132 and 133). 94. Nerves to the Inner Head of the Flexor Brevis Polli- cis and the Adductor Pollicis Muscles, Plate 133.—In reflecting the proximal portion of the former and the inner portion of the latter muscle, their nerves, from the deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve, enter the inner border of the former and the dorsal surface of the latter. 95. Beep Palmar Arch, Plates 132 and 133.—The deep palmar arch is formed by the entrance of the radial artery into the deep plane of the palm, at the proximal end of the first in- termetacarpal space. The arterial arch (vense comites) crosses the proximal ends of the metacarpal bones (second to fifth, inclusive), and the interossei muscles, dorsal and palmar. At its inner end the arch is completed by anastomosing with the deep palmar branch of the ulnar artery, which enters the deep plane of the palm, from the dorsal surface of the proximal end of the opponens minimi digiti muscle. 96. Branches of the Deep Palmar Arch.—The branches of the deep palmar arch are distal, dorsal, and proximal. The distal branches are : the first and the second digital, the first, the second, and the third interosseous. The first digital ar- tery (venae comites) has a distal course between the palmar surface of the first metacarpal bone (Plate 133) and the flexor brevis pollicis muscle, to a point opposite the distal end of the bone, where, between the heads of the muscle, it bifur- cates into the palmar collateral digital arteries (first and sec- ond) of the first (pollex) digit. The second digital artery (veme comites) runs upon the palmar and outer surfaces of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, to a point opposite the meta- carpophalangeal articulation of the second digit, where it be-