282 TRUNK. posterolateral surface of the vertebra—they have notches supe- riorly and interiorly ; the lamina (Fig. 1, Plate 155), right and left, close the hoop posteriorly, passing from the pedicles to their median-line junction. The bod}^ and arch enclose the vertebral foramen, and support seven processes, as follows: four articular, two superior and two inferior (Plate 155 and Figs. 1, 3, and 4, Plate 156); two transverse, a right and left (Plates 155 and 156); and one spinous (Plate 155). The sacrum consists of five incompletely developed verte- brae fused into one bone. The coccyx is four rudimentary vertebrse fused into a single bone. The vertebral column is constructed by the articulation of the above twenty-six bones, whereby the vertebral canal (from the foramen magnum of the occipital bone to the in- ferior end of the sacrum) results, which lodges the spinal cord, with its membranes, vessels, and roots of nerves (Plates 153 and 154). Intervertebral foramina (Fig. 4, Plate 156), for the transit of nerves and vessels, are formed by the apposition of the notches superior and inferior—of the pedicles of the arches of the vertebrse ; while anterior and posterior sacral foramina (Plates 42, 147, and 154) open out of the sacral por- tion of the vertebral canal. 60. Posterior Cervical, Dorsal, and Lumbar Ligaments. —These include the supraspinous, interspinous, ligamenta sub- flava, and capsular ligaments of the respective regions of the vertebral column ; they are described at pages 277 and 278, and illustrated Plate 155. Dissection.—Cut the roots of the spinal nerves, right and left (Plates 153 and 154), and remove the cord from the vertebral canal. Disarticu- late between the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrse, and display the pos- terior common ligament of the vertebral column (Fig. 1, Plate 156). Saw the ribs, right and left, at about two inches from their articulations with the trans- verse processes of the dorsal vertebras ; also through the bodies of the fourth and seventh dorsal vertebras. Expose the anterior common ligament of the dorsal vertebras and their intervertebral discs. Disarticulate between the first and second, and between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebras (page 177); ex- pose the anterior common ligament and intervertebral discs of the lumbar ver- tebras. Note the intervertebral foramina and the parts which pass through them (Fig. 4, Plate 156).