246 TRUNK. anteriorly, superiorly to the root of the right lung, to empty into the vena cava superior, before the latter receives its peri- cardial investment. (This point of junction of the vena azygos major with the vena cava superior was seen, when the former was sectioned, in removing the thoracic viscera, see page 244.) 30. Thoracic or Left Lymphatic Duct, Plate 139.—The in- ferior third of the thoracic portion of this duct will be found passing, superiorly, from the aortic opening of the diaphragm, to where it disappears posteriorly to the superior two-thirds of the thoracic portion of the oesophagus. In this portion of its course it lies anteriorly to the right intercostal arteries, and be- tween the thoracic aorta, to the left, and the vena azygos major to the right—nearer the former than the latter. Dissection.—Expose the dorsal portion of the right sympathetic nerve ; its branches of communication with the right intercostal nerves, and its splanch- nic branches. 31. Dorsal Portion of the Right Sympathetic Nerve, Plate 139.—This portion of the right sympathetic nerve consists of twelve ganglia, each located opposite the anterior surface of the head of a rib, upon an anterior costo-central or stellate ligament. Each ganglion is united to the ganglion superiorly and inferiorly to it, by interganglionic branches ; each presents two external branches, which communicate with the anterior division of the dorsal spinal or intercostal nerve, inferiorly to it; and each sends off an internal branch of distribution. 32. dreat Splanchnic and other Branches of distribution of the Dorsal Portion of the Right Sympathetic Nerve.—The dorsal ganglia, sixth to ninth, inclusive, distribute branches, internally, which unite to form the right great splanchnic nerve; it passes into the abdomen by perforating the right crus of the diaphragm. The superior six dorsal ganglia give off internal branches : to the posterior pulmonary plexus, to the thoracic aorta, and to other contiguous parts. (The branches of distribution of the six superior dorsal ganglia, of the right side, were cut away in the removal of the thoracic viscera.) Dissection.—Clear the thoracic aorta and find the oesophageal arteries. Trace the right intercostal vessels and nerves in the intercostal spaces, adjacent to the vertebral column.