406 HEAD AND NECK. from a lachrymal sac (Fig. 1, Plate 184) ; the infundibulum opening, at the anterior of a middle meatus, is from a fron- tal sinus and the anterior cells of a lateral mass of the eth- moid bone ; the maxillary sinus opening, at tlie mid-portion of a middle meatus, is into the maxillary sinus of a side ; the posterior ethmoidal opening, at the anterior of a superior meatus, is into the posterior cells of a lateral mass of the eth- moid bone. At the posterior of the superior wall (Plate 209 ; Fig. 1, Plate 210) is the sphenoidal sinus opening, into the sphenoidal sinus of a side. By the above openings the mucous membrane of* a nasal cavity passes out to line the respective canals and cavities communicated with. Dissection.—Following (Fig. 1, Plate 210) the descending palatine artery and the anterior palatine nerve, open, in a superior direction (with the bone forceps or the chisel and mallet), the posterior palatine canal as far as the in- ferior wall of the sphenoidal sinus (remove the fragments of bone). Trace the descending palatine artery and the anterior palatine nerve superiorly; find the inferior nasal branch of the nerve ; display the spheno-palatine ganglion and its branches, also the internal maxillary artery and its branches. 1§. Spneno-paiatine Ganglion ; its Roots ; and its Branches, Fig. 1, Plate 210.—This ganglion, one of the cephalic ganglia of the sympathetic nervous system, is located in the spheno- palatine fossa, inferiorly to the sphenoidal sinus, superiorly to the posterior palatine canal, and posteriorly to the spheno-pala- tine foramen. Its roots are : two sensory roots, which enter the superior part of the ganglion, being derived from the superior maxillary division of the sensory root of the trifacial nerve ; its motor and sympathetic roots enter the posterior part of the ganglion, as the Vidian nerve, viz. : the latter nerve is formed (page 347 ; Plates 185 and 186) by the large superficial petrosal nerve (page 346) from the facial nerve—the motor root of the ganglion—and the large deep petrosal nerve (page 347) from the sympathetic plexus upon the intracranial portion of the inter- nal carotid artery—the sympathetic root of the ganglion. The branches of the ganglion are the following : the naso- palatine nerve, before described (page 404) and illustrated (Plate 209); the superior nasal nerve, before described (page 404) and illustrated (Plate 209); the anterior palatine nerve, is projected, inferiorly, into the posterior palatine canal, where it gives off the inferior nasal nerve (page 404 ; Plate