268 TRUNK. is perforated by small arteries and the internal (cutaneous) brandies of the posterior divisions of the twelfth dorsal and the first to fifth lumbar spinal nerves (page 266). 11. Scapular Fascia.-In the angle between the superior border of the latissimus dorsi muscle and the external border of the trapezius muscle, a deep fascia appears investing the surfaces of the posterior scapular and the rhomboideus major muscles. DissECTiON.-Section the trapezius muscle along its median-line attach- ments, as in Plate 149, and turn it off externally, so as to hang from its scapu- lar and clavicular attachments ; cut out the arteries and nerves that perforate it Section the latissimus dorsi muscle, as in Plate 149, and reflect it from the posterior and lateral areas of the abdomen and thorax ; in so doing it must be cut from its rib attachments. Cut out the arteries and nerves that per- forate the internal portion of the latissimus dorsi muscle, leaving the stumps of the same. Dissect out the artery and nerve, that enter the anterior face of the reflected trapezius muscle. Clear the posterior surfaces of the rhomboideus major, the rhomboideus minor, and the levator anguli scapulaa muscles. Dis- play -the arteries, that emerge, posteriorly, from between these three muscles. 12 Superficial Cervical Artery and Spinal Accessory ervc. -This artery and nerve enter the anterior face of the trapezius muscle. 13. Rnomboldeus M*«or Mmcle.-This muscle, of the sec- end plane of muscles of the back, is attached : internally, to he spinous processes of the four superior dorsal vertebrae, and he supraspinous ligaments that bridge between the same; ex er- nally, to the posterior lip of the internal border ol the infia- spinous portion of the scapula. Its internal portion is aponeu- rotic, ami perforated by the internal (cutaneous) branches of the posterior divisions of several dorsal-spinal nerves. 14 Kl.omboide»S Minor Muscle.-This muscle lies in the same plane with, superiorly to and parallel with the last- described muscle. It is attached : mternally to the s process of the seventh cervical vertebra, and the supra pnou ligament between the latter and the spinous process of. ehrs dorsal vertebra ; externally, to the posterior lip of the posterior border of the body of the scapula, opposite the spine of that bone.