INTERIOR OF THE BASE OF THE CRANIUM. 325 the first or olfactory, by filaments from its bulb, through the openings in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; the second or optic by the optic foramen, at the apex or internal end of the posterior border of the anterior fossa of the cranium ; the third or oculomotor, by an opening in the dura mater, externally to the anterior end of the basilar process of the occipital bone ; the fourth or trochlear, by an opening in the dura mater, at a point a little posteriorly and inferiorly to the transit of the third ; the fifth or trifacial (a large sensory and a small motor root), by an opening in the dura mater, posteriorly to the transit of the fourth, and in- feriorly to the attachment of the tentorium cerebelli to the temporal bone; the sixth or abducent, by an opening in the dura mater, internally and inferiorly to the transit of the fifth; the seventh or facial and the eighth or auditor out by the meatus auditorius interims, at the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; the ninth or glossopharyngeal, the tenth or pneumogastric, and the eleventh or spinal accessory by the anterior portion of the foramen lacerum posterius—a deficiency in the occipito-temporal articu- lation ; the twelfth or hypoglossal by the anterior condyloid foramen. 33. Spinal Accessory Nerve.—This nerve, having its origin from the lateral surface of the cervical portion of the spinal cord (page 281, Plate 153), enters the cranium by the foramen magnum and leaves the same as described above. 34. Spinal Cord.—The superior end of the spinal cord is seen, through the foramen magnum. 35. Arteries of the Base of tlte Cranium.—The internal carotid arteries are projected, superiorly, at either side of the body of the sphenoid bone. At the foramen magnum the ver- tebral arteries enter the cranial cavity. The auditory arteries, leave the cranium by the meatus auditorius internus, right and left, with the auditory and facial nerves. Dissection.—With the curved scissors slit open the posterior and inferior portion of the superior longitudinal; also the lateral, the occipital, the superior petrosal, the cavernous, the transverse, the coronary, and the inferior petrosal sinuses, of one side, of the interior of the base of the cranium. Loop aside one of the stumps of an optic nerve and find the ophthalmic branch of the internal carotid artery.