240 TEUNK. terior branches—sternal, mediastinal pericardial—pass in- teriorly, to distribute to the triangularis sterni muscle (sternal), to the areolar tissue of the anterior mediastinum (mediastinal), and to the pericardium (pericardial). THOEACIO VISCEEA IN SITU. Dissection.—Display the anterior reduplications of the parietal layers of the right and left pleurae, and the anterior portion of the parietal layer of the pericardium. Preserve the mediastinal, and the pericardial branches of the internal mammary arteries. 7. Pleura, Plate 136.— These are two serous membranes, which invest the lungs, right and left, by two layers: the parietal and the visceral, The par ietal layers line the interior of the thorax, and are reflected anteriorly and posteriorly to the roots of the lungs ; the visceral layers are expansions of the parietal layers, from the right and left lung-roots, over the lungs, respectively. The antero-internal limits of the parietal layers of the pleurae advance to the borders of the interior of the sternum, where they are reduplicated, posteriorly, upon the lateral surfaces of the parietal layer of the pericardium, to reach the anterior surfaces of the roots of the lungs. The dotted lines in Plate 136 indicate the limits of the antero- internal projections of the pleura? during inspiration. (These limits may be shown by inflation of the lungs, by a bellows introduced, and tied, into the inferior end of the sectioned trachea.) From the interior of the circumference of the in- ferior of the thoracic parietes the parietal layers of the pleurae are reflected to the superior surface of the diaphragm. From the interior of the posterior parietes of the thorax, the parietal layers of the pleurae, right and left, are reduplicated, anteriorly, from the lateral surfaces of the bodies of the dorsal vertebras, upon the oesophagus and aorta, to reach the posterior surfaces of the roots of the lungs, right and left. §. pericardium, Plates 136 and 137.—The anterior portion of the parietal layer of this serous membrane investment of the heart occupies the interval between the right and left pleurae. Inferiorly, it is reflected to the superior surface of the diaphragm. It is reflected upon the large vessels, superiorly to the base of the heart.