HEAD AND NECK. 388 nerve, is similar to that of the left side, which was described at page 373 and illustrated in Plate 197. 2. The Duct of, and Deep Portion of, the Submaxillary Gland, Plates 197 and 204 ; Fig. 1, Plate 205.—The duct of the submaxillary gland continues, anteriorly, from the gland pos- teriorly to the border of the mylohyoid muscle, between the mylo-hyoid muscle externally, and the hyo-glossus muscle, in- ternally ; it passes internally to the sublingual glandular tis- sue, and opens at the buccal floor, by the side of the frsenum of the tongue. A deep portion of the submaxillary gland pre- sents between the posterior part of the mylo-hyoid muscle and the anterior part of the hyo-glossus muscle. 3. Hypoglo§sal Nerve.—The cervical part of this nerve has been described (page 364) and illustrated (Plates 192 to 197, in- clusive), to the point where it disappears, internally to the hyoid ends of the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscles. Its an- terior and internal portion was partly described (page 365), and illustrated (Plate 197). Its latter portion runs between the mylo-hyoid muscle, externally, and the hyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus muscles, internally. It distributes branches (Plate 204) to the hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, genio-hyoid, and genio-hyo-glossus muscles ; its trunk then enters the substance of the tongue to supply its intrinsic muscle structure. 4. Tongue: Plates 202, 203, and 204; Fig. 1, Plate 205; Fig. 2, Plate 206.—This median-line, conical-shaped, organ arches, postero-anteriorly, into the floor of the buccal cavity. It results from the fusion of the free ends of (Fig. 1, Plate 205) five pairs of extrinsic muscles—genio-hyo-glossus, hyo-glossus, superior constrictor, stylo-glossus, and palato-glossus—with its intrinsic muscle fibres—longitudinal, transverse, and verti- cal. The dorsum, lateral borders, and apex of its complex muscle structure is covered by mucous membrane, which is closely studded with papillae. Its base (Plate 204 ; Fig. 1, Plate 205) is fixed : to the hyoid bone, by the attachments of the pairs of genio-hyo-glossus and hyo-glossus muscles, pos- teriorly ; to the inferior maxillary bone, by the attachment of the pair of genio-hyo-glossus muscles, anteriorly. Its lateral borders, which are moulded to the contour of the interior surfaces of the body and alveolar process of the inferior maxil-