ABDOMINAL VISCERA IN SITU. 67 along the greater curvature of the stomach to anastomose with the gastro-epiploica dextra, as before shown (page 65). 43. Ductus Communis Choledocfius.—This duct, already recognized in a part of its course, can now be followed to where it enters the duodenum; if care be taken, the junction of the pancreatic duct with it—emerging from the head of the pan- creas—may be discovered. Dissection.—Kestore the stomach and duodenum to their normal positions. Eaise the cut distal portion of the sigmoid flexure of the colon out of the pel- vic cavity, and pin it into the left iliac fossa, making the rectum taut. Kemove with a sponge any fluid, that may be lodged between the pelvic organs. 44. Male Pelvic Organs, in situ, Fig. 1, Plate 37.—The superior contours of these organs will be found to include the rectum, to the left, posteriorly, and the bladder anteriorly. Between the two is the recto-vesical cul-de-sac of the perito- neum. 45. Male Pelvic Reflections of the Greater Peritoneum, Plate 29 and Fig. 1, Plate 37.—The greater peritoneum is re- flected from the interior of the anterior abdominal parietes— interior to the obliterated urachus and hypogastric arteries— to the middle and sides of the fundus of the bladder (page 55); from the fundus of the bladder it continues, posteriorly, over its superior and lateral contours to its posterior surface; it descends to the base line of the exterior trigone area of the bladder (Male Perineum, page 26, Plate 12), where it is reflected to the anterior surface of the rectum, forming the recto-vesical cul-de-sac. This cul-de-sac is bounded, laterally, by crescentic folds of the peritoneum, the plicse semilunares, which bridge between the two organs. The serous membrane rises upon the surface of the antero-lateral walls of the rectum—more on its right than its left side. To the right of the rectum—the supe- rior part of its second portion—it is reflected to the posterior wall of the pelvic interior, forming the right portion of the meso-rectum, which continues, laterally and superiorly, upon the right iliac vessels. From the left side of the rectum—the superior part of its second portion—it passes to the left side of the pelvic interior, forming the left portion of the meso- rectum, which in turn continues, superiorly, over the left iliac