ANTERIOK OF ELBOW, FOREARM, AND HAND. 223 66. Fourth Lusnbricalie Uffuscle.—This muscle forms the floor of the fourth palmar intertendinous space, with the last- described nerve and artery upon its palmar surface. Its ten- don passes over the outer side of the metacarpophalangeal ar- ticulation of the fifth digit, to the dorsal surface of the same. Dissection.—Make the skin incisions 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, of Figure 10 (page 207), on the digits, first to fifth, inclusive ; reflect skin flaps well off the lateral digi- tal surfaces; trace the palmar collateral digital nerves, and arteries, and clear the digital sheaths of the flexor tendons ; open the latter and probe the same (Fig. 2, Plate 4). 67. Palmar Collateral Digital Nerves, Plate 127. These nerves, ten in number, are located in the palmar halves of the lateral digital surfaces ; they are continued from (second and. sixth), and result from the bifurcation of (first, third, fourth, and fifth), the digital nerves. Each digit has two nerves, one at each palmar half of a lateral digital surface. Each nerve sends a dorsal digital branch to the dorsal surface of the pha- langine and phalangette segments of the digit. 6§. Palmar Collateral Digital Arteries, Plates 127,131,132, and 133.—These arteries (venae comites), ten in number, accom- pany the last-described nerves, and run at their dorsal surfaces. They are given off (first, second, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth), from the bifurcation of the first, third, fourth, and fifth digital arteries ; the third and tenth are con- tinued from the second and sixth digital arteries, respectively. Each digit has two arteries, one in the palmar half of each lat- eral digital surface. Each artery of the digits, second to fifth inclusive, gives off a dorsal branch, opposite the phalangine of those digits (Plate 127). The two arteries of a digit anasto- mose at the palmar surface of its phalangette. 69. Digital Sheaths of the Flexor Tendons, Plate 127 ; Fig. 2, Plate 4.—The palmar surface of each digit, second to fifth inclusive, presents a sheath of investment of the flexor tendons there lodged. They are attached to the lateral digital surfaces of the phalanx and phalangine of the digit. If opened and probed they will be found to be limited to the digit (sec- ond, third, and fourth) ; that of the fifth digit being continued into the common sheath of the long flexor tendons, in the