117 ANTERIOR OF THIGH. artery (page 115). At present it is exposed in its course upon the anterior surfaces of the adductor brevis and magnus mus- cles ; it lies close to, and parallel with the femur, and gives off three branches : the first, the second, and the third perforating. They are called perforating, because they pass through open- ings in the adductor brevis and magnus muscles, to distribute in the posterior plane of the thigh ; the terminal end of the ar- tery also perforates the adductor magnus muscle. In its course the artery affords muscle branches to the adductor magnus muscle, some of which also pass to the posterior plane of the limb. Dissection.—Turn off the femoral vein over Poupart's ligament; deter- mine the interspace between the pectineus and the psoas magnus muscles ; make a longitudinal cut through the pectineus, and reflect its proximal por- tion to its attachment to the horizontal ramus of the os pubis, where it may be cut or turned off. Kestore the femoral vein to the surface of the psoas magnus muscle. In reflecting the portion of the pectineus muscle, respect the anterior portion of the obturator nerve and the obturator artery. Trace the branches of the anterior portion of the obturator nerve; clear the obtu- rator artery; look for the accessory obturator nerve, which, when-present, passes beneath the pectineus muscle. 37. Internal Circumflex Artery, Plates 63 and 64.—This artery is a branch from the inner side of the profunda femoris ; it passes to the inner side of the limb, posterior to the adduc- tor longus muscle, to distribute to the adductor muscles. 3§. Pectineu§ Muscle, Plates 59, 61 to 64 inclusive, and Fig. 1, Plate 93.—This muscle has its proximal attachment to the exterior and superior surfaces of the horizontal ramus of the os pubis of the os innoininatum ; thence it has a distal and oblique course, forming the inner portion of the floor of Scarpa's triangle (page 111), to its distal attachment to the femur, at the inner side of the proximal open angle of the linea aspera. 39. Obturator Nerve, Plates 64 and 65.—This nerve, from the lumbar plexus (described page 78, and illustrated Plates 39, 40, 41 and 46), emerges from the pelvis, under cover of the pectineus muscle, at the anterior and inner angle of the thy- roid foramen, and anterior to the border of the obturator ex- ternus muscle. It divides into two portions, an anterior and a