335 SUPERFICIAL REGION OF THE FACE. superior maxillary bone, externally to the infra-orbital foramen (Plate 181); inferiorly, it fuses with the superior portion of the orbicularis oris muscle, superiorly to the angle of the lips (Fig. 2, Plate 184). 26. Infra-orbital Nerve, Fig. 2, Plate 184.—This nerve—the terminal branch of the superior maxillary division of the sen- sory root of the trifacial nerve—emerges to the superficial region of the face, at the infra-orbital foramen; it presents a leash of nerves, which pass between the muscles of the superior maxillary region, to distribute to the skin of the cheek, su- perior lip, and nose. 2*. Infra-orbital Artery. — This artery (vense comites), branch of the internal maxillary artery in the deep region of the face, appears in the superficial region of the face, by the infra- orbital foramen ; it distributes to the contiguous muscles, etc., and anastomoses with the facial and nasal arteries. Dissection.—Section (Plate 183), and clear away, the superior portions of the depressor anguli oris and depressor labii inferioris muscles ; expose the mental nerve and artery, and the levator menti muscle. 28. Mental Nerve.—This nerve, branch of the inferior den- tal nerve within the dental canal of the inferior maxillary bone, is projected from the mental foramen (Plate 181), to distribute to the skin of the chin and inferior lip. 29. Mental Artery.—This artery (vense comites), branch of the inferior dental artery within the dental canal, appears at the mental foramen, with the last-described nerve. 30. Levator Menti Musele, Plates 181, and Fig. 2, 184.— This small muscle is attached : superiorly, to the anterior sur- face of the body of the inferior maxillary bone inferiorly to the alveolus of the lateral incisor tooth (Plate 181); inferiorly, it fuses with the skin of the chin at the side of the median line (Fig. 2, Plate 184). Dissection.—-Dissect away (Fig. 1, Plate 184), the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, and display : the corrugator supercilii muscle ; the palpebral ligament; the tarsi of the eyelids ; and the internal and external tarsal ligaments. Cut out the sutures from the borders of the eyelids and remove the oakum pos-