425 PARTS OF THE BKAIN. 38. Anterior Transverse Section of the Ba§al Ganglia of the Cerebrum, Fig. 1, Plate 219.—This section of a hemisphere of the cerebrum presents the following: the fissure of Sylvius between the anterior portion of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, inferiorly, and the central lobe, and the operculum of the frontal lobe, superiorly. Internally to, and running parallel with, the central lobe, is a line of grey neural tissue, the claustrum ; in- ternally to the claustrum is the external capsule—white neural tissue—of the basal ganglia ; internally to the external capsule is the nucleus lenticular is—grey neural tissue—of the extra- ventricular portion of the corpus striatum ; the internal cap- sule of the basal ganglia is internally to the nucleus lenticu- laris ; the anterior portion of the thalamus opticus is between the internal capsule and the cavity of the third ventricle of the brain; superiorly to the external portion of the thalamus op- ticus is the anterior portion of the nucleus caudatus or intra- ventricular projection of the corpus striatum. Dissection.—Cut the right hemisphere of the cerebrum, along the poste- rior, transverse, section line, shown at the right half of Fig. 1, Plate 218. Re- move the slice of the cerebrum anteriorly to the cut. 39. Posterior Transverse Section of the Basal Ganglia of the Cerebrum, Fig. 2, Plate 219.—This section, of a hemisphere of the cerebrum, presents the same parts of the basal ganglia of the cerebrum as the anterior section, described above, with this difference : the thalamus opticus occupies a much larger area ; the nucleus lenticular is has a smaller area ; the nucleus cau- datus is very much smaller, and is located externally to the superior portion of the thalamus opticus. Dissection.—Eemove the temporo-sphenoidal and occipital lobes of the left hemisphere of the cerebrum, by cutting through the left posterior pillar of the fornix and the splenium of the corpus callosum, out into the posterior part of the longitudinal fissure (Fig. 2, Plate 218). Cut away the frontal lobe of the left hemisphere of the cerebrum, by the anterior section line from the thalamus opticus out into the anterior portion of the longitudinal fissure (shown on the left side of Fig. 1, Plate 218). Eemove the temporo-sphenoidal and occipital lobes of the right hemisphere of the cerebrum, by the oblique cut through the posterior portion of the right thalamus opticus (as on the left side of Fig. 1, Plate 218), and the cut through the right posterior pillar of the fornix and the splenium of the corpus callosum (as shown, on the left side, in Fig. 2, Plate 218). Hold the cerebellum and medulla oblongata so as to ex- pose the interior of the fourth ventricle of the brain (as in Fig. 1, Plate 220).