151 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., rejerred to, see under their special heads. Blackberries—continued. mace, and half that weight of cardamoms. These should all be well bruised in a mortar before putting into the spirit. Take 161b. of large ripe Blackberries and mash them thoroughly with a fruit-masher, or with a pestle in a large mortar, adding to the spirit as soon as done. Allow these all to macerate for at least a fortnight, then strain off the juice through a coarse sieve, pressing the residue thoroughly either in a press or by squeezing in a bag or cloth. Strain the juice two or three times through a tammy cloth. Pre- pare a thin syrup by boiling 21b. of sugar in 3galls. of water, and add this to the spirit and juice. Filter into bottles through a funnel lined with filtering- or blotting-paper, and cork securely to preserve for use. Sometimes the oils of cinnamon, or cassia, and cloves are used instead of the spices, in which case teaspoonful of each will suffice. (2) Soak lgall. of crushed Blackberries in lgall. of good brandy for five or six days ; strain off the liquor, dissolve 21b. of loaf sugar in it, and in two or three weeks filter off and put into bottles for use. (3) Take 51b. of Blackberries, crush them, put them with their juice into a large jar with a narrow mouth, and add 4qts. of brandy, or any other spirit over proof. Put in also 1 teaspoonful of crushed mace, 1 teaspoonful of crushed cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of crushed cloves, and twelve crushed cardamom-seeds. Put a large cork in the jar to keep it air- tight, and let it stand for a fortnight. Boil 21b. of sugar in 1 pint of water, taking the scum off as it rises, till a little of it put in a saucer thickens as it cools. Strain the spirit from the fruit and spice, add the syrup, mix together, and put it into a clean jar so corked as to be air-tight; let it stand for a fortnight, then strain it again, and bottle, corking the bottles and sealing them to keep them air-tight. Blackberry Cordial.—This is a very tasty preparation, and might be better known in England than it is. As a specific for summer diarrhoea it has gained a great reputation in America. (1) A very simple mode of preparing this is to put lgall. of brandy in a 3gall. wide-mouthed jar, or keg, fill it up with Blackberries, cover it over tightly, and set away to macerate for three months. Then pour off the liquor through a sieve, squeezing the fruit well, so as to get all the liquor you can. Measure it, and to every quart add £lb. of crushed loaf sugar, 1 pint of good port wine, and 1 pint of pure water. Strain through a tammy cloth, bottle, and cork thoroughly. Leave it for six weeks before using. (2) To each pound of Blackberries allow £lb. of moist sugar, mix well, and put into large wide-mouthed jars, filling them up with brandy to cover the fruit. Add 1 teaspoonful each of cloves and allspice to each gallon jar, cover, and leave three weeks to macerate. Pour off the liquor, squeeze the fruit thoroughly, filter through a tammy cloth, bottle, and cork. This may be served with water. (3) Spon gives a very elaborate receipt, which is, although simplified in some particulars, as follows: Soak 16oz. of dried Blackberries in a little water, and express, repeating the process of adding water and expressing until 6| pints of juice are obtained ; or, if the berries are fresh, first express the juice of them and then wash the residue with water and express again, repeating this until G£ pints are collected. Mix with this C.j- pints of juice, lqt. of brandy, 1J pints of port wine, and 1 pint of spirits of wine. Moisten the following powdered spices and root with this liquor and pack them in a percolator, allowing the spirit to pass through, and drain: lib. of powdered Blackberry root (possibly for the sake of the extra astringency given by the tannin), l§oz. of powdered mace, 9 drachms of powdered cassia, and 5 drachms each of powdered allspice and cloves. Measure off what has passed through the spices in the percolator, and pour on water to run through to the extent of 10 pints in all. Then stir in 51b. of powdered loaf sugar, let it dissolve, and then filter and bottle. A better plan would be to measure the liquor percolated before adding the water, and then to percolate sufficient water to make the 10 pints, receiving it in a separate vessel. The 51b. of sugar might then bo dissolved in the percolated water by gentle heat, and when cold added to the spirit. In this way the difficulty of dissolving the sugar in the spirit would be overcome. The percolation of the water would be for the purpose of washing through any spirit Blackberries—continued. or flavour of the spice that might be remaining after the SDirit percolation had ceased. (4) Simmer together for half-an-liour in a large stewpan closely covered to prevent evaporation, 2qts. of Blackberry juice, lib. of loaf sugar, four grated nutmegs, ioz. of ground cloves, Joz. of ground allspice, and Joz. of ground cinnamon. Strain through a cloth, and when cold add 1 pint of best brandy. Very old whisky may be used instead of the brandy, but is not so generally liked. (5) Take i bushel of Blackberries, mash them well, and boil in their own juice for an hour with lib. of pounded allspice and 2oz. of pounded cloves. Strain through a cloth, and then dissolve lib. of powdered loaf sugar in each pint of juice. Boil up again, and when cold add igall. of best brandy. Bottle and cork for use. (G) Crush lgall. of ripe Blackberries, and macerate for a week in lgall. of brandy ; then express the liquor, dissolve in it 21b. of loaf sugar, and in the course of a week or two strain through flannel into bottles. Blackberry Dessert.—Put lqt. of Blackberries into a sauce- pan with lqt. of sugar and 1 teacupful of water, and cook them until done. Turn them out on to a dish, and serve with powdered cracker, sugar, and cream, on another dish. Blackberry or American Down-Bast Pudding-.—Put 1 pint of molasses into a basin, and mix with it lqt. of flour, 1 tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and 3 pints of Blackberries, previously picked and cleaned of leaves, &c. Put this mixture into a basin and boil it for three hours. When done, turn it out, and serve with sauce made with 1 teacupful of butter beaten to a cream, the same quantity of caster sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of brandy added very gradually. Beat in the yolk of an egg, and when this is creamy add the white, previously beaten to a froth; lastly, stir in carefully 2 teaspoonfuls of boiling water. Blackberry Jam.—Pick over carefully and remove tho stalks of as much fruit as you propose to preserve, and see that it is ripe and dry, for which reason it should be gathered in the early morning. Allow from lib. to Jib. of crushed preserving sugar to every lib. of tho fruit. Put the fruit and sugar into the preserving-pan as you weigh it, and then place them over a very slow fire, or turned-down gas-stove, so as to warm the whole without burning. By this time tho juice will begin to run from the berries, and stirring with a wooden spoon must bo continued without ceasing, as from the first. In course of time the contents of the pan will begin to simmer, at which heat tho jam must be kept until it sets nicely when dropped on a cold plate. Skimming is not necessary, as the jam keeps well if what little scum might rise is stirred in. Put in jars, and when cold tie down in tho usual way. Blackberry Jam ■with Apples —Take any kind of good cooking apples, pare, core, and chop them up, and mix with tho Blackberries (selected as for Blackberry Jam) to tho extent of half their weight; put both in the preserving-pan, with, at the very least, 3|lb. of coarsely-bi-oten preserving sugar to every 41b. of fruit. Proceed in every other way as for Blackberry Jam. The juice and grated rind of one lemon may be added to the foregoing to each lib. of fruit with considerable advan- tage to the flavour. The seeds may be removed from the Blackberries by rubbing the partly-boiled fruit through a fine hair sieve. Blackberry Jelly.—(1) Proceed as for Blackberry Jam so far as picking and selecting the fruit. Then partly cook the Blackberries in the preserving-pan with % pint of water to every 41b. of fruit, or bake in a crock in the oven in the same way until soft enough to squeeze through a tammy cloth or flannel jelly-bag. Then put Jib. of coarsely- broken preserving sugar to every pint of juice, and boil slowly for at least three-quarters-of-an-hour, or until, when poured on to a cold plate or slab, it “ jellies,” that is, sets firm as it cools. Pot and tie down when cold. (2) Equal parts of bullaees and Blackberries treated in the manner described mako a very nice jelly. (3) Half the quantity of apples may also bo added, and nicely sharpened up with the juice and grated rind of a lemon to every 21b. of fruit.