165 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Far details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Boiling—continued. Foods rich in albumen, and with soft fibrous tissue, require to be put in the hottest water at once; fibrous food is better for cold water; the whole secret of boiling depending on the softening or breaking up of fibre by dissolving out its gelatine, and hardening or coagulating the albumen. Gelatine is soluble in boiling water, but albumen hardens in it, and is not. The following tables should be of some service to the cook, as pointing out the time required for boiling and simmering after once the water has reached the boiling- point as nearly as it can. Remember always that when the material to be boiled is put into the water, however hot, it reduces its temperature greatly; therefore the heat should be applied as briskly as ever until the water boils again, and then it may be drawn to one side to simmer. Times Required for Boiling. Artichokes, Jerusalem Asparagus Beetroot Broccoli Brussels Sprouts Cabbage Carrots (according to age) Cauliflower French Beans ... Greens ... Onions (according to size) Parsnips (according to size) ... Peas, Green (according to age) Spinach ... Crabs (according to size) Lobster (according to size) ... Salmon (according to size of piece or fish) Steak Pudding (according to size) about J hour. i to 1 hour. 1 to 3 or 4 hours. 15 to 20min. 10 to 15min. 1 to 1 hour. 20min. to f hour. 15 to 20min. 15 to 20min. about 25min. 1 to 2 hours. 35min. to li hours. 15min. to i hour. 12 to 15min. 20min. to f hour. 20min. to | hour. 1 lOmin. to each lb. 3i to 4 hours. Times Requibed for Simmering. Bacon (from 21b. upwards) 1| hours upwards. Beef, Aitchbone (about 101b.)... about 2j hours. „ Brisket (about 101b.) „ 2f hours. „ Round (about 201b.) ,, 5 hours. Calf’s Head (with skin on, put into cold water first) ... j 3 to 4 hours. Calf’s Head (with skin off, put into cold water first) ... | 2J to 3J hours. Calf’s Feet (put into cold water first) 6 to 7 hours. Ham (about 151b.) 4 to 5 hours. Mutton, Leg (about 91b.) about 2i hours. „ Neck (about 71b.) „ 2 hours. Ox-tongue, Fresh „ 2i hours. „ Salt (put into cold water first) j „ 3J hours. Pig’s Cheek „ 2J hours. Pig’s Feet ,, 3 hours. Pork, Leg (about 81b.) „ 3 hours. „ Hand (about 61b.) Veal, Breast (about 71b.) ,, 2J hours. ,, 2| hours. „ Knuckle (about 71b.) „ 2j hours. Chicken (according to size and age)... ^ to J hour. Fowl (according to size) 1 to 1J hours. Partridge about 20min. Pigeon ... „ 20min. Turkey (according to size) 1£ to 2^ hours. Cod (according to size of piece or fish) 30 to 40min. Herrings about lOmin. John Dory 10 to 20min. Mackerel 15 to 20min. Skate 12 to 20min. Soles 6 to 12min. Turbot (about 151b., put into cold ) water first) ... ) 35 to 40mln' The articles quoted in the above tables are sufficient to supply a very useful general estimate for all pur- poses. In many receipts special mention is made of the time required for cooking. As a general rule, cooks allow a quarter-of-an-liour Boiling—continued. per lb. for young meat, small pieces, and poultry; but twenty minutes is not too long for older and primer meat and large pieces. After boiling up, it is not necessary to keep the temperature of the water above 170deg. Fahr., because all that is required is the soften- ing of the fibrous tissue, which takes place at a much lower temperature, and the gradual setting of the albumen, whioli coagulates at Kildog. Fain-. Hard water is generally chosen for boiling albu- minous foods, and salt (2oz. to the gallon) is sometimes added for this purpose; but soft water is powerfully solvent, and frequently bicarbonate of soda (|oz. to the gallon) is added to soften hard water for boiling fibrous vegetables and fibrous fish. The invention of gas-stoves for boiling has effected quite a revolution in this culinary process; but the kitchener or old open range answers very well if carefully attended. Cooks are apt to leave the stoking of a grate to a kitchen hand, who entertains notions of saving labour by stoking up high, and letting it burn low, a system which interrupts the regular process of boiling. Let it be remembered that all liquors in which foods have been boiled contain some amount of nourishment, such as gelatine, meat juice, or vegetable albumen, for which reason they should never be thrown away, but used as stock for soup or broth if possible. It is there- fore advisable, for this and other reasons already explained, to boil joints in as little water as possible, just enough to cover the meat, and as the liquor boils away it can be renewed by adding hot water, not cold. For small joints, or pieces of meat, fish, or poultry, boiling is a very wasteful process unless it is intended to make use of the stock. When boiling fish, excepting small ones, simmering only is necessary, or, as the fibrous tissue is generally very delicate, hard or salted water should be used. The addition of ^ gill of vinegar to the gallon of water is much recommended, tending not only to harden the water, but to whiten the flesh of the fish. Before closing this article, it is advisable to mention that the density of the atmosphere exercises an extra- ordinary influence over boiling; so much so that at the top of a high mountain such as Mont Blanc, water will boil at such a low temperature that it is quite impossible to cook meat or vegetables, or boil eggs. This is very easily explained: the higher we go, the rarer or less dense the atmosphere becomes; and as the density of water, which is naturally elastic, depends upon the density of the air above it, the higher we go the rarer or less dense the water becomes; wherefore, as before explained, the degree of temperature at which a fluid boils depending upon its density, the mountain water boils at a much lower temperature than 212deg. Fahr., or lOOdeg. Cent., decreasing the higher we go. This fact led an ingenious French chemist—Papin by name—to invent a sort of stockpot (“Papin’s Digester”), the lid of which screws down, and the only escape for the steam and heated air is through a valvular opening in the top of the lid, which requires a considerable pressure from within to raise the weight. In this way, the pressure on the water could be kept up, and perhaps a little in increase of what it would otherwise be; hence the degree of temperature at which the water boils is considerably increased, and the cooking goes on as before, no matter how high the mountain may be. BOLOGNA.—This is the name of a town in Italy, celebrated in the annals of culinary history as the birth- place of a famous sausage named after it, made of various meats, such as beef, pork, veal, goat’s flesh, ham and bacon fat, spiced and pounded together, put into skins, and smoked. In Italy it is known as the “ Satsiccia di Bologna,” and is looked upon by all classes as a spicy morsel. The peasants make it wholesale for family use