168 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Boning—continued. Boning Ribs of Beef. — Ribs of Beef require the same style of working, on a larger scale, as a chop does; and a ready facility acquired by practising on such joints serves the cook in good stead when boning fish or poultry. BONNES BOUCHES.—The literal translation of this French term •would he “ good months,” and it might perhaps he better expressed as “bouchees”— “monthfuls”—a word more generally adopted by modern cooks. Bonnes Bouches of Chicken with Truffles.—Take two chickens, which should be boned, boil them until tender, remove all the meat from the skin, and chop it up rather fine ; next chop up four large truffles also fine, put these into a stewpan with £ pint of good white sauce and a little chicken glaze, bring to a boil, and add six yolks of eggs; season well with cayenne pepper and salt, bring to a boil again, pour out upon a flat dish, allow it to set, and proceed as in the directions given for Bonnes Bouches of Oysters. Bonnes Bouches of Oysters. —Take two dozen oysters, put them on the stove in a stewpan with just enough liquor to cover them, bring them to a boil, and strain them, reserving the liquor. Put into a stewpan 2oz. each of fresh butter and sifted flour, knead well together, work in slowly the liquor from the oysters, add 1 gill of cream, and season well with cayenne and salt. Beard the oysters, cut the soft parts into small square pieces, and chop the hard parts up very fine; put into the stewpan with the sauce, which should be of rather a stiff consistency, add six yolks of eggs and joz. of gelatine, bring the whole to a boil, see that it is nicely seasoned, pour out upon a flat dish, and stand in a cool place or upon the ice to set. Next rub through a wire sieve some stale bread, and when the Bonnes Bouches mixture is set, cut it out into pieces about ^in. thick, ljin. long, and lin. wide, throwing them into the breadcrumbs; take them out, pat them into shape ag-ain, and put them into some well- beaten eggs; take them out and pass them through the crumbs again, keeping them in shape, fry them in hot lard to a nice golden colour, dish upon a napkin or fancy dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Bonnes Bouches a la Parisienne.—Put into a stewpan pint of white sauce; chop up about £ pint of goose’s fat liver in small square pieces, and put this into the stewpan with some truffles, white mushrooms chopped very fine, six yolks of eggs, and a very little gelatine. Bring to a boil, season well with cayenne pepper and salt, add a few breadcrumbs, pour out upon a dish, allow it to set, and proceed as in the foregoing directions for Bonnes Bouches of Oysters. BONNE FEMME SOUP.—See Soups. BONNET DE TUR^UIE. — A piece of pasty made to resemble a Turk’s cap. BORAGE.—The leaves and dowers (Fig. 179) of the Borage- plant (Borago officinalis) are not much used in English cookery excepting for flavouring claret cup and other similar concoctions. Borage grows wild in our fields and hedges, and yields a dis- tinctive aromatic flavour. BORDEAUX. — The name fig. 179. Borage given to a class of wines (clarets) Flower. made from grapes grown in the Bordelais districts. They are amongst those which reach us in the purest and most natural state, and are valued accordingly. See Wines. BORDEAUX SAUCE.—See Sauces. BORDELAISE, A EA.—This term is used in cookery to signify in Bordeaux style, as Sauce d la Borde- laise. BORDERS (Fr. Bordures; Ger. Randen; It. and Sp. Bordos).—Some very pretty dishes, especially suitable for ball suppers, can be prepared by moulding fruit or savoury jellies in ring-shaped moulds, and filling the SovAevs—continued. centres with some sort of entremets suitable to be eaten with the jellies. As this class of dishes are peculiar to themselves, receipts for their preparation are given under the name of any particular meat or fruit that might enter into their composition; and it may be here Fig. 180. Specimens of Border Moulds. (Designs by Adams and Son.) observed that the mould is not always used so as to form a solid ring, but that the materials are sometimes arranged in the form of a wall, and the softer contents placed within. See also Aspic, Potatoes, Rice, &c. BORSCH.—See Barszcz. _ BOSH BUTTER.—A very _ inferior kind of imita- tion butter, manufactured in Hamburg, and sent over to this country for the purposes of adulterating butter. BOSTON PUDDING.—See Puddings. BOTARGO.—See Boutargue. BOTTLES.—If it were of sufficient practical value, a most interesting story could be written about Bottles, commencing with the earliest historical record we have of their use, and tracing each periodical improvement till we arrive at the clever productions of the present era. Of the many kinds of Bottles that exist now it would be beyond the power of man to enumerate, or render any accurate account, from the stone ginger-beer Bottle to the finely-cut crystal decanter; from the Bottle of golden liqueur to the phial of nauseous physic; from the Bottle of blacking to the lady’s gold-mounted vinaigrette; and yet all apparently originated with the first Bottle that was made some 500 years ago. Bottles have been not only made of glass’ and earthen- ware, but of a variety of substances, such as leather, metal, and india-rubber; and in some parts the bottle- gourd, cocoa-nut, bamboo (between the nodes), and ostrich eggs have been adapted to such a use. But our interest is chiefly with those in use at the present day to hold wines, liqueurs, beers, and other beverages and foods, and they are sufficiently familiar to require no further special mention. BOTTLING.—This has now reached the dignified position of a fine art, so much have its exponents done for it in the way of improving the apparatus and bottles used therein. The aerated water trade has taken the lead, and surpassed anything that could possibly have been anticipated from it, or from any other class of Bottling, such as wines or beers, both of which appear to have remained stationary for centuries. The aerated- water-bottling machine, judging from those exhibited at the Brewers’ Exhibition, has now reached such a degree of perfection that it is made to perform three distinct operations—viz., syruping, filling, and stoppering the bottles—almost simultaneously, and requires no skilled hand to work it. The old-fashioned method of Bottling by hand and knee directly from the tap, had many disadvantages, the chief being that it required much practice to get rid of the air in the bottle, and to