212 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Buns—continued. a fork, and bake for ten minutes; take them out, brush over with milk, put them in the oven, and finish baking1. (2) Kub Jib. of fresh butter into lib. of fine white flour ; when quite smooth, add fib. of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of salt; mix, and add four well-beaten eggs, \ teacupful of rose-water, and sufficient milk to form a thick batter. Knead with f pint of fresh yeast, cover it, and put in a warm place till the next morning; then knead again, and let it rise. Three-parts fill some shallow buttered tins with the dough, and bake in a slow oven. When done, let them cool, cut them into squares, and sift some caster sugar over the tops, putting them back into the oven for a couple of minutes. See Pig. 228. Sweet Buns Made Without Egg's.—Work 2oz. of butter with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of light bread dough, mix in 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of sugar, and flavour with grated nutmeg or powdered cinnamon. Let the dough stand in a warm tempera- ture for an hour, then turn it on to a table over which has been dusted a small quantity of flour, and knead it well till it is full of air-bubbles, silky-looking, and elastic. Leave the dough in a warm place, and covered, for an hour longer, then knead it again, divide it into small equal portions, and roll these into round balls with the hands. Butter a baking-sheet, put the balls on it, flatten them slightly, brush them with warmed butter at the sides where they may touch, and let them rise for an hour longer. Bake the Buns in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. When they are cooked, brush the tops over with syrup, and sift a small quantity of granulated sugar over them. BUONBOCCONI.—The Genoese are famous for the dishes prepared by them under this name. Indeed, they may be regarded as national dishes, and Dubois declares that, prepared as he directs, they are fit for the table of a king. The name signifies “ good mouthfuls,” and, therefore, corresponds exactly to the French “ Bonnes Bouches.” Steep in cold water lib. of beef-marrow, sponge it, pound in a mortar, and rub it through a sieve. Cut in small pieces 5oz. or 6oz. of the candied peels of lemon, orange, and citron, pound these peels also, and pass them through a sieve; then pound them up with the beef-marrow, and put the whole into a basin, work well with a spoon, add 2 table- spoonfuls of orange-flavoured sugar, 1 pinch of orange* Fig. 229. Buonbocconi. blossoms chopped and crisped (pralines) like burnt almonds, and one or two yolks of eggs. The preparation should be thick and consistent. Take fib. of trimmings of puff paste, or else fine short paste, and roll it out thin on a floured slab; with half of this flat, mark several ovals or rounds with a biscuit-cutter l|in. in diameter, moisten the edges of these shapes with the wet paste-brush, then put on the centre of each a little bit of the marrow preparation rolled up into Buonbocconi—continued. a ball to about the size of a pigeon’s egg. From the rest of the flat of paste cut the same quantity of ovals or rounds, larger than the first; with these cover the marrow prepa- ration, soldering them to the paste beneath ; press both the flats on all round in order to solder them down well, then cut them out with the paste-cutter; place these fritters (see Fig. 229), one beside the other, on a floured cloth. Have warmed, at the entrance of the oven, -1-lb. of caster sugar. A few minutes previous to serving, plunge the Buonbocconi into hot hog’s lard or butter, fry to a light golden colour, drain, roll them in the warm sugar, and dish them piled up (see Fig. 230) on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper in a glass dish. Serve hot. BURBOT.—See Eel-pout. BURDWAN.—This Indian dish answers in every respect to our hash or ragout, and provides an excellent method of using up cold meat. (1) Any kind of cold cooked meat can be used for this dish, but if raw meat only is available, it must be partially boiled first. Place in a stewpan 1 teacupful of stock, a small onion, 1 small pinch of cayenne pepper, 1 gill of white wine, 1 teaspoonful of butter, half-a-dozen chillies, a little garlic, and the juice of half a lemon, and stir them all well together over a moderate fire. Then cut up the meat rather small, put it in the pan, place it again on the fire, and let it simmer gently until done. Squeeze a little lemon-juice over it, and put it on a dish with a border of boiled rice; or the rice may be served in a separate dish. (2) Put 1 pint of cold water in a stewpan, and add 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, loz. of butter, a little cayenne pepper, and loz. of flour; mix these well together, and then add loz. of finely-minced onion and Joz. of shallots, also finely minced. Place it on the fire, let it simmer for fifteen or twenty minutes, and then add 2 wineglassfuls of white wine and 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar; put the stewpan on the side of the fire, and then put in some cold meat cut into small pieces. When the meat is hot through, let the pan remain near the fire for half-an-hour, but do not let the contents boil. (3) Use either cold meat or poultry. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of stock or good gravy in a stewpan, add 1 saltspoonful of cayenne, a dash each of Worcester sauce and ketchup, the juice of half a lemon, and 1 teaspoonful of pickled cucumber vinegar. Place the stewpan over the fire until it comes to the boil, then put in the meat, and let it simmer until wanted. This cannot be served too hot. BURGOO.—The seaman’s term for oatmeal pudding and thick gruel. Sometimes, also, this is spelled Burgout or Bourgout, which would probably be a corruption of the two words bourgeois and gout. A celebrated Kentucky historian declares Burgoo to be one of the oldest dishes known in the Southern States, and that pots of it have simmered over a hot fire in the sun at every big political gathering thereabouts. As described by this writer, Burgoo is a sort of cross between a soup and a