3 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. B & C 2 ACIDS.—There are several of these used in cookery and confectionery, such as Acetic Acid, Carbonic Acid, Hydrochloric Acid, Salicylic Acid, Sulphuric Acid, Tar- taric Acid, &c. Refer to those headings. ACITRON.—Sp. for citron dried and made into sweetmeat; candied lemon-peel. ACORN (literally, oak(ac)corn).—At an early period of barbaric existence this fruit of the oak was ground into meal to make a kind of cake, or bread. In modern times it is regarded as food lit only for hogs, and even that is disputed. It is stated that in Germany Acorns are some- times chopped up and roasted to be used medicinally by invalids as coffee; by this process of roasting much of their intense astringency is destroyed. ACQUACEDRATA .—Ital. for water sweetened with sugar and flavoured with lemon-peel—a sort of lemonade. ADELAIDE PUDDING.—See Puddings. ADELAIDE CAKES.—See Cakes. ADELAIDE SANDWICHES.—See Sandwiches. ADJOUE.—A paste made of dates, which the Arabs carry about with them to mix with water and make a refreshing drink. ADMIRAL’S SAUCE.—See Sauces. ADULTERATIONS. — It would be impossible to perfect a work of this kind without saying a few words upon this bane of commerce and health. The craze for cheap goods has fostered the evil; but the Acts of Parlia- ment affecting it—which would be better if they were more rigidly enforced—make the penalties so heavy, that the risk of loss by exposure and fine would exceed the value of the gain. Unfortunately, the passing of an Act does not always ensure its activity; hence, in the case par- ticularly of tinned and preserved foods, the Adulteration still carried on is prodigious. The great secret of its avoidance is to buy of the best makers only. Any pur- chaser can have food analysed by the public analyst on payment of a fee of 10s. 6d. The penalty for the first detected offence of adulteration is, should a conviction ensue, a fine not exceeding £50. The following are a few of the more common Adulterations: Allspice, with mustard-husks; Anchovies, with Armenian bole, Yenetian red, red ochre, &c.; Arrowroot, with cheaper starches— sago, tapioca, potato; Bread, with potatoes, alum, and inferior or diseased flour; Butter, with colouring matter, water, salt, lard, tallow, and other fats; Cayenne, with ground rice, vermilion, Venetian red, and turmeric; Cheese, with colouring matter; Chicory, with colouring matters, such as ferruginous earths, burnt sugar, and Venetian red, and different flours, such as wheat, rye, beans, and sometimes sawdust; Cloves, with clove-stalks; Cocoa and Chocolate, with arrowroot and other starchy matters; Coffee, with chicory and its adulterations (it is better to buy the roasted beans, and grind fresh for use); Confectionery, with dangerous colouring matters, especially in aromatic confectionery; Curry Powder, with red lead, ground rice, and salt; Custard and Egg Powders, with turmeric, chrome yellow, and indifferent flours; Flour, with many substances, such as other and inferior flours, rice, beans, Indian corn, potato, sulphate of lime, and alum; Gelatine, with salt and sugar; Ginger (ground), with turmeric and husks of mustard, flour, and sago; Honey, with flour and sugar; Isinglass, with inferior gelatine; Lard, with carbonate of soda, salt, potato, flour, lime; Lemon-juice (in bottles), with sugar and water, acidulated with sulphuric acid; Liquorice, with rice, chalk, gelatine, and cheap flours; Marmalade, with turnip pulp; Milk, with water (the old story of chalk is mythical, as it would be found at the bottom of the vessel after standing, and could not, there- fore, be mistaken for cream); Mustard, with turmeric and wheat-flour; Oatmeal, with barley-flour, and rubble; Pepper, with linseed-meal, cheap flours, mustard-husks, Adulterations—continued. &c.; Pickles, with salts of copper; Porter and Stout, with sugar, treacle, liquorice, water, salt, and “ porter extract ” —a compound of iron, salt, liquorice, treacle, seeds of Paradise, and other abominations, sold to publicans in bladders, and added, by unscrupulous tradesmen, to waste- beer, to make porter; Rum, with water, cayenne, and burnt sugar; Sago, with potato-flour; Sauce, with treacle, salt, cochineal, Armenian bole, and other colouring matters; Sherry, with sulphate of potash, soda, brandy, burnt sugar, &c.; Soda (Bicarbonate), with carbonate and sulphate of soda; Spices, with colouring matters, flour and other substitutions; Sugar, with sand and flour; Tapioca, with inferior starch; Tea, with sand, iron, exhausted tea-leaves, foreign leaves, sloe-leaves, and, in green teas, black lead, Prussian blue, and China clay; Vinegar, with sulphuric acid, and metallic impurities, such as lead; Wines, with water, bitartrate of potash, jerupiga, and various sub- stitutions. See Analysis. AERATED BREAD.—Bread that has been raised by the injection of carbonic-acid gas in lieu of yeast or other leaven. See Bkead. AERATED WATER (Fr. Eau Gaseuse; Ger. Gas- haltige Wasser).-—There are two sorts of popular beverages which come under this title; the one being from natural springs, or medicated, and the other, artificial and re- freshing. Both kinds are impregnated with carbonic-acid gas under high pressure, and are bottled by machinery. , Of the Natural springs, those best known are: Apollinaris.—From the Apollinaris Brunnen Springs in the valley of the Ahr, Germany. It contains the carbonate, chloride, sulphate, and phosphate of soda, salts of potash, carbonates of magnesia and lime, oxides of iron and alumina, and silicic acid. This spring yields at the rate of 6000 quarts in an hour. Carlsbad.— At Carlsbad, in Bohemia, there are several springs, of alkaline and saline composition, containing, in regular propor- tions, sulphates of potash and soda, chloride of soda, carbonates of soda, lime, and magnesia, strontia, alumina, and manganese, oxide of iron, phosphates of alumina and lime, fluoride of lime, and silica. It is strongly recommended in diabetes, gout, and biliary disorders. Should be taken warm. Friedricbsball Bitter.— Obtained from Friedrichshall, near Coburg. Contains sulphates of soda, potash, magnesia, and lime, chlorides of sodium and magnesium, bromide of magnesia, carbonates of lime and magnesia, and the silicate of magnesia. Aperient and diuretic. A few drops of lemon-juice, or a glass of sherry, will take off some of the bitterness. This water keeps good for a length of time. Pullna is a strong purgative, each pint holding in solution about 150 grains of sulphate of soda, 120 grains of sulphate of magnesia (Epsom salts), and other salts.. Rosbach.—In the Wetterau the springs giving this water are found. It is famous because it is so perfectly free from organic impurities. It contains chloride of sodium (common salt) and carbonates of lime and magnesia. Seltzer.—An artificial water of this name is so cheaply supplied by Aerated Water makers that it is doubtful how much of the spring-water is imported here. More than a million bottles of the water are said to be exported annually from Seitz, or Selters, in Nassau, near Mayence. It contains bicarbonates of soda, lime, and magnesia, bromide of iron, chlorides of sodium, and potassium, sulphates and phosphates of sodium, silica, and alumina. Seltzer is very pleasant drinking with brandy or wine, being highly gaseous and digestive. For invalids it is specially recommended with milk. Vicby.—This water can be obtained from several springs, the chief of which are the Grande-grille, Petits puits carre, Grand puits carre, Hopital, Acacias, Lucas, Celestin, Desdames, &c. They are situated in the valley of the Allier, in France, and hold in solution carbonates of soda, lime, and magnesia, chloride of sodium, sulphate of soda, oxide of iron, and silica. Recom- mended in liver complaints and dyspepsia. Wilbelm’s Quelle.—Kronthal, near Frankfort-on-the-Maine, is famous for this very ancient spring. The yield is bright and