THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 74 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Banquets—continued. lounges at either of h h h would he pleasant for those who cared to indulge in a quiet cigar. Table Decorations and Table Service will he treated under these heads. When Music is provided, let it be placed in a gallery or loft if possible. If a platform or stage has been built, it should be behind the “chair,” and let this sort of entertainment be of the very softest character. Singing, either plaintive or comic, is not suited to a Banquet, neither is a brass nor military band. There should be no sound sufficiently marked or noisy to interrupt conversation. A Banquet should not be mis- taken for or confounded with a concert, and the caterer should understand that amongst that large congregation of guests it is quite possible some conversationalists may be found. The speech infliction is quite bad enough, but an essential of the gathering. The old formalities of “The Queen”; “The Army, Navy, and Yolunteers”; “The House of Lords”; “The Commons”; and others, could be amassed in one, to be drunk in silence thus : “ England, her Queen and Constitution ”—the band (chiefly strings and flutes) should here be heard in a soft, dreamy sound playing “ God save the Queen! ” and gliding almost imperceptibly into “ Rule Britannia! ” instead of bursting out with drums and trumpets, giving a decided headache to many, and promoting indigestion. After this may commence the business of the Banquet, and an address from the Chairman, followed by the Yice and others who are called upon to speak. In this way more business may be got through in a short time, and more time given to enjoy the Banquet, for which in most cases a high price of admission has been paid. BAR.—This fish is frequently mistaken for the haddock, to which it bears some slight resemblance, but differs materially in the quality of its flesh. Continental cooks consider it to be superior for culinary purposes to salmon, but it is so very scarce that many cooks are unaware of its existence. This may be due in a measure to the fact that, although actually a sea-fish, it frequents the mouths of rivers, and may therefore be considered out of the way of the deep-sea fisherman. It is described as a well-shaped fish, weighing frequently as much as 151b. Its body is round, and the flesh is white and firm, with a very fine flavour, and therefore much esteemed by epicures. A silver stripe runs down each side of the back, and in some few respects it also resembles the perch. Fig. 73. Bar, Trimmed for Cooking. Bar Boiled in Court-bouillon.—Scrape off the scales of a Bar, cut the fins short with scissors, and chop the end off the tail with a knife (Fig. 78) ; open the belly and clean it inwardly, stuff with bread-stuffing, sew up the cut, put the fish on a drainer, tying it over three or four times with string to keep it in its place, put it into the fish-kettle, and pour over sufficient court-bouillon to cover it. Set the kettle on the fire and boil, then remove it to the side, and simmer gently for about forty-five minutes. When done, take out, drain, place on a napkin over a drainer on a dish, garnish with potatoes or sprigs of parsley, and serve with anchovy sauce. BAR.—An intoxicating drink made by the Indian tribes of the Western Ghats. BARAQUILLE. ■— This is the name for a very savoury French pasty filled with minced partridge, chicken, veal, sweetbread, truffles, mushrooms, and other good things, seasoned according to taste. It is not Baraquille—continued. much known in this country excepting as a foreign introduction. BARBADOS CRBAM.— See Cordials and Liqueurs. BARBARIE, A LA.—This term is used by Ude for a mode of dressing meat, game, or poultry, and is probably intended to denote something like cruelty in the prepara- tion of the flesh. The principal feature appears to be studding deeply with truffles cut like nails. See Fowls, Partridges, Yeal, &c. BARBE BE CAPUCINE.—French name for a kind of blanched chicory, endive, or succory, very much used in Continental salads. The method of blanching usually adopted is to place the roots of the wild chicory in a dark chamber, and cut off the leaves and shoots as they grow long enough for use; but some persons like Fig. 79. Barge de Capucine. to plant the roots in a closed tub, with several holes in it, through which the leaves shoot, and give to the tub a barbed appearance. Receipts for salad made from endive will be found under that head; but, supposing the Barbe de Capucine to have some special quality, the following receipt is also appended: Take two bunches of clear, white, fresh Barbe de Capucine; clean and wipe them carefully and thoroughly, but do not wash the salad, as this destroys its taste, and renders it too soft for use ; cut it into three shreds, and place it in a salad- bowl. Mix well in a basin 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, J pinch of salt, and J pinch of pepper ; pour this over the salad, then add 1 table-spoonful of oil, mix well, and serve immediately. BARBECUE.—This word signifies to dress and roast an animal whole. Pope writes ; Oldfield, with more than happy throat evoked, Cries, “ Send me, gods, a whole hog barbecued.” The term is derived from the French barbe it queue— beard to tail; but more modern usage has adopted it for other meanings in some way emanating from the original. Thus in America a kind of open-air festival, where animals are roasted whole, is styled a Barbecue. BARBEL (Barbus vulgaris) (Fr. Harbeau ; Ger. Barbe).—This fish is of the carp and goldfish tribe, but differs from them in this, that the upper jaw extends considerably in advance of the lower, and has attached to it four soft barbules—two near the point, and one at each angle of the leathery snout (see Fig. 80). They frequent several European rivers, and afford good sport to the angler, often reaching 2ft. or oft. long, and weighing sometimes as much as 161b. or 181b. The Barbel of the Nile sometimes weighs as much as 701b. It has a long shape, and is in section nearly circular; the general colour of the head and upper part of the body