190 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, 4c., referred to, see under their special heads. Brioches—continued. thirds of the paste, and with floured hands shape it into a ball; then press it into a tin hoop, which should be placed on a baking-sheet. Take the remaining paste, roll that also into a ball, and stick it on the first ball, using beaten egg to make it adhere. Brush the Brioche over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, score the sides with a knife, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for an hour, covering it with a sheet of paper when first tinged with brown. When cooked, turn the cake out of the mould, put it on to a folded napkin on a hot plate, and serve. These cakes can be eaten with butter, and are very nice for breakfast or tea. Brioche d la Conde.—Prepare and cook a Brioche paste. When done, cut it crosswise into halves, and with a spoon spread over the top of the lower half 4oz. of apricot mar- malade, mixed with loz. of melted butter ; replace the other half on top. Put in a saucepan 2oz. of candied cherries, 4oz. of candied apricots cut in slices, and 4oz. of candied pineapple; add £ pint of cold water, and boil well together on a hot fire for three minutes. Dress the Brioche on a dish, pour over the preparation, and serve hot. Brioche Buns.—Put lib. of flour into a basin, mix in loz. of yeast and sufficient lukewarm water to make a stiff sponge, and set it to rise in a warm place. Put fib. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, and work in 1 gill of milk; when the milk is warm, add four well-whipped eggs, and stir the mixture into the sponge to make a stiff batter. Set it to rise again in a warm place for an hour; then sprinkle in sifted crushed loaf sugar to sweeten, and caraway-seeds or currants, and form the mixture into buns; let these rise again, brush them over with beaten egg, put them on a baking-sheet in a hot oven, and bake. When done, take them out, and serve either hot or cold. Brioches Fluttes. — Prepare a Brioche paste, lay it on a floured board, and cut it into twelve equal pieces. Roll out each one separately with the hands until it is about lOin. long, rounding them into shape. Put these on a baking-sheet, and leave them in a hot closet to rise for ten minutes; take them out, glaze them lightly with beaten eggs, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and put them in the oven for ten minutes. Kemove, put them on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve when cold. These Brioches will keep well for three or four days, and they are delicious when served with tea, coffee, or chocolate. Brioche with Madeira Sauce. — German Style. — Make some Brioche paste, half fill a buttered mould with it, and when it is risen to the top, bake. Boil for three minutes 2 pint of Madeira with 41b. of apricot jam that has been rubbed through a hair sieve, stirring thoroughly. Turn the Brioche out of the mould when done, and cut it into four flat rounds, spreading each slice with the apricot mixture, and laying them on top of each other again. Mask the outside with some more of the apricot, and serve the rest in a boat. Brioche Ring'.—Dissolve foz. of German yeast in 1 teacup- ful of warm water, mix with fib. of flour to make a stiff Fig. 212. Ring of Brioche Paste as a Border. dough, put this in a pan with a little warm water over the bottom to prevent it sticking, cover, and let it remain in a warm place to rise. Mix with 41b. of flour, 8oz. or 9oz. of butter, three eggs, 1 pinch of salt, and 2 pinches of sugar, and work well with the hands for twelve minutes; add three eggs gradually when quite smooth and soft, and work in the dough for about ten minutes. Pull this in little pieces, put Brioches—continued. it in a basin, a,nd let it rise in a warm temperature to nearly double its original size; then beat well with floured hands on a floured table, flatten and fold it several times, put it in a basin, and keep in a cool place for four hours; then turn and roll it again, and keep in a cool place for an hour. When firm, shape it in a ball, put it on a baking-sheet, flatten, and form a hollow in the centre so as to make a ring (see Pig. 212); then glaze it, and bake in a hot oven for twenty or thirty minutes. Brioche Tea-cake.—Sift on a board lib. of fine flour; dis- solve loz. of German yeast in 1 teacupful of warm water, and mix up with about a quarter of the flour, so as to form a soft dough; have in a stowpan 4 teacupful of warm water, place the dough in it, cover over, and let it rise to double the size. Mix fib. of warmed butter and five eggs together, add the remainder of the flour, 2 dessei’t-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and work it well with both hands until smooth; lay it out on the board, and spread the sponge on the top ; roll it up again, put it in a basin, and let it rise for six hours in a cool place. When risen, work again with the hands, and place in a warm temperature till it rises to double its original size; when risen, beat it on a floured board with well-floured hands, flatten it, fold the corners over to the centre, place on a tin or baking-sheet, and keep it on ice for half-an-hour. Get a Brioche-mould (see Fig. 211), Gin. wide and rather low, and butter it; take two- thirds of the paste, make it into a ball with tho hands, put it in, and press well into the folds of the mould; form the remainder of the paste in a round shape. With wet fingers make a bay in tho paste in the mould, put the other paste in it, and glaze over with egg; set in a moderate oven, cover with paper as soon as it begins to colour, and bake for an-hour-and-a-quarter. When done, let it remain for about five minutes, then turn out, and leave to cool. Brioche Timbale with Fruit.—(1) Boll out some Brioche paste prepared as previously described to fin. in thickness, and line a plain mould with it; put in a buttered saute-pan five cooking pears, peeled, cored, and cut in quarters, sprinkle some caster sugar on them, and cover, putting red-hot coals on the top, and cooking on a very slow fire. Boil in syrup for two minutes twenty-four preserved plums, stoned and cut in halves; cook in the same wTay as the pears five good cooking apples ; then drain, mix them all together, and fill the Brioche timbale with them. Cover the top with Brioche paste, make a hole in the middle of the cover, and bake in a slow oven. When done, fill in the hole in the cover with a piece of paste, and turn on a dish. Mix f pint of noyeau with 1 pint of the syrup tho fruit was cooked in. Blake a hole in the top or apex of the timbale, pour in the syrup through a funnel, and fill the hole with a preserved cherry. (2) Prepare a Brioche timbale as for No. 1 ; the apples and pears being done in the same way. Halve and stone some preserved greengages and apricots, fill the mould with the fruit and preserved cherries, cover the top with Brioche paste, and finish as before, pouring in 1 pint of syrup at 30deg., with f pint of Maraschino, through a hole in the top. Crohtons of Brioche.—Cut a score of slices from a Brioche, of an oblong shape, and fin. thick; sprinkle some caster sugar over them, and put them in the oven for a few minutes to glaze tho surface. Take them out, mask with a layer of apricot marmalade, and arrange them in a circle on a dish ; put in the centre some half-preserved chestnuts mixed with about 2 teacupfuls of Smyrna raisins, mask them with cura9oa syrup, and sprinkle over the top some finely- chopped pistachios. Serve with punch sauce and prepared curaqoa separately. Fried Brioche with Madeira Sauce. — Take some Brioche paste made as previously described, and when cold, cut it into slices about fin. thick, and then into short strips. Mix in a basin the yolks of four eggs and f pint of cream; put fib. of clarified fresh butter in a sauto-pan over tho fire, dip eight pieces of Brioche into the cream and eggs, and fry a light yellow in the hot butter. Border a dish with apricot mar- malade, put in the Brioches, and keep them hot in the oven. Melt fib. of marmalade in a stewpan, and add 1 pint of Madeira wine; when boiling, pour it over the Brioche, and serve hot. Small Brioches. — (1) Make a Brioche paste as described previously; wdien cool, roll it out, and cut it into scrips about