163 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Boiling—continued. boil at red heat, and then it yields its vapour very tardily. Plain water may be regarded as intermediary, or between the two, and as it is a convenient liquid to form a standard, chemists have adopted it in its purest form—that is, quite free from salts, sugar, or other soluble matters—and ascertained its boiling-point to be 212deg. Fahr., or lOOdeg. Cent.; that is to say, pure water may be heated up to 212deg. Fahr., which is the same as lOOdeg. Cent., without any particular change taking place in its character; but directly that boiling- point is reached, violent bubbling takes place, and the water is converted into steam as fast as circumstances will permit. In other words, pure water cannot be heated beyond 212deg. Falir., because at that point it becomes steam. In a like manner it cannot be reduced below 32deg. Falir., or Odeg. Cent., because at that point it becomes solid ice. See Freezing, Ice, Refrigera- ting, &c. It is a grievous pity that the Centigrade marking of thermometers has not been universally adopted in kitchens. It is exceedingly convenient and simple, being based upon the changing-point of water from freezing (Odeg. Cent.) to boiling (lOOdeg. Cent.). According to Fahrenheit’s scale, which has been used in this country ever since its invention, the freezing-point of water is 32deg., and the boiling-point 212deg., giving a wider range of nominal degrees; but as each Centigrade degree can be divided into tenths, we have a much liner gradua- tion than could possibly be required in cooking. Intelligent cooks (and what cooks are not intelligent P) will wonder, perhaps, how it is that water may be made to boil in a large vessel, such as a stockpot or boiler, without any very great amount of steam escaping. Of course, steam does come away, but nothing like what might be expected from the violence of the ebullition. The explanation is simply that although the water may boil at the bottom of the vessel (nearest the fire), the remainder of the water above tbat which is boiling is actually a degree or so below boiling-point, and, perhaps, several degrees lower at the top, especially if the boiler is uncovered and exposed to the cooling influence of the air. If all the water in the vessel could be heated to boiling-point at the same time, the whole would fly off in a volume of steam, which might be productive of very serious consequences to the cook and kitchen. The heat given off by the fire is of a very much higher degree than that of boiling water, and it is only the continuous falling of the cooler surface water to the bottom of the pot which prevents the whole lot being converted into steam at once. The hotter water is, the lighter it is in density; hence, as the heated water ascends in the pot, the colder and therefore denser and heavier water sinks down to the bottom to be heated—a provision of nature th'at cooks ought to thoroughly understand. Upon this circle of heated bottom-water rising and colder surface-water sinking, a few problems of cookery are established; for instance, by putting a cover on the boiler the air is kept from the surface of the water, and the degree of heat of the entire mass of water is therefore much higher than it would be if uncovered. This is useful to know, and accounts for the practice of sometimes putting fire on the lid of a pot as well as under (see Braising). The heat of the entire mass of water contained between these two fires is thus considerably increased over that contained in the simple covered pot, and therefore much more over that which is in the pot which is open. The practical application of this in cooking will be seen hereafter. When water is raised to the boiling-point at the bottom of the pan, the surface of the water is thrown into commotion. This is due to the water at the bottom of the pot nearest the heat being raised to boiling- Boiling—continued. point, converted into steam, and struggling to escape. But in a deep vessel, such as a stockpot, containing much water, it will be observed that this commotion does not exhaust itself by bursting in huge bubbles of steam on the surface; on' the contrary, the bubbling may be of the very smallest character, quite insig- nificant in comparison with the disturbance going on. This is explained by the fact that although the steam forms in large volumes at the bottom of the pan, it is recondensed again into water before it can reach the surface by the influence of the cooler mass of water through which it has to pass before escaping. If the mass of water above the thin boiling layer at the bottom is not sufficiently cool or extensive to re- condense the steam formed by the boiling as it forces its way upwards to escape, then vaporisation will go on freely, and the water be rapidly reduced and exhausted. This is a very important consideration in the process of “ reducing,” and shows plainly that the less depth of liquid you have above the bottom or heating surface, wherever that may be, the more easily and rapidly steam will escape (see Reducing), upon which the reduction of the liquid depends. From the foregoing explanations it will be evident that until pure water is converted into steam it does not actually reach the boiling degree of 212deg. Fahr. or lOOdeg. Cent., although for convenience’ sake it is said to be “ boiling,” and the commotion of ebullition goes on according to the heat of the fire beneath the pot. Steam is given off in minor quantities from the first application of heat, and, indeed, a steady vaporisation goes on from the surface of the water without the application of any heat at all beyond that of the temperature of the air; but when boiling sets in, the quantity of water converted into steam and escaping will be greatly increased, and quite sufficient to lessen the bulk of the water by degrees, although the quantity of steam escaping may not be easily detected. If sufficient heat could be applied all round the pot, so as to bring the whole mass of water to a boiling-point or very near it, the escape of steam would be excessive, as seen in the column ejected from the spout of a kettle in which the water is boiling freely; but even in this case the mass of the water is still below the boiling degree, although that which is being converted into steam is not. In other words, water cannot be con- verted into steam until it reaches the actual boiling- point; and, therefore, until it is converted into steam it is not chemically boiling; hence, although we con- tinue to use the term “ boiling,” it must not be over- looked that only that water which is converted into steam and effects its escape has attained the necessary degree of temperature called boiling. How does this affect cooking? Very slightly, pro- vided cooks will bear in mind that in their phraseology “ boiling ” does not signify that the water in the pot has reached 212deg. Fahr. (lOOdeg. Cent.), although it may be within a few degrees of it. Simmering is a modified form of the same sort of so-called “boiling,” but at a much lower degree, which it is of the first importance to understand, especially in its chemical relation to and effect upon foods. The boiling degree of water, or point of conversion into steam, is determined by chemists as 212deg. Fahr (lOOdeg. Cent.); but this only refers to pure water and liquids of an exactly similar density. Any fluid of a lighter density, such as spirits of wine, will boil at a much lower degree than water; and fluids of a greater density, such as thick gelatinous broths, or syrups, will require a great increase of temperature; but there are certain conditions in which the material mixed with the water does not alter its density, because of its insolu- bility. It may be suspended in the water; but merely floats about in it without raising its boiling degree. u 2