155 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jec., referred to, see under their special heads. Black Puddings—continued. the half-cooled fat and onions. Add to the mixture 1 break- fast-cupful of thick cream, season it with salt and spices, and stir it over a moderate fire till it assumes a creamy thickness ; then mix in the squares of fat. Thoroughly cleanse and soak the pig’s intestines, fix a tin funnel in the opening at one end, and fill with the mixture, being careful not to crack them. When the intestines are full, fasten them securely at the ends, and plunge them into a stewpan of hot water. When poached, drain the puddings on a cloth, rub them over with a piece of skin, cover them, and leave them till cool. When wanted for serving, the puddings must be well broiled over a clear fire. German Black Puddings.—Cut the rind off some fresh pork, blanch it, then scrape, wash well, and boil it. Drain the rind, chop finely, and mix with it a third of its quantity of chopped bacon. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, powdered thyme, and marjoram, and moisten it with a small quantity of liquid pig’s blood. Fill some prepared intestines with the mixture, tie them up at the ends, put them into a saucepan of hot water, and boil them over a slow fire for forty minutes. These puddings can be smoked. BLANC (Fr. for “white”).—The term is used in French cookery to denote meats that are served an blanc—that is, with white sauce; also for pieces of the breast of fowl, as blanc de volatile. Finely chop some beef-suet and some trimmings of bacon; put this into a saucepan with 4oz. of butter, two finely- minced lemons (having removed their pips), half a laurel- leaf, half a blade of mace, a few sprigs of thyme and basil, two or three cloves, 1 pinch of mignonette pepper, and a small quantity of salt. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, but do not brown it; then pour in sufficient water to cover it, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents stew gently for two hours. At the end of that time strain the Blanc through a fine hair sieve, and put it by for use. Blanc for Vegetables in General.—Cut -lib. of fat bacon and a small lump of beef-suet into moderate-sized pieces; put them into a stewpan with half a lemon cut into slices, 2oz. of butter, a small lump of salt, and as much water as will cover whatever vegetables are to be boiled in it. Stew the Blanc for half-an-hour, at tho end of which time it will be ready for the vegetables. BLANCHING. — In cookery tliis term, or its equivalent in other languages, especially French, has a very extended signification, originating doubtless in the first intention of soaking almonds or other kernels in Fig. 169. Blanching-pan. hot water to get their coats off. It is now used to imply the mere act of soaking anything for a short time in scalding water and refreshing in cold. Some meats are blanched to get the skin off—as ox-tongues, Blanching—continued. palates, cow-heels, and pig’s feet; other meats are blanched for the purpose of giving firmness to the flesh, and thus facilitating the process of larding; others, again, to preserve the whiteness—such as of rabbits and fowls. Some vegetables are blanched to preserve their colour, and others to remove any acridity or bitter taste of which they might be possessed. The mode usually prac- tised is to plunge the article, whatever it may be, into a Blanching-pan (Fig. 169) of boiling water, letting it remain there some two or three minutes, and then to remove from the hot water, and throw into cold, leaving it there to cool. In Blanching kernels, it is necessary to keep up the heat until the skins are removed. Confectioners use the term “ Blanching ” as applied to the immersion of certain fruits, such as apricots and peaches, into a sort of lye, in order to rid them of their woolly or downy coats. BLANC-MANGE.— A corruption of Blanc-manger [Fr. for, literally, “something white to eat”; Ger. Weiss Gallerte; Ital. Bianco-mangeare). In this country the word Blanc-mange is used almost indiscriminately, whereas Fig. 170. Blanc mange Decorated with Preserved Cherries, and Garnished with Crystallised Apples. amongst Continental cooks Blanc-manger is applied to a dish which is made from animal jelly (gelatine), sweetened, spiced, and mixed with an emulsion of sweet almonds, which renders it white. The term Blanc-mange, without the final r, seems to have foimd favour amongst British confectioners, and to have been almost universally adopted in this country; and for that reason it has been accepted in this Encyclopaedia as correct. As might be supposed, various receipts for Blanc- mange are to be found, amongst which milk, cream, rice, and cornflour are employed to give the necessary white appearance. The following may be relied upon for giving good results, and when turned out upon dishes and garnished with jams or stewed, preserved, or crystallized fruits, present not only very tasty dishes, but are ornaments to the table as well (see Fig. 170). (1) Simmer together 1 pint each of cream and milk, with a small stick of cinnamon previously bruised in a mortar, i teaspoonful of coriander-seeds also bruised, sugar to taste, and a bay-leaf; to these add ljoz. of isinglass, and when it is dissolved, strain the mixture. Set it by to cool, and if any film arises on the surface, skim it off. When nearly cold, pour it into a quart mould, and place in a convenient place to got cool and set. Turn out, and serve. (2) Blanch and pound in a mortar, with 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, )oz. of bitter almonds and 8oz. of sweet almonds. When reduced to a pulp, pour over 1 pint of warm milk, sweetened to taste with pounded loaf sugar; strain this through a tammy cloth, and squeezo it well into a basin. Dissolve eight or nine sheets of French gelatine in 1 pint of lukewarm water, and add to the almond mixture;