THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 166 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Saitces. Ac., referred to, see under their special headI Bologna—continued. and having flavoured it well with garlic and smoked it, are content to forego any further cooking. Sometimes, however, they are partly boiled before smoking. Bologna Sausage.— (1) Cut off all the fat and skin from some beef and pork, so as to have 31b. of the lean of each; put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for half-an-hour or so; take the meat out when done, and cut it up into small pieces. Chop very flue 21b. of the fat of bacon or liam separately, then mix them up with the beef and pork, and add a sprig of thyme finely chopped, a little ground mace, and salt and pepper to taste. Clean and soak the required number of skins from the intestines of an ox; fill them with the mix- ture, secure the ends, put the sausages into a bowl of good beef pickle, and let them remain for nine or ten days. Take them out, dry them with a cloth, wrap them round with muslin, and put them to smoke for twelve or fourteen days. Rub them well over with pepper or ground ginger, store them in a cool place, and they are ready for use. (2) Mince lib. each of lean veal, beef, and pork, the fat and lean of the same quantity of bacon, in equal proportions, and mix in 12oz. of finely-shred beef-suet, a dozen or so sage- leaves dried and powdered, a few sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Have ready a large skin (intestines) from an ox, thoroughly cleansed and soaked, put the mixture into it, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil gently for an hour. Take it out, drain and dry it on a bundle of straw, and it is ready for use when cold. It should have a few holes pricked in the skin before being boiled, to prevent the skin bursting. BOMB (Fr. Bombe; Ger. Bombe; Ital. Bomba; Sp. Bomba).—It is remarkable how much inclined some culi- nary practitioners are to introduce the arts of warfare into their peaceful and uneventful occupations. The Bomb-ice is just one of these remarkable productions, having no more than a very fanciful resemblance to the bomb-shell from which it is designed. The constituents of the ice may vary in manifold ways of colour, flavouring, and ingredients, their sole resemblance being in their spherical shape. Moulds have been specially manufactured for the casting of these ices, and can be obtained of any mould-maker, but as a dish the Bomb has become old-fashioned, and gives place to the more modern Neapolitan. To Francatelli much of the fame of Bomb-ices is due, and to his ingenuity must be ascribed some of their popularity, for he not only served them upon every available occasion, whether in times of war or peace, but of every conceivable variation Fig. 177. Bomb-moulds. (Adams’s designs.) (see Fig. 177), all exhibiting artistic taste and genius. For instance, they were of all sorts of colours and designs, or plain with various fine flavours, each one being large enough for one person, or so large that it would require slicing to serve. The flame which should issue from the aperture of a live bomb-shell was imitated with spun barley-sugar, and with excellent effect. Soyer, after his return from the Crimea, where he possibly saw some of the real articles in active existence, appears, from his writings, to have discarded Bomb-ices from that time. Francatelli, on the contrary, literally revelled in them, and possibly produced more varieties than any other confectioner, and these he named, as was the wont in Bomb—continued. those days, after every celebrity he could encounter. Thus, he had besides his stock Bomb-ices, Bomb-ice a la Kinnaird, a la Massey Stanley, a la Montrose, a la Rachel, a la Robert Peel, a la Rowland Errington, a la Wilton, and many others. It is to be hoped that such prolific complacency met its just reward in equiva- lent pecuniary compliments. Their further composition will be found described under Ices. BOMBAK.DE—The name of a favourite dish among the Tyrolese, composed of sheeps’ tongues and minced meats. BOMBAY PUDDING.—See Puddings. BONBONS.—A French term applied to sweetmeats generally, or any other kind of delicacy. It is merely the repetition of the word bon—good, and answers to our child’s term of “ goody-goodies.” Candied Liqueur Bonbons.— With a fluted, ring-shaped mould, make some impressions in a thick layer of dry starch powder that has been sifted through a silk sieve, a space of f2in. being left between each of these impressions. Boil lib. of sugar to the “ small blow,” then mix in 1 wineglassful of kirsclienwasser, maraschino, or other spirit liqueur ; let it cool, and work it with a spatula or wooden spoon till it forms a paste; then heat it in a sugar-boiler to melt it, without allowing the sugar to boil; then put it into a paper cornet, and, by squeezing the cornet, fill all the impressions in the starch. In ten minutes’ time, when the Bonbons will be dry, take them out of the starch, dust them lightly over with a soft brush, and put them in a candying-tin on a wire; fill up the tin with syrup at 34deg. that has been previouly cooled, allowing it to come a little above the rings ; cover the tin with a sheet of paper or linen, and put it in the hot closet for twelve or fourteen hours. At the end of that time break one corner of the crust of the sugar, let the syrup drain off for twelve hours, then remove the Bonbons on a sieve, dry them again in the hot closet for another twelve hours, when they will be ready to be packed away. If liked, a preserved cherry that has been well drained and dried may be put in the centre of each ring previous to putting it in the candying-tin; but if not thoroughly dried, the candy will not adhere to the cherry. These Bonbons are called after the name of the liqueur they contain, and, when cold, the liqueur will be found in the middle of the sugar. It is better, but not actually necessary, to candy the Bonbons after cooling. Other kinds of Bonbons will be found described under their English synonyms. BONBONNIERES.— Fr. for boxes used to keep sweets (bonbons) in; generally made of cliina, and of elegant design. BONDONS.—Neufchatel, in Normandy, is famous for its cheeses, and especially for those which bear this name, given to them from their resemblance in shape to a bung (bondon). They are manufactured from curdled milk, which is considerably salted, and put in little moulds to drain and dry. The genuine Bondon cheese is deservedly a great favourite; but in foreign markets so many imita- tions are to be met with of inferior quality, that Bondons have come to be regarded in this country as coarse and unpalatable, and quite distinct from the richer and some- what similar Neufchatel. See Cheese. BONES.—The composition of Bone is half earthy salts and half gelatine; the earthy salts can be extracted by soaking Bone in acid (vinegar will do it in time, but stronger acids, such as hydrochloric, would be more expeditious in their action), and when the process is complete nothing but gelatine will remain, still retaining the exact shape and apparent substantiality of the Bone, but soft as india-rubber. This will give some notion of the amount of gelatine that can be extracted from Bones. Bones for Soup.—Bones as well as meat can be used for soups, and should never be thrown away ; for Gib. or 71b. of Bones have the same food value as lib. of meat. Gelatine is