209 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Buckwheat—continued. pan that has been slightly greased. The quantity used at one time should not be more than will make a thin cake the size of a dinner-plate. Put them on the fire and fry first one side and then the other, and when done butter them hoth sides and serve hot. Sometimes sugar or treacle is used instead of the butter. (6) Put 1 table-spoonful of syrup or treacle (treacle for pre- ference) and 1 teaspoonful of salt into lqt. of warm water, add sufficient Buckwheat flour to make a thick batter, and 1 table-spoonful of German yeast. Put it before the fire to rise. Put some muffin-rings on a baking-sheet, put in the batter, and place them in a slow oven. These cakes require toasting and well buttering before sending to table. (7) .Dilute 1 drachm of compressed yeast with 1 gill of lukewarm water, and let it rest for ten minutes ; then add it to ^lb. of Buckwheat flour in a basin, pouring in 1 pint of cold water, and season with a light pinch of salt ; mix thoroughly with the spatula, cover the basin with a cloth, and let it rest for four hours. Have a griddle large enough to hold six cakes, grease lightly with a piece of fat pork rind, and place it on a hot stove. Pour half of the batter into the six sections of the griddle, distributing it evenly, and bake two-and-a-half minutes; then turn over, and bake two- and-a-half minutes longer. Heap them on a hot dish. Make {he other six exactly the same way. Send to the table with honey or maple-sugar separately. (8) The night before making these cakes, prepare a sponge by mixing together 1 breakfast-cupful of yeast, 21b. of Buckwheat flour, and 2qts. of water. In the morning, mix | teacupful of syrup, | teacupful of melted lard, and 1 tea- spoonful of salt, with the sponge, and beat till well mixed and elastic; then roll the dough thinly, divide it into cakes, and bake them on the griddle. Serve either hot or cold. Buck-wheat Pancakes.—Bee Backings. Buckwheat Soup in German Style.—Mix lOoz. of Buck- wheat flour in a stewpan with Jgall. of foiling broth, drop- ping the flour through a dredger to make it fall lightly; boil gently on the side of the fire for thirty minutes, and then strain it through a sieve. Beturn it to the pan, and add a little grated nutmeg, and a very small quantity of sugar; place it on the fire, stirring it until it boils; then stir in quickly, to thicken, three or four yolks of eggs well beaten up in a little cream, and serve. BUFFALO.—This animal is not eaten as beef, but the flesh is used for making an extract, and this forms an important industry in the Dutch East Indian posses- sions, whence the extract is sent into Holland. BUFFET.—This term is of French introduction, and is generally accepted now to denote a sort of sideboard or counter spread with viands, wines, and other refresh- ments. Tiie origin of the term is uncertain; by some etymologists it is considered to be a corruption of buvette, a sort of leather bag or wine skin. Whatever it may have taken its origin from, it is used in this country with very extended signification, being sometimes used to indicate not only the laden sideboard or counter, but the room in which it is laid. The old “Beefeaters” of the Tower of London are said to be so called from a corrup- tion of the word “ buffeters,” or attendants at the buffet. BUFF PUDDING.—See Puddings. BUGNE.—A kind of pancake fried in oil, specially esteemed and commonly made in Lyons. The term gives origin to our “ bun.” BUISSON.—French for a dish piled as a pyramid —literally a bush of feathers. Un buisson d’ecrevisses— a pile of crayfish. BULLACES.—Supposed to be a corruption of the word “bull-sloes”—a sort of wild plum of the Prunus tribe, greenish yellow, and the size of cherries (see Fig. 223). Sometimes they are made into pies or puddings by the working classes; they are best prepared in the following manner. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Bullaces—continued. Bullace Cheese.—Pick the fruit when it has been slightly touched by frost, and for every pound take 4oz. of preserving- sugar. Put the Bullaces dry into a jar, and place this in a saucepan with boiling water up to its neck, tying over the mouth to exclude the air. When the Bullaces are tender, pour them all into a basin and take out the stones; then pour the fruit into a stewpan, add the sugar, and boil until it is reduced to a thick pulp. The time for boiling cannot be given, as it varies; but the easiest way to tell is by putting a teaspoonful in a saucer and placing it out of doors, when if it sets to a jelly it is done; if not, continue boiling until it will do so. Fig. 223. Bullaces. Bullace Pie.—Pick the stalks off the fruit, put it in a pie- dish with 2 large table-spoonfuls of brown sugar (or more, according to the quantity of fruit), and pour in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of water. Line the edges of the pie-dish with strips of any kind of paste preferred, and cover with a flat of the same paste; moisten and press the edges together, make a slight incision in the top of the pie, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, sprinkle caster sugar over the crust, and serve either hot or cold. BULLOCK.—An old Saxon term for Ox, but more often used in the shambles than the kitchen. See Beef and Ox. BUNS (Scotch, Bunn(s); Fr. Bugne(s), from beignet; Sp. Bunuelo(s); Ger. Bungo(s).—Small sweet cakes that are not cakes, having quite an individuality of their own, as may be seen by the numerous receipts that are given for their preparation. Bath Buns are described under their own heading. Buns.—(1) Mix Jib. of butter and Jib. of sugar with 31b. of sifted flour, and rub well together; then add lib. of currants, washed and dried, some caraway-seeds, and foz. of yeast. When the paste has been set to rise for about half-an- liour, mix the ingredients up, and let the dough stand again until well risen. Boll out, and shape in small cakes, place these on greased baking-sheets, and bake in a hot oven. (2) Mix gib. of butter with lib. of Hour until quite fine; add four eggs, 1 pint of milk beaten to a light froth, 1 table- spoonful each of rose-water, brandy, and wine, 2 table-spoon- fuls of yeast, and Jib. of sugar, beating together with a knife; sift in lib- of flour, mix all till quite smooth, and set to rise. Pill four square pans, and bake. (3) Put in a basin 4oz. of butter, 4oz. of sugar, 1 pint of potato-yeast, one egg, and enough flour to make a soft dough ; roll out, shape it, and bake on greased baking-sheets. (4) Dissolve loz. of German yeast in 1 pint of warm water, mix with it lib. of flour, and stand it in a warm place to form a sponge. In half-an-hour knead in another pound of flour, and set it to rise again. When very light melt lib. of butter and work in, but do not let the butter be oiled or hot. Add -g-lb. of scalded currants, washed and dried, Jib. of sugar, a little ground cinnamon and grated nutmeg, and 1 large teaspoonful of baking powder. Flour a baking-sheet, cut the dough and shape it into balls, and put on the tin, leaving a little space between each. Beat the yolk of one egg in g teacupful of milk and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and glaze the Buns by brushing with a paste-brush dipped in it. Bake in a hot oven until well browned. (5) Mix overnight 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 table- spoonful of sugar, 1 pinch of salt, £ teacupful of yeast, and one egg beaten up in 1 breakfast-cupful of scalded milk. In the morning make a stiff dough by adding more flour, knead for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then let it rise. When light. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their suecial heads. 7,