TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 13 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Almonds—continued. Almond Puddings.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, and when the liquor boils, pour it over 6oz. of breadcrumbs in a basin ; then add a dozen blanched and pounded Jordan Almonds, two well-beaten eggs, and suffi- cient sugar to sweeten. Pour the mixture into buttered cups or small moulds, and bake them for half-an-hour in a quick oven. Turn them out when done, and serve at once. Almonds and Raisins for Dessert.—The finest quality of Valencia Raisins, in good bunches, with a purple bloom on the fruit, should be procured for this purpose. Pile up the bunches on the dish in a pyramidal heap, upon a lace-pattern dessert- paper, and strew well-blanched Almonds over and between the bunches. See Raisins. Almond and Raspberry Ice.—1st Mixture : Blanch, peel, and pound jib. of Jordan Almonds and joz. of Bitter Almonds. Boil 3 pints of cream, or half milk and half cream, pour into a stewpan, and let it cool; then stir in jib. of finely-powdered or caster sugar, and when that is quite dissolved beat up and stir in sharply the yolks of twelve eggs; stir over the fire, without allowing to boil, until the mixture thickens ; add quickly the pounded Almonds, and 1 table-spoonful of kirschen- wasser; strain the whole through a tammy cloth into a basin. 2nd Mixture : Mix lqt. of raspberry-juice and lqt. of syrup at 18deg. by the saccharometer (see Sybups), or take 2qts. of raspberry syrup made without vinegar, and strain through a sieve, if necessary. Freeze these two mixtures in separate pots (see Ices), and serve in layers. Almond and Rice Pudding.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk and 3oz. of ground rice into a saucepan, and boil them. Pour the mixture into a basin, and when it is quite cold mix in 6oz. each of sugar and warmed butter, six yolks and nine whites of eggs, and five or six blanched and shred Sweet Almonds. Put the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake it until done. Turn it out on to a dish, cover it with pieces of Almonds stuck into it, and serve. Almond Rock Biscuits.—As these keep well in a tin, and there is always a lively demand for them, it is just as well to make plenty at one baking. Blanch and mince coarsely 21b. of Sweet Almonds, and dry them slightly in a screen or very slow oven, or before a warm fire. Mix up the Almonds with the yolks of eight eggs and white of one, and two piled table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Blend all together to form a paste, and then prepare a baking-sheet with egg wafer (see Almond Biscuits, No. 2), drop a dessert-spoonful of the paste at regular intervals upon it, and bake in a sharp oven. When done, dry them before the fire, or in a screen. Almond-sandwich Biscuits with Raspberry Jam.— Blanch and pound to a pulp lib. of Sweet Almonds, adding the white of one egg to prevent them from oiling. Then mix up the Almond pulp and lib. of caster sugar into a paste with the whites of one or two more eggs. Divide the mass into two equal parts, and into one part work 2 table-spoonfuls of flour to make it into a stiff paste. Roll this out thin, and trim off the edges of the sheet of pastry to make it square. Mask it over with raspberry jam, and cover with a rolled-out sheet of the second part of the Almond paste. Cut into squares or diamonds with a sharp knife, and lay each one carefully on a baking-sheet prepared with white of egg (see Almond Biscuits, No. 2). Put into a slow oven, and bake lightly. To use up the trimmings of the cuttings, it will be well to chop them into dice, and pile them into little groups on a second baking-sheet prepared as above, and put a little sugar- icing over them (white and pink if desired), a slip of citron- peel, and a dash here and there of jam. Bake in a slow oven as before, and trim the “ wafer ” with a pair of sharp scissors. Almond Savarin Pudding.—Put loz. of yeast (German) into a basin, and let it dissolve in a little less than a breakfast- cupful of warm milk ; pass the liquor through a fine sieve into another basin, and add sufficient flour to make it into a stiff dough. A pound of flour will be required for the pudding, and the quantity that is not used with the milk must be put into a basin underneath the dough mixture, which has been ' rolled into a ball. Set the sponge or dough in a warm place, and when it is sufficiently risen, work in jib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, jib. of slightly warmed butter, eight eggs, and a small quantity of salt. Cover the bottom of a well-buttered plain border mould with small pieces of Almonds, turning it Almonds—continued. over so that those pieces that do not adhere will fall out, and pour in the mixture, when it is quite smooth, to about three-fourths fill it. Put a cover over the mould, set it in a warm place, and when it has sufficiently risen, put it in a moderate oven and bake for an hour-and-a-half. Take it out, and before turning it out of the mould, make several incisions with a knife all over the bottom, and pour in a mixture of one- third weak syrup and two-thirds rum. When it has well soaked in, say to about lin. in depth, turn the pudding out on to a dish and serve, either hot or cold, as desired. Almond Savoy Cake.—Blanch and pound in a mortar fib. of Sweet Almonds and jib. of Bitter, or purchase the Almonds ready ground; pass them through a sieve into a basin, add 21b. of caster sugar, and mix well together. Then add j pint of eggs, and well mix again ; after that add 1 pint of the yolks of eggs very slowly, stirring until the mixture is quite light; mix in the well-whisked whites of twelve eggs; and lastly, lib. of finely-sifted flour, which sprinkle in a little at a time, working freely. Butter some savoy moulds, put in the mixture to about three-quarters fill them, and bake in a moderate oven. See Savoy Cakes. Almond Soup.— (1) Blanch and pound 1 jib. of Sweet Almonds and a dozen Bitter ones, adding a little water to prevent them from oiling, and work them until they are quite smooth. Pour 3qts. of water into a saucepan, set it on the fire, and when the water boils, add joz. of coriander and the pulp of half a lemon, and let them infuse. Add a little at a time of this to the pounded Almonds, and rub them several times through a cloth or sieve, until the mixture has the appearance of milk ; sweeten to taste, and sprinkle in a little salt. Set the pan in the bain-marie or in a larger saucepan of boiling water until wanted, and a few minutes before serving add thin slices or pieces of toast. (2) Blanch and pound 8oz. of Sweet Almonds and five or six Bitter ones, using a little water to prevent them from oiling. Pour 3qts. of milk into a saucepan on the fire, boil it, and rub a part of it with the Almonds through a cloth or very fine sieve. Repeat this operation until the mixture has the appearance of milk, and in the other part of the milk infuse half a stick of vanilla, which must be removed before the two lots of milk are again mixed. Pour the milk con- taining the Almonds into a saucepan, sweeten to taste, and add a little salt; then pour in the vanilla-flavoured milk, set the saucepan in the bain-marie, and add loz. of butter. Turn the Soup into the tureen over pieces of toasted bread, and serve. (3) Pour 3qts. of milk into a saucepan and let it boil. Put the yolks of eight eggs into a saucepan, and add two dozen Almond macaroons, half sweet and half bitter, crushed with a rolling-pin; then pour in 3 pints of the milk, which must be hot but not boiling, sweeten to taste, and add 1 tablespoonful of orange-flower water and a slight seasoning- of salt, stirring well, so that the whole of the in- gredients shall be well mixed. Cut off some thin slices of bread from a household loaf, sprinkle them well with sugar, glaze them in the oven, and put them in the soup tureen; stir the plain milk with a wooden spoon, and pour it over. Put the saucepan containing the Almond-flavoured milk on to the fire to thicken, stirring well without boiling, add it to the tureen, and serve. Pralines may be used instead of macaroons if desired. (4) Put a fowl, 101b. of veal, and some bones from the veal, into a saucepan with 5qts. of water, and boil over a good fire until the liquor is reduced to 3qts., and forms jelly. Care must be taken at first to prevent the veal burning at the bottom of the pan. Add a thin slice of uncooked ham, a tablespoonful of chopped onion, half a blade of mace, half a nutmeg, six cloves, and a sprig of green thyme. Set the pan on the fire and boil until the various flavourings are thoroughly incorporated with the Soup; strain it into a jar or bowl, skim it well, and pour off the clear into another saucepan, and set it on the side of the fire to keep hot. Blanch lib. of Almonds, and pound 12oz. of them, cutting into shreds the remainder. Put the pounded Almonds into the Soup, add a little salt to taste, remove the saucepan from the fire, stir in the shred Almonds and 1 pint of boiling thick sweet cream, pour the Soup into the tureen, and serve at once. The cream must not be allowed to boil with the Soup, otherwise it would curdle,