THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 131 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. BEETROOTS (Fr. Betteraves; Ger. Beeten; Ital. Barbabietolas; Span. Betarragas).—A very useful class of vegetables of tbe Beta genus, of which, out of a great number of varieties, the red and the white Beets, only are concerned in culinary operations. The white is cultivated principally in Prance and Germany for pro- ducing Beet sugar (it contains 8 per cent.); but the red (also rich in sugar) is the sirbject of considerable solicitude on the part of British market gardeners, because of its extensive use in this country for cooking. The yellow Beet is grown in fields for cattle food only. In some parts of the Continent the leaves of the Beet are cooked and served like spinach, and the footstalks and midribs of the leaves are stewed and eaten under the name of Swiss cliard or poiree aux carottes; but the Fig. 145. Red Beet. root of the red (Pig- 145) is of the greatest value to us, and when cooked should be tender, well-flavoured, of a rich crimson colour throughout, and therefore of supreme service for these reasons in salads, pickles, and ornamental cookery. It is sometimes made into jams and other confections. To Prepare Beetroots for tlie Table.—Select, if possible, the small, smooth varieties; wash clean without cutting or scraping, and boil for from one to four hours, according to age and size. Let them cool, then peel and cut them into thin slices, and serve in a glass dish alone, or mixed up in a salad. Baked. Beetroots.—Wash thoroughly, and put into a slowish oven, either whole or cut into thick slices. When done serve hot, with butter, pepper, and salt. Whole they will take from six to eight hours to cook thoroughly To those who are fond of Beets as a vegetable accompaniment to hot meats, baking especially recommends itself, for in that way none of the flavour is lost, as happens in the case of boiling. When cold a small Beetroot may be cut up into slices, and then across and across into dice, and warmed up as follows : Mince half an onion very fine, put it into a saute-pan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, and heat over the stove until the onion takes colour; then add the Beetroot, pepper and salt to taste, and 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Toss well until hot through, and serve. Beetroot a la Poitevine.—Put a little brown thickening into a saucepan with a small quantity of chopped onion and ground mixed spice; warm it, and add a cold boiled Beet- root cut up in slices. When the Beetroot is warmed through, add a teaspoonful or so of vinegar, stir gently, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Beetroot Beer.—Wash and peel by scraping as many Beet- roots as may be required, the number depending upon the quantity of beer to be made. Cut them into thick slices, and again into pieces lin. or so thick ; almost fill the copper or boiler with these pieces, and pour over sufficient cold water to cover them; boil for five or six hours, and then strain, without pressing, through a coarse sieve Return the liquor or “ wort ” to the boiler, add lib. of hops to every 4galls. of liquor, and after boiling for two hours strain again into a well-cleaned cask ready for working. See Beer. Beetroot in Butter Sauce.— Put a Beetroot into a saucepan of water and boil for about one hour; then put it into a basin of cold water and rub off the skin. Cut it up into slices, put these into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, i breakfast-cupful of vinegar, 1 teacupful of butter, and a little salt. Warm up this mixture over the fire, and when it boils add a thickening of flour. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Beetroots— continued. Beetroot with. Cream.—There are several modes of pre- paring and serving this exquisite dish, and it may fairly be said that the greatest gourmet in the world does not know the perfection of Beetroot flavour until he has tasted one or the other of them. Boil some Beetroot as described in the receipt given for it; peel it, and let it get cold; then slice it, and put it into a stowpan with 5 pint of good stock, and stew till thoroughly hot; then strain off the stock (or plain water may be used instead of stock). Beat up the yolk of one egg with lqt. of cream, and stir it into the stock, or water, in which the Beetroot has been warmed up. Place the Beetroot on a dish, and pour the sauce over. Cold Beetroot with cream and mayonnaise sauce poured over is much esteemed. Beetroot Fritters. —(1) Slice a cold boiled yellow Beetroot and two or throe onions. Put a slice of onion on one of the slices of Beetroot, sprinkle over a seasoning of grated nutmeg, chopped chervil and pimpernel leaves; add salt and pepper to taste. Cover this over with another slice of Beetroot, and continue in this way until all the latter is used up. Dip the fritters into batter, put them into a frying-pan of boiling lard or other fat, and fry them to a light brown colour When done, take them out, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, dust them over with salt, and serve. (2) Boil a large Beetroot until it is tender, and beat it to a pulp in a mortar. Add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and 3 table-spoonfuls of cream. Sweeten to taste, grate in some nutmeg and the peel of half a lemon, add 1 wineglassful of brandy, and mix all well together. Form it into fritters, and fry these in butter. Garnish them with any green sweetmeats, preserved apricots, or green sprigs of myrtle, and serve. Beetroot Pie.—Pies made in this way are richer and more substantial than most pies, and resemble rhubarb pie some- what in appearance and flavour. Cut up sufficient red Beetroot to fill the dish to be used, season with vinegar, sugar, and spices to taste, put it into a dish lined with paste, cover over with more paste, and bake in a moderate oven, allowing the same time as for an apple pie. The Beetroot may be used without boiling if it is finely chopped, but the best way is to have it boiled before using. Beetroot Salad.—(1) Slices of cold Beetroot arranged on a dish with an ordinary salad-dressing poured over them ; or (2) the slices of Beetroot may be alternated with slices of hard-boiled eggs. Over this pour a dressing consisting of oil and vinegar (most oil), seasoned with pepper and salt. Garnish with a few pickled mushrooms, small onions, and horseradish. (3) To servo Beetroot artistically, see that the slices are cut all of one size and rounded by a vegetable-cutter, and then lay them on a dish in a wreath overlapping one another (see Fig. 146). Pour over the slices a dressing made with cream, and fill the centre with chopped hard-boiled eggs, or a pile of halves with a sprinkle of chopped parsley about them, and little garnishes of horseradish between the slices. Plain cream, acidulated with vinegar and seasoned with salt and pepper, or mayonnaise sauce, makes a very good dressing for this dish. s 2