THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 181 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Bread—continued. Boston Brown Bread. — (1) Take 3 pints of cornflour, 3 pints of rye-meal, a few largo spoonfuls of pumpkin, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, i teacupful of yeast, and ^ teacupful of molasses, and stir in some warm water until it forms a stiff paste. Have two iron pans (see Fig. 193, a) well buttered, pour in tlio mixture, and smooth on the top with the hand, first wetted in cold water. "When it has risen, bake in a hot oven. (2) Pour 1 pint of boiling water over lib. of cornflour in a pan, and mix; throw in 1 teaspoonful of salt, and add 5 breakfast-cupful of black molasses and 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water ; then 1 breakfast-cupful of fresh yeast, Jib. of rye-meal, and lib. of wheat-flour. Line two sheet-iron Brown- Fig. 194. Brown-Bread Pail. Bread pails (see Fig. 194) with greased paper, put in the dough, and let it rise from one to two hours; then bake for five hours. Bread made with Potatoes. — Mash lib. of boiled potatoes while hot, and add 2 pints of tepid water, loz. of German yeast, and 2 handfuls of flour. Leave this to ferment in a warm place for six or seven hours, then put it into a pan with lgall. of flour and 1 loz. of salt, and mix the whole into a dough. Let it stand another three hours to rise, make it into loaves, and bake as quickly as possible. Butter-milk Bread.—Put 21b. of the finest flour in a small crock, and add 1 pinch of bicarbonate of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and a pinch or two of salt; stir together, and make into a stiff dough with butter-milk. Knead it well, shape into loaves, and bake. Corn Bread.—(1) Scald 1 breakfast-cupful of white corn-meal, and mix with it an egg, 2 table-spoonfuls of melted lard, 1 teacupful of milk or cold water, 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, and a pinch of salt, beating well together. Pour this batter into a hot tin, not greased (it should be over lin. deep in the tin), and bake about half-an-hour, quickly. If preferred, butter-milk and bicarbonate of soda can be used instead of cold milk and baking-powder. (2) Beat up the yolks of four eggs in 1 pint of butter-milk, stir in quickly a small handful of corn-meal, add 1 table- spoonful of warmed butter, and stir in alternately the well- beaten whites of the eggs and meal enough to make a stiff batter, adding a little bicarbonate of soda. Pour the mix- ture into buttered tins, and bake in a quick oven. (3) Mix 4 pints of corn-meal with 3 pints of warm water, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, stir with the hand, make into loaves, and bake in a quick oven. (4) Mix lqt. of corn-meal with cold milk, beat two eggs and 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter into it, make it into a cake, and bake slowly with coals underneath and on top of the pan, or cook it on a griddle over a fire. This is best eaten hot with butter. (5) Sift together 1 breakfast-cupful of cornflour, 1 teacupful of flour, £ teaspoonful of salt, and 3 teaspoonfuis of baking- powder ; mix with these ingredients 1 teacupful each of butter and flour beaten to a cream, four eggs beaten for two minutes, and 1 pint of milk. Put the Bread into a well-buttered iron pan, bake it for about twenty minutes or until nicely browned, and serve hot. Bread—cont inued. (6) Put into a basin 2 breakfast-cupfuls of yellow corn-meal, 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and 1 saltspoonful of salt; mix these, and then add 2oz. of butter (which has been creamed by warming and beating), two eggs beaten with i teacupful of moist sugar, and 1 pint of milk; beat all into a smooth paste. Butter some cake-tins, 4in. deep, and pour the mixture in. This loaf is best eaten with honey, in which case the sugar may be omitted. Corn Bread of St. Charles.—Pour J pint of boiling water into 2lb. of white corn-meal, add 2oz. of wanned butter, 1 break- fast-cupful of milk, 1 pinch of salt, two eggs (beaten), and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. Beat thoroughly, pour into a hot greased cake-tin, and bake for half-an-hour. Serve hot. Cornflour Sponge Bread.—Beat together in a large basin three eggs and 1 pint of butter-millc ; then add 1 pint of cornflour and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, beating all the time. Bake as a loaf in a quick oven. Diabetic Bread.—Boil 3qts. of wheat bran for ten minutes, and strain it through a sieve ; boil it again in fresh water for another ten minutes, then turn it on to the sieve, and pour cold water over it until the water runs off quite clear. Squeeze the bran in a cloth to extract all the water possible ; then spread it out on a plate and put it in a slow oven. When perfectly dry and crisp, the bran will be fit for grind- ing. The bran must be ground to a powder through a very fine mill, then sifted through a fine hair sieve; what does not pass through the sieve should be ground and sifted again. For 3oz., troy, of the bran powder, allow three eggs, 1 i oz. of butter, and 1 breakfast-cupful of very fresh milk. Beat the three eggs with half of the milk; put the remainder of the milk in a small saucepan with the butter, and stir it over the fire until it has dissolved, then mix both lots of milks together, and stir in the bran; season to taste with ground ginger, nutmeg, or any spice liked. Butter a basin, stir into the bran mixture, first 35 grains of sesquicarbonate of soda, and then 3 drachms of dilute hydrochloric acid. Pour the mixture immediately into the basin, and put it in the oven. The Bread will require a little over an hour’s baking. Dietetic Bread. — Put the yolks of twelve and the whites of six eggs into a bowl, and whisk them so as to break them. Pour 1 teacupful of water into a saucepan with lib. of sugar, and let it just come to the boil; then remove the pan from the fire, add the eggs, and whisk until cold. Sprinkle and stir in lightly lib. of flour, turn the preparation into papered square tins, dust their surfaces over with broken loaf sugar, and bake in a slack oven until they are firm on the top and quite dry. Take them out, and serve as desired. Dyspepsia Bread.—Mix 3qts. of unsifted wheat-meal with lqt. of soft warm water, add j pint of molasses, j pint of fresh yeast, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered carbonate of ammonia. Shape into two loaves, and bake for an hour. Egg Bread.—Take 1 breakfast-cupful each of rice and hominy and mash them well; then add the yolks of four eggs well beaten, and mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, pint of sweet milk, and 1 table-spoonful of butter. Whisk the whites of the eggs well, and just before making the mass into loaves add them. Bake in a quick oven until done. Egg-and-Cornflour Bread.—Kub up jib. of butter with lqt. of cornflour, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, and the yolks of four eggs, and stir in gradually lqt. of cold milk; beat the mixture until it forms a smooth batter. Butter the pan in which the Bread is be baked (see Fig. 193, A). Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, stir them into the batter lightly and quickly, put it into the buttered pan, and bake the Bread in a moderate oven for half-an-hour, or until a clean skewer run into the centre of the loaf can be withdrawn clean. The Bread may be used either hot or cold. The same batter can be baked in smaller pans or in earthen cups. Gluten Bread.—Mix together the following materials : 1 jib. of fresh moist gluten, 3j drachms of bicarbonate of ammonia, lj drachms of common salt, 48 grains of powdered caraway, 4joz. of wheaten-flour, ljoz. of powdered bran, and 4oz. of salt butter. When well incorporated, put the mixture into small and flat tin pans. Bako the Bread on a moderately heated hearth.