TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 41 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Apricots—continued. moistening with water. Lay icing-sugar along the bars in an ornamental manner, and then bake in a moderately hot oven. When done, cut into oblong pieces 2in. by 3in., and pile one upon the other on a dish with a cut paper spread on it. Ude recommends that this dish should be decorated with almonds cut into different shapes and coloured. Apricot Charlotte Russe.—Line a plain round mould with finger-biscuits, and pack it in ice. Eub 1 pint of Apricot Marmalade through a sieve, put it into a basin, and stir in loz. of gelatine, dissolved in 1 gill of water, and strained. Put the basin on the ice, and work the mixture with a spoon until it begins to freeze; then add lqt. of well-whipped cream, mix, and fill the mould with it. Cover the mould with a baking- sheet, with ice on the top ; let it remain in this way for an hour; then turn the charlotte out of the mould on to a suitable dish, and serve. Apricot Chartreuse.—Put 6oz. of sugar into a saucepan with a tin of preserved Apricots, and add a wineglassful of white wine and a breakfast-cupful of water. Sot the pan on the fire, boil the liquor up once, pour the whole on to a sieve over a basin, cut the Apricots in halves, remove the stones, take out the kernels, and carefully skin the Apricots. Pour 1 pint of the syrup into a saucepan, add fifteen sheets of French gelatine, previously soaked in water, and set the pan on the fire; boil the liquor, then add the whites and broken shells of three eggs, and strain the whole through a jelly-hag into a basin. Pour a little warmed sweet jelly on the bottom of a mould packed in ice, put a layer of the halves of Apricots, with a few of the kernels blanched and cut in halves also, and let the jelly set; then cover them with more jelly, and let that set also. Put a smaller mould, about ljin. less in diameter than the other, into the larger one, taking care to have it exactly in the centre, and fill the cavity between them with more of the jelly ; when it is nearly set, add the remainder of the Apricots and kernels, so as to have them well distributed round the side. Pour a little warm water ints the smaller mould, to remove it, when the jelly is quite firm; fill the space with Apricot Syrup mixed with well-whipped cream and a little dissolved gelatine, cover over the mould, pack ice on the top, and let it remain until the whole is set. Turn it out on to a dish when ready, and serve. Apricot Clieese.—(1) Take any form of Apricot, parboil, and reduce to a pulp by beating in a mortar or with a fork. Pass through a sieve, rejecting the skin; add |lb. of powdered sugar to every pound of strained fruit, or puree, as it is called, and the kernels of half the stones, nicely blanched. Boil until it has thickened, and then pour into buttered moulds. Set in a very slow oven or drying-closet, and when quite firm, turn out and serve with whipped cream. (2) Take, according to their size, eight or twelve ripe Apricots; peel and stone them, and pound to a pulp in a mortar, with a little caster sugar. When well pounded, rub them through a sieve with a wooden spoon. Mix a little softened isinglass with this puree. Well beat 1 pint of thick cream, and mix it with the Apricots. Taste whether the cream is sweetened enough. Continue to whip it over ice till you perceive that the isinglass is well melted and blended with the mixture, then put the cheese into a mould, and surround well with ice pounded with salt. If the stirring is neglected when over the ice, the Apricot will fall to the bottom of the mould, so that when the ice-cream is turned upside down into the dish, it will appear of two colours, and the yellow part will be tough. A pot of Apricot Marmalade or tinned Apricots may be used instead by rubbing into a puree through a hair sieve. Proceed as before, and then take 1 pint of thick cream, or more, according to the size of the mould, whip it well, mix it gently over ice with the fruit, and when they are well mixed put them into the mould, and pack in ice. Apricots a la Colbert.—Put a little rice into a saucepan with milk, and boil it. Cut a dozen or so Apricots in halves, form a little of the rice into the same shape, and fasten both together so as to have a shape like an Apricot, only half Apricot and half rice. Dip them into egg, roll in breadcrumbs, plunge into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them. Take them out, drain, roll in sugar, put on a dish, and serve with a little sweet sauce made with Apricot Apricots—continued. Syrup. The rice should be boiled and prepared as for rice croquettes. Apricots a la Cond£.—Divide and remove the kernels from a dozen ripe Apricots, and stew them in a light syrup until done, with the rind of one lemon pared very thin. Next pre- pare a border of rice suitable to the dish you are going to use ; fill in the centre with the Apricot, and just before serving pour some whipped cream over the top, and sprinkle with pistachio nuts chopped very fine. Apricot Cream.—(1) Divide and remove the kernels from twelve ripe Apricots, and put them into a stewpan with gib. of caster sugar and a little water; stew them gently until soft, and then add ioz. of gelatine. Eub the Apricots through a tammy sieve, and mix with them 1 pint of whipped cream, adding more sugar if required, as some Apricots are not so sweet as others, and pour the mass into a fancy mould; or use for any purpose required. If a mould is used, the top should be ornamented with a little crystallised fruit or coloured jelly. When ready to be served, dip the mould into warm water to loosen the cream, but do not let the water overflow the top. Turn out on a glass dish, and serve. (2) Take some ripe Apricots, split them, and remove the stones ; put them in a preserving pan with |lb. of sugar and 1 gill of water, stir them over the fire until the Apricots are quite soft, then rub through a hair sieve into a pan. Mix with the puree 1 pint of whipped cream and loz. of dissolved isinglass, pour the cream into a fancy mould, and put it upon the ice or in a cool place to set. When set and ready for use, dip the mould into clean warm water, to loosen the cream, so that the water does not cover it, and turn out in the usual way. This sort of cream may be prepared with plums instead of Apricots. Apricot Flawn.—(1) Butter a flawn-circle, which place on a baking-sheet. Line it with puff paste (trimmings will do), and trim off level to the rim. Mask the bottom with a thin layer of powdered sugar, and upon this sugar arrange halves of peeled or tinned Apricots in sufficient quantity to fill the flawn. Ornament the rim of the paste with a strip that has been stamped. Sprinkle over with sugar, and bake in a slack oven for thirty-five minutes. (2) Line a well-buttered flawn-mould with about 12oz. of short-crust paste, fill it up with flour, and bake for about fifteen minutes. Take it out, remQve all the flour, and return it to the oven for five minutes longer, to dry, and colour slightly. Put lOoz. of crushed loaf sugar into a saucepan with the thin rind of a lemon, pour in 3 teacupfuls of water, and boil the whole to a thin syrup. Cut a dozen Apricots in halves, take out the stones, put them into the syrup, and cook gently until they are quite tender. Turn the shell of paste carefully out of the mould, put the Apricots in, as well as the syrup, and serve. Apricot Fritters.—(1) Make lib. of brioche paste, using only jib. of butter, and set it for three hours to rise; then lay the paste on the slab, fold it over, and roll out thick ; fold over again, and put it in a basin on ice or other very cool place. When it is quite firm, roll it out to gin. thickness, and stamp out rounds with a cutter 2in. in diameter; moisten the top of the edge of the rounds with a little brush dipped in water, and put g teaspoonful of Apricot Jam in the centre of each; cover this with a second round of paste, and press the two together, taking care to make the edges stick fast. Prick with a skewer-point round the top about gin. from the edge, and fry the fritters in warm fat; drain, and sprinkle some fine sugar over them. Pile them on a napkin on a dish, and serve ornamented with sugar piping. Halves of crystallised cherries and angelica cut in shapes may be substituted for the sugar dust, if an elaborate dish is desired. (2) Cut some ripe Apricots into halves, remove the stones, and cut each half into two or three pieces; peel them, and range them in a kitchen basin. Sprinkle over a handful of sugar, and moisten with a little cognac. After soaking half- an-hour, drain them, dip them into thin, sweet batter, and plunge them into hot frying fat. Cook them a few at a time, drain them, and serve hot, with fine sugar dusted over them. Apricot Ice.—Stew for a few minutes lib. of chopped-up Apricots and the peeled kernels of half of them in 1 pint of water with gib. of sugar. Eub the fruit, with the back of a