THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 93 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Beans—continued. into another saucepan. Stir well over the fire, add 1 oz. or 2oz. of butter, and, if required, a little of the Bean liquor, and serve. (3) Put 1 teaeupful of white Haricot Beans into a basin, pour over sufficient boiling water to cover them, and let them remain for five or six minutes; take off their skins, and plunge the Beans into cold water. The skins, being very indigestible, should always be removed before cooking. Pour lqt. of water over the Beans in a saucepan, add two onions and 2oz. of fat bacon or pickled pork, and boil for about three hours, by which time they should be perfectly tender. A little more boiling water should be added now and then, otherwise the Beans are liable to stick to the pan. Take out the bacon or pork, mince it as fine as possible, rub the remainder through a sieve into a saucepan, put in the mince, add more broth or water, according to the thickness of the soup required, boil well again, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve very hot. Should the skins not be taken off the Beans, they will require longer to cook. Potted Haricot Beans.—Take 1 pint or so of cold boiled Haricots—boiled in plain salted water. Pound them in a mortar, and add 3oz. or 4oz. of grated Cheshire cheese (or any other well-flavoured cheese), 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, 2oz. of butter, some salt, cayenne, and nutmeg to taste. Mix thoroughly, fill into small jars, pour warm butter over, and use as potted meat. This makes a nice savoury for luncheon, but must be highly seasoned, or it will be somewhat insipid. Preserved Haricot Beans.—For this the skins must be removed either by steeping the Beans in soft water for ten or twelve hours, or by pouring over them boiling water, letting it get cold, pouring it away, and adding more boiling water, by which time the skins can easily bo removed. Put the Beans into a saucepan with sufficient soft water to cover them, and boil until they are done, adding more boiling water as the other evaporates or is absorbed, and having only sufficient to moisten the Beans when done. Put them away in jars, and use as required. Puree of Haricot Beans.—New White Beans freshly-gathered and shelled are the best for a pur£e. Put them into boiling water if fresh, and into cold water if dried, with a little butter, which will make the skins mellow. When they are thoroughly cooked, throw in 1 table-spoonful of salt. Fry a sliced onion in a little butter, and when the slices are of a nice brown colour dredge them with about | table-spoonful of flour ; moisten with veal or other stock, and season with a little salt and pepper. When the flour is done, mix it all well with the Beans; let them boil fifteen minutes longer, squeeze them well, and then rub them through a sieve. Let the puree be rather liquid, as it is likely to thicken on the fire. A short time before it is served, mix a little butter with the puree. This makes a nice additional vegetable for roast pork and other meats. A squeeze of lemon-juice over them is an addition. Puree of Haricot Beans fl, la Soubise. —After soaking 1 pint of White Haricot Beans for four hours, cook them in a saucepan with loz. of butter and two sliced onions, and moisten with 3 pints of white broth, seasoning with % table- spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Boil for forty-five minutes; then rub through a fine sieve, and serve with a thickening made of the yolks of two eggs and i breakfast- cupful of cream. Add twelve forcemeat quenelles to the soup, and serve. Puree of Red Haricot Beans.—Put 1 pint of Red Beans into a saucepan of salted water, add one onion, one carrot, and a bunch of sweet herbs; put the saucepan on the fire, and boil until they are quite tender. When done, pour off the water, and rub the remainder through a fine sieve into another saucepan; add a little butter or gravy, and stew for a few minutes. Turn the puree on to a dish, garnish with pieces of toast or fried bread, and serve. Red Haricot Beans a la Bourguignonne.— (1) Put some Red Haricot Beans into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover them, and add a large lump of butter, one onion stuck with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil until the Beans are thoroughly done; then remove the herbs and onion, add salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of red wine; make the whole quite hot, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Beans—continued. (2) Take lqt. of Red Beans, piok out any stones; wash them thoroughly, lay them in plenty of cold water, and lot them soak for six hours. Drain, and put them in a saucepan, covering with fresh water, adding loz. of butter, a bouquet garni, and a medium-sized onion, with two cloves stuck in it. Boil for twenty minutes, stirring in 1 wineglassful of red wine; season with 1 pinch of salt and £ pinch of pepper, and let this cook for forty-five minutes longer. Remove, take out the onion and bouquet, place the Beans in a hot deep dish. Decorate with six small glazed onions round the dish, and serve. Red Haricot Bean Puree Soup.-—Place in a saucepan 1 pint of Red Beans previously soaked for four hours in cold water. Moisten with lqt. of white broth. Cook till soft, rub them through a sieve, and add 2oz. of blanched salt pork, one onion, one carrot, a bouquet garni, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Cook thoroughly for one hour; then strain, add i wineglassful of claret, and serve with 2 table-spoonfuls of small croutons of fried bread. Red Haricot Beans with Wine.—Put 1 pint of Red Haricot Beans into a saucepan with a piece of smoked blanched bacon and boil them. In the meantime, blanch two dozen small onions, fry them in butter, add a little broth, and reduce to a glaze. Drain the Beans, put them into a sauce- pan with 1 pint of white wine, reduce to about one-third, simmer gently for about fifteen minutes, and add a thicken- ing of well-kneaded butter. Turn the Beans on to a dish, garnish them with the bacon cut into slices and the glazed onions, and serve. Salad of Boiled Haricot Beans.—Lot the Beans be cold, put them in a salad-bowl, and season with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, and 1 table-spoonful of chervil and tarragon, chopped fine. Stewed Haricot Beans.—Take lqt. of Haricot Beans, and boil them till tender. Next take ^lb. of streaky bacon, remove tho rind, and cut the bacon into pieces lin. long and |in. thick; scald these for five minutes in boiling water, drain, and put into a 2qt. stewpan; stir over tho fire till of a light brown colour, then add ioz. of flour, and stir for throe minutes more; next add a tumblerful of French r'ed wine, 2 teacupfuls of water, and 1 saltspoonful of popper, and simmer for twenty-five minutes. Drain tho Beans, put them into the stewpan with tho bacon, and add loz. of butter. Toss over the fire till tho butter is melted, and serve very hot. Stewed Red Haricot Beans.—Remove tho rind of ilb. of streaky bacon, cut it up into pieces lin. long and Jin. thick, and put them into boiling water to blanch. Take them out in fivo minutes time, drain, put them into a large saucepan over the fire, and cook until they are of a light brown colour. Then add ioz. of flour, stir for two or three minutes longer, and add 3 teacupfuls of red wine, 2 tea- cupfuls of water, and a littlo pepper. Simmer gently on tho side of tho fire for twenty-five minutes, then add lqt. of boiled Red Haricot Beans and loz. of butter, and toss the pan for a few minutes to melt tho butter. Turn the whole out on to a hot dish, and serve. White Haricot Beans and Cream.—Put two or three boiled and mashed onions into a saucepan with 1 gill of cream, and add ljoz. of butter, a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. Now add about lqt. of cooked Haricot Beans, and stir gently over the lire until they are hot but without boiling; they aro then ready for use. White Haricot Beans in Gravy.—Put a littlo butter and flour into a saucepan to prepare a roux, put in a few chopped onions to brown them, and add a little gravy and stock and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Have ready some boiled Haricot Beans, toss them in tho roux for about ten minutes, add 1 table-spoonful or so more of the gravy, and pour the whole over the meat with which they are to be served. White Haricot Bean Puree.—Soak 1 pint of White Beans in water for a few hours, and boil them in lqt. of broth until they are soft. Rub the Beans and broth through a sieve, and add to the puree 2oz. of butter and a bouquet garni. Season with f table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Cook well for half-an-hour, then strain the soup,