206 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. BROUSSA TEA.—Tlie leaves of a plant known as Vaccinium Arctostapliylos, after being dried and slightly heated, are in some parts of North America much used as a substitute for tea, and occasionally find their way into teas which reach this market. BROUSSE—The French name for a sort of cheese obtained by boiling the whey of milk. It is the Brousso, or Bronco, of Provence, and the Corsican’s Braccio, and is made as follows: Curdle new milk with rennet, and strain the whey from the curds. The curds are made at once into cheese, but the whey is converted into Brousse by boiling. A sort of coagulation ensues which rises to the surface like a cream, is skimmed off, and put into a mould to drain. It is very delicate, and will only keep good for a few hours. BROWN BETTY.—“ This is English cousin of the Continental charlotte,” says Kettner, bread-and-butter and apples being largely concerned in the production of each; but there can be little doubt that the more elegant name has entirely superseded the commoner, at any rate at the table of the aristocrat. Pare, core, and slice a dozen large apples, and grate up the crumb of a half-quartern stale loaf. Put a layer of the breadcrumbs on the bottom of a large pie-dish, and over that a layer of sliced apples, brown sugar, small pieces of butter, and a slight grating of lemon- and orange-peel. More crumbs, fruit, sugar, butter, and zest until the dish is nearly full. Pour in a small teacupful of water, and then cover over the top with thin slices of bread-and-butter without crusts. Bake slowly, and shortly before removing it from the oven as done, dust freely over the top with caster sugar, and replace in the oven to finish and glaze. Served with cream this is delicious. Brown Betty may also be made with pounded rusks soaked in milk instead of bread- crumbs. A few drops of maraschino scattered between the layers improves the flavour greatly. BROWN SAUCE.—See Sauces. BROWNING-.—A preparation used to colour sauces and gravies. If made properly it should also add to the flavour of soups and other savoury dishes. Several receipts are given for its preparation, but the following may be considered about the best. Some of them are used as sauces. (1) Melt 11b. of brown sugar and loz. of butter in a frying-pan with 1 table-spoonful of water, and continue to heat it until the whole has turned to a deep brown; the heat may then be lowered a little, and some port wine (about 1 pint) gradually poured in; the pan must then be removed from the stove, and the mixture well stirred until the roasted sugar is entirely dissolved. Then put it into a bottle, and add £ oz. each of bruised pimento and black pepper, five or six shallots cut small, a little mace and finely- grated lemon-peel, and I pint of mushroom ketchup. The bottle must be shaken daily for a week, and the clear liquid, after macerating for five or six days, strained off into another bottle. Beer or water may be used instead of wine, and 1 wineglassful of spirit may be added, after bottling, to keep it. (2) One pint of sugar-colouring, lib. of salt, £ pint of mushroom ketchup, and mixed spice to taste, make a very good Browning for ordinary purposes. (3) Put 2|lb. of sugar in ^lb. of salad-oil, and heat to colour; then add a bottle of port wine, three bottles of sherry, 6oz. of shallots, ilb. cf mixed spice, 3oz. of black pepper, loz. of mace, lib. of salt, 1 pint of lemon-juice, and lqt. of ketchup, leave for some days to macerate; then strain into another bottle. (4) Take lqt. each of sugar colouring and mushroom ketchup, loz. each of Jamaica pepper, black pepper, and shallots, loz. each of cloves, cassia, and mace, bruised, and boil in a large stewpan for a few minutes; then macerate for two or three weeks, and strain. Chilli vinegar and British brandy or rum are frequently added to this. (5) Put Bb. of finely-powdered sugar into a frying-pan with loz. of butter, place the pan on the fire, and mix well Browning—continued. together; when it begins to froth, take it off the fire. When it becomes of a dark brown colour pour in 1 pint of red wine, a little at a time, keeping it well stirred; then add i teaspoonful of pepper, four shallots, two blades of mace, six cloves, and a little salt. Boil it slowly for about ten minutes, let it get cold, and then skim it. This should be put into bottles and well corked down, when it will keep for a long time. (6) Put 2oz. of sugar in a stewpan and place it on the fire ; stir it frequently so as not to let it burn, and very slowly add 1 breakfast-cupful of water. When all the sugar is dissolved, put it in bottles. Pea-shell Browning for Soups, &c,—Take a small quantity of shells (after the peas have been taken out), put a layer of them on a baking-sheet, put this in a slow oven, and bake them brown, but do not burn them. These shells must be added to soup or broth while boiling, when they will not only make the broth a nice colour, but will improve the flavour. BRUNOISE,—This is the French title for a sort of Julienne soup, made with carrots, turnips, and celery, and a variety of other vegetables. Brunoise.—Pare and cut into small squares three medium- sized carrots, one turnip, half an onion, and two leeks; put these with 2oz. of butter in a covered saucepan for a few moments, moisten with 3 pints of broth, and season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper; cook for three-quarters-of-an-hour, and then add a handful of c-hiffonade. When ready, serve with a few slices of toasted bread. Brunoise with. Rice.—The same as for Brunoise, adding a teacupful of uncooked rice about twenty minutes before serving. Taste to see if sufficiently seasoned, and serve. Brunoise with Sorrel.—The same as Brunoise, adding 2 good handfuls of chopped sorrel about two minutes before serving. BRUNSWICK CAKE.—See Cakes. BRUNSWICK SALAD.—See Salads. BRUSSELS SPROUTS (B rassica oleracea bullata gemmifera).—Although these tasty little vegetables are Fig. 219. Plant of Brussels Sprouts. of the great cabbage family, they are so exceptional in many respects that they merit independent treatment. They are a sub-variety of the savoy cabbage, and grow