40 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Apricots—continued. reign of Henry VIII. It is supposed by some to be a native of America, but by others of Africa. In China Apricots are very plentiful, and are employed in many ways by the people of that country. The flesh of the fruit of the wild tree is of little value, but it contains a very large kernel, from which an oil is extracted. The fruit of the cultivated tree is preserved wet by the Chinese in all the flavour of its kind; they make lozenges of the clarified juice, which afford a very agreeable beverage when dis- Fig. 40. Moorpark Apricot. solved in water. There are not many varieties of Apricots, and the difference in flavour is not readily distinguishable, although perhaps the Moorpark is the best (see Fig. 40). The coarser, and consequently cheaper, sorts of Apricots do quite as well as any other for cooking purposes ; and the green fruit picked from the trees during the process called “ thinning ” can be used for tarts in the same manner as green gooseberries. Tinned and dried Apricots are much used also, and very effectively sometimes, in combination with other fruits, such as rhubarb, apples, and plums. Apples in Apricot Jam.—See Apples. Apple and Apricot Meringue.—See Apples. Apricot d’Artois.—Boll out some patten paste rather thinly, about the size of the baking-sheet you are going to use. Lay the paste over this by winding upon the rolling-pin, ari spread some Apricot Jam all over it. Eoll out another piece the same size, and lay over the other by winding round the rolling-pin as before explained. With the back of a knife mark out pieces about 2in. by lin., or in diamonds same size, running the knife from top to bottom and crossways. Set in a moderate oven to bake. When done, let it cool, and when quite cold, cut it up through the marks, or stamp it out with a fancy-shaped cutter. Pipe each D’Artois with sugar round the edge and across the top, so as to leave spaces on each, which are to be filled in with apple and red-currant jelly. These form a very pretty dish when laid upon an ornamental dish-paper or neatly-folded napkin. The piping is very simple, and can easily be performed by anyone after reading the in- structions given under that head. Apricot Biscuits.—(1) Put the yolks of fourteen eggs into a basin, and beat in lib. of sifted, crushed loaf sugar and a small pinch of salt; add a little orange, lemon, or any other flavouring, and work well for about twenty minutes, when the mixture should have the consistence and appearance of cream. Put the whites of the fourteen eggs into a bowl, taking care that not a drop of the yolks is with them, whip into a stiff froth, and stir lightly into the yolks, adding gradually 4Joz. each of flour and potato or Indian corn-flour. Put this batter into a biscuit-forcer, and lay it Apricots—continued. out upon well buttered and floured baking-sheets in the shape of halves of Apricots, sprinkle them over with caster sugar, put them into a moderate oven, and bake to a light golden colour. Take them out, connect two of the halves together with a little Apricot Jam, cover them over with jam, and glaze with transparent Apricot Icing. Put them as soon as done upon a wire tray or sieve over a baking-sheet, dry in the hot closet, take them out, and they are ready for use. If preferred, royal icing, slightly coloured with orange sugar or gamboge, may be substituted for the transparent Apricot Icing. (2) Spread over some square, flat, thinnish pieces of sponge cake some Apricot Jam. Boil 21b. of sugar to a blow (see Sugar-boiling), add half a wineglassful of noyeau, boil again for half-a-minute, and then remove the boiler from the fire. Now work the syrup by rubbing with a spoon or spatula on the side of the boiler until the sugar granulates; .then dip Apricot Biscuits into this with a fork, and lay them on a sieve to set. Apricot Bombe ■with Maraschino.—This is given by Jules Gouffe, and deserves attention on that account. Make lqt. of Apricot Puree, and mix it with lqt. of syrup at 30deg.; strain this through a silk sieve into a basin. Put the yolks of fourteen eggs into a stewpan, with £ pint of syrup at 32deg., £ pint of cream, and 3 tablespoonfuls of maraschino; stir over the fire until the egg begins to thicken. Strain the cream through a silk sieve into a basin, and whip it until it becomes of the consistency of biscuit paste. Set two freezing-pots and a bombo-mould in some pounded ice and bay-salt. Put the Apricot Syrup into one freezing-pot, freeze, and work it with the spatula. Put the cream into the other pot, and work it with the spatula, adding £ pint of whipped cream. Line the mould with a coating of Apricot Ice lin. thick; fill the centre with maraschino ice, close the mould, and embed it in the ice for two hours. Turn the bombe out on a sheet of paper, cut it into slices fin. thick, cut each slice across, and dish the pieces on a napkin. Apricot Bonnes Boucli.es.—Prepare a biscuit batter as for Apricot Biscuits, put it into a biscuit-forcer, and squeeze out in rounds about ljin. in diameter, letting them fall upon a sheet of stiff paper spread over a baking-sheet. Sprinkle them over with a little caster sugar, and put in a moderate oven to bake a light golden colour. Take them out, trim, remove the paper by inverting and damping it, and put on a wire sieve. Take them up as required, place half an Apricot on each, allowing time for any moisture from the halves of Apricots to be absorbed by the sugar, then glaze with noyeau-flavoured icing, put in the hot closet or screen, and let them remain for a few minutes so that they may dry. Take them out, and they are ready for use. They are frequently required for ornamenting cakes, &c. Apricot Brandy.—(1) Put two dozen Apricots into a saucepan with a syrup made of Jib. of sugar and a little water. Boil them up in this, then take them out, put into jars, and when cold fill them up with brandy. Cover them over securely, and let them remain for several days, when they are ready for use. They may be carefully and thinly peeled after putting them into the syrup, but this way is not generally adopted. (2) Cut into halves three or four dozen Apricots, put them into a saucepan with sufficient syrup to cover them, and let them simmer gently on the side of the fire for five minutes. Let them remain in this for a day, then take them out and put into wide-mouthed bottles or jars. Put the saucepan with the syrup back on to the fire, and boil it down to the feather degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; then add an equal quantity of pale brandy to it, lot it get quite cold, pour it into the bottles or jars, cork them down, tie them over with bladder to exclude the air, and put them in a cool cellar until wanted for use. Apricot Cakes.—Eoll out a piece of puff paste—trimmings, or “ patten ” paste, as they are called, will do nicely Spread this over a baking-sheet, by first winding it on the rolling- pin, and then unwinding. Spread some Apricot Marma- lade with a spatula equally all over the paste. Next cut some more rolled paste into long, narrow strips, and roll it like a cord. Arrange these strips over the marmalade, and finish off the ends, soldering on to the edge of the pasto flat, by