94 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Bear’s Paws—continued. Beans—continued. and stir in 1 teacupful of good cream. Serve with sippets of toast. It is advisable not to let the soup boil again after adding the cream, and to remove the herbs before straining. Lima or Butter Beans.—Jerrold informs us in “ Our Kitchen Garden,” that “ The Butter Bean, Mount d’Or, or Golden Butter Bean, and Haricot d’Algiers, or Wax Runner, have not received the attention they deserve.” They gi-ow to the height of 6ft., are prolific bearers, and the pods having no tough inside skins, the Beans are cooked entire, forming a delicious dish when boiled and eaten with fresh butter, salt, and pepper. Lima Beans are greatly appreciated in the United States. Boiled Dried Lima or Butter Beans.—(1) Soak 1 breakfast- cupful of dried Lima Beans in water for two or three hours; then drain, and boil them in salted water for one hour. When cooked, drain ofE the water, put some pieces of butter in, then turn them all on to a dish, and serve. (2) Put the Beans to soak overnight. Next morning soak again in fresh water till two hours before they are wanted for dinner. Boil steadily in a covered saucepan nntil tender. Drain, and stir up with them 1 table-spoonful of fresh butter and a little salt. Boiled Lima Beans.—(1) Shell, and throw into cold water lqt. of Beans, and leave them ready for use. An hour before dinner put them into boiling water, add some salt, and boil them; when tender, drain off the water, and add 1 table-spoonful of fresh butter. These Beans want thoroughly cooking. (2) Boil thoroughly as above (No. 1), and when tender, drain, and stew them a little time with butter, pepper, salt, and 1 gill of cream. (3) Put the required quantity of Butter Beans into a saucepan of water, with a small piece of bacon and a little salt, and boil them until they are quite soft. Take them out, drain, and put them on a dish, sprinkle them well over with pepper, pour over a little melted butter, and serve. If desired, after the Beans have been boiled they may be fried or baked. Cream of Lima Beans.—Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with \ pint of mirepoix, 1 table-spoonful of flour', and 1 pint of boiled Lima Beans, seasoning with £ table-spoonful of salt. Moisten with 3 pints of white broth, and cook for thirty minutes. Then strain through a sieve, and serve with 1 teacupful of cream and a handful of croutons souffles. Lima Beans Sautes.—Take lqt. of freshly-shelled Lima Beans, or 3qts. of unshelled, and parboil them in salted water for about twenty minutes; then take them from the fire, drain, and cool in fresh water. Drain again, and place them in a saute-pan with l£oz. of butter, seasoning with ^ pinch each of salt and pepper, and -1, pinch of nutmeg. Cook for five minutes, tossing well; then moisten with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, adding 1 pinch of chopped parsley. Mix well together, and serve. BEAR. — Tlie flesh of this animal, if young and well kept (almost to spoiling), is very good eating: it has the taste of sweet pork, but is very dark-coloured, and, like pork, difficult to cook thoroughly. The meat of the Black Bear is considered to he the best, and a steak or roasted ham served with red or black-currant jelly, or cranberry sauce, is not by any means to be despised; indeed, such luxuries are high-priced—more on account probably of their scarcity than their quality. The flank and breast make good soup, stews, or ragouts. BEAR’S PAWS.—This exceptionally Russian dish has no place in English cookery; nevertheless, the manner of preparing it may be of some interest. Wash the bear’s paws, wipe, salt, and put them into a kitchen basin; cover them with cooked marinade, and let them macerate for two or three days. Spread a stewpan with trimmings of bacon and ham, and sliced vegetables; place the paws thereon, moisten with the marinade and a good broth, cover them with thin layers of bacon, and boil them for seven or eight hours on a slow fire, adding more broth as the stock reduces. The paws being tender, leave them in their stock until nearly cold ; then drain, wipe, and divide each of them into four pieces lengthwise; sprinkle over cayenne. pepper, roll them in melted lard and breadcrumbs, and broil them for half-an-hour over a very slow fire ; then dish up. Pour on th9 dish some piquante sauce, and stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly. The mode of dishing would depend upon a variety of circumstances. BPARNAIS(E). — This term is used in French cookery to signify common quality, and is applied chiefly to meat of stringy, lean character, such as might be expected from animals bred in mountainous districts, such as Beam, a province in the South-west of France. See Sauces. BfATXLI.ES. —Fr. for delicate luxuries, such as sweetbreads, cocks’ combs, Strasburg fat livers, and viands of that description. “ Une assiette de Beatilles” means a plate of dainty, choice food. BEAUFORT PUNCH.—See Punch. BEAUFORT PUDDING.—See Puddings. BEAULIEU CAKES—See Cakes. BEAULIEU PUDDING.—See Puddings. BEAUVILLIERS CAKE.—This is named after a celebrated French cook, who kept a famous restaurant in Paris, near the Palais Royal. He was also the author of “L’Art de Cuisinier” (1814), a work of considerable merit in those days. See Oakes. BECCAPICO.—See Fig -PECKER. BfCHAMEL.—A white sauce made of veloute (see Sauces) and milk reduced by boiling. It is named after Louis de Bechamel, or Bechameil, Marquis of Nointel, to whom its invention is attributed. Grinod, the French author, states that the Marquis of Bechamel was maitre d’hotel to Louis XIY., and was immortalised by inventing this sauce. Anyhow, it is a great favourite in all kitchens nowadays, and some receipts for its pre- paration will be found under Sauces. Bechamel graisse is another sauce of the same kind, but rather more elaborate in its preparation, being made of dice of bacon, veal-fat, several vegetables, and broth, the whole being highly seasoned with spices and aromatics. BEDAGOSA.—A fictitious coffee, prepared from cassia-seeds, and frequently used on the Continent for adulterating. BEEP (Fr. Bceuf ; Ger., Rindfleisch; Ital. Manzo, Carne di Bue; Sp. Yaca la Carne de la Yaca, 6 del Buey).—The English race are famous for their Beef, and owe much of their courage and prowess, it is said, to its consumption as food. “The glorious roast Beef of Old England” has for hundreds of generations past maintained its prime position amongst meats, and the noble sirloin continues uninterruptedly to occupy the principal position on a British table. Other countries have emulated this taste, and served up dishes of Beef prepared in several ways; but foreign Beef has not yet attained to the perfection of that grown in this country, so that failure in cooking may be, in some degree, attributed to inferiority of quality; but so long as the “ rage for I’agouts ” and other “ kickshaws ” con- tinues to influence foreign tables, observes a British gourmet, the probability of our Continental neighbours improving their physical powers by such noble joints as our ox supplies, need cause us no anxiety whatever. What is John Bull without Beef? A culinary writer from France, of some considerable eminence (Delamere), tells us that formerly to eat first-rate Beef, you had to go to London, where it used to be far better than in its native place in the immediate neighbourhood of the pastures where it was bred and fattened. Now, people complain