THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 179 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to; see under their special heads. Bread—contimied. which first taught man to grind the hard corn between stones and convert it into flour; and then a mere accident might have taught him liow to make this into Bread—perhaps the meal got wet in a shower and dried in the sun into a cake, and then follows the timid bait hungry man tasting his “ spoiled ” goods, and the reve- lation that it was not spoiled—nay, quite good—better even in this form than in the other. The leavening, or raising of Bread by the introduction of a ferment, does not suggest so ready an explanation, although it was evidently understood some centuries before the com- mencement of the Christian era. It may have originated with the Egyptians, who were well versed in tlic arts, and we know that the Jews were forbidden to eat leavened Bread at the time of the Passover—this telling of its existence. The Romans, who doubtless derived the art of making Bread from the Greeks, were early known as “ pulse-eaters,” and are shown by historians to have established bakeries for the manufacture of leavened Bread at least 200 years b.c. But there are many people still existing who make Bread without leaven, and amongst them are the Swedish lower classes, who j bake only twice a year a hard rye-loaf or biscuit, which has to serve them, as our sailors’ biscuits do, for a long time after leaving the oven. In Scotland, barley- bannocks and oaten-cakes are common food. The term loaf is stated to be derived from the Anglo- Saxon word hlif-ian—to raise, or lift up, and liloaf, or loaf—raised. Leaven takes its name and significance from the Latin word levo—I raise, or from the French lever. Dough is the derivate of the Anglo-Saxon deawian—to wet, or moisten; hence, dow, or dough, and dew. But however interesting these historical details may be, we have here to deal with more practical matter, such ar modern Bread-making. Bread, in this and most other civilised countries, is the I veritable “ staff of life,” and is in greater demand than I any other food known, forming as it now does one of the greatest industries in the world; but, like all other extensive domestic requirements, the making of Bread has been transferred from the home to the enterprising wholesale dealer. If housewives gain in tills by saving time and trouble, they lose much both in actual cost and purity of the production; for it is notorious that the loaves produced by the majority, if not all, of our bakers, are deficient in nourishing qualities, weight, and value, owing to substitution. The fear that a 41b. loaf should weigh a trifle over the specified amount, has troubled the bakers considerably of late. By a very simple calculation it can be shown that making Bread at home effects a very extensive saving in cost, besides producing a genuine food; and the degree of nourishing qualities it contains may be reckoned as more than doubled. It is to that unhappy “ substitution,” as it is politely called, that the quality of our “staff of life” has fallen to the lowest ebb, especially amongst small producers, whose turnover will not allow them to compete against great makers unless they cheat their customers with bad flour, short weight, or adulterations called “ substitutions.” It is not our province here to go deeper into this matter, but to give housewives ample directions for the manufacture of the family supply of Bread in its purest, best, and therefore most nutritious state. The fact that bakers have so seriously failed to produce the genuine article has evoked numerous introductions of varieties backed up by chemical opinion; but the simple fact is, that Bread made honestly from the best wheaten- flour cannot be excelled by any one of these new productions in any one of the particulars in which their inventors claim precedence. Bread is generally either white or brown, and the latter is supposed to possess certain qualities that the plain white does not. White Bread, with which we have principally to do, is made in three qualities, depending Bread—continued. chiefly upon tlic quality of the flour: 1st, Wheaton Bread, or “ firsts,” of the finest flour, entirely free from bran; 2nd, Household Bread, or “ seconds,” which is a trifle coarser, and not quite so free from bran; and 3rd, Brown Bread, or “ thirds,” which contains a great deal of bran, and is often of an inferior flour. The great secret of making Bread is to attend thoroughly to the kneading, and if this be observed, together with the instructions given hereunder, the whole mystery is at an end, and the home manufacture of Bread no longer need be a process of difficulty. The following is a receipt given in the Guide to the Trade for making a very fair quality of Bakers’ Bread: Take \ bushel of best wheaten flour, and put it all except about 41b. into a tub or pan, in winter placing’ it before the fire to warm; mix Goz. or Soz. of powdered salt with the flour, or work it in with the dough. Then take 1 pint of good fresh yeast —German yeast is sometimes used—and mix it well with a sufficient quantity of water at blood heat; make a deep hole in tho middle of the flour, pour the water and yeast gradually into it, mixing the whole together with tho hands until all are well incorporated. Cover this mixture up, and place it near the fire until it is well risen; then work tho remaining flour into it till it becomes a nice, smooth, tough dough. Make this dough into loaves, and bake in an oven properly heated. It will take from an-hour- and-a-half to two hours in baking, but the Bread should always remain in the oven half-an-hour after it has become brown, or it will not be cooked through. Aerated Bread requires for its production the employment of a very elaborate and expensive plant; but the following is given as a very good imitation of the real thing: Mix into 51b. of sifted flour |oz. of bicarbonate of soda, £ drachm of carbonate of ammonia, and 4 drachms or teaspoon- fuls of common salt; when these arc thoroughly incorporated, add the following solution: 50oz. or 2} imperial pints of cold water, and 5 drachms of hydrochloric acid. This Bi’ead should be baked in a rather quick oven until it is well browned and crusty. “ This Bread,” says Dr. Smith, of Leeds, “ is easily made, requires little labour, no kneading, and no time for the dough to rise. It costs a trifle more than Bread made with yeast, but has the advantage of keeping longer without turning mouldy or sour, and is wholly free from any bitter or unpleasant taste. Its dietetic properties are of the utmost importance. Common Bread is liable in weak stomachs to turn sour, and produce heartburn and flatulency, and to aggravate cases of dyspepsia; but Bread made by the new process is free from these baneful effects. Its daily use in health prevents these symptoms, and in many cases it corrects that morbid condition of the stomach and intestines on which these symptoms depend. It is useful in assisting to restore the biliary, and especially the renal, secretions to a healthy condition, as well as in the treatment of various cutaneous eruptions, originating in disorder of the di- gestive functions.” Another receipt is given for Aerated Bread by a Mr. Dean: Take 41b. of the very best flour, ^oz. of bicarbonate of soda, 4j fluid drachms of hydrochloric acid, \oz. of common salt, and 40 fluid ounces, or 2 imperial pints, of cold water. Mix tho soda perfectly witli the flour, and the acid with the water, then the whole intimately and speedily together, using a flat piece of wood, or spaddle, for the purpose. This may be made into two loaves, and put into a quick oven immediately. It will require about half-an-hour to bake. In this kind of Bread, kneading will prove injurious by making it too heavy. The dough must not bo too stiff. As regards the shapes of loaves (see Plate), they arc, to a great extent, matter of taste and fancy; but custom has provided some sort of regulation and order in this, by which various kinds and qualities of Bread may Ire known. For instance, we have the Square and Long Household, x 2