237 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For'details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. paste out into small square buttered tins, place three strips of almonds on the top of each, dust them over with caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn them out when done, and use as required. Genoa Cake.— (1) Put the yolks of twenty-five eggs into a basin with 2J teacupfuls of caster sugar and 5 table-spoonfuls of ground almonds; beat them with a wooden spoon till very light, then mix in the well-whisked whites of eight eggs and Pig. 2V1. Ge.noa-caice Pan (Mathews ami Son). 6oz. of sifted flour. Butter a square baking-tin (see Pig. 271), pour in the batter, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the Cake out of the tin, leave it till cold, then cut it into small squares, or diamond-shaped pieces. The pieces of Cake can bo fancifully arranged on a dish, or masked with jam or preserves. (2) Slightly warm lib. of butter, then beat it to a cream, adding gradually lib. of caster sugar; mix in twenty-five eggs, adding them one at the time till all are used, and working the mixture well after each addition. When the mixture begins to rise, sift in gradually ljlb. of flour, beat it well, then add 2Jlb. of well-washed and dried currants and ljlb. of chopped candied orange-peel. Butter a square tin, and pour in the mixture; blanch and chop some sweet almonds, strew them thickly over the Cake, and bake in a moderate oven. (3) Slightly warm Jib. of butter, being very careful not to oil it; beat it till creamy, then add Jib. of caster sugar and beat it again. Mix in 6oz. of well-cleaned sultanas, 3oz. of finely-chopped candied peel, and the grated rind of one lemon. Work the above ingredients well together for a few minutes, then add 2oz. of chopped blanched almonds, Fig. 272. Slice of Genoa Cake with Jam. loz. of pistachio-kernels, and lOoz. of flour in which 1 tea- spoonful of baking-powder has been mixed, and lastly mix in five eggs, adding them one at the time. Butter a shallow tin, put in the Cake mixture, and bake it for an-hour-and- a-half in a moderate oven. When cooked, leave the Cake till cold, and cut it into convenient-sized pieces (see Fig. 272). (4) Mix in a basin -Jib. of caster sugar, the grated peel of one lemon, four eggs, Jib. of sifted flour, and 1 small pinch of srlt. Melt Jib. of butter in a pan, pour it in the paste, and mix thoroughly with a wooden spoon. Put into a buttered oblong mould and bake for about three-quarters-of-au-hour. Turn it out and let it cool. (5) Put Coz. of flour into a basin with 8 table-spoonfuls of sugar, two eggs, 1 liqueur-glassful of brandy, and flavour with a few drops of any kind of essence. Stir these ingre- dients with a wooden spoon until well mixed, then add two more eggs, stir and mix for a minute longer, then put in four more eggs, and stir again until mixed. Put Jib. of Cakes—continued. butter into a basin and set it near the fire until melted; mix with it about 2 table-spoonfuls of the mixture, then turn the whole into a basin and mix well. Butter a baking- tin, put in the mixture, and bake it in a slow oven. When the top of the Cake is browned, turn it over and brown the underneath. Take the Cake out of the tin when it is quite cooked, leave it until cold, cut it into strips about 2in. long, and again across so as to make pieces of a lozenge shape; arrange them on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet pudding sauce. Ornament the sides with coloured icing, and surround the base with half-cherries (see Fig. 273). (6) Slightly warm 3 Jib. of butter, but be careful not to oil it; then beat it to a cream with 3 Jib. of caster sugar; add thirty eggs, one at the time, while heating, and when all are used mix in 61b. of flour, beating it well in ; then add 51b. of well-washed and dried currants, ljlb. of chopped mixed peel, and 1 pint of skim-milk, in which f teaspoonful of cream of tartar and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda have been dissolved. More or less milk can be used, according to the stiffness of the paste. Line a square pan with buttered paper, put in the batter to about 3in. in thickness, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, leave the Cake for one day, then take it out of the tin, remove the paper, and cut the Cake into convenient-sized pieces. (7) Put Jib. of blanched almonds into a mortar, pound them well, adding a little white of egg or rose-water to prevent them oiling, then put them into a basin with Coz. of flour, Coz. of pounded loaf sugar, 2oz. of orange sugar, 1 table-spoonful of brandy, the yolks of eight eggs and whites of two, sprinkle in a very little salt, and work the whole together with a spoon for a few minutes. Melt Jib. of butter, add to it a little of the above mixture, work it well in, and then add the re- mainder. Pour the preparation into a well-buttered baking- sheet having an upturned edge, spread it over evenly, put it into a very slow oven, and bake. When done, it may be cut into any desired forms, and served cold, masked with jam, cream, chocolate, or anything else that may be preferred. (8) Take the weight of seven eggs each in flour, sugar, and butter, and half the quantity of blanched, pounded almonds. Put the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, work vigorously for several minutes, and when light, work in a little salt and lemon-zest; then add the flour and the almonds, a little at a time. Now add 3oz. of potato-flour, the butter, slightly melted, and lastly 4 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Cover a buttered baking-sheet with buttered paper, pour the preparation over, smooth it with a knife to about Jin. in thickness, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for about forty-five minutes. Turn the paste on to a table covered with a sheet of paper, let it get cool, cut it into strips 4in. long, turn them over, mask them with a thin layer of apricot marmalade, cover this over with a thin coating of icing, flavoured with rum or kirschenwasser, smooth the surface with a knife, divide the Cakes transversely so as to have them ljin. wide, by 3in. in length, put them into a dry closet, and let them remain until the icing is set; they will then be ready for serving. (9) En Ceoquenbotjche.—Mix Jib. of flour with Jib. of melted butter and Jib. of caster sugar, and beat in four eggs. Butter a