TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 167 for details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bones—continued. prepared from them, as explained above. The gelatine can also be extracted by long and continued boiling, and then nothing but the hard earthy salts remain, the Bones being then quite brittle and not pliable. It is easy to detect when a Bone is done with—that is, all the gelatine used up — by all the cavities having the appearance of sponge. There should bo no waste in the kitchen, and a good cook will commit Bonos of all or any sorts to the stock-pot rather than to the rag-and-bone-man’s bag. Whether Bones have meat upon them or not, an excellent soup can be made from them as follows: Put as many as you have or can get into a stock- pot or digester, and cover them with water. Let them boil for some hours—the longer, within reason, the better: say from six hours upwards, taking care to replace the water with more that is hot as fast as it boils off. Add, some con- siderable time before the soup is required, to every gallon, two large carrots sliced thin, 1 handful of celery trimmings, two or three sprays of sweet herbs, i handful of parsley, two or three onions sliced coarsely, two or three blades of mace, 2 teaspoonful of cloves, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, and 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, continuing to boil freely. Within half-an-hour of the soup being required, strain it off, removing all fat; beat up a couple of eggs, shells and all, with a teacupful of cold water, stir well into the soup, simmer for thirty minutes, strain, and serve. Devilled Bones.—Select those Bones, especially beef, that have not been quite stripped of their meat; indeed, there should be sufficient left on them to afford a good substantial picking. Mix together 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard and the same quantity of salt, and make up with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Rub this well into and over the Bones, dust lightly with cayenne pepper, and broil. Serve with mushrooms fried in butter. Marrow-bones.—These may be devilled or boiled, but in each case the ends should be carefully sealed with a stiff paste made with flour and water. Servo with slices of hot buttered toast, without crust, and a marrow-spoon, so that the marrow may be transferred to the toast. BONING.—This, like every other process of cookery, requires some practical experience; hut is not considered by cooks to present any difficulties that cannot be readily mastered. A small Boning-knife (Pig. 178) is required, with a sharp, short, pointed blade, and with this it is the aim of the operator to remove the external flesh from Fig. 178. Boning-knife. birds, fish, and joints, that the space from which the bone is taken may be stuffed with forcemeats and other things, in such a manner that the carving also shall be reduced to the simplicity of cutting a slice right through. Boning a Chop.—The operator commences at the big end of the bone, and by a “ scraping ” movement of the knife- point removes the meat quite cleanly, without jagging or ragging, until the smooth part of the rib is reached, when the meat can almost be stripped off by pressing along with the finger and thumb. Should there be any of the tender “under-cut” attached to the bone, it must be removed in a similar manner, and replaced in position after the bone is away. Boning Fish. — Boning fish, whether round or flat, is the next in order of difficulty. It should be commenced by carefully stripping off the skin and then laying the body flat on a board, and commencing from the tail, work towards the head, passing the point of the knife under the flesh close upon the bone. Continue to work down by a scraping motion over the ribs, holding the flesh so carefully in the left hand as not to injure the flakes. Having stripped the top side, work upon the under-side in the same way until Boning—continued. the skeleton can be raised and taken away, and the flesh remain on the board. Lay it open and pull out all the small bones you can feel with your fingers and thumbs. Flat fish are always filleted (see Plaice, Soles, &c.), and small bony fish, such as chad and herrings, are too troublesome to bo boned; but cod, mackerel, haddock, and others like them, answer very well prepared in this way. The next step depends upon the mode of cooking determined upon, and this will bo found under the namo of the particular fish boned. Boning a Leg of Mutton.—A leg of mutton for boning should be cut off the carcase as high as possible, and the boning is ccmmenced by loosening the flesh round the first joint, leaving all gristle and tendon undisturbed on the bone. It would, of course, be a very simple operation to open the leg in its entire length, and dissect the bone out, but that would expose the meat to a loss of gravy in cooking, besides necessitating its being sewn up—a disfigurement to be avoided if possible. Continue clearing the bone by feel if you cannot see, pressing the meat down until the other joint is reached, when more care will be required to work round it, and a very little work after that will clear the bone. The next step is to stuff the centre from which the bone has been extracted; tie up both ends, and cook. Bolling Poultry.—Poultry, such as fowls and turkeys, are the most difficult of all to bone, not even excepting hares and rabbits, which are seldom prepared for cooking in this way. Take care to procure perfectly fresh birds, without a wound in the skin. Remove the head and pin feathers, singe, and wipe clean ; if a turkey or capon, cut off the feet in such a manner that the tendons at the sides of the leg joint remain uncut; pull these out by force. Next, loosen the skin round the end of the drumsticks with the point of the boning-knife, set the bird on its breast (undrawn), and make an incision through the skin from the neck to the middle of the back, or as far as where the side bones are joined on. Then loosen the flesh from the backbone along one edge of the incision, lifting with the finger and thumb, and working towards the shoulder-blade ; over that to the first wing joint; sever the ligaments of this, and continue on along the collar-bone, or merrythought, to the breast, remem- bering that the skin over the crest of the breastbone is thin, and there is no flesh under it. The flesh in the grooves of the breastbone may be left, and the skin stripped off it, being cut out afterwards as fillets, and placed in the interior; but most cooks lift it with the first operation, and use the flat handle of the knife, if it has one, to work under it and raise it uncut. Repeat this operation on the other side, and you will have a very important part of the work done. (Some cooks force the meat off the first wing bone, down to the second joint, and cut it off there, leaving the next bones as being of use in preserving the shape of the wings, and not in the way of the carving; but others leave the first bones of the wings and legs until all the rest is away, and then remove those after. One plan is quite as good as another, and equally effectual). Next, work down towards the hip joints, and press and scrape off the flesh to the second joint, leaving the drumstick for future operation. Remove the skin and flesh from the membrane covering the belly, strip down to the tail and cut that off, leaving it with a small piece of the backbone in the bird. Now remove the bones of the wings and logs just as explained for the leg of mutton, and you will have taken the flesh off the bird’s bones almost as easily as you can draw off a glove. Stuff the bird as directed under its particular heading, sew up, and truss as if it had not been boned, bracing up tightly the lower parts of the body with strips of cloth, so that it shall maintain something like its original shape. Another way of Boning a bird when it is required to be rolled up for a galantine is to cut off the wings at the second joint, break the drumsticks midway between the joints, cut the skin down the entire length of the backbone, and strip the flesh as before down to the second joint of the wing, turning the limb inside out as the bone is pulled through; pass over the breast, leaving the flesh on the breasBone until last; work down to the legs in the same way, turning them also inside out, and then remove the skeleton, stuff the interior, roll up tight, and sew up along the length of the bird and at both ends.