67 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Bakewell Pudding—continued. Two dozen sweet almonds, 2oz. of dried cherries, and 41b. of pears, will be sufficient. Place the pudding in a quick oven, aud bake for twenty minutes; then take it out, and serve. A little sugar and salt beaten with the eggs is an improvement. (4) Put 4oz. of finely-crushed loaf sugar into a basin, and mix in the grated peel and juice of two lemons, and the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs and whites of two. When these are all well mixed, pour in 3oz. of melted butter. Have ready a dish lined with puff paste and masked with straw- berry, raspberry, or any other preserve to about 4in. in thick- ness, pour in the pudding mixture, set the dish in a sharp oven, and bake until done. Take it out, and serve. Bakewell Pudding with Almonds.—Put 3oz. each of breadcrumbs, sugar, blanched and finely-shred almonds, and warmed butter into a basin, and mix with them a little nut- meg, the juice and grated rind of half a lemon, and lastly, add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, spread a layer of raspberry or strawberry jam about Jin. thick on the bottom, pour the mixture in, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for twenty minutes, when the pudding should be quite done and ready to bo served. BAKING. —The literal meaning of this term, we are informed, is drying or hardening by heat, such as the surface of the earth by the action of the sun; but in cooking parlance it is generally accepted that the process of Baking is, broadly speaking, “cooking in an oven.” The Germans use the term baclcen—to bake ; but it is peculiar that neither the French, Spanish, nor Italians have any verb which expresses the operation in a word; thus the French for “to bake” is cuire au four ; Italian, cuocere al forno; Spanish, cocer en homo; all literally signifying “ to cook in an oven.” This being the accepted meaning of the term, a few words on the general management of an oven will not be out of place, leaving the description of the various styles of construction to special headings, under which the most recent information obtainable will be found. See Ovens and Stoves. Fig. 71. Improved Baking-dish, with Grid, Double Jacket, and Basting Well. (Wilson Engineering Company.) It is of the highest importance that the oven shall be scrupulously clean before anything is put into it to bake; this precaution being essential to the preservation of pure flavoiu's, but one unhappily too frequently neglected. Large ovens are best for baking bread and joints, because the temperature is more even, and can be better regulated. In a small oven the variation of heat is generally very great, for the mere opening of the door to examine the food may cool the interior. In all cases care should be taken not to slam the door when closing it, as'by doing so you are apt to drive out the hot air by the gust created. An oven that is intended for baking meat should have a ventilator, which ought to be left open, because certain empyreumatic gases and odours escape from the meat as.it is cooking, which by being re-absorbed render the joint unpalatable and tough; and again, without such means of exit, meat will bake sodden by the action of its own vapour. Some ovens are fitted with thermometers set in the Baking—continued. door, with the bulb inside, but registering outside. Upon the index is marked the various degrees required for cooking various foods; but, although very highly spoken of by experienced cooks, thermometers are not calculated to find much favour in private houses. First, because they are very easily broken, and secondly, because they are not understood by “ plain cooks,” as they are called, who prefer to trust to their “feel” of the handle, or some other “rule of thumb,” rather than to the scientific indications of a thermometer. It is not unusual Fig. 72. Baking-sheet. for cooks to test the heat of an oven by placing a piece of white wrapping-paper on the baking-sheet. If it ignites soon after the door is closed, the oven is too hot for any kind of cookery; if it merely scorches, it is at what has been styled “ dark-brown-paper heat,” and will suit for bread. “Liglit-brown-paper heat” is a few degrees lower, and answers for meat pies. “ Dark-yellow- paper heat” is necessary for cakes and pastry; and “ light yellow ” proclaims a very slow oven. Sprinkling flour on the baking-sheet is another good test; the flour giving the same indications as the paper. In either case the heat must be judged by the colour given to the paper, or hour, within a very short time—say two or three minutes—of closing the oven door upon it. Before starting upon an important Bake, it is well to see that the hues are thoroughly cleaned and free from soot and ashes; unless they are so, you cannot expect to have the oven hot. For anything that rises, such as pastry and bread, the oven should be hot at first, and cooled afterwards, if the heat continues so great as to threaten burning. When first heated, the air in the body of the pastry expands and lifts the crust up in hakes with it. If the heat of the oven is not great enough to set the pastry as it rises, the air will escape, and the paste settle down again, eventually being heavy, or “sad,” as it is sometimes called. Some cakes burn quickly, especially those with much sugar in them, such as sponge-cake; for these the oven should be cooler, and a piece of buttered paper be laid over the cake as a further precaution against scorching the top. Baking meat is said to be a more economical style of cooking than roasting, because less evaporation takes place. But the notion impresses itself upon one that the advantage is in the saving of trouble in watching and basting—although baking-meats require basting occa- sionally. Get your oven hot whilst you are preparing the dish, for most dishes bake better when fresh prepared ; and remember that the top shelf is always the hottest. Every cook has his particular fancy in shape, size, and fashion of what are called baking-dishes, and it may be taken for granted that each style has its merits. The baking-dish, of which an illustration is given (Fig. 71), is fitted with a double jacket, stand, and well for basting-gravy. The advantages of this will be readily understood after reading this article. The object of the double jacket is that, although the hotter air surrounds the tin, the heat is not conducted by a continuity of metal from the fire direct to the fat, or dripping, which would then probably be burned, and give a disagreeable taste to the meat. li & 1 2