49 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Artichokes—continued. and a piece of baking-soda the size of a bean have been dis- solved. Boil for about half-an-hour, or until the soft end of the leaf is tender. Serve with butter. Artichoke Bottoms for Canapes.—Cook some Artichokes, spread over the bottoms some Anchovy Butter, and decorate them with pickled cucumbers, capers or gherkins, anchovies, and the whites and yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Pour over them a salad dressing, and garnish with water-cresses. Artichoke Bottoms with French Beans.—This is essen- tially a Continental dish, and one that is deservedly a favourite. Unfortunately, the Globe Artichokes are too rare in this country to admit of such extravagance, but it may be known that these bottoms, in a state of preservation in tins, are easily obtainable from warehouses or shops supplying special French comestibles. The Artichoke Bottoms (see Fig. 46, /) are to be first partially boiled; then arrange them one by one in a flat stewpan, and moisten with sufficient white broth very fat, the juice of two or three lemons, and a little white wine to cover them over. Lay a buttered paper over them, and finish the cooking gently. Take 1 pint of French beans, and mince or leave whole. Put them in boiling water, with plenty of salt, and boil over a hot fire until done. Drain in the usual way, and after dropping into a stewpan a good jib. of butter, season a little as required, and toss them well over the fire until the butter is all melted; then add the juice of a couple of large lemons. Pile up in a pyramid on a dish (see Fig. 48), and arrange the Artichoke Bottoms round them like shields, slightly overlapping. The Artichoke Bottoms should be selected as nearly one size as possible. This dish is to be had for the asking in almost any Continental dining-room. Artichoke Bottoms for Garnish.—Cut off all the top leaves and trim the under ones of the required number of Artichokes, put them into a saucepan of slightly-salted water, and boil until the skin can easily be removed. Take them out, skin, trim, and turn them, put them into a saucepan with a com- position of flour, water, salt, lemon, and butter, and cook until quite tender. Remove the pan from the fire, let them get quite cold in the mixture, and take them out when wanted. Artichoke Cream.—Put half-a-dozen Artichokes into a sauce- pan of slightly-salted water, and parboil them; take them out, trim off the leaves, squeeze out the edible part of them into a sieve, scoop out the chokes, and rub them through with the pulp from the leaves into a basin. Mix up this puree with a little well-whipped cream, put the whole into a mould, set it in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam for about twenty minutes, or until the puiAo mixture is done. Turn it out of the mould on to a dish, pour round a little cream sauce, and serve. A small quantity of onions, boiled and rubbed through a sieve, may be added to the Artichoke pulp if desired. Artichokes and Eggs.-Prepare and boil half-a-dozen Arti- choke bottoms, arrange them on small pieces of toast or fried bread cut into rounds a little bigger than the Artichoke bottoms, and on top of each put half a hot hard-boiled egg, with the point upwards. Pour over melted butter or gravy, and serve very hot. Artichokes—continued. Artichokes Cooked in Italian Style.—(1) Take a dozen Artichokes, or as many as may be required, and trim them, cutting them into quarters (see Fig. 46, d, e), and removing the fibrous centre. Throw them into boiling water for ten minutes, with a pinch of salt. Having done so, remove and drain them ; now arrange them in a saute-pan, having first spread 6oz. of butter over the bottom of it. Sprinkle a little caster sugar over them, and season with pepper and salt. Add 1 wineglassful of white wine and 1 gill of chicken stock, and let these simmer for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Dish them up in the shape of a dome. Put into the saut<5- pan ^ pint of Spanish sauce, stir over the fire for five minutes, strain, and pour over the Artichokes before serving. (2) Parboil some Artichoke bottoms as previously described. Chop a few onions very small, brown them in butter, mix them, without mashing them, with equal quantities of grated breadcrumbs and grated cheese. Fill the Artichoke bottoms with this mixture, piling it up, set in the oven to brown, and serve hot, with a squeeze of lemon over them. This makes a wonderfully tasty dish. Artichoke Omelet.—Select half-a-dozen or so fresh, tender Artichokes, free of all fibre, cut off all the green leaves, and cut the others to half their height; chop the Artichokes in halves, and cut them again into long thin slices. Put these into a frying-pan with a little butter, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and fry until done, turning them frequently, so as to cook them on both sides and thoroughly. Take them out and put them on a sieve to drain. Put ten eggs into a basin with a slight seasoning of salt and pepper, beat them well for a minute or so, add the prepared Artichokes and a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley, pour the omelet into an omelet-pan with a little butter, and when it thickens, roll it. Take it out when done, put it on a dish, and serve. Artichoke Soup.—Mince some cooked Artichoke bottoms, fry them with a little butter, season them well, thicken with a few table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce and a little glaze, and pass them through a fine sieve or tammy. Dilute this puree with 3qts. of stock ; pass it through a tammy into a stewpan ; boil up, and then remove at once to the side of the stove, and let it remain there for a quarter-of-an-hour; skim off the fat, and thicken the soup with the yolks of four eggs; then pour it into the tureen, and serve. Artichokes Stewed in Gravy.—Trim off the leaves and remove the chokes or cores from the required number of Artichokes, plunge them into a bowl of lukewarm water, and let them soak for several hours, changing the water frequently. Take them out, drain, put into a saucepan with a little gravy flavoured with mushroom or other ketchup, and add a little lemon-juice, and a small quantity of butter kneaded with flour, to thicken. Put the saucepan on the fire (not too fierce a one), and boil for about twenty-five minutes, when the Artichokes should be done. Take them out, arrange on a dish, strain the liquor over, and serve. Artichoke and Tomato Salad. — Prepare a mixture of chervil, tarragon, salt, pepper, vinegar, and oil; dip some cooked Artichoke bottoms and slices of tomatoes into this, arrange them alternately in a salad-bowl, pour over salad dressing, and serve. Bonnes Bouches of Artichokes.—Take about one dozen Arti- chokes, cut off the tips, and trim them well; throw them into hot lard for a few minutes; take them out, and drain them on a cloth, so as to absorb all the lard. Having done this, remove the fibrous substance from the centre, and fill up with a mixture made as follows: Chop up very fine six or eight button mushrooms, some sprigs of parsley, four shallots, and ^lb. of ham ; put these into a stewpan, with a little pepper and salt, also a little chopped thyme, and stir over the fire for five minutes; then add the yolks of four eggs and 1 wineglassful of white wine. Having filled the centre with this mixture, cover over each Artichoke with a thin slice of fat bacon, tie them up with string, and put them in a large stewpan with some of the fat bacon at the bottom; moisten with 1 tumblerful of wine and about the same quantity of chicken stock. Put on a tight-fitting cover, and bring to a boil; then place in an oven to simmer for about an hour. When done, remove carefully, drain, and put them upon the dish. Put into the centre of each 1 tea- H & I