20 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, <fee., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Anchovies—continued. groove, and chopped hard yolk of egg along the two outer or reverse this order. Arrange the charged toasts with regularity on a dish previously fitted with an ornamental dish-paper. (2) Butter some square pieces of fried or toasted bread, and spread over them a little Anchovy paste. Chop up very fine a little mustard-and-cress or lettuce; boil hard two eggs, chop up the white, and rub the yolks through a very fine sieve; arrange these cress and eggs on the paste in circles, triangles, or any other design, put - the croutons of bread on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve quite cold. (3) Cut half-a-dozen little French rolls lengthwise into halves, and scoop out the crumb. Set the crust to dry before a fire. Chop up some hard-boiled eggs sufficient to fill the roll shells, and mix with this a little finely-chopped tarragon, chervil, and chives; mix into a paste in a basin with tarragon vinegar and salad oil, and season nicely with pepper and salt. Fill the crusts with this mixture, and lay thin slips or shreds of Anchovy fillets lattice-wise over them. This makes an elegant liors-d’ceuvre. (4) Cut some rounds of bread about 4in. in diameter. In the meantime, have the required quantity of boned Anchovies, capers, hard-boiled yolks and whites of eggs, all very finely chopped. Put one of these ingredients in a small circle in the centre of the round of bread, then a little larger circle of another of them, and so on until there are the four circles. They should be varied as much as possible; or they may be put in quarters on the rounds, or in any other artistic design. Arrange them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Anchovy Essence.—Very useful to have in stock, and can be made after a variety of receipts. The following will be found vastly superior to the essence sold in many shops: Take ^lb. of boned and cleaned Anchovies, beat them to a pulp in a mortar, and rub this through a hair sieve. Boil in £ pint of water for a quarter-of-an-hour the bones and trimmings of the Anchovies, and add to this liquor, when strained, loz. each of salt and flour, the flour to be first mixed with a little cold water. A saltspoonful of cayenne pepper may be added or not, according to taste. Having these materials ready, stir the fluid into the Anchovy pulp by degrees, being careful to mix all smooth, and then simmer the whole slowly for a few minutes ; remove, and pour into a large jug. When cold, stir in briskly 1 teacupful of strong pickling vinegar. The essence is now ready for bottling-, and if required to keep, the corks must be tied over with bladder or sealing-waxed. Note.—The addition of 1 teacupful of mushroom or walnut ketchup improves the quality, and the thin peel of a lemon boiled with the liquor is another optional flavouring. If a high colour is desired, cochineal or annatto may be used without harm. Ancliovy Essence, for Chops, Steaks, &c.—Fillet nine Anchovies, then bone and wash them, and pound in a mortar with 1 table-spoonful of capers and a chopped shallot. Put these into a stewpan, with a bay-leaf, a little thyme and parsley, 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a little mace, and 1 pint of good chicken stock. Eeduce this to one-half, add a little lemon-juice, and rub through a close hair sieve. It will then be ready for use. Ancliovy Fritters.—Cleanse, bone, and fillet two dozen good Anchovies, steep them in vinegar for an hour or two, and then dry them with a cloth. Take up the fillets, removing all small bones, and spread them on a plate. Anoint them with salad oil, and sprinkle over some finely-chopped parsley. Five minutes before they are required, roll up each fillet, tie it with thread, dip it in batter, and plunge them into a pan of fat so hot that water dropped upon it hisses, splutters, and flies off in steam. In a very short time the batter will be fried light brown, when the fritters must be removed with a skimmer. Place them on a strainer to dry, and then range them on a neatly-folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, and garnish with fried parsley. Anchovy Ketchup.—Put 8oz. of Anchovies and half-a-dozen small-sized onions into a saucepan with 2qts. of mild ale, and add two cloves, three blades of mace, two dozen peppercorns, a small quantity of whole ginger, and 1 tea- Anchovies—continued. spoonful of crushed loaf sugar. Set the saucepan on the fire, and boil the liquor up quickly; then remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about forty- five minutes. Pass the liquor through a very fine sieve into a basin, mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, pour it into bottles when cold, cork them down securely, and the ketchup is ready for use. Anchovies with Olives. — Thoroughly, wash and cut off the fillets of four Anchovies, and chop them up very fine with a very little parsley and onion ; put the whole into a mortar and pound it well, adding a little cayenne fox- seasoning. Cut nine large Spanish olives in halves, take out the stones, and fill them with the pounded Anchovy mixture. In the meantime, cut nine small rounds of bread about lin. in thickness and l|in. in diameter, scrape out a little from the centre of each, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry to a nice light golden colour. Take them out, drain, arrange when cold on a napkin spread over a dish, put an olive in each, and serve with a little mayonnaise. sauce poured over and round the foot of the croutons of fried bread. Ancliovy Omelet.—Cut a slice off a stale tinned loaf, not more than jin. thick, remove the crusts, and cut into pieces lin. square. Fry these lightly in oil or butter. Beat up a dozen eggs into an omelet, and season with pepper, salt, and 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Pour half of this into a small, flat, well-buttered stewpan, and cook one side only; then remove it, set the pieces of bread over it, and upon each piece of bread lay a |in. length of a fillet of Anchovy. Make a second omelet, and lay on the top of all, the side of the omelet that was nearest the fire going uppermost. Set these in an oven between two plates for a few minutes, and serve with a little Spanish sauce. Anchovy Paste.-—Prepared the same as Anchovy Butter, but with a much larger proportion of Anchovy. Anchovy Powder.—This is rather a novelty for a breakfast- table, and, being somewhat troublesome of preparation, is likely to remain so. Pound Anchovy fillets to a paste, and rub this through a fine hair or silk sieve. What you cannot rub through the first time may be poixnded again and again until all passes, except bits of bone or other refuse. Make a dry dough of this Anchovy pulp by working in flour; roll this dough into very thin layers, cut into narrow ribbons, and dry by a gentle heat before a stove. When sufficiently dry it may be powdered in a mortar, passed through a coarser sieve, and bottled ready for use. Sprinkled on bread-and-butter, or hot buttered toast, it makes a capital relish. Anchovy K>elish.—Put a little finely-shred beef-suet into a saucepan, boil it until it is all dissolved, and then strain it into a bowl of boiling water; when it is quite cold, remove the fat, scrape it clean and dry, and put it in paper until wanted for use. Put a dozen or so Anchovies into a basin of milk, and let them steep for two hours, when the bone can easily be removed; wipe them dry, bone and trim them, and pound them in a mortar with a little less than their bulk of the clarified suet. Spread this paste over thin pieces of toast or wafer biscuits, and serve. In this way it is more wholesome than the Anchovy Butter. Anchovy Salad.—(1) Fillet some Anchovies, and shred them lengthwise. Arrange them tastefully upon a small plate, and garnish with groups of chopped hard eggs, chopped parsley, and onions, ornamented with whole capers. Pour salad oil, or oil and vinegar, over the whole, and serve. This is a very favourite dish at the tables of some of the foreign aristocracy, but the following is more in accordance with British notions of a salad: (2) Wash a good lettuce, and dry it thoroughly on a cloth. Split it lengthwise into quarters, and then cut crosswise into fine shreds—the finer the better. Slice very finely some small onions, and chop up a pinch of parsley. Mix thoroughly in a bowl. Then shred lengthwise a dozen fillets of Anchovies, sprinkle them over the salad, and pour over all oil and lemon- juice, beaten togethex-, ixx equal propox-tioxxs. Anchovy Sandwiches.—Empty a bottle of Anchovies into a bowl of water, and wash them thoroughly, chaxxging the water frequently. Put them, when drained and boned, into a mortar with an equal quantity of butter, and pound them