153 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Blackberries—continued. and pour it into a cask. Bottle off in a few months, and use as required. (2) The same ingredients are used as for No. 1, but all the fruit is put into a barrel and left for a year to clear, without the addition of any fining ; it may then be bottled and corked down securely. Imitation Blackberry Brandy.—Dissolve 5 or 6 drops each of oil of cinnamon and oil of cloves in J pint of rec- tified spirit; add this to If pints of German black-cherry juice, and pour into this 6qts. more of rectified spirit. Let this stand for a time, and then add 2£ pints of plain syrup and 2| pints of distilled water, and after filtering there will be produced a liqueur which is certain to be in great winter demand, and useful for many kitchen purposes. Pickled Blackberries.—Put lib. of sugar into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of vinegar, and add 1 teaspoonful each of allspice, cloves, nutmeg, and cinnamon, all finely powdered; place the saucepan on the fire, and boil slowly for a quarter-of-an-hour. Put in lgall. of picked Black- berries, and cook them, without boiling, for ten minutes. Pour the mixture into jars, and it is ready for use. The spices may be dispensed with if they are not liked. BLACKBIRDS.—It is only in very primitive parts of the country that the Merle, as it is sometimes called, finds its way into the kitchen excepting as a living pet; but it is nevertheless considered very good eating in a pie, especially when prepared as follows: Blackbird Pie.—Por this dish the birds should only be used from November to the end of January. Pick and draw the required number of Blackbirds, and stuff them with a mixture made as follows : Put the crumb of a French roll into a basin with a little milk, soak it, put it into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, the yolks of two eggs, and a seasoning of chopped parsley and shallot, grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan over the fire, and stir well until the paste is quite thick ; it is then ready for use. Put a few fried slices of beef at the bottom of a pie-dish, place the stuffed birds on them, intermix a few hard-boiled yolks of eggs, pour over sufficient good gravy to moisten, and cover over the dish with a light crust. Put the pie into a hot oven, bake for an-hour-and-a-quarter, take it out when done, and serve. BLACK BREAD.—See Bread. BLACK BUTTER (Beurre noir).—See Butter. BLACK CAKE—See Cakes. BLACKCAP PUDDING.—See Puddings. BLACKCOCK (Fr. Coq de Bruyere (Heath-cock); Ger. Schwarzwild, or Birkliahn).—This bird (Tetrao tetrix), of the grouse species, is found very plentifully on the moors and mountains of Scotland and northern England; it is also occasionally seen in the mountains and marshy parts of the Continent, and especially in Scandinavia, Russia, and Siberia, where it abounds, and whence many of the birds, mostly cocks, are sent to this country. Its favourite haunts are moors, bogs, and morasses, covered with rank herbage. The male, which generally weighs about 41b., is of a shining rich bluish-black colour, with a conspicuous white bar on the wings below the ends of the great wing-covers ; the outer tail-feathers on each side are elongated and curved outwards. The female, which rarely weighs more than 21b., is of a rust colour, and is commonly known as the “ grey-hen.” The Blackcock is also known as the Heath-fowl, or Black-grouse. It is gregarious, but in winter-time the males and females form separate flocks. After pairing they build nests of a very simple construction on the ground, and lay in each six or eight eggs, which are about 2in. long. The flesh is considered very delicate, and is, therefore, highly esteemed for the table. It is in season from 20th August to 10th December. To Truss a Blackcock.—Pluck and draw tbo bird, wipe it well both inside and out, and chop off its head. Insert a skewer in the first joint of each of the pinions, bringing the Blackcock—continued. middle of the legs close to it, then put skewers through the middle of the legs, and through the body, then two more through the small of the leg and through the sides. The feet should be scalded and picked, and the toes chopped off. It may also be trussed with the head on, which should then be secured under the left wing. It is usual to truss with the head under the wing, for some of our epicures declare that there are some very delicate pickings about the head when opened—the brain, to wit; but the probability is that the head is left on as an assurance to the expectant guest that he is not being imposed upon with a capon—an im- position that some would readily pardon. In carving a Black- cock, do not forget that the two thighs are reckoned the choice morsels of this bird, although the breast is by no means to be despised. Roasted Blackcock.— (1) If the bird is not very young, it is advisable to lard it. In that case, remove the skin of the breast, and lard the flesh with fillets of bacon. Fix the bird on the spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it continually with butter. The Blackcock requires about forty minutes’ cooking, and it should be kept rather underdone. When cooked, put it on a hot dish, garnish with watercress, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. (2) Pluck, draw, and singe off the undergrowth of a young Blackcock, truss it like a fowl, tie a thin slice of fat bacon over the breast, and set to roast before a bright fire, basting with butter occasionally. When the bird is quite done (about fifty minutes), place it upon a dish, remove the strings and trussing skewers, and serve plain, garnished with sprigs of watercress, but with a rich gravy as for roasted fowl. (3) Let the bird hang in the air, head downwards, until quite tender—that is, for a few days if the weather continues cold. Be careful that it does not show symptoms of decay. Pluck, draw, and then truss it; or it may be plucked and drawn before hanging, although some cooks believe that hanging in the feathers is an advantage to the flesh, improv- ing its flavour. Fasten a sheet of bacon-fat over the breast, and put the bird on to a stand in a baking-tin with a piece of butter the size of a fowl’s egg ; salt over slightly and let it roast in a hot oven, basting occasionally. When about half-done, say lialf-an-hour after putting in the oven, pour over it £ pint of sour cream, and finish cooking. It should take rather less than an hour. Dish it up when done, removing all strings and skewers. Add pint of good broth to that which is in the tin, reduce it over the fire or stove, stirring slowly until it becomes quite thick, pass it through a strainer, and serve poured over the bird. (4) After roasting as in No. 2, it is not unusual to cut a large slice of bread, largo enough for the bird to lie on after the crusts are trimmed off; toast it very lightly, dip it into lemon-juice, and lay it in the dripping-pan under the bird a few minutes before serving. Sometimes bread sauce is served with roasted Blackcock. Stewed Blackcock.—This dish is only admissible when the bird is a veritable oldster. Cut up the Blackcock into suit- able pieces, and put them into a frying-pan with a little butter and a sliced clove of garlic, twisting and turning the pieces about with a fork until they are lightly browned. Then remove the pieces from the frying-pan and put them into a stewpan, and set aside whilst you make the following gravy: Pour into the frying-pan 1 teacupful of good meat stock and 2 wineglassfuls of port wine, and a few strips of lemon- peel cut thin; sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and warm up in the pan until quite hot. Then pour the whole through a strainer over the pieces in a stewpan, and put it on the fire, tightly covered, to simmer until well-cooked through and tender. Pile the pieces of meat in the centre of the dish, and pour the gravy round. Garnish with triangular sippets of toast, and serve as hot as you can. BLACK CURRANTS.—See Currants. BLACK-DIVER.—This active little bird of t-lie duck tribe is met with in many parts of the American continent, and is greatly esteemed by native epicures. In colour it is blackish-brown, with bright tints about the bill, neck, and wings. Although not altogether imknown in this country, it very rarely finds its way to British tables;