117 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culimry Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads Beef—continued. raw Beef, a little finely-chopped parsley and lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat up the yolks of two eggs and add to the mixture, to moisten it. Take out small quantities about the size of a large egg, roll them in flour into ball shapes, and hake in a good oven until crisp. A little pounded ham will be a great improve- ment if added to the Beef. Forcemeat Croquettes of Beef and Potatoes.—Cut some thin slices of Beef, mince them, and add some cold mashed potatoes, a little savoury herbs, with pepper and salt to taste. Add two eggs to them and work into a paste. Take Fig. 135. Flat Croquettes oe Beef Arranged over a Dome of Mashed Potatoes. a little of the paste at a time and roll it into halls ; flatten these, put them into a frying-basket, and fry to a rich brown colour. Put them on a dish when done, and arrange them over a pile of mashed potatoes (Fig. 135). Fricandeau of Beef.—Lard a piece of lean Beef with bacon seasoned with pepper, powdered cloves, mace, and allspice. Put it into a stewpan, with 1 pint of broth or Beef-gravy, 1 wineglassful of sherry, a bundle of parsley and sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, and a shallot or two. When the meat is tender, cover it closely, skim the sauce, strain it, and boil until it is reduced to a glaze. Then mask the larded side with the glaze, and serve the fricandeau with tomato sauce. Fricassee of Beef.—Take any piece of Beef from the fore- quarter, such as is generally used for corning, and cook it tender in just water enough to evaporate in cooking. When about half done, put in salt enough to season well, and i teaspoonful of pepper. If the water should not boil away soon enough, strain it off, and let the Beef fry in the saucepan fifteen minutes. This dish is proclaimed to be better than the best roast Beef. To 2 table-spoonfuls of flour add what liquid fat can be collected, and when mixed pour over the hot juice of the meat lying at the bottom of the pan. Serve with apple sauce. Fricassee of Cold Boasted Beef.—Put a pound or so of thin slices of cold roasted Beef into a saucepan with an onion cut into quarters, a handful of chopped parsley, loz. or 2oz. of butter, and sufficient rich stock to moisten; sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and simmer gently on the side of the stove for about fifteen minutes. Now add 1 table- spoonful of vinegar, the yoiks of two eggs, and, if desired, 1 wineglassful of port wine; stir well and quickly. Turn the fricassee out on to a hot dish rubbed with onion or garlic, and serve immediately. Fried Sliced Fillet of Beef.—(1) Prepare six small slices of fillet, fry them for three minutes on each side, then lay them on a dish, and pour over them £ pint of hot Madeira sauce. Serve with six large Beef-forcemeat quenelles. (2) Lay on a dish six small slices of fillet, prepared the same as for No. 1, and pour over them \ pint of hot Madeira sauce. Garnish with cooked macaroni and 2 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, and cover them with a round slice of cooked smoked tongue. (3) Prepare and fry six small fillets, as for No. 1, for three minutes on both sides ; lay them on a dish, adding 1 pint of hot Madeira sauce, with 6 drops of tarragon vinegar and some slices of marrow. Pour the sauce round the dish, dressing the marrow on top of the fillets, and serve. (4) Pare nicely six small slices of fillet, and cook three Beef— continued. minutes as directed for No. 1. Put £ pint of Madeira sauce in a saucepan, with two truffles and six mushrooms cut in slices. Let this cook for ten minutes. Arrange on a hot dish, and pour the sauce round, but not over them; then serve. (5) After procuring 2Jlb. of fine tender fillet of Beef, pare it nicely all round, then cut it into six equal slices ; flatten these slightly and equally with a cutlet-bat, place them on a dish, and season with salt and pepper; put them in a stewpan with £ gill of clarified butter, and cook them for four minutes on each side. Prepare 1 pint of bearnaise sauce, and pour three-quarters of it over a hot dish, reserving the other quarter for further use. Lay six round-shaped pieces of bread (croutons), lightly fried in butter, over the bearnaise sauce; dress the six slices, one on top of each crouton; then arrange six warm artichoke bottoms right in the centre of the slices. Fill up the artichokes with 1 table-spoonful of hot minced vegetables, and evenly divide the remaining ^ pint of hot bearnaise sauce over them. Cut into six even slices one large truffle; place one slice on the top of each, and send to the table as hot as possible. (6) When cooked the same as described for No. 1, pour over the fillets, placed on a dish, J gill of good maitre-d’hotel butter thickened with meat-glaze, and garnish with small new potatoes. Fried Hamburg- Steak served with Russian Sauce. —Select 21b. of lean Beef—the buttock for preference—remove all the fat, and pass it through a chopping-machine; lay it in a bowl, adding a very finely-chopped shallot, two raw eggs, a good pinch of salt, 3 pinch of pepper, and 1 pinch of grated nutmeg. Mix well together, and form the mass into six flat balls the size of small fillets; roll these in breadcrumbs, and fry them in a pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of clarified butter for four minutes, turning them frequently and keeping them underdone. Serve with 3 pint of Russian sauce. Fried Minced Beef-steak.—Chop fine 31b. of Beef, cut from the flank, and having about 12oz. of fat with it; season it well with salt and pepper, and pour over 1 teacupful of water. Press this mince into a square tin, cut it into slices, put these in a frying-pan with butter, and fry until quite done and well browned. Put them on a dish, pour over rich hot gravy, and serve. Any stringy or tough parts of Beef may be used for this. Fried Steak.—(1) Take a thin long-handled frying-pan, put it on the stove, and make it quite hot. Into this put the pieces of steak, previously pounded; but do not put a particle of butter in the frying-pan, nor salt the steak, for that only draws out its juice. Allow the steak to merely glaze over, and then turn it quickly to the other side, turning it several times in this manner until it is done. Four minutes is sufficient for cooking over an ordinary good fire. When done, lay it on a hot dish, butter it, and season with salt, and set a moment in the oven till quite ready to serve. (2) American Style. — Get a tenderloin or porterhouse steak. Do not wash it, but be careful to put it on a clean block, and beat it well, but not into holes, nor so as to look ragged. Sprinkle over pepper and salt, then dredge with flour on both sides. Have ready a hot frying- pan, lay in the steak, and cover closely with an inverted plate if the frying-pan has no lid; or use a flat enamelled stewpan with a lid. The juice of the meat will be sufficient to cook the steak. Turn often, and do not let the pan get hot enough to scorch or make the steak and gravy brown. Before it gets hard, butter liberally, and place on a hot dish; pepper again, and, if preferred, pour over first 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar and 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, and pour the hot gravy over all. Sift pow- dered cracker over, and serve. (3) Lay a good steak in a deep dish, pour over 1 teacupful of vinegar, taken from any pickles, and let it stand one hour. Take a clean frying-pan, throw in 1 table-spoonful of butter, and some of the vinegar from the dish, sufficient to stew the steak. If managed properly, when done it will be imbedded in a thick gravy. Put the steak on a hot plate, cover it, and put before the fire to keep hot. Into the pan in which the steak was cooked put 1 teaspoonful of black pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and