THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 122 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. thickness. Take out the Beef, and sprinkle it with sweet herbs dried and pounded, chopped parsley, and allspice ; roll it lightly and tie it with tape to preserve a good shape ; put it into cold water enough to cover it, with 1 wineglassful of tarragon vinegar and a few vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions. Bring it to the boil very slowly, and let it simmer until it is tender. Then leave it in the stock in which it was boiled, with a heavy weight on it, till cold. Unfasten the tape, and serve garnished with parsley. Glaze all over with a brush. (2) A square piece of the thick flank (Fig. 102, 7) should be cured lightly in a good pickle. Put it into a large saucepan with a bay-leaf, an onion, and a bundle of sweet herbs, and cover with stock. Bring to the boil, and then simmer until per- fectly tender. Remove it, and place it between two flat dishes, with heavy weights on the top. The next day trim it neatly, and glaze. This looks nice, and is improved if when cold it is cut to the size of a deep tin dish, into which sufficient melted aspic jelly has been poured to cover the bottom about -^in. When this is set, place the meat in it, and pour in more jelly to fill the tin. When set and firm, turn out on to its dish to he served. The moat should be found covered with a bright, clear jelly, {in. to 1 in. thick. (3) Cut off a thick piece of the brisket of Beef (Fig. 102, 13) weighing t)lb. or 101b., put it into an earthenware pan, rub it well over with 21b. of salt, and let it stand for a day. Put lib. more of the salt into a basin, add 4oz. of bay-salt, 8oz. of moist sugar, and a little saltpetre and allspice, and rub the Beef well with this mixture for fourteen days or so, turning it over frequently. Take it out, put it into a saucepan of water over a slow fire, and boil for about five hours. A small bunch of sweet herbs, and an onion stuck with a couple of cloves, may be added to improve the flavour. When the meat is done and the bones fall out, take it out, remove the bones, and let it cool a little; put it in a tin ring or shape, with a weight on the top, and when it is quite cold it is ready for use. (4) Cut off about 101b. from the thin flank of Beef (Fig. 102, 8), put it into an earthenware bowl, and rub it well with a mixture of 21b. of salt and 8oz. of moist sugar incorporated with ^oz. of dissolved saltpetre. Let it remain for a week, rubbing and turning it daily; take it out, roll, tie it with broad tape, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for about five hours. When done, pour off the water, add sufficient cold water to cover it, let it remain in this for eight minutes or so, then drain it in a sieve. Put it on a board with a weighted one on top, let it get cold, untie it, and it is ready for use. (5) Remove the bones from a brisket of Beef (Fig. 102, 13), chop it in halves, and rub well with salt and saltpetre, turning and rubbing it frequently for about twelve days. Tie it up tightly in a cloth, put it into a saucepan of water, with a small quantity of beer mixed in with it, and boil for seven hours. When done, take it out, press it between two boards until it is cold, remove the cloth, and serve. This is a good substantial dish for breakfast, and does not cost much to prepare. Boasted Baron of Beef.—A baron of Beef is generally cut from a small Scotch ox, and sometimes includes the two rumps with the two sirloins and an extra rib on each side. It must be trussed precisely as a saddle of mutton. Pass a thin spit through the spinal marrow-bone, then wrap the Beef up in thick paste made with flour and water, and wrap round with paper; set it 3ft. from a brisk fire, pour- ing fat over the paper to prevent its scorching. Twenty minutes afterwards, remove the spit 2ft. farther from the roasting fire; enclose the joint well with the screen, and roast eight or nine hours, keeping it steadily turned by hand. Half-an-hour before it is to be served, take off the paste and paper, and give the Beef a fine golden colour before the fire. A cradle-spit is very often used in this country for cooking a “baron.” Serve on a large dish with Beef-gravy. Boasted Beef.—(1) Cut off most of the flap of the sirloin (Fig. 141), and trim the joint neatly. Have a clear brisk fire well built up. Place the joint close to the fire for the first half- hour, then move it farther off. Baste frequently. When nearly done, sprinkle the joint well over with salt. The time required Beef—continued. varies with the shape of the joint, as well as with its weight. Under average circumstances allow a quarter-of-an- hour to a pound, and a quarter-of-an-hour over; rather more for a very thick joint. For the gravy, take up the meat, pour the fat from the dripping-pan, leaving the brown sedi- ment, pour in some boiling water and salt, stir thoroughly, and strain round the meat. Do not pour the gravy over the joint after it has been finally removed from the fire, because it washes off what should be left on. A thickening of flour may be added, then the gravy must be boiled in the pan over the fire. Garnish with horseradish, and serve horse- radish sauce in a tureen. (2) The sirloin is the best joint for roasting. Plunge the Beef in boiling water and boil for thirty minutes, then put it in the stove-pan ; skim the top of the water in which it has been boiled, and baste the roast, after dredging it with flour, and pepper and salt to taste. Baste frequently, and roast till done. (3) Urbain Dubois paid great court to the process of roasting. He advised that when a piece of Beef is to be roasted on the common spit it should be pierced, transversely or lengthwise, according to its thickness, just above the flat bone which separates the large and the minion fillet (under- cut). The joint should then be supported by two iron skewers, one placed on the top, the other underneath, and bound together. If the Beef can be roasted on a cradle-spit, the operation is simplified; but if no such spit be at hand, the Beef can be roasted in the oven, on a roasting-pan, or else on a large baking-sheet with upturned rim. In order to ensure the success of this operation, the roasting Beef must he placed on a gridiron set on the baking-sheet, but elevated enough to hinder the fat of the baking-sheet reach- ing to the height of the meat. A piece of roasting Beef baked on these conditions, basted frequently and turned now and then, gives excellent results. If the Beef be roasted on the spit, it must be none the less basted repeatedly with the fat of the dripping-pan; but care must be taken to use only the fat, for if a piece of roasting Beef be basted with fat mixed with watery particles the cook runs the risk of spoiling the roast. Fig. 142. Third Cut of Sirloin Trimmed for Roasting. A piece of Beef weighing 81b. or 101b., if roasted in the oven, or on the spit, will require one hour-and-a-half, if the action of the fire be well directed and kept up. Brown meat when roasted (such as Beef and mutton) requires to be kept