THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 203 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d:c., referred to, sec under their special heads. BROGLIO.—One of the fine wines of Tuscany, not altogether unknown in this country. BROILING. — This culinary term is derived from the French bruler—to burn; but as French cooks give to the verb bruler its literal meaning of “ to burn,” and substitute griller for “to broil” or “ grill,” it will be more convenient to treat the process under the head of Grilling. It may be mentioned here that since the introduction of closed stoves, broiling before the fire has almost gone out of date as a culinary process, although for cooking some articles, such as rashers of bacon, it is not satisfactorily superseded. Pot-broiling is described elsewhere. BROSE.—The meaning of this term is not clearly defined, but as it is universally admitted to be a Scotch dish, and prepared by rubbing oatmeal down in water, it is just possible that it may be the past participle of “ to bray,” as in a mortar. However that may be, there are receipts to be met with in which a variety of ground pulse is used. Some of these will be found hereunder. Atliole Brose.—Put 1 table-spoonful of ground oatmeal into a small jug, and stir it about in nearly a tumblerful of cold water. Put 1 table-spoonful of honey into a large bowl, and add by degrees a little of the water off the meal until it is about the thickness of cream and about 1 dessert- spoonful of milk, stirring it well; add next 3 wineglassfuls of whisky toddy, stirring all well together. Turn the Brose into a clean bowl, leaving the grounds and coarse honey at the bottom, put it into glasses, and hand round with oat- meal cakes. A bowl of hot gruel and a glass of Athole Brose taken at bedtime are a specific for a cold. Brose.— Put 2 table-spoonfuls of oatmeal into a basin, add a little salt and a small piece of butter, pour in sufficient boiling water to cover the meal, and stir it well with the shank of a spoon. Do not beat out all the lumps, as they are considered an improvement. Add sufficient sweet milk to taste. Cadger's Brose is the same as Brose, with this exception, that all the lumps are rubbed smooth. Kale Brose,—This is made by putting a handful or two of oatmeal into a basin, and adding a little salt and pepper to taste. Pour on this sufficient boiling green-kale broth to make it nicely thick. Peas Brose.—The best pea-meal only must be used for this. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of it into a basin with a sprinkle of salt to taste, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Put i pint of water in a stewpan on the fire, and when it boils pour in the meal, and stir it with the handle of a spoon until it is of such thickness that a spoon will stand up in it. To be eaten with sweet milk. Scotch. Brose.—Boil a neck of mutton in 2qts. of water for a couple of hours, having previously removed as much of the fat as possible. Skim well, and when done cut off the scrag end, divide it into several pieces, and return it to the broth ; then add two or three sliced carrots, onions, turnips, and celery, a sprig of parsley, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teacupful of split peas, and 6 table-spoonfuls of pearl barley, both of the latter being previously steeped in tepid water. Cut the best end of the neck into chops, exactly as if for frying, put them in soon after the vegetables, and simmer the whole well until tender. In serving there should be a chop for each person. Scotch Fat Brose.—Take an ox or a sheep’s head, or a shin of beef will do, and boil until all the fat is out and floating on the top. Toast some oatmeal before the fire or in the oven, and put 1 teacupful of it, seasoned with a little salt, into a basin; pour over it about ^ pint of the broth, fat and all, stir it quickly as you pour it on, leaving the oatmeal in lumps, as the more there are the better it is considered. BROTH (Fr. Bouillon, Consomme; It. Brodo ; Sp. Brodio, Calclo; Ger. Fleisclibruhe).—This good old Anglo- Saxon name for a brew of meat, from briwan—to brew, brot—brewed, appears to be likely to die out and give place to the more exquisite Consomme; but it is just Broth—con tinued. possible that it may in this country survive the attack made upon it, as our “ soup ” appears to survive the intrusion of “ potage.” But the term “ Broth ” as at present used is somewhat indefinite, being often applied to the mere Fig. 216. Broth-napkin Stretched on Frame. liquor in which meat has been boiled, which the French cook calls “ bouillon ”; and some difficulty appears to be in the way of its distinction, when flavoured, from soup. Perhaps the more convenient definition will be that Broth ranges from simply the water in which meat has Fig. 217. Adaptation of Kitchen Chairs for Stretching Broth- napkin. been boiled to a flavoured consomme, and soup consists of Broth and other things in a more highly finished state of seasoning. Before the introduction of foreign culinary terms, the distinction was readily drawn, because the