150 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£rc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bitters—continued. dose of Bitters is objectionable, we most emphatically deny, and boldly assert tbat it is contrary to all precedent to state that they promote drunkenness. In- deed it seems to me that if all alcoholic drinks were strongly impregnated with Bitters, there would not be quite such a large return upon their consumption made to the revenue of the country.” Bitters prepared wholesale for the market are numerous both in kind and quality, differing from each other in some particulars, but especially in name. Thus we have Angostura, Amaranth, African, Amazon, Danvita, Khoosh, Hop, Orange, Yermouth, and a variety of others, such as Boonekamp, Alter, Schwede, Inglandine, Menschen- freund, and Malakoff. But it is probable that the physiological action of the Bitters, whatever it may be, is much the same in every case, stimulating the coats of the stomach to activity, and thus strengthening and preparing the digestive faculties for coming work, and creating an appetite. An extensive assortment of vegetable Bitters find favour with various manufacturers, amongst which we find calumba, cinchona, cascariUa, cliiretta, chamomiles, gentian, hops, orange-peel, quassia, and wormwood; the five latter taking precedence probably because of their cheapness and ready manipulation. But many other Bitters have been used, such as Buck-bean, 2oz. of which is said to yield as much bitter principle as lib. of hops. The common box-tree is used in Paris, and in some other parts of France, as well as in Germany. The tops of the broom are employed; and this as well as heath has been used from time imme- morial in Norway, Sweden, and the north of Scotland. In England mugwort has been used, and it is well known that the Bitters quassia and gentian are sometimes used in brewing aromatic calamus, while calisaya may also be recognised as belonging to this list. Without venturing to discuss the virtues or evils of taking Bitters at all, we give the following receipts which will be found equal to any of the best Bitters made. Amazon Bitters.—The following receipt is for a very large quantity; but smaller quantities can be made by proportion- ately reducing the amount of each ingredient, 90galls. of plain proof spirit, 3Jlb. of red Peruvian bark, 3 Jib. of calisaya bark, one and one-eighth of a calamus root, 4flb. of orange- peel, 3Joz. of cinnamon, 3Joz. of cloves, 3Joz. of nutmeg, 2oz. of cassia buds, and 611b. of red sanders wood. All these must be bruised and broken up, and then put in the spirit to macerate for fourteen days, stirring two or three times a day. When the spirit is drawn off, it should be coloured with 11 pints of brandy colouring (caramel), to give it a dark red tint. Mix this thoroughly in. Dissolve 301b. of white sugar in 30galls. of water, and stir this in also. Let the mixture rest four or five days, and when it is bright, bottle it off for use. From the above receipt and quantities there will bo obtained 120galls. at 25deg. below proof. Aromatic Bitters.—Grind to a coarse powder 11b. of cardamom- seeds, 2oz. of nutmegs, Jib. grains of paradise, lib. of cinnamon, lib. of cloves, lib. of ginger, lib of bitter orange-peel, 2oz. of lemon-peel, and lib. of bruised gentian-root, and macerate all these for three weeks in 4)galls, of proof spirit. Just before drawing off to filter, stir in a thin syrup made by boiling 101b. of loaf sugar in 4!galls. of water. Bitters for Liqueurs.—When used in liqueurs, Bitters are prepared as follow: (1) Well mix 21b. of powdered gentian-root with lib. of extract of gentian and ljlb. of treacle. (2) Put loz. of lesser cardamom-seeds into a vessel with 4oz. of gentian-root and 2oz. of orange-peel cut into thin pieces, pour over 4 pints of rectified spirit, and let the whole infuse. (3) Add 3qts. of rectified spirit to lqt. of raisin wine, 4oz. of orange-peel, 1 drachm of cochineal, and Jib. each of powdered cardamom-seeds and gentian. Bitters Swizzle.—Pour about a teacupful of cold water into a jar, and add about a wineglassful of crushed ice and a Bitters—continued. wineglass one-third full of orange bitters and the remainder brandy; sweeten with crushed loaf sugar, and beat with a stick until a rich froth appears. Pour it into glasses and serve at once. A well-beaten egg can be added, but is not an improvement. Hamburg Bitters.—Put into a mortar and grind to a coarse powder, 3oz. each of quassia wood, dried orange apples, and gentian-root, 2oz. of agaric, 4oz. of cassia buds, 5oz. of cinnamon, ljoz. of orange-peel, |oz. of cardamom-seeds, and Joz. of grains of Paradise. Turn the mixture into a large bowl, pour over 4Jgalls. of 95 per cent, alcohol mixed up with 5jgalls. of water, and let it macerate. Add 2Joz. of acetic ether, pour the Bitters into bottles, and keep them corked until wanted. When properly mixed and macerated, the Bitters will be of a brown colour. Nonpareil Bitters.—Put into a mortar and grind to a coarse powder, 25 grains each of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg, fifteen cayenne-seeds, Joz. each of bitter and sweet orange- peel, and 2oz. of Peruvian bark. Turn this into a bowl, add 2galls. of 65 per cent, alcohol, and let it infuse for about ten days. Filter into bottles, and use as required. Peruvian Bitters.—Take Jib. of red Peruvian bark, Jib. of bitter orange-peel, 1J drachms each of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, and seventy-five cayenne-pepper seeds. Bruise in a mortar, and then infuse for two or three weeks in 8galls. of proof spirit. Draw off and filter. Spanish. Bitters.— Grind to a coarse powder 5oz. of poly- pody, 6oz. of calamus-root, 8oz. of orris-root, 2Joz. of coriander- seeds, loz. of centaurin, 3oz. of bitter orange-peel, 2oz. of camo- mile-flowers, and macerate with 4’galls, of alcohol (95 p. sp.), adding presently 5Jgalls. of water and ljlb. of sugar. Filter, and colour brown with caramel. Wormwood Bitters.—Put into a vessel 1 drachm of oil of orange, J drachm of oil of caraway, and the same of oil of wormwood, pour in 1 pint of spirits of wine, and mix well. Put into another vessel, -Joz. of almond cake, Joz. each of coriander-seeds and Virginia snake-root all well bruised, and add another pint of spirits of wine. Let both these stand for a fortnight, shaking them frequently ; then strain them into one vessel, add 2Jlb. of sugar dissolved in hot water, and fine with Joz. of alum boiled in 1 teacupful of water. Bottle, and use as required. These Bitters are sometimes called British Vermouth. BLACK BASS.—See Bass. BLACK BEANS.—See Beans. BLACKBERB>IES. — The fruit of the common bramble (Rubus fruticosus) is known by this name, al- though it is not strictly speaking a berry, but a cluster of small fruits, of which each contains its own seed. The Blackberry, and several other kinds of the rasp- berry species, such as the dewberry and cloudberry, are found growing wild in all parts of the country; but their cultivation has recently been strongly advocated, it having been practised in America with considerable success so far as an improvement in the size and flavour of the fruit is concerned. But it is a question for market- gardeners to decide whether the demand for Black- berries in this country would be sufficiently increased by any improvement in the quality of the fruit to render it of importance as an addition to their industry. For culinary purposes Blackberries are not usually very greatly esteemed, as they are astringent in taste; but it must be admitted that when prepared according to any of the following receipts they will be found to render good results. They should be gathered when the sun is upon them. Blackberry Brandy.—(1) In the United States and Canada there is a great demand for this fruit spirit, on account of its astringent medicinal qualities. In England it does not seem to meet with so much favour, although it has been recently introduced and advertised by some enterprising American firms. It is usually prepared thus: Macerate in 5galls. of spirit (a little under proof) Joz. each of cinnamon, cloves, and