THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 135 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Beverages—continued. powdered ginger, and a few thin slices of lemon. Set the howl on the ice, let it remain for fully two hours, and serve. (4) A refreshing drink may be made by mixing milk and whisky, according to taste. (5) Pour 1 pint of boiling water over some tea-leaves, let it stand for five minutes only, pour off the liquor, let it get cold, add 1 wineglassful of brandy, and serve. Winter Drink.—Put a jar containing black currants into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it remain until all the juice is extracted. Strain it into a saucepan, add 8oz. of sugar to each pint of juice, boil up once, and skim well. Let it get cold, add an equal quantity of gin or rum to it, mix well, pour it into a bottle, and use as required. For other Beverages, see special headings. BEYROUT SAUCE.—See Sauces. BEZIN.—A sort of besis prepared with very great care, and of which the barley is ground down to a paste in a mortar. See Besis. BHAHJEES.—An Indian term signifying fried, and usually applied to a concoction for frying vegetables in, composed of mustard-oil, ground turmeric, chillies, and salt. BIESTINGS, or BEASTINGS.—The first milk drawn from the cow after calving. Usually very thick and creamy. Much appreciated in country districts for making puddings and custards. It should be used cautiously, as it is somewhat aperient. BIFFINS.—In cookery these are apples which have been peeled, partly baked, and dried under pressure; but the name is properly “ beaufins,” and belongs to a sort of Norfolk apple (see Apples). The dried fruit may be prepared as follows: Select as many as are required of good cooking apples, peel them, and place them in a slow oven for a few minutes, taking them out to press by placing a board and weights upon them, and returning them to the oven again when cold. This alternate process of baking and pressing is repeated until the Biffins are crushed down to considerably less than half their original thickness. In this condition they can be pre- served for any length of time, and if well dried retain all the flavour of the fresh fruit. BIGARADE.—The French name for the Seville or bitter orange. BIGARADE SAUCE.—See Oranges. BIGARRE, — A French term signifying “ parti- coloured.” Ude applies it to a dish of calf’s head, which has that peculiarity about its culinary prepara- tion. BIGOS.—This _ is a Polish dish, and although not generally known in England, is worthy of notice, espe- cially as it is very savoury, and much esteemed in Germany. Cook 21b. of good sour-crout, drain, and arrange it in layers in an earthern stewpan, alternating each layer with slices of cooked meats, such as venison, mutton, chicken, duck, ham, sausages, or bacon; pour over the meats a little good gravy, cover the stewpan, and keep it in the oven for half-an-hour. Serve hot or cold. BILBERRIES.—These not very tasty berries are known by a variety of names in different parts of the world. They are dubbed, apparently indifferently, Blue- berries, Blaeberries, Whortleberries, Huckleberries, and probably have many other local names with which we are not acquainted. The shrub (Vaccinium myrtUlus) from which the berries are gathered grows wild in North America and Northern Europe. They are chiefly used to make a rich wine. Bilberry Cake.—(1) Mix 1 pint of flour with £ teaspoonful of salt and 2 teaspoonfuls of haking-powder, and pass it two or three times through a sieve. Put a breakfast-cupful of Bil- berries in a little water, wash them well, pick them over, dry Bilberries -continued. them, and sprinkle over with flour. Work 2oz. of warmed butter to a cream, mix in gradually fib. of caster sugar, and beat them well, adding the beaten yolk of an egg and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Pour this into the flour, work it well, add the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth, and, lastly, the Bilberries, taking care not to break them. Put this mixture in a shallow pan, and bake for thirty minutes; or it may be put in muffin-rings, if preferred. Sour milk may be used without the baking-powder, but adding a salt- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda instead. Half flour and half cornflour can be used instead of all flour. (2) Put lqt. of flour into a basin, and mix with it 1 tea- spoonful of salt, 4 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and fib. of moist sugar. Mix these thoroughly, and add sufficient milk or water to make it into a stiffish dough that will not run when dropped from a spoon. Wash and dry 1 pint of Bil- berries, flour them over, and stir them in, taking care not to break them. Butter a shallow pan, and with a large spoon drop the cake into it, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. (3) Bub fib. of butter into lqt. of flour mixed with \ pint of sifted cornflour and 1 teaspoonful each of powdered mace and cinnamon; when quite smooth, stir in six eggs beaten separately and f pint of milk with a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in it; mix thoroughly, and then add lqt. of Bilberries, having previously sifted flour over them. Put in a greased tin, and bake. Bilberry Pie.—Put into a basin If pints of well-picked and cleaned Bilberries, add 2oz. of powdered loaf sugar, and mix well. Line a pie-dish with paste, spread over 1 table-spoonful of apple sauce, place the berries on top, and put a rim of paste round the dish, moistening it with beaten egg. Bake in a moderate oven for fifty minutes, sprinkle over powdered sugar, melt this in the oven, take out the pie, spread 2oz. or 3oz. of sweet jelly over the berries, and serve either hot or cold. Bilberry Tartlets.—Prepare 1 pint of Bilberries, put them into a basin, and mix in 2oz. of powdered loaf sugar. Line six scalloped tart-moulds with |lb. of puff paste, mask them with 3oz. of apple marmalade equally distributed, place the berries over this, dust them over with more powdered sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Take out the tarts, dust the edges with more of the sugar, melt this in the oven for two minutes, take them out again, and let them get cold. Turn them out carefully, cover over with a thin coating of apple jelly, arrange on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Bilberry Wine.—Bemove the stalks and leaves from 2galls. of ripe and dry Bilberries, put them into a large tub, pour over 3galls. of water, or half cider and half water, and add 51b. of sugar. When the liquor has fermented, pour in lqt. of brandy, and add loz. each of powdered ginger and tartar, and a small quantity each of rosemary and lavender leaves. Let the mixture stand for a couple of days, strain it through a fine sieve into a cask, put the bung in lightly, and as soon as the fermenting is over, which can be ascertained by the hissing noise ceasing, bung it down tightly, and bottle in about three months. It should remain for eight or nine months in the bottles before being used, and will keep good for a long time. Boiled Bilberry Pudding1.—Pick over, wash, and dry lqt. of Bilberries, and roll them in flour. Sift together lqt. of flour and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda. Butter a tin pudding-mould, beat i breakfast-cupful of butter and 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar to a cream, beat two eggs to a cream with 1 breakfast-cupful more of the sugar, put the berries, flour, butter, sugar, and eggs into a mixing-bowl, and stir in sufficient sour milk to make a soft dough ; put this dough into the buttered tin mould, close the mould so that no water can penetrate it, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it steadily for three hours; then turn the pudding from the mould, and servo it hot with any good pudding sauce. Tho same pudding is excellent if baked in a buttered dish until the dough is quite done, say for about half-an-hour. Fried Bilberry Cakes.—Sift 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder and 1 saltspoonful of salt into 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour. Carefully pick over lqt. of Bilberries. Beat three eggs for