113 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their S2'ecial heads. Beef—continued. pour over some hot rich gravy, and serve. Garnish with fried potato balls. Chateaubriand of Beef. — Cut off some thick slices from a fillet of Beef, and with a sharp knife slit each one nearly in halves ; put 1 table-spoonful of ox-marrow seasoned with salt and cayenne, and a few strips of onion in the cavity: press the sides together, well brush over with warm butter or oil, and put them on a warm gridiron over a clear fire. When they are done, which will take from ten to fifteen minutes, take them off, put them on a dish, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and serve as hot as possible. Great care must be taken to prevent the marrow from oozing out while cooking, and this may be done by sewing the cut edges together with a small kitchen skewer. Cold Boiled Beef au Gratin. — Cut 1Jlb. of cold boiled Beef into slices about jin. thick, put them into a gratin- pan, and pour over them 1 pint of Italian sauce. Cover with fine bread-raspings, warm in the oven, and brown with a salamander. Cold Boiled Beef Plain-warmed.—Cut up some cold boiled Beef into slices about iin. thick ; put some butter to melt in a frying-pan, place the slices in the pan (avoid their lying one over the other), and sprinkle with salt and pepper. After five minutes’ frying, turn the slices over, and let them fry five minutes longer on the other side; sprinkle again with salt and pepper, take them out, and lay them on a dish ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar to the butter in the pan, boil for a minute, and then pour it over the Beef. Garnish with chopped fried parsley, and serve. Cold Boiled Beef Warmed with Bacon and Potatoes. Take ljlb. of cold Beef, or as much more as may be required, cut it into pieces 1 Jin. square, and remove all dry and fat parts. Select a piece of streaky bacon about ^lb., remove the rind, and cut the bacon in pieces ljin. square; fry, with 1 table- spoonful of butter, in a large stewpan. When it is sufficiently I browned, add lqt. of water, a bunch of herbs, one medium - sized onion, and lib. of potatoes peeled and cut in squares like the Beef. Boil for fifteen minutes. Add the pieces of Beef, and boil gently for ten minutes. When the potatoes are done, take out the herbs. The saltness of the bacon will be appreciated, and more salt may bo added if the taste should so dictate. Serve hot. Cold Boiled Beef Warmed and Served with Italian Sauce.—Cut about ljlb. of cold boiled Beef into slices fin. thick, and warm them in the oven for about fifteen minutes; pour over 1 pint of Italian sauce, and serve. Cold Boiled Beef Warmed and Served with Piquant Sauce.—Cut some cold boiled Beef into slices about fin. thick; set these in a gratin-pan, moisten with 1 teacupful of broth, and put in the oven for fifteen minutes. Pour 1 pint of piquant sauce over the meat, and serve. Cold Boiled Beef Warmed and Served with Tomato Sauce.—Cut about ljlb. of cold boiled Beef into slices fin. thick, and warm them in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Take 1 pint of tomato sauce, pour it over the slices, and serve. Cold Stewed Bibs of Beef with Aspic Jelly.—Trim the first five ribs of Beef (Pig. 132) in a piece, and lard it with fat bacon and ham seasoned with salt and pepper; wrap it up in slices of fat bacon, and tie up to a good shape; tie pack- thread round it also, to preserve it as thick as possible; then put it into an oval stewpan with some trimmings of veal and Beef, J pint of Madeira wine, 1 gill of brandy, 2 ladlefuls of consomm<5, with roots, herbs, and spices as usual. Cover with a buttered paper, boil it four hours very slowly, and leave it to cool in its stock. When nearly cold, take it up, and press it between two stewpan-covers weighted above. When quite cold, trim it, taking care not to detach the bones, which should be trimmed and scraped very white. Cover with glaze, and place it on an entree dish, garnished with chopped aspic ; form on it a light decoration of aspic, and surround it with a fine border of croutons of aspic and vegetables. The artistic taste of the cook can be well dis- played in garnishing this dish with aspic. See Aspic. Collared Beef.—(1) Put a piece of the thin end of the flank of Beef, weighing 6Jib. or 71b., into a bowl, and rub in a pickle made with Goz. of salt, loz. of saltpetre and a little coarse Beef—continued. moist sugar. Let the meat remain in this for ten days, rubbing and turning it over frequently; then take it out, and remove all the bone, skin, and gristle. Dust it over with 3oz. of finely-powdered sweet herbs and a good supply of salt and pepper, roll it up in the same way as a fillet would be, tie it up securely with broad tape, wrap it round with a cloth, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, and boil gently, allowing thirty minutes to each pound of meat. Take it out when done, put it under a heavy weight until cold; then remove the cloth and tape, and it is ready to be served. (2) Take a flank of fresh Beef or other lean piece and put it into a stewpan with popper, salt, allspice, saltpetre, thyme, and sage, and pour over enough broth to cover it. Then roll hard, wind string around it, and boil till done. It must be served cold, cut in slices. (3) The flank is the best piece for collaring, about 141b. to 161b. or so ; cut this square or oblong, and take off the inner skin. Prepare a brine of bay-salt and water strong enough to float an egg, and let the meat lie covered in it for a week. Then take it out, dry it well, and afterwards rub it over thoroughly with finely-powdered saltpetre. Put it back into the original brine and let it remain there for a week longer. Take it out at the expiration of that time, and wipe it completely dry. Now beat up in a mortar loz. of powdered white pepper, ljoz. of grated nutmeg, loz. of mace, loz. of cloves, and four shallots shredded fine, into a paste, which is to be spread evenly and completely over the inner side of the meat. Boll up the Beef as tight as possible, and tie up firmly with tape. It is then ready for smoking or boiling. Fig. 132. First Five Kibs of Beef. Corned Beef.—(1) Select a piece of pickled Beef which has a fair proportion of fat—such as the brisket (Fig. 102, 13) or neck. If very salt, soak it in cold water for half-an-hour. Put it on to boil in fresh cold water, enough to cover it; skim carefully when it begins to boil, and cook slowly, simmer- ing (not boiling) until it is so tender that you can pick it to pieces with a fork. Let the water boil quickly towards the last, and having removed it from the fire, let the Beef stand in the water to cool. Then before getting quite cold lift the meat out of the water and pack it in a pan, or large oblong tin, so that the fibres run lengthwise, arranging the fat amongst the lean so that it will be well marbled. Put a thin board, a trifle smaller than the inside of the pan, over the moat, and pross by putting a heavy weight on the board. When cold, cut in thin slices to servo. (2) Fifty pounds of meat will require 4Jlb. of salt, ljlb. of brown sugar, ljlb. of saltpetre, and lqt. of molasses or dark brown sugar. Mix theso well, boil, and skim; when milkwarm, pour it over the meat with a ladle. The Beef must be soaked in clear water and wiped dry before putting in the brine. It will be ready for use in a few weeks. Should the brine mould, skim and boil again. Keep the meat under the brine. (3) Having a quarter of Beef cut into proper sizes and shapes for nice roasting pieces, put it in a barrel of weak brine, and lot it remain four days. Then make a brine that Q & R