158 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, de., referred to, see under their special heads. Bloaters—continued. enough to soften and amalgamate the paste, a sprinkle of cayenne pepper, mixed spice—and salt, if baked in water. Mix well together, and then nearly fill pots with it, covering the paste with melted salt butter, or mutton kidney-suet. Bloaters a la Sefton.—Take the flesh of three Bloaters, soak them thoroughly, take out, and dry. Then remove the flesh from the bones in fillets, pound in a mortar, and mix in Jib of grated Parmesan cheese; season with pepper, and shape into spindle-like pieces about 2in. long and |in. through; egg-and-breadcrumb them, fry in hot fat, and serve on a folded napkin. For a breakfast relish, these are deli- cious. Garn'sh the dish with parsley and thin slices of lemon. Broiled Bloaters.— Scrape the required number of Bloaters, wipe them dry on a cloth, and split them down the belly from head to tail. Put them flat upon a buttered gridiron over a clear fire, and broil for about six minutes, turning them so as to cook both sides. When done, put them on a dish, with a little butter over them, and serve. Pickled Bloaters.—Wash a dozen or so Bloaters, dry them on a cloth, put them into a basin, pour over sufficient milk to cover them, and let them remain for a day. Take them out, drain, put them into a deep dish, and add 2oz. of capers, twelve cloves, a dozen-and-a-half peppercorns, four bay-leaves, half-a-dozen slices of lemon and onion, and sufficient oil and vinegar in equal quantities to cover them. Cover them over with a buttered paper, and bake in an oven. Let them remain in the dish for a day or so, and they are then ready for use. Toasted Bloaters.—(1) Open the fish with a sharp knife along the belly, and flatten them out, but do not take out the backbone. Toast on a gridiron, exposing the skin-side to the fire. All they require is to be a little more than well warmed through. (2) To have Bloaters toasted to perfection, they should not be split open, says an acknowledged good cook. Let them be thoroughly cleansed, then make a slight cut across the back of the head, and twist it off with the fingers and thumb, and the internals will draw away with it. Hold the Bloater under a tap and let the water rush through it, then wipe it quite dry, and put it on a gridiron over a slow fire; turn it frequently until it begins to smoke, and then it is done. BLOND (Fr. for, literally, “ fair ” — hence, light in colour).—It is used by cooks as applied to stock made from white meats, such as from veal—blond de veau; or the pale stock of lamb—blond d’agneau; chicken stock— blond de volaille. Sauce blonde is a white or cream- coloured sauce made with flour and butter, answering to our “ melted butter.” BLOND DE VEAU—See Teal. BLUEBERRIES.—See Bilberries. BLUEFISH (Temnodon saltator). — The coasts of America are the most favoured resorts of this fine table fish. It is also met with along the coasts of Europe, where it makes its presence felt by the voracity with which it preys upon mackerel and other fish. In some parts of the world it is known as the “horse-mackerel.” The skin is blue, and the flesh, when cooked, partakes Fig. 172. Bluefish. also of a lightly bluish tint, which makes it very tempting in appearance. It is sometimes caught weighing as much as 101b., but the average size would be from 51b. to 71b. In the spring and summer it is found most plentiful and in greatest perfection (see Fig. 172). The mode of cooking, as in the case of all other fish, depends upon the fancy of the cook; by some it is broiled whole, by others boiled in court-bouillon after being divided into slices, but baking appears to be the Bluefish.—continued. method most favoured. Fillets may also be cut from the sides and tossed in butter, and served garnished with crayfish, prawns, and lobster coral. The following is a good substantial mode of cooking the fish whole: Baked Bluefish..—(1) The larger the fish, the better for this mode of cooking. Scrape off the scales, clean the inside away by opening the throat, but do not cut the belly open further than is absolutely necessary to thoroughly clean it out. Chop off the fins and shorten the tail, and then thrust a sharp-pointed knife into the backbone so as to sever it in such a manner that slices of fish can be cut off to serve. Wipe out the inside with a dry cloth, and prepare the follow- ing stuffing to put in it: Finely crumble about lib. of bread (half a half-quartern loaf), and mix with it 1 teaspoonful each of powdered dried thyme and savory, also \ teaspoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of white pepper. Have ready finely minced, 1 teacupful of beef or veal suet, and mix all together in a basin with 1 teacupful of lukewarm water and a beaten egg. Make into a stiff paste, and stuff the belly of the fish with it, taking care to sew it up carefully and closely, and lay it on its belly in a baking-dish which is large enough to hold it quite. Put three or four pieces of butter as large as walnuts round about the fish, and pour into the bottom of the dish £ pint of court-bouillon (if you have any), water, or weak broth, and half a finely-minced onion. Bake until tender but not falling (half to three-quarters of an hour), basting frequently after the first ten minutes. Remove to a dish by means of two flat slices, and lay care- fully on the dish without breaking. That done, add salt and plenty of pepper to the stock in the baking-pan, stir up thoroughly over a stove, and strain into a sauce-tureen to serve with the fish. The dish may be garnished with an ornamental paper or folded napkin, or the fish may be laid upon a bed of well-curled parsley neatly laid to receive it, and this parsley again may be garnished with crayfish, prawns, new potatoes, and boiled mushroom heads. The mushrooms should be boiled in the gravy. When the parsley is used, it must be warmed with the dish preparatory to receiving the fish. (2) Scale and score 21b. of Bluefish, and place it on a well- buttered baking-dish, moistening with 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor and | wineglassful of white wine. Season with § pinch of salt and pinch of pepper, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderately hot oven for fifteen minutes Take it out when done, and lay it on a dish. Put the liquor into a stewpan, add 3 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, ^oz. of finely-minced, cooked, smoked ox-tongue, and boil for two minutes longer; turn the whole over the fish when serving. Garnish with six small cooked crayfish. Baked Bluefish a l’ltalienne.—Score and scale 21b. of Bluefish, and place it in a buttered pan, with I wineglassful of white wine, 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor, half of a very finely-chopped onion, and six chopped mushrooms; season with 1 pinch of salt and I pinch of pepper. Cover tho fish with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes; take it out when done, and lay it on a dish. Put the liquor into a stewpan, adding 1 gill of Spanish sauce, with 1 wineglassful of white wine, and reduce for two minutes. Pour this over the fish, with 1 pinch of finely-chopped parsley, and serve with six heart-shaped croutons of fried bread. Baked Bluefisli a la Venetienne.—Prepare the fish as for Baked Bluefish a l’Italienne, adding to it one tomato cut in pieces, I pint of Spanish sauce, and six whole mushrooms. Sprinkle lightly with breadcrumbs, throw over all a few drops of clarified butter, and put it in the oven for eight minutes. Serve with i pinch of chopped parsley. Stuffed and Baked Bluefisli.—Scale and clean a Bluefish, cut off the fins, and wipe it dry on a cloth. Stuff it with bread-stuffing, sew it up, put it into a baking-dish with a slice of pickled pork, a little butter or dripping, two or three pieces of onion, salt to taste, and sufficient water to keep the pan from burning. Put the fish into the oven and bake for forty-five minutes, basting it frequently. Take it out carefully when done, put it in a dish, strain the liquor over it, and serve. To facilitate the carving, before the fish is stuffed drive the point of a knife through the bone at the required intervals, or where the fish will be cut.