97 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. these times, owing probably to the establishment of other foreign refreshment-houses of all descriptions; and something perhaps is due to the quality of the “h la mode Beef” sold at those eating-houses which elected to cozen the title. They provided a cheap dish of warmed-up salt Beef, covered with a thick brown gravy of so poor a character as not to merit the dignified name of “sauce.” A la mode Beef, we are told, should be highly flavoured. A clove of garlic is therefore sometimes added, although it is not essential. The following receipts are by different cooks of great repute, and will therefore be found vastly superior to the “ a la mode Beef ” of many of the shops : (1) Take 41b. to 61b. of the under-part of a round of Beef. Wipe, and trim off the edges, put it in a deep earthen dish, and pour over it spiced vinegar. This is made by boiling for five minutes 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar with one onion chopped fine, 3 teaspoonfuls of salt, and \ teaspoonful each of mustard, pepper, cloves, and allspice. Let the meat stand in this for several hours, turning it often. Then dress it with ten or twelve strips of salt pork, cut -Jin. square and as long as the meat is thick, inserting these strips with a large larding-needle, or by boring a hole in the meat with a carving-steel; or large incisions may be made, and stuffed with breadcrumbs highly seasoned with salt, pepper, onions, thyme, marjoram, &c., moistened with hot water, 1 table- spoonful of butter, and one well-beaten egg. Tie the Beef into a good shape with a narrow strip of cotton cloth, in such a way as to keep in the stuffing, and dredge with flour. Cut up fine two onions, half a carrot, and half a turnip, fry them in fat or dripping until brown, and put them in the stewpan. Then brown the meat all over in the same fat, and put it on a trivet in the pan. Half cover with boiling water, and add 1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs, tied in a small muslin bag. Cover closely, and simmer for four hours, or Fig. 103. Beef-fork. until tender. Take it up carefully with a Beef-fork (Fig. 103), remove the strings, and put the Beef on a large dish. Skim off the fat from the gravy, add more seasoning, and thicken with flour previously wetted and worked smooth in a little cold water; boil up for eight or ten minutes, and strain it over the meat. Garnish with potato balls and small onions. (2) For 101b. of Beef, take four onions chopped up, 1 table- spoonful of allspice, 1 teaspoonful of mace, with red pepper and salt to taste. Macerate these in 1 pint of strong vinegar. Rub the Beef twice daily in this mixture, for three or four days; then cook in a covered pan in the oven with all these ingredients in the pan. The mouse-piece (Fig. 102, 5) is generally the part used for this purpose. Fig. 104. Round of Beef. (3) Take the bone from a round of fresh Beef (Fig. 104), and beat the meat all over slightly to make it tender. Grate a loaf of bread into fine crumbs, and mix with equal quanti- ties of thyme and parsley dried and rubbed fine, 1 onion chopped small, the marrow from the bone, Jib. of minced Beef—continued. suet, with pepper and salt, cloves and nutmeg, to taste. Mix these with three eggs well beaten, and fill the place from whence the bone was removed. What is left may be rubbed all over the round. Tie up with tape to keep in shape. Cover a pan with slices of bacon, put the Beef upon them, and lay pieces of butter to the extent of Jib. over the meat. Pour in the pan round the meat 1 pint of water, cover closely, and stew gently for six hours. When done quite tender, take out the Beef, skim the fat from the gravy, strain this into a saucepan, set it on the stove, and stir into it 1 teacupful of port wine. Let it come to a boil, and send to the table in a sauce-tureen. Garnish the dish with vegetables and whites of eggs boiled hard and chopped fine. Fig. 105 Rump of Beef. (4) Take a round or a rump of Beef (Fig. 105), and remove the bone, gristle, and all the tough pieces about the edges. Fill the cavities from which the bone is taken with suet and fat salt pork. Press this so as to make it perfectly round, and tie up in a strong piece of cloth to hold it firmly in shape. The cloth must be the same width as the joint is thick, so as to leave the top and bottom open. With a larding-needle fill this thickly with strips of fat pork, running through from top to bottom, and about lin. apart each way; set this in a baking-pan, and pour over 1 teacupful of boiling water mixed with 1 tea- cupful of boiling vinegar; and add 1 full table-spoonful of moist sugar and a bunch of sweet herbs. Sprinkle over the Beef liberally with salt and black pepper; chop up a small onion very fine, and lay over the top of it; and simmer in an oven for two or three hours, basting frequently, and keeping an inverted tin plate over the Beef, except when basting. If the gravy stews down low, add stock or broth of any kind. Turn the meat over, and let the top be at the bottom. When it is done and tender, take out the meat, and put it on a hot dish. Skim the fat from the gravy, and pour over 2 table-spoonfuls of celery vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls of pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of wet mustard, and 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly. Put the meat back, and simmer in the oven for two hours longer, frequently basting, that it may be soft and seasoned through and through. Take the Beef from the pan, and remove the cloth; place on a large flat dish, pour over the gravy, and over this again 1 teacupful of good mushroom ketchup. Sift finely- powdered baked breadcrumbs over the top, and garnish with grated or scraped horseradish and parsley. (5) Take any fleshy piece of Beef (say 51b. or 61b. weight), and remove the bone; lard it all over with unsmoked fat bacon, and dust it well with finely-minced parsley and chives, salt, ground pepper, and mixed spices. Take a saucepan, into which put 1 teacupful of white wine (good cider will do well as a substitute), Jib. of bacon cut into small dice, six shallots minced fine, two dozen small onions whole, two carrots sliced, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, and a little salt. Lay the Beef upon these ingredients, cover the stew- pan close, and put it over a slow fire. Make it simmer gently for five or six hours, and then serve, with all its accompaniments and seasonings poured over. 0 4P