210 TIIE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinanj Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Buns —continued. work in 1 teacupful of washed currants, 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg or ground cinnamon, and f teacupful of butter; then let it rise again. When light, roll it out, shape into small cakes, and put these on a baking-sheet, with a little space between them. Beat the white of egg with some sugar, and glaze the Buns with it. These Buns can be made into Hot Cross Buns by marking across with the point of a knife. Bun Pudding.—Put in a large pio-dish as many stale Buns as it will hold without crowding. Make a custard with five eggs to each quart of milk, with sugar and flavouring to taste. Pour this over the Buns, and let them soak in it from one-and-a-half to two hours. When the Buns have soaked up all the custard, bake in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a- half. Cheap Buns.—Mix with lib. of light bread dough 2oz. of sugar, 2oz. of butter, and a little powdered cinnamon, and let this stand one hour; then knead it well till the dough is full of bubbles. Three hours after, knead again, shape into round balls, put these on a buttered baking-sheet a short distance apart from each other, cover with a cloth, and let them rise an hour before putting them into the oven. Bake about twenty minutes ; then brush over the tops with syrup, and sift a little powdered sugar over them. Chelsea Buns.— Boll out 1 quartern of light bread dough into a sheet about fin. thick, spread about 6oz. of butter over the top, and fold and roll it three or four times; roll out again, sift some caster sugar over it, sprinkle over a little water, cut in strips fin. wide, and roll these into coils about 2in. in diameter. Butter a baking-sheet, put the coils on it a short distance from each other, cover with a cloth, and let them rise in a warm place. Bake in a moderate oven, and when done sift some caster sugar over them. Chester Buns.—Bub fib. of butter into 21b. of white flour in which 1 table-spoonful of sugar and 1 pinch of salt have been previously mixed. Beat an egg in f pint of warm milk, and add to it f wineglassful of yeast; knead together, and set it in a warm place to rise. When light, divide into several parts, and shape them round. Butter a baking-sheet, put them on, cover with a cloth, and let them stand for a little time to rise. Bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Christmas Buns.—Bub fib. of fresh butter into 21b. of flour and 1 pinch of salt; mix 2 table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast in a little warm water; make into a stiff dough, and knead until light. Take 21b. of stoned raisins, lflb. of currants washed and dried, fib. mixed candied peel, sliced, and foz. of blanched almonds, mince all together, and work in with two-thirds of the paste; add loz. of white pepper, loz. of powdered cinnamon, and loz. of ground ginger, working well in. Shape into a cylindrical form. Take the remainder of the paste, encase the Bun in it, fasten the edges together by first damping them, pierce some holes in the top, run a skewer through two or three times, wrap some thick well- floured paper round the Bun, tie it round, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. Several of these are usually made at the same time. Cinnamon Buns.—Warm lqt. of milk, put in it 6oz. of sugar, 2oz. of German yeast, 6oz. of flour, and two eggs; mix together, put in a basin in a warm placo to sponge, covering it over with a cloth. When it has sponged and fallen again, mix with it fib. more sugar, foz. of mixed spice, lib. of butter, a little powdered cinnamon, and 41b. of flour, less the 6oz. you have used for the sponge. When you have worked it into a soft dough in the sponge, put it in a warm place for half-an-hour or so to prove. Divide it into several pieces, and shape into balls with the hands. Butter some baking-sheets, place them on a fow inches apart from each other, set them to rise for a few minutes, brush over the tops with milk, and set them to rise again. Bake in a hot oven, and when done brush the tops again with milk. Common German Buns for Wholesale Use. -These are made as for German Buns, only using 41b. of flour, 2oz. of cream of tartar, loz. of bicarbonate of soda, If lb. of moist sugar, f-lb. of lard, a little turmeric, and churned milk to form a dough. Currant Buns.—Bub 2oz. of butter into lib. of flour; when quite worked in, dissolve foz. of German yeast and foz. of Buns—continued. baking-powder in f pint of warm milk, and mix with it also two eggs well beaten and 2oz. of caster sugar. When well mixed, gather up the paste, and put into a basin in a warm place to rise. Half-an-hour after, mix with the dough 2oz. of currants well washed and dried, break the dough on a floured slab into about nine parts, and shape into balls. Butter a baking-sheet, place the balls upon it, pressing lightly with the hand to make them adhere, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake in a hot oven. See Fig. 221. Devonshire Buns.—Mix with lib. of fine white flour, f tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, f teaspoonful of tartaric acid, thoroughly mixed by sifting, and then work in 2oz. of butter ; add 2oz. of caster sugar, fib. of currants, and a few caraway- seeds. Beat f pint of Devonshire cream and one egg together, if too thick adding a little warm water, and mix with the others, working together with a knife. Have some buttered baking-sheets ready, take up as much dough as you can on a fork, and drop it on the sheet. Bake in a hot oven. Enfield Buns.—Into lflb. of fine flour mix foz. of baking- powder, rub in fib. of butter, and add fib. of cleaned dry currants, fib. of caster sugar, and one egg well beaten in f pint of milk. Mako into a dough and put into tins, sift a little caster sugar over the tops, and bake in a hot oven. Geneva Buns.—Make a sponge with lib. of flour, 2oz. of butter, 1 pinch of salt, and 1 dessert-spoonful of yeast dis- solved in f pint of milk, and let it rise for one hour; after- wards knead it, add an egg well beaten in a little warm milk, a little chopped candied peel, a little sugar, and a few currants. Fig. 225. Geneva Buns. Put tho bowl containing this, with a cloth over the top, in a warm place to rise. In half-an-hour take the dough, shape in rolls, put on a buttered baking-sheet, glaze tho tops with egg, and bake for about twenty minutes in a hot oven. Seo Fig. 225. German Buns.—Sift 41b. of flour on to a table and work in 2oz. of cream of tartar and loz. of bicarbonato of soda; make a cavity in tho centre, put in 12oz. of butter and lflb. of sugar, work them to a cream, and add four eggs and sufficient milk, flavoured with 10 drops of essence of lemon, to make a dough. Cut this into shapes, put on buttered tins, keeping them about lin. apart, brush over with egg, dust over with caster sugar, and bake them in a moderate oven. Guernsey Buns. — Bub fib. of butter into lib. of flour, mix into a dough with 1 pinch of salt, f teacupful of fresh yeast, and a little warm milk, cover it, and set it in a warm place to rise. Shape into Buns, and put these on buttered baking- tins, leaving a short space between each. After they have risen to nearly double their original size, bake in a hot oven.