58 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fee., referred to, see under their special heads. Attelettes—continued. Our Plate represents a particularly artistic variety of Attelettes in all the splendour of their natural colourings; they present examples of combination which ingenious cooks will have no difficulty in imitating, or varying according to taste and convenience. They are arranged to suit either hot or cold dishes, savoury or sweet; and great care should he taken to insure their adding to the appetising qualities of the dish they are used to ornament, and every bit of them, except the skewer, should be edible, although rarely eaten at table. When Attelettes are used for cold dishes, especially such as spiced or pressed meats, galantines, and aspics, it is usual to string small ornamental cuttings of vege- tables, &c., and cover them with a column of jelly. This is effected by means of moulds specially constructed for the purpose (Fig. 58), and the mode of operation is as follows: Thread the ornaments carefully upon the skewer to a convenient distance from the top, and then plunge Fig. 58. Attelette Moulds. the skewer-shaft through the hole in the bottom of the mould. Tie round the skewer, below the'mould, a piece of tape or string, so as to support the mould in its appointed place, and then closely bung up the bottom aperture with stiff flour-and-water paste, so that the liquid jelly to be used cannot leak through. The orna- ments on the Attelettes should be of such dimensions that they will pass readily into the mould without touching the sides. Next, pass the skewer shafts through holes in a convenient frame, so that they can be packed round with pounded ice, and kept perfectly upright. To fill the moulds, use very bright, clear jelly, quite liquid, and as cool as it is possible to have it; and when this has set firm, remove the string and paste from beneath the mould, dip the mould quickly into warm water, and out again. When the pin is removed the mould will come away, leaving the jelly shape perfect. These Attelettes must be kept in a cold place, as warmth would make the jelly run. Attelettes—continued. For hot dishes, a great variety of Attelettes may be formed, all the ingredients being cooked as for eating, but they need not be hot themselves. A thin coating of meat glaze brushed over them makes them very bright, and adds very considerably to their ornamental appearance. Sweet jelly may be used, with crystallised fruits, and fruit pastes cut into shapes. Sugar glazing brushed over such ornaments as fresh fruits will give them extra brilliancy. The mode of preparing the dif- ferent articles used will be found described under their own headings. Description of Plate. The preparation of decorative Attelettes opens up a large field for the display of artistic taste and culinary skill. The orna- mental design crowning the Attelette may not be at all times subject to the cook’s selection, nor the materials at his disposal just such as ho would desire for any particular purpose; but as very pretty arrangements can be made out of such simple articles as carrots, turnips, mushrooms, and coloured glaze, which are to be found amongst the usual kitchen stock, even though cocks’ combs, truffles, prawns, and crayfish are un- attainable, a really ingenious cook will never be at a loss for an Attelette. The combinations depicted on the coloured plate are examples of what can be done in this way, and there- fore form a series of suggestions for the exercise of the cook’s skill. No. 1. A combination of truffles, button mushrooms, and crayfish. No. 2. Truffles, cocks’ combs, and button mushrooms. The cock ornamenting the crown of the Attelette makes this a good addition to capons, poultry, and other birds. May be either hot or cold. No. 3. Truffles, prawns, or mushrooms. No. 4. This is compounded of green peas, carrot rings, bar- berries, and mushrooms with aspic jelly. The crown of the Attelette forms a particularly suitable ornament for a hunting luncheon. No. 5. Crystallised fruits, preserved violets, and cherries, with sweet jelly. No. C. This gives an excellent opportunity for displaying the skilful use of a small knife. The combination is small carrots and turnips cut out of large ones, parsley, truffles, and mushrooms. No. 7. Rings of carrot with peas in between, crayfish and truffles, and set in aspic jelly. No. 8. Rings of green peas, barberries in the centre, truffles on slices of carrot in savoury jelly. Note.—The mode of preparing each of the different ingre- dients used for Attelettes, will be found described under their particular headings. ATTEREAU(X) —The meaning of this term is some- what obscure. It was formerly spelt “Hatereau,” taking its origin fx-om hate, haste; but here a strange confusion seems to have taken place amongst French etymologists, for the word “haste” they conceived to be derived from the Latin word hasta, a spear or javelin. Hence the meaning of Attereaux may apply to those dishes which can be prepared “in haste,” or to the practice of spearing the dainty scraps on small skewers. Hatelet (see Attelettes) may have some such confused origin; but Time, the great reducer, and his confrere Custom have brought these terms into general use spelt as we have them here. Many tasty little dishes are to be found amongst the Attereaux receipts of experienced cooks, and from amongst several we have selected the subjoined, in the hope that this style of quickly-prepared supper titbits may soon come into fashion again. Soyer used them and styled them Aiguillettes—“ little needles ”—evidently referring to the spear, or skewer, and not to “haste.” In any case, the confounding of “spear,” or “javelin,” with “ haste ” is suggestive.