39 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &‘C., referred to, see under their special heads. Apples—continued. not touching, upon a layer of sand, coyer oyer level with more sand, and repeat these layers until the receptacle is full. “ The singular advantages,” says an authority, “of this mode of treat- ment are these: Firstly, the sand keeps the Apples from the air, to do which is essential to their preservation ; secondly, the sand checks the evaporation of the Apples, thus preserving them in their full flavour. At the same time, any moisture yielded by the Apples (and some there will be) is absorbed by the sand, so that the Apples are kept dry, and all mustiness is prevented.” It is a good plan to cover the casks or boxes with a nailed-down lid. Preserved Apples.—Core, pare, and slice some Pippins, and put to each pound of the Apples |lb. of preserving sugar, and to every 81b. thus sweetened lqt. of water, a few cloves, and the thin rind and juice of a lemon. Stew this till the Apples go clear, and put into wide-mouthed bottles or jars for use in winter. Eaten with cream, it is very good. Preserved Pippins. — Boil the rind of an orange till tender, then lay it in cold water for three days. Select two dozen nice Golden Pippins, peel six of them, boil to a strong jelly, and strain it several times through a jelly-bag till quite clear. Put 31b. of loaf sugar in a preserving-pan, pour in 1J pints of water, and boil it. Peel and core the remaining Pippins, and put them in with the syrup when boiling; add the orange-rind cut in long, thin strips, boil fast till the sugar is thick and will almost candy; then put in the Pippin Jelly and boil it fast till the jelly is clear and squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Move the pan off the fire, and leave the contents till cool. Put the Pippins, syrup, and orange-peel into glass jars, and tie them down. Spiced Apples.—This is a variety of what has previously been described as Apple Pickle. Boil together 81b. of pared and cored Apples, 41b. of loaf sugar, lqt. of vinegar, loz. of stick cinnamon, and Joz. of cloves. When the Apples are tender, but not broken, take them out and put them (whole) into earthen- ware jars. Reduce the syrup to three-quarters by boiling, and pour it over the Apples in the jars. Tie down with bladder for keeping. Two or three Spiced Apples served on a glass dish are a nice addition to the dinner-table. Stewed Apples.—It is usual to make a mash of Apples when stewing them ; but this destroys the great beauty they display when boiled nearly transparent, and yet served whole. They are, in this latter state, capable of unlimited manipulation in the way of ornamentation. Some care is necessary in the selection of Apples for stewing to avoid those which “ fall ” easily. The cores must be removed before peeling, and the Apples then put into sufficient water and sugar to cover them. A little spinach-green is recommended to give them a nice colour. When the Apples are transparent but not yet broken, they may be lifted out carefully with a strainer and placed on a glass dish. The centres may be filled with red jelly, and the tops masked with apricot or orange marmalade. The sweet water they were boiled in should be reduced by simmering until it is quite syrupy; it may then be coloured with a little cochineal, flavoured with lemon, and poured round in the dish. Stewed Apples and Rice.—Pare and core a dozen or so large Russet Apples, put them in a saucepan with sufficient syrup to cover them, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until they are done and quite tender. Clean and blanch lib. of rice, put it into a saucepan with a little milk, sugar, and salt to taste, set the saucepan on the fire, and as the milk is absorbed pour in a little more ; continue in this way until the rice is quite cooked and firm, and all the milk absorbed. Turn it out on to a dish, put the Apples on it, fill up the spaces between them with some of the rice, and place it in the oven for a few minutes to acquire a light golden colour. Take it out, and serve. Stewed Dried Apples.—Put the required quantity of dried Apples into a bowl of cold water, and let them steep for several hours. Take them out, put into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, add a little lemon-juice, cover over the pan, set it on the fire, and stew until nearly all the water is dried up or evaporated. Turn the Apples out, and they are ready, and can be used for tarts, pies, &c. Suedoise of Apples.—Make a marmalade of Apples as stiff as possible. Then take small pieces of Apples cut into “ corks ” Apples—continued. by a vegetable tube-cutter, stain them of different colours by steeping in a little syrup coloured with carmine, saffron, &c., and just boil up once. Let the Apples cool in the coloured syrups, so that the colour may spread equally over them. To dish these, first spread some Apple Marmalade over the middle of the dish, and then arrange the coloured corks upright symmetrically, viz., white, red, yellow, and so on. Make the second layer of corks smaller, and the third still smaller. The top may be decorated with crystallised cherries, greengages, angelica, &c. Cover the Suedoise over with firm Apple Jelly, and put it into an ice-chamber to cool. This dish is capable of any amount of extension and variation, both as to arrangement of colours, ornamentation, and flavourings. Soyer says of this dish: “ These very grotesque entremets were never favourites of mine; any kind of ornament, such as cascades, ruins, arches, &c., may be made from them, and ornamented with various fruits; but they look very heavy, and from the Apples being so much boiled and reduced, become very unpalatable, they being nothing more than Apples boiled in syrup to a very firm marmalade.” Soyer’s opinion on this subject is worthy of all respect. Sugar-Iced Apples.—Pare and core a dozen fine, firm Apples, leaving them whole. Put them into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, and stew until the Apples can be pierced with a straw. Remove them from the water, and set in a dish to cool. Fill the centres with currant or some other jelly, and ice over each with lemon-flavoured sugar-icing. These are excellent with rich cream or custard. Surprise Apples.— Pare and core eight or ten Apples (Reinette Apples for preference), and put them on an equal number of round flats of puff or short paste. Brush them over with butter, sprinkle them with caster sugar, and fill the cavities where the cores were cut out—some with pear preserve or marmalade, and others with plum, apricot, or any other kind of jam or preserve. Damp the edges of the paste and fold it over the Apples, securely fastening it at the top. Put them on a well-buttered baking-sheet at a little distance from one another, and bake them in a moderate oven until quite done. A few minutes before serving, dust them over with caster sugar, glaze in the oven, put on a dish, and serve. The edges of the crust should be soldered together by means of a narrow strip of the paste, as in this way it gives a neater appearance. Vol-au-Vent of Apples.—Take sixteen good cooking Apples, cut them into quarters, peel and core them, put them in a stew- pan with the rind of a lemon pared very thin and six cloves, nearly cover them with water, and add 1 teaspoonful of coarsely-powdered sugar. Stew until the Apples are done through, strain them, and pick out a few of the best-looking quarters and put aside. Boil down the remainder in the stewpan to a rather stiff consistency, having previously stirred in 2 table-spoonfuls of apricot jam. Next roll out a piece of best puff paste about lin. thick, and with a bold, ornamental cutter stamp out a piece about Tin. or 8in. long and 3in. or 4in. wide, and with a smaller cutter, the same shape as the larger, stamp the top about half-way through. Put on a greased baking-sheet and bake in a moderately-heated oven. When this paste is nicely done, let it get cold. Then remove the paste at the top where the inner stamp has been, so as to leave a case, into which the selected quarters are to be put, with some of the stew, well reduced by simmering. With a little ingenuity the quarters may be piled up very neatly, and the top flattened, or slightly hollowed, and then, just before sending to table, some good whipped cream may be put on the top, with some chopped pistachio kernels sprinkled over it. Serve on a fancy dish-paper or nicely-folded napkin. Note.—A great number of receipts for preparing Apples crowd before us; but the selection made lias been governed by variety, leaving something, if further should be required, to the ingenuity of the cook. APRICOTS (Fr. Abricots; Ger. Aprikosen; Hal. Albicocche; Sp. Albaricoques).—In old English works we find this word written Apricock or Abricock, which, according to the name in some of the Continental languages, appears to be nearer the correct way of spelling than our more modern word. The fruit is said to have been introduced into this country from France in the