162 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Boar—continued. Put the ham to soak in either of the pickles prescribed for Boar’s Head, and let it remain in it for eight or ten days ; then drain, wipe it with a clothg, wrap it in buttered paper, and set it to roast before a clear fire, basting it every two minutes with the liquor in which it has been soaking (marinade), and which should be liberally supplied with wine. ‘When the ham is done, take it from the fire, untie the paper, and strip off the skin. Place it on a dish, brush over with strong meat glaze, and put it in the oven for half-an-liour. Place it on a dish with a paper frill round the knuckle-bone, and serve hot with one of the sauces given for Boar’s Head. BOBOTEE.—'This is a very delicate and tasty Indian curry, but very little known in England. Cut an onion into slices and fry them in butter. Soak a small thin slice of bread, mix it up with the onion, and add eight grated sweet almonds and two eggs beaten up in 1 teacupful of milk. Now stir in lib. of chopped meat, 1 table-spoonful of curry-powder, and 1 oz. of butter. Brush a pie-dish with butter, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, pour in the preparation, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderately hot oven. Put a border of boiled rice round a hot dish, pour in the curry, and serve. BOHEA.—A quality of Chinese tea named after a mountain. See Tea. BOILERS.—Although British cooks undoubtedly take the term “to boil” from the French bouillir, it is a fact that the Continental cook has no term which corresponds in its extended application to our “Boiler.” We have Boilers constructed for a variety of purposes, all of which are dubbed “ Boilers,” pi-eceded in many cases by a qualifying term, such as “ Iron Boiler,” “ Copper Boilers—continued. Boiler,” “ Kitchen Boiler ” ; and others again denoting their use, such as “ Milk Boiler,” “ Sugar Boiler,” “ Tea or Coffee Boiler,” and so on. The three illustrations selected for this article are Boilers of general use. The first, an iron oval Boiler (Fig. 174), is an exceedingly serviceable vessel, as it can be used for almost any purpose, reaches well on to the back of the stove, and can be emptied, or the contents drawn off as required, by means of a tap. The Double Boiler (Fig. 175) is an Ameri- can invention, and answers the purpose of a sort of bain- marie. It consists of two ves- sels, the upper fitting deeply into the lower. The lower vessel contains water, which may be kept perpetually on the boil; but any fluid, such as milk or sauce, contained in the upper vessel remains at a temperature below the boil- ing water, and can, therefore, be heated and kept hot with- out fear of waste or boiling over. For cooking custards, porridge, gruel, and such-like foods, the double Boiler is invaluable. The third sample (Fig. 176) is a Tea or Coffee Boiler, which, however useful for keeping these refreshing beverages at a respectable heat, rather belies its own name, seeing that neither tea nor coffee require to be boiled. Where a continued demand is made for coffee or tea, this Boiler, of which a very good sample is given in the illustration, becomes essential to commercial success. Many other vessels used for boiling liquid or heating it will be found described under their specific names, such as Bain-marie, Kettle, Muller, Saucepan, Stewpan, &c. BOILING.—By what accident the possibility of boil- ing water in a vessel over a fire revealed itself to mankind, we have no history to decide; the Jews practised it from their earliest record, and the Chinese, as usual, are reputed to have practised it before them. Its introduction to savage races has followed the footsteps of civilisation, but races have been met with by travellers who have been quite ignorant either of the fact or the mode of manufacturing vessels of such material as would stand the heat of the fire, and hold water at the same time. The Esquimaux seem to have caught the idea from such visitors as Franklin and others, and have become quite skilful, not only in that branch of cooking, but in making vessels from pot- stone. The native Britons used to heat water in wooden vessels by dropping hot stones into it; but a bowl of fat soup must have been an unknown luxury to them. In these modern times, by the aid of chemistry, “twin-sister to cookery,” we have learned so much of the principles upon which its details are carried out, that the process of boiling, in its many degrees and varieties, has been brought to a fine art. The definition of the term “ boiling ” is the arrival of any liqi*id to such a pitch of heat that it undergoes a physical change, and passes from the liquid state to that of vapour or steam. All liquors are not of the same density, but vary between the rarest ether to the densest mercury; and, as may be supposed, the degree of heat required to effect ebullition and its consequent vaporisation in these two extreme cases, varies very greatly. For instance, ether will boil with the heat of the hand, that is, about 90deg. Fahr., and soon disappears in vapour if the heat should be continued; but mercury can only be made to For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fig. 176. Boiler for Tea or Coffee (Adams’s).