THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 118 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued 1 teaspoonful of raw mustard. Stir thoroughly, warm up, pour over the steak, and serve. Frizzled Beef/—(1) Brown a piece of butter the size of an egg at the bottom of a saucepan ; add 1 teacupful of cream and 1 teaspoonful of flour, mixed with a little cold milk. Have ready £lb. of thinly-sliced cold smoked or salted Beef, lay the slices in the saucepan, and let them come to the boil. Serve hot. (2) Cut up some cold boiled salted or dried Beef, parboil it until it is sufficiently freshened, drain off the water, and add enough fresh boiling water to cover it. Bub equal quantities of butter and flour together until smooth, then add to the Beef. Beat up three eggs, yolks and whites together, and stir in with a little pepper a couple of minutes before taking from the fire. Serve hot on toast. (3) Cut ilb. of smoked Beef into thin pieces or shavings, pour some boiling water over it, and leave it for ten minutes. Take it out, drain it, put it into a frying-pan with 1 table- spoonful of melted butter, and fry it for a minute or so to curl or frizzle it. Make a little sauce with 1 breakfast- cupful of milk and 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour. Put the meat on a dish, and pour the sauce over, having added an egg well beaten and a little pepper. Serve hot. Galantine of Beef.—Bemove the bone and fat from about 51b. of the rump of Beef next the round (Fig. 136), lard it, and tie it round tightly with strips of wide tape, to keep it in shape. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into a saucepan, make it hot, add an onion and a carrot cut in slices, a calf’s foot, or any veal or liver trimmings that are handy, and pour in 2 gall, of rich stock or broth. Place the saucepan on the fire, warm the liquor, and add the joint of meat, two bay-leaves and cloves, Fig. 135. Rump of Beef, Showing the End which Joins Round. a little chopped shallot and parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil for a few minutes, skim well, then remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about four hours, or until the meat is done. Take out the meat, put it into a mould, and pour the liquor through a very fine sieve or muslin strainer over the meat; let it cool, skim off the fat, if any, and when the jelly is set, turn the galantine out on to a dish and serve. After the calf’s foot is used in the cooking, it may be boned, egg-and-breadcrumbed, and fried or served on a dish with rich sauce over it. Hamburg’ Steak.-—(1) Beat with a rolling-pin a slice of round steak so as to break the fibre. (A very effective machine has been invented for this purpose.) Fry two or three onions, minced fine, in butter until slightly browned. Spread the onions over the meat, fold the ends of the meat together, and pound again, to keep the onions in the middle. Broil two or three minutes. Spread with butter, salt, and pepper. (2) Chop up about 21b. of tender Beef, and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Put the meat on a dish, form it into six small, flattened steaks, and pour over each one the yolk of an egg, garnishing with two chopped shallots, 1 table- spoonful each of minced parsley and capers, and three boned anchovies, likewise chopped. Place them in clusters round the dish, and serve. Hashed Beef.—(1) The best cold roasted Beef for this dish is the under-cut of the sirloin, which should be sliced fin. thick, put into a stewpan, and covered with stock, adding one or Beef—continued. two minced onions and a turnip to every pound of meat. Let the meat get hot slowly, and simmer for three-quarters* of-an-hour. Thicken the gravy with flour stirred in smoothly, add salt and pepper, and when ready put on a dish and serve with red-currant jelly. A wineglassful of claret and 2 teaspoonful of moist sugar can be added to enrich the gravy. Garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. (2) Take 2 tumblerfuls of hot water, 1 table-spoonful of butter, 3 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, and the same quantity of fine breadcrumbs. Season this highly with cayenne pepper, adding lib. or more of cold Beef, minced. Stir all well together. Warm up, and serve as soon as hot. Put sippets of toast round tho dish. (3) Cut a small onion into thin slices and fry in butter, and when it begins to colour, stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour; then add 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, pepper and salt, a small pinch of powdered sweet herbs, and f wine- glassful of tarragon vinegar. When the sauce has boiled for a minute or two, strain it into another saucepan; when cold, put in lib. or so of cold Beef cut in thin slices. If roasted Beef, all outside parts must be trimmed off. Set the saucepan by the side of the fire for the contents to warm gradually, and when nearly ready add 1 table-spoonful of sliced pickled gherkins. The longer the hash takes to get hot, the softer the meat will be. Serve with mashed potatoes. (4) Cut some underdone roasted or boiled Beef into thin slices, lay them one by one in a buttered baking-tin, and strew over them some mushrooms, onions, and a little parsley, all finely chopped ; add pepper and salt, and pour in at the side of the pan as much liquid stock as will come up to the top of, but not over the meat. Strew plenty of baked bread- crumbs over all, and set the tin in a moderate oven for half- an-hour, or till the moisture is nearly dried up. Half a wine- glassful of white wine may be added with the stock. (5) Take some roasted Beef according to the amount required, and slice it up in thin pieces. Chop an onion, and place it in a stewpan with ^ pint of rich brown gravy, and let this boil until the onions are cooked. Next throw in the meat, season well with pepper and salt, add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup and 1 gill of brown sauce, boil for five minutes, and serve with pieces of toasted bread round it. (6) Put 1 breakfast-cupful or more of good gravy into a saucepan with a small lump of butter kneaded with flour, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of Worcester sauce, half that quantity of mushroom ketchup, and 1 pinch of pepper; simmer gently on the side of the fire for fifteen minutes, and then let it get cold. Skim off the fat, add about lib. of Beef cut in slices and dusted with flour, and simmer gently for ten minutes or until the meat is hot, taking care not to let the liquor boil, or the meat will harden. Turn the hash out on to a dish, garnish with fingers of toast, and serve very hot. (7) Put 2oz. of butter into a frying-pan, warm it, add 1 teacupful of small onions dusted with flour, and fry them brown, adding salt and pepper to taste. Put them with the butter into a saucepan, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of rich stock or broth, 1 table-spoonful of lemon-pickle, half that quantity of mushroom ketchup, and double the quantity of port wine. Put the saucepan over a clear slow fire, and cook until the onions are done. Have ready some slices of cold cooked Beef; put them on a dish, pour over the onion mixture, let it remain for thirty minutes to soak, put it near the fire until it is all quite hot, but without boiling, and serve. Hashed Boiled Beef.—Put a few chopped onions into a frying-pan with a little butter, brown them over the fire, dust them over with flour, and pour in 1 tumblerful of red wine and half that quantity of stock. Boil for a minute or so, and add a few chopped mushrooms, a little thyme, salt and pepper, and one or two laurel-leaves. Boil until they are all done, pour the whole over some slices of cold boiled Beef placed in a dish, warm them all together in the oven for about half-an-hour, and serve at once. Hashed Corued Beef.—(1) Brown in a saucepan two sliced onions with loz. of butter, and add lib. of cooked, well- chopped corned Beef, and four chopped potatoes. Moisten with 1 teacupful each of broth and Spanish sauce, season with pepper and nutmeg, stir well, and cook for fifteen