224 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred, to, see under their special heads. Cabbages—continued. not to break them, season with 1 pinch of salt and \ pinch of pepper, and fill the inside of the leaves with sausage force- meat. Close them up, tie the Cabbage so that none of the stuffing escapes, lay it in a saut^-pan containing one cut-up carrot, a cut-up onion, a piece of lard skin, and | pint of white broth, cover with a little fat from the soup-stock, lay a buttered paper on top, and cook for one hour in the oven, basting occasionally with its own liquor. When done, untie it, and serve with 5 pint of Madeira sauce in a sauceboat or poured over. (3) German Style.—Scoop out the insides of two or three Cabbages. Make a mince of the soft part of what is taken out, an onion, a piece of fat bacon, six fresh eggs, l^oz. of butter, the grated crumb of two fresh rolls, a little mace, and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of cream. Fill up the cavities with this mixture, cover a Cabbage-leaf over each hole, tie up with tape or string, and put them in a stewpan close together; add sufficient good broth to cover, and boil until quite done. Take each one out carefully, put it on a dish, take off the string, and pour over some onion or white sauce made with cream. Timbale of Cabbage.—Take a large Cabbage with a good heart, and strip it of its tender leaves one by one; wash these well, and put them in hot salted water for fifteen minutes to blanch; drain, and lay them on a cloth. Fry two chopped onions, but do not let them colour; then chop up the Cabbage, add a little seasoning, put it in the pan with the onions, and fry over a slow fire. When done, take them off and let them get nearly cold; then mix up with an equal amount of sausage-meat, 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, two or three whipped eggs, and 1 pinch of chopped parsley. Place some thin slices of bacon at the bottom and round the sides of a large timbale-mould, and against these put some of the whole leaves, one on top of the other, so as to have no space left; then put a layer of the forcemeat, then another layer of Cabbage-leaves, and so on alternately till the mould is full. Cover the top with bacon, and put the mould into a moderate oven for an-hour- and-a-half. Remove the fat from the mould, turn out the timbale on to a dish, take the bacon from the top, and pour over a little brown sauce. White-Cabbage Salad.—Select a tender white Cabbage, cut out the stalks and ribs, put a number of the thinnest leaves together, and cut them into narrow strips. Cut two thin rashers of fat bacon into small squares, put them in a frying- pan, and fry until they begin to take colour. Move the pan off the fire, pour in 1 teacupful each of vinegar and water, season it with salt and pepper, place the pan over the fire again, and stir the contents until hot. Throw the Cabbage lightly into a salad-bowl, pour the prepared dressing over it, and serve. Savoy Cabbages. — These, writes Jerrold, are the staple winter greens of all classes, although some persons Fig. 248. Savoy Cabbage. stigmatise the flavour as strong. A few years ago, a Savoy Cabbage (see Fig. 248) meant the same variety to Cabbages—continued. all, but of late years this Cabbage has been greatly improved, and we have several distinct varieties, such as Little Pixie, of which, in the Review of the Yegetable Season in the Horticultural Journal, it was said: “Among Savoys, there is nothing so valuable as Little Pixie, planted out 16in. apart, plant from plant; the ground is literally covered with small but delicious heads, of from lilli. to 21b. each. We advise all gardening friends to grow this Savoy.” Another very excellent variety of Savoy is a hybrid sprouting dwarf .description known as New Sprouting Ulm. Two other good Savoys are Drumhead and Golden Globe; the former the largest in cultivation, the latter a peculiar golden colour, which has been in the markets and greengrocers’ shops for some time past. Nicholson specially mentions Little Pixie. Boiled Savoy Cabbages.—Clean and remove the outer leaves of some Savoy Cabbages, pul them in a stewpan with boiling water, a little salt, and a small jnece of common soda, and boil until quite tender. Drain the water from them, sprinkle over a little pepper, and spread some butter over them. Melted butter sauce should be served with, but not over, them. Braised Savoy Cabbage for Garnishing.—Take three good Savoy Cabbages, or as many as may be required, trim and wash them well, cut them in halves, and boil for about twenty minutes; then remove them, and let them drain. Cut the stalks away, season with salt and pepper, and tie the Cabbages up, joining two halves together. Cover a stewpan bottom with thin slices of fat bacon, place the Cabbages in it, add a carrot, an onion with three or four cloves stuck in it, a little thyme, parsley, and three bay-leaves ; cover the Cabbages with good stock, and let them simmer for about an hour. When done, remove the Cabbages, drain them well upon a sieve, remove the strings, press them in a napkin, so as to be able to cut them out into different designs according to taste, and garnish the entree with them. Fried Savoy Cabbage and Bacon.—Take cold boiled Savoy, chop fine, season with salt and pepper, put in a frying-pan with a slice of fat bacon to each handful of Cabbage, and fry till well heated; or the bacon may be fried first, and the Cabbage tossed in the bacon-fat. Stewed Savoy Cabbage in Cream.—Boil some Savoy Cabbages in salted water until done. Let them get cold, and then squeeze out the water, cut in quarters, and take out the stalk. Put them into a saucepan with 1 piled table- spoonful of butter, a small handful of flour, a little mace, and sufficient cream to keep them from burning, and let them stew thoroughly Red Cabbages.—These Cabbages are rarely used in this country for any other purpose than pickling, therefore their variety is not great. Nicholson mentions the red Dutch as the best of its sort, and this appears to stand almost alone in its glory. Continental cooks prepare and serve red Cabbages in a variety of ways, but there is no reason to suppose that for these purposes any special kind of red Cabbage is required. Boiled Pickled Red Cabbage with Oysters.—Put the re- quired quantity of pickled Cabbage into a bowl of boiling water, and let it soak for ten or twelve minutes. Take it out and drain quite dry, rubbing well with a cloth, put it into a saucepan with a small quantity of dripping and stock, sprinkle over a little coarse black pepper, and boil it. When done, put it in a circle round a dish, fill the cavity with stewed oysters, and serve. Boiled Red Cabbage. — Cleanse thoroughly a large red Cabbage, cut it into slices, and put them into boiling water for fifteen minutes or so. Boil them until tender, then drain, and serve with a little thick brown gravy sharpened with a little lemon-juice or vinegar. Pickled Red Cabbage.—(1) Trim and remove the hard stalks from three red Cabbages, cut them into thin slices, lay on a dish, cover with salt, and leave for twelve hours. At the end of that time, wash the salt off the Cabbage and drain well; then put it in a stone jar, mixing it with thyme, mint, parsley, and peppercorns; pour in sufficient strong white vinegar to cover, place the lid on the jar, and leave it for