8 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. l'or details respecting Culinary Processest Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Algse—continued. oatmeal or Indian corn. The following are the more familiar kinds: Chondrus crispus, or Carrageen; better known as Irish Moss, Pearl-moss, or Sea-moss. See Pig. 4. See also Carrageen. Laminaria digitata, styled Sea-girdle in Fig. 5. Sea-Girdle. England, Tangle in Scotland, and Redware in the Orkneys. See Fig. 5. L. saccharina (Alaria esculenta), or Bladder- lock ; called also by the Scotch, Henware or Honeyware. See Fig. 6. Porphyra laminata (P. vulgaris), called Laver in England, Stoke in Ireland, and Slouk in Scotland. See Fig. 7. Ulva latissima, or Green Laver. See Fig. 8. From their nutritive qualities and plentiful distribution along our coasts, the foregoing Algas and others have been freely adopted by the poorer classes as a staple article of diet. In fashionable circles the Laver has been highly esteemed as “marine sauce.” It is gathered during the Fig. 6. Bladderlock. winter months, and is reckoned to be fit for food only in the cold season. Visitors to the seaside, especially invalids, should not fail to make the acquaintance of these Algee. They are easily prepared for eating, as follows: Wash in cold water until all salt and sand are removed, and add a little bicarbonate of soda to the last water, in which you may Algse —continued. allow the weed to steep for some hours; this will remove some of the bitterness. Stew in rain water or milk until it becomes tender and mucilaginous, and serve either strained, like spinach, or in the broth. Pepper, vinegar or lemon-juice, salt or Fig. 7. Laver. Fig. 8. Green Laver. butter, may be add^l at discretion, or according to taste. After Laver has been thoroughly boiled for some time it should assume a dark green colour, and then, when cold, can be stored away in earthenware jars for future use. It will keep good for two or three weeks. ALGERIAN WINES.—A very large variety of Wines are produced from the sunny vineyards of Algeria, but they are considered inferior in quality to the sweet Wines of Spain and Portugal, which they otherwise closely resemble. They are not sufficiently known in this country. See Wines. ALKALI.—An agent which neutralises acids. The chief Alkalies used in cookery or confectionery are Ammonia, Potash, and Soda. Refer to those headings. ALKANET (Fr. Orcanet; Ger. Orkanet).—A plant of the Bugloss tribe (Anchusa tinctoria). A beautiful crimson dye is obtained from the dried root, which is useful for colouring fats, oils, wax, spirits, essences, and other things in which it can be infused. Commercially, it is used for colouring cheese, and wine-merchants add it to inferior port to heighten the colour. Bottlers of port wine are apt to stain the new corks in a strong alcoholic infusion of Alkanet, to give them, when drawn, the character of old bottling. Alkanet is largely cultivated in Montpellier. ALEEBNES.—A cordial prepared from Kermes (Arabian berries). See Cordials and Liqueurs. Bruise lib. of mace, lib. of bay leaves, loz. of cloves, 2oz. of cinnamon, and 2oz. of nutmegs, and soak for some days in 3galls. of brandy. The whole should then be distilled to 2galls., with which 181b. of clarified syrup of kermes and 1 pint of orange- flower water, are to be eventually added. The distillation is important, but by straining and filtering the infusion as it is, a very good cordial is produced. Imitation Alkermes.—Macerate for ten days 2 drachms each (bruised) of cinnamon and cloves, 4 drachms of nutmeg, in 4qts. of proof spirits; after straining and filtering this, dissolve 51b. of loaf sugar in 1 pint of rose-water, and add to the spirit, colouring a light red. ALLIGATOR APPLE (Anona palustris).—The tree bearing this fruit grows wild in the marshes of Jamaica. It is shiny and smooth in appearance, and pleasant to the taste, but highly narcotic. ALLIGATOR PEAR (Persea gratissima).—Another name for this is the Avocado. It is a native of the West Indies, about the size and shape of a large European pear, and is said to be the most delicious fruit in the world. It contains a kernel, inclosed in a soft rind, and