TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 15 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces. <lc., referred to, see under their special heads. Almonds—continued. a variety of other delightful things. The receipt generally favoured for this Almond Cake is that given by Urbain-Dubois, which is something as follows: Pound 4oz. of Sweet and Bitter Almonds in equal proportions, with the same quantity of sugar, and half a medium stick of vanilla. Bub into this 3oz. of butter, a little chopped orange-rind peeled very thin, and a little pinch of salt, and work up with the yolks of two eggs and one whole one. When sufficiently combined, pass through a medium sieve into a basin, and stir with a spoon for a few minutes. Take lib. of puff paste, roll out lightly to the thick- ness of fin., and cut out a round about 6in. in diameter. Boll out the remainder of the paste, and cut another round, the same size as the previous one. Put one of these flats on the baking-sheet, and spread the Almond preparation smoothly over it to within lin. of the circumference. Wet the uncovered edge with the paste-brush, and then lay the other round flat exactly over this. Press down gently so as to fix the two rounds, and cut out the edges ornamentally. Brush over the surface of the cake with white of egg, and mark the top with the point of a well- Fig. 18. Pithiviers Almond Cake. floured knife in any pattern fancied (see Fig. 18). Bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes, sprinkle over with caster sugar, and put it back into the oven again for five or ten minutes to glaze. Serve cold on a folded napkin. Salted and “ Devilled ” Almonds.—Blanch and dry in a cloth as many Jordan Almonds as may be required; put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them until they are of a delicate fawn colour. Then pour them into a colander, and sprinkle them over immediately with fine table- salt, tossing them as they are sprinkled. Serve, hot or cold, in little trays with cheese. To “devil” them, mix with the salt twice the quantity of cayenne pepper, and sprinkle as before. Sugared Almonds. —These are usually manufactured wholesale by machinery, but can be made in small quantities, if desired, by those who have a sufficient knowledge of the practical details of sugar-boiling. The invention of a revolving apparatus has considerably simplified their manufacture for the trade. Blanch, wash, wipe, and dry in the oven, lib. of Jordan Almonds. Have ready dissolved 6oz. of gum arabic, not too thin; you must also have at hand, clarified, 3ilb. of the finest loaf sugar syrup of 32deg. (see Syrups). The syrup, quite hot but noI boiling, must be kept over a stove, at a low heat. Put a sixth part of the syrup into a sugar-boiler, with a sixth part of the dissolved gum, and boil this to the thread degree (see Sugar- boiling). Suspend a round-bottomed stewpan over a low gas-stove, put the Almonds in it, toss them until they arc hot, add 1 teaspoonful of gum, shake together until the gum is dried on the Almonds, then add another spoonful of gum, and shake or dredge in a little starch-powder, to give them another coating. Next use the beading-funnel, to give a coating with the boiled sugar and gum, and this done, the Almonds being detached and separated from each other, and perfectly dry, turn them out upon a cane sieve to riddle off any fragments of sugar. Starch and gum five times more, cleaning out the pan each time, and put the confits to dry, at a very slow heat, till next day. Now give the confits six more charges or coatings in the manner before described, and afterwards dry them in slow heat to whiten them. Colours must be added in a liquid or powdered state. When giving the last two charges, a few drops of any land of essence, such as vanilla, orange, lemon, roses, cinnamon, &c., may be Almonds—con t inned. added to flavour the syrup used for the preparation of the confits. See also Macaeoons, Marzipan, Royeau, Orgeat, and Ratafias. AXiOJA.—A Spanish beverage made of honey, water, and spice. ALOXE.— The name of a red Burgundy wine. See Wines. ALUM (TV. Alun; Ger. Alaun; Ital. Alunna; Sp. Alumbre).—Alum is a white, transparent, mineral salt, having very astringent qualities. It is sometimes used by bread-makers and pastrycooks to whiten flour. It is generally regarded as an adulteration. Publicans employ it to quickly clear gin which has become turbid by the addition of water. It gives a creamy head to porter, and a smack of old age to other beers. To inferior port wine it is thought to add brilliancy of colour. When employed for these purposes, it is technically known in the trade as “Rocky,” or “Stuff.” Alum is largely manufactured in this country, there being numerous Alum-works in different parts of England and Scotland; amongst these, the more important are those of Lord Glasgow, near Glasgow; Lord Dundas and Mulgrave, at Whitby; Mr. Spence, at Manchester, and Goole, in Yorkshire; and Mr. Pochin, also at Manchester. These two latter have distinct processes of their own, and are credited with the largest and best productions. There are also extensive Alum-works in the neighbourhood of Newcastle-upon-Tyne. In some parts of the world Alum is found in a natural state; but the Alum of commerce is almost invariably prepared from aluminous earths, known as Alum-ores, Alum-rock, Alum-stone, or Alunite. Rone but the very best Alum should be used for culinary purposes, as inferior kinds contain numerous impurities. AMABELE.—A favourite food of the Kaffir, consisting of millet-seed crushed and toasted into the form of brown sawdust. It is served in a small pot, from which the guests take pinches at a time. AMANDINES.—See Almonds. • AMASI.—This is the name given by the natives of Central Africa to a drink made from sour milk, in which condition it is believed to be more wholesome, nutritious, and easy of digestion. It is prepared by adding to new milk a small quantity of milk previously allowed to sour. This, upon stirring, affects the whole in a very short space of time, after which it will be ready for drinking. The in- genuity of the distiller appears to have reached this almost unexplored country long before its customs were known to civilised men, for recent travellers affirm that a very harsh spirit is obtained from fermented Amasi, which is a choice beverage supplied at the expense of the chiefs during the wild orgies of sacrificial festivals. AMAZON BITTERS.—See Bitters. AMAZON TEA.—The leaves of this plant (Eupa- torium Ayapana) are much used in Brazil in combination with China Teas, and are considered to improve the bouquet and flavour. AMBER PUDDING.—See Puddings. AMBERGRIS.—A solid, opaque, ash-coloured, in- flammable substance, variegated like marble, remarkably light, rugged on its surface, and, when heated, emitting a fragrant odour. It is a concretion, the supposed result of disease, produced in the intestines of the spermaceti whale, and is sometimes found floating on the ocean in regions frequented by whaleSj in immense masses. It is chiefly useful for toilet purposes, but enters occasionally into confectionery, and vintners dissolve it in wine to give bouquet, one grain being sufficient to perfume a whole | hogshead.