159 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <lc., referred to, see under their special heads. BOAR (Fr. Pore (wild—sanglier; wild boar’s head— hure de sanglier); Ger. Eber (wild—wilde-schwein); Ital. Yerro (wild—cingniale, cignale); Sp. Yerraco (wild— Jabali).—In its correct sense this name refers to the male domestic pig (Sms scrofa); but as the term is rarely used in cooking except as applying to “ Boar’s head,” it is apt to be confused with the Wild Boar, from which the service of the Boar’s head originally sprung. Spearing the Wild Boar has always been regarded as an exceedingly meritorious sport, being attended with no inconsiderable amount of danger, from the simplicity of the weapon used by the hunter. The head was considered the trophy, and was probably served to table on special occasions more as a proof of the host’s prowess in the field than for its delicacy as a food. The custom is still continued in some places at times of great festivity, especially at Queen’s College, Oxford, on Christmas-day, where the Boar’s head is brought to table with great pomp. The custom of serving a Boar’s head at Christmastide continues to be observed in many large houses, so also is it frequently prepared for banquets without regard to special season; but the wisdom of our cooks, or the scarcity of the Wild Boar of the woods, and the still less necessity for the display of a host’s valour in the chase, which is now taken for granted in polite circles, has led to the slaughter of the less furious tame pig of the sty, and the elaborate boning, stuffing, and dressing of its head. It forms an effective dish, and is exceedingly tasty withal; and cooks love to exercise their talents and decorative skill in converting an otherwise by no means handsome or intelligent countenance into one so ornamental that it seems a pity to cut it. Let the custom continue by all means, but let it not be forgotten that the romance is dead, that the dreaded Wild Boar is almost a beast of the past, and that the Boar’s head as now served is nothing fiercer than the head of the domestic pig. To dress a Boar’s head handsomely is regarded by cooks as a proof of culinary skill, and it is not therefore surprising to find that some of the most skilful have laid themselves out to produce something that shall be beyond the ordinary in this respect. To their credit be it observed, that where it has been possible to obtain the veritable Wild Boar’s head, it has been done. Soyer, Gouffe, and Ude have been very successful in their efforts in this direction, and the same may be said of many others; but if we are to judge of the abilities of the cooks of to-day, as exhibited in the Boar’s head competitions held at certain “ Cookery and Food ” ex- hibitions, then the cookery of the country is at a discount, for the Boars’ heads shown, and to which gold and silver medals were awarded, were little better than what an eminent cook proclaimed them to be— “ Guy Fawkes masks.” Cutlets of Wild. Boar.—Cut from a young Boar a dozen cutlets, remove the hard skin, clear the end of the rib bones, and put them to soak for a day in a cooked pickle or marinade as given for Deessed Boae’s Head. Drain them, wipe them dry with a sponge, and put them into a saute- pan with equal parts of butter and oil; fry them quickly, turning them once or twice. As soon as the flesh is set, drain off the fat, pour over them a little meat-glaze, and arrange them on a dish in a circle. Pour some Spanish sauce in the centre of the dish, and serve up a sauceboatful separately. Dressed Boar’s Head.— (1) Gouffe gives very good instruction for the preparation of a boiled head in the old stylo. He first instructs the cook to singe carefully and clean thoroughly a Boar’s head (wild, if he can get one). Remove the ears, which should be boiled separately, and not be over-done, so that they may not lose their fine shape. Bone the head (see No. 2), sprinkle it with salt, and put it in a basin of pickle for four or five hours. Cut the flesh of four rabbits into large dice, and mix with 21b. of peeled truffles, 21b. of tongue, 21b. of boiled fat bacon, all cut in lin. squares. Free the remaining fragments or trimmings of the flesh of the Boar—continued. rabbits from skin and gristle to make a forcemeat, and chop it up coarsely, together with 41b. of veal and 41b. of fat bacon, similarly freed of gristle and skin; season with 2oz. of salt and loz. of mixed spice, and put this forcemeat into a basin. Take the Boar’s head out of the pickle, drain it, wipe it in and out, and season the inside by dusting freely with mixed spice, but no salt will be required. Having done this, spread the inside freely with a layer of the forcemeat and then a layer of the first mixture, and continue spreading in first one and then the other until they are both used up. Then wrap the head up in a cloth, shape it as cleverly as possible, and boil it for five hours in a thin broth well seasoned, adding a bottle of Madeira. When the head is done, let it cool; then drain, take it out of the cloth, wrap it up again in a clean cloth, and bind it round very tightly with tape Gin. wide, beginning at the snout and binding round and round the head, shaping as you go. When quite cold, untie the head, put it in the oven for a minute, and wipe off the fat with a cloth. Trim the back part of the head, put the ears in their places, fixing them in with small wooden skewers, and using a mixture of lard and mutton- suet to hide the skewers. Now comes the question of the colour, and these are Gouffo’s words: “ Mix some clean soot with :[lb. of lard, and rub it all over the head, to produce a shiny black surface. Some cooks use chocolate for this colouring, but I consider soot preferable, as it produces a smoother surface; moreover, I have seen Careme himself employ this very process to Fig. 173. Boar's Head. colour Boar’s head ; and in this, as in most other instances, I think it well to follow the lead of this talented prac- titioner.” (As this skin is removed by the carver as he proceeds with his slicing, the sooty colouring should not be objectionable : it is very effective and life-like.) When the head is coloured, cut out a piece of the skin in the shape of a shield between the eyes, 3in. from the snout. This can best be done by cutting out the shield-shape first in stout cardboard, and then marking it out through the skin with the point of a very sharp, small knife. Fill this place with white lard, and decorate it with flowers made of fat, or natural flowers will be better, especially such as camellias, or hothouse roses. The tusks and eyes are then remodelled in fat and carefully adjusted to complete the imitation. Next place the head upon a raised dish or specially solid rice socle, over which Montpellier butter has been thickly spread. Add shapes of coloured aspic jelly at discretion, and serve with all the honours. (2) Procure a head specially cut with a large piece of the neck attached, singe it well, wipe it carefully with a cloth, and scrape all over with a knife without scratching the skin. Next bone it, by laying it on a cloth upon its face, opening it with a knife from the tip of the under-jaw to the cut part of the neck, and then proceeding to strip the flesh from the bones without piercing the skin, leaving no flesh what- ever upon the bones. Remove the bones of the neck in the same way, and cut it into long strips 2in. wide and 2in. thick. Place the mask and strips from neck in a salting- tub, and throw over it 101b. of kitchen salt, lib. of brown