226 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKEEY. Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils- CAPE.—This is literally the French for coffee, hut by analogy it has long since come to pass that the term is used indiscriminately to signify the establishment or “ cabaret ” where coffee can be obtained, and answering to our coffee-house. CAPE AU IiAIT.—See Coffee. CAPETIERES — See Coffee. C AG-KT AED.—This is the French name for a pot raised on four legs, so that the heat is at a distance from it. Lazy-bones is the literal translation. CAISSES.—Fr. for paper cases folded in pleats with a turned-down edge, in which biscuits, little cakes, souffles, and other delicacies are cooked. CAKES {Fr. Gateaux; Ger. Kuchen ; Hal. Focaceie; Sp. Bollos).— The word Cake is sufficiently familiar to require little or no explanation. It is described in Webster’s Dictionary as “a small mass of dough, baked; or a composition of Hour, butter, sugar or other ingredients baked in a small mass.” From this it is evident that the first idea of a Cake is the small mass of plain dough, baked, and in this assumption we are confirmed by Shakespeare, who, in every case where he mentions Cakes, speaks of them with anything but the respect that would be due to the delicious combinations and imposing constructions that modern confectioners range under this head. “ Dost thou think, because thou art virtuous, there shall be no more Cakes and Ale,” in Twelfth Night, evidently refers to Twelfth Cakes, which in their youthful simplicity were little better than wheat-flour and water, and sufficiently plain to be eaten with cheese and ale. Our earliest Bride Cakes were merely thin flour-and- water biscuits, or Cakes, which were broken over the bride’s head. He a captain! llang him, rogue! He lives Upon mouldy stewed prunes and dried Cake, is an exclamation that shows the contempt in which the Cakes of those times were held, giving no idea or promise of the works of art in Cakes with which we were to be familiar. Neither have we any reliable history or records by which to trace back the various improvements that have followed each other in Cake-making, and attribute them to individuals. The earliest cookery book printed gives no idea of a Cake such as modern cookery books teem with, so we may congratulate ourselves upon the fact, that however good the old times may have been to live in, the then existing folk knew nothing about our Cakes. The term “ Cake ” is derived from the Latin coquere, to cook, and other countries have adopted modifications of the same word. The Danes call it Kage; Icelanders, Kalca; Catalans, Coca; and Provincial French, Couque, an assortment from which many other variations have been born; but none of them seem to be further from the original word than our own. Before giving particulars of modern Cake-making, it is advisable to explain that much confusion of tongues has arisen amongst cooks and confectioners practising in this country with regard to terms and classification of Cakes and other goods, the difficulty arising from the fact that British cooks have but one or two names, such as Cakes and biscuits, to embrace them all; whereas Continental cooks in the finesse of their languages may have a hundred names to distinguish a hundred styles of preparing or serving. The French cook sometimes uses the term “biscuit” for what we should pronounce a “ Cake,” and again many of our biscuits are more propei’ly Cakes, and vice versa. The French gateau comprehends a large proportion of our Cakes; but modern British cooks have accustomed themselves to associate the name “ gateau ” with Cakes made of preserved fruits and sugar, such as gateau de prunes, or plums, which differs materially from our “ plum Cake,” the former Cakes—continued. being a sort of fruit cheese or paste, whereas the plum Cake is, with the usual perversity of British culinary nomenclature, made up of dried raisins and currants, which are not plums at all. From such a culinary Babel it is not easy to draw nice distinctions, there- fore, in order to avoid unnecessary complications, the very simplest classification has been adopted, so that many of those “ Cakes ” which might otherwise be graced with different headings will be found hereunder. It will be seen by this extensive collection of receipts that there is a similarity in the processes which prevails throughout them all. In the first place, it is advisable that all the materials of a Cake should be carefully selected, for upon them the success of the Cake depends. Not only must they be of the best and perfectly clean, but free in every way from adulterative matter. “ Let all the ingredients,” writes an experienced confectioner, “ be picked over; flour dried, warmed, and sifted, currants washed in a hair sieve, wiped dry in a cloth, and set before the fire, and then before being added to the Cake let them be dusted over with flour. Sugar should be of the finest, and all lumps sifted out of it; eggs must be thoroughly beaten, and run through a strainer; butter, melted in a basin, set in a larger basin containing hot water, and after- wards it should he beaten up by the hand and mixed with milk or ‘creamed,’ as it is called, with sugar. Candied peels for the substance of the Cake should be chopped rather small, and lemon- or orange-peel (zest) rasped fine ; and it would be better if these latter were to be pounded in a mortar after rasping. The essences used for flavourings are very useful in Cake-making, and spices must be in finest powder. Milk-and-water for diluting (or ‘moistening’) ought to be lukewarm, not hot or cold. Good stale bread, well soaked in milk-and-water, and then beaten to a paste and passed through a sieve, makes a very light medium for a Cake, and bakers frequently dispose in this way of an excess of stale bread.” The baking of Cakes requires especial attention, as they contain more or less sugar, dried fruit, candied peel, and other sugary materials, all of which are liable to burn, or stick to the vessel holding them during baking. Other Cakes containing yeast, baking-powder, or other leaven require quick baking, so as to set the dough firmly before the aeration subsides. Should the oven he very hot the Cake may bum on the outside, and yet be quite uncooked in the centre. This can be tested by passing a bright knitting needle, or small silver skewer, into the Cake, and then withdrawing it. Should it return quite clean, the Cake is done through; but should the dough adhere to the needle in the least degree, the Cake must remain in the oven a little longer. There is no other class of culinary goods in which the ingenuity and skill of the cook, pastry-cook, or con- fectioner finds more scope for practice than in making and decorating Cakes. In many cases the art does not lie so much in the making or baking of the Cake or Cakes as in their ornamentation and adaption. This will be amply proven by a glance at the very extensive assort- ment of receipts for Cakes collected by the united efforts of the cooks and confectioners engaged upon the staff of this Encyclopaedia. Tins, moulds, rings, hoops, pans, and other vessels for shaping and making Cakes of all sorts, sizes, and designs are to be found in any cooks’ and confectioners’ utensil-makers’ warehouse, only a few of these having been selected for our use as typical or specially appropriate to a purpose. For others, should greater variety be desired, the cook should apply for a catalogue to a firm of good repute. It is advisable to remember that moulds and rings, &c., require' greasing, and this, especially in the case of elaborate moulds, is more effectually accomplished by warming the mould with the butter in it, and then allowing