187 .TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bread—continued. teacupful of citron-peel cut into very small dice. Wet the centre of a cloth, butter and flour the place where it is wet, pour the mixture on to the cloth spread over a basin, bring the corners together level with the mixture, and tie tightly. Place the pudding in boiling water, and keep it bubbling for an-hour-and-a-half. When done, turn it out on a dish, and serve with a good wine sauce. Bread Biscuits.—Work with a spoon Jib. of warmed butter to a cream, stirring in Jib. of finely-powdered sifted sugar ; then add Jib. of Breadcrumbs which have been previously baked, and make into a batter. Work for ten minutes, then add 1 teacupful of cream and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar. Fill small round paper moulds with the mixture, and dust caster sugar over them; allow the sugar to nearly dissolve, and then bake in a moderately hot oven until done. Bread Brandy Cakes.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs with the whites of five. Heat 1 pint .of milk, dissolve Jib. of butter in it, and pour it while hot over about lqt. of Bread- crumbs. Let this get cold, then add the eggs, 1 breakfast- cupful of sugar, and the same measure of well-washed currants, with a little nutmeg and 1 wineglassful of best brandy. Make some short paste, line sufficient patty-pans with it, and put 1 table-spoonful of the mixture in each. Set in a moderate oven, and bake for twenty minutes, or until done to a light brown. Bread-and-Butter Pudding (Baked).-- (1) Butter the inside of a pie-dish, and cut slices of very thin Bread-and-butter, the butter being thickly spread. Place a layer at the bottom of the dish, and sprinkle a few well-washed cur- rants over it, a few raisins being a great improvement. Continue to put these layers until the dish is nearly full, but allowing room for the Bread to swell. The top layer should not have currants sprinkled over it, as they are apt to get dry or burnt. Take sufficient milk with three or four eggs beaten up in it to fill the dish, sweeten to taste, and flavour with a little orange-flower water; pour this over the slices of Bread-and-butter, and let it soak for a little while. A little powdered sugar or grated nutmeg, and a few raisins stoned and cut in halves, put on the top layer, are admissible. Bake for about three-quarters- of-an-hour in a moderate oven. (2) Take lib. of Bread and cut into slices; butter these, and put them in a dish with a little finely-cut citron-peel and a few raisins between the slices. Beat 4 table- spoonfuls of sugar into eight eggs, and add about 3 pints of milk and a little grated nutmeg. Pour this on the Bread, and let it stand for the Bread to soak up some of the milk; then bake in a moderate oven for three- quarters-of-an-hour. Bread Cake.—(1) Set half-a-quartern of Bread dough in a warm place to rise ; when risen, work in 1 teaspoonful of baking - powder, Jib. of butter, Jib. of caster sugar, Jib. of sultana raisins, Jib. of stoned raisins, Jib. of currants that have been well washed and dried, Jib. of chopped candied peel, 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, and a little grated nutmeg. Butter a cake-tin, turn the mixture in, and bake it nicely. (2) Scald 1 pint of milk, and let it cool; then add 1 tea- spoonful of salt, 1 teacupful of fresh yeast, and 5 or C breakfast-cupfuls of flour, or sufficient to make a soft dough. Let this stand to work. The next day make a mixture of 1 breakfast-cupful of creamed butter, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sugar, 1 table spoonful of mixed spices, and the yolks and whites of four eggs, beaten separately; add this to the dough, and beat well. Throw in Jib. of stoned raisins, Jib. of washed and dried currants (floured), and 2oz. of cut citron-peel. Let the dough rise till light. Stir it, and pour into small buttered cake-tins to two-thirds full; stand these in a warm place for twenty minutes, then bake for about an hour in a moderate oven. (3) Dissolve loz. of German yeast in 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and stir into 1 pint of finely-sifted flour. Let this rise for lialf-an-hour, and then add 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, one egg, 2oz. of butter, loz. of thinly-sliced candied peel, and a little caraway-seed and cinnamon, both powdered. Mix well together, cover with a cloth, and let the dough rise for lialf-an-hour; then put it in a buttered tin, and bake at first in a very hot oven, allowing the oven to cool a little by degrees, so that the cake may be done through. (4) Mix at night-time 1 pint of scalded new milk, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and J breakfast-cupful of yeast, and add enough flour to make a soft dough. In the morning, prepare 1 breakfast-cupful of creamed butter, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of mixed spices, and four eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. Add this mixture to the beaten dough, and beat again well; then put 1 breakfast- cupful of stoned and chopped raisins, 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed and picked-over currants, and J breakfast-cupful of sliced citron-peel. Flour the fruit, stir the dough down, put it into cake-tins two-tliirds full, stand these in a warm place for fifteen or twenty minutes, and then bake one hour or longer in a moderate oven. Bread Cheesecakes. - Cut a French roll into very thin slices, pour 1 pint of boiling cream over it, and let it soak for an hour. Slightly warm Jib. of butter and beat it with eight eggs, mix the cream and bread with the eggs, put in Jib. of well-washed and dried currants, 1 wineglassful of brandy, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Beat all the ingredients until they are well mixed and the mixture smooth. Butter some patty-pans and line them with a good puff paste, fill them with the mixture, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. When cooked, take the cheesecakes out of the tins, arrange them on a folded table-napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a dish, and serve. Bread Cream Ice.—Grate into a jug two stale penny sponge cakes and two slices of stale Bread (brown Bread will do). Put Jib. of caster sugar into 1 pint of cream and J pint of milk, dissolve thoroughly, and pour it over the cakes and Bread. Put the jug in a saucepan with water two-tliirds up the jug, and boil until the contents get quite thick; or use the bain-marie if you have one. When thick enough, take the jug out of the pan, stir well, and put the cream into a freezer. A glass of maraschino or cura^oa added before freezing gives a fine flavour to these ices. Bread Croustades a la B.eine.—Cut eight small croustades any shape preferred out of some household Bread, and scoop them out on the top. Put some liog’s-lard in a frying-pan, and when it is hot fry the croustades in it. When they are a nice brown, drain them, and fill with a puree of either meat or game. Bread Croustades for Savouries.—Cut a household loaf into even slices about lin. in thickness, then with a sharp knife shape each slice into croustades, as shown in Fig. 201, one end being pointed and the other rounded. With the point of a very sharp knife cut into one surface about two- thirds through, starting at the pointed end about Jin. from Fig. 201. Bread Croustade the outer edge, and, holding R0R Truffles and other Tit i Savouries. the knife perpendicularly, cut round very exactly, observing precisely the same distance from the outside edge all the way. To ensure the knife not entering too deeply so as to endanger the bottom of the case, paste a strip of paper round the blade, so that the distance between the edge of the paper and point of the knife shall exactly represent the depth the knife is to cut. Before the centre is removed, put the croustades into boiling fat, or if for sweets into hot butter, until they are lightly browned; then take them out and drain them. With the point of the same knife the centres are next to be removed to the depth of the cut, and when sufficiently hollowed out the croustades may be filled. Dubois recommends these for serving stewed truffles. Bread Croustades for Stewed Fruit.—Many cooks like to exercise their ingenuity in carving out of stale Bread a variety of shaped croustades. An exceedingly sharp knife is of tho first importance, and then there is no end to the designs and purposes that may be accomplished. Fig. 202 gives an illus- tration of a croustade shaped like a box with a lid. Before hollowing at the centres, the croustades should either be fried in fat, if small enough to be submerged, or basted with oil and put in a quick oven to brown. Bread—continued.