45 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Apricots—continued. sugar, and mix with the whites of four eggs. Spread this mixture all over the marmalade, and bake in a hot oven to a nice golden-brown. When cold it maybe cut up, like Apricot Cakes, piled up, and served on a napkin or ornamental dish- paper. (2) Boll out some patten or puff paste very thin, lay it upon a baking-sheet by winding round the rolling-pin, lifting, and then unwinding, and spread over it some very good Apricot Jam. Roll out another piece of paste about the same size, and lay on top in the same manner. Then mix in a basin some chopped, blanched almonds with an equal amount of sugar, which should be sifted through a coarse sieve with the almonds, to ensure their both being in pieces of about the same size. Add the whipped white of an egg, mix well together, and spread over the top crust. Put this into a moderate oven to bake until done, and then allow it to stand until it is cold. Cut out into diamonds or oblongs, or stamp out with a fancy cutter. Serve on a dish-paper or neatly-folded napkin. Preserved Apricots.—Several methods of preparing this delicious fruit for keeping are described by various con- fectioners, all being more or less troublesome and expensive. Packing in strong, hot syrup, or drying by heat, are the methods usually recommended; but since the introduction to our markets of Apricots in tins, there is no longer any necessity for the cook to waste time or trouble over preserving them, seeing that those sold as “ tinned Apricots ” are far less expensive at all times, and always ready to hand. Suedoise of Apricots.—Put a little warmed Apricot Jelly at the bottom of a mould packed in ice, and let it set. In the meantime cut a dozen Apricots in halves and remove the stones, put them into a preserving-pan with sufficient syrup to cover them, and boil until quite tender. Take them out, let them get cold, and cut each half up into three strips; arrange these in the mould, commencing at the bottom, and continue all round the sides, dipping them in more of the warmed jelly to make them adhere to the sides. When they have set, pour in a little more jelly to cover the pieces at the bottom, place a small mould inside the large one, leaving about -jin. space all round, and fill the space up with more jelly, pouring it in carefully so as not to disturb the pieces of Apricot. When all is set and firm, pour a little warm water into the small mould to remove it. Cut three Apricots in halves, remove and break the stones, blanch the kernels, and put them with the Apricots into a saucepan with sufficient water to moisten them, and cook until they are soft. Add Joz. of dissolved gelatine, rub the whole through a fine sieve, and pour in 1 teacupful of cream; sweeten to taste. Pour this into the centre of the mould, and let it set. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Vol-au-Vents of Apricots.—Prepare a few vol-au-vents with some puff paste, and bake them in a quick oven for ten minutes or so. Take them out, sprinkle a little sugar in the inside, and melt it by holding a red-hot shovel or salamander over it. Pill them up with Apricot Jam or stewed Apricots, pile some whipped cream on the top, and serve. APRICOT WINS. — California is famous for its prolific growth of Apricots, which is so greatly in excess of ordinary requirements that many tons of them are annually converted into Wine, producing a rich-flavoured, clear, sparkling liquor. In less-favoured countries the yield of Apricots is not sufficiently large to warrant their use for this purpose. AQUA VITAS (literally, “water of life”).—An old name for Irish Whiskey. ARABIC.—See Gums. ARMADILLO.—The “little animals in armour” called Armadilloes are esteemed “ fine eating ” by the natives of South and Central America, but owing to the rank and strong flavour of the flesh, it is not much fancied by Europeans. Stewed or as toasted steaks would appear to be the favourite processes of cooking. ARMAGNAC.—An inferior quality of Brandy, known as Bas-Armagnac and Haut-Armagnac. ARNATTO.—See Annatto. AROMATIC SEASONING.—See Bouquets Gar- nis, Herbs, and Spices. ARRACACHA (Arrncacha esculenta).—A farinaceous root, about the size of a cow’s horn, which grows abun- dantly on the plains of Columbia, Jamaica, and other tropical regions. Arracacha roots have been grown in England ; but although it is reputed that a few which were planted near Plymouth tln'ived exceedingly, they do not appear to have made much progress in the ranks of our farinaceous vegetables. The root is culti- vated in South America, and when boiled, baked, or roasted like potatoes, is declared to be exceedingly palatable, having a flavour something between a parsnip and a sweet chestnut. ARRACK.—The natives of India and Ceylon distil a rough spirit, called Arrack, from the juice of the date, cocoa-nut, and other palms, rice, molasses, and probably from many other things also. It is not much used by Europeans, though some Anglo-Indian cooks make use of it occasionally for sauces, preserves, and punch. It is nearly colourless, but when kept a long time, gains a slight yellow tinge. The three best known varieties derive their names from Batavia, Madras, and China. The alcoholic strength of Arrack is uncertain, differing greatly not only in various kinds, but in successive productions from the same still. ARROPIA.—A Spanish cake made of flour, honey, and spice. ARROWROOT.— The delicate flavour of this starchy food renders it exceedingly grateful to invalids, and to those who have delicate stomachs. As a nutri- ment it ranks very low, but this is compensated for in a measure by its combination with eggs, milk, or cream, and its ready digestibility. Arrowroot is prepared from the root, or tuber, of the Maranta, a plant which grows in the West Indies and India to the height of some 2ft. or 3ft., and bears pretty spikes of small, white flowers Fig. 43. Tuber, Flowers, and Leaves of Arrowroot-plant. (see Fig. 43). It was called Arrowroot because it was at one time confounded with the root of another plant, with which the Indians used to poison their arrows. The process of manufacture is described thus: When