42 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PBACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Apricots—continued. spoon, through a strainer into the freezer, and mix in the syrup. Freeze, and when it is nearly set, whip the whites of two eggs to a firm froth; mix them in, and turn the freezer rapidly a short time longer. Cut up two or three very ripe Apricots, and stir them into the ice just before serving. Tinned Apricots can be used if fresh ones are not available; and if preserved in syrup, that will serve for mixing with them ; or the liquor can be made into syrup by boiling with a proper proportion of sugar. Apricot Ice Cream.—Put 8oz. of Apricot Jam into a basin or bowl, and mix in the strained juice of a lemon, half-a- dozen bitter almonds blanched and pounded, a liqueur-glassful of noyeau, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream. Work these well with a pestle or rolling-pin, rub the mixture through a fine sieve into the freezer, and when nearly set, put it into a mould packed in ice. Turn it out on to a dish when firm, and serve. Apricot Jam.—(1) Split, peel thin, and slice up as many Apricots as desired; break the stones, extract the kernels, scald them to remove the skins, and then add them to the fruit. Boil an equal weight of sugar in a pan, with pint of water to the pound, to the pearl degree (see Sugar-boiling), and throw in the fruit. Stir the whole as it boils for about twenty minutes, removing the scum as it rises. When the marmalade hangs in drops from the edge of the spoon it is sufficiently done. Pour into pots, and when cold, cover and tie down in the usual way. Some confectioners do not peel the Apricots; but the peels need not be wasted, as they make a nice little dish of preserve for family use. (2) Take some ripe Apricots, and place them in boiling water. After they have been in a short time, take them out, cut out the stones, and press the fruit through a hair sieve by working it through with a spoon-bowl. Make a syrup of lib. of preserving-sugar to lib. of the pulp, and whilst boiling throw in the pulp by degrees. Stir well as it boils, and then after a time the mixture will be found to adhere to the spoon like a jelly. Remove from the fire, and add the kernels of the Apricots, previously blanched and dried on a cloth. Store in jars in the usual way. (3) Cut 81b. of good Apricots in slices, and put them into a basin, with 51b. of pounded sugar and lqt. of water. Stir with a wooden spoon till the sugar is melted, and put the whole into the preserving-pan to boil for ten minutes, whilst continuously stirring, and skimming off the scum as it rises. To judge if the jam is done, take the skimmer out and cool what is on it, and this should feel greasy under the finger. Another mode of ascertaining when the jam is done is to pour a little into a cold plate: if it shows an inclination to set without running, it is made, and must be removed at once, as to leave it longer causes a waste of material. Pour the jam into pots, and cover as usual. Apricot Jelly.—Cut eighteen ripe, fleshy Apricots into slices and remove the stones. Put them into a basin, with the juice of three lemons. Have ready boiling pints of clarified syrup, pour it over the Apricots, cover the basin with a cloth, and let the contents cool. Then add to the syrup when half-cold lfoz. of isinglass, mix well in, and strain through a jelly-bag into a mould. The remainder of the Apricots make a very good, but inferior-looking, marmalade, or compote, for nursery use. Apricot Marmalade.—Select some Apricots quite ripe, stone, and pass them through a sieve; weigh 31b. of the Apricot puree, put it into a preserving-pan, and mix with it 21b. of crushed sugar. Set the pan over a fire or stove, and let the marmalade reduce slowly until it coats over the spoon, and falls in large drops from it. Add some of the kernels of the Apricots, blanched in hot water and dried, and pour it into jars, as for jams. Apricot Marmalade and Apricot Jam are virtually one and the same thing. Apricots with Noyeau Jelly.—Beat the whites of three eggs and put them in a stewpan, with 2oz. of gelatine, fib. of loaf sugar, the juice of one lemon, and lqt. of water. Whisk it over the fire till it boils. Boil some Apricots, cut in halves, in syrup; drain them, and crack the stones; blanch and peel the kernels, divide them in halves, and strew them in a plain cylinder mould with a little dissolved gelatine. Fill the mould alternately with layers of jelly and Apricots, cover it with a Apricots—continued. baking-sheet, imbed it in ice, with ice on the top, and let it freeze for two hours. When ready to serve, wipe the mould and turn the jelly out. Apricot Omelet.—Put the yolks of six eggs and the whites of four into a basin, sprinkle over them a small quantity of salt, and beat them well. Pour this into an omelet-pan with a little melted butter in it, and as soon as it is set turn it carefully out. Spread over as much Apricot Jam or Marmalade as required, fold the omelet up, put it on a dish, sprinkle over caster sugar, glaze it in the oven or with a salamander, and servo hot. *• Apricot Open Tart.—Proceed, as for Apple Pie No. 2, to trim an open-tart mould, spread sugar over the paste, and fill up the centre with halves of Apricots instead of apples. Sprinkle sugar freely over the fruit, and bake for half-an-hour or so, until done. Apricot “ Pain,” or Bread (as described by a celebrated Parisian confectioner).—Dissolve loz. of best isinglass in % pint of lukewarm water, and stir this into an equal quantity of Apricot Marmalade. Add to this the juice of an orange and 1 teaspoonful of orange flavouring, pass through a sieve, and stir upon ice until partly set. Fix a dome-shaped mould in broken ice, and put some of the Apricot mixture into it. When that is set, let down on to it, exactly in the centre, another mould of the same shape but much smaller, and let this inside mould be filled with pounded ice and salt. Pour the Apricot mixture all round this mould until it fills the space between the moulds up to the top. Let all set. Then remove the ice from the inner mould, and pour in a little water, so that by the difference of temperature it may loosen itself. Have ready some syrup flavoured with vanilla, and mix with it a little dissolved isinglass. Stir on ice until this mixture begins to thicken, and then introduce into it i pint of whipped cream, and some strawberries pre- served whole. Pour it into the hollow left by the removal of the inner mould; let it set, and as soon as it is quite firm, turn it out on to a dish. Apricot Paste.—Make a very firm Apricot Jam, pour it upon a clean baking-sheet, and put it in a very slow oven to dry. When set, stamp out or cut into any shapes, such as rings, rounds, ovals, leaves, lozenges, &c., and place on trays to be dried in the screen. Cover with paper to keep off the dust. A very low oven will do where a drying-screen is not available. The shapes when quite dry may be dusted with fine sugar, and packed in tin boxes for use when required. Apricot Pastille Drops.—Put jib. of coarsely-sifted, crushed loaf sugar into a small, spouted, and round-bottomed sugar- boiler, and place it on a sheet of wrought iron prepared for this purpose, having a hole about 6in. in diameter cut in the centre, so as to reduce the heat, and only allow the bottom part of the sugar-boiler to be exposed to the fire. Stir well for two minutes with a wooden spoon until the sugar begins to dissolve at the bottom, and then with a piece of bent wire cut off lumps as big as peas as the mixture runs out of the spout, letting them fall gently in close rows upon sheets of stiff paper. Let them remain until they are quite firm and set. Turn the paper over, damp it, and the pastilles will fall from it on to a dry sieve. Roll them in this gently over a slow fire to dry them, put them into jars or bottles, well stoppered to exclude the air, place them in a dry, cool place, and let them remain until wanted. Apricot Pie.—(1) English Fashion .—Take an ordinary pie-dish, and make sufficient tart paste, according to the sized tart you propose making. Lay closely pressed round the border of the dish (previously wetted) a band of paste, 3in. wide and £in. thick. Within the dish arrange a sufficient quantity of halves of Apricots to fill it—unripe fruit will do for these pies—1 teacupful of sugar, and 2oz. or 3oz. of butter. Roll out some more paste to make a crust, and having wetted the band with a paste-brush, cover with the sheet of paste prepared for the purpose. Press the edges down, trim off with an upright knife, and notch round with the back of the knife, or ornament in any other way. Brush over the top of the pie with white of egg, and strew finely-broken sugar over. Bake for a hour-and-a-quarter, and serve hot. If to be served cold, the butter is better omitted.