27 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respectin'/ Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Apples—continued. Apple Butter. The first part of the business is to pare, quarter, and core as many cooking Apples as may bo deemed necessary. Whilst this is going on, let a quantity of new clear cider be boiled down to about half in a large pan or galvanised copper; put in the Apples to fill the boiler, and let the lot be continually stirred by relays of friends. By boiling some considerable time, the mass becomes as thick as hasty pudding. At this stage throw in a quantity of finely-powdered allspice, and after that is well stirred about, the Butter is ready for putting into pots for preservation, and will keep for years if well secured by covering. Eaten as a preserve. Apple Cake.—(1) This is a very delicious dish when well made. Bub jib. of fresh butter into jib. of best flour mixed with jib. of caster sugar, the grated rind of one lemon, and make into a paste with water. Divide into halves, and roll out one half into a round about lOin. in diameter, and cover this flat, lin. from the edge, with slices of peeled cooking Apples; strew over a few well-washed currants, sugar to sweeten, and a little ground cinnamon. With the other half of the paste make a trellis-work and ornamental border, and wash over with an egg. Bake in a cake-hoop. (2) The Germans make a very nice Apple Cake thus: Peel, core, and mince a few good cooking Apples, and put them into a stewpan with jib. of warm butter; when very hot, remove them, and allow them to cool. Put jib. of flour into a large basin, and mix to a thick cream with cold milk; beat in four or five whole eggs ; whip well, and pass through a sieve, adding afterwards 3 piled table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a little orange flavouring, and j teaspoonful of salt. Mix this and the Apples together, pour into a well-buttered, large, flat baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. When set and dry, sprinkle over powdered sugar to glaze it, and put it back into the oven till done. Bemove, cut into long squares, and serve on a folded napkin. (3) Take sufficient dough or good tart paste, roll out to about jin., and lay on a greased, flat baking-sheet, turning up the edges a little. Peel, core and cut into eighths sufficient cooking Apples, and arrange these in rows like horses (a cheval) by pressing the thin edge slightly into the paste. Sprinkle over thickly with caster sugar, flavoured with finely-powdered cinnamon or orange flavouring, set in a quick oven, and bake until done; then remove, and cut into squares for the table; sprinkle over more sugar before serving. These are delicious eaten hot as a tea-cake, or with lemon sauce as a pudding, or cold. When baker’s dough is used, it will require thoroughly kneading, and setting to rise; butter and sugar must be worked in during the kneading. To lib. of dough about 4oz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar will bo sufficient for the paste. (4) Pare and slice ljlb. of cooking Apples, and put them in a stewpan with 1 breakfast-cupful of raw sugar, 1 teacupful of water, and the rind and juice of one lemon. When the Apples have stewed till quite tender, rub all through a fine hair sieve ; mix with them loz. of gelatine that has previously been dissolved in a little water. Take 1 teacupful of the above preparation, colour it with a few drops of cochineal, pour it into a well-oiled mould, and leave it till set; then pour in the rest. Great care must be taken that the cake is quite firm before it is turned out of the mould. When served, a custard or some whipped cream eaten with it is a great addition. Apple Charlotte.—This is one of those dainty and tasty dishes which so well repay any amount of trouble taken in preparing them. Every cook has a special receipt, these differing more in the shapes and ornamentation than in the materials or mode of preparation. To begin with, take a large loaf of stale bread, and after removing all the crusts, with a very sharp knife cut up the crumb into slices about j in. thick, and these slices again into shapes, such as hearts, long triangles, thin squares, rounds, and slips, or fingers, as they are called; the shape to be cut out depending upon the style of ornamental arrange- ment desired. Cut out a round ljin. in diameter, and lay in the centre of the bottom of a round tin mould then shape out several hearts, large enough for the points to rest on the round disc, whilst their rounded ends touch the sides of the mould. Next cut some of the slices of bread into long rect- angular strips, and set them round the side of the mould, standing upright, resting on the round ends of the hearts, and overlapping each other. Dip each piece of bread in warmed Apples—continued. butter before setting in the mould. Have ready some thick Apple Marmalade prepared thus: Peel and core about eighteen Apples, and cut them in slices. Put them into a stewpan with fib. caster sugar, the peel (cut thin) of half a lemon, and a bit of cinnamon, tied together. Moisten with rather less than j pint of water. Put these ingredients upon the stove to boil, and then let them simmer until the Apples fall. Bemove from the stove, take out the lemon-peel and cinnamon, and stir briskly with a wooden spoon until the marmalade is of a stiff consistency. Pour this into the bread-lined mould, and cover the top with a slice of bread dipped in the warmed butter, and cut to fit the mould. Put the charlotte into a brisk oven, and bake until the bread is a golden-brown. Turn out on to a dish and sprinkle caster sugar over it, and then glaze it with a very hot salamander, and pour apricot marmalade or apricot puree round the dish; or, instead of the glazed sugar, cover the charlotte over with apricot marmalade. The bread may be cut into any other fanciful shapes, such as may suggest themselves to the artistic cook. Apple Chartreuse.—This dish owes its origin to the inventive genius of Ude, and has been somewhat simplified by Soyer. In any case it is a troublesome sweetmeat to prepare, but fully repays the artist for the pains taken. Cut off the tops and bottoms of twenty small Busset Apples, and then with a long, round vegetable-cutter (like a tube or cheese-taster) bore out as many pieces as you can of about lin. in length. The cutter should be not much thicker than a quill. Have ready in a stewpan on the fire a strong syrup made from jib. of sugar dissolved in j pint of water, with the juice of a lemon added. When the syrup is ready, throw in half the pieces of Apple, and stow them until tender, but not to break ; take them out, and lay them out upon a hair sieve. Put the other half of the Apples into the syrup, and stew them until nearly done ; then add a little essence of cochineal, and stew a minute or so longer. Take them out, and lay them on the sieve till cold. Oil lightly a plain round mould, cut some pieces of crystallised angelica, and form a star with them at the bottom of the mould, and a fancy border round the edge. Now take the white pieces of Apple, and stand them slantingly in a row all round the mould, one leaning upon the other. Above this place a row of the red pieces in the same manner, and so on alternately until the rows reach the top. Before you com- mence to dress the mould in this way, you should make a marmalade of about a dozen-and-a-half Apples diced—the fragments of the pierced slices may be added to the others, in which case less than eighteen will be required. Put them into a preserving-pan with jib. of sugar, the juice of a lemon, a small piece of butter, a little powdered cinnamon, and a small liqueur glass of rum; keep them over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally until they form a thick marmalade. Put them into a basin to cool. You can then fill up the Chartreuse, prepared as before described; and when ready to serve, turn out on a glass or silver dish. Garnish with little bits of red-currant jelly or preserved cherries, and pour a little white syrup, reserved from the first boiling of the Apples, over all. Apple Cheese.—Pare and core a quantity of Apples, put some into a saucepan with sufficient cider to cover them, and boil until they are quite tender. The cider should be previously boiled and reduced one-third—that is, 3qts. boiled down to 2qts. Take out the Apples carefully, strain- ing off all the liquor from them ; then put in another lot of Apples to the cider, and continue in this way until the 2qts. are absorbed. Put the Apples into an earthenware vessel, and let them remain for ten or twelve hours; then put them into a preserving-pan and boil them until they are of the consistence of porridge and of a rich golden colour. "When done, turn it back into the earthenware jar until wanted for use. Apple Cheesecakes.—Put a dozen large pared and cored Apples into a saucepan with a little water, and boil to a pulp. Beat with a spoon, and add the juice and grated rind of two lemons, the yolks of six eggs, sufficient sugar to taste, and lastly, jib. of butter warmed and beaten to a cream. Have ready some small patty- or tartlet-pans, lined with rich puff paste; put the mixture in them, and bake for from fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn them out on to a dish, and serve.