30 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads Apples—co ntinued. minutes, the fat not too hot at first: they should be crisp and of a nice golden colour. Serve piled on a napkin, with caster sugar sifted over each. A la Due d’Orleans.—Pare and core a dozen or so Apples, cut them in halves, put in a saucepan with suffi- cient syrup to cover them, and cook until quite tender. Take them out and drain on a strainer until quite cold. Eoll out some brioche paste, cut or divide it into as many rounds as there are Apples, put an Apple on each, fold the paste over, securely fastening the edges, and plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard. Take them out when done, drain on a cloth, put on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Apple Ginger.—Take 41b. each of Apples and sugar. Make a syrup of the sugar, adding 1 pint of water. Chop the Apples very fine, with loz. of green ginger; or if you cannot get the green ginger, use the dried. Put this mince into the syrup with the grated rind of four lemons, and boil slowly for two hours—that is, until it looks clear. Apple Hedgehog.—Put Jib. of sugar into a saucepan with a breakfast-cupful of water, and convert it into syrup; add a dozen-and-a-half of large Apples, pared and cored, set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until they are quite tender. Take them out, drain off all the syrup, fill the cavity of the core with strawberry or apricot jam, and arrange on a dish in the form of a hedgehog. Pare and core about 51b. of sweet cooking Apples, put them in a saucepan with a little water, and boil to a pulp ; pour this over the Apples on the dish, covering them with it, and carefully filling up all the holes. Put 3oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar into a bowl with the whites of three eggs, and whip them to a stiff froth; spread this over the Apples, dusting the whole over with caster sugar. Cut Jib. of blanched sweet almonds into tiny narrow strips, stick them over the hedgehog to represent the bristles, and set the dish in a slack oven for a few minutes to slightly colour the almonds and heat the Apples. Take it out, and serve. Apple Ice.—Cut fifteen good cooking Apples into quarters, peel them, put them into a stewpan, with J pint of water, half a stick of vanilla, and 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Boil this on a quick fire, keeping the stewpan covered; then pass it through a fine sieve. Dilute this puree with 2 wineglassfuls of syrup at 30deg. (see Syrups), and add the juices of three oranges and three lemons, with 10 drops of essence of lemon. Put into a freezer to solidify. Apple Jam.—(1) Pare and core some good Apples, cut them into small pieces, and place them in a preserving-pan, with sufficient water to cover them. Boil them until they are reduced to a pulp, then pass through a hair sieve. To lib. of pulp add 12oz. of preserving-sugar, boil and skim till no more scum rises, then put into pots. When cold, cover with paper soaked in brandy and cut to fit the inside of the pots. Tie over with paper in the usual way. (2) Pare and core the Apples, and cut them up small. Allow lib. of preserving-sugar to lib. of fruit. Put the fruit and a quarter of the sugar into a preserving-pan, adding sufficient water to cover the fruit. When boiling, add another quarter of the sugar; boil again, add more sugar, and when all is used let the jam boil till it hardens on the spoon. Cooking in only a little sugar at a time prevents the fruit from getting hard. A little mixed spice added is an improvement. Apple Jelly.—(1) Pare and core some good Apples, and slice them into a preserving-pan, with enough water to cover them. Put the pan on the fire, and boil the Apples until they are reduced to a mash. Pour the mixture into a flannel bag, so that the liquid can drain off. For each pound of filtered Apple-juice take 12oz. of sugar, boil it, and remove any scum that may rise. When sufficiently boiled, the syrup should cling to the wooden spoon ; or a little dropped on a cold plate sets soon. Put in pots and tie down as for jam. (2) Take 61b. of sound Apples, peel, core, and slice them thin, and put them in a preserving-pan to boil, with 2qts. of water. When the Apples are reduced to a pulp, drain them on a hair sieve and press out the juice into a basin. Weigh the juice, and to every pound of it add lOoz. of loaf sugar. (The Apple which remains on the sieve may be used for marmalade.) Put the jelly and sugar into the pan again, set over the stove, and when all the sugar is melted, pass the jelly through a Apples—continued. tammy, and boil it up again, keeping it on the simmer, until it will set on a cold plate. Then put into jars to preserve. Apple Johnny Cake.— This is an American cake held in great esteem. It is made with 1 pint of flour, mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, J teaspoonful of salt, J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and milk enough to make quite soft. Three Apples, pared, cored, and sliced up small, are worked in, and the mass is put into a shallow cake-pan, and baked for about half-an-hour. Powdered sugar, sifted over the top before removing from the oven, is a pleasing embellishment. Apple Manger.—Stew 31b. of Pippins, or other good cooking Apples, with 1J pints of water and 31b. of sugar; just before they are done, add a few drops of lemon-juice. Mash well. If put in moulds or jam jars before cooling, it will keep, if necessary, for a long time. Turned out and sliced, it is delicious at tea. Quinces treated in this way are very nice, and may be mixed with Apples if desired. Apple Marmalade.—A variety of receipts are given for making Apple Marmalade, used in preparing dishes of different kinds. (1) Take a dozen good cooking Apples, and cut them into quarters. Core and peel them, and put them in a stewpan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of water and 6oz. of powdered sugar. Put them over a slow stove until they fall to a pulp; then reduce by simmering until the marmalade clings to the spoon. Cool, and dish up in a compote-dish, or put in jars to keep. If required for immediate use, sprinkle some caster sugar over the top, and glaze by passing a red-hot salamander over it to melt the sugar. (2) Some confectioners stew the Apples with water, and then pass the pulp through a sieve, making a puree. This they pour into a stewpan, with two-thirds of its volume of fine sugar and a little lemon-peel cut thin, putting it back on the fire again to reduce it, stirring slowly with a spoon. When it will set jelly- like on a cold plate, the lemon-peel should be removed, and the whole poured on to a glass dish for immediate use. Smooth the top with the blade of a knife, sprinkle some caster sugar over, and glaze it with the aid of an iron skewer made red-hot in the fire. With this skewer the surface can be ornamented by forming a little rosette. Surround the dish with soft biscuits, cut into triangular shape. Apple Meringo or Meringue.—There are several methods of preparing this pretty dish, some of which are, to all appearance, exceedingly elaborate, but, like a Chinese puzzle, simple enough when understood. (1) Core and pare seven large Apples, and bake on a shallow plate till soft, but not broken. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-powdered sugar, a little salt, and 1 pint of scalded milk. Pour this over the baked Apples, which may be piled in a pyramid. Bake these till the custard is firm, and then take it out of the oven and allow it to cool. Make a meringue of the whites of the three eggs by beating them till foamy, gradually adding 3 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar and a little lemon flavouring, and beat till quite stiff. Place this over the Apples with a spoon, and then set in the oven to brown. (2) Pare and core the Apples as in the former case, and fill the cavity with sugar and mixed spice, or with sugar, butter, and grated lemon-peel. Bake, and cover with meringue prepared as in No. 1. Make the yolks into a boiled custard for a sauce; or the dish may be served with cream. Brown the meringue by holding a hot stove-cover or salamander over it, and serve hot or cold. (3) Stew the Apples until well done and smooth. Sweeten to taste, and add the rind of a grated lemon. Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth; add to them 1 teacupful of powdered sugar, a little rose-water, the juice of a lemon, or any flavouring preferred. Put the fruit into a flat dish, and put the egg mixture on with a spoon. Set in the oven for a few minutes to brown. Add a little butter to the Apples while hot. (4) Pare and cut up two Apples, put them into a saucepan, with a teaspoonful of butter and a table-spoonful of sugar, and let them boil to a marmalade, which spread on a small, flat dish. While this is cooling, beat the whites of three eggs to a firm froth with 4 table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar. When quite stiff, with two dessert-spoons shape this froth into egg-shaped lumps, which you must jdace side by side over