THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 83 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d'c., referred to, see under their special heads. Bass—continued. deserving of a cook’s notice. It is more correctly known as the European. Sea-Bass (Labrax lupus) (Fig. 88). The Striped Bass of America (L. lineatus) is the famous Rock-fish; the White Bass or Lake Perch (L. albidus) (Fig. 89), the Ruddy Bass of the coast Fig. 88. Sea-Bass, or Sea-Wolf. (L. rufus), the White Perch (L. pallidus), the Canadian Black Bass (Grystes nigricans) (Fig. 90), the Little Black Bass (L. nigricans), the Spotted Bass of the St. Lawrence River (Grystes notatus), the Stone Bass (Fig. 91), and several others, are pronounced by epicures to be more exquisite than salmon. They are all sold under the general name of Bass. The Bass is essentially a sea-fish, hut is sometimes taken in rivers as well as along the coast. It has been caught weighing as much as 101b. or 151b., but commonly ranges from Mb. to 61b. or 71b. It makes a very handsome dish, the body being well shaped, round, and fleshy, and it is in season nearly all the year round, but at its best in March, April, and May. Striped Bass, or Rock-Fish. — This fish is found in the American waters, and ranges from Mb. to 801b. or 1001b. in weight. The smaller sized are cooked as for Sea-Bass, and are better eating than the larger, which must be cut up in slices before they can be cooked. The mode generally advocated for cooking Bass is to boil it in a good fish stock, or it may be boiled plain in salted water, or baked, or braised in wine. If boiled, oyster sauce should be served with it; if braised, a good veloute, reduced with the stock in which the fish has been boiled; if baked or broiled, a good maitre-d’hotel sauce is the best. Garnished with parsley and crayfish, it presents a handsome dish. Baked Bass.—(1) Wash, scale, and clean a Bass, and leave the head intact if it is to be sent to the table whole. Mako a stuffing of 2 breakfast-cupfuls of bread- crumbs, 1 toacupful of butter, the rind of a quarter of a lemon minced fine, and two or three sprigs each of parsley, green thyme, and marjoram. Season this mixture with pepper and salt. Beat up two eggs, 1 table-spoonful of water, and mix the stuffing with it. Fill in the fish, and sew np when stuffed. Score both sides with a sharp knife by cutting down to the bone, and put a thin slice of salt pork into each incision. Bake in a pan, and baste with stock and seasoning. Thirty or forty minutes will cook the fish, according to size. Put a little tomato pur^e or tomato sauce into the pan with the Bass—continued. gravy after removing the fish, and lot this boil up; then skim and strain, to serve in a tureen with the fish. The greatest care must be taken not to break the fish in trans- ferring it from the pan to the dish. An ornamental dish- paper should lie under the fish, and sprays of parsley, with prawns or crayfish prettily arranged, will complete the dressing. A glass of white wine added to each £ pint of sauce is considered an improvement. (2) Lay a well-cleaned Bass, weighing about 31b., on a buttered baking-dish; season with £ pinch of salt and £ pirch of pepper, and moisten with £ wineglassful of white wine, and 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor. Cover with a heavy piece of buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes; then lay the fish on a dish. Pour the liquor into a saucepan, with £ pint of good German sauce, thicken with 1 table-spoonful of butter, toss the pan until well dissolved, pour it over the Bass, and serve with six croutons of fried bread cut in any desired shape. Baked Bass d la Bordelaise.—Cut a deep incision down the back of a 31b. Sea-Bass; put it in a baking-dish with £ wineglassful of red wine, £ pinch of salt, and £ pinch of pepper. Sprinkle over a finely-chopped shallot, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes; then lay the Bass on a dish. Put the liquor in a saucepan with 1 gill of Spanish sauce, four finely-shredded mushrooms, a thin slice of finely-chopped garlic, and cook for five minutes longer. Pour it over the fish, garnish with six cooked crayfish or shrimps, and serve very hot. Bass d la Chambord.—Lift the middle skin from the back of a 31b. Bass, leaving the head and tail covered; lard the fish with a very small larding-needle, and lay it on a buttered, deep haking-pan, adding to it £ wineglassful of white wine, ha,If a carrot, half an onion, both sliced, and a bouquet garni. Season with 1 pinch of salt and £ pinch of popper. Cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for thirty minutes, being very careful to baste it frequently; then take out the fish, and lay it on a dish. Strain the gravy into a saucepan, with £ pint of Chambord garnishing, moistened with £ pint of Spanish sauce, and reduce for five minutes. Decorate the dish with clusters of the gar- nishing, three decorated fish quenelles, and three small, cooked crayfish, and serve with the sauce poured over. Bass Dressed en Casserole. — Scale and clean a Bass, wash it well, and drain it. In the meantime prepare a stuffing of butter well rolled in flour, finely-chopped sweet herbs, M & N 2