92 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Beans—continued. out the meat, turn the Beans into a sieve, and pour over several quarts of cold water. Put half of them into a deep earthenware pot, called a Bean-pot, place the meat on them, scoring the rind of pork if it is used, and cover over with the remainder of the Beans. Add 1 teaspoonful of mustard and 1 table-spoonful of molasses mixed in a little water, and pour over sufficient boiling water to cover the Beans. Put the pot into a moderate oven, and bake slowly for ten hours, adding a little water occasionally as required. When done, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Boiled Haricot Beans.—(1) Soak the Beans required in cold water all night; then put them in cold water with salt enough to cover them, and let them simmer until they are tender, which may be some two hours or more. Strain off the water, and leave them to steam until wanted. Serve hot with parsley and butter. The water in which the Beans were boiled makes good soup. Or they may be put into a large earthenware jar and seasoned with pepper and salt, with sufficient water added to cover them. A few slices of fat bacon on the Beans is very much liked by some. Bake three hours in a fairly hot oven. (2) Boil as above (No. 1) till quite tender, then drain, and put them at once into a stewpan, with some fresh butter, chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a little lemon-juice; toss them well, and serve very hot. Boiled Haricot Beans with Capsicum Butter.—Put the required quantity of Beans into a saucepan of water over the fire, and boil them. When they are done, take them out, drain, and put them into another saucepan with some cap- sicum butter, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. When done, put them on a dish, and serve. Fricassee of White Haricot Beans.—Blanch and skin lqt. of freshly-gathered White Kidney Beans, put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water or veal broth, and add a small bunch of sweet herbs, a little each of mace, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and 1 wineglassful of white wine. Cover over the saucepan, and cook gently for fifteen minutes; then remove the bunch of sweet herbs, and add a small lump of butter kneaded with flour, tossing it about in the pan until it is dissolved and the liquor thick. Put the yolks of two eggs in a basin, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and beat well together; add them to the saucepan, and shake it in one direction until the liquor is quite thick and smooth. Remove the pan from the fire, add the juice of half a lemon, turn the fricassee on to a hot dish, and serve. If dried Beans are used, they must be soaked in salted water for ten or twelve hours, and then boiled until they are tender, when the skins will easily come off. Fried Haricot Beans. -— Cold Beans are nice warmed up in the following manner: Put 1 breakfast-cupful of dripping into a stewpan, and let it heat to a froth; then put in some of the Beans, with a very little chopped sage, and toss them about with a wooden spoon till they are a pale gold colour. Remove them from the fat, and put to warm whilst more are cooking; let them all drain for a minute or two, adding pepper and salt to taste, and serve hot. Haricot Beans and Boiled Pork. — Take a suitable piece of salt pork, score the skin, and boil for half-an-hour. To each pound of meat take lqt. of Beans that have been soaked over night in soft water. Put them on to boil in cold water, and when they are soft drain off the water thoroughly, and having set the pork in a deep dish on a layer of the Beans, cover it nearly over with the remainder, adding 1 breakfast-cupful of warm water. Bake a nice brown. A dessert-spoonful of moist sugar mixed with the Beans before placing them in the dish, is considered by many to be a genuine improvement. Haricot Beaus a la Maxtre d’Hotel.—For this dish it is best to have the Beans fresh shelled, of which about lqt. will be sufficient for a dish. Boil 3qts. of water, with 3 pinches of salt, in a gallon stewpan; when boiling, throw in the Beans, and simmer gently for two or three hours, or until they are done — which can be ascertained by pressing one between the fingers, when it should crush easily. Drain them, and put them back into the emptied stewpan. Mix ioz. of flour with loz. of butter to a smooth paste, divide it in small pieces, and add these to the Beans, with 1 salt- Beans—continued. spoonful of salt, 1 pinch of pepper, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and .j teacupful of the liquor in which the Beans have been boiled. Toss the Beans till the stock thickens, and then serve hot. Haricot Beans and Marrow.—Put the required quantity of -Haricot Beans into a saucepan of salted water over the fire, and boil them. Take them out, drain, put them into a saucepan with some beef-marrow, warm all together, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and add a little lemon-juice. Turn the mixture out on to a dish, and serve. Haricot-Bean Omelet.—Wash and prepare 1 pint of Haricot Beans by steeping them in slightly-salted water for six or eight hours. Put them into a saucepan of water and boil them until perfectly soft; take them out, mash them up with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and rub the whole through a fine sieve into a basin. Mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of finely- sifted breadcrumbs, the yolks and whites of eight eggs beaten separately, 2 table-spoonfuls of dissolved butter, loz. of minced parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Turn the omelet, when well mixed, into a buttered pan, and bake in a moderately hot oven for from three-quarters-of-an-hour to an hour. Serve on a hot dish, with sharp brown sauce in a sauceboat. Haricot Beans Panaches a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Put £ pint each of Haricot and French Beans into separate saucepans of water, and boil them until they are tender. Put 2oz. of butter into a frying-pan, melt it, drain the Beans, and put them in ; toss the pan until they are well mixed and quite hot, then turn them out on to a dish, and serve with fried bread for garnish. Haricot-Bean Porridge.—Put 1 pint of dry white Beans into a basin of water, and soak them for ten or twelve hours. Drain off the water, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, add a small quantity of bicarbonate of soda, and boil until they are soft. Put 51b. of corned beef— not too salt—or 41b. of beef and lib. of salted pork, into a saucepan of water, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for five or six hours, or until the meat is quite done and tender. Take out the meat, cut it up in pieces about 2in. square, removing all the bone, skin, and gristle; skim the liquor, put the meat and drained Beans into it, set the saucepan back on the side of the fire, and simmer for three or four hours longer, by which time nearly all the Beans should have broken. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of corn-flour into a basin, make it into a smooth paste with water, stir it into the saucepan with the Beans, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and simmer for half-an-hour longer, by which time the liquor should be quite thick, and the meat will easily fall apart. Add 1 pint of hulled corn, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with slices of brown bread. Haricot-Beau Puree for Soup.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of dried Beans into a saucepan of water with a small lump of bicarbonate of soda, and boil them until they are perfectly soft. Rub them through a fine sieve into a saucepan, pour in gradually 4gall, of good stock, and stir well. Add 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped onion, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for from fifteen to twenty minutes. Add a little seasoning of well-minced red pepper and salt, and 1 teaspoonful of made mustard mixed in with 1 table-spoonful of thickening; sprinkle over a little chopped parsley when the soup is in the tureen, and serve with crusts of bread or toast. Haricot-Bean Soup.—(1) Put 3qts. of soup stock into a sauce- pan with 1 breakfast-cupful or more of vegetables, such as onions, carrots, and turnips, cut up very small, having the onion in excess; add also 3 breakfast-cupfuls of cooked Haricot Beans, and boil for half-an-hour. Add 1 table-spoonful of flour, wet with water, sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and a little chopped parsley. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Haricot Beans into a bowl of cold water and let them soak for ton or twelve hours. Put them into a saucepan with three times the quantity of water, and add a sprig or two of parsley, a little whole pepper, salt to taste, a bay-leaf, an onion stuck with three cloves, and a head of celery. Boil slowly until the Beans are done, strain off the liquor, and rub the remainder through a fine sieve