THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 32 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their svecial heads. Apples—continued. 2 table-spoonfuls of celery seed. It requires no straining, but should be rubbed through a coarse sieve. See Spiced Apples and Pickles. Apple Pies.—If there is more than one way of killing a pig, most decidedly there is more than one way of making an Apple pie or pudding. Every country has its characteristic style, and so has every county in this country. This being the case, we have selected those which are simplest, and therefore the more likely to give satisfaction. Small Pies.—(1) Either take a good puff paste, or rub ilb. of butter into lib. of fine flour until they are evenly mixed right through; then pour cold water in the middle, add a little salt, and stir up with two fingers, drawing in the flour gradually. Spread some of the flour on the table, and pat the paste into a smooth mass in it; roll out the paste once, fold it up like doubling up a napkin, and it is ready for use. Cover each patty-pan with a layer of paste rolled thin. Peel two good Apples, slice them off the cores into the pie, cover with another crust, cut off the edges by pressing with both hands against the patty-pan, turning it round at the same time. Bake in a slack oven until the Apples are done—from fifteen to thirty minutes. Some persons add grated nutmeg or cinnamon to the Apples, dredge a little flour over them, and add sugar before putting on the top crust. A little sugar dusted over the top after they are baked improves their appearance. (2) Pare, core, and slice thin across the core-hole, making rings, some of the best cooking Apples procurable. Line some patty-pans as in No. 1, and fill with about two layers of slices. Sprinkle moist sugar and grated nutmeg over the Apples, and put in each a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and 1 table- spoonful of cold water. Bake without a top crust slowly and dry. The Apples soon become transparent, and half-candied. Large Pies.—(1) Make a good puff paste, and lay some round the sides and bottom of a pie-dish, whilst the pared and cut Apples are stewing. Put in a thick layer of Apples, throw in half the sugar you destine for the pie, grate a little orange-peel on to it; squeeze out over them a little of the orange-juice, add a few cloves, and then put in the rest of the Apples and sugar. Boil the peelings and cores of the Apples with a blade of mace; strain, and boil this liquor with a little sugar till there is but very little left, then pouring it into the pie. Put on the upper crust, and bake. The quantity of sugar put on the Apples depends upon taste and the quality of the fruit. (2) Put a good tart crust (see Pastes) over the bottom of a dish. Spread on this layers of sliced Apples, previously peeled and cored, and powdered sugar alternately until the dish is filled. Add a few cloves, and a few teaspoonfuls of rose-water if you have it handy. Put on the top crust after wetting the edges of the under-crust with a paste-brush, and press together. Ornament the edge with a fork, or other stamp; stick a knife in the centre to let out the steam, and bake in a moderate oven. (3) Core, pare, and mince some good Apples, and then stew them till thoroughly done. Bub through a sieve or colander, and sweeten with powdered sugar. Whip 1 teacupful of cream and the whites of three eggs with 1 pint of Apple, and beat all together. Spread this upon crusts of puff paste on shallow tin patty-pans. Grate nutmeg over each, and bake. Pile them on a dish, and serve with good custard. (4) Core, pare, and slice as many Apples as may be required. Make a little thick syrup of white sugar, into which throw a few cloves, allspice, or mace, and scald a few of the Apples at a time in this syrup, taking them out in a short time, and putting more in till all are partly cooked. Set them aside to cool, and put into deep patty-pans lined with tart-paste. Dredge with flour, put bits of butter over all, then dredge again, cover with paste, and bake. A wineglassful of wine or brandy added to the Apples will improve the pies ex- ceedingly. (5) Peel about two dozen good Apples, cut them into quarters, and remove the cores. Put them into a pie-dish, with a good handful of sugar, six or eight cloves, the zest of a lemon, and 1 gill of water. Line round the edge of the dish with tart- paste rolled rather thin, wet the edge with water, cover over the top with some more tart-paste, and trim round the edge, notching with the back of a knife. A very pretty further ornamentation can be made by putting on the top in some Apples—continu ed. order a number of paste leaves. These paste leaves are made by cutting a long strip of paste, say lin. wide, into diamonds, and marking these diamonds with the back of the knife. To lay the paste evenly over the top of the pie, first roll it round the rolling-pin, and then unroll it as you lay it over. German Style.—Boil Apples (cored, pared, and cut into quarters) in as little water as possible, with a glass of red wine, some sugar, and lemon-peel. When cold, put them into a pie-dish that has been well smeared with butter. Stir 1 table- spoonful of warm butter into 1 gill of cream, and add nine eggs, |lh. of flour, 1 pint of cream, and lib. of sugar. Take care to rub the flour in smoothly little by little. When this is all thoroughly mixed together, pour it over the Apples, and bake. Apple Porcupine.—(1) This is an ornamental dish, and, although simple enough to prepare, always gives pleasure and satisfaction. Make a stiff Apple Marmalade with a dozen or so of Apples, and put into a compote-case, spreading a little boiled custard over the top. Make a stiff meringue as follows: Beat up the whites of two eggs until they are very stiff, and then add gently -£lb. of castor sugar. Spread this smoothly over the Apple. Shred lengthwise jib. of blanched Jordan almonds, and stick them all over the Porcupine in imitation of the quills of the animal. The head and feet may be shaped out of angelica. Put into an oven to bake a nice fawn-colour. To complete the figure, after removing from the oven, when cold make two dents where the eyes should be, and drop in a little jelly from the Apples, and in the centre of each drop of jelly stick a currant. The compote- case should not be more than 2in. high. To finish, draw red-currant jelly down the back between the rows of almonds. (2) A variety of the preceding dish is made, so far as the body is concerned, of Apples baked in the following syrup : 1 breakfast-cupful each of powdered sugar and water, and a slip of stick cinnamon. Boil slowly for ten minutes, skimming well. Core and pare eight or ten good Apples, and cook in the syrup until nearly done. Drain, and set them in a quick oven for a few minutes. Boil the syrup to almost a jelly Arrange the Apples conveniently to form the body of the Porcupine, and fill up the interstices with quince jelly. Make a thick meringue, as above, and spread over, sticking long shreds of blanched almonds to resemble quills. Set in the oven to bake a fawn colour, and serve with boiled custard. Apples a la Fortugaise (Portuguese style).—Take a dozen fine cooking Apples, and see that they are perfectly sound. Core and pare them, and then boil in a thin syrup until they are just done. Make a very white marmalade with other Apples, and put on a dish, levelling smooth with a knife. Having drained the Apples until no syrup remains upon them, set them round the dish at equal distances, and in such a manner that they may be more elevated towards the centre. In the cavity of each Apple place a preserved cherry. If you have any apricot marmalade (generally called apricot jam), you may use it freely to decorate this very nice entremet, or anything else that fancy or ingenuity may dictate. Apple (flavoured) Posset.—See Possets. Apples a la Princess of Wales.—Core and peel about eighteen good-sized Apples, and cut them into slices. Put these into a stewpan, with 1 pint of water, the rind of a lemon, six cloves, and 6oz. of caster sugar. Boil well, and when reduced a little add loz. of gelatine, and pass the lot through a tammy sieve. Divide this puree, and colour one-half with cochineal strong enough to make it a handsome red; then add to the other half a little cream, to make it whiter. Put these two upon some ice, or in a very cool place, to set; and when firm enough, stamp out pieces of the size of shillings, or a little larger, and arrange alternately round a plain charlotte mould with sufficient lemon-jelly to make them adhere to the sides. Dissolve what you have left of the two Apple purees, keeping them separate, and pour into the mould a layer of each until it is filled, taking the greatest care that one layer shall set before the other is laid on. When thoroughly set, turn out on to a dish with a fancy paper on it, by dipping the mould into hot water and then in- verting it. Put upon the top a ball of whipped cream mixed with chopped pistachio nuts. As this dish requires some time to prepare, it should be got ready the day before it is wanted. Its solidity and firmness will depend upon the temperature