THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 11 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heaas. Almonds—continued. well set, take out the sticks, and put in their places strips of angelica (see Fig. 13), fixing these in by dipping the end first in the prepared icing, and pushing into the hole from which the piece of stick has been removed. Almond. Cheese-cakes.—(1) Take 4oz. of Sweet Almonds and six Bitter Almonds, blanch, and pound them in a mortar, adding a few drops of water to prevent them from oiling. Put into a basin Jib. of sugar, a table-spoonful of cream, a small piece of butter the size of a walnut, warmed to melting, and the well-beaten whites of two eggs, and then stir in the pounded Almonds and 20 drops of essence of lemon. Mix all well together, and have ready some light paste, with which line some small tartlet- or patty-pans ; fill up the pans with the mixture, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. (2) Beat up together very light Jib. of powdered sugar and the whites of four eggs. Beat up Jib. of ground Almonds with the eggs and sugar. Add a little Oil of Almonds or rose-water, and bake in pastry. (3) Soak Jib. of Almonds in cold water all night. Next morn- ing, blanch them, lay them on a clean cloth to dry, and then beat them fine in a marble mortar with a little orange-flower or rose-water. Then beat and strain six yolks and two whites of eggs, add Jib. of white sugar, and a little powdered mace. Bub all well together in the mortar. Melt lOoz. of fresh butter, and add the grated peel of one lemon. Mix all the ingredient together and fill tartlet-pans, after lining with a puff paste. (4) Take 6oz. of Sweet and Joz. of ground Bitter Almonds. Work Jib. of butter to a cream with a spoon, put in the Almonds, and add 6oz. of finely-powdered caster sugar, four eggs well whisked, 1 gill of cream, and a little grated lemon-peel. Then take some tartlet-pans, line them with puff paste, fill them with the mixture, put a little candied peel on the top of each, and bake for half-an-hour in a quick oven. Almond Crackling's.—Take 6oz. of blanched Almonds cut in short shreds, 4oz. of ground Almonds, lOoz. of sifted sugar, the whites of two eggs, and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Mix them together in a basin, and use a dessert-spoon to lay out pieces the size of a walnut upon a sheet of paper, spread on baking-plates. The cracklings should bo placed 1 Jin. apart, and he slightly spread out with the tip of the finger dipped in water. The circular form may be preserved, and Jin. is sufficient thickness. Bake the cracklings of a light brown colour in a moderately hot oven. Almond Cream.—Alexis Soyer gives a receipt for this, which we have arranged to suit modern requirements. Blanch Jib. of Sweet Almonds, dry and pound them well. Put them into a stewpan with 6oz. of lump sugar and the yolks of four eggs, and mix well together with a fork. In another stewpan have 1 pint of milk in which you have put loz. of isinglass; boil slowly down to f pint, pass through a tammy, and pour over the preparation in the other stewpan. Stir over the fire until it all thickens, when it may be poured into the howl prepared for it. Let it remain until cold, stirring occasionally to keep it smooth, and shortly after add 2 wineglassfuls of noyeau, maraschino, or curagoa. Almond Crisps or Pralines.—Blanch lib. of Sweet Almonds, and set them in a slow oven to dry. When sufficiently dry and crisp without being discoloured, they may be pounded in a mortar; lib. of icing-sugar is then to be mixed with them. Pass this through a wire sieve on to a marble slab, and then rub in Jib. of good butter, a little chopped thin rind of lemon or a few drops of the essence, and the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and make into a paste. Boll out this paste, and cut into equal-sized pieces; bake in a sharp oven, and dip in sugar boiled to the “crack” (see Sugar-boiling). Set to harden. Almond Croquettes.—(1) Take 8oz. of flour, 8oz. of Almonds, 8oz. of sugar, the zest of two oranges rasped by lumps of sugar, two whole eggs and one extra yolk. Scald the Almonds, and remove their skins, afterwards soaking for two hours in cold salt-and-water. Pound them thoroughly in the mortar, with a few drops of orange-flower water added to prevent oiling, until reduced to a pulp; then mix in the remainder of the ingredients by pounding all together. Take up the paste, knead it with a little flour upon the slab, roll it with a bit of flat board into the shape of a straight rolling-pin, lay this on Almonds—continued. a greased baking-sheet, egg it over, and bake in very moderate heat; when done, and while hot, cut it up in thin slices (see Fig. 14. Cutting-up Almond Croquettes. Fig. 14), and dry them on a baking-sheet in a very slow oven. After they are dried, moisten their edges with royal icing, dip them in finely-chopped pistachio kernels, and dry them a few minutes longer. (2) Use the same ingredients as in the preceding; mix all together, leaving the Almonds whole; roll as before in the form of a rolling-pin, and when baked in very moderate heat, cut it up into slices while hot (for if allowed to cool it would be hard and difficult to cut); colour the edges with pink chopped Almonds, or pink-coloured sugar. Almond Custard Fritters.—Beat up five eggs, mix in a stew- pan with lib. of flour, and pour in by degrees lqt. of new milk, taking care to keep the mixture quite smooth. Stir this over a gentle stove for twenty minutes or so, until the custard is sufficiently thickened, when add a mixture of Jib. of sugar, loz. of blanched and well-pounded Bitter Almonds, six yolks of eggs, and a small pinch of salt. This will then form a thick custard, which may be spread on a slightly-buttered baking- sheet ; and when cold it may be cut into pieces of about 2in. by ljin. These pieces are now to be dipped in egg and bread- crumbs, and fried in very hot fat until slightly coloured. Drain by skimmer, dust with caster sugar, and serve piled up on a folded napkin or dish-paper. These are not “ fritters ” in the general acceptation of the term, hence it is more convenient to insert them here than under that generic head. Almond Faggots.—Blanch and pound to a pulp Jib. of Sweet Almonds, adding a teaspoonful of orange-flower water to pre- Fig. 15. Strip for Almond Faggot. vent them from oiling. Mix up the Almond pulp, with Jib. of fine caster sugar, into a paste with the whites of two eggs and 10 drops of essence of lemon, and work in as much fine pastry flour as may be required to make a stiff paste.