177 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. Brandy—continued. is bright, and then add to it 1 gill of Brandy. Have ready a quart jelly-mould, pour the jelly from the vessel into it, and set it aside in a cool place for two hours; then pack it in ice, and let it remain for two hours. Dip the mould lightly and carefully to near its edge in lukewarm water, take it up immediately, turn it out, wiping neatly, and serve at once. Brandy Sauce.—(1) Mix to a stiff paste 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot with a little cold water, add gently enough water to make a creamy sauce, sweeten to taste, and place it on the fire till the sauce thickens. Before serving, stir in 1 wineglassful of Brandy. (2) Mix about 1 dessert-spoonful of French potato-flour in a little cold water, add slowly J pint of boiling water, and boil for two minutes; then add loz. of fresh butter and 3oz. of caster sugar, squeezing a little lemon-juice and a little grated nutmeg in it. When this is dissolved, stir in 1 gill of Brandy, and serve. (3) Mix the yolks of three eggs with J pint of cream, or milk and cream, or milk, 1 dessert-spoonful of caster sugar, and 1 wineglassful of Brandy; beat well together, and warm up in a saucepan for seven or eight minutes in the bain- marie. Stir continuously, so that it shall not curdle. (4) Beat to a cream Jib. each of fresh butter and powdered white sugar, mix with it J gill of Brandy, the juice of one lemon, and half a nutmeg grated. Stir slowly into this J breakfast-cupful of boiling water, let it simmer a few minutes, and then pour into a warm sauce-tureen. (5) Mix 1 table-spoonful of best flour with 1 gill of cold water, pour into it 1 gill of boiling water, and stir over the fire until it is thick. Add the yolk of an egg, stir five minutes more, and sweeten with 2oz. of powdered white or caster sugar. Stir into the sauce 1 wineglassful of Brandy and 2 table-spoonfuls of sherry, while a little grated nutmeg is an improvement. Brandy Shrub.—Squeeze out with a squeezer 1 pint of lemon- juice and 1 pint of orange-juice into lgall. of Brandy, add the peel of one lemon and the peel of two oranges, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Dissolve in 5 pints of water 41b. of white sugar, strain the liquor, add the two together, and let them macerate for a fortnight; then strain off, and filter if necessary. Cognac Bitters.—Put into a mortar Jib. each of bitter orange peel, red Peruvian bark, sweet orange peel, and calisaya bark ; add 2oz. of cardamom-seeds, loz. of calamus- root, ljlb. of red cherry bark, 2oz. of caraway-seeds, and Joz. each of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Pound these to a coarse powder, and put it into a bowl with 22Jgalls. of proof spirit, or SOgalls. of 25deg. below proof spirit; stir fre- quently, and let it remain for fully fifteen days. It must not be racked off. Add sufficient caramel to give it the required dark-red colour, pour in 7 Jib. of sugar dissolved in 7Jgalls. of water, and let it stand, after stirring well, until it is quite settled; filter it, and it is ready for use. To obtain an amber colour to the bitters, the caramel and cherry bark must be omitted. Dantzic Brandy.— Prepared as for Eau Cordiale (see Cordials and Liqueurs), with lib. of petals of roses, Jib. each of orange flowers, lemon-peel, and bitter almonds, loz. of mastic, and using the same quantities of spirits, water, and capillairo. Imitation Brandy.—Put loz. of oil of cognac into a vessel with lgall. of plain spirit (95 per cent.), pour it into a bottle, cork securely, and shake vigorously two or throe times a day for a week; then uncork the bottle, and add to the contents 2 fluid ounces of spirit of ammonia. Put loz. each of red rose- leaves and freshly-gathered jasmine flowers into a stone or earthenware jar, add 4oz. of rough black tea and lib. of prunes, previously crushed and the kernels broken in a mortar with 4oz. of bitter almonds. Pour the spirit out of the bottle into the jar, add also lgall. of plain proof spirit, and mix well. Let this stand for about fourteen days, then cover it closely, filter, and bottle for future use. Before using for cooking purposes, it will be as well to reduce it. Oil of Cognac.—An essential oil distilled from brandy ; it is much used in making imitation brandy. Other concoctions in which Brandy forms an ingredient will be found under their special headings. See also Cordials and Liqueurs. BRANDY BALLS.—See Sugar. BRANDY SNAPS.—These delights of our youth were probably originally made with a Brandy flavouring as one of their ingredients; but with that lack of dis- criminative taste peculiar to uneducated palates, the presence of the Brandy flavour was not sufficiently appreciated to render its presence essential to the success of the manufacture; hence, as the “ snaps ” could be made cheaper without Brandy, and yielded more sweets for the same money, the spirituous prefix became but a name. Brandy Snaps are sometimes confounded with jumbles, but these have a distinctive characteristic, in that they are curled round the finger or a stick before cooling, while Brandy Snaps are flat—a distinction that can only be appreciated by the young. See Jumbles. (1) Bub Jib. of butter into lib. of flour, and mix into this 2lb. of moist sugar, 2oz. of ground ginger, 1 dessert-spoonful of allspice, the grated peel of half a lemon, and the juice of a whole one; beat in also Jib. of treacle. Spread the paste thinly over some buttered baking-sheets, and bake lightly in a moderately slow oven. When sufficiently cooked, cut into squares. (2) Bub Jib. of butter into Jib. of flour, add Joz. of ground ginger, Jib. of moist sugar, and the grated rind and juice of one lemon ; stir in a little treacle until the mixture is thin enough to spread on tins. Bake in a moderate oven; when done, cut it into strips. They must be put in a tin as soon as cold, or they will lose their crispness. (3) Mix Jib. of moist sugar, Jib. of flour, and ljoz. of ground ginger. Put in a saucepan Jib. of salt butter, 6oz. of treacle, and Jib. of moist sugar; when this boils, mix it with the other ingredients. Spread the mixture thinly with a knife over a buttered sheet tin, cut into rounds, and bake. BRASILLB(B).—Fr. for “ toasted quickly,” as of a slice of bread. BRAWN.—The literal meaning of this term is “the flesh of the boar,” or bawr-en (in the Anglo-Saxon easily corrupted to Brawn). This was probably the original application of the term, but with the advance of civilisation it has come to be used with a much less compre- hensive signification, and is now pretty much confined to the boned head of a pig, chopped into pieces, boiled with spices, and pressed into a shape by a weight or a machine specially devised for the purpose (see Fig. 188). The annexed re- ceipts, although resembling each other in some respects, will be found to give varied results. (1) Bemove the tongue and brains from a pig’s bead, and lay all in salt for one day ; drain off the salt and put fresh brine, taking care to keep the head well covered; in three days add to the brine 1 table-spoonful each of crushed saltpetre, black pepper, and allspice. Turn the head occasionally in the brine, and after it has been in pickle for four days, boil both it and the tongue. When tender, remove the meat from the bones, and cut it up while hot. Tie the brains in muslin, boil for half-an-hour, and then mix them with the meat. Skin the tongue, cut it in large pieces, and mix with the other. Season the whole with allspice, black pepper, and salt if necessary, put it in a collaring-tin with a weight on the top, and let it stand for a day or two. (2) Boil a well-cleaned pig’s head until tender. Line a basin with pieces of the skin, cut the meat off the bones into squares, place first a layer of fat, then lean, and so on, until the basin is full, adding pepper and dried sage between the layers. Cover the basin with a small plate, and place a weight on it, then let it stand till cold. To make it leaner, one or two sheeps’ or additional pigs’ tongues can be cut up and laid in. Fig. 188. Brawn-press (Adams and Son). X