2 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, decreferred to, see under their special heads. Absinthe—continued. Dissolve in the distilled spirit 21b. of crushed white sugar, and flavour with a few drops of oil of anise. Fontarlier Absinthe.—The angelica seed is omitted; otherwise the ingredients and proportions are similar to those of the Lyons. ABTSSINIAN ALES.—These are brewed indis- criminately from either wheat, barley, or millet, and are generally called “ Tallah.” The grain is first dried, and then broken up in a mortar, or between stones, to divest it of some of the outer husk. After being passed through a grass sieve, the grain is put into a large earthenware saucer, about 2ft. in diameter and 6in. deep in the centre. In this the brewing takes place by the aid of heat, and the “ Ale ” is afterwards stored for fer- mentation in jars. ACACIA. — The name of the gum extracted from the tree of the same name. Sometimes the gum is known as “ Gum Arabic.” See Gums. ACAR1TJS.—See Mites (Cheese-mite, Meal-mite, Sugar- mite, &c.). ACCOLADE.—Fr. for a “ brace,” as of pheasants, par- tridges, &c. These are sometimes served two together, or en accolade. ACCOMMODE(E).—Fr. for “arranged” or “dressed,” as accommode au beurre, dressed with butter. Asparagus is said to be accommode en fagon de petit pois, or dressed after the fashion of green peas. ACCOUNTS.—The economical householder is careful to obtain, so far as it lies in his power, a full return for his money. Whether he does so or not depends, in a great measure, upon the habits of those in charge of certain departments, but more especially the chief of the kitchen. A careful cook can more than double the value of services rendered, by practising economy and studying the interests of the master before those of the tradesman. That this is not always done, we have more than hearsay evidence to prove; although, perhaps, it is not so frequently due to dishonest collusion as to a culpably lax system, or entire lack, of keeping Kitchen Accounts. In large hotels the chef is not responsible for the goods he receives: he merely signs his orders, which have to be again presented with the goods, and before the latter are sent to the kitchen, a superintendent appointed for the purpose carefully examines and weighs (or should do so) every article, to see that it corresponds in every particular with the order given. But a collusion between this superin- tendent and the tradesman might exist, and goods be forwarded up to the kitchen as correct weight which might be very much short. The cook is the loser, then, not only of material, but of reputation, for his kitchen profits must be less in proportion to the value of the dish that would have been prepared from the material of which he has been defrauded. These remarks apply with equal force to small kitchens as to large ones; and the suspicion naturally arises that a cook who is said to be “ careless ” in his or her Accounts is, in reality, in league with the tradesman to defraud the master. Sometimes the master or the mistress is to blame for any loss that may be sustained by dishonest dealing—servants insufficiently paid, long credit, and reckless ordering, might prevail— but where a rigid system of Kitchen Accounts and checking is instituted, and the servants are fairly treated, the most dishonest tradesman would fail in his attempts to cheat. Under such circumstances, the saving on the kitchen department will in some cases be found to more than repay the trouble of keeping Accounts. As it would be impossible to organise a system of keeping Kitchen Accounts that would be found perfect enough to meet all purposes, something must be left to the cook and the master, each of whom will prove his ability to deal with the subject by formulating a system to meet his own requirements, based upon the few Accounts—continued. suggestions we are able to make for general guidance. We have to deal here with Accounts, and not with losses from indiscreet marketing or bad cooking: these matters have to be treated on their own merits. Every cook should have an Order Book, with counterfoils, upon which an exact copy of the order issued should be taken. With each parcel of goods care should be taken to receive an Invoice, and no goods should be received without one. The Invoice should coincide with the counterfoils of the Order Book, and be marked with the weight or measure and price of each article. After the weights and measures have been corroborated by actual weighing and measuring, which is so often neglected, and the price is ascertained to be correct according to the markets, the next thing to do is to file the Invoice for future reference—or, where a kitchen clerk is kept, it may be entered up fully in an Invoice Book kept for the purpose. This is your check upon the tradesmen, whose petty defalcations are not in all cases a systematic fable. When once it is understood that goods are weighed and measured when received, the necessity for it will disappear; but the system should not be relaxed, for all that. Instead of an Order Form, books are sometimes used, in which the order is written and signed, and filled up with prices and quantities by the tradesman, and returned with the goods. This system saves much writing, but it is open to this objection: the book might be lost, and then the cook would have no existing check upon the account of the tradesman. The cook should also keep a Journal or Diary—that is to say, a book in which can be scribbled down at the moment any circumstances worthy of note, especially such as cash paid out or received for kitchen purposes, orders received and executed, memoranda for a future day, and notes of new ideas. Besides this, there should be an Account or Gash Book in which tradesmen’s bills, wages, and cash transactions generally, are entered; a Petty Cash Book, in which small sums under a certain amount can be quickly entered without reference to the Account Book; and a slate hung up in a convenient spot. Cooks in large kitchens have styles of bookkeeping convenient to themselves, as also have proprietors and managers of hotels; but the small householder is often the victim of the fraudulent tradesman because the cook is not expected to keep Accounts, and the mistress is too indolent or careless to do so. If the amount of money wasted yearly in this country through not keeping Kitchen Accounts could be calculated, it is certain that the total would be astonishing. See also Economy in the Kitchen and Marketing. ACE PH ALE.—Fr. for fish such as oysters, mussels, cockles, scallops, limpets, periwinkles, &c.; signifying, literally, “without heads.” ACETIC ACID.—This acid is the foundation of vinegars, but is not often used in its crude state, excepting to make artificial vinegars, which may be either white or brown, the latter being coloured with burnt sugar. Acetic Acid is very difficult to obtain in a state of purity—that is, free from metallic combination; hence it is not recom- mended for culinary purposes. See Yinegar. ACHAR, Hind—A. salt or acid relish. The term is used by Anglo-Indians to signify pickles of any sort. The composition of Achar is generally a combination of capsicums, onions, salt, and lemon- or lime-juice, or vinegar, in proportionate quantities to suit the taste, pounded, and mixed together. Salt-fish, mangoes, and other things, may be added at discretion. A pickle called Achar, or Archard, is made by macerating in vinegar the tender shoots of the bamboo, or the cabbage that grows in the crest of the palm-tree. ACID DROPS.—See Sugar. ACID PUDDING.—See Puddings.