TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 101 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. of bread. Cover over the pan, and cook until the whole is done ; then remove the bag of spices, bread-crust, and the bunch of herbs. Toast a French roll, and cut it into quarters; put these on a dish, put the meat in the centre, pour the gravy over, and serve as hot as possible. Beef Grenadines.—Cut up 21b. of the under-cut of the rump (Fig. 110) into cutlets about £in. thick, lard them with thin strips of bacon, and put them in a stewpan with a small piece of butter, lightly sprinkling the upper side with pepper and salt. Let them cook very slowly for fifteen minutes, without approaching the frying point, then turn them on the other side, and again lightly pepper and salt the upper. Allow them to cook for another fifteen minutes. Have Fig. 110. Back of Rump op Beef. rea^y 4 pint of good brown gravy, thickened with 1 table- spoonful of flour to the half-pint. Coat the grenadines with this, place them on the dish in which they are to be served, and pour the gravy over them. This dish may be made to look very pretty by a little garnish of sprigs of cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, or any vegetable in season. After these are boiled and drained from the water, toss in a saut^-pan with a little butter. Beef Hams.—(1) Divide the bam into three parts, and rub on | pint of molasses; let it remain in this molasses a day and two nights, turning it over occasionally during the time. Rub on then 1 handful of kitchen salt, and put it back in the vessel with the molasses; turn it over morning and night for ten days. Hang it up to dry for one week, then smoke a little (see Cueing). It is an excellent plan, after the Beef is sufficiently smoked, to put each piece in a bag, to protect it from insects, and then it may be kept hanging till wanted for use. (2) Take a leg of Beef weighing about 141b. or 161b., trim it, and shape it like a ham; put it into a deep bowl or pan, rub it well over with a pickle made with lib. each of salt and moist sugar, foz. of coarsely-ground black pepper, loz. each of bay-salt and saltpetre, 3oz. of molasses, and sufficient beer to moisten them. Baste the ham twice a day at regular intervals for a month, turning it daily; then take it out, drain it thoroughly, roll it well in bran, and smoke it (see Cueing). Put it into a canvas bag, wash it over with lime, hang it in a dry, cool place, and let it remain until wanted. Beef Jelly.—Prepare an extract of Beef in the same way as if for Beef-tea, without adding water, and with only a very little (if any) salt. Put 5OZ. of gelatine into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of cold water, and soak it; let it remain until sufficiently swollen, then put it on the fire, and boil it until dissolved. Take 1 teacupful of the -Beef extract when nearly cold, add the gelatine, stir well, let it set, and use as required. Beef Jelly Broth with Vermicelli.—Trim the skin, &c., off lib. of lean Beef, and cut the Beef into small pieces; put them in a saucepan with a beaten egg and 2qts. of cold broth that has been skimmed and strained. Put in the broth a minedd carrot, a stick of celery, and a piece of leek. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, stir the contents occasionally, and let them simmer for thirty minutes. Strain the broth through a wet jelly-bag, pour it into a saucepan, and skim off all the fat. Boil the broth up, mix in 5oz. of blanched vermicelli, and let the whole boil gently for five minutes. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve. Beef—continued. Beef a la Neapolitaine.—A piece of fresh silverside about 61b. or 81b. is best for this dish. Make two or three holes in it with a carving-steel or any other convenient borer, and insert in each a strip of fat bacon rolled in powdered sweet herbs and pepper. Tie up the meat with white tape, to keep it a good shape. Next mince a piece of fat bacon with a meat chopper, adding to it a clove of garlic, an onion, some parsley, thyme, and marjoram. When these are finely minced and well incorporated, put the mixture into a saucepan with the meat, and stew. Turn the meat frequently till it is browned on all sides ; then moisten with plenty of tomato sauce, diluted with a little stock, and add salt to taste. Let the meat stew slowly till done. Remove the string, and serve with macaroni round the dish, dressed as follows: First boil it in milk or water, and then, when quite soft, mix with it some of the sauce of the meat, strained and freed from fat. To this add plenty of grated Parmesan cheese. The macaroni should be mixed in a warmed tureen, not over the fire. Beef Olives.—(1) Take lib. of fillet, rump, or tender Beef- steak, and cut it into slices £in. thick, and 3in. by 4in. in diameter, or thereabouts, taking care to have all the same size. Flatten them with the side of a meat-chopper or cutlet-bat wet. Prepare a stuffing with the Beef trim- mings chopped up, loz. of suet, a small scrap of bacon or ham, 1 teaspoonful of mixed powdered sweet herbs, a lemon-rind grated, salt, pepper, 2oz. of fine breadcrumbs, and an egg. Work this into a mass, and make into shapes like wine-corks, around each of which a piece of meat must be rolled and tied firm. Put these into 1 pint of boiling stock or brown sauce, and stew very gently for an hour. When serving they should be piled methodically on a flat dish, garnished with little piles of mashed potatoes, alternated with spinach, and the sauce in which they were cooked may be poured round the dish; or the following: Melt 1 table-spoonful of butter in a little saucepan, and work in smoothly 1 table-spoonful of flour, 4 pint of the stock in which the olives were cooked, and 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup or tomato sauce; then boil up. Mashed potatoes may be heaped in the centre of the dish, and the olives ranged round. Pour on the sauce, and fill the centre up with spinach. (2) Chop fine two slices of lean ham or bacon, put them into a mortar with 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, half that quantity of shred beef-suet, and a few sweet herbs, and pound them well together. Have ready some slices of cooked cold Beef, |in. thick and 4in. square, mix in the yolk of an egg to the pounded forcemeat, spread it over the slices of meat, roll them up, and fasten them in shape with string or skewers. Now brush them over with yolk of egg beaten with a little salt, cover with breadcrumbs, put them to brown in a Dutch oven or an ordinary one, then put them into a saucepan with rich gravy to moisten, and cook until they are quite tender. Put them carefully on a dish, pour the gravy over, garnish with pieces of toast or fried bread, and serve. (3) Cut 141b. of lean Beef, rump-steak for preference, into slices Jin. in thickness and about 6in. in length, and brush them well over with beaten yolk of egg. Put 1 tea- cupful of breadcrumbs into a basin, and mix them up with 2oz. of beef-suet or marrow and a sprig of parsley, both finely chopped, a small quantity of powdered mace, the grated rind of half a lemon, and salt and pepper to taste. Divide this mixture, and spread it over the slices of meat; roll these round, fastening them with small skewers, put them in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire, and brown them. Put them into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich brown gravy, and add 1 table-spoonful each of browning and ketchup, and 1 teaspoonful of lemon pickle; thicken with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and stew them until done. Turn the whole out on to a dish, remove the skewers, and serve with forcemeat balls for garnish. Beef Cooked in Parisian Style.—Take a rump of Beef (Fig. 102, 2) weighing 51b. or 61b., bone, and lard, following the grain of the meat, with strips of bacon and raw ham, previously seasoned. Place it in a kitchen basin, season, pour over 4- bottle of white wine, and let it macerate for five or six hours; after which, drain, roll, and tie it up