51 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Artichokes—continued. cupfuls of water over fourteen or fifteen Jerusalem Arti- chokes, pared and cut up small, and cook until they are quite tender. Then add a slight thickening of flour mixed smooth in a little water, pour in $ gall, of good stock, salted to taste, and set the liquor to boil, stirring frequently. As soon as it boils, turn the contents of the saucepan out on to a fine sieve placed over another sauce- pan ; rub through as much as possible, remove all the scum, place the saucepan on the fire, and boil for a few minutes; add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, pour the soup at once into a soup-tureen over pieces of toast, and serve. From the commencement to the finish the soup will require to boil for at least an hour-and-a-half. A breakfast-cupful of milk added after the soup has been strained is an improvement. (2) Pare, wash, and cut into slices four large potatoes. Put them into a saucepan with a dozen Jerusalem Artichokes, also pared and washed, and a couple of onions cut up small. Pour over |gall. of mutton-broth, place the saucepan on the fire, and boil until all the vegetables are tender, which will take about an hour. Pour the whole into a fine sieve placed over a saucepan, and rub it through, adding salt and pepper to taste. Put the saucepan on the fire, boil up once more, remove the pan from the fire, pour in 1 tea- cupful each of milk and cream, or 2 teacupfuls of cream, and stir well. Pour the soup into a tureen over pieces of toast, or bread fried in butter, and serve. (3) Cut into small pieces 61b. of peeled Jerusalem Arti- chokes, a small head of celery, one medium-sized onion, and three turnips. Put them into a saucepan, and cover with white veal stock. Put the saucepan on the fire, and boil slowly for about an hour, or until all the vegetables are soft; then pass them with the liquor through a fine sieve into another saucepan, pour in a little milk if the soup be too thick, and boil up once more. Eemove the pan from the fire, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, add sufficient sugar, cayenne, salt, and pepper to season, and stir well. Pour the whole into the tureen, and serve very hot. Boiled Jerusalem Artichokes.—Have a lined saucepan of boiling salt-and-water ready to hand, and plunge the Artichokes into it as soon as they are ready ; boil from twenty to twenty- five minutes, drain, and serve them on a napkin or a vegetable- dish with a strainer. White sauce or melted butter should be sent to table with them. Great care is required in boiling these Artichokes: watch them carefully, and remove them as soon as they are soft, as by continuing the boiling after that they soon become hard again. Boiled Jerusalem Artichokes with White Sauce.—Peel a dozen or so Jerusalem Artichokes, wash them thoroughly, dry, and cut up into pear shapes, chopping off a small piece from the bottom or thick end. Plunge them into a saucepan of salted water, and boil for from twenty to twenty-five minutes, or until quite tender. Arrange them on a dish, standing them on end, pour over a good supply of hot white or bechamel sauce, place a few cooked brussels sprouts in the cavities and round them, and serve. Tried Jerusalem Artichokes.—(1) Slice the Artichokes, or cut them round ; put them into boiling salt-and-water, and let them boil until nearly done ; then let them drain, and get cool. Place them in a stewpan, with butter, and let them fry over a slow fire. Season, dish up, and mask with a little white or brown sauce. (2) The Artichokes may be dipped in batter, or egg and breadcrumbs, and fried a light brown in a pan containing plenty of fat. Drain, and serve with brown sauce. Cold Artichokes may be sliced and served in a similar manner. Mashed Jerusalem Artichokes.—When the Artichokes are boiled (in salt-and-water) quite soft—not longer, for reasons previously explained—take them out and mash them like turnips, adding butter or cream, pepper, and salt. This mashing is not so easy to perform as with turnips, hence it is advisable to rub through a coarse sieve, or to use a vegetable-masher, and warm up again in the stewpan before serving. Mashed Artichokes are very nice with boiled leg of mutton. Scalloped Jerusalem Artichokes.—Pare and parboil half-a- dozen or so of Jerusalem Artichokes, and cut them up into the size and shape of oysters. Put them into scallop-shells, well buttered and sprinkled over with breadcrumbs seasoned Artichokes—continued. with salt and pepper, sprinkle the pieces of Artichoke over with more salt and pepper and a little pounded anchovy, then with more breadcrumbs, and a small lump of butter on each. Place them in the oven to brown, or brown them with a salamander, and serve. ARTIFICIAL MILKS.—Imitations of cow’s, ass’s, and goat’s milks are sometimes found exceedingly useful when the real articles cannot be obtained or kept sweet and fresh. Receipts by which to prepare them will be found under their various headings. ASH CAKE.—See Cakes. ASHBERRIES.—These are gathered from the com- mon Mountain Ash (Pyrus Aueuparia), upon which, in autumn, they hang in brilliant scarlet clusters. They should be gathered before the frosts set in, for they easily spoil in cold weather. Asliberry Jelly.—Put lqt. of Asliberries into a preserving-pan, with lqt. of water. Let the water simmer until it is coloured and tastes bitter; then strain off the liquor, and throw the berries away, cleaning the pan afterwards. Strain the liquor, and return it to the pan; put in with it 21b. of preserving-sugar and boil slowly over a hot stove for an hour, or a trifle less. Add -£oz. of isinglass, which will readily dissolve in the warm liquor; strain off again into jars, and when cold, cover in the usual way. This jelly is said to be very nice with roast venison, but is not often made. ASPARAGUS (Fr. Asperges; Ger. Spargeln; Ital. Asparago; Sp. Espavragos).—In the markets of Great Britain this select vegetable is generally sold under the name of “ Sparrow-grass a term that has no meaning, being merely a very simple and old-fashioned corrup- tion of the correct appellation. The plant is one of the lily tribe, and, although cultivated in gardens for table use, is not unfrequently met with growing wild along the sea-sliore. It has a very ancient reputation, and is mentioned in several Greek and Roman books. Cato (b.c. 200) and Columella (a.d. 20-40), two Latin authors, speak very highly of it, and Pliny (a.d. 50) describes a sort that grew near Ravenna, yielding edible shoots so large that three of them would weigh a pound. The Asparagus of commerce, as sold in bundles in our markets, is the young shoot of the plant cut for use, when only a few inches above the ground, by means of a knife specially constructed for the purpose. The head of this young shoot only is edible; but, if the shoot were left to develop instead of being gathered in, it would rapidly assume the proportions of a tall, feathery plant. Rliind describes the progress of the Asparagus-plant thus : “ The shoot grows only from the extremity, and works or vegetates from the centre, and not from the surface as in trees; thus it pushes up through the soil in one mass. The branches, which lie so thick together, safe and well pro- tected xmder their scaly leaves, soon begin to be developed, and are drawn out until the whole plant, with its numerous thread-like leaves, assumes very much the character of a larch-tree, having its miniature parts more light and elegant, and the colour of a more lively green. The flowers, which wave in graceful panicles, are of a yellow hue, and exhale a fragrant smell. They are followed by round berries of a bright orange-red.” There are two varieties of Asparagus sold in our markets, the one Red and the other Green. The first is a larger kind, growing fuller and closer, which, though handsomer in appearance, is not considered of so good a flavour as the Green. Nicholson, in the “ Dictionary of Gardening,” pronounces Conover’s Colossal and Giant sorts to be those held in the greatest esteem; but, according to some practical cooks, there is little to choose between sorts so long as the shoots are young, large, clean-looking, fresh- gathered, and tender. The nutritive value of Asparagus as a food is not very great; but, like many other vegetables in frequent use, it is chiefly admired for its flavour. Its culinary preparations are for the same reason extremely limited, lest the delicate II & 12