217 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Butter—continued. Maitre-d’Hotel Butter.—(1) Put in a basin ^lb. of fresh Butter, 2 good table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, £ tea- spoonful of salt, half that quantity of white pepper, and the juice of two lemons. Mix all together, and keep in a cool place. (2) Put loz. of good Butter in a bowl with 1 teaspoonful of very finely-chopped parsley, adding the juice of half a lemon. Mingle well with a very little nutmeg, and keep it in a cool place to use when needed. (3) Warm slightly gib. of Butter, then mix with it the strained juice of a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper When well mixed, put the Butter on ice till ready to serve. Melted Butter.—See Butter Sauce. Montpellier Butter. — Blanch for two minutes in boiling water lib. of mixed chervil, tarragon, burnet, chives, and cress ; - drain them, and when cool, squeeze the water out of them by putting them in a cloth and twisting the ends; put them in a mortar with six yolks of hard-boiled eggs, 2oz. of gherkins, the fillets of 6 well-washed anchovies, 2oz. of capers (also pressed in a cloth to free them of vinegar), a small piece of garlic (about the size of a pea), and season with salt and pepper; pound all well together, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Wash the mortar, and put in 21b. of butter, the pounded mixture, 2 table-spoonfuls of oil, and 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar; pound and mix all well together. Preserved Butter.—(1) Melt the Butter at a moderate heat, not exceeding 17Gdeg. Falir., and when oiled, all albuminous and curdy matters will coagulate and fall to the bottom. Strain off, add a little salt, and put in jars. In this way Butter will keep good for many months—an important con- sideration for travellers. Butter is sometimes preserved by working into it salt and saltpetre. In fresh Butter, the proportion would be for 181b. of Butter, lib. of salt, ljoz. of saltpetre; for 211b. of salted Butter, lib. of salt and loz. of saltpetre, mixed in each case with 2oz. of honey or fine brown sugar. In course of time the Butter assumes a taste like delicious marrow. (2) Put 3 or 4 teaspoonfuls of caster sugar on a board, and mix in 4 or 5 teaspoonfuls of salt, so as to give the latter the predominance ; drain 41b. of Butter, work the sugar-and-salt mixture well in, put it into jars, or cover it round with muslin, and it is ready for use. Ravig-ote Butter.—(1) Pound together in a mortar one sprig of parsley, the same of tarragon, very little chives, the same of chervil, and 1 small peeled shallot; add % teaspoonful of anchovy essence, loz. of good Butter, and | drop of spinach green. Bub through a fine sieve, and keep it in a cool place for general use. (2) Mix with ^lb. of fresh Butter, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped tarragon and chervils, the juice of two lemons, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, 1 pinch of white pepper, and 1 dessert-spoonful of chilli vinegar ; mix all well together, and put in a cool place to keep till wanted. Thickened Butter (Beurre Lie).—Put the yolks of two eggs into a saucepan, break them gently with a spoon, and add slowly 4oz. of Butter melted but without being browned; set the saucepan on a slow fire, and stir well until it is of the required consistence. It is then ready for use, and is gene- rally employed for anything that is either rolled in or stewed with breadcrumbs. When any of the foregoing butters are applied to pastry or bread, it is usual to paint them on when warm with a Butter-brush (see Fig. 239). Fig. 239. Butter-brush. The following sauces are those in which Butter forms the prime ingredient; our “ Melted Butter ” assuming the more accurate term of “ Butter Sauce.” Albert (Sweet-Butter) Sauce.—Put 2oz. of sugar and 4oz. of Butter into a basin, and beat them to a cream with a wooden spoon, by which time they should have a white appearance ; Butter—continued. pour in 2 table-spoonfuls each of water and lemon-juice, a drop at a time, and Joz. of blanched and pounded almonds, and continue to mix and beat until the sauce is smooth and resembles clotted cream. The Butter should be very fresh. Black - Butter Sauce.—Warm loz. of good Butter in the frying-pan until it becomes brown ; add six parsley-leaves, heat again for one minute, then add five drops of vinegar. Pour it into a saucebowl, and serve. Brown-Butter Sauce.—Put the required quantity of Butter into a saucepan, and warm it until it becomes of a rich brown colour, but without burning. Pour it over the fish or joint it is intended to be served with, add a little vinegar or lemon-juice to the pan, pour this also over, and serve. Brown-Butter Sauce for Croquettes.—Put into a sauce- pan 1 teacupful each of rich brown meat gravy and Butter, and sufficient salt and pepper to taste. Boil well for a few minutes, or until well incorporated, and serve a table-spoonful or so over each croquette. Butter of Garlic.—See A volt. Butter Sauce.—(I) Melt about loz. of fresh Butter in a pan, add 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it smooth with a spoon ; lightly season with salt and then add J pint of water, hot or cold. Let the sauce boil (not simmer, or it will have a raw, pasty taste), and keep stirring. (2) Put loz. of good Butter in a saucepan on a slow fire, stir, and when melted add the juice of half a lemon. Serve in a sauceboat. (3) French Style.—Put gib. of fresh Butter, 1 table- spoonful of flour, a little salt, 1 wineglassful of water, 1 table-spoonful of white vinegar, and a little grated nutmeg in a saucepan. Put it on the fire to thicken, but do not allow it to boil too fast, or it will taste of burned flour. Butter Sauce witli Capers.—Put into a stewpan 4oz. of/good Butter with the same weight of flour, which, by the aid of a wooden spoon, incorporate into the Butter, so as to obtain a paste; add to it 1 pint of cold water, a pinch of salt, some pepper, a bunch of parsley, and the juice of two lemons; stir the sauce on the fire till it begins to boil, then remove it off the fire, and take out the parsley; add a piece of good Butter, and 2 table-spoonfuls of little capers. Serve in a warm saaice- boat. The sauce can be thickened by beating in two yolks of eggs. Butter Sauce with Parsley. -Put 6oz. of Butter into a saucepan on the fire and let it melt; remove from the fire, let it settle for five minutes, pour off the clear into another pan, warm it up, mix in a little each of salt and very finely-chopped parsley, and serve hot in a sauceboat. Drawn-Butter Sauce.—Put 2oz. of Butter in a saucepan, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of flour while stirring; moisten with lqt. of water, and season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 5 teaspoonful of pepper. Let it simmer at the side of the stove for thirty minutes until it thickens; then add, little by little, Joz. of Butter, beating it continually until it becomes perfectly white, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon; stir once more, strain through a hair sieve, and serve. The innumerable uses to which Butter is applied in British and Continental cookery and confectionery will be found under various headings throughout the Encyclo- paedia : two or three receipts, however, suggest themselves as worthy of special notice here. Butter Biscuits.—(1) Cut up .}lb. of Butter in 21b. of sifted flour, and put 1 teaspoonful of salt to it; wet it to a stiff dough with i pint of milk, or cold water, and mix it well with a knife. Take the dough out of the pan, put it on to a floured paste-board, and knead it well; roll it out into a large thick sheet, and beat it very hard on both sides with tho rolling-pin, or break it (see Biscuits). After having beaten it some time, cut it out into small, round, thick cakes with a tin cutter or cup, beat each cake on both sides, prick them with a fork or dock them (see Biscuits), put them in buttered pans, and bake them to a light brown in a slow oven. (2) Put ljlb. of flour into a basin, and rub in 4oz. of Butter; add f teaspoonful of salt, 1 pint of milk, and $ tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little boiling water. Knead the paste thoroughly, roll it out to about