188 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Bread—continued. Bread Croustades Filled with Stewed Fruit.—Cut off the crust of a stale French roll, divide the crumb into three pieces, scoop out the centres, taking care not to injure the sides, and make them into the form of baskets. They should not he more than |in. thick. Plunge them into a saucepan of fat, which must be at such a degree of heat that it will colour the Bread at once, and leave them in it for only half-a-minute; then take them out, drain them thoroughly on paper, fill them with any desired stewed fruit, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve at once. Fio. 202. Bread Croustade with Lid (after a Design by Dubois).^ Bread Crodtons with Compote of Fruits.—Trim off the crusts from a couple of stale French rolls, and then cut the crumb into even slices; or some |in. slices may be cut off a stale tin loaf, and stamped out with a large round pastry- cutter. Dip these slices into sweetened vanilla-flavoured milk, and then fry them a very light golden colour in butter. Pile the compote—of any fruit—in the centre of a glass dish, and after dusting the croutons with caster sugar, arrange Fig. 203. Bread Croutons with Compote of Fruits. them round as shown in the illustration (Fig. 203). The croutons are generally preferred to sweet biscuits, and make a tasty dish for dessert. Bread Crodtons for Entrees.—Cut some slices of Bread fin. thick into heart-shaped pieces about 2in.; long melt some butter in a frying-pan, and when hot fry the Bread in it until of a pale yellow, taking care to colour them all over alike. Bread Crodtons for Entremets.—Cut some slices of Bread J-in. thick, take off the crust, cut the crumb into l|in. tri- angular pieces, trim off the angles, and fry a golden colour in butter. Bread Grodtons for Garnishing1.—(1) Cut siz rather thin slices off a trimmed loaf, and stamp them with a pastry-cutter into heart-shaped croutons; lay them on a tin plate, drip a Bread—continued. little clarified butter over them, place in a hot oven, and let them get a good golden colour. Take them out of the oven and use as required. (2) Take a long, narrow loaf of stale Bread, and trim it down on both sides like a piece of carpenter’s moulding, so that when it is sliced up with a sharp knife the slices will be the shape of a heart, a leaf, a “ club,” a “ spade,” and all alike. Put a piece of butter or lard in a frying-pan, and when it is hot fry the croutons in it, tossing them about to get them a nice even colour. Take them out, drain them, and they are ready for use. Bread Crodtons for Soup.—(1) Put slices of any Bread on a wire toaster (see Fig. 207) before a fire, and toast them. The fire must not be too hot. Brown on both sides, and cut into dice or small squares. (2) Cut some ^in. slices of Bread, trim off the crust, and cut the crumb in ^in. dice. Make some clarified butter hot in the pan, and fry the croutons in it till they are a light golden colour, tossing them about to ensure their being coloured all over equally. Serve on a separate dish. These croutons should be drained on a piece of paper before serving. Bread Crodtons a la Conde for Soup.—Cut off the dark crusts from rolls or slices of Bread, cut the Bread into dice, and put it in a tin in the oven to brown. Take them out, and serve in the soup-plates with soup. Bread Fritters.—Boil lqt. of milk with some sugar and cinnamon to taste, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of rose-water. Have ready some slices of Bread cut into circular shapes, soak them in milk, drain them, dip them into yolks of eggs well beaten, and fry them in plenty of butter. Serve with powdered sugar or jam. A round biscuit-cutter should be used to shape the slices, so that all may be of the same size. Bread Fritters with Fruit.—Cut off the crust of about twelve slices of bread, butter well, spread any kind of jam over them, and cover over with another slice, or put two together with the jam inside. Prepare a batter, cut the slices into various shapes, dip them in, and fry for about ten or twelve minutes in boiling lard or dripping, but lard for preference. Take them out, drain them, and put them on a cloth before the fire; then sprinkle a little caster sugar over them, and serve. Bread Jelly.—(1) Cut a French roll into slices, toast these on both sides, put them in lqt. of water, and boil until the whole forms a jelly; if required, adding more water. Strain through a coarse cloth or fine hair sieve, and flavour with lemon. (2) Cut a French roll into slices, toast these on both sides to a light brown colour, put them into lqt. of water, and boil until they become like a jelly. When done, strain, pour over a little wine with grated lemon-peel soaked in it, and juice sweetened with sugar. Serve cold. (3) Cut a slice of Bread from a stale loaf, and boil to a pulp in sufficient water to cover it; rub this pulp through a sieve, flavour with lemon or maraschino, and sweeten to taste. Put it into a cup or a mould ; when quite cold, turn out, and serve with cream and sifted sugar. Bread-and-Marrow Pudding1.—Soak 3 breakfast-cupfuls of Breadcrumbs in boiling water for ten minutes, then squeeze them as dry as you can, and mash with a spoon; add to this 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of beef-marrow chopped fine, 1 pinch of ginger, and a little grated lemon-peel; moisten with 1 wineglassful of brandy and four eggs; then add jib. of candied citron-peel cut into small dice, and fib. of sultana raisins. Tie this up in a buttered and floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil for two hours. When done, drain it, turn it out on to a dish, and pour a little sauce made with apricot jam over it, or 1 wineglassful of kirschenwasser. Bread Omelet.—To 1 teaspoonful of Breadcrumbs add a similar quantity of cream ; let it stand for a few minutes until the Bread has absorbed all the cream, when it must be bruised with a fork; then add three well-beaten eggs, a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and loz. of butter broken into small pieces. Fry three or four minutes as for an ordinary omelet. Bread Panada.—This is a very important preparation, for it is much used in Continental cookery. Fry Hb. of fine Bread- crumbs in ilb. of butter (melt the butter first), stirring it,