THE B & C ENCYCLOPAEDIA PRACTICAL COOKERY. Abbreviations used: Eng., English; Fr., Fi-ench; Ger., German; Hind., Hindoostanee; Ital., Italian; Sp., Spanish. Quantities and measurements are abbreviated in the usual manner: lb., pound; oz., ounce; gall., gallon; qt., quart; ft., foot; in., inch. Note.—For further information upon any subject mentioned in the following articles, refer to that name in its alphabetical order. ABAT-FAIM.—Fr. for, literally, a “hunger-reducer,” such as a substantial joint of roast beef. Hence it comes to mean the piece de resistance—something to cut at and come again. AB ATT AGE.—From abatter, to pull down. Applied to a pile of pieces, especially of game. ABBOCATI.—Italian light wines, such as Muscatel, "Vino Santo, and Yernaccia. See Italian Wines. ABDEIiAVI.—A sort of melon, or cucumber, which grows in Egypt and Arabia. Orientals eat the fruit both green and cooked, and look upon it as being very healthy. A refreshing and pleasing drink is made from the juice sweetened with sugar. ABEIDERO.—A sort of peach, much used in Spanish confectionery. ABERDEEN SANDWICHES—See Sandwiches. ABERFRAU CAKES.—See Cakes. ABERNETHY BISCUITS.—Very popular digestive biscuits, containing carraway seeds, and said to have been invented by the celebrated physician after whom they were named. See Biscuits. ABLETTE.—Fr. for a bleak or sort of smelt, caught chiefly in the Seine. Answers to our whitebait. ABRICOTE. — Fr. for a “ bon-bon” of crystallised apricots. ABSINTHE (Fr. Absinthe; Ger. Wermuth - extract; Ital. Assenzio; Sp. Ajenjo).—This is the name given to a liqueur made from an infusion in strong alcohol of worm- wood (Absinthium Artemisia) and some other aromatic ingredients, but must not be confounded with Vermouth. It is manufactured largely in Neufchatel, Montpellier, Absinthe—continued. Lyons, and Pontarlier, each kind having its peculiar taste and odour; but since the demand for Absinthe has increased in this and other countries, inferior varieties have been prepared for the market, possessing qualities of a dangerously deleterious character, and adulterated with noxious compounds, such as indigo, sulphate of copper, and chloride of antimony, for colouring. Genuine Absinthe has a greenish colour, is intensely bitter, and has a peculiarly penetrating odour. Age changes this green colour to*greenish-yellow, and the liqueur is then much improved, becoming agreeable, odorous, and sweetish. It is considered good when it turns milky, or opalescent, on being diluted; but certain aromatic resins, such as benzoin, guaiacum, and others, are sometimes added to impure qualities of Absinthe, for the purpose of pro- ducing this “ milky ” result. The wormwood plant grows wild in some parts of England, amongst rocks and rubbish, and is used in the brewing of purl; it is carefully cultivated in the Absinthe- manufacturing districts of the Continent. The various known brands of Absinthe are produced from the following formulae : Lyons Absinthe ia made with large wormwood leaves, green anise, fennel, angelica seed, and alcohol, coloured with a mixture of small wormwood leaves, lemon balm, hyssop tops and flowers, and dried veronica. Montpellier Absinthe resembles the Lyons, with these exceptions, that coriander seed is added, and the colouring is effected by hyssop herb and flowers, dried balm of Moldavia, and small wormwood leaves. Neufchatel Absinthe.—About 41b. of the freshly-gathered leaves and tops of wormwood, together with loz. each of angelica and calamus roots, aniseed and marjoram leaves, macerated for ten days in 4galls. brandy, or spirit 12 under proof. Add lgall. of water, and distil 4galls. at a gentle heat.