171 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bouchees—continued. some German sauce, boil it, and fill the Bouchees with it; put on the covers, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin or dish-paper, garnishing- with fried parsley. The patties or Bouchees made as above may be garnished with croquettes of game or poultry chopped fine (see Fig. 182), but a mince or salpiijon of crayfish, prawns, oysters, or lobsters can also be used. Form the croquettes into the shape of pears, the stalks, made by a stem of parsley, a fillet of truffle or pickled tongue, or piece of maccaroni, being added after the croquettes are fried. These can be made with game, poultry, or fish, in accordance with the garnish of the patties. (2) Boll up about Jib. of puff paste to the size of half a sheet of foolscap, dust a little flour on a board to provent it sticking to it, and cut the paste into squares of about 2in.; dip a paste-brush in the white of eggs lightly frothed, and touch the four corners and middle of the paste. Sift some refined sugar, spread that which remains in the sieve over the pastry, and bake in a medium oven. Make a little hollow in the centre, and fill with raspberry jam or cherries. Sweet Bouchees.—(1) Boll out to T\,in. in thickness about 12oz. of puff paste at ten turns, cut it up with a fluted cutter about 2in. wide, and with the rest of the paste form more of them cut with a plain cutter lRn. wide, cutting out the centres with another cutter lin. wide. Damp the surfaces of the fluted pieces of paste, over them put the smaller rings, pressing them together (see Fig. 183), dust over with powdered sugar, and bake in a moderate oven to a light colour. Take them out, lot them get cold, mask the tops of the flutes with white of eggs mixed with sugar, dust over with more sugar in coarse grains, and put them for about two minutes into the oven to dry the egg; take them out, cover the rings with the same mixture of egg and sugar, dip them into chopped pistachios, dry again in the oven, take them out, fill them with any kind of preserve, and serve cold. A 11 Fig. 183. Bouciiee. a, single layer ; B, Bouchee complete. (2) Prepare about 11b. of puff paste at nine rolls, roll it out to about £in. thick, and with a square cutter about 2in. wide cut out two dozen pieces. Make up the trimmings of the paste again, and roll it out as before ; with a half-moon cutter, ljin. wide and Lin. across, cut out ten dozen pieces, damp them, and on the flat pieces of paste arrange rosettes with them ; dust over with sugar, put on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven, and bake to a light colour. With the remainder of the paste cut out two dozen rings fin. in width, removing the centres with a cutter |in. in width; bake them separately in the oven with sugar dusted over them. When done, arrange a ring in the centre of the squares, dust the rings with chopped pistachios and the other parts with coarse loaf sugar, dry in the oven, letting them colour slightly, and garnish with red-currant jelly between the crescents before serving. (3) Prepare 12oz. of puff paste, giving it four rolls, and roll it out to about -jin. in thickness. Have handy a biscuit-cutter about 2in. wide and having four flutes, each about lin. in diameter, and with this cut out two dozen pieces ; then roll out the trimmings of the paste to about -^in. in thickness, cut out eight dozen pieces with a round cutter lin. in diameter, and again cut out the centres with a cutter fin. in diameter. Brush them over slightly with water, put one in each corner or flute of the square pieces of paste, press gently to make them adhere, dust over with sugar, put on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven, and bake to a light colour. Take them out, let Bouchees—continued. them get cold, brush the tops of the small rings with egg-and- sugar, sprinkle them over or dip them into coarsely-sifted loaf sugar or chopped pistachios, and set them to dry in the oven or hot closet; take them out, fill all the rings with different kinds of jelly, or any kind of sweetmeats or preserves, and serve. A very stylish mode of serving sweet Bouchees is to arrange them on an office-paste stand, and garnish round the dish with discs of dried-fruit pastes, or crystallised fruits and flowers (see Fig. 184). Fig. 184. Sweet Bouchees on Stand, Garnished Round with Discs op Dried-fruit Pastes. Numerous other Bouchees are given under the names of a variety of fruits, sweets, and savouries, such as Greengage, Lobster, Ox-Palates, Oysters, Rasp- berries, Salmon, Sardines, Shrimps, Soles, Straw- berries, Sweetbreads, Woodcocks, &c. BOUCHERE, A LA (literally, “butcher’s style”).— A mode of indicating the preparation of certain meats, as entre-cote d la Bouchere—ribs grilled and served with- out other seasoning than pepper and salt; cdtelettes d la Bouchere—cutlets which have not been trimmed; that is, ragged and rough. BOUDIN ABB.—The French term for a boned quarter of lamb stuffed with white and black puddings, roasted, and served with rich sauce. BOUDINS.—From this French term the English word “ pudding ” is derived; but amongst Continental cooks the acceptation is much less extensive, and is limited chiefly to a class of goods made of various meats, such as poultry, game, and fish, in the shape of sausages or Boudins noirs—black puddings. Reference will be made to them and receipts given under those special heads. The Boudin de mer is the sea-pudding or “trepang.” BOUFP.—A kind of German cake, made with eggs, sugar, butter, flour, currants, raisins, and lemon-juice. BOUIIiLABAISSE. — Sometimes this is written Bouille-abaisse, or Bouille-a-haisse, and is used to signify a fish soup in great favour amongst the Provencal French, so called because in preparing it the cook lets it boil up and then draws it away from the fire over and over again. This dish is said to be best prepared at Marseilles, and the following is the general mode adopted: The basis of the Bouillabaisse is formed out of any big fish, as coarse as you may please, to which several small fish are added, all chopped into little pieces, and chosen when possible from those that infest the rocks along the coasts of the Mediterranean. All are put together in a big vessel, with chopped onions,