THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 192 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Bread—conti nued. French Toast.—Beat up one egg in a basin with a little salt and 1 teaspoonful of milk, and in this dip some thin slices of Bread, covering them on both sides; then plunge the Bread into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a light brown. Take them out, drain them, and they are ready to be served. Spreading them over with stewed rhubarb, or other fruit in season, is a great improvement. Fried Bread.—Cut Jib. of Bread into small squares, sift these to remove any crumbs, put them into a frying-basket, plunge into a pan with some boiling fat, and move the basket to and fro, to brown the Bread. Turn it out on to pieces of paper to drain, and it is ready for any desired purpose. Bread carefully fried in this way will be crisp, but not hard. Fried Bread Cakes.—Make 21b. of dough, and work in Jib. of caster sugar, Jib. of butter, four eggs (beaten), 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and a little mixed spice; knead this well together on a floured board, and set before the fire to rise until it is very light. When it has risen sufficiently, knead it again, roll out thin, and cut into diamond shapes. Let these stand for a little while, and then fry them in boiling lard. Remove with a skimmer, let them drain, and serve as quickly as possible on a folded napkin. Fried Bread Cases.—Cut a French roll in halves, remove the crust, cut off a small piece from the ends of the halves so that they can stand up, and with a round cutter mark a place in the centre to be scooped out with a knife, removing as much of the inside as possible, but taking care not in the least to injure the outside. Fry them in boiling fat, and they are ready for use. Cases cut out of the Bread and prepared in this way are great favourites with some cooks for holding various savoury titbits. Fried Breadcrumbs.—(1) Dry slices or pieces of any stale Bread in the oven, and then roll them into crumbs. Put some lard or dripping into a frying-pan, and when the fat is about to boil, add the crumbs, and stir them till they become of a light brown colour. Take them out, drain them, and put them on paper spread on a tray before the fire. Butter may be used instead if preferred. They are generally served with game. (2) Fry loz. of butter with Jib. of Breadcrumbs, stirring gently until they assume a golden colour. When done, drain on a sheet of paper, season with salt if for gratins, or salt and cayenne pepper if eaten with game. Genoa Toast.—Take a French roll and lard it with ham and anchovies; then cut the roll into slices, lay on each slice a thin piece of bacon, dip them into batter, and fry them in boiling lard. Lay them on paper to drain, and serve hot with ravigote sauce. German Toast.—Cut some thick slices off the bottom of a stale household loaf, and lay them in a deep dish; beat four eggs, mix them with lqt. of milk, and pour this over the slices of Bread. Leave the slices of Bread until they have absorbed all the milk, then arrange them side by side on a buttered gridiron, and broil over a clear fire; turn them when lightly browned on one side, and brown the other. Arrange the toast on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich wine sauce. Bread—continued. Golden Crusts. —Take off the crust from a stale loaf of Bread, and cut the crumb into slices about ljin. in thick- ness. Stir a little milk into an egg broken on a plate ol- dish, and put the slices in it to soak; then put them into a frying-pan with a good supply of butter, and fry them to a golden colour. Take them out, drain them, dust them over first with moist sugar and then with nutmeg and cinnamon, and serve. If preferred, hot jam or preserved fruit may be put between two crusts, and served as sandwiches. Pulled Bread.—Take a loaf of new Bread, pull pieces of the crumb off, and put these in the oven or before a fire to brown. They may be stored in a tin like biscuits, but are better made fresh. Tinned Bread or French rolls make the best. Pumpernickel Ice. -— For this ice, Jib. of pumpernickel (Brown Bread of Westphalia) is required. Grate the Bread, dry it a little, pass it through a colander into a basin with a small quantity of syrup, and let it thoroughly soak. Have ready some vanilla cream ice, and when it is well set, mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of sweetened cream well whipped; add some of this to the pumpernickel mixture, put it in the freezer, and work it well with a spatula or spoon. When it is quite firm, pile it upon a dish, and serve. Savoury Bread Pudding-. — Boil four smallish onions in 1 pint of milk or well-seasoned stock; then scald a couple of French rolls or lib. of Bread in the liquid, and beat well up, removing any unsoftened crust or lumps; rub the onions to a fine pulp (purlie), and mix with the Bread. A little minced ham may bo added if desired. Beat up two eggs, and mix in thoroughly, with pepper and salt to taste, put into a baking-dish, and bake in a fast oven. Serve hot. Savoury Toast.—Put Joz. of butter into a basin, melt it, and stir in 1 dessert-spoonful of new milk, the same of Harvey sauce, and the yolk of one egg. When well incor- porated, add 1 table-spoonful of minced meat of any kind, but chicken for preference, season with salt, cayenne, and nutmeg to taste, and work the whole to a smooth paste. Have ready the required number of pieces of dry toast, spread them evenly with the mixture, brown their surfaces in the oven for a few minutes, and serve immediately. Toast and Water.—Cut a piece of well-browned toast into small squares. Put a thin slice of lemon into a bowl, pour in 1J pints of boiling water, put in the pieces of toast, and let the water get cold. Strain this, and use it as required. Toasted - Bread Drink. — Tho- roughly brown by toasting (see Fig. 207) two or three thin slices of Bread, and pour over them 1 pint of boiling water. Let them soak for ten minutes or so, and then strain off the clear liquor through a cloth, and add sugar and cream, or new milk, to taste. This is merely a strong “ toast and water,” served as though it were an infusion of coffee. Invalids are exceedingly fond of the substitution of toasted Bread for coffee. Fig. 207. Bread-toaster. Water Toast.—Make a dozen slices of toast; have ready about 3 table-spoonfuls of slightly-warmed butter and a dish of hot water. Dip the slices of toast quickly into the hot water, letting them remain in it only until they are moist. Lift them out with a skimmer, draining of all superfluous water, lay them on a hot dish, buttering each slice, and as soon as all are dipped serve them hot. BREAD FRUIT—The tree from which this natural bread grows (Artocarpus incisa) is a native of Southern Asia, of the islands of the South Pacific, and of the Indian Archipelago, where it is very highly esteemed. The fruit is nearly spherical in shape, and is covered with a rough rind, which is marked with small irregular hexagonal divisions, having each a small prominence in the middle. A single fruit sometimes weighs 41b. or more,