4 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Aerated Water—continued. sparkling’, with an agreeable saline flavour, and being bottled at high pressure, the water is very full of gas. It is recommended in cases of gout, rheumatism, and diseases of the bladder. The water contains the chlorides of sodium and potassium, sulphate of potassium, bromide, iodide, phosphate and carbonate of sodium, carbonates of lithium, barium, strontium, lime, mag- nesia, and iron, manganese, and silica. There are also mineral springs at Aix-la-Chapelle, Baden-Baden, Cauteret, Ems, Fachingen, Homburg, Kis- singen, Kreuznach, Marienbad, Seidlitz, Vais, and others of less importance. In England, we have mineral and hot springs at Bath, Brighton, Bristol, Buxton, Chel- tenham, Clifton, Filey, Harrogate, Hastings, Leamington, Malvern, Parton and Woodhall, Scarborough, and Tun- bridge Wells. In Scotland, the principal are Airthrey, Bridge of Allan, Moffatt, and Strathpeffer; all having special medicinal claims, but known better locally than as bottled beverages. Artificial Aerated Waters may be divided into three classes: (1) the Simple Aerated Water, commonly known as Soda-water, though containing no soda; (2) Saline and Medicated Aerated Waters, or imitations of natural springs; and (3) Saccharinated Aerated Waters, or those containing fruit-syrups and flavourings. Simple Aerated Water.—This consists of pure water highly impregnated with carbonic-acid gas, which has been also thoroughly purified, yielding a pleasant, freely sparkling, almost tasteless beverage. It is commonly known as “ Soda- water,” having, in its early days, been rendered saline by the addition of certain salts of soda. It was for many years a fashionable dinner beverage. Saline and other Medicated Aerated Waters.—These require no further notice than to observe that they are chaly- beate and saline, in imitation of various natural springs. For many years these and the genuine spring waters were sold under the Patent Medicines Act, and carried a stamp ; but in the year 1833 this Act, so far as they were concerned, was abolished. Numberless attempts have been made to introduce non-alcoholic Aerated Beverages that should be worthy imi- tations of bottled beers, stouts, and sparkling wines; and prizes are given yearly by Mr. J. Gilbert Smith, proprietor of the Mineral Water Trade Review (the representative trade journal), at the London Brewers’ Exhibition, for the best and newest specimens of this or any other kind. It is only just to say that these praiseworthy efforts have done good service, and in the next class considerable success has been achieved. Saccharinated Aerated Waters.—First amongst these ranks Lemonade, and next in importance is Ginger Ale, Orangeade and some others flavoured with vanilla and fruit-syrup bringing up the rear. The process of aerating is too intricate to be treated of in these pages, and the machinery required is too expensive Fig. 1. Aerating Machine. and troublesome for private use (see Fig. 1). The flavourings are given by syrups with essential oils. Thus, lemon syrup, composed of essence of lemon, citric acid, and syrup, gives Lemonade; orange syrup, Orangeade; and ginger syrup, often Aerated Water—continued. with essence of capsicum added to give it warmth, Gingerade, or Ginger Ale, as it is more frequently styled. It is not necessary to go further into the manufacture of these excellent beverages, for they are produced for us at a price that could not be rivalled by home preparation. They form, however, a very important factor in our table festivities, and in summer a goodly supply, iced, should be ready at hand at all times to refresh a visitor or guest. Soda, Potash, and Seltzer Waters, served with the spirit- flasks or claret, and Lemonade with sherry or Marsala, always betoken the liberality of the host. iESCULAF.—An artificial saline-aperient aerated me- dicinal mineral water, named after Aesculapius, the great father of healing. AFRICAN BEER.—The brewing of strong drink from grain has assumed a considerable importance in various parts of Africa, especially in Cairo, Tunis, Con- stantine, Algiers, Oran, Phillippeville, and other large towns, and is likely to increase considerably, since Mussul- man lovers of it have discovered that it is not specially proclaimed by the Khoran. The best African Beer is that brewed in Algiers, which is of a bright golden colour, and of pleasing flavour, though inclined to be over-sweet. That brewed in inferior breweries is of a dark colour, and none too pleasing in aroma or flavour, but seems to meet the requirements of the natives, in spite of its high cost— averaging about 5d. per half-pint glass. Experts believe that the prevalence of the sirocco in some way affects the quality of the African brewing; but the probabilities are that the fault lies with the workmen. See Beer. AFRICAN BITTERS.—A firm of manufacturers in Phillippeville, Algeria, produce a large quantity of a tonic bitter under this name. It is said to be compounded principally of bitter orange-peel, quinine or cinchona bark, quassia, gentian, and calumba root, macerated in spirits of wine, diluted, and sweetened with sugar. AGLIONO.—The name of a Piedmontese white wine. See Italian Wines. AGNELIiOTTO(I).—Hal. for a kind of mincemeat. Patties made of chopped meat, wrapped in pastry, and boiled in a good broth. Urbain-Dubois, formerly chef to the late King William of Prussia, gives the following receipt for preparing this fanciful dish: Agnellotti Turin.—Prepare a nouille-paste with lib. of flour, the yolk of one egg, a small piece of butter, and the water required to make a stiff paste. Trim a piece of cold braised beef, cut it up into small pieces, and chop it. Fry in a stewpan, with butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions, without allow- ing them to take colour. Moisten with a few gravy-spoonfuls of broth, and reduce to a glaze. Then put the pan back, and add the chopped meat to the onions. Introduce into this a handful of grated Parmesan cheese; season with salt and pepper, and let the preparation cool. In the meantime, divide the nouille- paste into two parts, and roll them out very thin. Take up the preparation in the stewpan with a spoon, and set small balls of it at short distances from each other on the first flat of paste. Moisten the paste, cover the first flat with the second, and press it down with your thumb between each of the small balls. Cut these flats with a pastry roulette into squares, which should be lifted with a palette-knife, and laid jon a floured napkin spread over a baking-sheet. A few minutes before serving, plunge the Agnellotti into boiling salt water, boil for a few seconds, and then draw the pan to one side, and in five or six minutes you can drain them. Whilst they are draining, clarify about lOoz. or 12oz. of butter, and add thereto J pint of good brown gravy. At the first bubbling, remove to one side, and drop in the Agnellotti. Pour the whole into a flat dish, and sprinkle freely with grated Parmesan cheese. AGNEW PUDDING.—See Puddings. AGRO DOLCE SAUCE.—Ital., literally, for “ bitter- sweet sauce ”; a great favourite in Italy, and served with a multitude of roast and baked dishes. The re-