215 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respectinj Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fig. 236. Temperature Regulator (Dairy Supply Co.). Butter—continued. Should the temperature he too low or too high, it must be raised or lowered by means of a Temperature Regu- lator (Fig. 236). This is simply a cylindrical tin, which may contain either hot water or ice, and by swinging it about in the milk or cream the degree of temperature may be raised or decreased according to the requirement. Having warmed the churn and regulated the tem- perature of the milk or cream, the next step is to partly fill the churn, and, after securing the opening, to commence a steady action of the handle, which will have to be kept up with great regularity for about an-hour-and- a-half for cream and at least three hours for milk. By that time the stiff working of the chum should indicate that the Butter has formed; but if not, the churning must be continued until it does. Milk and cream together require a much higher temperature than milk or cream separately (from 70deg. to 75deg.) —the reason of this not being clearly explained. Directly the Butter is won it should be removed from the churn and the butter-milk emptied out, and then the churn should be scalded again and thoroughly cleansed. The object of scalding the churn before putting in the cream is to prevent the Butter sticking to its sides. Should the Butter show an in- clination to do so, cold water may be poured into the churn to solidify and harden the Butter. After the Butter has been all removed from the churn, it has to be washed, pressed, worked up by the hand, or by a suitable machine, mixed with a small quantity of salt, and then made into pats, or stored in crocks, tubs, or baskets. The machines manufactured for Butter-working are almost .as diversified and numerous as the churns. The object is to break the Butter and squeeze out the butter-milk from the mass, and unless this is effectually accomplished the Butter is certain to turn rancid in a very short time. Even when the best results have been obtained, as might be ex- pected from using either of the two capital Butter-workers shown in the illustrations (Figs. 237 and 238), there is always a quantity of curd remaining in the Butter, which causes rancidity; but this our cooks provide against by what they call “ clarifying ” the Butter— and clarified Butter will keep good for an almost unlimited time. The very great use of Butter in the kitchen renders its quality a question of the first importance, and this depends as much upon the mode of manufacture as upon the quality of the milk. Butters vary considerably, and are known under different names, and classified according to merit; but it oftentimes requires an exceedingly clever judge to distinguish one Butter from another, or even pure Butter from that which is adulterated, for which Fig. 237. Bradeord’s Arch Albany Buttf.r-worker, with Helical Roller. Butter—continued. reason it is probable that cooks have in many instances given up using pure Butter in pastry and taken to margarine. The best Butters in the market are known as Jersey, Normandy, Brittany, Devon, Dorset, and Irish. Large quantities of Butter are imported, but unfortunately it is subject to adulterations, which in some cases render it unfit for human food, although in other cases the adul- terations are less important. According to Blyth, the most common adulteration is the incorporation of large quantities of water with the Butter. Professor Calvert, in his evidence before the Parliamentary Committee, stated that “the quantity of water and salt that such an article as Butter ought to contain is 24 per cent, of salt and 10 per cent, of water.” Mr. Wanklyn, however, gives the amount in fresh Devonshire Butter as 162 of water and 11 of salt; and in Normandy Butter the quantity of water is 16T, and that of salt P8, in 100 parts. Mr. Wanklyn examined a great many Butters supplied to the London workhouses; the amount varied from 8 6 to 237 parts of water in 100 parts of Butter, the samples containing the lowest and highest quantity being described as “ wretched.” Dr. Hassall has found as much as 35 per cent, of water in Butter, and Messrs. Angell and Hehner 42'35 per cent. A method said to Fig. 238. The Alderney Butter-worker (Dairy Supply Co.). be adopted by the trade to adulterate Butter is as follows: The Butter is brought to the melting-point, and water and salt are then stirred in until the mixture becomes cold. The inferior kind of Butter known as “bosh” is occasionally mixed with starch, generally potato-flour. The adulteration is only practised at a certain time, and depends on the wholesale price of Butter. Sir John Gordon, Mayor of Cork, in his evidence before the Parliamentary Committee, mentioned curds as an adulteration to which Butter is sometimes subjected. Animal fats are also occasionally used, such as lard, beef, mutton, veal, and horse fat. A process lias lately been devised by Mege Mouriez for mixing beef-suet with Butter. The beef-suet is melted in warm water with carbonate of potash and portions of fresh sheep’s stomachs. The fat thus separated from the cellular tissue is cooled and subjected to hydraulic pressure, when the oleo-margarine is separated from the more solid stearine (which is used for candle-making) and mixed with milk, with a little of the soluble matter obtained by soaking cows’ udders in milk and with annatto, and is then churned. This process, it is obvious, could only be practised on a large scale. Scraped carrots and annatto are the common substances used to colour Butter.