124 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. before a moderate and even fire. Strain tbe gravy out of the dripping-pan, take off the fat, and pour over the meat. Serve with potatoes and other vegetables. (5) A piece of meat from 201b. to 251b. makes a very handsome joint. Trim neatly by sawing off the tips of the chine-bones to make it set flat; saw also about 3in. from the tips of the ribs, merely sawing through the bones, and detach them from the meat, leaving a flap, which fold under and fix with wooden skewers, not, however, pulling it too tight, or it will cause the skin to crack in roasting. Boast from two-hours-and-a-lialf to three hours, unless very thick. For a cold joint, the ribs are better than the sirloin. (6) Cut off the three-rib piece near the short loin part of a piece of Beef, and saw off the spine, also the bones of the three ribs, to lin. from the meat, so as to have it as nearly a round shape as possible. Season with salt, sprinkled equally all over, tie it round, and place it lengthwise in a roasting-pan. Pour 1( table-spoonfuls of water into the pan so as to prevent burning, with a few very small bits of butter distributed on top of the Beef. Set it in a rather moderate oven, and roast for one hour and ten minutes, taking care to baste frequently with the gravy. Bemove it from the oven, untie, and dress it on a very hot dish. Skim the fat from the gravy, pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of broth, heat up a little, strain into a sauceboat, and send to the table. The parings from the Beef can be utilised for soup-stock, so that nothing need be wasted. Boasted Boiled Bibs of Beef.—Bemove the bones from the ribs of Beef, roll it up, fastening it with skewers, or tying it round with broad tape, and put it on a spit, a foot or so away from the fire, gradually moving it nearer as it cooks. Baste it frequently with dripping, and about twenty minutes before it is done, dust it over with salted flour, baste it with butter, and let it finish cooking. The time allowed is twenty minutes for each pound. When done, remove the tape and skewers, substituting silver or plated skewers for the wooden ones, put the meat on a dish, pour over rich gravy, and serve. The meat may be covered with a highly-seasoned breadcrumb forcemeat, and rolled up with it if desired. Boasted Bump of Beef.—This is a lovely joint for the winter months. It must be hung for from three weeks to a month if it is to be perfection. A rump weighing from 301b. to 351b. (Fig. 102, 2) is the best; it should be trimmed neatly, leaving all the fat upon it, for, taking so long to roast, should it be short of fat it would go to table dry. Boast it in a cradle-spit if you have one; it will take in this way from four-and-a-half to five hours’ cooking. Some cooks like to roast this joint in paste, and others wrap it up in several sheets of well-buttered paper, either of which must be removed twenty minutes before taking from the fire, so that the joint may be browned. The back of the rump is considered by some cooks to be the best and cheapest piece for roasting, as the meat is all good, and there is not so much bone as in other cuts. It is usually too large for a small family; but in cold weather it may be used to advantage, by cutting steaks from the thickest end, using the small end for a roast, and the bones for soup. Boasted Sirloin of Beef.—Hang a sirloin of Beef on a spit at about l(ft. from a clear fire, baste it well and frequently with dripping and its own fat, and let it remain until done; it will take about fifteen minutes for each pound. About twenty minutes previous to removing it from the fire, dust it over with salt and flour, and let it brown. When done, put it on a hot dish, pour over some hot rich gravy, or the liquor in the dripping-pan mixed with a little water, and serve with horseradish for garnish. Yorkshire pudding, either baked in the oven or cooked under the meat, should also accompany it. Boasted Sirloin-steak a la Duchesse.—Select a piece of tender sirloin; bone, pare, and trim it nicely, lard it over the top with a small larding-needle, and season with salt and pepper. Line a baking-dish with slices of fat pork, one sliced carrot, three or four well-cleaned parsley roots, one peeled and sliced onion, one sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf. Place the sirloin on top, and put it in the oven to roast for thirty minutes. Take it out from the oven when done, and set it on a hot dish. Mix § pint of broth, or consomme, Beef—continued. with the gravy, boil it for two minutes, skim the fat off, strain the gravy into a sauceboat, and serve. Boasted Sirloin-steak Larded.—Take a 41b. piece of top of sirloin (Fig. 144), bone it, and lard it—using a small larding-needle—with very thin pieces of fresh ham and truffles, all cut the same size, and put it into the oven to roast for thirty-five minutes; then lay it on a dish, trimming the meat carefully, the larded part being on the top. Pour over (- pint of hot Madeira sauce, and garnish with arti- choke bottoms filled with hot minced carrots, three bouchees filled with spinach, and three large game quenelles. Arrange these neatly round, and serve. Boiled Beef.—Take a slice of lean Beef weighing lib., and a similar slice of leg of veal. These slices should be cut across the fibre of the muscle, and be about (in. in thick- ness. Then take (lb. of fresh sausage-meat, and as much grated breadcrumbs soaked in milk as will fill an egg- shell, and mix these thoroughly together with a beaten egg. Sprinkle both the slices of meat with pepper and salt, and spread over them equally the sausage-meat, &c. Then roll up first the Beef, beginning at one end, exactly as you would a roly-poly pudding; then roll the slice of veal and its stuffing over the rolled-up Beef. Tie all together with a string. The Beef is put inside because it may be eaten more underdone than veal. Put the rolled meat into a stew- pan with a lump of butter, and when it is nicely browned outside, moisten with stock enough to cook it in. Let it stew for an hour-and-a-half or an hour-and-three-quarters, turning it from time to time. When done, place the rolled meat in its dish. Thicken the sauce with arrowroot, adding lemon-juice, mushroom®, and chopped parsley, boil it up, and pour over the meat. Boiled Beef-steaks.—(1) Beat a large tender steak thoroughly and carefully. Sprinkle over it salt somewhat freely, pepper, powdered sage, finely-minced onion, minced parsley, and bits of butter. Have ready some boiled potatoes, mashed fine and seasoned with butter and salt. Spread this thickly over the steak, roll up tightly, and fasten the ends and sides securely with skewers. Place the steak in a baking-pan with a little of any broth or meat gravy that may be handy; or pour 2 teacupfuls of boiling water, a small minced onion, pepper, salt, and a small slice of pork chopped small, round the tin, simmer, and baste thoroughly ; sift over it browned breadcrumbs, and serve hot, with a very little of the strained gravy round it. (2) Chop fine 12oz. of veal, put it into a mortar with 8oz. of lean ham or bacon and a small quantity of Beef- suet, pound the whole, and mix in a bunch of sweet heiiis, the thin rind of a lemon, both finely chopped, the well- beaten yolks of four eggs, a sprinkling of grated nutmeg, and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Put this mixture into a saucepan, stir well over the fire for about ten minutes, and then let it cool. Cut off two steaks weighing about lib. each, spread the veal forcemeat over, roll them round, fastening them with skewers, put them into a frying-pan with a small quantity of butter, and brown them. Put them into a saucepan with a few pickled mushrooms, pour over 2 table- spoonfuls of ketchup, the same of port wine, and 2 breakfast-