89 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Beans—continued. Black-Bean Soup.—The night before the soup is made, soak 1 pint of Black Beans in 3qts. of water. On the following morning, drain the water off the Beans and put them into a saucepan with 3qts. of fresh water. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let them simmer for six hours, when the water should be reduced to lqt. Put in with the Beans a bunch of sweet herbs, one large onion, a slice each of carrot and turnip, and a stalk of celery, all of which have been finely chopped and fried in butter. Add a small quantity of whole allspice, cloves, mace, and cinna- mon, and pour in lqt. of stock. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a frying-pan, and stir over the fire till brown ; then stir it into the soup, and keep it simmering for one hour. Put some slices of lemon in a soup-tureen, pour in the soup, straining it through a fine hair sieve, and serve it with a dish of egg balls. Boiled Black Beans.—Put 1 pint of these Beans into a basin of water, and soak for about three hours. Then put them into a saucepan of water, and boil for three hours. Take them out, drain them, put them into another saucepan with a few small pieces of bacon, a little each of chutney, mushroom ketchup, anchovy paste, and gravy, and cook well for about balf-an-bour. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with a garnish of boiled rice. In Brazil these Beans are cooked with various sorts of meat. Broad Beans (Fr. Feves; Gcr. Bolmen; Ital. Gavas; Sp. Habas).—These are grown in almost every kitchen garden or patch, and have a world-wide reputa- tion. They were known as a food to the early Egyptians and Greeks, and were possibly introduced into Britain by the Romans. They are cultivated in China and Japan, and most parts of Africa, and some of the better kinds are believed to have been transported by the Moors into Spain, and by the Portuguese into their own country. In Barbary these Beans ripen about February, and continue in bearing throughout the whole of the spring. When stewed with oil and flavoured with garlic, they form a food that is highly esteemed by all classes of the natives. In this country Broad or Windsor Beans are eaten in their fresh state, for when dried they are fit only for feeding horses and fattening pigs for bacon. The flour of Beans is largely used by dishonest millers to adulterate wheat-flour. It was found by Sir Humphrey Davy to con- tain 570 parts of nourishing matter out of every 1000: this is not so high as wheat, but it contains as a set-off a, much higher percentage of salts, such as potash and lime. The flesh-forming agent of Beans is legumin, or vegetable casein, and this is found in combination with sulphur and phosphorus. Blyth states that “both men and animals can be nourished on Beans alone for some time. Added to rice they form the staple food of large populations.” In cooking Broad Beans it is as well to remember, as a general precaution, that they should be boiled slowly and for a long time. Old Beans, no matter how long boiled, will not soften; in fact, on prolonged boiling they become harder. As a food, they are digestible in proportion to whether they are young or old: in the latter case, a large proportion passes through the system almost unaltered. As, in any case, they are liable to produce flatulency, it is better always to eat them Beans—continued. with spices and some fatty matter, such as bacon or butter. • Boiled Broad Beans.—(1) When young the Beans may simply he boiled in salted water, and served up with parsley and butter. When old, the external skin may be taken off after they have been boiled, and the green part well mashed over a gentle fire, adding butter and a little flour, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Parmesan or other cheese, grated over and heated by the salamander, adds materially to the flavour. Some pieces of boiled bacon, cut into shapes, may be set about instead of the cheese. (2) Shell very young and newly-gathered Beans as nearly as possible of one size. Boil them in plenty of fast-boiling salted water, with a sprig or two of savoury herbs. When boiled soft, drain them, and serve with the following sauce, either in a sauceboat, or poured over them : Mix 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour ; add 1 tumblerful of boiling water, pepper and salt to taste, and a handful of finely-chopped parsley. Stir continually whilst cooking, and when the sauce boils it is ready to be served with the Beans. (3) Boil the Beans in salted water. When nearly done, drain, and stew them in a little sauce, with a bunch of parsley and green onions, a little savoury, chopped very fine, and a small lump of sugar. When they are sufficiently cooked, throw them into a thickening made of the yolks of two eggs beaten up lightly with a little cream. Serve them with a savoury sauce. When the Beans are large, you must skin off the white coats and boil the green bodies in salted water. Cook them as for No. 4, not longer, and serve same way. (4) (After Soyer).—Take 2qts. of Beans directly they are shelled, and boil them nearly ten minutes in salted water. When done, drain them upon a sieve, and put them into a stewpan. Pour J pint of maitre-d’hotel sauce over them, and add a little chopped tarragon and powdered sugar. Warm up, and serve. Boiled. Broad Beaus and Bacon.—(1) Put a piece of streaky bacon into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, and boil for half-an-hour ; then add the required quantity of Beans, and continue to boil until they are done. Take them out, drain them, and serve very hot, either with the bacon or without, as desired. (2) Take a piece of streaky bacon, or back, and boil it for a couple of hours. When ready to send up, take off the rind, and braise the bacon over the top with a red-hot shovel or salamander. Powder the bacon over with raspings of bread, give it a pleasing shape, and lay it over the Beans, that have been boiled in salted water only, without any sauce. Send up separately in a boat some chopped parsley in melted butter. Beans, when young, are likewise an excellent garnish to a ham; servo them plain round it, and cook them as directed above. Broad Beans and Cream.—Boil full-grown shelled Broad Beans in salted water, with sprigs of summer savoury. When very nearly or quite done, drain them, peel off their skins (which French cooks call their robes), and put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter the size of a fowl’s egg, a dust of flour, the same of sugar, and a little parsley and summer savoury, chopped very fine. Give them a few minutes’ tossing in this, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. When all is well-heated, take up the Beans, pile them on a hot dish, thicken the cream with yolk of egg, pour it over them, and serve hot. French or Kidney Beans (Fr. Haricots verts; Ger. Grime Bolmen; Ital. Flaginoli; Sp. Habichuelas, Judias, Fig. 97. Dwarf or French Bean. Alubias verdes).—Whether as dwarfs (Fig. 97) or Scarlet- runners (Fig. 98), this vegetable has been a favourite of kings for centuries past. The first idea of cultivating the Scarlet-runner was for ladies’ bouquets, on account of the