73 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Banquets—continued. the same banners, the same epergnes, the same vases of flowers, the same towering ferns and raised pieces, the same fruit dishes, and often the same fruit—the funeral baked meats serving for the wedding-breakfast — no variety, no change. With but trifling alterations, the same list of dishes might be served from one month’s end to the other if Banquets had to be provided each day, which system may be considered one of profit to the caterer, and saving of labour, but contributing little or nothing to the genuine art of cookery. Indeed, there are many points in the present mode of serving Banquets which are radically wrong. They have sprung from habit or custom, and maintained their uncanny existence in spite of the acknowledged fact that they are inconvenient and unnecessary, because no host has yet had the audacity to drive them from his board. It is the fashion—it must therefore be slavishly followed; it is the custom—let it abide. But one of the prime objects of this Encyclopaedia is to introduce and advocate culinary reforms; and so, in giving our notions of what a Banquet should be, and how it should be served, we rely upon our own views, without regard to the established errors of others. The hall should certainly be decorated with quiet designs, and the walls duly draped with trophies; but as the details must depend entirely upon cir- cumstances, it will be sufficient here to say that there should be nothing about these wall deco- rations so striking as to attract the eye from the table. Nor should the walls or ceilings be dazzlingly bright, or beautiful, for in that case the table may pale in comparison. Let them be rich if you will, but sombre. The tables should not be more than 4ft. wide, so as to permit conversation between opposite guests; indeed, the tables are better if only 3ft. or 3ft. 6in. in width, for they take up so much less room and allow more for guests, besides requiring infinitely less materials to make a display. The position of the tables has always been a sorry feature of a Banquet, however well-conducted in other respects, and leads occasionally to much irritation between guests and waiters. For instance, a favourite plan is to place two, three, or more long tables parallel in the length of the room, and a head or top table at right angles to these, close upon them, or touching (Fig. 76). In this way those unfortunate guests who happen to be placed in the cuts de sac so formed, will probably fare badly—first because the waiters have some difficulty in reaching them; and when they do get up so far, the dishes they bring with them that ought to be hot, are cold. One reason for this close-up arrangement is possibly that it prevents guests from seating themselves at the lower side of the top table, and thus the chairman preserves a full view of his guests; but this can be secured quite as well by a little good management and the provision of plenty of room; for it is a good axiom rather to lay too many covers than not enough, but rather be one or two short than have rows of empty chairs. The top or cross table should just be sufficiently far away from the ends of the long tables to allow waiters to pass freely to and fro. On special occasions, when distinguished visitors are present, the top table should be raised upon a dais or platform not more than 6in. from the floor. A cross table should be also laid at the bottom end of the long tables at a similar distance from the lower ends of the long tables, and a special chair placed for the vice- chairman, who should also have a clear view of the guests, and face the chairman. Under this collective heading it will not be possible to give more than a few general ideas of how a Banquet should be conducted, special feasts being treated under their respective headings, such as Ball-suppers, Banquets—continued. Dinnebs, Luncheons, Picnics, Wedding-break- fasts, &c. It is not to be supposed that a hall can be altered to suit present requirements if these were overlooked at the first building; but as in these days of rebuilding and altering, the opportunity might occur at one time or another of building a banqueting-room on a strictly modern plan, the following suggestions may be found useful, especially for large hotels, now that the fashion is so rapidly growing of private persons entertaining guests upon special occasions at an hotel rather than have the fuss and worry at home. The chamber should be oblong, not square, and lighted from the roof, either by electricity or gas. The old- fashioned candelabra were very well before other illumi- nants were known, and are no doubt ornamental; but the glare from the light is too near the line of sight, and therefore dazzling and uncomfortable to the guests. Fig. 77 shows a typical plan of a banqueting-room with a convenient arrangement of the tables. A is the “ chair ”; b the “ vice-chair ”; and c c crescent-shaped tables, backs to screens, built in stages, to hold glasses, Fig. 77. Plan of Banqueting-Room and Tables Conveniently Arranged. knives and forks, plates, decanters, cruets, and other ware—it should have no square corners, or a clumsy waiter in his hurry may run against it, to his own injury and that of the goods placed upon it. A long buffet arrangement may be used instead, but usually occupies too much room, e is the grand entrance for guests; f, private entrance for the chairman and special guests, who will have previously congregated in an ante-room; G G are lavatories; and d the kitchen entrance, which should be quite clear from the guests, and where all used plates, knives, forks, and other goods should be carried out, and the carvers’ dishes (on wheels) loaded. Let each man have his work to do, and see that he does it. This applies to cooks, carvers, and waiters. At the entrance E should be hung in a conspicuous place on the back of the screen, plans of the room, with every cover numbered or indited with the name of the guest. This will save a great deal of confusion, and enable all to be seated at the sound of a gong, when the chairman and special guests will enter at f, Grace be speedily said, and the service of the soups commenced. Smoking