202 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred fo, see under their special heads. BROCCOIiI (Fr. Brocoli).—Of all the Cabbage tribe (Brassica oleracea) there are none so highly esteemed by cooks as this sub-variety of the cauliflower [B. o. botrytis). As its name indicates, it is of Italian origin, and is known in that favoured country as (singular) broccolo, (plural) broccoli, which has doubtless led to the confusion of tongues between the educated classes—who style it per- sistently, whether singular or plural, “ broccoli,”—and the uneducated masses—who call it “ brockilo,”—both being equally right and wrong. Broccoli is much hardier than cauliflower, and its chief varieties are the green, purple, and dwarf kinds, although there are as many as thirteen cultivated by our market-gardeners. In the culture of no vegetable has so marked and rapid an improvement taken place as in that of Broccoli. A hard white variety of recent production is considered of much finer flavour as well as of handsomer appearance than either the green or the purple (see Fig. 215). Broccoli are in season through- out the winter, and the earliest spring crop follows so closely upon the winter growth that no cessation need take place in the supply, and only does so because of the abundance of other vegetables during two or three months of the year. It is more costly to cultivate than cabbage, wherefore its price is not likely to fall to that level. The head should be large, round, flattish on top, and the flower as close and white as foam. Boiled Broccoli.—(1) Remove the outer leaves, wash the flowers well in salt and water, and put them in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, but do not put the lid on. Boil for ten or fifteen minutes, according to size. When done, they should be drained at once, or they will go a bad colour. Serve with melted butter. (2) American Style.—Soak the Broccoli for an hour in salted water, put into hot water, and boil till half done, after which add as much milk as there is water, and finish cooking. Cut it up, and season with butter, pepper, and salt; or serve whole with vinegar. Boiled Broccoli served with Buttered Eggs.—Put three heads of Broccoli, one larger than the others, into a pan of salted water, and soak them for about an hour to remove the worms or insects, if any; then put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and cook for about fifteen minutes with the lid off. In the meantime, put jdb. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, and mix in half a-dozen well-beaten eggs, working well until the mixture has the consistence of cream. Have ready several slices of toasted or fried bread, put them close together on a dish, pour over the egg mixture, place the large Broccoli on the top in the centre, and the other two cut up in pieces and used as a garnish. Serve very hot. Broccoli with Parmesan Cheese.—Well wash a Broccoli, trim it, and boil it in plenty of hot water, with a little salt, being careful not to boil it too much; about ten minutes Broccoli—continued. will do it. When the stem is soft, it is done ; then put it on a hair sieve to drain. When quite cold, cut it up neatly and carefully, put the roughest pieces on a flat buttered dish, so as to form a foundation, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, and cover it well with grated Parmesan cheese ; put the remaining pieces on the top, add more pepper, salt, and nutmeg, cover with grated Parmesan, then add a few baked breadcrumbs, and pour over all a little warmed butter. Bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a quick ayen, and serve. Broccoli with White Sauce.—(1) Take a couple of Broccoli, cut off the stalks and leaves close, and put them head down- wards into a saucepan full of boiling salted water. When done, heat a pudding-basin, pick the Broccoli out into sprigs, and arrange them in it head downwards. Press them in gently, turn them out on a dish, and pour over the following sauce boiling hot: Put into a saucepan 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, let it melt, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of flour, adding i pint of boiling water ; stir till it thickens, then put salt and white pepper to taste ; take the saucepan off the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up with the juice of a lemon and strained. (2) Cut off all the green leaves, and wash well, taking care to remove all insects, which are often found near the heart, and leave the Broccoli in cold water for about an hour; then throw it into boiling water, with a little salt and butter. This vegetable is soon cooked ; but if you wish to use it underdone, remove it from the fire when only half done, for if left in, the water will soon finish it. Drain, and put in a dish with white sauce over it, as for No. 1. (3) Wash well, and throw into cold water as before, with plenty of salt over them ; put them into a saucepan with hot salt and water, and boil till the stalks are tender. The heads should not be too large, and the best are close and firm. When done, arrange some well-shaped Brussels sprouts upon the crest of a border of mashed potatoes, and set the Broccoli in the centre ; pour over white sauce as for No. 1, and serve very hot. Pickled Broccoli.—The Broccoli should not be quite ripe, but they should be large, white, and very close. Cut off all the outside pieces and green leaves; then partially boil the Broccoli in salt and water with a little white vinegar in it to keep the flower white. When well drained, separate the branches into convenient-sized pieces, and put them in a jar. Boil in a lined saucepan 1 pint of white vinegar, 1 table- spoonful of salt, loz. of whole ginger, and 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns; after a few minutes’ boiling, let it cool, and pour over the Broccoli when cold. This pickle must be increased in quantity according to the amount of Broccoli to be pickled. BROCHAN.—Scotch for “ porridge.” BROCHE.—Fr. for the “ spit,” or sharp-pointed rod of iron upon which poultry and meat are threaded to be roasted before the fire. Hence the term d la broche signifies roasted. The lady’s “ brooch ” derives its name from this word, the pin representing the spit. BROCHETTES. — Fr. for small strips of wood, skewers, iron rods, or straws, upon which little delicacies, such as candied fruits, are strung. See Aiguillettes. Brochettes of Candied Emits and Pastes.—All kinds of half-dried preserved fruits, such as cherries, small plums, sliced pine-apple, &c., or different kinds of fruit pastes, stamped out small and dried, may be used; pierce these through with a large-sized bradawl, then run them upon straws (or delicately- cut splinters of wood will serve the same purpose); about lin. space should be loft between each piece. Wire or wooden rests must be placed in the candying-pan to keep the Brochettes from going to the bottom, which is not de- sirable, and the method of Candying; is precisely the same as described under that head. Receipts for Savoury Brochettes will be found under Eels, Lamb, Lobsters, Oysters, Sheep's Kidneys, and Turkeys. BRODCHEN.—Ger. for “little bread”; hence brod- chen comes to signify “ sandwich.”