29 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Apples—continued. juice of a large lemon and 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon. Boil till it is all a mass, and then turn out into a wet mould to stand until cold. Serve with hoiled custard or flavoured cream. Apple Devil.—Pare and core two or three dozen cooking Apples, cut them into rings or slices, and put at once into a saucepan with a little cold water, adding their equal weight in crushed loaf sugar, the strained juice and thin rind of a couple of lemons, 1 teaspoonful of cayenne, and 2oz. of ground ginger. Put the saucepan over a moderate fire, and boil until the Apples are done and quite clear. Put the Apples into jars, and they will keep good for years. When wanted for use, arrange them on a dish, heap over them white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, with a little crushed and sifted loaf sugar, and brown in the oven for a few minutes. Serve hot or cold, as desired. Apple Drink.—Invalids are generally fond of this. Throw 2 table-spoonfuls of clean rice into 2qts. of boiling water, and add quickly half-a-dozen Apples, jieeled, cored, and sliced very thin. Boil for an hour, then pass the liquor through a colander, pressing the rice and Apples with a spoon, but not squeezing them through. When cold it may bo drunk with impunity in almost any stage of illness, and in some cases it may be iced. Some persons prefer it sweetened with powdered loaf sugar, but it does not then quench thirst so readily. Apple Dumplings.-—These favourite British dainties are almost unknown, or unnoticed, by foreign cooks, and, according to history, created great astonishment in the mind of George III., who exclaimed when he saw them : “ Oh ! Goody, Goody, how did the apples get in f ” Prom this circumstance they are sometimes called “Apples en surprise.” They are either baked or boiled, the pastry in each case being made to suit the cooking. Baked Dumplings are made with a good short or tart crust. First pare the Apples whole, and then cut out the core by means of a sharp, thin knife, or a corer. Fill up the cavity with sugar, butter, and a little cinnamon, or a clove. Cut some rounds of paste rather larger than the Apples, and cover the fruits, leaving no cracks. A better plan, perhaps, is to roll out the paste to the required thickness (jin.), and put an Apple under it, closing, and pinching' off the pastry underneath. The dumplings should be baked in a pan ; the juice is certain to ooze out of some of them, and should not be wasted, for by adding a little sugar, butter, and nutmeg, it forms a capital sauce to serve with or over the dumplings. Before the dumplings are quite done -—they take about an hour in a quick oven—the tops may be damped and a little sugar sprinkled over to give a glaze. In America these dumplings are baked in a deep baking- dish nearly full of a rich sauce, made of 1 pint of water, Jib. of sugar, a piece of butter the size of a fowl’s egg, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. With this syrup the dumplings should be well covered, and a little poured over before serving. Boiled Dumplings are best made with a good puff paste, and are universally made and served in America thus: (1) Pare some large Apples, cut them into quarters, and take out the cores very neatly. Take a piece of crust and roll it large enough for an Apple. Boll the crust round each, and make them round like a ball. Have a pot of water boiling: take a clean cloth, dip it in the water, and shake flour over it. Tie each dumpling by itself, and plunge them into the water, which is still boiling. If your crust is light and good, and the Apples not too large, half-an-hour will be long enough to boil them; but if the Apples are large, they will require nearly an hour. Serve with fresh butter and sugar; or the butter and sugar may be melted together to make a sauce. A little essence of lemon or orange improves the flavour of the sauce. In Scotland the paste is sometimes baker’s dough, and the dumplings are boiled in a fine net. They look very pretty when served. (2) Another American Apple Dumpling is made thus : Take 3 pints of flour, 1J pints of milk, 1 large table-spoonful of butter, one egg, and as many Apples (chopped fine) as the batter will take. Work into a pudding, and divide into dump- lings of the required size. Boil for two hours in a well-floured cloth. The water should be boiling when the dumplings Apples—continued. are dropped in, and should be kept boiling all the while until they are done, or else they will be heavy. These should be eaten with sugar, butter, and lemon. Apple Flawn.— (1) This is made with short paste, prepared as follows: Mix well together fib. of butter to each pound of flour, the yolks of three eggs, 4 table-spoonfuls of finely- powdered sugar, a tiny pinch of salt, and a little water. After it has stood for a time in a cool place, covered with a cloth, it will be ready to use. Line a flawn-circle, cut the paste at the level of the top, mask the bottom of the flawn with a layer of orange marmalade, then fill the hollow with good Apple Marmalade, flavoured and well sweetened. Over this put a lat- tice of strips of paste, crossing one another from side to side (see Fig. 31); “solder” these to the edge of the paste by moistening the ends and pressing gently down, and cover the joins by a ring of paste, ornamented by nipping into points with a pair of well-floured scissors or a knife. Egg the surface of the paste, and push into a slack oven, baking for about thirty-five minutes. Before the flawn is quite done, take it from the oven and sprinkle freely with powdered sugar, returning it to complete, and glaze. Let it cool before removing the mould. (2) A simpler method of making Apple Flawns is to cut up some Apples into quarters, peel, core, and mince them, put them into a basin, sprinkle some sugar over them, and let them macerate together for half-an-hour or so, tossing them occasionally. Place a flawn-circle on a baking-sheet, and line it with tartlet paste. Sprinkle over the Apples some powdered sugar, well flavoured with orange essence, and after the sugar throw over the lot 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of well-cleansed currants. Spread this mixture in the flawn-case, and heap it up to a dome above the rim, or it will sink below in cooking. It is usual to cover the Apples with a flat of the same pastry, to prevent them from burning in baking. A moderate oven is sufficient, and forty minutes’ baking should be enough. When done, take the flawn out of the oven, and remove the upper paste; and when it is cooled down a little, mask the contents with good icing-sugar. Bernove the circle before serving. Apple Float.—Bub lqt. of stewed Apples through a coarse sieve, or mash them thoroughly. Sweeten with G table- spoonfuls of sugar, and flavour with nutmeg; add this, a spoonful at a time, to the well-beaten whites of four eggs. Put 1 pint of cream, seasoned with sugar and nutmeg, at the bottom of your dish, and put the Apples on top. Put in the oven for twenty minutes, and serve either hot or cold. Apple Fool.—Peel and core as many Apples as may be re- quired, and add Jib. of sugar to every 2qts. of fruit. Stew in sufficient water to cover, and when quite tender pass through a coarse sieve. If not sweetened to taste, add more sugar, and lqt. of new milk warmed, 1 teacupful of cream, and a well-beaten egg. Let this milk and egg thicken in the stewpan, and when cold add the fruit and stir all to- gether. This may be served cold or hot. Apple Fritters.—(1) Peel and core the Apples, and cut in slices about -jin. thick. Dip in the batter, and fry for six minutes in boiling fat. Serve on a hot dish. The Apples may be sprinkled with sugar and a little nutmeg, and allowed to stand for an hour before being fried. In that case, sprinkle them with sugar when you serve them. (2) Peel the Apples; slice them across into rounds, after removing the cores. Dip them in batter, and fry to a light brown and until tender. Pile them regularly in the dish, and dust with sugar before serving. Oil is the best to fry them in; but whatever fat is used, it is of no use attempting fritters unless you have plenty of it. Some steep the sliced Apples for a time in brandy or rum before dipping them into the batter, which is an excellent plan. (3) Take lib. of flour, J pint of milk or water, Jib. of butter (melted), and mix well together; smooth this with a little table beer. Whisk the whites of three eggs stiff, and stir in gently. Have six Apples peeled, and the cores taken out; cut in slices Jin. thick, dip in the batter, and fry in hot lard for about six