THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 148 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Biscuits—continued. syrup is cold, make a well or bay in the flour and pour it in, mixing gradually into a stiff dough; break carefully (see Fig. 149), and then fill the “ blocks,” stamps, or moulds with the dough, trimming off with a knife. Shake the Biscuits out of the moulds on to lightly-buttered baking- sheets (the half-kernels on one and the same number of half-shells on the other), put into a quick oven, and bake the kernels a shade or two lighter brown than the shells. Dip the kernels in white of egg and lay correctly and accu- rately on the shell halves, and put before the fire in a screen, or in a very slow oven, just to set firm. These make a very pretty dish, or garnish for jellies, creams, &c. Washington Biscuits.—As the name indicates, these are American favourites, and are made as follows : Beat up five yolks of eggs with Jib. of caster sugar, 2oz. of blanched and powdered sweet almonds, and J wineglassful of rum; then add 2oz. of cornflour (Oswego), and stir in the whites of five eggs, having previously beaten them stiff; lastly, mix in 2oz. of highly-dried, finely-sifted flour. Put the mixture into small round buttered biscuit-tins, and bake in a moderately quick oven. When done, spread apricot jam over each, and dip in transparent icing flavoured with curaijoa. White Biscuits.—Bub .jib. of lard into 3jib. of fine Biscuit- flour, add ljlb. of moist sugar and 2oz. of finely-powdered ammonia, and make into a dough with milk. Take a small portion of the dough at a time and work it into a square or round shape, roll it out a little thicker than a penny-piece, cut out in any varieties of shapes (see Figs. 156, 157), having previously well docked the sheet, put on buttered baking- tins, brush over with milk, and strew a few currants on the top. Bake in a sharp oven. Wine Biscuits.—(1) Bub Jib. of butter into 21b. of flour, make a bay, pour in about J pint of water, take in the flour and butter by degrees and shake it all up. In “shaking up” these Biscuits, when the dough is mixed, let your two thumbs meet in its substance, giving the mixture a shake-up in the air over your knuckles, and repeating the process until you have all the dry flour worked in and the mixture is nice and moist; and the more you shake-up, the better Biscuits you will have. Bake on a wire tray (see Fig. 165) in a quick oven. (2) Bub lib. of butter into 21b. of flour, add Jib. of caster sugar, and make into a firm dough with milk; break (see Fig. 149) and roll out thin, and stamp out into different sizes and shapes (see Fig. 156); lay these on buttered baking-sheets, brush the tops over with milk, sprinkle caraway-seeds over, and bake in a quick oven. Brush over with white of egg to finish. (3) Mix 8oz. of flour with 6oz. of butter by rubbing together ; add 6oz. of pounded loaf sugar, one egg, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Make into a paste and roll out thin, cutting into shapes (see Fig. 156); set on buttered baking-sheets, and bake in a quick oven. York Biscuits.—Bub Jib. of butter into 21b. of flour, add lib. of caster sugar and 4 pint of milk, and mix into a dough. Boll this out Jin. thick, cut it in long ribands, and then crosswise into diamond shapes or squares, dock them (see Fig. 152) or roll on a crimping-board (see Fig. 159), and bake in a sharp oven. For some other so-called Biscuits see Cakes and Special Headings. BISHOP.—Amongst the drinks made from spiced wines this is to be found, and it has been honoured for centuries past. Swift writes as follows: Fine oranges, Well roasted, with sugar and wine in a cup, They’ll make a sweet Bishop when gentlefolks sup. When made with Burgundy or Bordeaux wine, Professor Simmonds informs us, it is called “Bishop”; when old Rhine wine is used, it receives the name of “Cardinal”; and when Tokay is employed, it is distinguished by the appellation of “ Pope.” (1) Pour a bottle of any red wine into a saucepan, add 2oz. of loaf sugar, the rind of an orange or lemon cut as thin as possible, and six cloves ; make' the mixture as hot as possible Bishop—continued. without boiling, strain it into a jug or basin, and it is ready for use. (2) Cut a large orange into rather thick slices, and stick twelve cloves into one of the end pieces; sprinkle caster or crushed loaf sugar between the slices, and put them together again; set the orange before the fire and toast it well, browning without scorching. Warm a bottle of medium-class claret in a large lined saucepan or muller, and dissolve in it before boiling Jib. of loaf sugar. When the wine is hot, put the orange in a Bishop-bowl, and pour the wine over the slices. This should be served very hot. If a larger quantity is required, half-a-dozen bitter oranges should be used, and each should be studded with twelve cloves before being set before the fire to roast. Cut the oranges into halves, and put them in a large bowl, pouring the hot sweetened wine (six bottles) over as before. Put the cover on, and lay cloths over all, leaving this for some hours to digest. Half-an-hour before this Bishop is re- quired, strain off the liquor, squeezing the oranges thoroughly by pressing them witli a silver spoon. Warm up again, replace in the warmed bowl, cover over, and serve. (3) Slice two large lemons, and roast them before the fir6. In the meantime, heat up a bottle of claret, sweeten as it warms with Jib. of loaf sugar, and add the slices of lemon. Just before sending to table, drop into the Bishop 1 table- spoonful of bay rum, and its redolence will pervade the whole building like an incense offered before the shrine of Bacchus. Heidelberg- Bishop.—Pour a bottle of red wine (Bkenish) into a saucepan, stir in 2oz. of loaf sugar, the thin rind of half a lemon, six coriander-seeds, a very small stick of cinnamon, and 1 wineglassful of kirschenwasser. Make the mixture as hot as possible without boiling, strain it into any vessel desired, and it is ready for use. Iiawn Sleeve. — This is prepared almost in the same way as Bishop. Prick or pierce over the rind of a medium-sized lemon, and in the holes insert cloves; place the lemon in front of the fire and roast it. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water into a saucepan, season with cloves, mace, allspice, and cinnamon, using them in equal proportions, and boil until the liquor is reduced to 1 teacupful. Put a bottle of Madeira or sherry wine into a saucepan with 3 or 4 wine- glassfuls of hot calf’s-foot jelly, boil well, ignite it to burn away a little of the spirit, put in the roasted lemon and the spiced liquor, stir well, and remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, where it will keep hot without boiling, for ten minutes or so. With a few lumps of sugar rub off a little of the rind of a lemon, put them into a tankard or jug, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, not using the one that was roasted, pour in the wine mixture, sweeten to taste, grate over a little nutmeg, and serve. Oranges can be used instead of lemons, but they are not so good. The calf’s-foot jelly used for this should be as plain as possible, and not seasoned. BISK (Fr. Bisque; Ger. Kraftsuppe).—A term that is not very often met with in modern cookery. It is described as having been formerly a very favourite Con-