213 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For detads respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Burgoo—continued. stew, and is exceedingly palatable and nourishing. It should be made in the open air, as follows: Put some red peppers in the bottom of a large iron cauldron, with potatoes, tomatoes, and corn; then put in half-a-dozen prairie chickens, as many more tender “ yellow- legs,” and two dozen soft-shelled crabs; also some young squirrels if you can get any. Moisten with water till the solid contents begin to float; then hang the pot over the fire, and let the contents simmer for six hours, stirring con- tinuously with a hickory stick. The hickory stick is believed to be best, although there seems to bo no valid reason why it should be selected in preference to any other. About an hour before it will be ready to serve, season with salt to taste; and when the meats are falling off the bones, the Burgoo is done. BURGUHDY.—Tliis is the name applied generally to a class of French wines having an acid astringent taste and fine full grape flavour. They are produced principally in the departments of Cote d’Or, Rhone, Saone-et-Loirc, and Tonne; and are known commercially as Chambertin, Clos-Yougeot, Romanee-Conti, Corton, Pommard, Meursault, Montrachet, and others of less importance. Although Burgundy wines are of consider- able table and culinary value, it is to be feared that a great bulk of that sold to us in this country under that distinguished name are but sorry concoctions, in which the real Burgundy grape takes no part. See Wines. SUBNET (Salad Burnet or Garden Burnet).— A sweet herb, once used in salads and sauces. The following mixture was employed to make a ravigote, or pick-me-up: tarragon, Burnet, chives, and chervil. BUB>B> ARTICHOKE.- See Artichokes (Globe). BURT {Fr. Bertonncau).—A flat fish of the turbot kind, sometimes also known as Bret, Brit, or Brut. The flesh is inferior to the turbot, but superior to the plaice, between which two fish it appears to lie a cross-breed. Baked Burt.—Prepare a largo Burt as for Pried Burt. Butter a baking-tin thoroughly, and put in the fish, together with 1 pint of white wine, 2 pinches each of salt and pepper, and bake in the oven for twenty minutes. Place into a quart saucepan loz. of butter and loz. of flour, put it on the fire, and stir for two minutes; then add 1 pinch of salt, 1 small pinch of pepper, and 3 gills of water; pour the liquor from the Burt into this sauce, and boil up for one minute ; then add 1 table-spoonful each of butter and chopped parsley, and move off the fire, stirring till the butter is melted. Lay the fish gently on a flat dish, and pour some of the sauce over and the rest round the fish, or serve in a separate tureen. Garnish with slices or sections of lemon, and parsley. Burt au Gratin.—Clean and scrape the fish, remove the fins, and wash it thoroughly. Spread a thick layer of butter in a gratin-pan, put in the fish with 1 teacupful of water and the strained juice of a lemon, season with salt and pepper (about a teaspoonful of each), and bake it in the oven for twenty minutes. Put loz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan, stir it over the fire until mixed but not browned, then pour in 1)- breakfast-cupfuls of water, and continue stirring it over the fire until boiling. When the fish is cooked, strain its liquor into the sauce, add a small handful of finely-chopped parsley and loz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until the butter has dissolved. Put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Fried Burt.—Remove the gills, clean out the inside, take off the black skin, scrape the other side, and wash and dry the fish. On the side that has been scraped make an incision 5in. deep down each side of the backbone, steep the fish in milk for ten minutes, then flour well on both sides ; or brush it over with egg and breadcrumb it. Put it in a large pan with plenty of fat, and fry slowly till it is of a golden colour; drain it, sprinkle lightly with salt, put it on a napkin placed on a dish, and garnish with fried parsley and lemons cut in slices, halves, or quarters. BUETAS.-The Indian name for mashes of potatoes, vegetables, cold meats, fisli, &c., usually served as ac- companiments to curry and rice. BUSECA.—This is literally the Italian for a dish composed of the internal parts of an animal, such as tripe, which is only used to form a basis, as it were, of a very tasty dish. The following receipt is contributed by a distinguished cook. Put in a saucepan 1 pint of minced raw vegetables, adding J- pint of chopped celery; let this steam gently for about ten minutes, then moisten with 3 pints of white broth, and stir in Rb. of finely-shred tripe; season with \ table- spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Cook thoroughly for twenty-five minutes, and serve with a little grated cheese on a separate dish. BUSH TEA.—The leaves of the South African Cyclopia genistoides are dried and used under this name for the purpose of making a beverage which has much of the flavour and taste of the Chinese teas, to which it is sometimes added as an adulteration. See Tea. BUSTARI)(S) {Fr. Bistarde(s); It. Ottardo(i); Sp. Avutarda(s)).—A bird of the ostrich species, and the largest land bird known in Europe. It is not often met with, and still more rarely enters the kitchen for culinary purposes, although by some its flesh is considered little inferior to that of the wild turkey. Braised Bustard.—As this bird is apt to be tough, it is a good plan to braise it. See Braising. Bustards in Russian Style.—Pick, singe, and draw two or three fat young Bustards, truss them, and with a sharp knife make a slit down the breasts. Stuff these incisions with butter, dredge the birds over with salt and pepper to taste, cover them with thin slices of bacon and flour-and-water paste, brush the whole over with yolk of egg beaten with a little salt, put them in a baking-pan in a moderate oven, and bake. Take them out when done, put them on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich and thick brown gravy. Roasted Bustard.—Pick and draw a Bustard, singe off the small feathers, truss, and dress it. Lard it, wrap it in a sheet of greased paper, put it on a spit in front of a clear fire, and roast it. Boil or otherwise cook the liver of the bird, pound it in a mortar, and mix in a little of the drippings from the roast, with a small quantity of lemon-juice; sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and warm the preparation in a saucepan. Put the bird on a dish, removing the paper, and servo with the sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Bustard.—Let the Bustard hang in a cool, airy place for a few days; then pluck, draw, and clean it, tip the wings and cut off the neck; cut the thighs from the back, and the back from the breast; lard the thighs and breast with bacon, season, put in an earthen pan, pour over f pint of malt vinegar, and let them soak for twenty-four hours. Cover the bottom and sides of a stockpot with thin layers of fat bacon, slice a few small onions, and dress over the bacon with two calf’s feet blanched and boned, 1 pinch each of cloves, pepper- corns, and aromatics scattered about, and then put in the backbone and legs, with the breast, previously drained, laid on the top; moisten with white wine to about half their height, and cover all with thin slices of fat bacon. Set the stockpot in hot ashes to about half its height, and let the bird stew until it is quite tender, which will take about six or seven hours. When done, take it carefully out, and dish it with the vegetables and calf’s feet. Skim off all the fat from the stock, and pour over the meat. BUTTER (Anglo-Saxon Buter; Ger. Butter; Fr. Beurre; Ital. Burro; Sp. Manteca).—Butter is described in the dictionary as “ an oily, unctuous substance, obtained from milk by churning.” It consists of t-lie fatty portions of the milk brought together into a mass; the oil globules of the cream with their albuminous surroundings having been broken up by agitation. This is effected by means of machinery, which has so improved in modern times that it is one of the prides of the engineer’s art. The old-fashioned method of laying out the milk to cream in large flat crocks, and skimming off the surface, is super- seded by a machine called a “ separator,” which separates I the cream from the milk, by the turning of a wheel or ! handle. The milk is poured in and the machine set going,