82 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. tces. dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, * Basil, Sweet—continued. and let them steep for ten days. If too strong, pour some of the vinegar off into other bottles, and add more fresh hot vinegar to the herbs; cork the bottle, seal it down, and keep Fig. 85. Sweet Basil. it in a cool store cupboard; at the end of two weeks it will be ready for use. Basil vinegar is often used in salads where a very high seasoning is desirable. BASIN (Fr. Bassin; Ger. Becken, from which we get “ beaker ”; Ital. Bacino).—It would he almost impos- sible to describe the varieties of basins used in the kitchen. They are manufactured of all sorts and sizes, for all sorts of purposes, and of different materials—china, earthenware, tin, iron, and more recently of a material called “ steel-pulp,” resembling papier-mache, but much harder, very light, and indestructible. BASKETS (Fr. Corbeilles).—The multitude of designs and styles in which these vessels for carrying fruits and other dessert are made, is almost incalculable. They are manufactured of glass, china, gold, and silver, and sometimes of two or three of these combined. Some confectioners make them for themselves of almond-paste, sugar, the rinds of oranges, and a variety of less harm- less materials; but their efforts rarely attain to the dignity of art, and it is the opinion of many of our best cooks that they would do better to leave such fragile imitations alone. Francatelli excelled in making Baskets of sugar, and filling them with nougats and imitation fruits; but with the exception of Ude (in a small way), the principle does not seem to have met with much favour where it might have been most expected. The custom of setting in the centre of the dinner-table a handsome candelabra, or stand of flowers, can be better replaced by a stand or basket of fruit in tiers. A Basket of fruit (see Fig. 87), rich, abundant, and varied in its selection, relieved by vine or other leaves, gives to a dinner-table arranged a la Russe, an aristocracy Baskets—continued. of decoration which depends for its measure upon the elegance of the Basket and the beauty of the fruit. Dubois advises that when arranging a Basket of fruit for a dinner-table, only “the freshest, the rarest, and the most beautiful kinds should be selected,” but many of our commonest fruits, such as blackberries, barberries, and others equally simple, can be made to add elegance to a Basket if arranged by a master-hand. The sort and colour of fruits to be chosen must, of course, depend on the season; but they should he of as great a variety, and as diversified in tint, as possible. In short, “ such a Corbeille of fruit represents a portable garden in minia- ture, whereon the eye and the palate may be equally gratified.” When the available fruit is large, such as pears, apples, or pine-apples; they ought to be removed from the Basket to be cut up, and then should be handed round on plates; or pine-apples may be arranged ready peeled and sliced, and large pears quartered without being peeled. Several of these Baskets, of different styles, sizes, and patterns, may be arranged on one table. Sometimes it is advisable to arrange a Basket of one kind of fruit only, such as of grapes, apples, peaches, &c., Fig. 87. Basket of Fruit. and then vine and other ornamental leaves may he made to set it off. Grapes are especially useful to the table- decorator, for they can be made to hang from handles and artificial arches, and nuts of all kinds can, by a little ingenuity, be arranged with dried brown and bronzed leaves to form an elegant dish for table ornamentation. A clever artist has a wealth of decorative material in Baskets of fruit or flowers. Modem ingenuity has enabled enterprising caterers to contrive vehicles capable of conveying food, and the necessary utensils for serving it, in such a compact form, that whilst no space is lost, every detail is provided for. Railway Baskets are now supplied upon many lines, which contain all that the heart can desire, without any further trouble to the traveller than a message to the station where he proposes to refresh. Other Baskets, such as for Picnics or Races, are fully described under those heads. BASMUTTEE.—A very fine kind of Indian Rice. BASS.—There are many species of this fish, all of which belong to the perch tribe, and are considered great culinary delicacies. In France there is one sort known as the “Sea-Wolf” (Loup de mer), which is especially