18 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. AMES CAKE.—See Cakes. AMHURST PUDDING.—See Puddings. AMMONIA (Fr. Ammoniaque; Ger. Ammoniak).—A very volatile salt, prepared commercially from tlie am- moniacal liquor of the gasworks and the manufactories of ivory-black, animal charcoal, &c., in which it exists in a variety of chemical combinations. The Sesqui- carbonate of Ammonia, commonly known as “Volatile Salt,” “ Voil,” or “ Saleratus,” is used in cooking to lighten pastry and cakes, or to stimulate meat teas and jellies for invalids. It requires much discrimination in its use, lest the “hartshorn” flavour predominate to the extent of being unpleasant. It should he purchased in solid lumps, and pounded well in a mortar fresh before using. Being exceedingly volatile, it is advisable to beep it in a closely- stoppered, wide-mouthed bottle. AMNASTICH.—This is a Jewish dish, and is, like most of the Hebrew culinary preparations, exceedingly pure and tasty. Wash thoroughly lib. of rice by passing a stream of water through it in a colander, and stirring briskly until the water runs away quite clear. Put this into a lined stewpan, with lqt. of white stock, and bring slowly to the boil over a moderate fire. When the rice has begun to soften, add a large onion stuck with twelve cloves, and a bundle of selected sweet herbs. Into this mixture put a fine young chicken, stuffed with forcemeat, to simmer, and stew until thoroughly done. Then place the fowl on a dish, strain off the rice, picking out the herbs, onions, and any loose cloves. Beat up with the rice the yolks of four eggs, the juice of a lemon, and 1 table-spoonful of strong infusion of saffron (made by steeping ^ teaspoonful of hay saffron in 1 wineglassful of boiling water, allowing it to stand until cold, and then straining off the clear liquor). This infusion must, of course, be prepared early enough to be ready when wanted. Garnish the fowl with the rice, and season according to taste. Serve hot. AMONTILLADO.—A pale, dry Spanish wine of the sherry order, which does well for all culinary purposes in which that class of wine is used. AMOURETTES (Fr. for, literally, “little loves”).— This term is applied to small garnishes made from the spinal marrow of beef, veal, or mutton. Amourettes are usually prepared thus: Cut up the bones containing the marrow into lengths, take out the marrow from them, and remove any sinewy skin. Tie the marrow up loosely in a cloth, and let it soak for a few hours in salted water. Drain it, and place it in a stewpan, pouring sufficient tepid water over to cover it. Add salt, a small quantity of vinegar, a minced onion, and a sprig or two of parsley to taste. Let the water boil for two or three minutes, and then remove, alio whig the marrow to cool in the liquor. It is then ready to be used in any way required. Timbale of Amourettes (Old Roman Style).-—Take 21b. of the spinal marrow of beef, and prepare as above. Cut the marrow into lengths of 2in. each, and lay them flat on the bottom of a stewpan; season them with pepper and salt, and moisten with a little good Spanish sauce. Cut up lib. of the lean of cooked ham into very small squares; take the same weight of cooked black truffles, cut up like the ham, and sprinkle over the marrow. Take 21b. cf veal or poultry forcemeat, and work up with a little of the Spanish sauce. Butter a dome-shaped mould, and arrange on the bottom and round the sides a few shapely truffles ; then plaster with a spoon (over the truffles) the inside of the mould with a layer of the ready-made forcemeat, spreading it about ^in. thick. Three-quarters-of-an-hour before the timbale is wanted for serving, place the cold marrow-mixture in the hollow of the mould, leaving space to cover over the top with a lin. layer of the forcemeat. Smooth with a knife or spatula to the level of the rim of the mould, and cover with a round of buttered paper. Set the mould on a hollow support placed on the bottom of a stewpan, taking care that the sides of the stewpan are higher than the mould as it stands ; pour boiling water into the stewpan up to half the height of the mould; put Amourettes—continued. it on the stove, and let the water boil. Then immediately cover over the stewpan, and regulate the heat so as to keep up constant simmering without boiling up. In about forty minutes the timbale will be ready to serve. Before turning out of the mould, put a folded cloth on the top, in order to sponge up any superfluous moisture, and then turn the timbale out boldly on to a dish. Surround it with a wre ath of boiled mushroom-heads (see Fig. 23), selected as nearly the same size as possible, pour round the dish a little velouG sauce, and serve more in a sauce-boat with the Timbale, which should bo very hot. AMPHITRYON.—Literally used to denote the host, or a hospitable person. Kettner tells us, in his “ Book of the Table,” that few names are more highly honoured than this; yet none is more ambiguous, nor more curiously linked with shame and ridicule. The true Amphitryon was thoroughly befooled and dishonoured. He was thus injured by the king of gods, who took his name and form, entered his house, and made love to his wife. When the two Amphitryons were brought face to face, and each claimed against the other to be the true one, the false Amphitryon, Jupiter, invited the assembled company to dine, whereupon his friend, Mercury, exclaimed that this settled the question and resolved all doubts; therefore Le veritable Amphitryon Est l’Amphitryon ou l’on dine. The lines are those of Moliere, who converted the plot into an amusing comedy. AMYDON.—A starchy material, used some centuries ago to thicken broths; it was made from fine wheat-flour steeped in water, strained, and left to stand and settle, then drained and dried in the sun. The term is now used to denote the starch-powder employed by Continental confectioners, as d’Amydon. ANACREON.—A famous French cake, very popular in Paris, and christened after the celebrated Greek lyric, who was a lover of cake and wine. M. Corblet gives the receipt thus: Take 11b. of sweet almonds ; blanch, and shred small; then lib. of caster sugar, ten yolks of eggs, four whole eggs, and 1 wineglassful of kirschenwasser; mix all thoroughly together, to insure that the paste shall be light, and then work in 11b. of potato-flour, Jib. of warmed butter, lib. of cherries (chopped), and the whites of ten eggs beaten stiff. When the whole is thoroughly mixed, put it in a Breton mould, and bake in a moderate oven. Ice with kirsch icing. ANALYSIS.—The meaning of this term is, literally, a resolution of anything into its constituent elements. . It is applied to a process by which the chemical composition of foods and other matter is decided. Analysis is of