79 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. tor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jec., referred to. see under their special heads. Barley—continued. Pour the soup through a colander into the tureen. Serve vvitli dice of bread sautes in butter. (4) Moisten ^ pint of well-washed Barley with lqt. of broth, adding- a bouquet of herbs and a whole onion; boil in the saucepan on the stove for three-quarters-of-an-hour, and season with £ table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Strain through a coarse colander, and remove the bouquet; thicken with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream and the yolks of two raw eggs, and servo with sippets of bread fried in butter. Barley Cream Soup.—Well wash 1 teacupful of Barley, put it into a saucepan with an onion, a small piece of stick cinnamon, half a blade of mace, and 3 pints of chicken broth. When this boils, move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer slowly for five hours. Pass the above mixture through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and J pint of boiling milk; or cream may be used instead of milk, and in that case the butter must be omitted. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Beat the yolks of four eggs in 1 tea- cupful of milk; mix this in the soup, and stir it by the side of the fire for a few minutes, but do not let it boil after the eggs are added, or they will curdle. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Barley Brittens.— (1) Boil 1 pint of Barley, drain it, put it into a basin, season with salt and pepper, add two eggs, 4oz. of fine flour, and £ pint of cold milk. Stir the mixture well with a wooden spoon, without beating it, for about five minutes, by which time it will be sufficiently thick and firm. Well buttter a frying-pan, and with a ladle that holds about 1 teacupful put the preparation into the pan, taking care not to let the fritters touch one another. Let them fry to a golden colour on each side, which will take about four minutes, take them out with a skimmer, place thorn on a dish over a folded napkin, and serve. (2) Mix a small piece of butter and a little salt with |lb. of Barley-meal, stir in sufficient boiling water to form a stiff paste, knead it well on a floured board, roll it out, cut it into round cakes with a cutter, cook them on a griddle until done on both sides, and serve either hot or cold. Barley Gruel.—This, when well mado, is an important and valuable item in the dietary of an invalid. There are several formulae given for making it, from which the best have been selected. (1) Wash 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of Pearl Barley in cold water, and then boil it for a few minutes in 1 pint of other water. Pour this water away after the boiling, and put a fresh quart of boiling water to the Barley; let this simmer for three hours, then strain, and add any flavouring that may be desired. Lemon-peel cut very thin and infused for an hour in enough cold water to cover it, gives a fine result. Stir this infusion into the Barley Gruel. A few drops of essence of lemon, almond, or vanilla will answer the same purpose. Equal quantities of milk and Barley Gruel make a very nourishing drink for invalids. This is sometimes described as Barley Water. (2) Wash and soak in cold water loz. of Pearl or “pot” Barley, strain off this washing, and put the Barley into a stew- pan over a slow fire, with 1 pint of beef-tea or strong broth to moisten it, and let it simmer for two hours or more. Then strain, salt to taste, and serve hot. It should be quite thick. (3) A very simple receipt is to boil 1 breakfast-cupful of Pearl Barley in 1 pint of water for a few minutes, and then strain this off. Then add 2qts. of boiling water, and simmer until reduced one-half. Strain, add sugar, essence of lemon, or wine to taste, and warm up before serving. This must not be given hot to invalids. (4) Scald in hot water 2oz. of Pearl Barley, and then strain it through a sieve. Put the scalded Barley into a pan with lqt. of boiling water, and set over tho fire to simmer. Boil and skim till thick and clear, then pour in 1 pint of red wine, 1 table-spoonful of well-washed grocers’ currants, and powdered sugar to taste. Serve in a tureen with lemon to squeeze into it, and a few small dry biscuits, or sippets of toast. Barley—continued. Barley-meal Scones.—These very delicious tea-cakes may be prepared as follows :—Take as much good fresh Barley- meal as you require, season with a little salt, and mix with hot milk until it forms a stiff paste. Boll this out into thick round cakes, and quarter witli a knife into scones. Bake in a quick oven, or on a greased griddle over a bright fire. The addition of 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder to each cake makes them very light. Butter, and serve hot. Barley Milk.—Wash 2 table-spoonfuls of Pearl Barley in several waters, and then put it into a large jar, and stand in a stewpan of water. Stir in 1 pint of milk and i teaspoonful of salt, and boil the water until the milk is reduced to one- half of its original volume. Strain off tho milk, and sweeten or flavour to suit the taste of the patient. Tho Barley itself is nice served on a plate with a wineglassful of sherry poured over, and a sprinkling of castor sugar. Barley Negus (American).—Boil 1 table-spoonful of well- washed Pearl Barley in 1 pint of water, and add i- pint of sherry or marsala, 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a little grated nutmeg. Sweeten with powdered sugar to taste. Barley Puree.—Put the required quantity of Barley into a saucepan, with sufficient chicken broth to cover it, and boil for an hour. Bub the Barley through a fine sieve into a basin, moisten with stock, sprinklo over salt and pepper to taste, warm the puree up, put it on a dish, and serve with pieces of toast or fried bread for garnish. Barley Soup.—(1) When there is choico of meat, this soup should be made with mutton, or a piece of cold mutton may he cut up and put into it, and 2 or 3 pints of good stock added instead of the fresh meat. Wash 1 teacupful of Pearl Barley in two or three waters, straining each time, and boil it in plenty of fresh water for about two hours; then strain away tho liquor from it, rinse once more in cold water, and tho Barley is then ready when required to put in the soup. Cut two slices of turnip and half as much carrot and onion into small dice, all of a size, and boil them in the soup or stock until tender—that would be about three-quarters-of-an-hour. Cut up in small squares about as much meat—all lean—as there was of turnips, and add to the soup; follow that with tho cooked Barley and chopped parsley, seasoning slightly. This is a very cheap soup, and is greatly recommended for its nourishing qualities. (2) Boil in a good broth 1 breakfast-cupful of Pearl Barley, stirring tho broth that the Barley may not settle at the bottom; add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour mixed thin and smooth with a little cold broth, and place the soup over a slow fire, that it may simmer slowly without stopping for five hours; then take off the scum that has formed on the top, and add 1 dessert-spoonful of caster sugar. When serving, put a ladleful of the soup into a puree of the pounded flesh of two fowls, nicely seasoned, and add immediately 2 or 3 more table-spoonfuls of Barley, stirring it into the puree; pour this into tho tureen with the remaining Barley, mixing them perfectly. This is an extravagant dish, but exceedingly nutritious and delightful. (3) A very fine rich soup, in tho compounding of which Pearl Barley takes a prominent part, can be prepared according to the following receipt, which is of Continental origin: Cut up into small, thin pieces two carrots, two turnips, two onions, two leeks, and one small head of celery, and toss them for half-an-hour in a saute-pan with plenty of butter. Add two heads of lettuce finely shredded, a sprig or two each of parsley, chervil, and niai'joram, putting these into 2qts. of hot water with | teaspoonful of pepper, 1 teaspoonful of salt, a few cloves, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Let this simmer for two hours, then strain the soup through a fine strainer. Boil 1 pint of washed Pearl Barley in lqt. of this stock till tho Barley is soft enough to be reduced to a pulp; then rub it through a hair sieve, and add as much more of the liquor as will bo required to make the soup as thick as good cream. Put it on tho fire, and when it boils take it off, and stir into it the yolk of one egg beaten up with 1 gill of cream. Add 1 dessert- spoonful of butter, pour the soup into the tureen, and serve with small dice of bread fried in butter.