THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 81 bor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Barley Sugar—continued. mix in the yolks of eight eggs, and when the eggs are well mixed, put the stewpan containing the mixture over the fire to thicken. When it begins to thicken, stir it well, and throw in Joz. of isinglass previously dissolved in a wine- glassful of warm water, then pour the preparation into a mould, and when cool, ice it. You must let it cool first, or it will melt the ice, and the mould will be liable to tilt over, and the cream fall out. When you do not intend to put isinglass into the cream, you must add the yolks of twelve eggs instead of eight. Butter a mould, pour the cream into it, and set in a pan of boiling water with fire on the lid, to prevent the condensed steam falling in. Barley-sugar Drops.—Put the required quantity of sugar into a sugar-boiler with a little water, and boil; add a squeeze or so of lemon-juice after boiling to the caramel degree (see Sugar-boiling). Have ready some icing-sugar, spread it out on a table, make some small holes in it, and let it dry. Add a few drops of essence of lemon to the boiled sugar, pour it into these holes, and let it cool. Take out the drops when quite cold, put them in boxes, and keep in a dry place until wanted, or the mass when cooled on a slab may be cut up into strips, and then into squares with a pair of scissors, and the corners shaped in by the fingers. Vanilla-flavoured Barley Sugar.—Put lib. of broken loaf sugar into a sugar-boiler, with 1 breakfast-cupful of water and 1 tea-spoonful of acetic acid. Put the boiler on the fire, and boil to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), and stir in a few drops of vanilla extract to flavour. Cool the bottom of the boiler by dipping it into cold water, and when the sugar has cooled a little, turn it out on to a marble slab which has been slightly rubbed over with oil of almonds. As the sugar spreads, turn it back again with the spatula until it is cool ; then cut it into strips about Jin. in diameter, roll and twist into shape like a cork- screw, put them on a slightly-oiled baking-sheet, and let them remain until they are quite stiff and cold. Put the sticks into bottles or jars, cork or stopper them down, and keep them in a dry place until wanted. BARLEY WINE.—The early name for English beer, and now employed by a large firm of brewers to denote a high-class liquor brewed from malt, possibly without hops. BARM.—See Yeast. BAROLO.—The name of a fine Piedmontese wine. See Italian Wines. BARON OP BEEP.—The name given to two sir- loins joined together at the backbone, corresponding in some respects to a saddle of mutton. This may be considered a title of greater honour than “Sir’’-loin, it being due to its greater size that this cut of beef is entitled to the higher honour. BARQUETTE .—Fr. for a piece of pastry formed into the shape of a ship. BARREL.—This may be considered the standard of beer-measure from which other beer-vessels take their capacity as multiples or dividends. Thus, taking the Barrel of 36galls. as 1, a hogshead is It, a puncheon 2, a butt 3, and a tun 6. In the descending scale, a kilderkin is i, and a firkin These exact capacities are not, however, strictly adhered to throughout the. British Islesand they differ greatly in most parts of Europe, especially when employed for holding wines and spirits. BARS AC.—A kind of sauterne manufactured in the locality of Bordeaux. See Wines. BARSZCZ.—Tliis is the name given to a soup much appreciated in Poland. The principal featm'e of its manufacture is the introduction of the red juice of the beetroot. Some cooks term it indifferently Barsch, Barszcz—continued. Borsch, &c. But the name given is that by which it is generally known in the country from which it takes its origin. (1) Cut off 41b. of the rump of beef, and put it into a stockpot with lgall. of sour beetroot-juice, made as follows : Scrape three or four beetroots clean, put them in an earthenware basin, moisten with a little warm water with a little vinegar in it, and add 11b. of breadcrumbs and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Put the basin in a warm place with a cover over it; let it stand for a day, and strain the juice through a sieve. Put the pot with the beef on the fire, add a little salt, boil up, skim well, and place it on the side of the fire. Singe and blanch a salted pig’s ear, put it in the pot, add two leeks, place the pot on the fire again, and cook until the meat is done. Shred a little beetroot, celery, one leek, and a few mushrooms ; put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them for a few minutes. Pour in 2qts. or 3qts. of the prepared broth well strained, boil it up, and add four or five smoked sausages. Let this boil for twenty minutes, add a few table-spoonfuls of raw beetroot-juice that has been well strained and is of a deep red colour, then the pig’s ear cut in small pieces, and a little of the beef, also cut up rather small. Take out the sausages, cut them up in slices, put them into a tureen, pour in the soup, add a little finely - minced parsley, and garnish with croutons of fried bread hollowed out in the centre and filled with beef-marrow. (2) Select a piece of very fat brisket of beef, about 31b., and put it into a saucepan with sufficient hot water to cover it; put in with it also about lib. of fat smoked bacon. Stew gently until nearly done. Chop up finely some slices of raw beetroot, three large onions, four leeks, a quarter of a large white cabbage-head, and a stick of celery, and fry all these in butter, adding a small quantity of salt and pepper. Pour over the vegetables 2qts. of the broth in which the meat was boiled, and let it boil up. Cut up the beef and bacon in small squares, and stir in. Then add 1 teacupful of beetroot-juice, acidified by adding 2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar, 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, and 21b. or 31b. of rasped raw beetroot, and a large pinch of finely-chopped fennel. Servo in a tureen. (3) The following receipt is that which is more frequently adopted : Select 31b. of fat beef, and having previously scalded it, and washed it thoroughly, cut it up in small pieces, and put it into a saucepan with sufficient thin stock to cover it. Add some finely-chopped vegetables, two or three onions, two or three leeks, and a cabbage cut in quarters and halved again. Boil steadily until the cabbage is quito done, and then pour in 1 teacupful of acidulated beetroot-juice. Sometimes the Russians add rye-beer (kwass), or vinegar and salt. This has now to be boiled thoroughly until all the vegetables and meat are quite done. Then add about lib. of boiled ham cut in small squares ; boil up again, and skim off the fat. Take out the cabbage, and put it into another saucepan with about lib. of sliced cooked beetroot, and more juice of a raw beetroot, pepper, salt, and sufficient stock to cover it. Boil up again, and then add altogether, and servo with chopped fennel. A few bay-leaves boiled in tho stock with the meat improve the flavour greatly. BARTAVELLES.—The French name for their red- legged partridges. As these are almost unknown in this country, it will only be necessary to observe that they are subject to the same culinary processes as an ordinary partridge. BASIL, SWEET (Ocimum Basilicum) (Fr. Basilic; Ital. Bassilico).—A very favourite herb, used largely on the Continent for seasoning meats, and chiefly in this country as one of the flavourings of turtle. The leaves when pinched emit a very pungent odour, not unlike that of cloves, and are sometimes added to French salad. The plant is a native of the East Indies, and very scarce in this country, for which reason it is generally used dried. i Basil Vinegar.—Put some freshly - gathered Basil-leaves into a wide-mouthed bottle, cover them with warm vinegar, M & N