THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 50 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Artichokes—continued. spoonful of white wine, having first removed the string and bacon. Italian sauce should be served in a boat. Fried Artichoke Bottoms.—Take a sufficient quantity of the preserved or fresh bottoms, partly boil them, and then, after draining, dip them in batter, or first flour them, then dip in egg-yolk and breadcrumb them. Fry in a pan of boiling fat or oil. Sprinkle each lightly with a little fine salt, and then pile up on a napkin or dish-paper. Preserved Artichokes.—(1) Plunge some Artichokes into a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, and let them remain until the leaves will easily fall out. Take them out, drain, remove the leaves, and scoop out the chokes. Trim them, put on to a strainer to dry, and then into the hot closet to get firm. When wanted for use, they must bo warmed up in gravy. (2) Trim the required number of Artichokes in the same way as for cooking them. Put them into a saucepan and boil quickly for a few minutes, take them out, scoop out the choke, and put them on a strainer to drain. Put them into jars or bottles, pour over sufficient strong salt pickle to cover them, and let remain for a few days. Then pour off the pickle, boil and strain it, pour it over the Artichokes again, and in a couple or three days pour in oil or warmed butter, to about 2in. in height. Cover the jars over, first with paper, then with parchment, and let them remain about three months. Pour off the pickle again, and repeat the operation with fresh pickle and oil or warmed butter. They are then ready for use. Artichoke bottoms can be preserved in the same way, after being parboiled, but without cooking them too soft; the choke scooped out; and well rubbed with lemon. Puree of Artichokes.—Prepare and cook some Artichoke bottoms as for garnish, and when they are quite soft, take them out, drain, and cut up. Put them into a saucepan with an equal bulk of bechamel sauce, glaze them and reduce the liquor, rub the whole through a fine sieve into a basin, mix in a little hot cream and butter, and serve. Stuffed Artichoke Bottoms.—Prepare, cut in quarters, and cook some Artichokes as for Artichokes in the Italian style, and fill the centre of each quarter with a little chicken forcemeat, mixed with d’uxelles sauce. Put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and place in the oven to poach the forcemeat. Take them out, arrange on a dish, and serve with a little half-glaze poured over them. There are various other methods of dressing and cooking these delicate vegetables ; but hitherto they have not made sufficient progress in popular favour in this country to demand further attention. Fig. 49. Jerusalem Artichokes. Jerusalem Artichokes (see Fig. 49) are very trouble- some to prepare for cooking, on account of the awkward bulbous excrescences that crop out of the tubers in all directions; but as these may be removed by a clean sweep of the knife, giving each large tuber the shape of a pear, or by the exercise of a little patience if economy is to be observed, there is no other reason why these tasty vege- tables should be so constantly disregarded by culinary artists. Soyer writes very highly of them, and in one of his numerous works observes: “The Jerusalem Artichoke is one of the best and most useful vegetables ever intro- duced to table, and anything but appreciated as it deserves Artichokes—continued. to be. To prove to you that I am a great admirer of it, you will find it very often mentioned in my receipts. In using them for the second course, I choose about twelve of the same size, peel them, and shape them like pears, but flat at the bottom, wash them well, boil gently in 3 pints of water, loz. of salt, loz. of butter, and a few sliced onions. When tender, I make a border of mashed potatoes on a dish, fix them on it point upwards, sauce them over with either cream sauce, white sauce, melted butter, or maitre - d’hotel butter, and place a fine Brussels sprout between them, which contrast is exceedingly inviting, simple, and pretty.” The nutritive value of Jerusalem Artichokes is small, not much greater than that of turnips, although they contain a large proportion of sugar; not being of a starchy nature, they do not swell, become floury, and burst in cooking, as do potatoes; nor are they subject to injury from frost, for which reason they are easily kept during a hard winter. As fast as the Artichokes are peeled they should be thrown into a basin of cold water, to prevent them from soiling or turning black by exposure to the air—a peculiarity that is analogous to the cut surfaces of apples turning brown. Baked Jerusalem Artichokes.—Peel and trim a dozen or so Jerusalem Artichokes, and put them in a baking-dish with 2oz. of butter, melted and seasoned with salt and pepper. Put the dish in the oven, baste them frequently, and bake for half- an-hour, by which time they should be done and of a rich brown. Take out the dish, and serve. Jerusalem Artichoke Chips.—Peel the required number of Jerusalem Artichokes, cut them up into thin strips, put into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a light golden colour. Take them out, put on a plate or piece of paper, dry in front of the fire, place on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Jerusalem Artichokes au Gratin.—Peel some Jerusalem Artichokes, put them into a saucepan with sufficient milk and water, in equal proportions, to cover them, and boil until quite tender. Take them out, rub through a fine sieve into a basin, and mix with a small quantity of cream. Put this into a shallow dish, grate over a little Parmesan cheese, brown the surface with a salamander or before the fire, and serve. Jerusalem Artichokes Cooked in Italian Style.—This very dainty dish is highly recommended for a small dinner- party. Prepare 31b. of Jerusalem Artichokes in the usual manner, keeping them white, and shaping smoothly. Spread 2oz. or 3oz. of salt butter in a stewpan, and arrange the Artichokes evenly upon it; sprinkle over pepper, salt, nutmeg, and 2 large table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice. Pour over 1 large breakfast- cupful of good broth, and simmer with the lid on for half-an-hour. When they have assumed a good yellow colour, and are soft enough to yield to the pressure of the spoon, they are ready to serve. Pour over each one a little of the sauce in which they have been cooking. Jerusalem Artichoke and Onion Salad.—Cut into slices a few cold cooked onions and Jerusalem Artichokes, arrange alternately on a dish, and pour over a little salad-dressing. Put round a garnish of pickled cauliflower, beetroot, and cold boiled carrots cut into forms to represent olives, and serve. Jerusalem Artichoke Sauce.—Pare a dozen large Jerusalem Artichokes, wash them well, and put in a saucepan with lqt. of water, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and loz. of butter. Put the saucepan on the fire, and as the liquor commences to boil, add a piece of ham weighing about loz., an onion cut in slices, 2oz. more of butter, a seasoning of bay-leaf, a stick of celery, and a small quantity of mace, and pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk. Boil again until it is of the con- sistence of melted butter, strain it into another saucepan, heat it up, pour into a sauceboat or tureen, and serve. The sauce will require about one hour’s boiling in all. Jerusalem Artichoke Soup.— (1) Put four slices of lean ham into a saucepan, and add one turnip, one onion, half a head of celery, all finely chopped, and 3oz. of butter. Set the saucepan on the fire, and boil quickly for a little longer than a quarter-of-an-hour, stirring constantly until the saucepan is slightly glazed with the mixture. Pour 2 breakfast-