134 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Beverages—continued. drink. ‘ Nothing to drink ? ’ replied the angel. ‘ Look around. Do not the rains fall, and the rivers run, and is there not a spring of water bubbling up at the cottage door P ’ ‘ It is true,’ replied Noah, smiting his breast, ‘that there is abimdance of water in which thy servant can bathe; hut, alas! when I think of the multitudes of strong men, of beautiful women, and of innocent children, and of the countless hosts of animals, that were drowned in the Flood, the idea of water becomes distasteful, and my lips refuse to drink.’ ‘ There is reason in what thou sayest,’ replied the angel, and spreading his wings, he flew up to heaven swift as the lightning-flash; and while the eyes of Noah were still dazzled with the brightness of his presence, returned with stock of the vine, which he taught the grateful patriarch how to plant and tend, and when the fruit was ripe, to press it into wine.” “ This,” says the German story-teller, “ was the source of all the beneficial and benevolent drinks which the world owes to the grape.” But teetotalers will scarcely be disposed to admit such a Divine source, or accept the additional supplement that Noah planted the stocks, and that they grew, bore grapes, which he gathered, pressed, fermented the juice, and matured as wine within an hour or so of the angel’s first visit. Taking the fact into consideration that wine exists, no matter what may have been its origin, we are entitled to hear the words of such an authority as Professor Liebig on the subject of its consumption. He says: “ As a restorative, a means of refreshment, where the powers of life are exhausted; of giving animation and energy where man has to struggle with days of sorrow; as a means of correction and compensation when mispro- portion occurs in nutrition, and the organism is de- ranged in its operations; and as a means of protection against organic disturbances, wine is surpassed by no product of nature or of art.” We quote this as an excuse for not entering into any discussion on the merits or demerits of wine-drinking, and conclude this part of the subject by quoting the words of a sapient writer, who says, “ Sensible Englishmen already see, as all Englishmen will hereafter understand, that true temperance consists not in refraining from the use of wine, but in drinking it moderately; and that not the lightly alcoholised wines must he regarded as the true foe, but the amylic and other alcohols which are not obtained from wines, and which are only used either neat or apart from wine.” Other information concerning the composition and varieties of wines will he found under appropriate headings. Spirits contain the largest proportion of alcohol, and are therefore much more intoxicating in their effects than any other Beverage to which we have alluded. The various kinds sold in this country are all more or less subject to adulteration; but as they can scarcely be considered Beverages, or “thirst quenchers,” in the pre- cise acceptation of the term, their further consideration as applied to culinary purposes will be found under their respective heads. Mineral and saccliarinated aerated waters have made rapid strides as popular Beverages in this and all other countries, whether as a separate Beverage or a vehicle for, or in combination with, others, such as brandy or claret in soda and seltzer, sherry and lemonade, gin and ginger- beer, and others too numerous to mention. The carbonic acid contained in them gives a piquancy to their flavour which can only be approached by bottled beers and sparkling wines. Of their various uses and adaptations to culinary purposes mention is made under the headings in which they occur. Cordials and liqueurs are not entitled to be classed as Beverages, but take rank rather amongst spirits ; they are, however, much used in confectionery, and other forms of cooking, so receive considerable attention under that combined heading. Beverages —continued. It would be impossible to enumerate and treat in- dividually in this work of the multitude of Beverages that are consumed in this country, for indeed there seems to be no end to them; and it may well be said, in the words of Haywood in his “Rape of Lucrece,” slightly altered, perhaps, to meet the times: The Russ drinks quass; Dutch, Lubeck beer, And that is strong and mighty; The Briton, he metheglin quaffs, The Irish, aqua-vita ; The French affect the Orleans grape, The Spaniard tastes his sherry; The English none of these can ’scape, But he with all makes merry. Drink for an Invalid.—(1) Mix 1 wineglassful of brandy ■with f teacupful of water, then break in three eggs, and beat all well together. Strain the mixture through a silk sieve, and give the patient about 1 teaspoonful at a time of it. (2) Put | pint of milk into a very clean saucepan, and when it is on the point of boiling, stir in quickly 2 wine- glassfuls of madeira or sherry. Strain the mixture through a silk sieve to rid it of the curds, then give it to the patient. German Beverage.—Pour lqt. of orgeat or milk of almonds into a basin, and mix in 1 teacupful of rum and kirschen- wasser in equal proportions and lqt. of seltzer water. Ice the Beverage in the freezer, turn it into glasses, and serve. Imperial Drink.—Pour some boiling water in a jug, then turn it out and put in it between foz. and Joz. of cream of tartar; pour in lqt. of boiling water, flavour it with lemon, using either peel or essence for the purpose, and sweeten it to taste. Indian Pinaree.—To prepare this drink, grate the required number of bitter cassava, squeeze out the juice, and rub the pulp through a sieve : there should remain about 4 break- fast-cupfuls of the coarser pulp in the sieve; put it into a jar, add sufficient fresh-boiled cassava to moisten, and add the other ingredients, together with two grated sweet potatoes. Cover over the jar with a leaf, let it remain for about three days, when it will be ready for use. A small quantity of it at a time should be used with water. By being allowed to stand for several days it becomes very intoxicating. Nightcap.—Warm a pint pitcher or tumbler, and put into it a little more than 1 wineglassful of either Scotch or Irish whisky, loz. of powdered loaf sugar, a small piece of lemon- peel, and £ teaspoonful of red-currant jelly. Pour over J pint of boiling water, stir well, and it is ready. Persian Beverage.—Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls each of pome- granate- and strawberry-juice into a basin, add 1 pint of syrup at 32deg., % teacupful of orange-flower water, and lqt. of filtered or spring water. Mix well, pour the liquor into the freezer, freeze until it will only just run when poured out, put it into glasses, and serve. Spanish Beverage.—(1) Mix the juice of six lemons, and the thin rind of two, with 3 teacupfuls of syrup at 32deg., pour in a pint of claret, grate over half a nutmeg, and add a little water if required. Pour the preparation through a fine sieve into a freezer, work well, easing the ice from the sides with a spatula; and when it be- comes like snow, and only just sufficiently liquid to run, pour it into glasses, and serve. (2) Blanch and pound 6oz. of Jordan almonds, put them into a basin, and mix in fib. of crystallised moist sugar, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of grape-juice, and 6 breakfast-cupfuls of clear spring-water. Stir well, pass the liquor through a filter into a basin packed in ice, and when it is quite cold it is ready for use. Summer Drinks.—(1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of syrup into a saucepan over a slow fire, add loz. of black-currant jelly, and stir until the latter is dissolved; let it get cold, add a tumblerful of rum, and it is ready for use. (2) Put 1J pints of ale into a large glass, pour in a bottle of effervescing ginger beer, mix well, and drink at once. (3) Pour Igall. of old cider into a bowl, sweeten to taste, taking care that the sugar dissolves, add half a grated nutmeg, 1 wineglassful each of noyeau and brandy, a little