TIIE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 106 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. (10) Put into a jar 21b. of gravy Beef that has been cut into pieces, adding 1 pinch of salt and 2J- pints of water. Put a plate on the top of the jar, and stand it in a warm oven for three hours. When cooked, strain the tea through a silk sieve, and keep it in a cold place till required. (11) Any juicy lean piece of Beef will do, the shin or roll of the shoulder being often selected. Trim lib. of it clear of all fat, chop it into small pieces, put it into a stewpan with 1 pint of cold water, allow it to simmer slowly for one hour or more, strain through a gravy-strainer, and serve. (12) Put the meat into a pint jar with a closely-fitting lid, and fill with cold water. Place the jar in a slow oven for a couple of hours or more, remove, strain, and serve. Or the jar may be stood in a saucepan of water, and boiled for two hours at the very least, four or five hours being better. Care must be taken that the water in the saucepan shall not boil into the jar, and that hot water shall be added occasionally to that in the saucepan, lest it boil dry or get low. (13) The addition of two or three peppercorns and a minced shallot (shallots are milder than onions) are approved by some. (14) The celebrated Dr. Pavy was of opinion that Beef-tea should he prepared as follows : lib. of lean Beef is cut up as fine as possible, and steeped in cold water. When this infusion has stood for one hour it is to be kept for another hour in a closed vessel at a moderately high temperature, best of all in a gently boiling water-bath. Lastly, the infusion is poured into a coarse sieve, through which the Beef-tea runs. It contains a quantity of a fine precipitate, which is to he drunk with the liquid. Such Beef- tea has an agreeable and very pronounced flavour of meat; salt may be added at pleasure. Dr. Pavy considers it an error, though often practised, to boil the infusion for a long time over an open fire, since in this way a highly gelatinous broth is obtained, but not a true Beef-tea, for the preparation of which a temperature of 76deg. Cent, is sufficient. Beef-tea of a highly concentrated character can be prepared as follows : (15) Lean Beef is cut up into small pieces, which are placed in a glass jar or wide-necked bottle without the addition of water. The receptacle is then closed, and kept for several hours standing in boiling water. The meat juice that runs out gives a small quantity of highly concentrated Beef-tea. An excellent nutritious meat drink can be made from Barley-water (see Barley) with an extract of meat, sircb as Liebig’s, stirred in. Ready-made Beef-teas, such as Bovril, Dickson’s Beef-tea, Brand’s Bouillon, Bouillon Fleet, and others, although inferior in nourishing qualities to fresh-made Beef-tea, are very palatable, and have the great advantage of being ready for immediate use. By enlarging the proportion of the extract when mixing with water beyond the quantity recommended in the instructions the nutriment may be increased at the expense of the delicate flavour. Beef A la Vinaigrette.—From a round of boiled fresh Beef cut a slice about 3in. iu thickness ; put this into a saucepan, pour over 1 wineglassful of white wine and a little less than 1 breakfast-cupful of water, adding a bay-leaf, a small bunch of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the saucepan on the fire, and cook until the liquor is about half absorbed, turning the meat occasionally, Place it on a dish when cold, and servo with a sauceboatful of the liquor strained and 1 teaspoonful of vinegar mixed in with it. Boiled Beef.—(1) Choose a piece of the round (Fig. 102, 5), silverside (Fig. 102, 4), aitchbone (Fig. 102, 3), or brisket (Fig. 102, 13). Skewer it if necessary, and tie it up with string. Put it into a saucepan, cover it with cold water, and let it come gradually to the boil, removing the scum as it rises, and throwing in a small quantity of cold water from time to time. When well skimmed, add two or more quartered carrots, an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt to taste. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let the Beef boil slowly for two to two-and-a-half hours. Keep the liquor, after strain- ing, for soup stock. Garnish with vegetables (Fig. 117), and serve. Beef—continued. (2) Salted Beef should be put into cold water, and fresh Beef into boiling water. Allow twenty minutes to each pound, and half-an-hour over for salted meat; rather less for fresh. Carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and sometimes suet puddings are boiled and served with the Beef. A little of the liquor may be poured round to take off the dryness of the meat, and the rest makes excellent stock for soup. Fig. 117. Boiled Beef, Garnished with Vegetables. Boiled Brisket of Beef.—Get a nice brisket of Beef (Fig. 102, 13) with as little fat as possible. If there is too much fat attached, trim a little of it off, and cut out the bones. Then mako a pickle with 201b. of common salt, fib. of saltpetre, four cakes of sal prunella, 21b. of moist sugar, and two cloves of garlic, with which rub the meat well, and leave it smothered in the pickle for rather more than a week, rubbing and turning it over every day. When the pickling is over, wash, drain, and wipe the brisket, cut it into two equal parts, and place one upon the other in such a way that the fat and lean mix well; tie them together, and wrap in a clean cloth. Put this into a large stewpan or stock-pot containing at least 6gall. of water, and let it simmer for eight hours. When the meat is tender, which you can ascertain by probing with a long skewer, take it out, and set it upon a dish to drain. Have ready a large earthenware crock, and put the Beef into it, opening the cloth so that it lies smoothly, and then with a fork you can arrange the meat as you wish it to cool, fat and lean alternately. Get a piece of board about |in. thick and large enough to cover the meat in the pan, and place it upon the meat with a heavy weight upon it. Let it be put in a cold place until the next morning, then take off the weight and board, and lift out the meat by the cloth, and turn it over upon a large dish. Remove the cloth, and garnish with parsley, water- cress, and small radishes (if in season). Cut into thin strips crosswise. This was Soyer’s favourite mode of preparing this dish. Boiled Brisket of Beef with Peas Pudding.—Take a piece of brisket of Beef (Fig. 102, 13) weighing about 81b. or 101b. (Fig. 118); bone, and pickle with salt, mixed up with salt- petre, thyme, bay-leaves, and coriander-seed, and a handful