TILE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 129 For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Beef—continued. Stewed Slices of Cold Beef with Green Peas.—Put 6qts. of young green peas into a lined saucepan with the head of a cabbage-lettuce cut in slices, pour over a little more than 1 breakfast-cupful of weak broth or stock, put the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for an-hour-and- a-quarter. Have ready some slices of cold roasted Beef well- seasoned with salt and pepper, put them into the saucepan with the peas, add a small onion cut in slices and browned in butter, and simmer gently for an-hour-and-a-half longer. Add a lump of butter kneaded with flour, 2 table-spoonfuls of Worcester sauce, and 1 teaspoonful of mustard; stir well, boil up quickly, turn the whole out on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Tough Beef-steaks Cooked Tender in Gravy.—Cut lilb. of tough Beef-steak into slices, put these into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and add a few pieces of salted pork, and salt and pepper to taste. Put 2oz. of butter into a frying-pan, warm it, place the slices of steak in it, brown them well, sprinkle over 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir well until it is mixed, and pour in the liquor the meat was cooked in, after it had been reduced to half its original quantity and well strained. Cook for ten minutes longer, put the meat on a dish, pour over the liquor, and serve very hot. Tough Beef Made Tender. — For each 201b. of Beef use a mixture of Ingalls, of water to 3 breakfast-cupfuls of vinegar. Let the meat, if weighing 201b., remain in this for twelve hours, and less time if smaller, according to the size. The meat must be well drained before being cooked. Tournedos of Beef.—Cut off the required number of slices, about iin. thick, from a cooked fillet of Beef, put them into a saucepan with sufficient gravy to cover them, and warm them on the side of the fire without boiling. Cut off some slices of bread the same size and thickness as the meat, put them into a frying-pan with some fat skimmed off stock, and fry them. Arrange the slices of meat and bread alternately round a dish, fill the centre with cooked French beans or olives, and serve with a sauceboatful of piquant sauce. Vol-au-Vent of Beef Tendons.—Put 21b. of Beef tendons into a basin after the skin and nerves have been removed, pour over sufficient warm water to cover them, and let them soak until they are quite white. Put them into a saucepan of salted water and a little vinegar, and boil for ten minutes. Take them out when firm, drain them, and cut them up into 2in. lengths ; put them again into a basin, pour over more warm water, and soak them for ten minutes longer. In the meantime, line a vol-au-vent case with puff paste, and bake it in the oven; take it out when done, and turn it out when cold. Place it in the oven for a few minutes to warm, put in the pieces of tendon, pour over sufficient bechamel sauce to cover them, and put a couple of dozen of boiled button mushrooms on this. Put the vol-au-vent in the oven, and serve as hot as possible. BEEBi (Fr. Biere; Gar. Bier; Ital. Birra; Sp. Cer- veza).—At what period of the world’s history, or by what people the brewing of Beer from malted barley was originated, we have not sufficient reliable record to show. Herodotus tells us that the ancient Egyptians excelled in the art of brewing a fermented liquor from barley, and Tacitus, who wrote in the first century, describes it as of common use in Germany. Pliny, who wrote his “ Natural History ” about the same time, states that “ All the nations of the West of Europe have a liquor with which they intoxicate themselves, made of corn and water. The manner of making this liquor is some- what different in Gaul (that is France), Spain, and other countries, and it is called by various names; but its nature and properties are everywhere the same. The people of Spain, in particular, brew this liquor so well that it will keep for a considerable time. So exquisite is the ingenuity of mankind in gratifying their vicious palates that they have invented a method to make water itself intoxicate.” Xenophon alludes to malt liquor as early as 401 b.c., and other writers before him write of “ Barley wine.” The Saxons and Danes, who prob- ably introduced the beverage into this country, were Beer—continued. extravagantly fond of Beer, and believed that drinking it in long draughts out of monster goblets would be one of the rewards of their paradise in the “ Hall of Odin.” Alehouses were mentioned in A.D. G80, and “ ale-booths ” were regulated by law in a.d. 728; and from that time and before, Beer was the recognised national beverage of the British Isles, as well as of many other countries. But this much-loved liquor of our ancestors was then little better than sweet wort, the aromatic hop being unknown to the English brewer until the sixteenth century. There are several different sorts of Beer now brewed in this country, such as strong ale, table ale, pale ale, and brown ale, or stout. The pale ales are made from malt which has only been slightly dried over a kiln after malting, whereas brown ale is made with malt which has been roasted. The malt liquors in use before 1730 were called ale, Beer, and “ twopenny,” and it was customary, so Leigh tells us, to call for a pint or tankard of “ half- and-half,” which is half ale and half Beer. Then it became customary to ask for a pint of “ three-thirds,” meaning a third each of ale, beer, and twopenny. To save trouble, Harwood, a celebrated brewer, produced a liquor which partook of the united flavours of the three favourites, and this he dubbed “ entire.” From this circumstance it has become customary to speak of a Beer- house as an “ entire,” which is on a par with the name of “porter” given to this entire drink, because it found so much favour amongst porters and persons of that class, and “ stout ” to a stronger, and therefore more fattening, Beer, for reasons that are obvious. Ail chemists agree that in Beer there is a considerable amount of nutritive matter, such as sugar, dextrine, and albuminates, which must be taken into account when we consider its action in use as a beverage, although it is not altogether for that reason that it is such a universal favourite. Beer owes its value mainly to its pleasing taste, the presence of carbonic acid, and to the alcohol it contains, which, although very small in proportion to other liquors (see Alcohol), is sufficient to produce certain effects, which, if continued to excess, provoke intoxication. Besides the above-named constituents, Beer contains also bitter (tonic) and resinous extractives of hops, as well as glycerine, small quantities of acids, and ash. “ The oil of hops,” says Ziemssen, “ is the cause of the peculiar heaviness and drowsiness that often follows excessive indulgence in Beer.” Beer brewed from a variety of fermentable matters is prepared in different countries, rice often being used in hot climates. In Great Britain, America, Australia and other English-speaking countries, the term Beer is given to many concoctions, all of which would appear to be in more or less favour, as Beetroot Beer, Birch Beer, Corn Beer, Ginger Beer, Herb Beer, Nettle Beer, Persimmon Beer, Potato Beer, Spruce Beer, Treacle Beer, and others. In making Beer, malt—that is, barley which has begun to germinate and then been dried—is steeped in warm water; a liquid is thus obtained, which is a solution of sugar, dextrine, albuminates, diastase, and salt. This “ wort,” as it is called, is then boiled after hops have been added, cooled, and turned into vats for fermentation with yeast. Before the fermentation is completed the Beer is transferred to large vats, to stand for a time, during which a feeble fermentation goes on. According to the quantity of sugar in the wort will be the proportion of alcohol (see Alcohol, Fermentation, Malt, Sugar, Yinegar, &c.), the strongest ale being that of British production, and varying between 3 and 8 per cent. Sometimes other starchy materials are used instead of barley, such as wheat or rice; the so-called White Beer, of Prussian notoriety, being made of wheat. Other sub- stitutes are sometimes found in grape-sugar, made from potato-starch or Indian corn; glucose, made from wheat; maltine, made from corn; cane syrup, corn-starch, potato- s