TIIE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 102 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. into shape. Spread thin layers of bacon in a large stewpan, and set the meat upon them ; add two blanched calf’s feet, freed of the bones by boiling; baste the meat with its marinade, and pour in broth to the height of the meat-; cover it with layers of bacon, add a hunch of aromatics and a clove of garlic, and put on the stove to boil, removing back to simmer. Put live embers on the lid, and occasionally turn Fig. 111. Rump op Reef in Parisian Stile. the meat. When this is three-parts done, pass all the stock through a sieve, put it again into the stewpan, adding two carrots, two turnips, and six small onions, sliced and slightly blanched; continue to boil gently, and when ready to serve, drain the meat, dish it up, take off the strings, and surround it with vegetables (Pig. 111). Skim the fat off the cooking stock (which then should be half glaze), pass it through a sieve, and pour it over the Beef. Beef Patties.—Boll out thin about Jib. of puff paste, cut it into shapes the same as for puffs, and fill each one with a little mince made of partly-cooked Beef, highly seasoned with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of finely-chopped shallot or onion. Fold the paste over, fastening the edges, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them for about ten minutes or to a good brown colour. Take them out when done, drain off all the fat, put them in a heap on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried sprigs of parsley. Beef Pilau.—For this dish take 21b. of Beef and cut it up into slices. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of rice into a saucepan, cover it with gravy well seasoned with onions, ginger, salt, and spices, and boil until the rice is quite soft. Put the Beef into a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover it, and boil until done. Place the piece of meat in the centre of a dish, pour over the rice, and serve with fried onions and bacon, and hard-boiled eggs cut into slices for garnish. Cold cooked meat is frequently used, and the slices may be first browned in a frying-pan. Beef Pie.—Fill a pie-dish with bits of Beef cut into small pieces and rolled in flour. Season with pepper and salt. Pour over the meat 1 teacupful of water, cover with a suet- or good pie-crust, and bake in a quick oven, top shelf at first, and afterwards, when the crust is hard, on the lower one. Turn frequently to prevent burning. Hard eggs, slices of potato, macaroni, kidney, tomatoes, or mushrooms, may be mixed with the meat if fancied. Beef Pie made with Stewed Shin.—Take about 31b. of the thick fleshy part of a shin of Beef (Fig. 102, 15), and stew it slowly for about three hours with six onions, a large turnip, and sliced carrot, in lqt. of water. Add 1 eggcupful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of black pepper. See that the meat cooks quite tender without being ragged. When done, remove it, and cut into thin slices, across the grain; mince it, put it in a basin, and mix up well with the vegetables (mashed) cooked with it. Beduce the gravy by boiling slowly in an open stewpan to about J pint, and pour this over the meat and vegetables. Some minced uncooked ox-kidney and finely- chopped mushrooms add to the quality. Make a good suet paste, roll it out, then put a layer round the edge, and cover the pie, finishing in the usual style. Beef Pot-au-feu.—For this receipt, which may be regarded as one of the best, any cut of Beef will do—about Gib. with Jib. or so of bone. Tie up the meat with string, and put it Beef—continued. with the bone into a very large saucepan; fill up with suffi- cient water to come over the meat and bones above an inch, and then set on the fire to boil. As the scum rises, take it off with a skimmer. Do not allow the water to quite boil. Begulate this by adding at convenient intervals a small quantity of cold water to the extent of 1 pint in all: this will check the bubbling, and help the scum to rise. When the scum is all removed, put in about 1 table-spoonful each of salt, whole pepper, and allspice, one onion stuck with twelve cloves, one onion toasted almost black before the fire, one leek, three carrots of average size cut in lengths, two turnips of average size each cut in four, and a bunch of herbs, such as two bay-leaves, two or three sprigs each of thyme and marjoram, a clove of garlic, and a small handful of parsley, all tied to- gether into a bundle. The vegetables should not be put in all at once, but gradually, so as not to check the gentle simmering of the pot-au-feu, which it is most essential to keep up uninterruptedly. Skim once more, and leave in a conve- nient place on the stove to simmer for at least four hours. According to the season, celery, tomatoes, parsnips, and chervil may be added. Before serving this delicious broth, strain it, and skim off all the fat, which can be best effected when cold. Add 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and more salt to taste; make it very hot, and pour it into the soup-tureen over small slices of toasted bread without crusts. Add the vege- tables or not, as desired, according to taste. Beef Pot-Pie.—Cut into pieces of uniform size 21b. of coarse fat Beef, selecting such parts as are not suitable for steaks; put them into a saucepan with cold water, and stew them for about two hours with the lid on the pan; add a slice of fat pork or bacon, one onion, salt and pepper to taste, and a thickening of flour-and-water; turn the whole into a dish lined with biscuit dough, such as would be used for dumplings, cover over with more of it, and hake in a quick oven until done. Turn out carefully on to a dish, and serve. Beef Cooked in Prussian Style.—A piece of the fillet-steak is best for this, but any other tender part of Beef without bone will do. Take about 61b., and lard it with bacon and raw ham; salt it, and put into a kitchen basin. Pack round the meat parsley and celery-roots, a carrot, and an onion sliced; also a little thyme, basil if available, bay-leaves, cloves, and peppercorns; cover with table ale or German Weissbier (white beer), and leave to soak until wanted, turning the meat frequently. Keep in a cool place. Into a stewpan put some trimmings of bacon and the vegetables out of the above marinade ; set the meat thereon, pour the marinade over, and add more beer to cover the lot; add also a few rinds or strips of pork. Set this on the stove to boil, and skim it carefully. As soon as this begins to bubble, lay a thickly-buttered paper over the meat, replace the lid on the stewpan, and put it into a very slow oven to simmer. In three hours’ time turn the meat, and continue cooking it for three hours more; it should then bo done. Bemove the Beef, and set it on a dish. Strain the stock in which it was boiled through a sieve, skim the fat off carefully, and pour it over the Beef; then cover the stewpan, and keep the meat hot, having first emptied the stock into a second stewpan. Let this boil, and thicken it with 5 or G table-spoonfuls of gingerbread soaked in water and pounded smooth. As soon as the sauce boils, place it on the side to settle, add to it the grating of an orange-peel, the pulp and juice of a lemon without peel or pips, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf. Twenty minutes after, skim off the fat again, and strain into another stewpan; then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and after boiling it for a few minutes, take it off the fire. Place the Beef on a large dish, and pour the sauce over. Garnish the dish with a few thin slices of lemon, and send up separately a small side dish of cucumbers which have been peeled, sliced, and salted. Beef Pudding1.—Grease a basin, and lino it with suet paste Jin. thick: 1 Jib. of flour will make sufficient paste to line a quart basin. Trim the paste off the edge. Cut the Beef (any part will do, if not too fat) into about pieces lin. by ljin. square, roll them in flour, and season with pepper and salt. Fill the basin with the meat, and poui- in a very little water. A few oysters or chopped mush- rooms will greatly improve the flavour. Boll out the