109 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. vegetable scoop five minutes before serving. Place the vege- tables with the skimmed gravy in a pan, and reduce for five minutes. Dress the Beef on a hot dish, and arrange the vegetables in four heaps, one at each end of the dish and one on each side of it. Pour the gravy over the Beef, and serve. Braised Beef & la Russe. — Braise a piece of Beef, and serve it with a little of the gravy on the dish, and £ pint of Russian sauce in a tureen. Braised Brisket of Beef in Flemish Style.—Take out the bone from a brisket of Beef, roll it round, tie, and skewer it. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover it, and simmer gently for about three hours. Take it out, drain it, put it into another saucepan, pour over 1 pint of sherry or other white wine, and about 1 pint of stock, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until it is quite done and tender; then take it out, and keep it hot. Trim off the outside leaves of one or two cabbages, blanch them, put them between a couple of plates with a weight on the top, and let them remain until cold. Dredge the cabbage over with salt and pepper, tie it round with broad tape, put it into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover it, and add a few pork or beef sausages, German sausages, a piece of bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Cover the whole over with a sheet of greased paper, boil until the bacon and sausages are done, take them all out, skin the sausages when they are cold, cut them up in slices and the bacon in small squares, put them into a saucepan with butter, and warm them thoroughly. Place the meat in the centre of a dish, surround it with the cabbage cut in triangular- shaped pieces, arrange the bacon and sausages round that, and serve with a sauceboatful of sauce made with the liquor from the meat, mixed with a little Madeira sauce. Braised Chump of Beef.—Put a layer of carrots, onions, savoury herbs, spices, and seasoning at the bottom of a braising- pan; place a chump of Beef on them, cover it over with more of the seasoning and herbs, pour in 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, and sufficient white wine to moisten. Cover over the pan, hermetically sealing the lid; put it over a slow fire with hot ashes on the top, and cook gently until the meat is done. When done, put the joint on a dish, pass the liquor, vegetables, and herbs through a fine sieve into another sauce- pan, reduce this by quick boiling, pour it over the meat, and serve Braised Larded Fillet of Beef Garnished with Tomatoes.—Put a larded fillet of Beef into a saucepan, pour over 1 wineglassful or so of white wine, 1 table-spoonful of brandy, and some rich stock, and add one onion and carrot cut into thick slices, a bunch of thyme and parsley, a bay- leaf, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the saucepan on the fire, boil quickly, and skim well; then remove the pan to the side and simmer gently until the meat is done. Put the joint on to a dish, skim and strain the liquor, reduce it, garnish with stewed tomatoes (Fig. 122), warm the whole on the side of the fire for ten minutes, without boiling, pour it round the Beef, and serve. Braised Larded Rump of Beef.—Remove the bone from a rump of Beef, beat it well with a rolling-pin, lard it with strips of fat bacon, put it into a saucepan, and add a calf’s foot, a small quantity of bacon-rind, and a seasoning of sweet herbs, bay-leaves, thyme, and garlic, one onion and carrot, a few cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour in about lgall. of water, set the saucepan on a slow fire, with a cloth under the lid, and cook gently for about six hours. Take out Beef—continued. the meat when done, put it on a dish, strain the liquor over, after the fat has been removed, and serve very hot. The lid may be hermetically sealed, and hot ashes put on the top, to give more heat to the meat, but on no account must the steam be allowed to evaporate. Braised Rib of Beef.—Take a chuck-rib of Beef (Fig. 102, 11), weighing about 4^1b., cut very short; cut off the chine-bone neatly, leaving only the rib ; tie up with string, and put it into a stewpan that will just hold it. Add 2 pints of broth, 1 gill of brandy, loz. of salt, two small pinches of pepper, an onion, a clove, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a carrot. Cover the stewpan, and boil slowly for two hours. Ascertain if the meat is done Fig, 123. Braised Rib of Beef, with Vegetable Garnishing. tender by trying it with a trussing-needle; if so, take it out and put it on a dish, and keep it warm whilst preparing the gravy. Strain the stock in which it has been cooked through a strainer, and, after taking off the fat, reduce it one-half over the fire, and pour it over the meat. This joint may be garnished with macaroni, nouilles, or vegetables (Fig. 123). Braised Ribs of Beef with Macaroni.—(1) Take a thick piece of the ribs (Fig. 102, 10) and cut short the bones ; cut off also the backbone, or chine; put the meat in a large stewpan, the bottom of which is masked with vegetables and scraps of bacon, season it, and let it braise in the ordinary way for three or four hours. When the meat is quite done, it should show a nice colour when removed from the pan, and the gravy from it be full of meat-juice. Strain the gravy stock, skim off its fat, and pour into a sauceboat. Let the meat drain, and then dish it up, surrounded with a garnish of macaroni, which has been cooked with Parmesan cheese. Fig. 124. Ribs of Beef Prepared for Boiling. (2) Remove the bones from some ribs of Beef, and roll them round, tying them into shape with broad tape (Fig. 124); put them into a braising-pan with a seasoning of onions, carrots, mixed spices, grated nutmeg, thyme, laurel-leaves, sweet herbs, salt and pepper, at the bottom of the pan and on top of the meat, and pour over sufficient white wine to moisten. Cover over the pan, hermetically sealing the lid with water and flour paste; set it on a clear fire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook until the meat is done, then take it out and keep it hot in the oven or before the fire. Strain the liquor