123 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. tor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. under-done, being then more tender and juicy. The Beef Bhould be wrapped in white paper, which must be disengaged a quarter-of-an-hour before being taken down, and must not be salted till the moment of being taken off the spit. Boasted Beef, when done, must be served on a large dish, without gravy, or garnish; if the meat is meant to be carved at the table, the garnish and the gravy are served separately. The garnishes to be served with roasted Beef consist most commonly of Yorkshire pudding, potatoes, boiled in steam, or else with salted water; beside these, other vegetables are also served, such as Brussels sprouts, cauliflowers, French beans, &c. The third cut of sirloin was Dubois’ selection, as it has a very handsome appearance, whether hot or cold (Fig. 142). (4) American Style.—Lay the meat on some sticks in a dripping-pan or other vessel, so that it will not touch the water which it is necessary to have in the bottom. Season with salt and pepper, and put in the roasting-oven three or four hours before it is wanted for the table. Baste it often with the water in the bottom of the pan, renewing this as often as it gets low. This makes sweet, juicy roasted Beef. The great secret of cooking it is not to have the meat touch the water in the bottom of the pan, and to baste it often. Tough, unpromising- pieces of Beef are best cooked by steaming them an hour-and-a-half or so, and then putting them in the oven and roasting as much longer. Crackers, first browned and then pounded, should always be kept to sift over roasted meats ; and curled parsley to garnish it. Grated horseradish is also excellent with the roast. Boasted Fillet of Beef with. Piquant Sauce. — Trim and lard a fillet of Beef. Place it on a dish, and season it; pour over it a little oil and some lemon-juice, add to it one minced onion, sweet herbs, and sprigs of parsley, and let it macerate for a few hours, turning it. Fifty minutes previous to serving, drain the fillet, pierce it through lengthwise with an iron skewer, which fix to the spit, and roast the fillet at a brisk fire, basting it with the foregoing marinade. The flesh should remain of a rose colour and smell savoury. Season the fillet with a dust of salt, take it off the spit, put it in a dish, and garnish it with fried potatoes. Serve with a piquant sauce mixed with the stock of the dripping-pan, from which all fat has been first removed. Roasted Fillet of Beef with. Plain Sauce.—Take a good fillet of Beef, cut away a part of its fat, remove also the sinewy skin, and then lard the upper surface. Place it in a kitchen basin, season with salt and pepper, pour over some fine oil, add V the juice of two lemons, a large sliced onion, and 1 handful of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, and in this allow it to macerate for twenty-four hours. At the expiration of that time, take it out of the marinade and put it before the fire to roast. Moisten it with a little oil, and pour the marinade into the dripping-pan. Boast the fillet for thirty-five or forty minutes, basting often. When about to serve, dish it up, and pour over a sauce made thus: A few minutes before taking the fillet from the fire, pour into the dripping-pan about £ pint of hot Beef-broth, and let it boil; strain it through a sieve into a stewpan, and skim off the fat. Chop up one onion and a shallot; fry them in a little oil or butter, without allowing thorn to take colour; sprinkle over them 1 table-spoonful of flour, and fry that also for a few seconds. Dilute this with the strained gravy from the dripping-pan; then mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of good vinegar, and keep it boiling for five or six minutes, stirring well; move it back, throw in 1 table- spoonful of chopped capers, with the fillets of three anchovies, and season further with a dust of pepper and a small spoonful of chopped parsley. Roasted Fillet of Beef as in Poland.—Trim a fillet of Beef by removing fat and skin, and let it soak in a cooked marinade for two or three days. Drain it, lard it with thin bacon, put it on the spit, and let it roast at a good fire for one hour. Pour into the dripping-pan 1 teacupful of the marinade in which it was soaked, and the same quantity of sour cream ; baste the fillet well with this, and when done take it off the spit, dish it, and garnish all round with stuffed mushrooms. Strain the stock in the dripping-pan through a fine sieve into a saut6-pan, skim off all fat, and stir into it £ teacupful of melted glaze ; reduce this to a sauce ; Beef—continued. squeeze in the juice of a lemon, strain again, and put into a sauceboat to serve with the fillet. Roasted Fillet of Beef, various modes of serving-.— (1) Boast 41b. of fillet-steak. Slice £ pint of button mush- rooms, and add them to £ pint of Madeira sauce, with one crushed clove of garlic. Pour the sauce on to a dish, lay the steak on top, decorate with some shredded anchovies and stoned olives, and serve. (2) Take 41b. of fillet-steak, pare it well, and lard it, using a fine needle. Line the bottom of a roasting-pan with some pork skin, one sliced onion, one sliced carrot, and some well-washed parsley roots. Place the fillet-steak on top, add 1 pinch of salt, and roast it in a brisk oven for thirty-five minutes, basting- it occasionally with its own juice. Dish it up, and skim the fat off the gravy; then strain this over the fillet, pour £ pint of Madeira sauce over, and garnish with new potatoes. (3) Boast a piece of fillet-steak weighing about 21b., lay it on a dish, and pour over £ pint of good Madeira sauce. Garnish one side of the dish with boiled celery—the white part only—and the other side with Brussels sprouts or cooked gumbos, and serve. (4) Procure 41b. of fillet-steak, pare it, and season with salt and pepper; butter the surface lightly, lay it in a roasting-pan, and cook for ten minutes in a brisk oven. Set it aside to cool, afterwards place it over a pain of chicken forcemeat, sprinkle over with sifted breadcrumbs, and baste with clarified butter. Boast it again for thirty-five minutes, and serve with f pint of Hussaril garnish. (5) 1 pint of hot Bichelieu sauce may be served under the fillet. (6) Boast 41b. of fillet-steak, lay it on a hot dish, and arrange six stuffed tomatoes around it at equal distances. Put in a saucepan £ pint of tomato sauce, and 1 gill of half-glaze; let this boil for one minute, then pour it into a sauceboat, and serve separately. Roasted Ribs of Beef.—(1) Before roasting, take out the wooden skewers put in by the butcher, unroll, season well with salt and pepper, and roll again tightly, fastening securely with metal skewers. Put it in a pan on a trivet, made to keep just above a pint of water poured into the pan ; pepper and salt freely, dredge with flour, and baste. Some persons like £ teacupful of chilli vinegar poured over the roast just before it is done, and a minced onion, with a sprig or two of thyme and parsley stewed in the gravy. (2) Bibs of Beef (Fig. 102, 10) may be boned, rolled, tied round with a string, and so roasted in a solid lump, which is convenient for carving, and also more presentable cold ; but it is questionable whether boned joints of meat are quite so juicy and succulent as those in which the bones are allowed to remain. In the former case, however, the bones may render service by helping to make stock-broth. (3) Bemove the backbone (chine) and ribs, skewer or tie into a round shape, and rub over both sides with flour. Allow a longer time for roasting than when on the bone, as the meat is in a more compact form. When done, let it stand skin side up on the dish, and carve thin slices. Serve with the gravy. Fig. 143. Chuck-rib of Beef. (4) Select a chuck-rib of Beef (Fig. 143) cut short, and take out the chine-bone, leaving only the rib. Boast one hour