THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 19? For details-respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Brill—continued. with it half the liquor of the oysters and mushrooms, and boiling it on a sharp fire, adding by degrees the remainder of the liquor; thicken with the yolks of two eggs, pass it through a sieve, and place it near the fire, but do not let it boil; remove the sauce back, add gradually, while stirring, 4oz. of butter, a small piece of red butter, made from lobster coral, and do not let it boil. When done, drain the fish, surround the head and tail at one side with a group of trimmed oysters, and at the other with white button-mush- rooms, pour over the fish half the sauce, and place on the middle of it button-mushrooms, truffles, and a few crayfish- tails and quenelles in alternate groups (Fig. 210). Serve the remainder of the sauce in a sauceboat. Brill a. la Conti.—Take off the skin from a Brill, clean and wash it, score it on the back several times, put it into a saucepan, with a tumblerful of olive-oil, half that quantity each of rich stock and white wine, a few finely-chopped sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer slowly over a slow fire until the fish is cooked, taking care not to cook it too fast, or it will break in pieces. Put it on a dish when done, and keep it hot. Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich stock into a saucepan, and reduce to half the quantity, adding 1 pinch of minced parsley. Pour this over the fish, and serve. Brill a la Hollfilldaise. - Take a nice fresh fish, rub it well with salt, and boil it in a kettle with 6qts. of water to which lib. of salt has been added. Put it on the fire, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. Prepare a sauce as follows: Put Jib. of butter in a stewpan with four yolks of eggs, the juice of half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 pinch of pepper; put it on the fire, and let it simmer gently, stirring all the while. When the butter is partially melted, remove the pan from the fire, and keep it off until the whole of the butter melts, keeping it well stirred all the time; let it thicken on the fire for a minutes, then add lqt. of new milk, and put it on the fire again; stir it well, but do not let it boil, as it would soon curdle ; then pour it through a tammy, put it into a clean stewpan, and place it in the bain-marie. Keep it well stirred until required. This sauce may either bo served separately in a sauceboat or poured over the fish. Brill a la Kavigote.— Clean a Brill, selecting as small a one as possible, slit it down the back, dust it over with salt and pepper, put it on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it; or it may be wrapped in buttered or oiled paper and baked in the oven. Put it on a dish when done, and serve with a sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce coloured green with chopped tarragon, chervil, and chives. Brill a la Saint Menehould,—Put any pieces of cold boiled Brill into a saucepan with sufficient thick bechamel sauce to moisten them ; warm them, put the mixture into a baking- dish, smooth the surface with a knife, cover it with grated bread and Parmesan cheese, put it into the oven, and brown it. Take it out, and serve hot. Brill Boiled in Wine.—Clean a good-sized Brill and split it down the back. Butter a dish, place the fish on it with the brown side down, pour over it a bottle of Madeira or white wine and a little water, sprinkle over with salt, and place it covered upon the fire. Let it boil gently for a few minutes, then remove it to the side, and leave it for half- an-hour. Place the fish when done on a long dish, and pour over it the following sauce: Take the liquid the fish has been boiled in, and mix loz. of butter with it. Beat up in a basin three yolks of eggs, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of cream or milk, and strain it through a gravy strainer; add this to the other, also loz. of fresh butter pulled into pieces, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and a little finely-chopped parsley. When the butter is dissolved, the sauce is ready to be served in a tureen, and a little over tho fish. Brill au Gratill.—Mix 4oz. of flour in lqt. of milk, remove all the lumps, and pour it into a stewpan, adding a sprig each of parsley and thyme, one or two shallots, and a bay- leaf (all tied together) ; then add J saltspoonful of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Stir this well over a quick fire, and let it remain there until it is quite thick; then tako it off, mix in Jib. of butter and two yolks of eggs, stir well together, and strain. Pour a little of the Brill—continued. sauce on to a dish, then place on it a layer of fillets of the fish, season with pepper and salt, then another layer of sauce, then again of fish, alternately. Leave enough sauce to pour over the top to cover it. Next dust the top slightly with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, place it in the oven, let it remain for half-an-hour, use the salamander to give it a brown colour, and serve it on the dish upon which it was baked. Brill with Orlys of Whiting1. — Take a Brill, cleaned and with the fins cut off, and put it in cold water for two hours ; afterwards wash it well in clean water, put it in a fish-kettle with 1 table-spoonful of salt sprinkled over it, cover it with a cloth, pour boiling water on the top, and let it simmer for half-an-hour. Cut some fillets of whiting which have been skinned across and lengthwise into strips, cut a small onion into slices, take a few sprigs of parsley, and put in a dish with the whiting; sprinkle some salt and pepper on the top, and a squeeze of lemon-juice, and let them pickle for about two hours. Take out the whiting fillets and dry them, dip them in batter, fry them in boiling fat, drain them, and garnish the dish with them, interspersed with a few sprigs of fried parsley. Broiled Brill.—(1) Clean a small Brill, incise the back down to the bone, dry it well, lay it on a dish, put some salt, pepper, and a little sweet oil over it to prevent it from drying, and broil over a slow fire for about three-quarters-of- an-hour. To prevent the gridiron making black streaks on the fish, lay some straws over it. (2) Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped onions and Jib. of salt, and rub them well into the fish, which must have been cleaned and scored with a sharp knife in the belly part; then pour a little salad oil over it, dip it in flour, put it back upwards on a gridiron over the fire, but not close to it, and let it remain twenty-five or thirty minutes. Then place another gridiron on the top, turn it over to cook the other side, and put it over the fire for thirty or forty minutes. Dish it up, and pour some Sauce a la Menniere over it. To make this sauce, Soyer tells us to put Jib. of butter into a stewpan with 1 breakfast-cupful of melted butter; put it on the fire, and keep on moving the pan when it is hot, but do not allow it to oil. Then break the yolks of two eggs in a basin, add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk or cream, and strain it through a tammy, seasoning with a little salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Mix all quickly, and pour it over the fish. This sauce should always be served poured over the fish, and not in a sauceboat. Fried Brill. — Skin and clean a Brill, put it into a basin with sufficient olive-oil to cover it, and let it soak for an hour; then put it into a frying-pan with a little of the oil, and fry it to a good colour and until quite clone. Take it out, cut it up into fillets, put it on a dish, and garnish with cooked stuffed olives and a sauceboatful of anchovy sauce. BRINE.—This is a purely Anglo-Saxon word, signi- fying salt-water—as the “briny ocean”; but the usages of cookery have converted it into signifying the nearly saturated solution of salt in water; that means, as much salt dissolved in the water as it can be made to take up. For Brine in combination with other salts and spices, see Pickles. (1) Dissolve lib. of common salt and loz. of saltpetre in soft water till it will take up no more. (2) To No. 1 add Jib. of sugar or treacle ; but bay-salt is recommended when the meat is to be kept for a very long period. Meat preserved in Brine that has been used for curing several times, however, is said to become poisonous. BRIOCHES.—This is the name of a sort of French pastry, greatly esteemed wherever introduced, and useful for a variety of confectionery. It is made with flour, butter, and eggs. The French have an idiom in which the term is introduced thus: faire une brioche, signifying to make a mistake or false note in music; but a witty author observes, “ This should not throw discredit upon the pastry, which is really excellent, and one of the ornaments of our desserts, provided sour milk and bad