THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 33 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads Apples—continued. to which it is exposed. It is rarely satisfactory unless kept in or on ice some time before it is required for use. Apple Puddings.—(1) Peel, quarter, and remove the cores of eighteen Apples. Mix Jib. of finely-chopped suet, lib. of flour, and a pinch of salt, with water, into paste of a rather stiff consistency. Line a buttered pudding-basin with this (the pudding-basin should have a round rim). Put in the Apples, with six cloves, a little grated lemon-peel, a good handful of sugar, and about 1 gill of water. Moisten round the edge where the paste has been trimmed off the basin, and cover the top with a flat of paste, which must be soldered to that lining the basin. Tie a pudding-cloth over the basin, put the pudding into boiling water, and boil for two hours. Bemove the cloth, and run a small knife round the inside of basin, so as to loosen the pudding without cutting it. If the basin was fairly greased, the pudding should turn out easily. Lay the flat dish accu- rately upon it, upside down, and turn over quickly. If this is neatly effected, the pudding should remain unbroken. (2) A very excellent Apple Pudding is given by Dubois, who advises that the cloth should be tied under the basin. The ingredients are arranged as follows: Prepare a mince of Apples, sweeten it, and thicken it with a little apricot marmalade. Butter a dome-mould or basin, and line it with very thin short paste; fill the hollow with the Apples, setting them in layers, and sprinkling over each layer a pinch of currants and one of chopped raisins or sultanas. Close up the pudding with a flat of paste, and solder round the edge of the mould. Butter Fig. 33. Apple Pudding Boiled in Mould. the centre of a nap- kin, and lay it over the mould, drawing tight and tying underneath. Plunge into boiling water, and boil for two hours on a slow fire, but keeping the saucepan covered, and not interrupting the boiling. Drain, remove the napkin, and turn the pudding out on a dish (see Pig. 33). Pour over the pudding, before serving, some apricot marmalade or syrup, mixed with a little kirschenwasser or maraschino. French Mode. ■— Cut Apples, peeled and cored, into very thin slices; boil them for half-an-hour, adding a sufficient quantity of pounded lump sugar, well-washed currants, Malaga raisins, and white wine. When these are boiled together so that the Apples will mash into a marma- lade, smear with butter the bottom of a circular dish which is rather deep and will stand the fire. Break up into crumbs a good quantity of sweet biscuits; strew a layer of these crumbs at the bottom of the dish, and over them put a layer of marmalade, then another layer of crumbs, and so on, continually diminishing the circumference, so that the pudding is conical in shape, almost terminating in a point. The top layer should be composed of biscuit. Beat up five whole eggs with 5 pint of milk and 1 liqueur- glass of kirschenwasser; pour this over the pudding, and immediately set it on a stand in a moderate oven. Leave it there for half-an-hour, and serve very hot. German Style (Potjdin Allemand, or Deutscher Pudding).—Mr. C. Beichert contributes the following receipt as a special favourite. The ingredients required are: fib. of butter, lib. of caster sugar, lflb. of white breadcrumbs wetted with a little milk, ^lb. of chopped cooking Apples, fib. sultana raisins, 6oz. of mixed candied peel chopped small, ten yolks of eggs, and ten whites whipped to a stiff snow. Cream the butter by working with the sugar, mix in the yolks of the eggs, then the wetted breadcrumbs, the peel, sultanas, and lastly the whipped whites of the eggs, very lightly. Fill some well- greased charlotte-moulds, and either steam or bake for an hour-and-a-half in the oven, the mould standing upright in a little water. Serve with a sauce made by diluting red-currant jelly with water. Baked.—(1) Take twelve large Pippins, or other cooking Apples, pare and core them, and put them into a saucepan with four or five table-spoonfuls of water. Boil till quite soft and easy to mash, and then heat them up well. Stir in lib. of Apples—continued. powdered loaf sugar, the peel of three lemons, cut thin and beaten in a mortar (f teaspoonful of essence of lemon will do as well), and the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs, and mix all together. Bake in a slack oven, in a dish lined with puff paste, and with the edges ornamented. Sprinkle well with fine sugar before serving. (2) Fill a 3qt. earthen dish with pared and quartered Apples. Sprinkle over these 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, a grating of nutmeg, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and ^ breakfast-cupful of water. Cover with a sheet of greased paper, and bake for half-an-hour. Boll a piece of short paste, and cut into a strip 2in. deep to reach round the pie-dish. Boll more paste to cover the dish. Take the pie-dish from the oven, slip the strip of paste between the Apples and the dish, and put on the top crust, after moistening that part of the rim upon which it will rest. Beturn to the oven, and bake for another hour. Dust with caster sugar, and serve with sugar and cream. (3) Boil and strain twelve Apples as for sauce. Stir in ilb. each of butter and sugar. When cold, add four well- beaten eggs. Pour into a baking-dish, thickly strewn with crumbs of bread, and strew crumbs on the top. When done, grate white sugar freely over it before serving. (4) Ingredients : Three eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of butter (melted), 1 breakfast-cupful of now milk, 1J breakfast-cupfuls of minced Apples, 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon. Mix well together, and bake in a small dish lined with puff paste. Dutch Style.—To 1 pint of flour add 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, £ teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and g teaspoonful of salt, and rub through a sieve. Beat an egg and stir into j breakfast-cupful of new milk. Bub 2 table- spoonfuls of butter (salt butter will do, in which case less salt is used) into the flour. Mix the paste thoroughly with the milk and egg, and roll to |in. deep on a well-buttered baking-sheet. Pare and core the Apples, cut them into eighths, and press these close together in rows into the dough. Sprinkle well with caster sugar, bake in a quick oven for about twenty-five minutes, or until the paste is done, and cut into squares before serving. This is to be eaten with orange-flavoured custard, cream, or a sweet sauce. Apple Pudding- with. Rice.—(1) Well wash a breakfast- cupful of rice and soak it for two hours in cold water. Peel, core, and quarter two dozen Apples. Wet a pudding-cloth, and spread it in a colander; cover with two-thirds of the rice ; lay in the Apples, packing as closely as possible; sprinkle the remainder of the rice over them, tie up the pudding-cloth as tightly as possible, and plunge into boiling water. Boil for an hour, and servo with a sweet sauce. (2) A variety of the above can be made which is superior in many respects. The rice is to be parboiled first until it no longer crackles between the teeth. Drain it, and put it into a stewpan, adding a piece of butter as large as a fowl’s egg, grated orange- or lemon-peel, or both; sprinkle pounded white sugar over, and let it cool. Moisten a napkin in cold water, wring it out, butter its centre, spread it over a basin, and then place the rice in layers on the napkin, alternately with quartered Apples, which have been peeled and cored, and slightly fried in butter with a little sugar. Let the last layer, as well as the first, be rice. Tie the pudding up tightly after pressing the mass together, plungo into boiling water, and let it boil continuously for an hour-and-a-half. Drain, unwrap, turn out on to a dish, and mask with Apple Marmalade flavoured with orange. Apple Puffs.—(1) These little pieces of Apple pastry are very simple and tasty. One pound of second or “ patten ” paste— that is, the trimmings off puff paste—will make several. Boll it out to iin. in thickness, and cut into round flats about 4in. in diameter. Peel, core, and coarsely mince some score or so of good Apples, and put them into a saute-pan, with a large piece of butter, a piece or two of cinnamon, and 2 breakfast- cupfuls of raw sugar. Let them toss quickly, so that the Apples may be cooked without breaking ; remove, and pick out the cinnamon. When cool, the flats should have a small quantity spread half-way over each without going quito to the edge (see Fig. 34, a). Wet this free edge with the paste-brush, and fold over so as to quite cover the Apples. Press the edges together neatly, and flatten so as to give the shape F & G