THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 147 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensilst Sauces, <£c., referred to} see under their special heads. Biscuits—continued. 5in. in length and 3in. in breadth, dock (see Fig. 152), and bake in a quick oven. Sponge Biscuit.—Beat ten eggs very thick and smooth, and add gradually lib. of powdered and sifted refined sugar; grate the peel of a lemon, and stir it into the mixture; squeeze in the juice of the lemon, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water; beat the mixture very hard; then take Jib. of potato-flour (this is best), or else of fine wheat-flour, and stir it in very lightly and slowly. It must be baked imme- diately. Have ready some small square or oblong cases of thick white ,paper, with an edge turned up all round, and secured at the corners. They should be about 3in. in length, ljin. in breadth, and ljin. in depth. Butter these paper cases, then put some of the mixture in each (but do not quite fill them), grate loaf sugar over the top, and bake them quickly. These cakes are much better when baked in paper cases, tins being generally too thick for them. No cake requires greater care in baking ; if the oven is not hot, both at top and bottom, they will fall and be heavy, and lose their shape. Biscuits—continued. True-lovers’ Knots.—Break six eggs into a basin, beat in 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar, and sufficient flour to form a stiff paste. Boll this out twice and knead it well, cut off small pieces of it, roll them out long and thin, tie them into true-lovers’ knots, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake them a light brown in a moderate oven. In the meantime clarify 6oz. of sugar, boil it, put in the cakes, toss them in the pan over the fire until they and the sugar are quite dry and white, put them out to cool, and serve as required. Turkish Biscuits.—Warm 4oz. of butter, beat it until creamy, then mix with it 4oz. of sugar, 2oz. of flour, 2oz. of pounded almonds, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Work the mixture well, then roll it out on a floured board, and cut it into small cakes of various fancy shapes. Brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake them in a slow oven. When cooked, the cakes should be of a pale yellow colour. Keep them dry in Biscuit-tins. Sugar Biscuits.—(1) Take 31b. of sifted flour, lib. of butter, 111b. of powdered sugar, 1 pint of milk, 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, 1 small teaspoonful of powdered ammonia dissolved in water, and 4 table-spoonfuls of caraway-seeds. Bub the butter into the flour, add the sugar and caraway-seeds, pour in the brandy, and then the milk; lastly, put in the ammonia; stir all well with a knife, and mix these thoroughly until they become a lump of dough. Flour the paste-board, lay the dough on it, knead it very well, divide it into eight or ten pieces, and knead each piece again separately; then put them all together, and knead them well in one lump. Cut the dough in halves, and roll it out in sheets about Jin. thick; beat these very hard on both sides with the rolling-pin, and cut them out into round cakes with the edge of a tumbler or cutter about that size. Butter baking- sheets, and lay the cakes on them, baking a very pale brown. If done too much, they will lose their taste. These cakes, kept in a stone jar closely covered from the air, will continue perfectly good for several months. (2) Mix well together lib. of flour, lib. of pounded lump sugar, a few blanched and pounded almonds, 6 table-spoonfuls of rose-water, and eight eggs beaten up to a froth. When these are thoroughly blended, put portions of the mixture into small tins of various shapes, and bake them in a slow oven. (3) Bub lib. of lard into 71b. of fine pastry-flour, add 31b. of caster sugar and 4oz. of finely-powdered ammonia, and mix into a dough with milk; but do not work the mixture too much. Take a portion of the dough, and roll it out a little thicker than a penny-piece, cut out with a large-size scalloped cutter (see Fig. 157), dock (see Fig. 152), and lay on buttered baking-sheets; brush the tops over with milk, throw on a few currants, and bake in a sharp oven. Sweet Biscuits.—Mix together Jib. each of butter, loaf sugar, and flour, six eggs, 6 drops of essence of lemon, and 2 table- spoonfuls of well-washed currants. When these are tho- roughly beaten together and incorporated, lay lumps of the mixture with a spoon on an iron plate, and set them in a brisk oven. Tea Biscuits.—Heat 1 pint of sour milk with 1 table-spoonful of butter until it is dissolved, add 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and flour enough to make a soft dough. Break with the rolling-pin (see Fig. 150), roll out, and cut into small Biscuits. Set on a lightly-buttered baking-sheet to bake in a quick oven. These are nice when served hot and buttered. Thick Biscuits.—Into 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour rub 1 table- spoonful of lard and butter mixed, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Make a well or bay, and put in sufficient milk to make a stiff dough. Work well, and break (see Fig. 149), or beat with a rolling-pin (see Fig. 150) for at least half-an-hour. Boll out thin and stamp out into small Biscuits, dock, and bake in a quick oven. Tortoni Biscuits.—Prepare and proceed exactly the same as for Frozen Biscuits, placing the preparation into six round paper cases instead of square ones. When filled, sift evenly over the surfaces 2oz. of finely-powdered macaroons, lay them on the tiers of the frame, and freeze them, serving them precisely as the Frozen Biscuits. Twin Biscuits.—See Soda Biscuits No. 1. Unleavened Biscuits.—Put 8oz. of flour into a basin with J teaspoonful of salt, and add sufficient milk to make a stiff dough; knead this well, roll it out thin, cut it into Biscuits, dock, and bake them in a quick oven. Venice Biscuits.—Bub ljlb. of butter into 51b. of flour until it is all crumbled, add 2Jlb. of finely-powdered sugar, lib. of finely-chopped mixed candied peel, and loz. of finely-powdered volatile salt (ammonia). Make a well <*or bay, and having beaten up one dozen small eggs, pour into the bay and work the flour mixture in until you have a fine dough. Break a little (see Fig. 149), roll out on a sheet, and cut out with a small oval-fluted cutter (see Fig. 157); brush over the tops with egg, and sprinkle over them coarsely-broken loaf sugar, pressing gently into the dough with a spatula. Bake on slightly-buttered baking-sheets in a moderately hot oven. Victoria Biscuits.—(1) Bub 2oz. of butter into 3 Jib. of flour, and make a bay; add 2oz. of caster sugar and one dozen eggs, beat them well up, and make the whole into a firm dough, adding more eggs if required. Break the dough well (see Fig. 149) that it may be thoroughly blended, roll into thin sheets, cut with an oval cutter, put them on lightly-greased baking-sheets, and bake in a hot quick oven. (2) Sometimes chopped almonds and fine sugar are sprinkled over the tops. Wafer Biscuits.—(1) Mix 1 saltspoonful of salt with 1 pint of flour, and rub in 1 table-spoonful of butter until it is quite crumbled ; add the beaten white of one egg and new milk enough to make a stiff dough, and beat for half-an-hour with a rolling-pin (see Fig. 150) or Biscuit-break (see Fig. 149). This done satisfactorily, break off a little piece of dough at a time, and roll it out as thin as paper on lightly-buttered baking-sheets; cut into large rounds with a 3in. diameter cutter, remove the paste from between the rounds with the point of a narrow knife, prick here and there with a small wooden skewer, and bake quickly without burning. Before getting cold, these may be rolled round pieces of stick, or not, according to taste. (2) Bub ljoz. of butter into 8oz. of flour and \ teaspoonful of salt, and add sufficient sweet milk to form a stiff dough; knead this thoroughly, roll it out thin, cut it into rounds, then roll each out as thin as paper, stamp in the middle, put them on a floured baking-sheet, and bake. Take them out, and serve when cold. Walnut Biscuits.—The princi- pal feature of these Biscuits is their shape, which is obtained by the use of moulds or stamps in the shape of half-walnuts (which can be purchased at most confectioners’ tool-makers); one may represent the shell and another the kernel, when the very pretty effect of a half- shelled walnut results (see Fig. 167). Bub Jib. of butter into 21b. of fine flour. Simmer Jib. each of caster and moist Fig. 167. Walnut Biscuit. sugars over a slow fire with J pint of milk. When this T 2