233 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. and over that some orange icing. When the icing is perfectly dry, decorate the Cates with a piping cornet (see Fig. 262). On the top Cake place a crown of gum-paste, which can be purchased at any large confectioner’s. Fig. 262. Cussy Cake. B’Artois Cake a la Parisienne.—Put a thin flat of short paste on to a baking-sheet, cover this with apple and apricot marmalade to about Jin. in thickness, over this put thin slices of apple cut into shape with a cutter, arrange them overlapping one another so that the marmalade shall be covered, sprinkle over caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven until the paste is done. Dip a paste-brush into a little vanilla syrup, mask the Cake with it, cut it into long shapes, and use as desired. D’Artois Cake with Apples.—Make Jib. of puff paste, and proceed as directed for Cakes Stuffed with Cream. Put one dozen of cooking apples, peeled and cut into slices, into a preserving-pan, with 2oz. of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, a little powdered cinnamon, and the grated rind of a lemon ; stir over a sharp fire till tender. Mix 1 tea- cupful of apricot marmalade with them, and stand them on one side till cold. Fill the smaller of the puff-paste rounds with the apple preparation, cover it with the larger one, press it round the edges, which should have been slightly moistened, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, sprinkle caster sugar over the top, and glaze it with a red- hot salamander. When the gateau is cold, tiut it into pieces about 2 Jin. long and lin. wide, put a folded napkin on a dish, pile the pieces like a pyramid on it, and serve. Dauphin Cake.—Beat well together in a basin lib. of butter and the yolks of sixteen eg'gs, place over the fire, stirring so as to thicken without taking colour. Remove and let it cool, when add sixteen more yolks and lib. of sugar. Work the whole well with a spoon so as to make it light. Then add a little salt and the grated zest of a lemon or orange. Take sixteen of the whites of the eggs, and when well whipped add to the mixture with 1 table-spoonful of potato- flour. Pour it out on to a baking-sheet to about ljin. in Cakes—continued. thickness, cover with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When it is cool, cut it up into round flats, graduated so as to fill up the dome, raising these flats on a dish the same as a Neapolitan Cake, and mask each one with apricot marmalade. Cover the surface with a layer of naeringue, and ornament it with the cornet (see Fig. 263). Sprinkle a little sugar over the part ornamented, and put it in a moderate oven to get a little browned; then take it out, and garnish the cavities of the decoration with preserved cherries. Apricot sauce must be served up separately. Delicate Cake.—Warm lib. of fresh butter, and mix with it lib. of caster sugar; add by degrees the whites of fourteen eggs, mix Jib. of cornflour and Jib. of flour together, and beat in with the others. Put in 1 teacupful of milk, 1 teacupful of brandy, a little lemon-juice, and flavourings to taste, and beat well again. Bake in a greased mould in a moderate oven. Delicious Cake.—Bub 21b. of butter into 2 Jib. of flour, add lib. of ground almonds, J teacupful of rose-water, J tumblerful of brandy, twenty-four eggs, 1 large dessert-spoonful of beaten mace, and lib. of sliced candied lemon-peel. Mix all well together, put into a greased tin, and bake. Delille Cake.—Put twelve eggs into a copper pan with lib. of caster sugar, and whip them over a slow fire till firm; take the pan off, and continue the whipping for ten minutes. Fig. 264. Delille Cake. Then work in by degrees lib. of lightly-sifted biscuit-flour, 3oz. of potato-flour, ljlb. of warmed clarified butter, and some lemon-peel, grated on sugar; add 1 pinch of salt, and mix well. Butter the interiors of five oval, flat moulds, that graduate in sizes, then dust them over with caster sugar and potato-flour. Fill the moulds with the batter, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked take the Cakes out of the moulds, trim them neatly, and leave till cold. Glaze three alternate sized, commencing with the smallest, with orange-coloured icing, and decorate them with fancy-shaped pieces of preserved fruit and angelica ; glaze the two remain- ing Cakes with pistachio icing. Pile the Cakes (see Fig. 264) one upon the other, alternating the colours, and ornament the top with a device in spun sugar. Fix the Cake on an ornamented gum-paste stand, and serve. Demon Cake.—Beat 1 breakfast-cupful of warmed butter to a cream, mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, 1 breakfast- cupful of molasses, 1 teacupful of brandy, J grated nutmeg,