60 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respectinj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <$cc., referred to, see under their special heads, Australian Meat—continued. appearance of the outside is no criterion of the condition of the inside, and unless the joint be thawed quite through, it will remain uncooked in the middle. In effecting this “unfreezing” of the joint right to the bone, a little care is advisable. If a bottle of water be carried from an ice-chamber into a warm or muggy atmosphere, it will condense the vapour contained in the atmosphere on its outside. The Frozen Meat does precisely the same thing, hence the outside fibres are apt to turn pale and soppy. The plan which salesmen of Frozen Meat have found most effective is that of thawing by gradation. The Meat is first taken to a dry chamber at about 40deg. Fahr., then to another at, say, 55deg., and then to one at about 70deg., or the same temperature as the outside air. By this plan, after carefully wiping the Meat and dusting here and there with flour, it can be exposed in a shop or a cook’s larder, looking as dry and fresh as home-killed Meat of the same quality. In some other respects the joints of Frozen Meat differ very widely from those of freshly-killed Meat; they yield their nourishing juices somewhat too readily. This peculiarity can be scientifically accounted for, and, happily, prevented. Spon states that if you were about to cook a joint of Australian Meat, the first thing to do would be to pitch from loz. to 2oz. of fat off it into the fire, and hold the lean part in the blaze till the surface is seared and sealed by the action of the fire upon the albuminous juice—an operation that may be equally well effected by placing the part to be seared on a gridiron over a bright, smokeless fire. If it be required to roast a leg, the thick end, where the cut lean is apparent, should be served in the same way. If the leg is to be boiled, the water should be made to boil rapidly, and the leg rested against the side of the saucepan or boiler, so that the thick end at the bottom is covered only by about lin. of water. Let it remain thus on the fire for about ten minutes, and then fill up the boiler with more hot water, lay the leg in its proper position, and simmer till done. If you put the whole leg into the water at once, the water will cease to boil, and the cut end of the mutton will yield its juices freely; which may be all very well where broth is desired, but for a boiled joint should not be allowed. Covering the joint, or the end of it, with a stiff paste made of flour and water answers the same purpose as scalding. If a neck of Australian Mutton is to be boiled, the lean end should be hung in the water when it is boiling rapidly, and the whole joint put into the water gradually, keeping the water on the boil. Australian Tinned Meats vary very slightly, if at all, from American, Brazilian, and other similar imports. AUSTRALIAN WINES.—The manufacture of Wine is rapidly gaining ground in the southern colonies of Australia, namely, New South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia. The Wines so far produced arc of different qualities, many being exceedingly good, luscious, and fruity, and the poorest being good enough for most cooking purposes. The Red Wines are strongly recommended as possessing a remarkable burgundy flavour, quite equal to the fuller wines of the South of Prance. The White Wines, resembling sauteme or muscatel, are excellent for sauces. Until quite recently the practice of fortifying Australian Wines with alcohol to the extent of 35 per cent, prevailed, to the great injury of their British sale; but our Colonial brethren have possibly learned by this time that their chances of supplying the Old Country with Wine, or any other produce, depends more upon the quality of their goods than the price. Indeed, the heavy charges for freightage from Australia to England go far to level their cost with Continental Wines, being moi-e than three times that charged for bringing Wines from Prance. The plains of Adelaide provide Wines similar to those of the South of Spain, whereas the hilly districts are adapted to the growth of clarets and the higher class of Wines, each being christened according to the fancy of the cultivator. Tintara is best known to fame, owing, in a great measure, to the popularity of the vineyard proprietor, Dr. Kelly, who, it is said, has done much to encourage the growth of grapes in Australia. The range of varieties and qualities is very great—from light sherry to heavy port. AUSTRIAN WINES.—Some excellent Wines are produced in Austrian vineyards; the principal districts where grapes are grown being Dalmatia, Lower Austria, the Northern Tyrol, Styria, and Istria. The character of the Austrian Red Wines is lighter and cruder than those of France; while the White Wines, in respect to quality, are inferior to those of the Rhine, but possess a larger pro- portion of alcohol than those of either the Rhine or the Moselle. Among the finest and most celebrated Austrian Wines are the Sparkling and Still Voslauer; while of the Hungarian, the Tokay, Red Carlowitz, and Paluggy are best known. It is almost superfluous to add that for culinary uses suitable Austrian Wines can hardly be surpassed. See Wines. AVA-PARA.—The name given to a wine manufactured by the Tahiti Islanders from the Pandanus odoratissimus, and called Pandanus Wine. AVI.—Fr. for the burnt part of a loaf: Un pain qui a regu I’avi—a loaf that has been burnt. Sometimes spelt Havi. AVOCADO PEAR.—See Alligator Pear. AYOIiI (compoimded of aye and oli, garlic and oil; probably derived from the Spanish ajo, garlic, pronounced ayo).—This is the name given to the “ Butter of Garlic,” which is much used for culinary purposes in Provence and the South of Prance, and wherever garlic is held in esteem. It is especially coveted as a sauce for codfish, whether served cold or hot. Ayoli is made by pounding a few cloves of garlic in a mortar, gradually adding olive-oil until the whole is reduced to the consistency of paste. See Garlic. AZIA.—A French preparation of pickled cucumbers. AZUCARILLO.—A Spanish sweetmeat consisting of flom-, sugar, and rose-water. BABA.—This is the name given to certain sweet leavened cakes having something of the characteristic of brioches. They are said to have been made famous by King Stanislaus of Poland (“ un Prince fort gour- mand,” as Careme describes him), who was so very fond of them that he caused them to be made for him during a state visit paid by him to France in the early part of the seventeenth century. Since that time Fig. 59. Baba Moulds. (Designs by Adams and Son.) they have risen to high esteem throughout the Continent, and attained great favour amongst cooks and confectioners. The modes of preparing Baba cake (or pudding, as it is sometimes called) differ in a few particulars—so also do the modes of serving; but the great secret seems to be to soak the cake in some sweet sauce strongly flavoured with fruit; or in rum-pnnch, and pour a sweet sauce over. The centre cavity also is usually filled to heaping with chopped preserved fruits. Some excellent receipts for its manufacture will be found hereunder.