TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 110 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. "Beef—continued. half into a saucepan, and the other half into a sauceboat; skim off any fat, put some boiled macaroni into the saucepan with the gravy, dust it over with salt and pepper to taste, and add a little grated cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere) and a lump of butter. Make this hot without boiling, put it on a dish with the joint on the top, and serve. Braised Boll of Beef a. la Minton.—Take a piece of ribs of Beef, bone it and roll it up, skewer it, and secure it with string; put it into a braising-pan with six whole carrots, the same amount of turnips and onions, cover with slices of bacon, add \ pint of sherry, and barely cover with stock ; let the whole simmer gently until done. Put into a stew- pan Jib. of chicken glaze; when melted, add nearly ^ pint of gherkins chopped fine. When quite ready, put the Beef on a dish, arrange the vegetables round it, pour the glaze over the top, and serve. Braised Boll of Beef •witli Nouilles.—Select half a sirloin of Beef, second cut (Fig. 125), entirely free it from bone, and trim it straight and neat, especially about the fat. Lard the lean meat with seasoned fillets of bacon. Set the meat in a large crock or basin, season it, moisten it with 1 wineglassful of white wine, mix up with it some minced vegetables, as well as a bunch of sweet herbs, and let it soak for six or seven hours. Then roll the meat up, bind it with string or tape, and braise it. When it is done through, it should be glazed to a nice colour and its stock bo juicy. Set the meat on a dish, and surround it with a garnish of nouilles flavoured with Parmesan cheese and dressed with a little sauce and butter; pass the gravy of the meat through a sieve, skim off its fat, and serve in a sauceboat separately. This piece may be served garnished with vegetables. Braised Bump of Beef.—For this magnificent dish a long stewpan will be required, capable of holding the piece of meat provided; cover the bottom of it with some trimmings of fat and some sliced onions ; set the meat on this, and season it. Put round it a few quartered carrots, a bunch of parsley, and another of sweet herbs. Pour over the moat about £ pint of good broth. Put the cover on the stewpan, set it over a moderate fire, and let the broth reduce to a glaze. Again add more broth to what is left to make about | pint in all. This second quantity of broth is better if the fat has not been skimmed off it. Add 1 wineglassful of white wine as well; cover the meat with a greased paper, and set it over a slow fire, or in a very slow oven; leave it for six hours or more, if the piece of meat is large, but carefully remove the fat off the stock from time to time as it rises, and lighten with a little broth now and again whilst it is reducing. When the meat is done it will be a good brown, and the gravy meaty and savoury. When quite ready to serve, drain the Beef, trim its upper surface as well as both ends, in order to give it a regular shape; put it on a dish, and surround it tastily with a garnish of boiled cabbage, carrots, and small onions. This dish can also be served with a garnish of macaroni, as described for ribs. Skim the Beef—continued. reduced stock, and pass it through a sieve ; slightly thicken it with a little tomato sauce, and serve separately in a sauceboat. Braised Bump of Beef d la Jardiniere.—Take a rump of Beef weighing 161b., bone, bind it with string, and boil in a stockpot for three hours. Drain and trim the Beef, and put it on a drainer in a braising-pan or stewpan; pour in 1 bottle of marsala, lqt. of mirepoix, and simmer for two hours, basting occasionally with the gravy, to glaze the meat. Drain it, and strain the gravy through a silk sieve into a stewpan; reduce it, and add 1 pint of Spanish sauce; skim, and keep it warm to serve in a boat with the meat. Put the Beef on a dish, garnish with a jardinifere, consisting of four parts of cauliflowers, eight of carrots, and four of Brussels sprouts. Put a portion of the cauliflowers at each end and on both sides of the dish, place some carrots on each side of the cauliflowers, and fill the places between with the Brussels sprouts; glaze the Beef and the carrots, and serve with the gravy in a boat. This joint can also be garnished with six portions of carrots trimmed to a pear shape, and six portions of glazed onions, put alternately round the Beef; or cauliflower and stuffed cabbage, or plain lettuce if served cold. Braised Bump of Beef in Parisian Style.—Take a whole rump of Beef, trim it on the broad side, thus giving it an oblong form, and truss it. Spread a braising-pan, or an oblong stewpan, with trimmings of fat, sliced carrot and onion, and place the Beef thereon ; salt it slightly, moisten with pints of broth, and set the pan on the fire until the broth is reduced to a glaze. Then moisten the meat again, to its height, with broth; put it on the fire, and directly it boils remove the pan back, or to such a part of the stove that the stock will braise gently for seven hours. When the stock begins to thicken, add just a little more broth from time to time When the meat is nearly done, lay it on a baking-sheet to drain. Mix into the stock 1 wineglassful of white wine, boil, strain, and skim off the fat. Pare the moat, and put it again into the braising- pan, basting it with the strained stock, to finish cooking it, and giving it a good glaze all over. When ready to serve, cut away transverse slices off the outside To dish up this joint to the best advantage, it should be placed on a basis of cooked meat, minced fine and well seasoned, which may be prepared with the trimmings. Surround it on both sides with a garnish composed of croquettes of potatoes, either of an oblong or round shape, artichoke bottoms, filled with minced vegetables, and small timbales of cabbages. Insert in each end of the Beef a garnished attelette. Free the stock of fat, reduce to half-glaze, and thicken with a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce. Braised Bump-steak.—Bub a small quantity of salt and pepper over the steak, then roll it round and tie it; put it into a braising-pan or stewpan with an onion stuck with three cloves, one carrot, a bunch of thyme, laurel-leaves and parsley, all tied together, and seven or eight peppercorns. Pour in lqt. of stock, pint of French white wine, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. When boiling, skim the liquor, put some hot ashes on the lid, and let the contents cook over a slow fire. The stewpan should be moved from the fire occasionally, to prevent the meat burning at the bottom. When cooked, strain the liquor off the meat into a saucepan, boil it quickly till reduced to about 1 teacupful, mix a puree of tomatoes with the sauce, and stir it over the fire for ten minutes. Put the steak on a hot dish, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. Braised Sirloin of Beef.—-Take out the bone from a sirloin of Beef, first cut (Fig. 126), roll it round, skewer it, and lard it. Put it into a braising-pan, with a good supply of spices, sweet herbs, and other seasonings, pour over sufficient rich stock or white wine to moisten, cover over the pan, closing it so as to prevent the steam escaping, put it on the fire with hot ashes on the top, and set the liquor to boil. Bemove the pan to a less fierce fire, and simmer slowly for about four hours. Take out the Beef when done, and keep it hot. Beduce the liquor to a glaze, strain it and skim off the fat, put it into a saucepan, place the meat in it, warm the whole up without boiling, put the meat on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve.