TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 236 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. bitter ones, adding a small quantity of white of egg to keep them from oiling. Bub the yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs to a smooth paste, then mix them and the almonds with the flour; add the grated peel of half a lemon, and sufficient milk to work the ingredients into a stiff paste. Dredge flour over the paste and paste-board, and roll the paste out to a round Cake, about Jin. in thickness. Cover a baking-tin with a sheet of buttered paper, and place tho Cake on it. Spread a layer of any kind of preserve over the top, place thin strips of the paste across the top of the Cake, then recross Fig. 268. Flat Cake. them with more strips, forming a kind of lattice-work ; trim them off round the edges, and moisten slightly with water to make them stick to the paste. Moisten round the edge of the Cake and fix a strip of the paste round it, forming a kind of wall. Notch it round the edge. Brush the paste over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and sift caster sugar over it; fix a strip of paper round it to prevent its taking too much colour, and bake in a moderate oven. Leave the Cake, when it is cooked, with the paper on, until cold, then take it off, place it carefully on a dish, and serve. (3) Blanch and chop Jib. of almonds and pound them in a mortar, adding occasionally a small quantity of white of egg to keep them from oiling. Warm 4oz. of butter, beat it until creamy with 4oz. of caster sugar, then mix in the almonds and 4oz. of flour. Work the above ingredients into a paste with one beaten egg and a sufficient quantity of milk to make it consistent. Dredge flour over a table or paste-board, put the paste on it, and roll it to a round Cake, about Jin. in thick- ness. Spread a sheet of buttered paper over a baking-tin, lay the Cake on it, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake until lightly coloured in a moderate oven. When cooked, spread a layer of any kind of preserve over the Cake, arrange small ratafias tastefully on the top (see Fig. 268), and serve. Frascati Cake.—Make a large savoy Cake ; bake it and turn it out on a dish, cut it transversely into slices, and each slice into four equal pieces. Then put four of these pieces, which will make a round, on the dish, first pouring over a few table-spoonfuls of cream and sprinkling over 1 pinch of Cakes—continued. preserved orange-peel cut into very small pieces. Then put another layer of the Cake so that the pieces are built up as you would build a brick wall, with one end coming in the centre of the other one (see Fig. 269). Sprinkle over as before, and continue until the Cake resumes its first appearance. Then surround the base with halves of apples cooked in butter until pretty firm, glazed with apricot marmalade, and studded with dried pieces of blanched almonds, sprinkle over with sugar, and put in the oven for a few minutes to glaze. One of the halves of apples put on the top with the Cake cut smooth will be an ornament. French. Cake.—(1) Put Goz. of orange sugar into a bowl, break it up, and add 1 wineglassful of rum and fib. of currants ; stir well, cover over the bowl, and let it remain until wanted for use. Prepare a sponge with 12oz. of flour, ljoz. of dried yeast, and 1 breakfast-cupful of warm milk, and set it to rise. Mix up 21b. of butter with the whites of twelve eggs and double the quantity of yolks, then work in 18oz. of flour; when thoroughly incorporated, stir in 3 breakfast- cupfuls of cream, and lastly 18oz. more flour, making 31b. in all. Sprinkle in a little salt, should it be required, mix in the sponge if sufficiently risen, work well, shape as shown Fig. 270. French Cake. in Fig. 270, put into a quick oven, and bake. Turn it out when done, and serve hot or cold as desired. (2) Put Jib. of ground rice with 11b. of flour into a basin and mix well together, then add lib. of sugar finely sifted. Take 4oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, all blanched and cut small, the grated rind of a lemon, and 1 table- spoonful of orange-flower water, and pound them well together. Then beat the yolks and whites of twelve eggs separately and add to tho other ingredients, and mix well together again until all are thoroughly incorporated. Put the mixture into a buttered tin, aud bake for an hour. Fried Cakes.—(1) Work together lqt. of milk, 8oz. of butter, six eggs, 21b. of sugar, lib. of stoned raisins, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and add sufficient flour to form a stiff paste. When thoroughly incorporated, drop small quantities at a time into hot lard, take them out when well browned, let them get cold, and use them as required. (2) Mix together 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, 1 breakfast- cupful of cream, three well-beaten eggs, 1 teaspoonful of powdered ammonia, and a small quantity of powdered cin- namon or nutmeg, and dredge in sufficient flour to make a stiff paste. Cut the mixture into strips, and twist them ; put a lump of lard into a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the Cakes and fry them. When cooked, drain the Cakes, arrange on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Geneva Cakes.— (1) Large.—Break into a large bowl four- eggs, beat them for a minute, then stir in 5oz. of caster sugar. Put the bowl into a larger one containing boiling water, and whip the sugar and eggs until they are quite stiff, changing the water in the outer bowl about every five minutes, so as to keep the heat as regular as possible—a bain-marie will answer the purpose best. When the batter is thick enough, stir in 3oz. of butter warmed to melting, then lightly and thoroughly mix in 4oz. of finely-sifted flour. Put the batter into a round tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a hot oven for about three-quarters-of-an-hour. When done, turn it out on a sieve, let it get cold, cut it in slices, and spread jam between them; or it may be eaten plain. (2) Small.—Put J-lb. of sugar and the yolks of six eggs into a basin and beat them until they are quite light. Add 1 table-spoonful of cream and a little vanilla-flavoured sugar, beating them well in, the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, pouring in a little at a time, and lastly 4oz. each of flour and potato-flour, and mix thoroughly. Put the