THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 225 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <he., referred to, see under their special heads. Cabbages—continued. four weeks. At the end of that time the pickle is ready for use. (2) Cut a red Cabbage into quarters; take out the stalk, then slice down the Cabbage endwise. Put the slices on a drying-sieve, sprinkle each layer with salt, and let them drain for two or three days. Then put the Cabbage into a jar and pour over boiling vinegar seasoned with spice tied up in a muslin bag; tie down when cold, and use as required. Red-Cabbage Salad.-(1) Put some goose-grease or dripping into a saucepan, warm it, pour in a little vinegar, and add salt and pepper to taste. When the liquor is quite hot, stir in a red Cabbage cut up in small pieces, simmer gently until it is done, thicken with the yolks of eggs, and turn the preparation out on to a dish ; it is then ready for use. It may be served either hot or cold, and butter or oil may be used instead of the goose-fat, but the latter is preferable if obtainable. (2) Eemove all the outer leaves from a firm head of red Cabbage, see that it is clean, but it should not be washed. Cut the Cabbage into quarters, trim off the coarse stalks, and cut it into fine shreds. Put the Cabbage into a basin, dredge it plentifully with salt and pepper, and pour over sufficient vinegar to cover it. Put a large plate over the basin, and let the Cabbage steep for several hours. When ready, drain the Cabbage and put it into a salad-bowl; pre- pare a dressing of vinegar and sweet oil, the latter ingredient predominating, season it well with salt and pepper, then pour it over the Cabbage, and serve. Red-Cabbage-and-Celery Salad.—Select a firm, close red Cabbage, and trim off the outside leaves ; cut it into four pieces, wash in plenty of water, and drain it. Break the leaves apart, remove the stalks and ribs, and cut the remainder into thin shreds. Cut the heart and white sticks of two heads of celery in small pieces, and mix them with the Cabbage in a Fig. 249. Red-Cabbage-and-Celery Salad. salad-bowl; garnish the salad with young green tops of celery, and serve the salad with the following dressing over it: Beat one egg well and mix gradually in with it while beating 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and 2 teaspoonful each of caster sugar and dry mustard. Season the mixture with a small quantity of salt (see Fig. 249). Stewed Red Cabbage.— (1) Thoroughly wash a head of red Cabbage, cut the leaves apart, and trim off any hard, fibrous portion of the stalk. Peel and slice one onion; put it over the fire in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 break- fast-cupful of cold gravy, | saltspoonful of pepper, and 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. Put in the Cabbage, pour 4 table-spoon- fu's of vinegar over it, cover the saucepan closely, and cook gently for an hour or longer, until the Cabbage is tender, stirring occasionally. Serve hot. (2) Trim the Cabbage neatly and wash it, then put it into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil it for ten minutes. At the end of that time turn the Cabbage into a colander, drain it well, and cut it into fine shreds. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan and melt it, then put in the Cabbage and toss it about for a few minutes over the fire. Pour 1 teacupful of claret and the same quantity of broth or water over the Cabbage, season it with salt and a small quantity of sugar, and boil it gently until quite tender. Serve the Cabbage very hot. (3) Take the hearts of two red Cabbages, slice them very fine, and put in an earthenware stewpan with \ pint each Cabbages—continued. of red wine and vinegar, a little butter, and salt to taste. Cover over the pan, and stew very slowly until done. When ready to serve sprinkle a little sugar over all. (4) German.—Trim off all the outside leaves of one or two red Cabbages, wash the remainder in plenty of water, and cut into very thin slices. Put three or four rashers of fat bacon in a stewpan, and fry until crisp ; then take them out, put in the Cabbage, pour in a small quantity of clear broth, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer gently at the side of the fire. When the Cabbage is nearly cooked, dredge it with flour, put in 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of caraway-seeds, and 1 wineglassful of red wine, and finish cooking the Cabbage gently. Peel three or four apples, cut into quarters, and core them ; put them into a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a small quantity of wine. Stew the apples gently until tender, but they must not be too soft. When the Cabbages are cooked, pile them in the centre of a hot dish, garnish with the apples, and serve. Stock Cabbages. — These Cabbages are extensively grown in the South of the West Indies and much liked by Europeans. The stalk, which grows to a great height, as in the Jersey Cabbage, is the only part eaten, and is generally prepared in the following manner: Trim off all the leaves, cut the stalk into pieces, put them into a bowl of salted water, and soak for several hours; take them out, drain, put into a saucepan with a good supply of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and toss them over the fire until done. Put them on a dish, mix a little veloute sauce with the liquor, pour it over, and serve. CABILLAUD.—The French name commonly used for codfish. CABINET PUDDINGS.—See Puddings. CABRILLONS.—Small cheeses made from goat’s milk in Lyons and Auvergne. They are not much known in this country. CACAO.—This is the tree from which the cocoa-nibs of commerce are obtained; it is botanically known as Theo- broma Cacao, the term Theobroma being compounded of two Greek words, signifying “ food for the gods.” For many years this beverage, prepared from the Cacao-nut, was a favourite in Mexico, passing thence into Spain, France, and so to this country. There are several varie- ties, of which the Caracas is undoubtedly the best. The method of preparing Cacao, as practised by the Indian natives of Mexico, was very similar to that at present in vogue. The seeds were roasted in earthen pots, and, after being cleared of their husks, bruised between stones and rolled by hand into cakes. Modern manufacturers add a considerable amount of flavouring, chiefly vanilla.; but the Spaniards prefer cloves, cinnamon, musk, and ambergris. See Chocolate and Cocoa. CACHAL.—A Provencal cheese made by working up the curd of milk with the hands. In a little time it ferments, and obtains a very piquant flavour, which is locally much prized. CACHE-MUSEAU.—A sort of French pasty which somewhat resembles a cabbage, only being much smaller. The term signifies literally something to bury the snout in. CACIS.—See Cassis. CACTUS WINE.—The Pemo Indians of the Gila River make a wine called Tiswein from the fruit of the Giant Cactus (Cereus giganteus) by pressing the syrupy juice from the pulp, mixing it with water in earthen vessels, and exposing it to the sun to ferment. It is very intoxicating, and smells like sour beer. Wines of less importance are made also from other Cactus plants, such as the Cereus Thurberii and Anhalonium fissuratum. CADGER’S BROSE.—See Prose. 2 A