15G THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Blanc-mange—continued. mix well, and pour into a mould packed in ice. Turn it out when wanted for serving. (3) Warm £ pint of new milk or cream, and dissolve in it \oz. of gelatine, previously soaked all niglit in 1 wineglassful of water. Sweeten to taste with white sugar and-flavour with vanilla. When nearly cold, stir into the Blanc-mange the whites of two or three eggs beaten to a strong froth, pour into moulds to set, and turn out to serve when required. (4) Simmer ljoz. of fine isinglass in 1J pints of new milk, add the rind of half a lemon shred very fine, a blade or two of mace, and a stick of cinnamon, and sweeten with 2Joz. of loaf sugar. Blanch Joz. of sweet almonds and eight or ten hitter ones, and pound them with 1 table-spoonful of rose-water ; add this to the milk, and mix. When the isinglass is quite dissolved, strain through white flannel into J pint of rich cream, and stir well together. When it has stood an hour, pour it off into another basin, leaving the sediment at the bottom ; and when nearly cold, pour it into moulds, jelly-glasses, or custard-cups. Two table-spoonfuls of noyeau will answer the purpose of the almonds. The isinglass may be dissolved in 1 pint of water and J pint of milk. (5) Blanch and pound in a mortar lib. of sweet almonds, dilute them with lqt. of cold water, and then pass them through a napkin, squeezing thoroughly. Mix into this almond-milk 9oz. of pounded sugar, and add to it J tea- spoonful each of lemon- and orange-zest; a-quarter-of-an-hour after mix into it twelve or fourteen leaves of gelatine which have been dissolved in a little water; pass this through a fine sieve into a pan, set on ice, stir it slowly with a spoon till it begins to slightly thicken, and then pour it into a cylinder-mould set in a kitchen basin and surrounded with pounded ice. An hour after, the pre- paration ought to be quite set. At serving-time dip the mould quickly into warm water, and turn the Blanc-mange out on to a cold dish. This may be garnished in a variety of ways, and the centre may be filled with clotted cream. (6) Dissolve over a fire ljoz. of isinglass in 1 gill of water ; pour the melted isinglass into lqt. of cream (or mixed cream and milk) sweetened with Jib. of loaf sugar; put this into an enamelled stewpan, and boil slowly for half-an-hour; then strain it, and add Jib. of sweet almonds blanched and shaved fine. Season to the taste with vanilla and 1 wineglassful of Madeira, but do not add the wine while hot. Pour into a mould or moulds. (7) Pour 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water on 2oz. of gelatine to soften it. Boil 3 pints of rich cream. Stir the gelatine whilst on the fire, and sweeten to the taste. When it cools, season with 3 table-spoonfuls of peach-water. Pour ounces of almonds, blanched and pounded very fine and boiled with the Blanc-mange, are a great improvement. When it begins to thicken, pour into moulds. Serve with plain cream. (8) Sweeten lqt. of new milk (or new milk and cream), add two or three laurel-leaves, Joz. each of sweet and bitter almonds blanched and pounded, 1 teaspoonful of ratafia, or the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon. Soak ljoz. of gelatine in a little of the milk, then put all the ingredients into an enamelled stewpan, and stir over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. If cream is used, it should not be boiled with the milk, but added after. Strain the mixture into a basin, and when nearly cold pour it into a mould. A little coloured jelly may be first set in the bottom of the mould as an ornament. (9) Mix 3oz. of cornflour with a little cold milk ; boil lqt. of milk with sugar and lemon-peel flavouring, and pour it into the cornflour, stirring well, so that there are no lumps. Put it again into the saucepan, and stir till it thickens suffi- ciently to leave the sides of the saucepan. Pour it into moulds. The yolk of an egg is sometimes added to make it richer. (10) For 2 pints of new milk allow 1 pint of cream and 2oz. of isinglass. Flavour with lemon-peel, and sweeten to taste. Boil for twenty minutes, and then remove the lemon- peel. When nearly cold, add 1 wineglassful of sherry and 1 liqueur-glassful of brandy, and pour into a mould to cool and stiffen. (11) Soak Joz. of isinglass for some hours in J gill of cold water, and boil in 1 pint of new milk (a little more Blanc-mange—continued. isinglass or gelatine will be required in summer); sweeten with loz. of loaf sugar, rubbing two or three lumps on the peels of a lemon and an orange, and add a very small piece of cinnamon. Blanch six bitter almonds and Joz. of sweet ones, and pound them in a mortar, adding 1 table- spoonful of rose-water by degrees to prevent them oiling. When pounded to a pulp, mix the almonds with the hot milk and gelatine, and then let it stand for half-an-hour. Strain through a fine sieve, stir in J pint of good cream, pour into a mould, and let it stand till set. (12) Take Jib. of sweet almonds and ten bitter ones, blanch, and pound them in a mortar with a little milk. Melt lib. of sugar in 4 tumblerfuls of milk, and in it boil the pounded almonds, flavouring with vanilla. Strain the whole through a piece of coarse muslin, and while the ingredients are still hot, stir into them ljoz. of isinglass, previously dissolved in 2 table-spoonfuls of water and then strained. Pour the whole into a mould, which must remain twenty-four hours in a cold cellar, or six hours on ice, before turning the Blanc-mange out of it. (13) Blanch and peel Jib. of Jordan almonds and Joz. of bitter ones, pound them in a mortar with 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and add lqt. of water gradually ; strain through a cloth, squeeze, and put the almond-milk in a basin. Put 3oz. of gelatine, Jib. of sugar, and 1£ pints of water in a stewpan, stir over the fire till the gelatine is melted, and strain it through a fine sieve ; when cold, add the strained almond-milk and 1 teaspoonful of orange-flower water, and mix the whole thoroughly. Put a cylinder-mould in the ice, fill it with Blanc-mange, and let it remain for two hours; then turn it out of the mould, and serve. (14) Parisian Style.—Take about Jib. of fresh filberts, and have them well pounded together with a few table-spoonfuls of water, moisten with 5 gills of vanilla-syrup, and pass it through a tammy. Mix the preparation up with eighteen leaves of gelatine, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of noyeau liqueur and the same of maraschino. Let it cool on the ice, stirring slowly, and as soon as it is setting gradually introduce into it double its volume of whipped cream. Pour the mixture into a cylinder-mould of low form embedded in ice, and keep it there for an hour. When about to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the Blanc-mange out on a cold dish. (15) Russian Style.—Take J gill of sweetened almond- milk lightly flavoured with orange-zest; dissolve six leaves of gelatine, stir it in, and pour the mixture into a pan. Thicken it on ice, continually stirring, and introduce into it 2 tumblerfuls of whipped cream. Pour into a dome-shaped mould, previously embedded in pounded ice and salt, shut the mould, solder its junctures with paste, and cover it with salted ice. One hour after, dip the mould in tepid water, and turn the Blanc-mange out on an ornamental paper on a dish. Blanc-mange a, la Delmonico. — Blanch Goz. of sweet almonds and 2oz. of bitter ones, put them in a vessel, cover them with cold water, and let them soak for fully one hour. Drain thoroughly through a sieve, and pound them well in a mortar, adding, little by little, 1 gill of cold water, and continue pounding for ten minutes. Now remove to a vessel, add 2 gills of lukewarm water, and mix together with the spatula for two minutes. Spread a large napkin over another vessel, pour on the above preparation, lift up the four corners, and holding them with the left hand, squeeze the liquid through with the right. Lay this almond-milk aside for further use. Put into a saucepan 2 gills of cold water, Joz. of gelatine, a piece of vanilla bean 2in. long and split in halves, and 4oz. of powdered sugar. Mix well with the spatula for two minutes, remove the spatula, put on tho lid, and let tho contents infuse for thirty minutes. Then place the saucepan on the hot stove, and stir gently from the bottom, allowing it to boil slowly for four minutes. Remove it from the fire, and let the pan rest on the table for three minutes. Pour in tho almond-milk, mix again for two minutes, using the spatula, and strain the whole through a fine sieve into another vessel. Have a 3-pint fluted Blanc-mange mould, put some broken ice at the bottom of a pail, place the mould on it, arranging more broken ico around the sides, so that tho mould is entirely sunk in the ico as far up as tho edge. Stir the preparation for one minute, then pour it into the mould, cover the pail with a napkin, and leave