127 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. ices, ckc., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. 2oz. of bay-salt (pounded), 3oz. of moist sugar, |oz. of whole pepper, ioz. of long pepper, two blades of mace, £oz. of whole allspice, two bay-leaves, five or six sprigs each of thyme and marjoram, two stalks of basil, and four or five white savoury. Boil in 3 pints of water for half-an-hour, skim, and let it stand to get cold. Bub the Beef all over with a little salt before putting it into this pickle. Keep it there for a fortnight, turning and rubbing often. This quantity of pickle is only enough for a small piece of meat. To cook this, put lqt. of cold water and a quantity of suet, or Beef- dripping, into a large stewpan; put in the Beef and cover it over with the fat, and stand a plate upon that. Cover up, and set to bake for six hours, turning the meat when half done. Let it drain as it gets cold. (5) Select the thin part of a piece of Beef. When the rib piece, or flank, has been cut off, remove the bones, if any, rub it well with salt, and let it stand for a couple of days. Mix ioz. each of pepper, black pepper, mace, cloves, and chopped parsley, all the spices being kept whole. Spread the Beef over with this, roll, and tie it up securely with tape. Put it into a saucepan with a little water, or weak stock, and stew gently until done. Take it out, put it under a slight weight until cold, removo the tape, and it is ready for use. (6) Put a piece of Beef weighing about 81b. into a bowl, and rub it well with a mixture of 8oz. of coarse moist sugar, half that quantity of all spice, )oz. of saltpetre, and lib. of salt; rub and turn it daily or twice a day for a fortnight. Take it out, wash it well in several waters, and dry it thoroughly. Put some Beef-suet at the bottom of a baking- dish, place the joint on it, cover it over with more of it, put it into a moderate oven, and babe for about four hours, basting frequently. Put it on a dish, pour round rich Becf- gravy, and serve. (7) Put a round of Beef, weighing from 201b. to 301b., into a bowl, rub it well with a mixture of 8oz. of moist sugar, loz. of cayenne, six ground cloves, and 2oz. each of salt, saltpetre, sal prunella, and ground ginger and allspice. Let the meat remain in this for three weeks, rubbing and turning it frequently; then take it out, cut out the bone, filling the cavity with fat, tie it up with broad tape, cover it with flour-and-water paste, put it in a dish, and bake for from three to four hours, or until done. Take it out, remove tho paste and tape, and serve either hot or cold, as required. Spiced Beef Cheese.—Take 41b. to 01b. from the middle cut of the shin; wash the meat on the outside, cut off any part of the skin which is not sweet and clean, and pick off all the fine fragments of bone. Cut the meat into several pieces, and cover with boiling water. Skim carefully as it boils, and then simmer until the meat falls to pieces, and the liquor is reduced to £ pint. Bcmove the meat, season the liquor highly with salt, pepper, sage, and thyme, add it to the meat, and mix with a fork until tho meat is all broken. Pack in a brick-loaf pan, and, when cold, serve by cutting into thin slices. Spiced Bound of Beef, or Hunters’ Beef.—(1) To a round of Beef (Eig. 102, 5) weighing 241b., take 3oz. of saltpetre, 3oz. of coarsest sugar, loz. of cloves, 1 nutmeg, Joz. of all- spice, and 3 handfuls of salt, beating all into the finest powder. Allow the Beef to hang three or four days; remove the bone, then rub the spices well into it, continuing to do so every two days for two or three weeks. When to be dressed, dip it in cold water to take off the loose spices, bind up tightly, and put it into a pan with 1 teacupful of water at the bottom. Sprinkle the top of the meat with suet, cover it over with a thick batter, and lay a piece of greased brown paper over it. Bake five hours. (2) For a large round of Beef, of from 301b. to 401b., take ?lb. of ground allspice, a little bruised mace, lib. of saltpetre, and 21b of common salt. Mix these ingredients well together, and with them rub the Beef well twice a day for ten days! Get 31b. of good Beef-dripping, and lay it over the round of Beef, covering the whole with a thick paste made of flour and water; then put it into a very slow oven to bake for seven or eight hours. It must not be cut up until cold. By leaving the crust of paste sticking round it, it will keep good for two or three months if carefully protected from flies and damp. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Beef—continued. Stewed Beef.—The aitchbone (Fig. 102, 3) is the best part to use for this dish. There is some very juicy meat on the upper side in the large muscle which lies next to the top of the round. It will serve a family for a roast and then may be made into a stew, the flavour obtained by roast- ing adding greatly to the general effect; for this reason, when the meat has not been cooked, brown it in a little fat in a frying-pan before stewing. The bones should not be chopped and splintered, but sawed through carefully, and all tho fine crumbly pieces removed before cooking. Other good pieces for stews are 21b. or 31b. from tho middle cut of the shin, or the flank end of a large roasted sirloin, or the upper part of the chuck-rib (Fig. 102, 11). Any part that has bone and fat, as well as lean, either cooked or uncooked, makes the better stew. (1) Bemovo the meat from the bones, and put tho bones with part of the fat into the stewpan. Cut the meat into small pieces, and if not previously cooked, dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, and brown in a frying-pan in salt pork fat or dripping. When this is done, put them into the stewpan where the bones and fat are waiting. Cut up two onions, one small white turnip, and half a small carrot into |in. dice. Cook thorn slightly in tho dripping in the frying-pan, and afterwards add them to the stew. Four on boiling water enough to cover all tho contents, and simmer two or three hours, till tho meat is quite tender. While the meat is cooking, pare six or eight small potatoes, and soak them in cold water; pour boiling water over them, and boil five minutes to take out tho acrid taste. When tho meat is done, and tho stock has boon skimmed, drain these potatoes and add them to the stew. Season with salt and popper to taste. Bemove all bones before serving. When dumplings aro to bo served with the stow ; add them when the potatoes are nearly done. The liquor should come up just even with the potatoes, that tho dumplings may rest on them. Cover closely to keep in tho steam, and cook ten minutes without lifting' tho cover Tako out tho dumplings, put tho meat and potatoes in tho centro of a large dish, and tho dumplings round the odge. Bemove tho fat from the broth, and add more salt and pepper if needed. If tho broth bo not thick enough, add a little flour worked smooth in cold water and boil five minutes longer. Add 1 teacupful of tomato sauce and 1 toaspoonful of chopped parsley. Pour part of tho gravy over tho meat, serving the remainder in a sauce-tureen. (2) This is best when mado of slices cut from an underdono roast, and simmered in any liquor in which meat has been boiled; but if none is at hand, use water instead — just covering tho Beef. To half - a - dozen slices of the usual size, weighing about lib., add 2 table-spoonfuls of chilli vinegar, 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, 1 table-spoonful of acid fruit jelly, 1 table-spoonful of butter, I teaspoonful of salt, 1 toaspoonful of celery-seed, 1 saltspoonful of black pepper, ono raw turnip grated or scraped fine, one mashed large potato, ono minced onion, and a few sprigs of parsley. Boil up, and serve. Cold Beef-steak or mutton-chops are delicious cut up in small pieces and mixed or stewed as above. (3) Trim off all the fat and skin from a piece of rump of Beef weighing 2,)lb. or 31b., and cut it up into pieces about 3in. squaro. Put them into a saucepan, pour over lqt. of good broth, boil it up, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, remove the pan to tho side of tho fire, and simmer gently for a couple of hours. Add the finoly-chopped rind of a lemon, cook for twenty minutes longer, and stir in a mixture of 2 table-spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, half the quantity of flour, 1 wineglassful of whito wine, and a small quantity of mushroom or other ketchup. When done, put the meat on a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. A wine- glassful of sherry wine may be added to tho sauce if desired. (4) Chop up 21b. of juicy Beef, freed from fat, skin, and gristle, brown them in a saucepan with two onions cut in square pieces, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and cook for six minutes. Stir well, and moisten with lqt. of broth and 1 gill of tomato sauce. Put in also eight raw potatoes cut in quarters, and cook thoroughly for twenty- five minutes with a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 good pinch of salt, and \ pinch of pepper, also ono crushed garlic. When done, turn out the whole, without the bunch of sweet herbs, on to a dish, and serve.