THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 96 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. puddings and pies, and stews nicely. The fore-ribs (9) are by many preferred to the sirloin. They are certainly more economical, but have no “under-cut.” The middle-- ribs (10) are not so good as the fore-ribs, and the chuck- ribs (11) are still more inferior. The worst cut of the chuck-ribs may be recognised by a piece of yellow gristle running round it, between the muscles, about an inch from the outside. The leg of mutton piece (12) yields Beef-steaks. It has no bone, and, although not high- priced, the meat is generally tender and juicy, and not at all fat. The brisket (13), or ^breast, is mostly used for pickling; the neck, clod, and sticking-piece (14) being only fit for soups, stews, and puddings. The shin (15) is also good for soups, stock, and Beef-tea. To know more than this it will be necessary to study the animal from an anatomical point of view, which would be a decidedly unnecessary move in advance of the ordinary butcher; but, for the cook’s assistance, an extensive variety of drawings, illustrating the different cuts of Beef, are distributed through the text of this article. For special information as to the plan of carving any par- ticular joint, see Carving. Beep-steaks.—This term is evidently of early origin, dating back into the Anglo-Saxon period, when the half-civilized native broiled his slice of “ quivering flesh ” on a stick or stake over the embers of a wood fire. Although modern usage has established a different method of spelling this word according to whether it applies to the flesh or to the wood, there is no doubt that both are virtually identical. The old Norse for “a cook” is steikari; therefore it is more than probable, as Wedg- wood states in his “ Dictionary of English Etymology,” that “as roast seems originally to signify the rod or what the meat was stuck on by way of a ‘ spit,’ so it is probable that steak is a modification of stick, or stake; ” and the German for Rump-steak is Rumpfstuck. The Frenchman knows Beef-steak as Beef-teck, or tele, just as our roast Beef is converted by them into Rosbif; the German, as Rindfleischschnitte; the Spaniard as Lonja de Came de Vaca; and the Italian as Braciuda di Manzo— not an approach upon the simplicity of “steak.” From this we understand that the word “ steak ” does not apply to any particular cut of the Beef, but is applied generally to a slice of Beef prepared for broiling. This may be, therefore, either a fillet-steak or a loin-steak; a rump-steak or a steak from any other part of the body, taking its distinguishing name from the part whence it is cut. There are certain features about a steak that are specially worthy of the cook’s notice. They are usually cut for broiling, and should therefore be from the tenderest part of a good animal. First in order is the “Porterhouse” steak, cut from the best part of the loin near the rump; then comes the fillet-steak, or “tenderloin,” which is cut from the underpart of the sirloin. These latter are round in form, and exceedingly juicy and tender. Steaks from the upper-cut of the loin are not so often met with, because in cutting them the joint must suffer in appearance. The rump of Beef is usually devoted to the cutting of steaks; but the largest are those cut from the round, which are not always the most delicate or toothsome, because that part is permeated by a network of fibre, making it tough to masticate. But, no matter where the steak is cut from, the success of its serving depends almost ex- clusively upon the skill and care of the cook. In the first place, the meat should be hung for a week or more after killing, if in the winter; but if in the summer-time, it must be beaten with a steak-tenderer, or a hammer fitted with sharp teeth. Some cooks score the meat on each side across and across with a sharp knife; but that is not so satisfactory in its results as beating. The steak should be cut from fin. to lin. in thickness, unless cut thinner or thicker for some especial Beef—continued. purpose. Broiled steak or fried steak must be cooked quickly over a brisk fire; to stew steak requires more time, to ensure its being tender. Broiled steak does not require any sauce in its serving beyond a slight sprinkle of chopped parsley, a bit of butter in the dish, and perhaps a dessert-spoonful of mush- room ketchup; or some say the rubbing over once of the hot plate with the cut surface of a garlic clove or onion. Fried steak is improved by being served with mushroom, oyster, or tomato sauce, heightened by 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovy and a shred or two of horseradish. Various receipts for cooking steaks will be found in their alphabetical order. Beef, we are informed, is the least wasteful of all meats to cook; but it is not so much on this account as for its exquisite flavour, that British cooks, and foreign chefs practising in this country, where they can get prime Beef, have devoted so much time and intelligence to its culinary treatment. The receipts following give an exhaustive variety of the modes of cooking Beef as employed by all nations and all classes. They are inserted alphabetically, without regard to their comparative merits. Beef-tea. — The term “tea,” as applied to this “infusion of Beef,” is exceedingly inappropriate, no tea whatever entering into its composition; the beverage we style “ tea ” being but an infusion of the leaves of that plant, and as much entitled to be called tea-beef as this has to be called Beef-tea. Nevertheless, custom lias confirmed the adoption of the term, and grudgingly permitted its extension to some other meats, such as veal or chicken. Beef-tea is unquestionably one of the gems of the sick-room, although the proportion of nourishment con- tained in it cannot be compared to solid Beef; yet its pleasant meat flavour, its freedom from fat, its liquid state requiring no exertion in mastication and but very little in swallowing, have gained for it a high position amongst invalid foods, which it appears likely to maintain in spite of the acknowledged fact that from being a fluid it passes through the stomach before it is sufficiently digested, and frequently causes flatulence and intestinal irritation and uneasiness. On this account it should be taken in small quantities with a spoon, and not drunk like tea from a cup. It should also be served with a thin slice of toast cut into lin. squares, each square being quite separated in cutting from its fellows, and the plate containing them quite free from crumbs. Lightly- boiled rice is sometimes preferred. The toast or rice, when soaked and swallowed, excite the stomach to detain the Beef-tea with the solids until it is digested, and provide a very important addition to the nourishing value of the food. A blade or so of mace added to the Beef-tea whilst infusing, is believed to avert flatulency; but some invalids object to the taste of spice, in which case it is better left out. The same remark applies to peppercorns and salt. Physicians occasionally prescribe the addition of port wine, beer, or brandy, in which case the stimulant should be added just before serving. Milk or cream in small quantities is often added to increase the nutritive value of the Beef-tea. A good nurse will see that the Beef-tea when served to the patient is quite warm but not too hot to drink right off, for to have to wait until it is cool is very irksome to an invalid. A la mode Beef.—The precise moaning of this term is not so clearly defined as it might he, there being nothing suf- ficiently characteristic in the receipts given by different cooks to give any one of them an indisputable claim to originality. It is more than probable that the term A la mode, or “fashionable,” as applied to Beef, was first used in this country by an enterprising foreigner, who thus announced to the public that Beef at his establishment was prepared “a la mode Frangaise. ” A la mode dining-rooms — or “alamode,” as it is commonly written now — were at one time very popular, but have fallen out of fashion in