THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 37 Apples—continued. brush for that purpose. Shake some rough sugar over the top, and return to the oven to bake a nice brown colour. These turnovers may be served hot or cold. Apple Water.—This delicate drink is very grateful to invalids, especially after it has been standing for a time in ice. (1) Slice two large Apples, put them into a jug, and pour a pint of boiling water over them. Lot them stand for an hour. Sweeten very lightly. (2) Apple Water is also sometimes made by boiling lib. of sliced Apples for an hour in 2 pints of water, with 1 table- spoonful of powdered loaf sugar (or none at all if preferred), and straining through a tammy. Apple Water Ice.—Peel and core the required number of Apples, cut them in quarters, and put them into a saucepan. Set the pan over a clear fire, and cook them until they are tender. Pass them through a very fine sieve over a basin, rubbing as much through as possible, and mix them up with a sufficient quantity of water, highly flavoured with lemon. Pack the basin in ice, and when the mixture is frozen, it is ready for use. Apple Wine.—Pare and core sufficient Apples to make lib. when cut up into quarters. Put them into a basin, mix in half the quantity of sugar, and pour over 2qts. of boiling water. Let them remain in this until the liquor is quite cold, then strain off the liquor into another basin, and beat the Apples to a pulp. Pour the liquor in again, let it stand for an hour or so longer, strain it again, and it is ready for use. Baked Apples.—(1) Core and peel some good cooking Apples, and set them almost touching in a shallow baking- dish. Mix in proportion 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon-rind to 6 teaspoonfuls of sugar, and fill with it the cavities from which the cores have been taken; pour in sufficient water to cover the bottom of the dish, and bake in a very quick oven till soft, basting frequently with the syrup formed with the water and sugar. (2) Some cook's advise that the Apples should not be peeled, but sliced off at the top and bottom, and cored. Fill the core-holes with sugar, and put a piece of butter and nutmeg on the top of the sugar. Add water as above, bake, and baste frequently. The syrup should be served with the Apples. To prevent the Apples from blackening or blistering before they are done through, a sheet of greased paper should be laid over them. Baked Apples with Butter.—Pare a few good Apples—say eight or ten—and remove the cores with a long cutter. Spread a thin layer of butter on a baking-dish, and set the Apples thereon, with a pinch of powdered cinnamon sprinkled over them. Fill the core-holes with pounded sugar, and baste over with about a table-spoonful of butter melted for the purpose. Put in the oven until done, and serve hot. Baked Apples, Glazed.—We are indebted to Urbain-Dubois for this pretty but simple dish. Choose some small Apples of an equal size ; hollow them in the centre by removing the cores, peel them, and let them boil in acidulated (with lemon- juice or citric acid), slightly-sweetened water. Care should Fig. 38. Baked Apples, Glazed, and Ornamented with Cherries, Icing, and Angelica. be taken that the water only just simmers, so that the Apples may not break. Keep them covered. Drain them when ready, and place in a kitchen basin; pour over a little syrup, and let them cool. Well coat them with apricot mar- malade, and decorate them round the top with angelica Apples—continued. rounds. Fill the hollows with preserved cherries, or with fruit jelly, and dish in a group, decorated with angelica slips cut like leaves, as shown in Fig. 38. The angelica rounds may bo cut with a tube. Baked Apple Roll.—Roll out thinly a good tart-paste, spread over it thin slices of pared and cored Apples, sprinkle well with sugar, and roll up. Seal the ends, and lay in a baking-pan, with a little water, sugar, and butter round the roll. Grate a nutmeg over all, and put into the oven until cooked. Any other fruit does as well. Bavaroise of Apples a la St. Albans.—Core a dozen large, sweet, cooking Apples, cut them up into slices of equal thickness, and with a tin biscuit-cutter cut them into rounds of equal size. Put them into a saucepan with sufficient syrup to cover them, and stew gently, without allowing to boil or to cook too much. Take them out, drain, colour one half with cochineal, and let them all get quite cold. Wash the bottom and sides of a charlotte mould with a little warmed Apple Jelly, pack the mould in ice, put the rounds of Apples in chains or circles round it, commencing from the bottom and finishing at the top, and let them set; then fill in the spaces between the pieces of Apple with more of the jelly. Put a smaller mould in the large one, and fill the cavity between them with more of the warmed jelly, being careful not to disturb the Apple. Let it set, and then remove the inner mould. Pare and core half-a-dozen Apples, cut them up in pieces, put into a saucepan with sufficient water to moisten them, and add the zest of half a lemon, two cloves, and a small quantity of apricot jam or marmalade. Put the saucepan on the fire, and boil until the mixture is quite thick ; then add \oz. of soaked gelatine, and stir well until it is dissolved. Rub this through a fine sieve into a basin, stir in a teacupful of cream, and pour it into the centre of the mould. Then cut when set, and serve. Buttered Apples.—Pare and core a dozen or so large Apples and put them into a deep pie-dish, filling the centres of them where the core was cut out with a mixture of sugar and butter. Put a few lumps of butter in the dish, place this in a saucepan, cover it over, and set it in a cool oven. Baste frequently with the butter, and cook until the Apples are done, but in their original shape, and not burst or broken. Take them out when done, put them on a dish, and serve. Compote of Apples.—(1) Peel about eighteen Apples, and with a tin cutter stamp out the cores; boil them in a light syrup, with the rind of a lemon (pared very thin) and six cloves; when done, remove the peel and cloves, and allow the Apples to get cold. Line a compote-case with tart-paste, put a sheet of paper in next the paste, and fill the centre with flour; set in the oven to bake. When done, and cold, remove the flour and paper, put in the centre some boiled rice, and pile the Apples round it in the shape of a pyramid; mask them over with diluted apricot jam, and ornament the compote with preserved cherries and angelica cut into the shape of leaves ; also a few shredded almonds. Care should be taken that the case suits the shape of the dish it is to be served upon. Remove the case, and ornament the pastry with icing. (2) Make a syrup with 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and a square inch of stick cinnamon; boil slowly for ten minutes, skimming well. Core and peel eight or ten tart Apples, stew them nearly to falling in the syrup; take out and drain, and again cook them a few minutes in the oven. Boil the syrup till almost like a jelly. Arrange the Apples on a dish for serving, fill the core-cavities with jelly or marmalade, and pour the syrup over them. Put whipped cream round the base, and garnish the cream with coloured jellies. (3) Take some ripe Apples, and pare, core, and weigh them, to each pound allowing lib. of fine loaf sugar and two lemons; parboil the Apples, and set them aside to cool. Peel off very nicely (with a penknife) the yellow rind of one lemon, taking care not to break it, and then with scissors trim the edges to an even width all along; put the lemon- rind to boil by itself until it becomes tender, and set it to cool. Allow i pint of water to each pound of sugar; when the sugar is melted, set it on the fire in a preserving-pan, put in the Apples, and boil till they are clear and tender all through, but do not allow them to break. Skim the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. L'NivtRsirr LIBRARY LEEDS