DO THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Beaus—continued. exquisite colour of tlie flower, and it is stated that for more than a hundred years it maintained its ornamental reputation, the pod being unknown as a food until a gardener of Chelsea, named Miller, discovered late in the eighteenth century that it was good to eat. With the exception of the superior quality of the pods of the dwarf Kidney Beans, there is little to choose between the two kinds for flavour. Fig. 98. Scarlet-runner Bean. The varieties of each kind cultivated by market and private gardeners are more numerous than useful so far as the quality of the vegetable is concerned; it is only necessary in purchasing to see that they are young, crisp, and juicy. They become limp and had to cook very soon after gathering. The term kidney is applied to this vegetable on account of the shape of the Bean. Always select those with smooth skins, and which will break across easily and clean without hanging by a shred. Wash them, cut off both ends, and pull away the strings at the edges, then cut them slantingly across (Fig. 100)—not in long shreds, or they will lose all their flavour in the cooking. Boiled French Beans.—(1) Take 2qts. of fresh tender Beans, break off the tops and bottoms carefully, string' both sides, and pare both edges neatly; wash them well in cold water, and drain. Place them in boiling salted water, and cook for twenty-five minutes. Drain again, and return them to cold water, letting them get thoroughly cool. Lift them out, and dry. They are now ready to use when required for salads or any other purpose. (2) String 2qts. of Beans; if too large cut them lengthwise in halves, and cook them in water with salt and butter; drain, and place them in a saucepan with loz. of butter; add 1 teaspoonful of parsley and the same of chopped chives. Cook for five minutes longer, and when done, thicken the gravy with breakfast-cupful of cream, the yolks of two eggs, and the juice of a lemon. Mix well together for two minutes, and serve. French Beans for Garnishing1.—Select a few large, young, and fresh French Beans, cut them across to form diamond- shapes (see Fig. 99), and boil them in salted water. When Fig 99. How to Cut French Beans into Diamonds for Garnishing. done, drain them on a sieve, and put them into a saute-pan with some butter for a few minutes. They are then ready for use. French Beans Plain-boiled.—(1) Cut the Beans into thin shreds, removing the ends. They should bo quite young, and fresh gathered. Throw them into boiling water with a piece of common soda the size of a small nut, and boil from ten to twenty minutes, according to the age of the Beans. They should be piled on a strainer, and served without sauce. They may also be boiled whole, when the flavour is decidedly better, none of the juice being lost by bleeding from the cut surfaces. Beans—continued. (2) The nice flavour of this vegetable depends on its freshness and the mode of cooking. It is better not to cut them, but simply to take off the tops and tails, pull away the thin stringy strip at each side of the Bean, and then wash them, but do not leave them in the water. Throw them into a saucepan of boiling water, salted with 1 table- spoonful of salt to each igall. of water, and boil quickly with the lid off until they are quite tender. Drain in a colander or sieve until all the water has run from them, then pile on a vegetable dish, and put several pieces of fresh butter over and about them. (3) Pick the Beans carefully over, wash, and throw them into fast-boiling salted water, and boil in an uncovered stewpan until tender. Drain, and put them again into a stew- pan with a large piece of butter and a squeeze of lemon-juice added. Toss about over the fire for a few minutes, and then serve. (4) Cut enough young Beans into long shreds (see Fig. 100) to fill a large dish. Have a stewpan with lgall. of water, into which you have put £lb. of salt. When boiling, put in the Beans, which must boil very fast until tender. When done, strain, put a layer of them upon the dish, with bits of butter all over them, and sprinkle with pepper and salt; then put on more Beans, and proceed as before, till you have formed a pyramid of them; then serve very hot. (5) Pick and wash lib. of French Beans, and put them into a gallon stewpan, with 3qts. of boiling water and 1 pinch of salt; boil till tender. Gouffe gives the following receipt for a sauce to serve them in : Put in a 2qt. stewpan loz. of butter and loz. of flour; stir over the fire for three minutes, and add 3 gills of water and 1 pinch of salt; boil for ten minutes; thicken with two yolks of eggs and |oz. of butter. Drain the Beans, put them in the sauce, with J table-spoonful of chopped parsley, mix, and serve. These Beans will retain their colour if boiled on a sharp fire, with plenty of water, in an uncovered stewpan, and a small quantity of salt only in the water. (G) Boil in plenty of salted water over a sharp fire, that they may retain their green colour. Cut some onions into slices, and fry them a fine brown colour; take 2 table- spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, and work into it 1 dessert- spoonful of fresh butter warmed. After draining the onions and Beans, pour them into the sauce, keep stirring, season them well with salt and a little pepper, and serve up hot all together. French Beans a l’Angdaise.—Blanch and cook the Beans as for Boiled French Beans, keep them warm and of a light green colour, place them on a hot dish, pour over them 1 gill of melted butter, sprinkle a little chopped parsley on top, and serve very hot. French Beans a la Bretonne.—Cut a medium-sized onion into dice-shaped pieces, and place these in a saucepan with ljoz. of butter; let it get a golden colour on the stove for five minutes, and add 1 table-spoonful of flour. Stir well, and moisten it with 1 pint of white broth. Stir well again, until it comes to a boil, and season with \ pinch each of salt and pepper; add the cooked Beans, with a clove of crushed garlic, to the sauce, cook for ten minutes, place on a hot dish, sprinkle 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley over it, and serve. French Beans with Cream. — (1) Prepare 3 breakfast- cupfuls or so of French Beans, put them into a saucepan of slightly-salted water, and boil until tender. In the mean- time put the yolks of three eggs into a basin, and beat them up with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream ; add 2oz. of warm butter, beat well, pour the mixture into a saucepan on the fire, and when it is very hot mix in 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls . of vinegar, together with the Beans ; after they have been