36 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Apples—continued. cover the whole over with a crust of the paste. Put the tart into the oven, bake it for about three-quarters-of-an- hour, then take it out, and with a sharp knife cut away all the inside of the crust, leaving merely the edge or border. Pour over the Apples a pint of boiled custard, grate over a little nutmeg, let the tart get quite cold, and serve. Apple Tartlets.—These require little moulds, which may be either the ordinary patty-pans, mince-pie tins, or tartlet- pans. The tartlet-pans are better than any, being deeper and more ornamental. (1) The pans are first buttered, and then lined with good tart-paste and trimmed off round the edges. The centre is then filled with stiff Apple Marmalade (or jam, as it is called by some). This may be made in several ways, as already described, or as an ordinary marmalade; but Soyer recommends the following for tartlets: “Take ten good cooking Apples, cut each one in halves, peel them neatly, and take out the cores. Put the juice of a lemon into your sugar-pan, into which throw the halves as you peel them. When they are all done, add £lb. of lump sugar, and a little thin lemon-peel cut into strips; stew them gently until tender, and leave them to get cold in their syrup. Put half an Apple into each tartlet, and fill up with the syrup, to which yon have added a little apricot marmalade ; turn out, and serve.” (2) Tbellised.—Tartlets are sometimes ornamented with what is called “ stringing ” paste—that is, a piece of paste, say as large as an Apple, worked up on the pastry-board, with a little water, until it becomes so stringy that you can pull it out thin enough to overlay the tart- lets like a lattice (see Fig. 36), or in other pretty design. Solder the strips to the edge of the rim, pinch off, and snip round to form a wreath. Egg the surface of the paste, and bake in a slack oven. Three minutes before the tartlets are cooked, take them out of the oven, sprinkle sugar over them, and put back to glaze. (3) Another good preparation of Apples for tartlets is given by Dubois. Cut up some Apples in quarters, and mince them transversely, so that the slices be not too broad. Put them into a kitchen basin, sprinkle over lemon-flavoured sugar, and a handful of currants. Let them macerate for an hour; then fill up the moulds with tartlet-paste, and pile the Apples in them. Cover the Apples with a round of the same paste, solder it to the edges of the mould, and bake in a slack oven for forty minutes. Sprinkle with sugar before serving. (4) This tartlet is quite a novelty amongst cooks. Make a good, flaky short-paste with 6oz. of butter or lard, 9oz. of finely-sifted flour, and £ breakfast-cupful of iced water. When rolled out sufficiently, cover patty-pans with the paste, trim, and bake separately. When cooked a light brown, mask the paste with Apple Marmalade, and fill up high with Apple Snow. Apple Tartlets with Cream.—Line the moulds with paste, as above, and fill with good stiff Apple Marmalade. Bake in a slack oven. When cool, spread apricot marmalade over the Apple, and over this lay whipped vanilla-flavoured cream. Smooth the cream over into a dome, and decorate round with crystallised cherries cut into halves, angelica, or other ornamentation. Apple Timbale.—This is a dish requiring much care and practical experience to make successfully. (1) Soyer tells us to line a plain round mould, previously buttered, with fine paste, but the paste is not to be thicker in any part than a shilling. Then the interior of the paste is to be lined with rice, previously boiled, and eight Apples, previously quartered and cooked with flavourings and syrup. Cover another sheet of paste over, and put in a hot oven until the paste is quite done. When three-parts cold, turn out upon your dish and mask over with apricot marmalade, decorating it with dried cherries and blanched pistachios. This may be served hot, but it is much better cold. (2) We have a very much more surprising dish, called by Dubois “ Timbale of Milan,” which appears to be more diffi- cult to make than it is. Pare, core, and quarter a dozen good Apples—continued. Apples, and put them into a stewpan, with half a stick of vanilla, a table-spoonful of butter, and 2 handfuls of sugar. Toss them over a brisk fire until they are tender without breaking. Then mix in 1 teacupful of sultana raisins and 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped citron-peel, and let stand till cool. Next take some short-paste—made with 12oz. of flour, 8oz. of butter, 4oz. of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, a little salt, and a little water. After standing a bit, this paste must be divided into a few pieces, which, after being rolled, must be cut into strips about £in. wide, or less. Have ready a buttered, dome-shaped mould, and into this lay the strips t of paste round and round, commencing at the bottom, and working in a spiral, taking care that each fresh ring shall sit fast on its predecessor. The ends of the strips must also be well soldered together by wetting with water. Having filled the mould, dip a paste-brush in warm butter, and thoroughly moisten the inside of the coil with it. Then fill in with Apples, and cover with a paste flat. Bake for about fifty minutes, and turn it out on to a dish, masking afterwards with apricot marmalade (see Fig. 37). Trim round with small preserved Apples, greengages, apricots, or any other orna- mental fruit. Half an Apple or apricot, topped with crystal- lised cherries, surmounting the Timbale, gives a very pretty effect. Apple Toddy.—An American colonel supplies the following: lgall. of Apple brandy or whisky, Ingalls, of hot water (well sweetened), a dozen large Apples (well roasted), two grated nutmegs, 1 gill of allspice, 1 gill of cloves, and a large pinch of mace. Season with £ pint of good rum. Let it stand for three or four days before using. Apple Trifle.—Peel and core a dozen or so of Apples, cut them up, put into a saucepan with a little water, to pre- vent them burning or sticking to the pan, and add the grated rind of a lemon and sufficient sugar to sweeten. Stew them gently until quite tender, then remove the pan from the fire. Beat to a pulp and put it at the bottom of a trifle-dish. Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin, and beat them well with 1 teacupful of cream and 3 teacupfuls of milk, sweetened to taste; put the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir well until the mixture is quite thick. Lot it get cold, pour it over the Apple pulp in the trifle- dish, put a heap of whipped cream over it, and serve. Apple Turnovers.—Another name for these would be “puffs”; but as there is some difference in the arrangement of the pastry, both styles are given, although under different names. Peel about a dozen Apples, cut them into quarters, and remove the cores. Put them into a stewpan, with a little butter, £lb. of powdered sugar, a little lemon-zest, and 1 gill of water. Put this upon the stove, and shake it well until about half done. Next, roll out some tart paste, and cut it round about the size of a large plate (the edge should be a little the thickest). Put the Apples in the centre, with some apricot jam over them. Boll out another piece of paste like the first, and cover over the other, having first wetted the edges. With the fingers twist the edges together, or notch them with the back of a knife. Put the turnover into an oven on a bright, greased baking-sheet, and when rather more than half done take it out and wash it over with whipped white of egg, using a Fig. 36. Apple Taetlet, Trellised.