103 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—con tinued. trimmings of the paste, wet the edge round the basin, and cover the top; dip a cloth in boiling water, and tie it over the pudding; put into boiling water, and boil for fully three hours. Let it cool a minute or so before turning out of the basin, or it will be liable to burst. Garnish the dish round with potato croquettes (Pig. 112). Fig. 112. Beep Pudding with Potato Croquettes Beef Puree Soup.—Take a piece of cold Beef, about 21b., and remove all the fat, skin, or gristle; mince, and then pound the meat in a large mortar with a piece of butter. Season well, and add to it three or four yolks of eggs; rub this all through a wire sieve. Chop an onion small, and fry it with butter, without allowing it to take colour; sprinkle 1 table-spoonful of flour over this, and fry for a few seconds longer; then dilute it with 2qts. of broth; stir the liquid till it boils, and then immediately move it to one side, to clarify, and skim it of all fat. Twenty minutes or so after this, strain the soup through a sieve into another stewpan, and thicken it with the meat puree. Warm up without boiling, and pop in at the finish 1 pinch of chopped parsley or fennel. Beef Raised-Pie.—Chop fine 4oz. of Beef-suet, put it into a saucepan with an equal quantity of butter, pour in 2 break- fast-cupfuls of water, and boil. Put 21b. of flour into a basin, make a hole in the centre, pour in the liquor from the saucepan through a sieve, and mix well with a spoon until the paste is quite cool. When it is smooth, turn it out on to a floured board, roll it out to about .jin. in thick- ness, and line a buttered raised-pie mould with it, pressing it firmjy against tho sides. Cut 21b. of lean Beef (Beef- steak is best) into small pieces or collops, dust them well with flour, sprinkle them over with finely-chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, put a layer of them at tho bottom of a mould, then a layer of thin slices of potatoes, and continue in this way until the mould is full. Put a flat of the paste over the mould, raising it in tho centre, make a hole in the middle, decorate with leaves of paste, putting one over to conceal the hole, brush the top over with egg, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for about three-hours-and-a- quarter. Take it out when done, pour in a little rich gravy through the hole in the top, turn it out of the mould, and serve at once. Beef Rissoles.—Mince a few slices of lean cold roasted Beef, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, season with finely- chopped sweet herbs and lemon-peel, and mix in about half the weight of the Beef in breadcrumbs. Make tho mixture into a thick paste with yolk of egg, shape it into balls, dip them into beaten egg and breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them for six or seven minutes. Take them out when brown, drain off tho fat, heap them on a dish, and serve with hot rich brown gravy poured round them; or they may be put on a napkin on a dish, and served plain. Beef Rissolettes.—Mince 21b. of fresh Beef very fine, remov- ing all skin and gristle; mix with the minced Beef about a fourth of its weight in breadcrumbs, add an onion boiled Beef—continued. tender, a few drops of essence of anchovy, pepper and salt and sufficient egg to make it all into a stiff paste. Boll into egg-shaped balls, dip each in egg, roll in bread- crumbs, and fry very gently. One egg, if well beaten, will suffice to mix tho rissolettes, and egg the outside of a dozen. Make a little gravy by boiling the trimmings of the meat in the water the onion was boiled in, and when the rissolettes are done, pour the fat from the frying-pan, let the gravy boil up in it, and thicken it with a small quantity of flour worked smooth in a little water. Stir in the juice of half a lemon, season with pepper and salt, place the rissolettes neatly round a heap of mashed potatoes (Big. 113) on the dish, and pour the gravy round, but not over them. Beef Rolls or Paupiettes. — (1) These can be made from almost any scraps of cold Beef, whether boiled, roasted, stewed, or braised, so long as the piece will cut into neat thin slices. Prepare a forcemeat of chopped parsley, fat bacon, sweet herbs, and a grating of lemon-peel; season with salt and peppier, and spread a small portion on each slice of meat; then roll up, tie round with thread in two places (Big. 114), dip into a thin batter, and throw into boiling fat. When nicely hot, remove, and serve with brown sauce. (2) Take some thin slices of cold Beef, and cut them into pieces 2Jin. by 4in. Chop up the trimmings and fat, and to every slice of meat allow 1 table-spoonful of it. Season with salt, pepper, and herbs, and add about a quarter as much bread- or cracker-crumbs as there is meat. Put this mixture on tho slices of meat, spreading it nearly to the edge; roll them up, and tie them with string; sprinkle over a little flour, salt, and pepper, put them into a frying-pan with a little dripping or salt-pork fat, and fry them brown. When they are done, pour the fat into a stewpan, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and put it on the fire to brown, and then add 1 pint of hot water; add a little more salt and pepper, pour it over the rolls of meat, previously put into a saucepan, and let them simmer on tho side of the fire until quite done and tender. Take them out, cut off the string, and put them on a dish. Add a littlo seasoning to the gravy, and pour it over. Beef Roulette. — Cut off a large thin slice from a round of Beef, or any tough part, beat it with a rolling-pin to break the fibre, and trim it into a rectangular shape. Dust