100 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Process«s, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. fine; make 1 pint of poulette sauce in a 2qt. stewpan, reduce it to £ pint, and thicken with the yolks of three eggs; put the chopped Beef in the sauce, add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 pinch of salt, and 2 small pinches of pepper; mix well together with a wooden spoon, and spread out on the dish to the thickness of ljin. Let it get firm and cold, then divide into sixteen equal parts. Strew a board with breadcrumbs about J^in. in thickness, put the sixteen parts of mince thereon, leaving a space of 2in. between each, cover them with a similar thickness of bread- crumbs, and roll each part into the shape of a cork, making them as near the same size as possible. Beat the three whites of the eggs for one minute, so as to mix but not froth them; add 1 small pinch of pepper, 2 pinches of salt, 1 table-spoonful of oil, and 1 table-spoonful of water. Dip the croquettes in this mixture, roll them in the breadcrumbs, and set them on a plate. Twenty minutes before serving, have some hot fat; arrange the croquettes in the frying- basket, and put them into the fat to fry; when they are nearly fried, move them gently with a slice to insure their colouring evenly. When they are of a light brown colour and crisp, they are done. Sprinkle them with salt, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Put l|lb. of minced, cooked, and well-seasoned Beef into a saucepan with an onion finely chopped and fried in butter, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of weak broth or water, and stir in 1 teaspoonful of gravy-browning and a small quantity of flour. Put the saucepan on the fire, boil for a few minutes, stir in quickly the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, turn the whole out on to a dish, and let it get cold. Fig. 109. Beef Croquettes. Form it into balls, cover these with breadcrumbs, dip them in yolk of egg beaten with a little salt, and breadcrumb them again, giving them a smooth appearance. Plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and lightly colour them; take them out, drain, arrange them in a heap on a napkin spread over a dish (Fig. 109), put sprigs of fried parsley round, and serve. This is a good dish for an entree. Beef a la Cuiller (a Cuiller is a large ladle).—To make this dish you require a small cold roasted or braised rump of Beef. Scoop this out above with a sharp knife, forming a sort of cup or cavity. Set it on a gratin-dish, trim away the fat and ragged portions of the meat, and cut these into thinly- sliced strips. Slice about twenty button mushrooms, put them into a shallow stewpan with butter, fry them over a brisk fire, and moisten with a little stock to which has been added a few table-spoonfuls of madeira and 2 table-spoonfuls of bottled tomato sauce. Boil this ragofit for a few minutes, and then add to it the slices of Beef. Warm these over a slow fire, and when hot pour them into the cavity made in the piece of Beef. Mask the top with a layer of sliced mushrooms, and sprinkle over the whole a few breadcrumbs, basting it with warm butter. Pour over the bottom of the dish a part of the gravy of the braised slices of meat, into which a glass of white wine has been stirred, and put the meat on it into a slow oven to warm up, basting from time to time with the gravy. When ready, serve it up on the same dish, with the remainder of the stock in a sauceboat. Beef—continued. Beef Cutlets.—Trim off all the skin and fat of some slices of Beef, and shape like cutlets, using the cutlet-bat to flatten them; then sprinkle salt and pepper over them. Put a small piece of butter in a saute-pan, and when it is melted, fry the cutlets on both sides till they are done. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the cutlets, dish them, and pour over them a thick brown gravy. Beef it la Daube.—(1) Lard well a round of Beef (Fig. 102, 5), and put it in a stewpan; cut it in slices nearly to the bone, and have a few slices of bacon placed around and over it, with carrots and onions; season with pepper, salt, and thyme. Cover the whole with water, and let it stew very slowly from four to six hours; then take out the round, and let it cool. To make the jelly, take all the meat from the stewpan, strain the broth through a sieve, skim the fat from the top very carefully, put it on the fire with a few grains of pepper, and let it simmer slowly. Beat the whites of four eggs in a cup of water, and stir them in, and let all remain on the fire simmering for fifteen or twenty minutes. Strain the jelly, and when cool garnish the meat with it. This dish should be prepared the day before it is wanted. (2) Take a Beef shin (Fig. 102, 15), and chop in several places to break the bone. Cook it till it falls to pieces in just enough water to prevent burning. Then, after taking out the bones, mix with 1 heaped teaspoonful of flour rubbed into 1 teaspoonful of butter, and season with a taste of red and black pepper, salt, and bruised celery-seed. Stew it long enough to cook the flour. Pour into a deep dish, cover with a plate, and put weights on it to press it. This is a very nice dish. Beef Doopiaja.—Cut twelve onions into slices, brown them in a frying-pan with 3oz. of fat, take them out when done, and chop them up. Add to the fat 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, i teaspoonful of ground ginger, and i teaspoonful of ground garlic, cooking them until brown. Add 21b. of Beef cut up into small pieces, sprinkle over 1£ teaspoonfuls of salt, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and simmer gently for an hour or so, until the meat is perfectly tender, and the liquor is considerably reduced in quantity. Turn the curried meat out on to a dish, chop up the onions and sprinkle them over, and serve at once. Beef £, la Franqaise.—Put two cow-heels and 4galls. of water into a stock-pot, set it on the fire at eight o’clock in the morning, and leave to boil slowly until the meat has dropped off the bones; then add half of a large onion, two large red pepper pods, and one sprig of parsley, all chopped fine. Remove the bones. Put into another pot 2galls. of water, in which place 101b. of nice pieces of Beef cut up small, half an onion, one red pepper, parsley (all chopped fine), and salt. When the meat has boiled to pieces, mix all together, and boil it for half-an-hour longer. Serve either hot, or cold as a jelly. Beef Cooked in German Style.—Boil in a stock-pot a small rump of Beef (Fig. 102, 2) from which the bone has been re- moved. When about three-parts done, drain, and trim it square; then place it in a stewpan in which thin bacon and sliced vegetables have been laid ; moisten to half its height with broth, gravy, and white wine. Let the stock boil, and remove the pan back to the side of the stove fire to simmer, putting hot embers on the lid. Let the meat finish cooking in this way. It should be glazed nicely. When ready to serve, remove and drain the piece of Beef, trim it, and set on a dish. Put Brussels sprouts on one side and glazed chestnuts on the other. Pour over the meat some of the stock in which it has been cooked, strained and freed of fat, having first added another glass of white wine. Serve up separately a dish of mashed potatoes and a sauce-tureen with veloute sauce in which 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovies has been dissolved. Beef Gobbets or Mouthfuls.—Cut intc\fclices about lib. of Beef, taken from any part but the leg, Amt it into a sauce- pan with sufficient water or weak stc»k to cover it, and cook for about one hour. Add a very small quantity of mace, a few whole peppers, and two or three cloves, all tied up in a bag; add also half a head of celery cut up small, two carrots and turnips in slices, a sprig of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt to taste, loz. of rice, and a large crust