221 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respectingr Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cabbages—continued. chop them fine. Next wash jib. of rice and mix it with the chopped meat and onion, season this with 1 teaspoonful of pepper and 1 teaspoonful of salt, then gently open the leaves of the Cabbage and insert this mixture between them, and bind the Cabbage with a long piece of narrow tape to keep the meat, &c., secure. Melt jib. of butter in a large saucepan, and let the Cabbage fry in it till it is quite brown. Take 1 pint of stock and 1 table-spoonful of flour, and blend the flour smooth in a little of the stock; when quite free from lumps, add the rest of the stock, pour it on to the browned Cabbage in the saucepan, and lot it stew slowly for three hours. When it is done, serve it in a vegetable-dish with the gravy poured round it for sauce, first removing the tape. Cabbage a la Mode may be made with cold roasted beef or cold mutton, but chicken is generally considered better. Cabbage with Rice.—Thoroughly wash 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rice, using plenty of water, put it into a saucepan with lj pints of water, and boil it gently until soft and dry. Trim off the outside leaves of a Cabbage, cut it in halves, wash it, then put it into a saucepan, with water to cover, a lump of salt and a piece of common soda about the size of a poa. Boil the Cabbage until cooked, then place it in a colander so that the water will drain out of it. Mash the rice and cabbage together, mix a lump of dripping with it, and season to taste with salt and pepper. When well mashed, turn the mixture on to a hot dish, piling it up dome shape, smooth it over with a knife, and serve it. This is a cheap substantial dish. Cabbage-and-Rice Balls.—Take out the inside leaves of a Cabbage, wash them well, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and parboil them. In the meantime, put lib. or 21b. of rice into a saucepan with two or three finely-chopped and fried onions, mix them well, pour over sufficient stock to moisten, and boil. When the rice is done, spread it over the Cabbage-leaves, roll them up, fastening them with string Fig. 245. Cabbage-and-Rice Balls. or tape, put them into a saucepan with a few chopped onions fried in butter, pour in a little water, and cook until the Cabbage-leaves are quite done. Put them on a dish, dredge them over with grated cheese (see Fig. 245), pour over tomato sauce, and serve. After the rice has been boiled it may be fried in stock or water to thicken slightly, and a little grated cheese and warmed butter may be mixed with it. Cabbage Salad.—(1) Cut with a very sharp knife a large Cabbage in quarters, and wash it well in cold water; take off all the outside or bad leaves and cut out the tough parts, boil, and when cold cut into slices. Boil twelve eggs hard, and chop ten of them very fine. Place these with the Cabbage. Make a dressing by mixing lj teaspoonfuls of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of mustard, 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, and j pint of vinegar. Place the Cabbage on a dish, pour over the dressing, and garnish with slices of the other two eggs and slices of pickled beets. (2) Wash and thoroughly clean the Cabbages, cut them up if too big, and boil very fast in a saucepan of salted water. Take them out, and drain. When cold, slice up, and serve with a mixture of oil and vinegar (in the proportion of three of oil to one of vinegar), with pepper and salt to taste. Pour the mixture over the salad. (3) Fob Winter.—Put into separate saucepans an equal Cabbages—continued. quantity of red and white Cabbage, with boiling water, and boil for five minutes; then throw them into separate bowls of cold water. Well drain the Cabbages, and cut the thin leaves into narrow strips, leaving out all the hard leaves. Arrange the Cabbages tastefully in a salad-bowl in tufts of red and white, and garnish to taste. For the dressing, rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs until quite smooth with a small quantity of vinegar; then mix in 1 teaspoonful of mustard, 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced shallot, a few tarragon-leaves also finely minced, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, one beaten egg, and j wineglassful of red wine; pour in 1 teacupful of salad-oil and sufficient white-wine vinegar to give the salad the desired acidity, but not to make it too sour. Well stir the mixture, season it to taste with salt and pepper, pour it over the Cabbage, and servo without delay. Cabbage Soup.—(1) Take a very fine Cabbage with a large white heart, wash, and trim off tho outer leaves; chop it into very fine shreds, put it into a stevvpan with lqt. of water, and boil until quite tender. Put the Cabbage and the water into lqt. of mutton broth, add salt and pepper to taste, and boil again. When ready for serving, stir in 1 tea- spoonful of fresh butter and two or three small lumps of sugar. The quantity of Cabbage used should bo sufficient to make the soup quite thick. (2) Wash and thoroughly clean a white Cabbage, chop it up very fine, put it in a stewpan with a little water and a small piece of butter, and let it simmer over a slow fire. WTien it begins to get tender, add about j pint of good broth and 1 gill of gravy of veal. Skim off the fat, and let the soup remain until it becomes a light brown colour; then cut some jin. slices of bread into small rounds, about ljin. in diameter, and throw them in. Remove the pan from the fire, and serve. (3) Wash and remove all the outer leaves of one or two summer Cabbages, and mince them up very fine; also a few carrots, turnips, and two or three leeks ; mix them all well together in a basin. Make a good broth from any kind of meat, such as lean beef, neck or shoulder of mutton, a knuckle of veal, &c.; boil it up very fast, and add the vegetables. Chop up into very small shreds two large onions, fry them in a little butter to a rich brown, add them to the soup, stir up well, and serve hot. (4) Cut two Cabbages into quarters, parboil them, and squeeze dry. Put them into a large pan, so that there may be plenty of room to insert a spoon between the pieces, and let them boil for about two hours, with as much gravy or stock as will cover them. Put -jib. of butter and a handful of flour into a saucepan, set it over the fire, and, keeping it stirred, add two minced onions and lqt. of veal gravy; boil it a little, pour it all over the Cabbage, and serve. Four pigeons, stuffed with veal forcemeat, and fried a light colour in a little butter, may be added to the soup, and cooked until they arc done. Take them out, arrange them on a dish, garnish with slices of fat bacon and a little fried or boiled chopped Cabbage, pour over the Cabbage soup, and serve. (5) German.—Well wash a white Cabbage, mince it as fine as possible, put it into a saucepan with a little butter, and let it cook or sweat on a moderate fire until tender. Add sufficient broth and veal gravy to cover, boil up again, skim off the fat, and continue to cook until the soup has a brown appearance. Throw in pieces of bread cut up to about the size of a penny, boil for a few minutes longer, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. Cabbage Soup with Bacon.—Cut and trim a piece of bacon weighing about 21b., put it in water and let it remain for an hour; then rinse it in tepid water. Put 5qts. or 6qts. of water in a stockpot, add the bacon, and let it boil for an hour. Cut two small white Cabbages into quarters, cut each quarter again transversely, and put them in the pot with two leeks, a large onion, a root of celery, two turnips, and two large carrots, all cut up into rather small pieces ; put in a few cloves and salt to taste, cover over the pot, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. Now add some raw potatoes in slices, boil again until all the vegetables are cooked, and then place them in a tureen in alternate layers, with slices of bread in between the layers. Pepper the Cabbage a little, put the bacon with a little of the Cabbage on a separate dish, and serve hot.