182 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. h'or details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Bread—continued. Graham-flour Bread.—(1) Mix together C breakfast-cupfuls of Graham-flour, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and | breakfast-cupful of yeast, and work to a dough, adding 1 pint of milk scalded and cooled, and making it a little softer than for white Bread. Let it rise till light, stir it down, pour it into well-greased pans, or if stiff enough shape it into loaves, let it rise again, and bake a little longer, and in a cooler oven than for white Bread. • Graham-flour rises' more rapidly than white flour, as it contains more gluten; it is conse- quently liable to sour if mixed overnight. To avoid this, use less yeast, and use sugar instead of molasses, or mix in the morning. Always sift the flour through a coarse sieve. When made with ordinary Graham-flour, bread is much lighter if one- third wlieat-flour is added. (2) Sift together 1 pint of wheat-flour, lqt. of Graham-flour, and 2 table-spoonfuls of salt; add to them 1 teacupful each of molasses and liquid yeast, or loz. of compressed yeast dissolved in 1 teacupful of warm water; then stir in enough warm water or milk to make a batter thick enough to hold a drop let fall from a spoon, and cover the bowl containing this sponge with a folded towel, keeping it in a moderately warm place until light and foaming. When the sponge is quite light, stir in as much more Graham-flour as can be readily mixed in with a spoon, and put the dough into well-buttered baking-pans; cover the pans with a folded towel, put them where the dough will be kept warm (in some place not too hot to rest the hand for a minute without burning it), and let them stand until the dough has risen to double its original bulk; then put the Bread into a moderate oven, and bake it for an-hour-and-a- half, taking care that it does not burn. Graham-flour and Cornflour Bread.—Sift together 1 pint each of cornflour and Graham-flour, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; mix with them 1 pint of sour milk and a bare £ pint of molasses in which 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of ammonia has been dissolved. When all these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, pour them into a buttered Brown-Bread tin (see Pig. 193, a) which can be tightly covered, and steam the Bread for two hours. The tin, or pail (see Pig. 194), closely covered, may be set in a covered saucepan containing enough boiling water to reach two-thirds up its sides, if a regular steamer is not available. After the Bread has been steamed for two hours, remove the cover from the pail, and bake the Bread in a hot oven until a crust is formed. It may be nsed either hot or cold. Henrietta Bread.—Put 1 pint of flour into a basin, add 1 table-spoonful of melted butter or lard, two eggs—the whites and yolks beaten separately—and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk. Make the whole into a paste, turn it into cups or moulds, and bake in a quick oven. Turn them out when done, and they are ready. Household Bread.—(1) Mix 101b. of best flour into about igall. of water. Care must bo taken not to make it too wet, some flours requiring more water than others. As soon as it is well mixed, add i pint of yeast, and knead it; then cover it over, and put in a warm place for an-hour-and-a- lialf to rise. Make into loaves, or rolls, &c., and bake. In making a loaf to weight, a little more dough must be used; for instance, a 31b. loaf requires 3|lb. of dough, and so on. (2) Mix 1 table-spoonful of salt in Clb. of flour. Dissolve 2oz. of German yeast in 3 pints of tepid water, strain this on to the flour, and knead the whole together. Put the dough to “prove” in a warm place, covered with a cloth, and let it swell to twice its original size; then turn it on to a floured board, and knead in it so much flour that it no longer sticks to the fingers. Divide into suitable loaves, and set to rise for twenty minutes near the fire; then bake an-hour-and-a-half to two hours. (3) Take a quartern of flour and make a hole in the centre, and mix into it 1 breakfast-cupful of milk or luke- warm water, 1 pinch of salt, and 1 teacupful of fresh yeast. Place this before the fire to rise, and let it remain all night; then knead it with ^ pint more water or milk for ten or fifteen minutes. Let the dough rise before the fire for an hour or an-hour-and-a-half, make it into loaves, and bake until done (an-hour-and-a-half or two hours). (4) Dissolve loz. of German compressed yeast in lqt. of warm water, and mix 31b. of flour with it; place the pan Bread—continued. in a warm corner, to remain four hours. Sprinkle in 1 tea- spoonful of salt, mix to a stiff dough, turn out of the pan, and knead smooth. Rub the pan with a little melted lard, to prevent sticking, put in the dough, brush it over, and let it rise for two hours. Then knead, make into loaves, prove, and bake. (5) Dissolve rather less than ^oz. of German yeast in a little cold water, stir into it f pint of lukewarm water, and pour this rapidly on to lib. of finely-sifted flour mixed with 1 pinch of salt, beating well all the time with a wooden spoon. Work in gradually another pound of flour, kneading it well, and use more water if required. Let the dough l-ise in a temperature of 80deg., and let it remain for one hour; then place it on a floured board, and shape it into a square loaf. Bake for about one hour in an oven very hot for the first ten minutes, but afterwards slackened. (0) Pour 1' pints of boiling water over 1 breakfast-cupful of Indian-meal, stir well, and leave it till cool. When blood- warm, mix with the meal half a cake of compressed yeast, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; add 2qts. of flour to the meal, and work it till well mixed. Sprinkle some flour on a table, turn the dough on to it, and knead with the hands for half-au-liour. Put the dough back in the basin, slightly warm a small lump of lard (about ^oz.), and rub it all over the dough. Cover the dough to preserve it from dust and air, and set it in a warm place to rise for nine or ten hours, or till the following morning; then divide it, shape it into loaves, and let these rise in a hot tempera- ture for one hour. Test the heat of the oven with a small quantity of flour in a saucer; if it browns in five minutes, put in the loaves, and bake them from forty minutes to an hour, according to their size. When cooked, take the loaves out of the tins, and lean them against a support on a table till cold. The Bread should be kept in an earthenware or stone bread-pan till served. Italian Bread. Place in a warmed pan lib. of butter and lib. of good moist sugar, and mix until it becomes light. Take twelve eggs, and add them two or three at a time, working the mixture well before more are added. Continue this mode of working until all the eggs are used ; then cut Jib. of candied peel into slices, and stir in 18oz. of flour. Butter some tins (long narrow ones are generally used), and place in them a layer of mixture and a layer of the peel alter- nately, filling the tin three-parts full, and bake in a slow oven. Iaaplaud Bread.-—Put lqt. of flour into a basin, and mix in lqt. of cream and the yolks of twelve beaten eggs, then adding the whites of the eggs also beaten. Pour the mix- ture into floured and greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven until done. This is considered an excellent and delicious Bread. Light Bread.—Sift 2qts. of flour on to a table or board, and divide it into three equal parts ; put one part into a jar or bowl, another into a basin, mixing in with this 1 tea- spoonful each of sugar and salt, -J- teacupful of yeast, one well-beaten egg, and 1 pint of water. When well mixed, pour this into the bowl over the other flour, cover over with the remaining portion of flour, and set the whole to rise for a couple of hours. Work it well, adding a small piece of lard, form it into loaves, and bake as for other Bread. Lunch Bread.— Sift 1 pint of flour into a basin, mix in 1 table- spoonful of warmed butter, 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, two eggs, and 1 breakfast-cupful of slightly-salted milk. Turn the preparation into a flat pan, bake in a quick oven, and serve very hot. Mateo Bread.—Boil to a light syrup lib. of sugar and 1 tea- cupful of water, and pour it while boiling over eight well- beaten eggs in a basin, working well and continuously until cold; then add lib. of matso-meal and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Turn the preparation into buttered or papered tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn out of the tins while hot, and serve either at once or when cold. Milk Bread.—(1) In 1| pints of lukewarm milk dissolve loz. of German yeast, and stir in lib. of flour. Set to rise into a