140 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Biscuits—continued. teacupful of caraway-seeds; stir thoroughly together in a large crock, and haying made a well in the flour, pour in the milk and butter, and stir round and round until it is all taken up by the flour. Knead well, adding more milk and water if required, to make a stiff dough. Place this upon the pastry table, and work for lialf-an-hour or more under the Biscuit-break (see Pig. 149). Boll out to -jin. thick- ness, stamp out with a large pastry-cutter, prick with docker, set on a greased baking-sheet, and put into a quick oven until baked a light brown. Bemove, and let them dry on a cloth before the fire, or in a screen. Half a teaspoonful of finely-powdered carbonate of ammonia, dissolved in a table- spoonful of water, added to the milk before mixing will make a lighter paste. (2) Bub lib. of best butter into 71b. of fine sifted flour, and stir in lib. of caster sugar and 2 table-spoonfuls of caraway- seeds ; mix into a stiff dough with lqt. of water in which 1 wineglassful of compound spirits of ammonia (sal volatile) has been poured, adding more water if required. Work this under the break (see Fig. 149) for kalf-an-hour or longer, roll, cut into Biscuits, and bake. Some cooks brush the top surface over with white of egg. Each Biscuit should contain about 2oz. of paste. (3) The following ingredients and proportions make good Abernethy Biscuits: six eggs beaten up with lqt. of milk, 8oz. of caster sugar, and foz. of caraway-seeds; add suffi- cient sifted flour to make a stiff dough. Weigh off into 2oz. pieces to make Biscuits, dock, and bake. (4) Bub 2oz. of butter into lib. of fine flour, add 2oz. of caster sugar, 1 dessert-spoonful of caraway-seeds, and 1 pinch of salt; make a well in the centre, and pour in sufficient milk and water to make a stiff dough. Break, shape out, dock, and bake. (5) Work l|lb. of butter and lard (in equal proportions) into 81b. of fine sifted flour, and mix in lib. of caster sugar and 2OZ. of caraway-seeds. Dissolve ^oz. of volatile salt (carbonate of ammonia) in lqt. of water, and with this, and what more water is required, make the whole into a strong dough. Break, shape, dock, and bake. (6) B. Wells gives the following as the mixture used for making these Biscuits in London bakeries: 71b. of flour, 8oz. of sugar, 8oz. of butter, four eggs, 1J- pints of milk, 21b. of orange-flower water, and foz. of caraway seeds. Note.—To turn out Abernethy, and some other Biscuits, with all honours, they should be rolled on a “crimper,” which is a piece of board scored in such a manner as to stamp a diamond Fig. 159. Biscuit-crimping Board. lattice pattern on the backs (see Fig. 159). For the domestic manufacture of Biscuits it is wise to cut out the size and shape with a round pastry-cutter after rolling, but experienced pastry- cooks flatten out each Biscuit by itself from a piece of the Fig. 160. Tonbridge Roller for Biscuits. (Wm. Smith and Co.) dough cut off to weight, which they first roll into a ball. To make Biscuits this way with anything like accuracy or sym- metry requires considerable practice. A “ Tonbridge Boiler,” as it is called (Fig. 160), is used for stamping certain kinds of Biscuits, and is not infrequently preferred to the “ crimper.” Its mode of operation differs very slightly from the ordinary rotating pin, the surface being cut to give the required pattern. Biscuits—continued. American Biscuits. — (1) Beat up in a mortar 2oz. of blanched bitter almonds, add the yolks of five eggs, and mix well in a basin; then work in by degrees 8oz. of caster sugar, and whisk well until the mixture is white and creamy. Noxt sprinkle in 2oz. of fine cornflour, and whisk together for ten minutes; then add the whites of five eggs, having previously whipped them well, and shake in little by little, whisking hard all the time, another 2oz. of cornflour, and continue to stir until the whole is thoroughly blended. Have ready, buttered lightly, some small flat fancy moulds; dust them with flour, fill with the paste, dredge caster sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven. When cold, remove them, and mount each with a small quantity of orange or lemon marmalade. (2) Mix together 6oz. of caster sugar and 21b. of finely- sifted flour, and rub in 6oz. of butter ; add 20 drops of essence of lemon, and make into a stiff dough with milk. Boll up in a cloth, and set in a warm place for an hour ; then put under the break, and work well. Cut into equal-sized pieces about as large as walnuts; roll these into balls, flatten, roll on a crimper, if you have one, dock with small docker, lay on a greased baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven. (3) Plain.—Bub Jib. of butter into 41b. of sifted flour, add 1 pinch of salt, and make into a stiff dough with milk and water. Break, shape small, dock, and bake in a quick oven. American Beaten, or Maryland, Biscuits.—(1) Bub into lqt. of flour a piece of lard the size of a fowl’s egg, and add 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mix into a stiff dough with milk, and break or beat thoroughly for half-an-hour or more. Boll this, stamp out with cutter, dock, and bake in a quick oven. (2) Bub lib. each of butter and lard into lqt. of flour, adding 1 teaspoonful of salt. Beat up one egg in a breakfast-cupful of skim milk, and mix all into a stiff dough. Break, or beat well with a rolling-pin ; roll out thin, shape, or cut into Biscuits, dock, and bake quickly. (3) Have ready lqt. of flour, 1 table-spoonful of lard, \ tea- spoonful of salt, 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water Bub the lard and salt into the flour, and mix with cold water to a very stiff dough. Knead ten minutes, or until well mixed; then beat hard with a Biscuit-break or heavy rolling-pin, turning the mass over and over until it begins to blister and looks light and puffy ; or “ until, pulling off a piece quickly, it will give a sharp snapping sound.” When in this condition pull off a small piece suddenly, form it into a round Biscuit, then pinch off a bit from the top. Turn over, and press with the thumb, leaving a hollow in the centre. Put the Biscuits some distance apart in the pan, prick with a fork or docker, and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. They should be light, even-grained, and crack at the edges like American crackers. Bath. Oliver Biscuits.—Pour lqt. of warmed milk into a basin, stir in ^lb. of sugar, 2oz. of German yeast, and a small quantity from 6|lb. of flour to form a sponge. Cover over with a cloth, and let it ferment for an-hour-and-a-half. Bub lib. of butter into the remainder of the flour, add the sponge, and form the whole into a smooth dough. Leave it for two hours, roll it out thin, cut it in rounds 3in. in diameter, dock them, put them on damped tins, brush over with milk, put them in a hot closet for half-an-hour, and bake in a slack oven. Biscuits for Beer.—These Biscuits are strongly recommended by connoisseurs for cheese, or to be eaten with a glass of beer. They are made by rubbing ^lb. of butter into lib. of flour, and then mixing up with it 1 dessert-spoonful of bicar- bonate of soda and the same quantity of salt, and making into a dough by working to and fro on the slab with the knuckles. When quite blended, light, and elastic, put it on to a floured plate, cover it over with a cloth, and set it aside in a cool place until the next day, when it will be lit for use. It must then be rolled out with the hands on the pasteboard into a long rope about l|in. thick, and cut with a dough-knife into pieces about lin. long. Drop these into a stewpan of boiling water on the fire, skim them off as they rise, and throw into a pan of cold water. Leave them in the cold water for two or three hours. Drain on a sieve or folded cloth, and then place in rows 2in. apart on a deep baking-sheet, and bake for twenty minutes in a sharp