145 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Biscuits—continued. oven to dry thoroughly. When sufficiently firm, place in a hot, sharp oven for a minute or two to colour a very pale brown. Penelope Biscuits.—Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, mix in lib. of sugar, and add 3 wineglassfuls of water. Put the mixture into a saucepan, and boil slowly until it begins to rope or a small quantity of it will cool on a plate; then pour it gradually over the white of an egg in a basin and beat well until the preparation is cool, next working in 2 table- spoonfuls of powdered cinnamon. Work 4oz. of butter into lib. of flour, and mix in the yolks of six eggs, lib. of sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of warmed lard. Form this into Biscuits, and bake them in a moderate oven; rover them with the icing mixture, and when cold they are ready for use. Peruvian Biscuits.—(1) Prepare a dough as for other Biscuits, using lib. of rice-flour, Jib. of arrowroot, lib. of butter, lib. of sugar, £oz. of voil, 4oz. of flour, and sufficient milk. Boll this out, and cut it into strips {in. in thickness ; cut these into pieces the size of marbles, roll them, and bake on greased tins in a moderate oven. (2) Mix together jib. of pastry flour, lib. of rice-flour, and jib. of Bermuda arrowroot; sift lightly, and rub into it lib. of butter until it has all crumbled up. Make into a dough with six eggs and milk, in which Joz. of finely-powdered carbonate of ammonia has been dissolved. Break thoroughly, and then roll into round strips the thickness of a finger ; cut and roll these into small marbles, and bake on a lightly- greased baking-sheet in a moderately quick oven. Petits Biscuits Ambrosiens. — Proceed the same as for Lady Fingers. After the paste has been placed in the bag1, have a well-cleaned pastry baking-sheet or plate buttered and lightly sprinkled with flour. Drop the paste carefully on to the sheet, forming Biscuits about 2in. long by lin. wide. There should be in all about forty Biscuits. Place them in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Be- move, lay them on a table, and with a hair brush spread over them 6oz. of apricot marmalade, and glaze them by brush- ing over with a paste-brush dipped in water flavoured with curaqoa. Sprinkle over them 4oz. of finely-chopped pistachios, shake the baking-sheet lightly, and they will adhere to the glazing. Set for two minutes in the oven to get dry, then remove, and when cool dross them neatly in a glass bowl to serve. Plain Biscuits.—(1) Bub loz. of butter into fib. of flour, and make into a dough, with a pinch of salt and sufficient lukewarm water. Break (see Figs. 149 and 150) and roll out thin, and stamp out with large round cutters ; put them on lightly-buttered baking-sheets, and bake for a few minutes in a quick oven. (2) Bub fib. of fresh butter into 21b. of flour, mix in 1 saltspoonful of salt, and work into a stiff dough with f pint of skim-milk or cold water. Knead this well, and break with Biscuit-break (see Fig. 149), or beat both sides with the rolling-pin (see Fig. 150). Boll out to fin. thick, and cut into pieces the size of a fowl’s egg; beat into round Biscuits, and dock with a docker (see Fig. 152) or prick with a two-pronged fork or skewer. Set these on a well-floured baking-sheet, and bake a light brown in a rather slow oven. Plum-shaped Biscuits.—Prepare a savoy Biscuit batter, and with a Biscuit-forcer lay them out in forms of halves of egg-plums on baking-sheets that have been slightly rubbed over with butter and then dusted over with flour. When all the batter is thus used, sift some caster sugar over the Biscuits and bake them till lightly browned in a quick oven. When the Biscuits are cooked, stick two of them together with some plum jam, coat the surfaces with plum jam, and glaze them with a transparent icing that has been slightly tinged with extract of spinach. Dry the icing on the cakes in a moderately heated screen. If the Biscuits are not eaten when finished, they should be kept in tins or jars, or they are likely to become sodden. Princess Biscuits.—Blanch and pound very fine in a mortar lib. of best Valentia almonds, adding the white of an egg whilst pounding to prevent oiling. Stir in l^lb. of caster sugar and two or three more whites of eggs, beating well together. Then work in by degrees lib. of finely-sifted Biscuits—continued. flour. Take out the pestle, add two more whites, and work them well with a spatula (commonly called a spaddle) until the whole of the whites are incorporated. If the paste appears to be smooth and light, it is ready; but if not soft enough, add one more white of egg, as it is not possible to ascertain the exact number of whites to use, something depending upon the size of the eggs and the nature of the flour. Lay it out by means of the Biscuit-bag (see Fig. 153) on wliite- of-egg wafer paper half the size used for macaroons, and put a dried cherry on the top for effect, or use a small square of citron-peel on some and a square of angelica on others. Dust them over with sugar, and bake them in a slow oven. Bheims Biscuits.—(1) Put fib. of caster sugar into a basin, then beat in, one at a time, four eggs, and continue the beating till quite frothy; whip the mixture over a slow fire for ten minutes, then take it off and whip it till cool. Mix ilb. of dried and sifted flour, 1 pinch of starch, 1 pinch of salt, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel with the beaten eggs, and when they are thoroughly incorporated add the well-whipped white of one egg. Melt some beef-suet in Fig. 166. Riieims Biscuit-tin and Biscuit. Bheims Biscuit-tins (see Fig. 166), turn them about to coat them well, drain out the superfluous fat, glaze them with starch, and fill them three-parts full with the batter, baking them in a quick oven. When cooked, put the Biscuits in a hot closet, and leave them for an hour or two ; then take them out of the tins. These Biscuits are generally served at dessert. (2) Put 15oz. of powdered loaf sugar into a round-bottomed copper basin, add the yolks of ten and the whites of twelve eggs, and 1 pinch of salt; set the basin over a slow fire, and whisk until the batter has considerably increased in bulk and appears of a yellowish-creamy colour. Bemove from the fire, and continue to whisk until quite cold; add 6oz. of sifted flour, and work well until incorporated. Have the required number of tins ready, buttered and dusted with caster sugar, fill them half-full with the mixture, dust them over with more sugar, and bake in a moderate oven to a fawn colour. Take them out, and use as required. As these are intended for wine Biscuits, they require no flavouring, which would interfere with the taste of the wine. Bheims Biscuits with Cream and Kirschenwasser.— Put some Bheims Biscuits into a deep dish, cover them with kirschenwasser, and let them soak. Put the yolks of six eggs into a stewpan with 9oz. of caster sugar, and beat them well; then add 1J pints of milk, and stir the mixture over the fire till on the point of boiling, flavouring it with essence of vanilla. When thick, pass the cream through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and leave it till cold. Cover the Biscuits with a cold cream, and serve them without delay. Boiled Biscuits.— (1) Put the yolks of fourteen eggs into a basin, mix in lib. of sugar, 1 pinch of salt, and a flavouring of vanilla, orange, or lemon, and work well for about twenty minutes, or until the mixture has the appearance of cream. Add the whites of the fourteen eggs beaten to a froth, stir lightly to incorporate, and sift in slowly 4|oz. each of flour and potato-flour. Take ilb. of this mixture (called savoy Biscuit batter), turn it into a baking-sheet lined with buttered paper^ and bake it; then turn it out with the paper uppermost, remove the paper, mask the surface with any kind of jam, roll it up, cutting one end slantwise, and put the roll upon the closed part to make the whole adhere. Let it get quite cold, cut it into slices about jin. thick, cover over with icing, and they are ready for use. (2) Prepare and bake the Biscuit batter as above, and at the same time have a baking-sheet covered with apple jelly of about the same thickness as the batter-mixture. Turn the jelly over on to the Biscuit mixture, roll it up, cut it T