161 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary'Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Boar—continued. it with 1 teacupful of vinegar and sufficient water, adding 1 teaspoonful of salt, a few cloves, three or four blades of mace, peppercorns, and coriander. Let it boil, then remove the pan to the side of the fire to simmer. When the head is done, drain it, divide it into two parts, lay them open upon a baking-sheet, and dust the insides with salt and pepper. Cut the tongue and ears into fillets, put some in each half of the head, and then roll up separately ; tie in two cloths, bind well with string, and let the half heads cool under pressure of a board with weights on it. When cooled, unwrap the galantines, and cut them into transverse slices, not too thick, arrange them upon a dish in a circular form, and garnish with aspic jelly. Serve with Sauce as fob Dressed Boar’s Head (No. 3). Galantine of "Wild Boar’s Head.—A Wild Boar’s head intended to be stuffed for galantine should belong to a young animal, says Dubois; those of old Wild Boars, requiring too much cooking, are not so well suited to the purpose. When the head is thoroughly cleaned and singed, the ears must be cut off, the head itself opened from underneath, which, as well as the ears, must be placed in an earthenware basin, then seasoned and surrounded with spices. A little Madeira wine is poured over it, and it is kept thus for several hours. Drain and dry the head, and then prepare a good forcemeat of chopped lean pork and bacon mixed up with a few well- cooked poultry livers; chop small, and pound in a mortar to a pulp, season with salt and pepper, and rub through a sieve. Have ready some raw truffles cut into pieces, a pickled tongue, and cold boiled bacon in equal proportions and to the extent of a third of the forcemeat. Fill the cavity of the head, as described in Nos. 2 and 3, with alternate layers, and sew up carefully, preserving the form of the head. Mask the neck with a large fat slice of raw pork cut to fit, then wrap the head up in a napkin, and sew it together lightly with thick thread. Remove the ears, plug the cavities with large carrots, wrap the ears separately in a cloth, and cook them with the head. To cook the head, place it in a largo stewpan, and pack it round with sliced vege- tables, aromatic herbs, and spices, moistened with broth and a bottle of white wine. Simmer very slowly for four or five hours, according to the age of the animal. When the head is done, leave it in the stock until half cold; then take it out and remove the cloth, wrap it up again tighter, then place it on a narrow baking-sheet, and set it up straight to cool. When set quite firm, take it out of the cloth and trim it neatly. Put the ears back in their places, and imitate the eyes either with jelly or with enamel ones; the snout is a little open and brought into shape with the aid of a little liver pounded and made into paste, or butter may be used instead, and all tho inequalities are to be smoothed over with butter, or with the liver preparation. The head is then rubbed with lard, coloured with very black caramel, and set on an ornamental rice socle, glued on a dish with stiff gelatine. Tho tusks may be natural, or imitated in fat; they are to be placed in a natural position on both sides of tho snout, and the head served up with such other decorations and garnishes of aspic and other things as may bo desired, or the decorative ingenuity of the cook may devise. Tartar sauce is recommended to bo used with this. Haunch of Boar a la Royale.—Put a larded haunch of Boar into a bowl, and soak it in white wine for five days. Take it out, tie it up securely in a cloth, put it into a braising-pan with 6 pints each of any white wino and water, and add a bouquet of parsley, a few chives, a little bay-salt, eight carrots and onions, three heads of cloves, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Simmer gently on the stove for about six hours, then remove it to a quick fire, and boil for an hour, by which time the haunch should be well cooked. Remove the pan from the fire, and let the haunch remain in the liquor for half-an-hour longer; take it out, remove the cloth, put it on a hot dish, strain over tho liquor, and let the meat get quite cold. Sprinkle it over with grated bread or breadcrumbs, and serve. Haunch of Young Wild Boar.—Take a quarter of young Wild Boar, remove tho rind, take out the thigh-bone, and saw off the thin end ; rub it with salt, put it into a pan, and pour over marinade to cover it. Let it soak in this for two or three days; then drain, wipe dry with a cloth, Boar— continued. put it into a deep baking-dish with a quantity of lard, cover it with a greased paper, and put it into a hot oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour, basting frequently with the fat in the dish ; then add 2 teacupfuls of the marinade, and cook half-an-hour longer, basting with tho stock. When done, remove from the oven, drain, and spread over a thick layer of bread-raspings, dried and pounded, mixed with a little caster sugar and finely-powdered cinnamon, and sufficiently moisten this with red wine to make it into a paste. Over this layer sprinkle dry bread-raspings. Put the haunch back into the baking-dish, and keep it at the entrance of tbe oven for twenty minutes, basting often with the fat; then take it up, put a paper frill on the end of the bone, and dish .Send up separately some orange sauce. Sauces for Boar’s Head.—See Sauces. Smoked Boar’s Head.—Get the largest pig’s head you can, place it on the face, open the neck, and remove the gullet, tongue, eyes, small bones, and brain, taking care to clean it out thoroughly, and wash well with salt and water; then wipe the head quite dry, and rub it over with salt, leaving it to drain for at least a day and night, and then put it into a pan with the following pickle : into lgall. of water put 21b. each of coarse brown sugar and bay-salt, jib. of prunella salt, 2 table-spoonfuls of juniper-berries, 1 table- spoonful of black pepper, 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallots, and two cloves of garlic chopped fine. Boil for twenty minutes, skim, and when cold pour it over the head and tongue. These should bo turned every other day for a month, but at the end of a fortnight the tongue should be removed. The head may be taken out at the same time, and tho pickle boiled up afresh with another pound of salt, the head being replaced in the pan as before, pouring on the pickle when cold. At the end of the time mentioned remove the head from the pickle, wipe it dry, and with tho point of a knife score the skin in lines 2in. apart from the nose to the base of the head. Trim off any superfluous fat from tho neck, and rub all over with dried fine oatmeal. Skin the tongue and place it in the mouth, fixing it with a wooden skewer; draw the cut edges together, and sew with twine; then wrap in brown paper, and hang in a smoke- house for three weeks. When required for use, put in a baking-tin, cover with buttered paper, and bake until quite tender in every part. When cold decorate with glaze, aspic jelly, or any other ornament, and place upon the table as a prime dish. Wild Boar Flesh Prepared in Italian Style.—Cut off from a young Wild Boar a piece of the saddle or the haunch; remove the skin, and put the meat into a crock ; cover it with cooked pickle (marinade), as given for either of tho Boar’s Heads, highly spiced and seasoned; leave it in this to macerate for two days; then take it out, drain it, and sponge it well, drying with a cloth ; put it into a stewpan with plenty of hog’s lard, and lot it fry on a moderate fire, giving a nice colour to all its surfaces; then sprinkle over 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Two minutes after, moisten the meat with the strained marinade, and let it boil on a moderate fire till the meat is three-parts cooked; then drain it, and place it in another stewpan, and let it keep warm whilst the sauce is prepared. Strain tho cooking-stock through a sieve, and carefully skim off all its fat. Now crumble up one or two mustacciuoli, or cakes of Naples gingerbread (or ordinary gingerbread will do), moisten with a little tepid water, and when softened crush them with a spoon. Dilute this paste with some of the stock in which the head has been cooked. Pour all together into the stewpan, stir till boiling, and then reduce it till slightly thickened. Pour this sauce through a sieve into the stew- pan containing the Wild Boar’s flesh, add to it a handful of roasted pignoli-kernels, and finish cooking the meat in this sauce over a very moderate fire, basting repeatedly with the sauce. Ten minutes previous to serving it, mix in the sauce a handful of currants, the same of chopped Smyrna raisins, well washed in tepid water, picked over, and dried in a cloth, and simmer freely till required for serving; then dish the piece of Wild Boar, surround it with the sauce, and garnish with vegetables in season. Wild Boar’s Ham.— Singe off tho bristles, wash the ham in hot water, and saw off the bone 2in. below the knuckle. U