THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 99 Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Beef—continued. 1 gill of broth, cover the meat with buttered, paper, and bake in a slack oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour, or for one hour at the most, according to its size. Baste it frequently with its own fat; and when done to satisfaction, drain it, place it on a dish, and pour over it some Chateaubriand sauce. Serve the vegetables separately. Baked Red Round of Beef.—Bub a round of Beef (Big. 102, 5) with a pickle composed of salt, saltpetre, and a small quantity each of pepper and allspice; put it into an earthenware bowl, and let it remain in this pickle for a fortnight or so, rubbing and turning it over every now and then. Take it out, rub it over well and vigorously with slices of onion, put it into a baking-pan with Beef-suet or dripping put over it, pour over 2 or 3 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine with a little ground mace in it, put the pan into a moderate oven, and bake until it is quite done, the time required depend- ing on the size of the piece of Beef and the temperature of the oven. Take it out when done, put it on a dish, pour the gravy over, and serve. Baked Ribs of Beef.—Break or saw off the ends of the bones of the required quantity of ribs of Beef (Big. 102, 10), take out the chine-bone, put the meat into a baking-pan, sprinkle it over with salt, put small lumps of butter all over it, dust it over with flour, and bake in a moderate oven until done ; the time allowed being fifteen minutes to each pound. When done, put it on a dish, garnish with horseradish, and serve very hot. Beef Bouilli.—Put a brisket or round of Beef, or any part of either of them, into a saucepan, together with any small pieces or trimmings of Beef, veal, lamb, or fowl giblets; sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, pour over sufficient water to cover them, and boil until nearly done. Then add one onion and two carrots cut in slices, a hunch of parsley, 1 teacupful each of browned flour and butter to thicken, cover over the saucepan, and cook for about twenty minutes longer. When the meat is done, take it out, and put it on a dish. Strain the liquor, add 1 wineglassful of mushroom ketchup or white wine to it, pour it over the meat, and serve. The time allowed for cooking is fifteen minutes to each pound of meat, giving an extra twenty minutes at the finish to cook the vegetables. The chine-bone, if cooked with the meat, will greatly improve the gravy. Beef Brasciolettes.—Short Beef-steak (Big. 108), freed from fat, is best for these. Bemove all skin and gristle, and, having minced it very finely, pound it in a mortar to a stiff paste with a little flour. Grate some breadcrumb, and season it with pepper, salt, spices, and chopped 'parsley. Cut some lean bacon into thin strips, spread out the meat-paste to the thick- ness of iin., and cut it into squares of from 2|in. to 4Jin. Put a slip of bacon on each, with a small piece of butter on it, and four or five pine-cone kernels (pignoli). Strew over a little of the prepared breadcrumb, and roll the bacon and kernels up on the table in the meat-paste; then roll these brasciolettes between the palms of the hands with plenty of breadcrumbs. When they are all ready and nicely shaped, lay them close on the bottom of a well-buttered baking-dish, strew more breadcrumbs over them, and put hero and there a little bit of butter. Bake in a quick oven, and in about fifteen minutes they will be done. Serve with tomato sauce. Beef Broth, with Vermicelli—Divide lib. of lean Beef into small square pieces, chop it, and put it in a stewpan, with an egg broken and poured over it; skim the fat off Beef—continued. 2qts. of cold bouillon, and pour over it; add a piece of leek, a piece of celery, and a little minced carrot; stir occasionally, and when it bubbles move it to one side, and simmer gently fifteen or twenty minutes. Drain it through a wet cloth (see Broths) with a good-sized bowl underneath, skim off all the fat, and let it boil five minutes, adding from 3oz. to 5oz. of blanched vermicelli. Serve in a tureen with toast. Beef Cakes.—Chop fine about lib. of under-done Beef, and mix it up with about 6oz. of boiled and mashed potatoes ; sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and add a few sprigs of finely-chopped parsley; bind the mixture with yolk of egg. Blour the hands, and form the mince into cakes about iin. thick and 3in. in diameter. Sprinkle these well with flour, put them into a frying-pan with hot lard or dripping, and fry to a brown. Take them out when done, drain, put them on a napkin on a dish, garnish with fried sprigs of parsley, and serve. Beef and Celery Bouillon/—Mince 31b. of lean Beef and three large heads of celery together with the roots, put them into a saucepan with 3qts. of cold water, set the pan on the side of the fire, and heat gradually. Boil for an hour, adding salt and pepper to taste, and pour the liquor through a cloth into another saucepan. Skim off every particle of fat, beat in the whites of four eggs, boil up once more, strain the liquor two or three times through a cloth, brown it with 1 table-spoonful of burnt sugar, and let it get cold. Mix in the whites of two more eggs, and the bouillon is ready for use. A third of a tumblerful of the preparation, filled up with boiling water poured from a height, so as to mix well, makes a good drink. Beef Collops.—(1) Take l^lb. of lean Beef and chop it fine, mixing with it 1 table-spoonful of fresh lard and 1 table- spoonful of butter, with enough water to cook it. Put into a stewpan, and when the Beef is done thicken the gravy with a little roux, and season with 1 table-spoonful of vinegar and pepper. (2) Mince lib. of fresh Beef (inferior parts will do) very fine, and put it into a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, a little flour, pepper, and salt. Put it over a slow fire, stirring and beating it so that it does not go into lumps, and let it cook for half-an-hour. Serve with fried bread, toast, or mashed potatoes. (3) Mince 21b. of lean Beef very finely, and put it into a saucepan with a bit of butter large enough to prevent the meat sticking to the pan. When hot, add 1 teaspoonful of flour and 1 teacupful of stock or water, stirring continuously to prevent them becoming lumpy. Allow twenty minutes to cook. Onions minced, or a little hot pickle, may be added. Beef Collops with. Piquante Sauce.—These collops are generally made to warm up cold roasted fillet. Mince very fine, and warm up in sufficient sauce piquante to cover the mince, without boiling. Should 'cold roasted meat be allowed to boil, it will harden, and lose its flavour. Beef Croquettes.—(1) The following cold Beef croquettes are described by J. Gouffe: Chop ljlb. of cold Beef very O & P 2