TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 12 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Almonds—continued. Roll this out very thin, and cut into bands about 2in. wide. Cut these bands slantingly crosswise into strips of about -jin. in width, split the ends of some of them (see Rig. 15), gather up five or six into a bundle, and fasten round the centre with another strip (see Fig. 16) ; twist the ends of the bands together lightly, lay each faggot upon paper, and bake in a moderate oven. Some pastrycooks believe that this sort of paste should be made up on one day, and kept in a cool place covered over with a cloth until the next day, before baking. The object of this delay is that the paste may dry before baking. They should be eaten quite freshly made, but cold. Almond Flavouring.—See Essence of Bitter Almonds. Almond Genoese Pastry.—Put 2oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat in jib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, and 2oz. of Almonds, blanched and pounded with a little orange-flower water; then add the whites of two eggs and the yolks of four, one at a time; and lastly, dredge in by degrees jib. of dried and sifted flour. Work the mixture well with a spoon until it is perfectly smooth, then add a little essence of vanilla to flavour. Put a border of rich puff paste round a dish, pour in the mixture, smooth it on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Take it out when done, and spread a layer of apricot jam on the top of it. Put the whites of two eggs into a basin with a little each of lemon-juice and icing sugar, work well with a spoon, adding slowly more of the sugar, until the mix- ture is quite thick and of the consistence of butter. Put this icing over the jam, smoothing over the surface, and set it in the oven again for a few minutes, for the icing to set; take it out, let it get quite cold, cut it into slices, and it is ready for use. Almond Hardbake.—This is made by dissolving, say, lib. of loaf sugar to a breakfast-cupful of water, and boiling to the “ crack ” (see Sugar-boiling). When the syrup has arrived at this degree (it can be tested by dropping a little on a cold marble slab or plate, when its brittle character will be your guide; or you may drop it into cold water for the same in- dication), add the juice of half a lemon and a full ounce of butter, and then pour it out on to a well-greased tin or slab. Have ready jib. of split Almonds, and set them in the syrup before it has time to cool, with their flat surfaces upwards. Sometimes the Almonds are mixed in with the syrup, when they are left unskinned, and the whole is cast in a slab about ljin. deep, and before cold cut into strips about 1 jin. broad. Almond Icing for Cakes.—Put 8oz. of blanched Sweet Almonds and loz. of Bitter ones into a mortar, pound them well, adding a little rose-water to prevent their oiling, add gradually 9oz. of finely crushed and sifted loaf sugar, and work the whole into a smooth paste ; if it be too dry, add a little white of egg. The cake intended to be iced should be first spread over with this paste and then with the sugar-icing when it is set and dry. It can also be made from Bitter Almonds—which have been infused in spirit to obtain the extract of Almonds—and no Sweet Almonds will then be required. See Icings. Almond Jumbles.—Put lib. of butter in a basin, warm it, and beat it to a cream, adding gently an equal quantity of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Work in lib. of flour and jib. of Almonds, blanched and pounded or cut up into very small pieces, and the strained juice of a lemon. Knead the mixture well, turn it out on to a floured board, roll it out very thin, and cut it with a tin biscuit-cutter into rounds. Put these on a baking-dish, and bake in a sharp oven until they are done. Take them out, and when cold they are ready for use. Almond Kosher Pudding.—Blanch and pound 4oz. of Sweet Almonds and three or four Bitter ones, adding a teaspoonful of water to prevent them oiling. Put them into a basin with jib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, mixing in 2 tablespoonfuls of rose-water and the well-beaten yolks of four eggs and whites of three. Beat this mixture well for about ten minutes, then pour it into a buttered mould or basin, put it in a quick oven, and bake for half-an-hour. Turn it out on to a dish, pour round a little lemon-flavoured syrup coloured with cochi- neal, and serve. Almond Meringues.—Put the whites of two eggs into a bowl, whisk them to a stiff froth, and add 4oz. of caster sugar; continue to whisk vigorously, and mix in 4oz. of Sweet Almonds, blanched and finely chopped. Drop the mix- Almonds—continued. ture on to pieces of thin paper, and put them to dry in the drying closet or slow oven with the door open. Take them out, carefully remove the paper from them, either by damp- ing it or easing the Meringues off with a knife, arrange them on a dish, and serve when quite cold and dry. Almond Milk.—When Almonds, either Bitter or Sweet, are pounded together, and water added, the liquor resulting is of a milky appearance, and is commonly known to confectioners as “ Almond Milk.” Pound 4oz. of Almonds with 1 pint of water; strain this over jib. of caster sugar, boil up once, and put into bottles for future use. This preparation will keep good for a week. Almond Oil.—An oil expressed from Sweet Almonds. Some- times used by cooks and confectioners as a lubricant. This must not be confounded with the Essential Oil of Bitter Almonds. Almond Paste.—Blanch jib. of Jordan Almonds the day before they are required for use, and allow them to remain in cold water. Soak 4oz. of very clean gum dragon in a jar with 1 gill of water, long enough to allow it to absorb all the water. Pound the Almonds to a pulp, adding a little lemon-juice so as to prevent them from “ oiling.” When they are like a smooth paste, rub them through a close hair sieve. Having done this, put the Almonds into a sugar-boiler with jib. of icing-sugar, and well stir the whole with a wooden spoon. This should be done briskly, so that the paste may not acquire colour. When it does not stick to the sides of the pan it may be taken off the fire. The gum must now be squeezed through strong cloth, and rubbed upon the slab and gradually worked into the paste along with another Jib. of sugar. This kind of paste is usually employed for making baskets, &c., which, when filled with strawberries and cream, or any other kind of fruit, make a pretty dish. See Marzipan. Almond Paste Candied.—Blanch and pound jib. of Jordan Almonds in a mortar, moistening with a little white of egg to prevent oiling. To this add a table-spoonful of kirschen- wasser or maraschino, jib. of caster sugar, and a little red colouring matter, such as extract of cochineal. Mix well together, and when cold divide into pieces of equal size, and shape with the fingers. Put these pieces on a sieve and dry in the hot-closet for at least four hours; then set them in a candy-tin. Pour over some syrup at 36deg. of strength (see Sugar-boiling), and let it flow to about lin. above the pieces. Cover with a sheet of paper, and set to candy in a drying hot-closet. About this time a crust will have formed over the syrup, which must be broken, and the syrup drained off, when the pieces of paste will be found candied. Set them on a wire drainer, and dry in the hot- closet. Almond Pudding'.—(1) Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, and warm it. Beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of five in a basin, and add gradually jib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, then the butter, then jib. of Sweet Almonds, blanched and pounded, and next jib. of sifted breadcrumbs. Turn the mixture into a well-buttered basin or mould, in layers alter- nately with apricot jam ; tie the mould over with a wet cloth, and boil the pudding in a saucepan of water for an hour-and- a-half. Turn it out on to a dish, pour sweet sauce round, and serve. (2) Put four pounded crackers into a basin and mix them up with lib. of Almonds, blanched and pounded with a little rose-water. Then add six eggs, lib. of sugar, 1 pint of cream or milk, jib. of warm butter, and 4 tablespoonfuls of wine. Line a pie-dish with rich puff paste, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Take it out, and serve. (3) Put lqt. all but a teacupful of milk into a saucepan with 1 pint of blanched and pounded Almonds, put the saucepan on the fire, and as soon as the milk boils add 1 tablespoonful of rice-flour mixed smooth in 1 teacupful of cold milk. Boil for six minutes, turn it out into a basin, and let it cool. When it is lukewarm add 1 teacupful of sugar beaten until quite light with an equal quantity of warmed butter, and when the mixture is perfectly cold, add the well- beaten yolks of six eggs, two dozen macaroons dried and rolled, and 1 pint of cream. Pour the mixture into a buttered baking-dish, bake it slowly for forty-five minutes, take it out and serve when cold.