THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Ill For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. Breslau of Beef.—Cut off the brown parts from £lb. of roasted Beef, cbop tbe meat up very fine, put it into a basin, and mix in 3oz. of sifted breadcrumbs, 2 table-spoonfuls eaeb of minced thyme and parsley, 3oz. of butter in small pieces, and 1 teaspoonful of grated rind of lemon; pour over 1 tea- cupful of rich gravy or cream a,nd three well-beaten eggs. When these are incorporated, sprinkle over cayenne, grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste. Put the mixture into buttered cups or tins, put these in a moderate oven, and bake for thirty minutes or so. Turn them out when done, arrange them on a dish, and serve with egg-balls for a garnish. A boatful of gravy or Spanish sauce should also accompany it. Fig. 126. First Cut of Sirloin of Beef. Brisket of Beef d la Royale.—Remove the bones from a brisket of Beef (Fig. 102,13), make small holes all over it, keep- ing them about lin. apart; fill these alternately with oysters, parsley, and fat bacon (all finely chopped). Sprinkle the Beef with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, put it into a baking- pan, and pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling claret. Dredge the meat well with flour, put it in the oven, and bake it for three hours or so. When done, put it on a dish, skim and strain the gravy, pour it over, and serve with a garnish of pickled onions. Broiled Beef Bones.—For this any Beef bones may be used. Cut them up into convenient-sized pieces, rub them well with a mixture of mustard, salt, and pepper, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them. They will bo quite done in about ten minutes, and should be served with fried potatoes as a garnish. Broiled Beef Cakes.—Chop some lean, raw Beef quite fine, and season with salt, pepper, and a little chopped onion. Press and pat it into small flat cakes, and broil on a well-greased gridiron, or in a hot frying-pan. Serve very hot with butter or maitre-d’hotel sauce. The flank end of the sirloin is very suitable for this purpose. Fig. 127. Beef-steak Grill for Kitchener Stove. (Wilson’s Design.) Broiled Beef-steak.-—Beat a steak till tender, and place it on a gridiron over a clear fire, turning frequently. Have ready a hot dish, place the steak on it, pepper and salt well, then spread freely with 1 large table-spoonful of fresh butter, turning and pressing it so as to absorb the butter ; pepper again, and set the dish over boiling water until wanted. When served it will be found both tender and juicy, if not cooked too long. One Beef—continued. table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar gives to this the taste of venison ; and to this may be added 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, for those who like highly-seasoned dishes. Broiled Double Porterhouse-steak. - Porterhouse-steaks are usually cut from the middle or best part of the loin, commencing lin. or 2in. from where the fillet begins, and going as far back as the round bone at the point of the hip. They are cut or sawn right through, including bone, loin, and underloin, and should be lin. thick and weigh from 11-lb. to 21b., according to the size of the joint from which they are cut. Select a porterhouse-steak of 31b., or thereabouts, cut thick. Broil over a rather slow fire—charcoal if possible —for ten minutes on each side, and serve with a garnish of watercress. Broiled Fillet of Beef.—(1) Cut some slices from the fillet, wipe them dry, and dust with pepper and salt. Grease the gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning every ten counts, for three or five minutes. Spread with maitre-d’hotel butter, and serve with spinach and chip potatoes. (2) Cut off a slice or steak about lin. in thickness and £lb. in weight from a fillet of Beef, cut it round the edge to prevent it curling while cooking, and flatten it with a cutlet-bat or cleaver until it is only about Jin. in thick- ness. Brush it over with warmed butter, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil for about five minutes, or until it is done. Dredge over salt and pepper, put it on a dish, pour over 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of hot butter, and serve with a garnish of sprigs of parsley and half-slices of lemon. (3) Cut a fillet-steak into slices, broil them, lay them on a dish on the top of a gill of hot bearnaise sauce, place on each slice one artichoke bottom filled with hot minced vege- tables, pour just a little meat glaze over all, and serve. (4) Broil three slices of fillet-steak, place them on a warm dish, and have ready prepared the following garnishing: Put into a saucepan 1 pint of Madeira sauce; add to it two truffles cut into square pieces, four mushrooms, an artichoke bottom, and a small blanched sweetbread (either from the throat or heart), all well minced together, and cook for ten minutes; then pour this over the hot serving-dish. Dress the slices of meat upon it, and serve. (5) Broil three or four slices of fillet, put them on a hot dish with i pint of mushroom sauce, lay six poached eggs on top, and serve. (6) Broil three or four slices of fillet, pour J- pint of bearnaise sauce over them, and garnish with two or three slices of truffles on each; also place on each a little meat glaze, and serve. (7) Procure 2|lb. of fillet of Beef, pare it, cut it into three equal parts, and flatten each a little. Place these on a dish, season them with a dust of salt and pepper, baste them with 1 teaspoonful of sweet oil, roll them well in it, put them on the broiler over a moderate fire, and let them cook for five minutes on each side. Then place them on a hot dish, and use any kind of sauce or garnishing that may be desired. (8) Take 2|lb. of fillet of Beef, and treat it exactly as in No. 7. While the fillets are cooking, chop one small shallot very fine, put it in a saucepan on the hot range with 1 tea- spoonful of butter, and fry for a minute or so, adding 5 wine- glassful of marsala, or other light wine, and reducing to one- half. Add a medium-sized pickled pepper and a sweet pepper cut into small pieces, season with salt and a little cayenne, add 4 teacupful of Spanish sauce, and cook briskly for a minuto or two; then pour the sauce on a hot dish, arrange the fillets over it, garnish the dish with fried bread sippets, and serve. Broiled Loin-steaks.— Select two loin-steaks of lib. each, season them with salt and pepper, baste on both sides with i table-spoonful of oil, put them on a broiler over a bright charcoal fire, and broil them for six minutes on each side. Fig. 128. Larded Slice of Fili.et of Beef.