126 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. (3) Beef may be salted in twenty-four hours, or in a night and morning, thus: Take a large shallow dish, fill it with water, and lay over it three or four crossed sticks. On these place the piece of Beef, the upper and under surfaces of which should be flat. On the Beef, pile as much salt as it will carry. The vapour from the water, caught by the salt, will form a concentrated brine, which, trickling down, will rapidly penetrate the meat. If during the time allowed yon can turn the meat, applying the salt to the other side also, it will still further hasten the process. To Boil Salted Beef it must be set on in cold water, that is if it is to be tender and to swell in the boiling. Fresh- salted Beef may be rinsed, or only wiped; long-salted Beef requires steeping in fresh water, tho time varying with its condition. Savoury Beef-steak.—Cut a piece of Beef-steak of even thickness. Mix together breadcrumbs, powdered sweet herbs, and finely-chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste, and spread this rather thickly over the steak. Boll up the steak with the seasoning inside, tie with a string, and bake in a quick oven. A brown gravy and mashed potatoes should be served with this. Savoury Minced Beef Collops.—Warm 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and brown it, adding- salt and pepper to taste and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped sweet herbs. Brown this also, and stir in ljlb. of minced Beef, cutting it from the rump for preference ; pour over a little less than 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and cook gently for ten minutes or so. Stir in 1 table-spoonful of lemon- juice or mushroom ketchup to givo an acid flavour, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve at once. Scalloped Beef.—Molt together 2oz. of Parmesan cheese and 2oz. of butter; mince (in a machine, if at hand) .Jib. of tender and underdone cold roasted Beef, and mix up thoroughly with the cheese and butter, seasoning it with pepper and salt. Pack this in tin or plated scallop-shells, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, and then grate Parmesan cheese over that, with little bits of butter put here and there. Bake either in the oven or beforo the fire. Servo very hot, and browned over with a salamander. Skin of Beef Soup.—Put 101b. of shin of Beef (Fig. 102, 15) into a saucepan, with lgall. of cold water. When it boils, remove the scum, and add one good-sized carrot, one onion, six cloves, eighteen whole peppers, a bouquet garni, and 1 table-spoonful of salt. Let this boil over a moderate firo for four hours. Put in a saucepan 2oz. of butter, 4 table- spoonfuls of flour, mixed well together, and place it also on a moderate fire, stirring it once in a while until it has taken a light brown colour. When the broth has boiled for some hours, strain either through a napkin or a sieve into a vessel, and let it cool for five minutes ; then gradually add it to the flour, stirring continually; place it on the fire, and when it boils skim it once more, and let it simmer for ten minutes longer. Cut a piece of the meat into small dice- shapes Jin. square, add them to the soup, and let all boil ten minutes longer; squeeze in tho juice of one medium-sized lemon, add 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and serve in a hot tureen. Skort Fillets of Beef, Marinaded, Sautes, and Served with. Russian Sauce.—Trim nicely and lard six tail ends of fillet of Beef (weighing each Jib.), and steep them in cooked marinade for twelve hours; then drain, and cook them for three or four minutes on each side in a saute-pan with a pat of clarified butter. Serve with 1 pint of Bussian sauce poured on the dish, and the fillets on top. Smoked Beef.—To a piece of Beef weighing about 121b. or 141b. rub in the following mixture: 1 pint of salt, 1 break- fast-cupful of brown sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses, and J teaspoonful of pounded saltpetre. Bub,this well over the Beef, let it lie in it, and turn it several times. At the end of ten days, drain it, rub bran over it, and hang it up in a smoke-house to be smoked for several days. See Cubing. Smoked Beef d la Crdme.-—Take lib. of very finely-minced smoked Beef, put it in a stewpan with Joz. of butter, cook for two minutes, and moisten slightly with J breakfast-cupful of cream, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce. Serve as soon as it boils. Beef—continued. Smoked Beef Omelet.—Warm 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced smoked Beef in a frying-pan with Joz. of butter, add twelve beaten eggs, and make this into an omelet, as described under Omelets. Smoked Hamburg Beef. — This is a favourite meat in Germany, and cannot be imitated elsewhere. It is excellent when recently smoked. The rump, the loin, the ribs, and the brisket, are the usual joints, and are first salted; the first of these pieces is usually boned beforehand, rolled up, and trussed ; but the brisket is smoked with its bones. The best way to cook this Beef is to take a piece and soak it in cold water for five or six hours, and plain boil it. When ready to serve, dish it up, drain it, and pour over a littlo thickened brown gravy, sending up with it a dish of spinach, mashed with butter, salt, and lemon-juice. Smothered or Pot-Roasted Beef.—Take 41b. to 61b. of the middle or face of the rump, the flank, or the round. Wipe it with a clean, wet cloth, and sear all over by placing in a hot frying-pan and turning until all the surface is browned. Put it in a kettle with J pint of water, and place it where it will keep just below the boiling-point. Do not let the water boil entirely away, but continue to add just enough now and again to keep the meat from burning. Have the cover fitting closely to keep in the steam. Cook until very tender, but do not let it break. Serve hot or cold. The meat when cold is delicious, cut in Jin. slices, and tossed in hot butter. Spiced Beef. — There are but fow more economical or useful viands than a good lump of cold spiced Beef. Whether for luncheon, supper, breakfast, or light dinner, it serves admirably, and not only satisfies the most vigorous appetite, but gratifies the most capricious palate. There are several receipts given for its preparation, some of which may be superior to others, but in all the principle is the same. (1) Bemove the bones from a piece of thin flank, and put it to soak for ten days in a covered crock containing the following pickle: Boil for twenty minutes in 2galls. of water, 51b. of salt, 21b. of coarse sugar, 4oz. of saltpetre, together with 2oz. of black pepper and 3oz. of mixed spice slightly bruised in a mortar, and tied in a muslin bag. A few bay-leaves are also recommended when available. Skim off the scum as it rises, and when finished let it stand until cold. To boil the meat, put it into cold water to cover it, with 1 wineglassful of vinegar and a few vegetables. If the thin flank, it should be first rolled, with chopped parsley, sweet herbs, and allspice. Let it come very slowly to the boiling- point, and then simmer it very slowly, and leave it in the stock to get cold, lest it may eat dry. If it is hard, it has been cooked too fast. The addition of vinegar to the stock makes tho flesh tender. (2) To a round of Beef that weighs 251b., take the follow- ing : 3oz. of saltpetre, loz. of cloves, loz. of nutmeg, loz. of allspice, and 1 pint of salt. Let tho round of Beef hang in a cool, dry place twenty-four hours. Take out the bone, and fill tho space with suet and spices mixed. Bub the above ingredients all over the round, put it in a wooden box or tub, turn it over occasionally, and rub a small quantity of salt over it. Let it remain three weeks, turn- ing and rubbing occasionally. Then make a stiff paste of flour and water, cover the round with it, and set in the oven Bake slowly for three hours. Bemove the paste when cold, trim neatly the rough outside, and slice horizontally. Serve only when cold. (3) Take 81b. or 101b. of tho thin flank, remove any gristle, skin, or bones; rub it over with Joz. of saltpetre and Joz. of bay-salt; then rub it well in with a mixture of spices, the following proportions being used; loz. of black pepper, loz. of allspice, Joz. of ground ginger, joz. of cloves, and Joz. of mace. Use only as much as will suffice to rub the Beef all over ; then add 3oz. of common salt, and Jib. of coarse sugar. Let the Beef remain a fortnight in this pickle, turn- ing it and rubbing it every day ; then take it out, cover it with the spices and chopped sweet herbs, roll it very tight, tie with tape, put it into a pan with J pint of water and Jib. of suet, cover it, and bake it for six hours. Take it out of the pan and put a heavy weight upon it to keep it flat, and when cold take off the tape. (4) Take Jib. of common salt, loz. of saltpetre (pounded),