25 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinarii Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. APP.LES (Fr. Pommes; Ger. Apfel or Aepfel; Ital. Mele).—The Apple has justly gained for itself the title of “ cook’s friend,” at any rate amongst fruits; for it is in season, so to speak, from one year’s end to the other, and the uses to which it is applied for the table are so numerous that it would be impossible to describe them all in one volume. Its sweet-acid flesh renders it par- ticularly delicious in sweet foods, but when used as a sauce for meats its piquant flavour is, in the opinion of epicures, unequalled by that of any other fruit. Apples may bo classed as (1) Dessert; (2) “ Kitchen,” or Cooking; (3) those suitable for both cooking and dessert; (4) the common Cider or Crab Apple, with which we have no present business. Dessert Apples take first place for quality, and are characterised by a firm, juicy pulp, piquant flavour, regular form, and handsome colour. The principal of these are to be found amongst the Pippins, Pearmains, Nonpareils, and Russets. “ Kitchen ” or Cooking Apples are characterised by their property of “ falling ” into a pulpy mass of equal consistency when subjected to heat, and in a degree by their large size and keeping qualities. Some Apples will “fall” in cooking when green, such as the Codlins; and others will only do so when ripe, as the Russets. Others, again, are equally good for dessert or cooking, and amongst these are some of the Pippins. In Nicholson’s “ Illustrated Dictionary of Gardening ” * we find the following enumeration of Apples. We have extracted from that work some remarks upon their appear- ance and quality, and the periods during which they are in season. For Dessert.—Adams’ Pearmain, very handsome, juicy and sugary; December to March. Ashmead’s Kernel, or Cockle Pippin, very rich and sugary; November to January. Boston Russet (American), very sugary and rich; similar to Ribston Pippin; January to May. Calville Blanche,first class; October Fig. 27. Dessert Apple, Calville Blanche. to December; see Pig. 27. Claygate Pearmain, rich, aromatic, excellent, like Ribston Pippin ; January to May. Coe’s Golden Drop, small, with a crisp and juicy flavour; November to January. Cornish Aromatic, rich, juicy, and aromatic; October to December. Cornish Gillyflower, very rich, quite aromatic; October to January. Court of Wick, very hand- some, flavour like Golden Pippin; December to March. Cox’s Orange Pippin, rich aromatic flavour, very handsome, and one of the best grown; October to December. Devonshire Quar- renden, excellent quality and handsome; July to September. Duke of Devonshire, flavour crisp, juicy, rich and sugary; December to March. Golden Pippin, small, very excellent flavour; November to January. Golden Reinette, small, yellowish-red, streaked with red, flavour excellent, sweet, and rich; one of the best and most useful of Dessert Apples; October to December. Irish Peach (sometimes known as Early Crofton), yellowish-green, juicy, and excellent; July and August. Iveddlestone Pippin, small, yellow or golden, specked with russet, delicious, highly aromatic; December to March. Kerry Pippin, flesh firm, yellow and red, sugary and rich ; Sep- tember and October. King of the Pippins, yellow and red, juicy and rich; October to January. Lodgemore Nonpareil, rich, sugary, and aromatic; January to May. Mr. Gladstone, large and * “The Illustrated Dictionary of Gardening.” Edited by George Nicholson, A.L.S. 4 vols. London; L. Upcott Gill. Apples—continued. handsome, scarlet cheek, striped and shaded, quality excellent; July and August. Northern Spy, large, tender, and highly aromatic; December to May. Old Nonpareil,tender and juicy; November to January. Pitmaston Pineapple, small, flavour very rich; July to September. Red Astrachan, good size, bright, flavour delicate and rich; August and September. Red Ingestrie, bright red next the sun, and yellow ground, flesh pale yellow, flavour brisk and sparkling; August and September. Red Juneating (or Margaret), very good; July and August. Red Quarrenden, bright scarlet, crisp and sweet; August. Reinette du Canada, large, greenish-yellow and brown, juicy. Fig. 28. Dessert Apple, Reinette du Canada. brisk, and sub-acid; November to May; see Pig. 28. Reinette Grise, flesh yellowish-white, sugary, pleasant, and sub-acid; Fig. 29. Dessert Apple, Reinette Grise. November to April; see Fig. 29. Ribstone Pippin, greenish- yellow and red, rich and aromatic; October to December. Sam Young (Irish), small, yellowish, with russet spots, delicious, tender, and juicy; October to December. Scarlet Crofton, yellow and red, crisp, juicy, and sweet; October to December. Scarlet Nonpareil, well coloured and large, crisp and juicy; January to March. Stamford Pippin, large, brisk flavour and agreeable aroma; November to January. Sturmer Pippin, brisk and rich; February to June. Syke House Russet, small and rich; January to May. Van Mons. Reinette, small, rich, aromatic flavour; November to January. White Juneating, small, good quality, but bad keeper ; July and August. White Nonpareil, delicious; March to June. For Cooking'.—Alexander, large, showy, and good; September to December. Alfriston, fine, large, white flesh; November to April. Bedfordshire Foundling, large, and very useful; Feb- ruary to May. Bess Pool, large and good; December to May. Betty Geeson, large; February to May. Blenheim Pippin, one of the best; November to February. Cellini, perfect; October to January. Cox’s Pomona, large; October. D. T. Fish, large, roundish, of a clear straw-colour, with small specks of russet, slightly flushed with crimson on the side where the sun strikes it, sub-acid; November to January. Duchess of Oldenburgh (Russian), large, red-striped; August to October. Dumelow’s Seedling (or Wellington, or Normanton Wonder), firm and large, and acid ; November to March. French Crab, large, pale green, firm, acid, and the longest keeper. Gravenstein, large, handsome, sweet and crisp; November to January. Greenup’s Pippin, large, February to May. Jolly Beggar, large, pale yellow, tender and juicy; November to January. Keswick