133 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ,be., referred to, see under their special heads. BERGAMOT.-—From the rind of the Bergamot orange, a fruit of the citrus (citron) genus, a very fragrant essential oil is obtained which is occasionally used in high-class confectionery, but more commonly in the preparation of toilet perfumes. The name is also given to a very choice variety of pear, shaped like an apple, and very juicy. Bergamot Water Ice.—Put into a basin the strained juice of seven lemons and the zest of three rubbed off on loaf sugar, mix in 3 teacupfuls of plain syrup and a little water, add a few drops of Essence of Bergamot to flavour, and 1 wine- glassful of brandy. Stir well, pour the mixture into the freezer, and freeze as desired. BERGARMO.—The name of a very good wine pro- duced in Lombardy. See Italian Wines. BER1IIGOT. — The French name for a sort of American caramel ; a kind of barley-sugar. BERLIN SAUCES.—See Sauces. BERZILLE.—This is the name of a thin French soup (maigre) in which bread is broken up (bresille). It is made with roux, milk, and bread and water. BESIS.—A sort of stew manufactured by the French with the inferior parts of beef, with which is mixed pearl barley softened in water, oil, and the juice of oranges and lemons. See Bezin. BEVERAGES.—Be it observed that man is by nature a thirsty creature; but there is no physical reason why he should drink more in proportion to his size than other animals. The tissue of which his body is composed is not more fluid than other flesh, all of which is made up of one-third solid matter and two-thirds of fluid. Man, like other animals, eats and drinks to replace tissue wasted by energy and action. This food, therefore, should consist of at least two-thirds of fluid, which may be plain water; but, by a provision of man’s own ingenious construction, so many tasty liquors have been invented by himself to tempt his wavering thirst, that cases are not unknown in which his daily food abounds in the liquid form. In other words, man is apt to drink more than his bodily waste requires for its restoration. Nature has averaged the required amount at about pints in every twenty-four hours for each full-grown individual, and this of plain water; but as the average man is not famous for his consumption of plain water, the probabilities are that he absorbs his 5| pints in a state of combination with something else. For instance, the food he eats contains a large proportion of water—perhaps, as in the case of soups, more in pro- portion than is required for the reconstitution of his wasted flesh; and, on the other hand, much of the liquor he drinks contains solid food, such as beers, wines, spirits, tea, coffee, chocolate, milk, or saccharinated aerated waters. And here we arrive at a point where the teetotalers stand in formidable array, prepared, like valiant knights, to give battle upon the least provocation, and fight loyally against all disputants for the sovereignty of the cause they have espoused. But as this cause, whichever way it may be decided in the dim future, has but little to do with the simple facts of which we are treating, like a knight-errant—more errant than disputative—we turn aside from that which does not concern us here, and take up the subject at another point, where no argument can possibly arise. Foods taken in a liquid form are universally admitted to be more readily digested than solids; hence, com- mencing with spring water, which contains the minutest proportion of nutrient material, and passing rapidly on to the list of tea, coffee, cocoa, milk, broth, beef-tea, and soups, to turtle soup, which latter is so largely composed of liquid gelatine as to be almost a solid in disguise, we have an assortment of liquid foods which should be ample for the purpose of supplying the daily Beverages—continued. 5h pints of water required. But man has a taste for luxuries, which the beast of the field has not; moreover, he has a mind more capable of receiving and appreciating nervous gratification. The beast of the field gnaws his grass and drinks his water from the pond; but man, in his princely, almost god-like, estate, feeds on ambrosial foods, and sips wine that is equal to nectar. Some liquid foods contain but little nourishment, such as beer, wine, spirits, cider and perry, cordials, liqueurs, and aerated waters; to these, therefore, we assign the less comprehensive term of “thirst- quenchers,” “ drinks,” or Beverages. Beer claims pride of place in this country, and Pereira says in his work on “ Food and Diet ”: “ The practice of taking a moderate quantity of mild malt liquor, of sound quality, at dinner, is in general not only unobjectionable, but beneficial. It is specially suited for those who lead an active life, and are engaged in laborious pursuits.” Whether bottled or on draught it is exceed- ingly refreshing, and although of recent date a demand has sprung up for foreign light lager beers, it may be regarded as a freak of fashion which will not make much headway against the old-fashioned strong ales of Great Britain. So-called “beers” are concocted from a great variety of materials, such as spruce beer and mum from the decoctions of the fir-tree, ginger beer, beet- root beer, and the famous herb-beers of the midland counties; but they can scarcely be classified amongst our national drinks. Cider and Perry once held the post that beer does now; but the taste for fruit Beverages is not so uni- versal through the country as that for liquors made from grain, which may be due to a variety of causes— possibly as much as any to this, that we have the plain, juicy, unmanipulated fruit to eat at will. Mead and metheglin, prepared from honey, were at one time held in high favour, but have disappeared with the advance of civilisation. Vintners may deny this, and claim that wines were as well made 500 years ago—aye, even in the days of Noah—as they are now. That may be so, in view of the many tricky adulterations that the advancement of chemical science has brought about; but the beer of our ancestors was little better than sweet “wort,” which the introduction of hops has so far brought to perfection that all other Beverages have been superseded by beer. By the wisdom of our Parliament, Acts for the protection of beer’s integrity are passed, which only require thorough administration to insure their lasting popularity; but, unfortunately, it is one thing to make a law, and another thing to enforce it. No fault can be found with the laws against adul- teration as they exist; but either the agents employed to enforce them are very incompetent, or are in some cases weak enough to be bribed; for certain it is that, in spite of them, beer is frequently supplied by brewers in an adulterated condition, and then undergoes further “ doctoring ” and “ reducing ” by the retailer. Cider is in some respects more nearly allied to wine, which leads a celebrated American chemist to class them together in the following remark: “A glass of wine, cider, or other fruit wine, is exactly the food suitable to a tired condition. It furnishes that which requires least work from the stomach for assimilation. It does it quickly, which is a great consideration, and it satisfies the more interior parts of the system, which therefore cease to importune the stomach.” Who invented wine it would be difficult to say: the authorship is attributed to Noah, and our German friends have a little legend illustrative of the assertion which is more amusing than conclusive. “ An angel visiting the earth some time after the Deluge, found the patriarch Noah sitting at noon in the shadow of a fig-tree, very disconsolate. The angel inquired the cause of his grief Noah replied that he was thirsty and had nothing tG