146 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ctec., referred to, see under their special heads. Biscuits—continued. in slices, mask these with maraschino-flavoured icing, dry them in a hot closet, and they are then ready. Bout Biscuits.—Put lib. of finely-powdered and sifted loaf sugar into a basin with 3 teacupfuls of milk, and let it stand two hours, stirring occasionally; rub £lb. of butter into 21b. of sifted flour, and make a well or bay in it. Put | teaspoonful of finely-powdered carbonate of ammonia and a beaten egg into the milk and dissolved sugar; stir together and mix into a smooth dough. Let it stand covered for a few minutes, then roll out to Jin. thick; cut out with round cutter, place on buttered baking-sheets, brush over with milk, and bake quickly. Boyal Biscuits.—Bub lib. of butter into 21b. of flour until it is all crumbled, then add lib. of finely-powdered sugar; make a well in the centre and pour in } pint of milk, adding 1 teaspoonful of caraway-seeds, and make into a dough; break (see Pig. 149), and then roll the paste in sheets of the thickness of a halfpenny, and cut into Biscuits with a small round or oval cutter (see Pig. 156). Place these on lightly-buttered baking-sheets, see that they do not quite touch, dock with a fork or docker, and bake in a quick oven till they just begin to change colour. When cold, they will be crisp. Savoury Biscuits fi, la Melton.—Eub 4oz. of butter into 4oz. of flour until quite smooth, then mix in 4oz. of finely-grated Parmesan cheese and 2 table-spoonfuls of grated ham, also a dash of cayenne pepper. Work the ingredients well until a smooth paste is obtained; then roll this out to a moderate thickness, cut it into pieces 2in. long and lin. wide, lay these on a buttered sheet of paper on a baking-sheet, and bake them in a quick oven until lightly browned. Serve the Biscuits while very hot. Savoy Biscuits.—(1) These famous Biscuits are made in several ways. Break six eggs, put the yolks into a large pudding-basin, and stir in |lb. of caster or finely-powdered and sifted loaf sugar; add 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon- peel (zest), and beat well with a wooden spoon or spaddle until it forms a stiff light batter. Beat up the whites quite stiff, and mix in lightly; stir in £lb. of sifted flour, and mix thoroughly. Pill a Biscuit-bag (see Pig. 153) with the mixture and lay it out in Biscuits about 3)in. long on cartridge or foolscap paper; sift sugar over them through a fine sieve, shake the excess off quickly, and bake on baking- sheets in a sharp oven. When done, cut the Biscuits off the paper and join them together in pairs with white of egg. Instead of sifting the sugar over the Biscuits, many practical cooks lay out the sugar on a piece of paper spread on the board before them, and then, seizing the paper on which the Biscuits are laid by the corners farthest away, by an adroit action turn the sheet of Biscuits upside down on to the sugar. By a similar action the sheet is turned up again, when the Biscuits will be found to be completely sugared without any waste whatever. (2) Hot Process.—Very similar to the preceding, with this exception, that the whole eggs and sugar are beaten together with a whisk in a round-bottomed mixing-pan ovgr a moderate fire or hot-water bath, or in a bain-marie, until warm; then remove, and beat until cold; and lastly, stir in the flour very gently. Proceed in all other respects as for No. 1. (3) Take fifteen eggs, and beat the whites and yolks separately ; lib. of caster sugar and the grated peel, or zest, of two lemons are next added to the yolks, and the whole beaten with two little wooden spaddles, one in each hand, as with little drum-sticks, to make the mixture froth. This must be continued for a quarter-of-an-hour, during which time the whites may be prepared by an assistant beating them briskly with a whisk; add these whilst in a state of froth to the yolks and sugar, during this time the whole being constantly stirred; let |lb. of flour be sifted in by the assistant, the stirring being still continued. When well mixed, the paste is spread, by means of a Biscuit- forcer (see Fig. 155), in lengths of Sjin. on sheets of paper. As each paper is filled, finely-powdered sugar is sifted over them through a lawn or silken sieve; after remaining for a few minutes, while the sugar settles on the Biscuits, shake off the loose sugar and put them on baking-sheets, and bake them a fine clear colour; when cold, detach the pieces Biscuits—continued. from the paper with the back of a knife, and lay them back to back. (4) Sift lightly lib. of flonr; warm a mixing-pan, and put in lib. of caster sugar; break a dozen eggs upon it, and beat both together with a whisk over a slow fire or in a bain-marie until warm; then remove and continue beating till cold ; stir in the lightly-sifted flour ; have a Biscuit-bag (see Fig. 153) ready, put the batter into it, and force it through on to sheets of thick paper; sift sugar over, and bake in a quick oven. When cold, turn up and wet bottom of paper; turn back again, and in five minutes or so they will come off. (5) Savoy Biscuits are sometimes flavoured with vanilla, in which case they are laid by a Biscuit-forcer (see Fig. 155) to about the size of half-a-crown, and dusted with vanilla-flavoured sugar. Shell Biscuits.—Eub lib. of butter with 51b. of flour and lib. of caster sugar, and make into a dough with 1 pint of milk. Break (see Fig. 149), and roll into sheets |in. thick, cut with a large oval-pointed cutter in shape thus O, place them on a crimping-board, and with a knife curl them up in the direc- tion of the grooves on the board. Put on lightly-buttered baking-sheets, and bake in a moderate heat. Ship or Sea Biscuits.—These are generally made of water and flour only, but sometimes a small proportion of yeast worked up with the dough is considered to make an improvement in them. It is then usual to make a sponge by dissolving say lib. of German yeast in igall. of warm water and stirring in 71b. of flour; put 1 teacupful of this, when well worked, with every Jib. of flour, and make into a dough. Break thoroughly (see Fig. 149), cut off pieces the size of a cricket ball, roll out quite round, dock (see Fig. 152), and bake. Shrewsbury Biscuits.—(1) Eub |lb. of butter into 111b. of flour, and make a bay or well in it; add ;jlb. of finely-sifted sugar, two small eggs, and 1 dessert-spoonful of spice ; make the whole into a dough with milk, break it (see Fig. 149), roll it out on an even board to the thickness of Jin., cnt out pieces with a plain round cutter 2|in. in diameter, place them on dry tin baking-sheets, and bake in a cool oven. When the Biscuits are a little coloured round the edges, they are sufficiently baked. (2) Eub lib. of butter into 21b. of flour, add 11b. of caster sugar, and make into a dough with four eggs, 1 pinch of powdered cinnamon, and as much milk as may be required. Break (see Fig. 149), and bake on lightly-buttered tins. (3) Take 14oz. of flour, lOoz. of sugar, lOoz. of butter, two small eggs, half a grated nutmeg, a little cinnamon and mace, and 1 pinch of carbonate of ammonia, sometimes called “ voil,” or “volatile salt,” and proceed as for No. 1. Snowdrop Biscuits.—Eub lib. of butter into lib. of flour, add lib. of best arrowroot, and make a bay in it, adding Jib. of caster sugar and 1 teaspoonful of finely-powdered car1 onate of ammonia. Mix into a dough with the whites of ten eggs, break (see Fig. 149), and roll into strips the thickness of your finger ; cut these the size of marbles, and bake on slightly- greased tins in a very cool oven. Soda Biscuits.—(1) Mix together lqt. of sifted flour, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and sift all together twice ; then rub in 1 large table-spoonful of butter, and make a very soft dough with milk, using a broad knife and wetting only a small part of the flour with each addition of the milk. When just stiff enough to be handled, cut it th:ough with the knife again and again until mixed. (It should look spongy in the cuts and seem full of air.) Turn it out on a weU-floured board, toss with the knife till well floured all over, touching it with the hands as little as possible, pat it with the rolling-pin, which must be lifted quickly that it may not stick, and when the dough is about Jin. thick cut it in rounds and bake at once. To make Twin Biscuits, roll the dough out less than Jin. thick, cut into rounds, spread with softened butter, and put two together, baking them ten or fifteen minutes. (2) Eub 6oz. of lard into 12 Jib. of flour, loz. of salt, and ljoz. of bicarbonate of soda, and make into a dough with loz. of hydrochloric acid dissolved in 2qts. of water; break (see Fig. 149) the dough smooth, and let it lay for about half-an-hour; then roll out in large sheets nearly Jin- in thickness, cut out with an oval or any other shaped cutter