1G4 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, do., referred to, see under their special heads. Boiling—continued. Other materials there are which yield to the water a certain amount of soluble matter, such as gelatine or sugar, and these raise the boiling-point in proportion to the degree of density they confer upon the water. The boiling-point of water is raised by the addition of salt or soda, which has an important bearing upon the cooking of some soi-ts of vegetables, such as “greens”; and the addition of liquids with less density than water, such as wine, will lower the boiling degree sometimes very considerably, which may in a measure be counter- acted by the addition of sugar, salt, gelatine, or some other liquid of a proportionately denser character. This will be better understood when we consider the effects of heat upon foods. The flesh of animals called “ meat ” consists of fibrous cells containing a gummy, glairy (albuminous) juice resembling white of egg, and gelatinous and fibrous mem- branes holding these fibrous cells together; bone con- sists of gelatine and earthy matter; while ligaments and tendons are of a strictly gelatinous character, with a small propoi'tion of albuminous blood. Fat does not enter into our calculations here, as it cannot affect the density or boiling of water by solution. It may thus be seen that in boiling a piece of meat we have generally to deal with a substance made up of four principal ingredients—gelatine, albumen, fibrous and earthy matters. Of these, gela- tine is soluble in water, and albumen is miscible in it but not soluble. By applying heat, gelatine is readily soluble—that is to say, water will take up gelatine more readily as it gets warmer, even up to boiling-point; but albumen will coagulate as the boiling-point is reached; and the only impression made upon the fibrous tissue is that the water as it gets hotter dissolves out of it what gelatine it may contain, and therefore renders it harder and firmer; while the trifling amount of soluble salts contained in the earthy matters of the bone are dissolved out of it. The flavour and nourishing qualities of the meat are due to the albumen contained in the flesh cells and blood; but gelatine, fibrous tissue, and earthy matters of bone possess very little nourishing or flavouring qualities, hence they are not much loss to the meat; but the loss of albumen affects the value of the meat iu every way, so that cooks will do well to take precau- tions to prevent its escape. How can this be done? Chemists tell us that albumen coagulates or hardens like the white of egg (see Albumen) on boiling. Cooks are therefore apt to believe that albumen coagulates only at the actual boiling-point of water, he., 212deg. Fahr. (lOOdeg. Cent.); but this is a mistake, for albumen (white of egg) will harden at a heat some degrees below boiling- point (about 164deg. Fahr.), which accounts for the fact, known to many, that eggs can be boiled quite hard without the water in which they are put coming to the boil at all. If a piece of meat, with its surfaces cut across the bundles of cells, be placed in cold water and heat gradu- ally applied, a stream of gelatine and albumen will be steadily drawn into the water from the cut surfaces; and as the warmth increases, the dissolving of the gelatine out of the fibrous tissue forming the cell walls, tendons, ligaments, skin, and bone, increases also, breaking up and weakening to some extent the tissues containing it, especially the fibrous cell walls and the fibrous network and thin membranes which bind the cells together. This renders the meat soft and loose in texture, and the cell walls weak and leaky, thus permitting the escape of the nourishing and flavouring albumen into the water, not merely from the cells which are cut through but also from those which are weakened by their walls being dissolved away, rendering them leaky and fragile ; and, as the textiu-e loosens by this continued dissolving away of the fibrous tissue binding the cells together, the in- fluence of the water as it warms extends rapidly into the substance of the meat, and the meat becomes ragged Boiling—continued. and flavourless, whilst the water teems with its albumen and gelatine. This proceeding is very well when it is desired to make stock, but if it is- the cook’s desire to serve up a boiled joint, it stands to reason that the exudation of the albumen and gelatine must be stopped on the threshold; and how is that to be done P Albumen is coagulable at something much below 212deg. Fahr. (lOOdeg. Cent.), and the cut surfaces of meat, which are the weakest points, are invariably covered with a layer of albumen; therefore, it stands to reason that if the water in the pot can be brought up to a temperature closely approximating to boiling and the cut surfaces popped suddenly into it, the albu- minous layer will coagulate at once, and form a sort of hard “ white-of-egg ” sheath over the cut siirfaces thus dipped. Carrying this idea a little further, the water in the pot should be brought to the highest possible pitch, and the meat (unwiped) plunged in; this will in a measure protect the cut surfaces. In braising (a cooking process not sufficiently understood or practised in this country), good cooks first apply the cut surfaces of a joint to great heat, thus arresting any unnecessary exudation. This might also be done with advantage before putting meat into water to boil; first, because cooks are apt to consider the water quite hot enough if only warm, and, secondly, because plunging a large joint into water however hot must necessarily reduce the temperature of the whole quantity far below that degree required to coagulate albumen. If cooks would only bear these stubborn facts in mind, we should have boiled joints served with full flavour, and the stock would contain but little of the quality of the meat. In most cases, nowadays, in private kitchens, the stock in which the meat is boiled con- stitutes the most important part of the boiled joint. By salting meat the fibrous tissue is hardened, but this does not prevent, although it slightly interferes with the readiness of, the solvent action of the heated water upon the gelatine. Every cook knows that gelatine, however hard and dry, is soluble in hot water, and sparingly so in cold, for which reason it has come to pass that cooks put salt meat into cold water with impunity, as they think; but as the water warms up, the gelatine has to give way, more slowly for having been hardened, and out pours the albumen; not so soon, perhaps, but that the coagulation of that remaining will take place by the water boiling before so much has had time to escape as would happen if the gelatine were not hardened by salting. The gelatine of some meats is much softer and more easily dissolved than that of beef; that of mutton, veal, pork, poultry, and fish, for instance, are soft in the order given, and consequently the precautions necessary to be taken for the immediate coagulation of their albumen are the more emphatically important, if it were possible to be so, than in beef. But some fish are of an exceedingly fibrous character, such as turbot and salmon, with the result that cooks put them into cold water first, without probably knowing the reason why they do so. Vegetables contain albumen in a very large proportion, which makes them firm when raw, but soft and brittle when cooked, and these should almost without exception be plunged into boiling water to set their albumen before it escapes. Potatoes and some other vegetables contain a large proportion of starch, which swells in a moist heat, so that it is advisable to bring the water steadily up to boiling-point, that the heat may enter the heart of the vegetable before the outside has been seriously affected. From what has been said it is quite evident that cooks must use considerable judgment in boiling, because the mode of procedure will depend in all cases upon the chemical quality and composition of the food to be boiled