TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 132 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Beetroots—continued. Beetroots Sautes in Butter.—Proceed as for Boiled Beet- roots. When cooked and peeled, cut them up in heart-shaped slices, put them into a sauR-pan with loz. of butter, season with 1 pinch of pepper, and sprinkle over a very little powdered loaf sugar. Let them cook on the stove for six minutes, carefully tossing them from time to time; then arrange them on a hot vegetable-dish, and serve. Beetroots Sautes a la Creme. — Proceed the same as for preceding receipt, adding £ pint of hot bechamel sauce three minuses before serving. Boiled Beetroots.—Wash lqt. of sound, young Beetroots in cold water, place them in a saucepan, covering them with cold water, season with a handful of salt and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, put on the lid, and cook for an hour and ten minutes. Take them from the fire, lift them from the water, and peel them while they are warm. When done, put them into a stone jar, strain over them the liquor in which they were boiled, spread 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar on top, cover them, and put them away in a cool place until required. When served hot, cut them into slices, dust with caster sugar and salt, and pour butter (warmed) over all. Some persons like a little salad-oil and cayenne pepper added also. Care must be taken not to cut or break the skins anywhere; for should this happen the root is apt to bleed into the water, and become white and tasteless. This may be prevented in small injuries by rubbing flour over the wound, and plunging the Beetroot into boiling water. Boiled Beetroot Leaves.—Cut off the tender leaves from young Beetroots, removing the thick stalks, wash them well, and let them soak in cold water for several hours. Put a small lump of common soda into a saucepan of water, and when it boils put in the greens and cook for half-an-hour. Take them out, drain them, sprinkle them over with salt and a little of the fat from corned beef, or butter, chop them up fine, and serve in a vegetable-dish. Dandelion-and-Beetroot Salad.—See Dandelion. Macerated Beetroots. — Peel and mince one or two boiled Beetroots. Put a layer of this at the bottom of a jar, cover over with minced horseradish and a few peppercorns, and continue in this way until the ingredients are used up. Pill the jar with vinegar, let it stand for a day, and the Beetroot is then ready for use. It can be used for garnishing cooked salads. Pickled Beetroots.— (1) As this pickle is little more than sliced cold Beetroot with vinegar poured over, it keeps no better, and should therefore be prepared in small quantities. On the Continent it is usual to flavour the pickle with a variety of things, and the following is a good receipt for pickling in that way: Slice, or cut up into squares, as many cold cooked Beets as required, and put them into wide-mouthed pickle bottles. Boil in sufficient vinegar to cover them, a blade of mace, Joz. of ginger-root, and 1 drachm of scraped horse- radish to the pint; pour this whilst boiling hot over the Beetroot, and cork or tie down with wet bladder whilst cooling. To prevent the bottles cracking when the vinegar is poured in, stand them in hot water for a little time before filling. (2) Wash the Beetroots, cut off the stalks, boil until tender, then peel and cut into thin slices; arrange the slices in a jar, and pour over them £ pint of the liquor in which they were cooked. Peel two cloves of garlic, and pound them in a mortar with a small lump of salt; then mix them in with the Beetroot, and also 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar. Pour in £ pint of the best white vinegar, and stir the pickle well; it is then ready for use. (3) Another very good way to pickle Beetroots is to fill the jars with the slices as in No. 1, and then to every ^lb. of Beetroot add 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, two cloves, and 1 teaspoonful of coriander- or caraway-seeds, and fill up with boiling vinegar. Cork or tie down. BEIGNET(S).—French for fritter(s). BELGIAN IEEE.—This differs from most other beers in its peculiar vinous flavour. Amongst the more celebrated are Lambic, Faro, Nitzet of Flanders, Arge of Antwerp, and Fortes-Saisons of the Walloons. Louvain, Belgian Beer—continued. a white beer of Antwerp, which is very popular amongst the working classes, has the combined flavours, so it is said, of “ water, beer, pitch, pinewood, soapsuds, vinegar, treacle, and a few other things.” BELGIAN PTJBEE —This is so called because the principal of the ingredients comprising the puree is Brussels Sprouts, and under that heading the receipt for its preparation will be foimd. BENCOOLEN TEA.—Made by the inhabitants of the Malayan Islands from the leaves of the Glapliyria nitida. It is said to be very aromatic and refreshing, and occasionally, no doubt, finds its way into other teas as a substitution. See Tea. BENEDICTINE.—A liqueur made at the Abbey of Fecamp, not considered of such great merit as many others. Somewhat similar to Chartreuse. BENGAL CUBBY.—See Curries. BENI.—This is the name of a Russian sacramental repast or feast observed at Easter by Russians, Poles, Greeks, and other members of the Greek Church, and is probably the origin of our word “ beanfeast.” It is fully described by Urbain Dubois, who had some experience of it when engaged as royal cook in Prussia. He tells us that the guests partake of it standing up, and that the table, which is usually elegantly laid, is not cleared all day, but dishes are replaced as soon as emptied. Amongst the ordinary kinds of viands to be found at a Beni feast are poultry, game, hams, veal, and sausages, but fish is rigorously excluded. Baba cakes, both moulded and baked in a square shape, and sprinkled with chopped almonds, are common to all, but no Beni feast would be complete without salt cooked in a special style, cheese prepared in a certain way and decorated with currants, coloured hard-boiled eggs, sucking pigs stuffed and roasted, and a lamb (the Pascal) modelled in butter, placed on an invitation table, and holding a Greek cross between its fore feet. The cheese is a white variety, squeezed in a cloth, then pounded up with a piece of butter slightly sweetened with caster sugar, and mixed up with a few table-spoonfuls of raw cream. It is afterwards pressed through a sieve and kept a few hours in a wooden mould in the shape of a pyramid. The mould is composed of four movable slabs, mounted by the aid of grooves, and bearing on at least two of the inside faces a cross cut out or raised. Before moulding the cheese, the interior surfaces are spread with a fine cloth. When the cheese is taken out of the mould the cloth is removed and its angles are decorated with currants.- The salt is first finely pounded, then diluted with the white of egg to form a very stiff paste, then wrapped up in a cloth, secured with string, and set in glowing ashes for three or four hours. When the cloth is consumed by the fire, the salt forms a white calcined lump. It is then pounded, and placed in the salt-cellars. Before cooking the eggs, a Greek cross should be drawn on the shells with fat or soap, and then the eggs are plunged into water coloured with cochineal or saffron, to boil; this colours them red or yellow. The Russians eat the eggs with the purified salt. All the dishes ought to be blessed by the priest before being offered to the family or guests. Russians never fail to celebrate this Easter feast wherever they may be sojourning. Hence this description of it may be of interest to some who have Russian friends to entertain. BENZOIN.—This gum-resin is used for flavouring and giving body and aroma to cordials and liqueurs. When required for watery solutions it must first be distilled. See Cordials and Liqueurs. BEQUET. — The lower jaw of a pig’s head, which is generally cured and smoked, as with our Bath chaps.