195 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Y 2 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bride Cakes—continued. nutmegs. Beat well, and sprinkle in 21b. of currants well washed and dried, and then slicing thinly Jib. of each can- died peels, finish by making all smooth with the brandy and sherry. Beat until ready for baking. A well-buttered paper must , be put round the baking-tin, and the mixture should not more than three-parts fill the tin. Put a greased paper over the top, and bake in a moderately hot oven. When nearly cold, coyer with almond icing, let it dry, and then add ornamented sugar icing -yin. in thickness, and ornament accord- ing to circumstances and ability. (4) Work ljlb. of butter in a pan with a spoon to a cream; then add by degrees ljlb. of sifted sugar, 2Vlb. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and twelve eggs, and mix well together; then add lib. of dried cherries stoned and chopped up, lib. of well-washed currants, l|lb. of mixed candied peel, £ pint of brandy, \oz. each of cloves, cinnamon, coriander-seeds, and nutmeg well pounded, 1 teacupful of caramel, the grated rind (zest) of four oranges, and Rb. of ground almonds. Mix all well together. Line a hoop with buttered paper at both the sides and bottom, put it upon a baking-sheet, pour in the mixture, and bake for about two-hours-and-a-half in a moderate oven always kept at one heat. (5) Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar and 14oz. of butter into a basin, and beat them to a cream ; add twelve eggs beaten as light as possible, alternate with lib. of sifted flour. When well mixed, add a grated nutmeg, 2 teaspoonfuls of powdered mace, and 1 gill of brandy; mix well again, and add 31b. of stoned raisins, 21b. of sultanas, and lib. each of well-washed and dried currants and candied citron-peel cut into small strips. All the fruit should be well dredged with flour before being added. Mix vigorously for fully ten minutes, then turn the batter into a pan or mould lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about four hours. Turn it out, let it get cold, and serve. It may be iced if desired. (6) Place in a large bowl lib. each of powdered sugar and well-washed butter; grate in the rind of two lemons, and with the hand knead well for ten minutes ; break in ten whole eggs, two at a time, and knead for ten minutes longer. Mix in a plate 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of ground cloves, 2 teaspoonfuls of ground allspice, 1 tea- spoonful each of mace and grated nutmeg, and add these, with ^ gill of treacle. Mix well for one minute with the hand, and then add lib. of well-sifted flour, stirring for two minutes more; add 21b. of well-washed and dried currants, 21b. each of sultanas and Malaga raisins, lib. of candied citron-peel finely sliced, and 1 gill each of rum and brandy. Mix the whole well together for fifteen minutes, using both hands if necessary. Butter the interior of a plain 5qt. round cake-mould, line the bottom and sides with paper, leaving it l^in. higher than the edge of the mould, pour in all the preparation, and place it in a very slow oven to bake for five hours. When done, lay it on a table to cool off for about four hours. Turn out of the mould, detach the paper, and turn the cake bottom up in a wire pastry grating; after ten minutes, glaze it with one egg-white which has been beaten in a bowl with 4oz. of icing sugar, using the spatula to apply the glazing. Lay the cake in a warm place to dry for two hours. Beat up the whites of three eggs with 12oz. of icing sugar for ten minutes, and ice over the cake as before, evenly all around, and lay aside for two hours more. After it is thoroughly dried, lay it on a round wooden board, with a fancy paper cover 2in. wider than the board; procure a fancy wedding bell, with a miniature bride and groom standing under, or any other ornament that may be suitable for the occasion, and set it in the centre of the cake, fastening it on with royal icing. Decorate the surface of the cake with ornaments made of the icing; also a fancy border round the edge and base, pressed through a strong paper cornet with a fancy tube. Let it dry for two hours, and it is ready to serve. (7) Melt 2Rb. of butter, cream it by beating with the hand, and adding at the same time 2flb. of caster sugar, together with loz. of mixed spice ; then add slowly lqt. of broken eggs, stirring all the time. Chop up finely Rib. of candied orange- and lemon-peel, 31b. of citron-peel, 4j-lb. of currants which have been washed, dried, and soaked in 1 pint of brandy, and 211b. of ground sweet almonds, and mix them all' with the butter, taking care that it is still warm; then sift in gradually 2jlb. of best white flour. Line a broad tin hoop at the bottom with several sheets of paper, Bride Cakes—continued. and round the sides with one, having previously buttered the side likely to come in contact with the cake; pour the mixture into this, cover the top with six sheets of paper, and bake for ten hours in a moderate oven. (8) Mix 21b. each of butter and moist sugar (warming the butter) until it becomes creamy; next break into a bowl twenty eggs, and well whisk them together, adding them to the butter and sugar a little at a time. They must not be added too quickly, or the mixture will curdle. Having worked them all in, add 51b. of well-washed and dried currants, 21b. of mixed peel cut up in thin slices, |oz. of spice, lib. of blanched almonds, 1 gill eacli of port and brandy, and i gill of orange-flower water, mixing in 21b. of sifted flour, and working together gently. Line a cake-hoop with buttered paper, also covering the bottom; place two sheets of buttered paper upon a baking-sheet, and the cake-hoop upon this, then put in the mixture. Before putting the cake into the oven, another baking-sheet should bo put under the first one to prevent burning. A moderate heat is sufficient to bake this cake, and care must be taken that it is properly baked through. Next mix together Rib. of ground almonds, 21b. of finely-sifted loaf sugar, a little orange-flower water, and sufficient yolks of eggs to make it into a stiff paste. Boll this out about the size of the cake, place it upon the top after it has become cold, and roll it round and at the sides so as to make it smooth and level with the cake. Let this dry. The whole cake may now be iced over about Rn. thick. When this has become perfectly hard, decorate the top and sides with gum-paste ornaments tastefully arranged, either in the form of garlands, wreaths, scrolls, &c., or else the cake may be decorated with piping, using for the purpose the remainder of the icing. The ornaments, flowers, wreaths, &c., must be white and should be appropriate to the quality of the occasion. (9) Warm £lb. of butter and lib. of sugar, and stir them together to a cream ; add ten eggs, two at a time, beating well, then add 111b. of flour by degrees. When all the flour is in, add Rib. of stoned raisins, Rib. of washed and dried currants, lib. of chopped citron-peel, 8oz. of ground almonds, 1 table- spoonful of mixed ground spices, i pint of brandy, and the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Line the mould with buttered paper, and bake from one to two hours, according to depth. Ice and ornament at discretion. BRIE CHEESE—A sort of cream cheese manufac- tured at La Brie, which is situated within a few miles of Paris. This cheese was at one time considered superior to all others of the cream class; but since the introduction of Roquefort, spurious imitations conse- quent upon its scarcity and the difficulty of keeping it, have caused it to retire commercially into the second class, although those epicures who have had the privilege of tasting the real thing declare that it has no rival in the world. It is a soft, creamy, and glutinous cheese, made in large rounds, hut not more than fin. in thick- ness. The secret of its manufacture, if there be any beyond the richness of the pasturage and quality of the kine, is best known to the producers. BRILIi (Rhombus Icevis, or R. vulgaris).—A species of flat fish between a turbot and a sole, and, from a culinary point of view, inferior to both. It most resembles the turbot, from which, however, it may be distinguished by the absence of bony tubercles, with which all turbot-eaters are familiar; by the small, almost smooth, scales; and by the reddish-brown spots on the upper side (Pig. 209). It seldom weighs more than 81b., and is not so firm in flesh as the turbot, and is in season from September to May. Baked Brill.—(1) Take a good-sized fish, clean it well, and then open the back with a knife as far as the backbone will allow. Chop up very fine 1 teacupful of small onions and shallots and 1 teacupful of mushrooms, and spread them over a well-buttered baking-dish, adding 1 teacupful of brown sauce or gravy, and 1 wineglassful of Madeira. Put the Brill on its back on the dish, sprinkle some breadcrumbs and some of the herbs over it, and pour a little melted butter over. Put the dish in the oven, and bake for thirty minutes, basting