THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 174 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Brains—continued. set aside. Put in a stewpan lqt. of water, two onions, a bay-leaf, 1 pinch of saltpetre, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; put the tongues in this, and boil for three hours. Boil the Brains separately in a well-seasoned stock—ten minutes will suffice. When the tongues are done, let them cool in their liquor, then skin them. Cut each half of the Brains into four slices, and dip them in egg and well-seasoned bread- crumbs. Trim the tongues, divide them into slices, and egg- and-breadcrumb them. Put in a frying-pan loz. of butter; when it froths, put in the tongues and Brains, and fry until lightly browned. Flavour a little gravy with mushrooms (if these are not in season, a little lemon-juice), and pour round the dish. Forcemeat of Brains.—Put some Brains into a little warm water, and let them remain for three hours to soak. Take them out, clean, and boil them; let them get cold, chop them up small, and pound them in a mortar with a little flour, parsley finely minced, with salt and pepper to taste; add sufficient egg to moisten, and make them into small balls; put these into a frying-pan with a little butter or fat, and fry for about ton minutes, or until of a light brown colour. Take them out, and they are ready for use. Fried Brains.—(1) Extract the blood from the Brains of any animal by soaking in cold salted water for several hours, drain them, and put them in a stewpan ; pour boiling water over them, put them on the fire to simmer gently for a few minutes, form them in a round shape (careful handling is required, as they are very liable to break), add a very small quantity of pepper and salt, cover the top of the Brains with egg beaten up, sift grated bread over, and fry in hot lard. Fry both sides, keeping the pan covered while cooking. (2) Wash any Brains carefully in cold salted water, and boil them fast in well-seasoned stock so as to harden them. Take them out when done, and put to cool. When they are quite cold, cut them in halves or slices, dip each piece first in well-beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little dried parsley rubbed to a fine powder, and fry in butter till of a light brown colour. Skim the fat off the stock when it is cold, reduce it in a saucepan to about one-quarter its previous quantity, and pour it round the Brains on a dish. A slice of tomato placed under or by the side of each piece of Brain is a great addition. Pickled cucumber may be added to the gravy and served in it. (3) Lay the Brains in salted water, to remove the blood. Make a light batter of flour and eggs, and scramble the Brains like eggs with a fork. Dip the Brains in the batter, and fry to a light brown. Scrambled Brains in Patties.—Put lib. of Brains into a stewpan with water and a little vinegar, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Remove the dark outside, and put them in a frying-pan with loz. of butter, four eggs, and a little parsley finely chopped, adding salt and pepper to taste. Put them on the fire, and stir well until the eggs are cooked soft. Have ready some puff paste, and fill patty-pans with it; take a biscuit-cutter not so large as the pans, and cut the centre of the paste half through, so as to form a lid'; put them in the oven for a few minutes to cook before putting in the Brains. When the paste is set, remove the centre lids, fill up the central cavities with the Brain prepara- tion, replace the lids, and put a sprig of parsley on each. Return to the oven for a few seconds to heat. Stewed Brains.—(1) Put the Brains in salted water for two or three hours to get the blood out, and then boil for thirty minutes in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them. Pour the water off, and add 1 teacupful of milk (or cream if procurable), 1 pinch of salt, a little pepper, and about ljoz. of butter. Boil quickly for ten or twelve minutes, add 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, and serve. (2) Spanish Style.—Put the Brains into a basin of warm water and soak them until all the blood is extracted and the skin comes off easily. Put a few slices of veal or veal trimmings at the bottom of a saucepan, with two slices of fat pork and two carrots and onions cut in slices ; arrange the Brains on the top of this, pour in sufficient stock to moisten, put a piece of buttered paper over all, cover over the pan, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until the Brains are done. Take them out, put them on a dish, simmer the liquor until it is nearly thick, strain it into another Brains—continued. saucepan, warm the Brains in it for a few minutes, and turn the whole out on to a dish. Pour a little hot gravy or stock into the saucepan, stir it well so as to remove any of the Brain liquor that may have stuck to the pan, pour it over the Brains, and serve very hot. BRAISING.—This is perhaps more clearly described as a combination of baking and stewing, and may be considered as one of the early processes of cooking, or burying in hot ashes. To the French cooks in this country we are indebted for the restoration of the process as one worthy of practice, and that in spite of the observation made by a very modern writer on the subject of cookery, who says: “ I do not dwell at very great length on the process, as I am convinced that it will never be a popular form of cooking with us.” It is not a question as to the value or merit of the process with writers on cookery of the stamp above-mentioned, but the mere fact that it has not yet found much favour in this country is sufficient to induce them to withhold their favour. The chances are that any person hazarding such a remark in a book which is supposed to instruct young cooks, knows little or nothing of the subject upon which he is writing. Mr. Dallas says of it: “ The meat, which is nearly always boned, is put into a copper stewpan with broth and vegetables, and set upon embers or upon the corner of the stove to simmer very gently. Tims far it is the easiest-going stew that can be imagined. It is at the same time on its upper surface subject to another process of heat. The lid is tightly closed upon it, some- times with clay or dough, and is in a form to hold burning embers, which ought to generate upon the surface of the stew a heat that, if applied below and in contact with the metal bottom, might burn it. Below there is a slow stew going on; above, the meat is in a sort of miniature oven baking and browning. It is a favourite mode of cooking with the French, and is supposed to create unusual flavour, combining the advantages of roasting and boiling. Whether it does so is another question. Braised meat is no doubt an improvement upon boiled, but it never reaches the flavour of a roast. This, however, is a matter of opinion, and French cooks often put paper over delicate meat which is to be braised —say a fowl or turkey—to make sure that the heat of the hrasier above will not give it too much of the taste.” Another authority tells us that pieces of meat with gristle can be made digestible by braising, if the process is carried out by a slow fire and for the proper length of time—that is, upwards of four hours—and if it is basted about every twenty minutes with the gravy which surrounds, but does not cover the meat. Jessup White- head, whose opinion as a practical cook and ingenious writer upon culinary matters is worthy of much con- sideration, expresses himself strongly in favour of braising; he tells us that it is “ a little process in cookery that is but little known by that name; but without understanding it, it is impossible to be a very good cook. Many an old Virginia black ‘aunty,’ and many another in the places where open fireplaces prevail, bakes some- thing that has a wonderfully savoury smell while cooking and delicious juiciness when done, in her old-fashioned oven or skillet, or whatever it is, on the hearth with a lid and coals on top of it, without ever dreaming that she is carrying on the process of braising, one of the chief methods of French cookery, and in a manner more suc- cessful through her constant practice than the imitation done on top of a range can generally be. The English substitutes used are ‘ potted ’ and ‘ smothered,’ which, however, are not equivalent and not of single meaning. We are particular in trying to lay this down plainly, because anyone who is familiar with the traditions of that savoury home-cooking that made the turkey, or duck, or sucking-pig, or Dinah’s ’coon or ’possum, with sweet potatoes browning alongside of it—that cooking