TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 115 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their svecial heads. Beef—cont inued. with the pickle. Roll it np tightly in a cloth, put it in the pres3 for twenty-four hours, hang it up in a dry place or in a wide chimney, and let it remain until wanted. When used for cooking, it must he tied up in a cloth. Essence of Beef.—Take of lean Beef, sliced (inferior parts will do), a sufficient quantity to fill the body of a bottle; cork up loosely, and place it in a pot of cold water, attaching the neck, by means of a string, to the handle of the pot. Boil from one-and-a-half to two hours, then pour off what liquid there may be in the bottle, and strain it. To this preparation may be added celery, spices, salt, wine, brandy, &c. A dessert-spoonful in a cup of warm water makes a fine Beef-tea drink. Fillet of Beef.—The fillet of Beef is properly the under-cut of the sirloin, or “ tenderloin ” as it is called, which, from its tender, juicy character, is a great favourite for the operations of artistic cooks. Several receipts which exhibit very great taste and ingenuity are given for its preparation: (1) Wipe, and remove the fat, veins, and tough tendinous portions in the middle of a fillet, and trim into shape. Lard the upper side, dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, put several pieces of pork in the pan under the meat, and bake in a hot oven twenty or thirty minutes. The pork may be omitted, and choice pieces of Beef-fat put over the meat. Serve with mushroom sauce; or, brush the fillet with beaten egg and sprinkle seasoned breadcrumbs all over it, and bake twenty minutes; or, stuff the incisions left by the removal of the veins and tendons with any stuffing or force- meat, dredge with salt and flour, and bake. The centre part only should be carved at a first-class table (Fig. 133). Fig. 133. Larded Fillet of Beef Cut as for Carving. (2) Take a piece of fillet, cut it into slices about 4in. square and Jin. thick, and lard them. Put them into a pan with a very little good stock, some vegetables cut small, and braise them. They will take three-quarters-of-an-hour to stew and a few minutes to brown. Serve in a circle with gravy poured round, and the centre filled with tomatoes or mixed vegetables. (3) Take a piece of fillet of Beef, trim off the fat neatly and the thin skin next to it, lard (not too finely) the outside of the fillet with fat bacon, and lay it for a whole day in a pie-dish with plenty of olive-oil, pepper, salt, parsley, slices of onions, and bay-leaves. Turn it occasionally. Cover the larded side with a piece of oiled paper, roast it at a brisk fire, and do not let it be overdone. Baste it frequently with butter, or with some of the marinade in which it has been lying; and a short time before serving, remove the paper, dust the fillet with salt, and cease basting, to lot the larding take colour. Collect what gravy is in the dripping-pan, free it. entirely from fat, and serve it under the fillet, garnished with fried potatoes and watercress. If you cannot collect sufficient gravy from the fillet, some well-flavoured Beef stock may be added to make up a sufficient quantity. (4) Fillet of Beef may be fried in butter and served with tomatoes sliced and baked on a baking-sheet for three or four minutes, with some pieces of fat cut into rounds. It should be cut into Jin. slices, and a tomato, &c., placed on each, with a small pat of maitre-d’hotel butter. (5) , Cut the fillet into slices, season, and cook them on a gridiron. Then glaze them and lay them over a pile of mashed potatoes. A small piece of cooked fat should be Beef—continued. laid on each fillet, surmounted by a tuft of finely-scraped horseradish; while a few fried onions in the centre, and a good rich gravy over all, make an appetising dish. Celery, well seasoned and stewed in stock, is rubbed through a coarse sieve, and served with a braised fillet. Fillet of Beef in Aspic.—Cut off the ragged parts of a small fillet of Beef, to give it a nice appearance, also the thickest part of the thin end, and make a deep incision down the thin side. Finely chop and pound some lean veal, pass it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the mortar, and mix with it an equal quantity of chopped Beef-suet and about one-third the quantity of panada. Pound all well together, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and bind it together with beaten eggs; then mix in some truffles, ox- tongue, and whites of hard-boiled eggs, all cut into small pieces. Stuff the fillet with the forcemeat; cover it first with slices of celery, then with cooked ham, and lastly with thin slices of fat bacon; then tie it up. Put the Beef in a brais- ing-pan with two calf’s feet and some stock, place the pan over a slow fire, and stew the meat between two and three hours till it is tender. When cooked, take the fillet out of the liquor and leave it till cold. Strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve into a basin and leave it till set; strain off all the fat, and mop it over with a cloth dipped in hot water, to remove the grease; clarify the liquor, and pass it through a silk sieve. Pour a small quantity of the liquor into a mould that will hold the fillet, and place it on ice till set. Trim the fillet at both ends, cut some small pieces of whites of hard-boiled eggs, tongue, and truffles, which arrange tastefully about on the set jelly; pour in sufficient of the jelly stock to cover them, and let it get firm; then lay the fillet of Beef on the jelly, the top downwards, and pour in the rest of the clarified liquor. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, to loosen the jelly at the sides, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a dish. Garnish and ornament to taste, and serve. Fillet of Beef with Bearnaise Sauce.—Take 21b. of fillet of Beef cut up into small round slices, 2oz. of glaze, 2oz. of butter, one chopped mushroom, pepper, and salt. Fry the fillets in the butter with the mushroom and seasoning. When cooked, brush each one over with a little glaze. Dish the fillets in a circle on mashed potato or spinach, and serve Bearnaise sauce in the centre, with some brown sauce poured round. Fillet of Beef A la Broche.—Having trimmed the skin off, beat the fillet lightly and lard it lengthwise with fillets of fat bacon ; lay it in a deep dish, cover it thickly with some slices of carrots, turnips, and onions, and pieces of celery, leek, thyme, and parsley, and moisten it with a few table- spoonfuls of salad-oil. Let the fillet steep in the marinade for several hours. When ready to cook, cover the fillet with the vegetables, and bind it tightly round with plenty of thick paper. Fix the meat on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire for about an hour-and-three-quarters, basting it continually. Prepare the following sauce : Boil a few chopped shallots in about J teacupful of vinegar for a minute, then mix in 1 pint of half-glaze and a little less than J pint of broth. Boil the liquor till reduced to a thick cream, and season it with a small quantity of sugar and cayenne pepper. Make a croustade, something the shape of a breast-plate, and fix it at the head of a dish; drain the fillet, remove the vegetables, brush the larded part over with glaze, and brown it under a salamander. Put the fillet in the centre of the dish, and garnish it round with a border of potatoes, on which place alternately some glazed fillets of tongue and quenelles. Cut some cooked heads of asparagus into different lengths, and fix them inside on the top of the croustade to represent arrows. Pour the sauce over the fillet, and serve. Fillet of Beef d la Chateaubriand.—Take 2Jib. of fillet of Beef, cut it up into round pieces about 2in. in diameter and Jin. thick, and lay these in a marinade of oil and vinegar, four bay-leaves, a few allspice, and a little chopped vegetables, about two hours before they are required for the table. When wanted for use, take them out, drain them, and toss them in a saute-pan with clarified butter; when one, the butter should be drained off, and half-glaze poured over them. Build them round upon a border of mashed potatoes, with fried potatoes in the centre. When sending Q & R 2