35 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Lc., referred to, see under their special heads. Apples—continued. hollow centre filled in with boiled custard, and whipped white of egg and sugar piled on top. It need not be baked, but the top may be browned by holding a red-hot shovel over it, or by placing it on the shelf in the oven. Serve cold. (2) Stir with 1 pint of hot stewed Apple 1 table-spoonful of butter, f teacupful of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. When this is cold, beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir into the Apple. Butter a 3-pint dish, turn the souffle into it, and bake thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve immediately, hot, with any kind of sweet or wine sauce. (3) Take lglb. of slightly-sweetened Apple Marmalade, well reduced and perfumed, flavoured with a few drops of essence of lemon; let it boil steadily, stirring continuously; then take it off the fire, and beat with it seven or eight whites of eggs, whipped very firm. Pour this preparation into a souffle- pan, smooth its surface with the blade of a knife, giving it a dome or inverted-cone shape, set in a slack oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Candied angelica, cut in diamonds or other shapes, and half-candied cherries, may be set upon the souffle to ornament its sloping sides. Apple Souffle in Paste.—Cover the outside of a well- buttered pie-dish with some rich puff paste, put it in the oven, and bake it lightly ; take it out, and carefully remove the dish, so that the paste will form a shell. Pare, core, and stew to a pulp a dozen large Apples, put them in the shell of paste, and add the thin rind of half a lemon (cooked quite soft and tender) and 3oz. of crushed and pounded loaf sugar; then heap over all the whites of four eggs whipped * to a stiff froth, and dust it over with caster sugar. Put the souffle in the oven, and bake until it is of a light golden colour. Take it out, and serve on a napkin folded on a dish, with another one put round the base of the souffle to keep it in position. Apple Sugar.—This, made on the principle of Barley Sugar, is generally much liked as a sweetmeat. Boil lib. of fine loaf sugar in 8oz. of water and 8oz. of expressed Apple-juice. Add 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid, and boil to the crack (see Sugar-boiling). Then add the juice of a lemon and a few drops of essence of lemon, and give the sugar another boil. Cool the bottom of the pan by plunging a little way into cold water, and when the heat of the sugar is subsiding pour the sugar on to a marble slab very slightly smeared with oil of almonds. As the sugar spreads, lift it up all round in a heap with a knife, and as soon as it has cooled a little, cut off slips as wide as your finger; roll these into round sticks, twist them so as to resemble cords, and lay them on an oiled baking-sheet to set. These sticks want keeping in closely-stoppered bottles or jars. Apple Syrup.—Cut off the peel from 101b. or 201b. of Apples, put them into a mortar with a little crushed loaf sugar, and pound well. Put this into a very fine sieve, and squeeze out all the juice, to every pint of which take 3 teacupfuls of water and 31b. of sugar. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan and boil them; then add the juice, remove the pan at once from the fire, stir well, skim off all the scum, pass it through a fine sieve into a basin or jar, and it is ready for use. Apple and Tapioca Pudding.—Pare and core half-a-dozen large, sweet, cooking Apples, and stuff them with a mixture of sugar and powdered cinnamon. Arrange them in a pie- dish, put a small lump of butter on each, sprinkle round them a breakfast-cupful of tapioca sweetened with sugar and well flavoured with lemon-rind finely grated, pour in sufficient water to fill the dish, place it in a slow oven, and bake until both the Apples and tapioca are thoroughly cooked. Take the dish out of the oven, and serve. Apple Tapioca —Soak some tapioca—f breakfast-cupful in lqt. of cold water—for a few hours, or pour lqt. of boiling water over it. Boil this in a convenient utensil until the tapioca is transparent. Stir often, and add f teaspoonful of salt. Core and pare seven or eight large Apples, and either quarter them or leave them whole. If quartered, they must be stirred into the tapioca, with 1 breakfast-cupful of powdered white sugar and 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and the mass turned out into a buttered dish, and baked for half-an-hour. If whole, the core-holes should be filled with sugar and lemon-juice. Apples—continued. Pour the tapioca over them, and bake till the Apples are very soft. Serve either hot or cold, with sugar and cream. A delicious variation may be made by using equal parts of Apples and canned or fresh quinces. Apple Tart.—(1) An Apple Pie may be converted into a tart by cutting out the top crust (being careful not to break the border), and filling up the centre to the rim of the dish with strongly-flavoured boiled custard, smoothed over. With some fancy tin cutters stamp out the pastry top which you have taken off, and put the pieces in some design upon the custard. Then pipe round the edges of the pieces of paste with piping- sugar in paper cones, and fill in the centres with Apple and Red-currant Jelly. This dish is a really pretty and uncommon one. (2) Take fib. of puff paste, and roll out to about fin. in thickness. Provide yourself with an open-tart mould, butter it well, and lay it upon a buttered baking-sheet. Lay the paste over, press it into the shape, and trim off to the level of the rim of the mould. Fill in with minced Apples flavoured with lemon or cinnamon. Or the Apples may be prepared in this way: Put into a saute-pan 6oz. of butter, eighteen peeled, cored, and sliced Apples, and 4oz. of powdered sugar, and stir over a brisk fire for about a quarter-of-an- hour. Bake the tart with the Apples in for half-an-hour, and when cold spread over the face of the Apples 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of apricot jam or Apple Jelly. Flemish Style.—Peel, core, and mince 21b. or 31b. of good cooking Apples, put them into a flat stewpan with butter, and toss them over a brisk fire. Add a little sugar, and heat them gently until sufficiently done without breaking. Put them into a flat dish, and smooth them into a dome, covering after with rich almond cream or meringue. Decorate with coloured jellies, angelica, crystallised fruit, or whatever may be according to taste or at hand. Sprinkle over some fine sugar, and put into a moderate oven for twenty minutes or so to finish. German Style.—(1) Prepare what is called a half-brioche paste of lib. of flour, foz. of German yeast previously made into a sponge, 4oz. of butter, 2oz. of sugar, four eggs well beaten, and the grated peel of one lemon. Let the paste be stiff, then roll it out into a round flat, and make an inch- high border of puff paste. Fill up with Apples, previously pared, cored, quartered, and each quarter cut into three pieces. Put brown sugar over the top, and a few well-washed currants. Bake over a round, flat baking-tin, and when done dredge over with caster sugar. (2) Work 6oz. of fresh butter into fib. of fine flour mixed with loz. of sugar, and make this into a stiff short- paste with water. Roll out into a round about lOin. to 12in. diameter, and make a border lin. wide of puff paste. Prick the short-paste all about with the point of a knife to prevent its blistering, and bake crisp. Peel and core about eight large cooking Apples, and cut each into twelve wedge- shaped pieces. Make a syrup by boiling lib. of sugar in 1 pint of water, and whilst still hot put the Apples in to blanch, with six cloves. Do not boil them, but allow them to remain until soft without falling. Spread some Apple or apricot marmalade over the short-crust, and arrange the Apple slices closely in the form of a star. Strew over a few well-washed currants which have previously been boiled up, dredge sugar all over, and serve. Westphalian Style.—Peel and mince about fifteen good Apples, and fry them quickly with butter, but so as to get them soft without breaking. Thicken the Apples with 4 table- spoonfuls of apricot marmalade, put them into a flat dish, and smooth nicely. Work up fib. of butter with a spoon until creamy; then add to this, one by one, the yolks of four or five eggs, and fib. of grated breadcrumb, or fine biscuit- powder passed through a sieve. Next add, and stir in thoroughly, 6oz. of powdered white sugar flavoured with vanilla. With this cream mask over the Apples smoothly with a knife, sift over a little sugar, and put the dish into a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. Apple Tart and Custard.—Put a border of rich puff paste round a pie-dish, and put in 21b. of Apples, pared, cored, and cut into thin slices; sprinkle over 4oz. of sugar, and grate over the rind of half a lemon. Mix 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice in a little water, pour it over the Apples and F & G 2