157 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Blanc-mange—continued. it to freeze. After an hour or so take out the mould carefully from the pail, wipe off the ice with a towel, and have ready a cold dessert-dish with a folded napkin over it. Turn out the Blanc-mange into this, decorate the surface with candied cherries and angelica, and it is ready for the table. Blanc-mange Powders are offered for sale in packets. They are made of some preparation of starch, and are pro- nounced good and inexpensive. Dutch Blanc-mange.—Put loz. of gelatine in 1 pint of hot water, and when it has dissolved, strain it through a jelly- bag till clear. Mix in it the grated peel of a large lemon, squeeze in the juice, taking care to keep back the pips, add £ pint of sherry, and caster sugar to taste. Put the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till on the point of boiling; then move it off at once before it can curdle, mix in the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and stir until nearly cold. Turn the Blanc-mange into a quart mould, and leave it till set. When ready to serve, turn it out of the mould on to a fancy or glass dish. Parisian Blanc-mange.—Put J teacupful of orange-per- fumed, sweetened almond-milk into a pan with six leaves of dissolved gelatine, and stir well on the ice until the mixture thickens ; then add 2 wineglassfuls of whipped cream, turn the whole into a mould packed in ice, and let it remain for an hour. Turn the Blanc-mange out on to a napkin folded on a dish, and serve. Ribbon Blanc-mange. — Prepare lqt. of Blanc-mange, divide it into four equal parts, colour one part green by adding prepared spinach-juice, another with cochineal, another with boiled chocolate, and the last with a little saffron; or colour it by adding the well-beaten yolks of two or three eggs, a few table-spoonfuls of milk, and stirring over the fire until it is of the consistence of the other parts. All these should be poured while warm into oiled moulds about lin. deep, and cooled. Pack a mould in ice, put in a layer first of one colour and then of another, and continue in this way until the mould is full, or all the Blanc-mange used up. Let it thoroughly set, turn it out on a dish when required, and serve. It has a very pretty effect. Spanish Blanc-mange.—Mix Coz. of caster sugar and 2oz. of lemon sugar with 1 pint of cream; add J pint of water and the juice of a lemon, and stir the mixture till the sugar has dissolved; then stir in another pint of cream. Dissolve l|oz. of isinglass in 1 teacupful of warm water, then mix it with the other ingredients, and stir the whole over the fire till warm. Pour the Blanc-mange into a mould, and set it in a cool place till quite firm. BLANQUETTE. —This is the French term for a common white sparkling wine made in Languedoc. It is also used to denote a sort of very sparkling white beer—a kind of lager. In cookery it is applied to a white stew of white meats, garnished with mushrooms, morels, or truffles, and answers to our fricassee. See Fowls, Lamb, Ox-palates, Rabbits, Sturgeon, Yeal, &c. BLEAK.—Little fresh-water fish (Fig. 171) of the carp family. They are to be caught in most European rivers, and are considered a delicacy cooked like sprats. No doubt the fry of the Bleak constitute a large pro- portion of the English whitebait, under which circum- stance it obtains a favour amongst epicures that, from Bleak—continued. its tasteless flesh, it would hardly acquire when full grown. There are no special modes of cooking the adult fish prescribed by our cooks, therefore it may be taken for granted that it is but little esteemed. BLIGHXTI.—A pie made with pastry and fish, nicely seasoned; much esteemed amongst the Russians. BLINIS.—Small meal cakes which are eaten in Russia during Lent. They are frequently served with melted butter and caviar. Dubois gives a rather elaborate receipt for their manufacture, which can be rendered more simply thus : Dissolve 2oz. of German yeast in 1 tumblerful of luke- warm milk. Sift lib. of fine flour into a kitclien-basin, and form a hollow or well in the centre, into which pour the diluted yeast. Gradually stir in the flour, and make a light soft batter; cover the basin with a cloth, and set to rise for two hours in a moderately warm part of the kitchen. Beat up three or four yolks of eggs in a basin, and pour on 1 teacupful of lukewarm milk; mix fib- of rice-flour into the risen paste, and dilute it with the eggs and milk. The paste being light and smooth, introduce into it four whipped whites of eggs and 1 tumblerful of whipped cream. Let the paste rise for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Ten minutes before serving, warm a dozen small Blini-moulds, which are of the shape of tartlet-moulds, but larger and higher (they are made in flattened iron-wire); butter these witli the paste-brush dipped in warm butter, and put into each of them a piled table-spoonful of the paste. Lift the moulds by means of a flat spoon, place them in a hot oven, and five minutes afterwards turn them, and moisten them on top with the paste-brush dipped in a little butter. Three or five minutes afterwards take the moulds out of the oven, remove the Blinis, and serve them immediately, with a sauceboatful of melted butter. BLOATERS.—This word takes its origin from the verb blote or blotan, the Anglo-Saxon for “ to kill for sacrifice,” or “ burnt-offering,” and lienee to cure by smoking. The verb to bloat, from which bloater would appear to be derived, is given by etymologists as from to blow, blowed, or blowt—swollen out; but the former suggestion seems to be the more probable. In that case, however, the word should be spelled “ bloter,” and in some old dictionaries it is. Bloaters are smoked herrings, in the preparation of which, for home and foreign consumption, Yarmouth has no rival. The correct way to prepare them is to wash the freshly- caught herrings thoroughly, and then put them for a short time into brine. As they are taken out, the brine should be wiped off them, and then they should be strung through the gills and mouth on long rods, and hung up for a few days to dry, and then put in a smoke-house for a week. Bloater Billets.—Put three or four Bloaters into a stewpan with water, and boil long enough to let the skin peel off easily ; take off the flesh in strips or fillets, and let these be of the same size, and neatly done. Toast some slices of tinned loaf, butter well, cut off the crusts, and cut into strips lengthwise; lay one fillet on each, brush the fillets over with warm butter, dust them lightly with cayenne pepper, and put them in an oven until quite hot. Bloater Paste.—When nicely and carefully made, this forms an excellent breakfast relish, and finds a ready market as a popular favourite. But that which is prepared wholesale for the cheap markets is of a very inferior character, the flesh of the Bloater being frequently mixed up with the flesh of all manner of coarse fish, and refuse. The following is an excellent receipt: Put a dozen large Bloaters into a baking-tin and set in a slow oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour or twenty minutes, or until so far done that the skin can be readily removed and the flesh picked off the bones. They are milder and more readily stripped if baked in water ; but the flesh is not so firm as when dry, and the flavour of the roasted fat is lost. Put the flesh into a mortar little by little, and pound thoroughly, and when in a fine pulp add a small piece of butter, just