TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 98 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dkc., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. (6) Take 4^1b. of thick flank of Beef (Fig. 102, 7) and lOoz. of fat bacon (cut off the rind, and put it aside to scald). Cut the bacon into strips ^in. thick, and sprinkle them with pepper. Lard the Beef in the grain of the meat with these strips, and tie it into a good shape with string. Put it into a stewpan with 1 pint of French white wine, 1 gill of brandy, pints of broth, 1 pint of water, two calf’s feet which have been blanched and boned; also the blanched rind of bacon. Put on the fire, add loz. of salt, then boil, and skim. Now add three whole carrots (about lib.), one onion minced, 2 small pinches of pepper, three cloves, and one faggot of sweet herbs. Put to simmer, in a closed stew- pan, for four-hours-and-a-half, on the stove corner. Try the Beef, and when done, take it out, together with the calf’s feet and carrots. Keep hot till serving. Strain the gravy through a gravy-strainer, take off all the fat, and reduce it one-fourth. IJntie the Beef, put it on a dish, and garnish it round with the calf’s feet, each cut into eight pieces, with the carrots cut to the shape of corks with a vegetable- cutter, and ten glazed onions. Pour the gravy over all, and should there be too much, reserve it for the next day. Taste for seasoning. (7) Cut fib. of salt fat pork into thick strips, and with a larding-needle draw them through a piece of Beef about 61b. in weight, cutting off the upper part of the round. Trim off the ends of the pork if they are showing. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter into a 6qt. stewpan, place it on the fire, and when it is melted add two onions, half a carrot, and the same quantity of a turnip, all chopped fine; stir them well, and let them stew for five minutes. Sift some flour over the meat, and put that in, and when it is brown on one side, turn it over and brown the other; add lqt. of water, stir well, and then another quart of water, a small piece of cinnamon, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, six allspice, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Cover over the pan, remove it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for four hours. Add 1 table- spoonful of lemon-juice and a little more salt and pepper if necessary. Let it simmer for another twenty minutes; then take out the meat, skim off the fat, and put the pan on the fire, where it can boil quickly for from ten to fifteen minutes. Put the meat on a dish, strain the gravy through a sieve over it, and serve with a garnish of potato balls or small button mushrooms. (8) Cut a piece of fat pork into narrow strips, and rub them well in a mixture of chopped onion, fine herbs, salt, pepper, and spices; with these lard a tenderloin of Beef weighing 61b. or 71b. Put a slice or two of pork at the bottom of a saucepan, place the Beef on top, set it over a quick fire, and let it brown all over; half-cover it with consomme, add 1 wineglassful of brandy, cover over the pan, and boil for a few minutes. When the meat is nearly cooked, add two carrots and two turnips cut into pieces, and one small whole onion, and cook until the meat is done. Take it out and put it on a dish, strain the gravy, skim off all the fat, pour it over the Beef, and serve very hot. About four hours in all will be required for cooking. (9) Marseilles Style.—This receipt is given by Dubois, but it is rather more elaborate than useful: Cut from a loin of Beef a piece weighing from 41b. to 61b.; divide it into square pieces of 5oz. or 6oz. each, which interlard with fillets of raw bacon and ham; season with a little salt and pepper, and anoint with a little oil. Chop up lib. of bacon, put it into an earthen stock-pot with lard, melt it on a moderate fire, add to it the squares of meat, and fry them gently for ten or twelve minutes; then moisten with \ bottle of red wine, which let boil on a brisk fire until reduced, giving the pot a jerk from time to time, thus keeping the pieces of meat from adhering to the bottom. The wine being reduced, draw the earthen stock-pot on to some hot ashes, and surround it with them to half its height. Put into it a piece of dry orange-peel, a few whole cloves of garlic, a bunch of parsley tied up with two bay-leaves, and lastly, a pig’s foot, boned, singed, and blanched; or if this be not handy, 1 handful of blanched rinds of pork. Then cover the earthen stock-pot, first with a round piece of paper, and then with a soup-plate half-filled with water. Let the Beef boil for eight hours, being careful to keep the ashes round the pot, adding occasionally a few live embers, in order to have Beef—continued. them always hot, so that the stock may boil without inter- ruption, but very gently. Turn the meat twice. When done, it should be highly flavoured, juicy, and succulent. Place the meat in a deep dish, and surround it with squares of tripe, boiled separately. Skim the fat off the stock, remove all solid ingredients, pour it over the Beef, and serve. A la mode Beef Soup.—Put 51b. of Beef with the bones into a saucepan with 5galls. of water, and boil gently over a slow fire for about six hours. Take out the meat and bones, add twelve cloves and a bay-leaf, and continue to boil until the liquor is reduced to 3galls., which will take from three to four hours. Strain it into another saucepan, skim off all the fat, add an onion, turnip, and carrot, all finely chopped, as well as the Beef minced very fine, and boil for half-an-hour longer. Sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, turn the whole out into a soup-tureen, and serve very hot. Baked Brisket of Beef.—Take all the bones out of 81b. of brisket of Beef (Fig. 102, 13), and make holes in it about lin. apart with the end of a steel. Fill the first with bacon-fat, the second with parsley, the third with oysters, and so on until all are filled ; also add to the above, pepper, nutmeg, and cloves. When completely stuffed, lay it in a pan, dredge it with flour, pour on it | pint of water and the same of broth, and bake it three hours; then skim off the fat, put the meat into a dish, strain the gravy over, and garnish with any sort of pickles. Any piece of fresh meat may be dressed in this way, or baked before the fire in a Dutch oven with onions, the meat being frequently brushed over with oil. Baked Fillet of Beef with Truffles.—Trim a good fillet of Beef (Fig. 106), stud its surface with truffles by making holes Fig. 106. Beef-steak Fillet, Studded with Truffles, Prepared for Baking. and sticking pieces of truffle in the holes, cover it with strips of bacon, and set it on a narrow baking-sheet with upturned rim, the bottom of which is masked with trimmings of bacon and vegetables, as well as sweet herbs ; moisten it with 1 wineglassful of wine, then bake in a slack oven for nearly an hour, basting it repeatedly. Take the fillet out of the oven, drain it well, dish it, and surround it with a garnish com- posed of larded sweetbreads, marrow, and farced onions. These garnishes should be dished round the fillet in groups. Mask the fillet with brown sauce finished with 1 pinch of cayenne pepper ; mask the marrow with a little white sauce; glaze the sweetbreads and onions, and serve with rich brown sauce. Baked Larded Fillet of Beef.—Trim off the tough skin and uneatable parts from a short fillet of Beef (Fig. 134) weighing about 31b., dust it well with salt and pepper, flour it well, fasten it into shape with skewers, and lard it in two rows with strips of fat pork. Put it into a baking-pan, without any liquor, and bake for thirty minutes or so. It should bo first placed in the coolest part of the oven for ten minutes, and then in the hottest for the remainder of the time. When done, put it on a dish, pour round Hollandaiso or tomato sauce, or mushroom ketchup, and serve. A true fillet of Beef is the tenderloin; but a rib, boned and rolled, is also called a fillet. Baked Larded Fillet of Beef, with Chateaubriand Sauce. —Take a Beef-fillet, kept hung to tenderness, and trim and lard it (Fig. 107). Cover the bottom of a ruasting-pan, or a baking- tin, with chopped Beef-fat and some minced vegetables, and set the fillet upon them. Season with salt, moisten with