43 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Apricots—continued. (2) Dubois puts a little water at the bottom of the dish, instead of butter, as in No. 1. The paste he also makes with yolks of eggs and sugar. Apricot and Pistachio Ice.—Blanch, peel, and pound jib. of pistachio kernels. Boil 1 j pints of milk. Put the yolks of six eggs in a stewpan, with jib. of pounded sugar and the boiled milk. Stir over the fire till the eggs begin to thicken. Let this cool, then add the pounded pistachios and a little green spinach-colouring, and strain the whole through a tammy cloth into a basin. Make 1 pint of Apricot purde (by stewing the fruit until soft and then rubbing it through a sieve), mix with 1 pint of syrup, and strain through a sieve. Freeze the two mixtures separately, and serve them moulded together. Apricot Pudding.—(1) Take two dozen Apricots, divide them, and remove the stones. Put the halves into a stewpan upon the stove, with 6oz. of caster sugar. Pour over them j pint of water, well shake them, and when about half cooked through pour them into a pudding-basin, which has been previously buttered and lined with a good suet paste. Cover the top with the same sort of paste, tie over with a pudding-cloth, plunge into boiling water, and boil for two hours. Remove from the saucepan, untie the cloth, turn out upon a dish, and serve. By running the edge of a small knife round the edge of the basin between it and the pudding, the latter turns out more readily. (2) Careme advises the addition of a few of the blanched kernels of the stones; but as the tinned Apricots (which have no kernels) are more likely to be used, the addition of j teaspoonful of almond flavouring will answer the purpose instead. Apricot Ratafia.—Cut two dozen Apricots into pieces. Take the kernels out of their shells, blanch them, and crush in a mortar. Put all together into a jar, with jib. of fine sugar, eight cloves, a little cinnamon, and lqt. of brandy. Cover up the jar quite closely, and allow the contents to macerate for three weeks, when they may be passed through a tammy filter and bo bottled for use. Peach brandy is made in a similar manner. Apricots with. Rice.—Cut eighteen or twenty Apricots in halves, put them without their stones into a saucepan with sufficient syrup to cover them, and simmer them gently until quite tender. In the meantime, prepare a croustade of rice the size of the dish about to be used, and about 2in. in height. Put a breakfast-cupful of rice into a saucepan with 1 quart of milk, add a stick of vanilla for flavouring, and sufficient sugar to sweeten; set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about an hour. Turn the rice into the croustade placed on the dish, forming it into the shape of a dome, put the halves of Apricots round it in circles, reduce the syrup quickly, pour it over, and serve at once. Apricot Sauce.— Cut a dozen or so Apricots in halves, remove and break the stones, blanch and pound the kernels, and put them with the fruit in a saucepan, with a little water, to prevent them burning. Pour over 1 wineglassful of madeira when the fruit is stewed quite soft, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, and a thickening of flour or arrowroot mixed smooth with water. Pass the sauce through a fine sieve into a sauceboat, and it is ready for use. Apricot Jam and sherry may be substituted for the fresh Apricots and madeira if desired. Apricot Snowballs.—Divide a little more than a breakfast- cupful of boiled rice into six equal parts, and spread each part over a small, wet pudding-cloth placed over a half-pint basin to about a third of an inch in thickness. Cut half-a- dozen Apricots only sufficient to extract the stones, fill the cavities with a little of the cooked rice, place them in the centre of the rice, and draw the cloths gently round until the Apricots are covered with the rice; then tie them round securely and tightly, put them in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam for ten minutes. Take them out, carefully remove the cloths, put them on a dish, pour over a little sweet sauce made from Apricot Syrup, and Berve. Apricot Souffle.—(1) Take one dozen Apricots, divide them, and remove the stones; cook them in a light syrup— lib. of sugar to 1 pint of water—and put them upon a sieve to drain. Make the following custard: jib. of flour, the same amount of butter, the yolks of eight eggs, and jib. of caster Apricots—continued. sugar. Flavour with vanilla and 1 gill of the Apricot Syrup. Stir the whole upon the fire until it boils, then remove it. Cut the Apricots up into small squares, add them and the whites of twelve eggs, whisked up very firm, also about jib. of Almonds, having previously blanched them; mix the whole together carefully. Butter a souffle-tin, put some buttered paper round it, and tie with a string. Put the mixture in the oven, and bake for about one hour and a-quarter. When it has been in the oven one hour, dust it over with caster sugar, and return it to finish baking. When quite done, remove the paper, and put the souffle into a souffle-dish. It should be served immediately it is taken from the oven. (2) Bub through a sieve sufficient halves of tinned Apricots to make 3 gills. Put this puree into a basin, with double its volume of powdered sugar—a part of which may be flavoured with orange. Set the basin on ice, work the pre- paration with a spoon till thickened; then add the white of an egg, not whipped, and continue working the mixture briskly. As soon as the white of one egg is well worked in, add another, and continue to add the whites of eggs up to ten. To insure this souffle turning out light, it must be worked for three-quarters-of-an-hour at least. Pour into a souffle-pan, and bake in a moderately hot oven for about twenty minutes. Apricot Tartlets.—The first step is to decide how many you mean to make, and then if this receipt is carefully carried out, a very beautiful dish will result. Prepare the Apricots by boiling 4oz. of sugar with 1 pint of the juice in which they are preserved in the tins, and if you have not sufficient of this to make 1 pint, you must add water to make up the quantity. Partly cook twelve halves of Apricots in this syrup, and when sufficiently boiled, take them up on a fork, and lay them on a plate. Put another twelve halves in, parboil, and remove as before. Separate the skins from the Apricots, and strain the syrup they were cooked in through a tammy; then boil down to half. Take sufficient good puff paste, and roll it out very thin; fold it double, and cut through twenty-four very narrow strips. Unfold the paste after cutting off the strips, and cut twenty-four sheets to line the tartlet-moulds. Boll the strips cut off between the fingers and the dresser, and then form a sort of cord by twisting two together. Moisten the edges of the tartlet, so that the strips may be soldered on like a ring or framework. Into each mould cast a good pinch of sugar, and upon that lay half an Apricot, kernel-side down. Bake on a baking-sheet in a quick oven, and when the paste at the bottom of the pans looks done, and of a fine yellow colour, take them out of the oven, and pour over each 1 table-spoonful of the syrup. Set half a blanched kernel (if you have any) on each half of the fruit. Apricot Tartlets -with Cream.—A dozen, or any other num- ber, of tartlet-pans are to be lined with sweetened short-paste, and sufficient custard placed in to fill them. Bake these in a slack oven for about twenty-five minutes, and when they have half cooled, mask over the custard with Apricot Marmalade. In each of these tartlets place half an Apricot, peeled, and very slightly cooked in a weak syrup, made by adding sugar to the juice from the tin, and boiling together for a little time. Push back into a slack oven for a short time, and then take them out, and carefully remove the moulds before serving. An ornamentation of halves of crystallised cherries (Fig. 41), dots of meringue, or icing, is an addition, the meringue re- quiring to be set by placing in the oven for a few minutes. Apricot Toast.—Cut a dozen or so Apricots in halves to extract the stones, put them into a saucepan with sufficient syrup to cover them, pour in a wineglassful of wine, set the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Cut two dozen thin rounds of bread a little larger than the Apricots, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a light golden colour. Take them out, drain, put on a dish, place a half of Apricot on each, with the hollow side uppermost, put half a blanched kernel in each, pour over a little of the syrup, and serve with whipped cream poured round.