THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 84 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Bass—continued. and highly seasoned with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Stuff the fish with this mixture, sew or tie it up, put it into a saucepan with only sufficient water or weak stock to prevent it burning or sticking to the pan, place the pan on the fire, and cook until it is done, allowing about six minutes to the pound. Take it out, put it on a dish, squeeze a little lemon-juice over it, and serve. Boiled Bass. — Scale and clean a Basa, wash it well, drain it, put it into a saucepan of warm salted water, and set the saucepan on the fire. As soon as the water boils, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for twenty minutes, by which time the fish should be quite done. Let it remain in the liquor until wanted ; then take it out, drain it, put it on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with boiled potatoes and sprigs of parsley, and serve. Broiled Bass. — (1) Clean a Bass, split it lengthwise in halves, and cut each half again into two or three pieces; sprinkle these over with flour, put em on a gridiron over a clear but slow fire, and broil them very gently, brushing them over continually with butter to prevent them burning. When done, and of a light brown colour, put the pieces of fish on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Small Bass may be broiled whole with their heads on. (2) Another way is to wrap the fish or pieces in buttered or oiled paper, partly broil them, and complete the cooking in the oven. Fried Bass ■with Bacon. — Wash, scale, and carefully clean the fish, cut off the fins with a chop of the knife, and if small cook them as they are; if large, split them length- wise, cut them across into four pieces, and season them well with pepper and salt. Boll them in flour, and let them lie in it until you are ready to cook them, then drop them into a pan of very hot lard, and let them fry until nicely browned. The time will depend upon the size of the pieces. Fry in a separate pan four slices of streaky bacon, one for each piece of fish, and lay a slice of the bacon on each piece of fish. Garnish with parsley, and serve with mashed potatoes. Fried Black Bass. — Scale and clean the required number of Black Bass, if possible selecting fish weighing about lib. each. Boll them well in flour, put them into a frying-pan with hot fat to about half their height, and fry them until done, taking care that a black burnt part does not appear where the thick part of the fish touches the pan. When done, put them on a dish, garnish with potatoes, slices of lemon, and sprigs of fried or plain parsley, and serve. Stewed Stuffed Bass with Mushroom Sauce. — Scale and clean a Bass, wash it well, stuff it with highly-seasoned veal-stuffing, sew it up, put it into a saucepan with loz. of butter, pour over 1 teacupful of water or weak stock, and cook gently over the fire until it is done, being careful not to burn it, and turning it as often as required. When done, put it on a dish, and serve witli mushroom sauce, either in a sauceboat or poured round. BASTING.—It is usual when roasting joints, poultry, and other meat, to haste freely during the process, especially towards the end of the cooking, by pouring the melted fat or gravy over at intervals. The object is to keep the surface moist, which prevents scorching, and diminishes the evaporation of the juices Fig. 92. Basting Ladle. of the meat. For the last ten minutes or so before dishing up, it is advisable to leave the joint unbasted; but poultry and game, when basted with butter, can be continued up to the last moment, Fat joints require less basting than lean ones. A basting ladle is shown at Fig. 92. See Baking, Braising, and Roasting. BATCH.—This is the technical term applied by bakers to the number of loaves of bread which are put in the oven at one time, and as a distinction between them and what is called pan-bread, or bread baked in tins. Thus, one of our authorities writes, “ An oven which is either too hot or too cold will spoil what would otherwise be a good Batch of bread. Pan-bread, or bread baked in tins, needs a greater heat than Batch-bread, as pan-bread dough is of a lighter nature than Batch-bread dough, and consequently requires more heat to keep it up.” See Bread. BATH BUNS.—It would be difficult to trace back to their origin the famous history of these popular buns. In some way or another they owe their existence to the town of Bath, and date back to the time when this once- celebrated watering-place held highest rank under the Fig. 93. Bath Buns. favour and continual presence of royalty. Here were congregated the beaux and belles of court and fashion- able life, who not only dipped their sweet lips in the waters of the pump-room, but partook of an occasional bun. But to whom the credit is due of the invention of Bath Buns it is impossible to say, there being, as there mostly are in such cases, more than one claimant to the honour. Anyhow, there are but few examples of fancy pastry which have maintained unflagging for so many years the reputation they have gained at the bands of fashion. (1) Take 5oz. of sugar, 5oz. of butter, lloz. of flour, two eggs, lj gills of milk, 1 loz. of carbonate of soda, 1 pinch of nutmeg, and some chopped candied citron-peel. Warm 5oz. of butter, and pour it into a basin, and work it up with a spoon till it creams; then stir into it two eggs one by one, lfoz. of carbonate of soda, 5oz. of sugar, lib. of flour, 1i- gills of milk by degrees, and 1 pinch of powdered nutmeg, working the preparation with the spoon. The paste must be of just sufficient stiffness to maintain itself without spreading when raised up. Take it up with a table-spoon in equal pieces of the size of a nut; range these pieces at a little distance from one another on a baking-sheet, and place on each of them a little slice of candied citron, two or three caraway comfits, and a sprinkle of fine sugar. Bake the buns in a slack oven. (2) Put in a bowl lib. of fine flour, 1 teaspoonful of yeast, and |lb. of caster sugar. Dissolve |lb. of butter in 1 tea- cupful of cream; beat up three eggs, and add. Knead all well together, then let it rise. When light, roll out and shape the buns, place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a hot oven. (3) Prepare lib. of brioche paste as follows: lib. of flour, lOoz. of butter, Joz. of German yeast, 1 teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, and about seven eggs. Put one-fourth of the flour on the slab, spread it out so as to form a well in the centre, put in the yeast, and dissolve it with a little tepid water. When this is effected, add enough water to mix the whole into a rather soft paste. Knead this into the form of a round ball, put it into a stewpan capable of holding three times the quantity, score it all round with a knife, put the lid on, and set it to rise in a rather warm place. In the winter