THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 235 Cakes—continued. them and all the other ingredients with the sponge. Add a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Thickly butter the interior of two or three earthenware moulds, put the mixture into them and stand them in front of the fire for half-an-hour, for the mixture to rise again. Bake the Cakes in a good oven. While the Cakes are cooking, boil fib. of sugar with a very small quantity of water, and flavour it with cinnamon or orange-flower water. When cooked, take the Cakes out of the oven, and while they are hot, prick holes in them with a sharp-pointed knife, and pour in the clarified sugar. Ornament the top of the Cake with sugar-plums. Dutch Cakes.—Make lib. of flour and fib. of butter into a puff paste ; turn it six times, and when set roll it out to the thickness of Jin. Cut it into rounds about 2Jin. in diametef with a tin cutter. Spread some powdered sugar on a table or board, and take up each round of paste and dip one side in flour and the other in sugar. Place them on the table with the floured side down. Boll each one out again till 4in. in length. Place them on a baking-dish with the floured side down at a little distance from one another, and bake in a moderate oven until they are of a nice golden colour. These Cakes are very nice for tea. Elberfield Cake (German).—Dissolve 2oz. of yeast in J pint of warm milk; mix in five well-beaten eggs and lib. of flour, sifting the flour in gradually; work the mixture until smooth, then set it in a warm place to rise, with a cloth over it. When the dough has sufficiently risen, mix with it fib. of warmed butter, about 4oz. of sugar, and nearly lib. of sifted flour. Knead the dough well, then roll it out about Jin. thick on a floured table. Pour hot water over fib. of currants, wash and dry well, then spread them over the dough with fib. of moist sugar, and dust over a moderate quantity of powdered cinnamon. Boll the dough up care- fully lengthwise, then twist it round in the form of a ring Fig. 266. Elberfield Cake. or liorse-slioe (see Fig. 266), and place it on a buttered baking-tin. When cooked, the Cake should be lightly browned; place it on a hot dish, and serve. Election Cake.—(1) Sift 2Jlb. of flour into one basin and lib. into another. Stir 2 table-spoonfuls of molasses into If pints of yeast, add 1 teacupful of warm water, and gradually work in the lib. of flour ; cover over with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise for two hours. Put 21b. each of butter and sugar into a basin and work them to a cream, add 1 table-spoonful each of powdered cinnamon and ground mace, and J pint of milk. Add to them the 2Jlb. of flour, the milk mixture, and fourteen eggs beaten until thick, mixing in about one-third of each at a time, and work it into a light dough. When the sponge is ready, add it also, mix lightly, pour it all into a buttered pan, and bake in a moderate oven. It should be eaten while quite fresh. (2) Mix fib. of butter, lib. of sugar, 4qts. of flour, lib. of currants, four eggs, and J pint of fresh yeast well together, and add a little milk to moisten it; then put in a warm place to rise. When risen to twice its original bulk, put it into greased tins, and bake. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Cakes—continued. Elizabeth. Cake.—Prepare a batter with 1 breakfast cupful of butter, 3 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, four eggs, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, J tea- spoonful of cream of tartar, and 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour. Turn the preparation into a mould, bake it in a moderate oven, and serve either hot or cold. Family Cake. — Warm Jib. of butter, put it into a warmed pan, and mix with it Jib. of moist sugar, lib. of molasses, two eggs, and 1 breakfast-cupful of sour milk ; mix together also 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with 4 large breakfast- cupfuls of flour, put it into the pan, and beat well. Take lib. of stoned raisins and lib. of washed and dried currants, flour them, and stir in with the other. Put in a greased round tin (see Fig. 267), and bake until done. Feather Cake.—Take 2oz. of butter, put it in a warm basin, and rub it up well with a wooden spoon until it is like cream; then add gradually Jib. of caster sugar. Take the yolks of two eggs and another Jib. of sugar, beat them well together until very light, and add to the butter. Put in 1 small salt- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, J teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and the same of vanilla or lemon essence, and J salt- spoonful of mace. Beat up the whites of the two eggs until they are stiff, let them stand a little while, add to the mixture a little milk and flour alternately, and then put in the whites of the eggs. Make this into a loaf shape, and put it in a pan. Bake until the loaf shrinks from the pan, and when done it should be turned out. Federal Cake.'—Mix well together lib. of sugar, 1J breakfast- cupfuls of butter, 3 pints of flour, four eggs, 2 wineglassfuls each of milk, wine, and brandy, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, J teaspoonful of powdered carbonate of ammonia, and fruit and spice to taste. Bake in deep greased tins; the time of baking depending upon the quantity of fruit in the Cake. Flame Cake.—(1) Beat the yolks of ten eggs with Jib. of caster sugar for twenty minutes. Warm 6oz. of butter, beat it till creamy, then mix with the eggs ; add Jib. of the best white flour and the grated peel and juice of one lemon. Whisk the whites of the ten eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in at the last, when the other ingredients have been well worked together. Butter a shallow Cake-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Take the Cake out of the tin when cooked, and leave it until the following day. When ready to serve, put it on a dish, soak it in brandy, set fire to it, and serve it immediately. (2) Cut some sponge Cake or Cakes into slices, soak them in brandy, and pile together. Before taking to table, light the brandy. Flannel Cakes.-—Mix six well-beaten eggs, 21b. of flour, J teacupful of fresh yeast, and a little salt, with sufficient milk to make a thick batter, and set it to rise. Bake in small greased tins. Flat Cake.—(1) Bub lOoz. of butter into lib. of flour; when quite smooth make a hole in the centre and put in 1 tabic- spoonful of sugar, J saltspoonful of salt, two beaten eggs, and J pint of cream. Mix these ingredients together, and then pour in another J pint of cream. Place the paste in a basin, put a cloth over it, and set in a warm place to rise for one hour; at the end of that time flour the paste-board and roll the paste on it, making it about 2in. thick and quite round; put the Cake on a baking-sheet, score the edges, mark it tastefully on the top, egg it over, and tie a strip of buttered paper round it to keep it from spreading; bake it for one hour. When cooked, take the Cake out of the oven, but leave it on the baking-dish, and put a plate on the top with a 21b. weight on it. When cold, take the paper off the Cake, put the Cake on a dish, and serve; or the paste can be divided into smaller portions and baked, and served hot with butter or jam. (2) Sift Jib. of flour on a paste-board, and rub into it |lb. of butter. Blanch and pound Jib. of sweet almonds and eight see under their specialS' heads. Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, Fig. 267. Round Cake-tin (Mathews and Son).