130 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Beer—continued. starch, corn meal, rye malt, oats, and other things, such as gentian, quassia, or wormwood, as bitter substitutes for hops. The law is, however, now very stringent against sub- stitutions or “ adulterations,” even to the adding of sugar or molasses; and very properly so, seeing to what an extent adulteration has been carried on. Cooley states that “ It is a well-known and authenticated fact, that Beer is commonly, and sometimes dangerously, adul- terated. The cupidity of fraudulent brewers and pub- licans frequently induces them to introduce other ingredients than malt and bitters into their liquors, with a view of giving them a false appearance and strength. Thus, to give pungency, capsicum, grains of paradise, ginger, &c., have been added; to give intoxicating pro- perties, opium, cocculus indicus, tobacco, &c.; as a sub- stitute for malt, molasses, treacle, colouring, honey, &c.; to impart a false appearance of age, sulphuric acid, alum, green vitriol, glycerine, mustard, &c.; to remove acidity, pearlash, soda, chalk, &c.; and to impart a frothy head, alum, foots, table-salt, &c. Publicans gene- rally ‘ reduce ’ their strong Beer with water (which they call ‘ liquor ’), and add treacle, together with a mixture of copperas, salt, and alum (termed ‘heading’), to make it bear a frothy head. The cheap Beer sold in many of the low taverns of London is made by dividing the con- tents of two butts between three butts, filling them up with water, and adding a bladder of 1 porter extract ’ (technically termed ‘P.E.’) to each. This ‘ P.E.’ is a mixture of powdered cocculus, Spanish juice, caramel (burnt sugar), capsicum, &c., boiled up with treacle and water to the consistency of a thin extract, and then put into bladders for sale.” Beer is frequently added to broths, jellies, and other dishes as a stimulant, and is used in cooking to give body and flavour to some foods, especially those prepared for fastidious tastes. The following is a simple receipt for brewing good beer at home. The utensils required will be a large copper or boiler, with the usual furnace built under it, two large flat tubs for mashing, and a large barrel standing on end, with a tap near the lower ring, so that the clear liquor can be drawn from the bottom. In addition to these, smaller barrels or bottles will be required for storing. Boil 36galls. of water in the copper boiler for twenty minutes, then damp the fire down with wet ashes. When the steam subsides sufficiently for the surface of the water to be seen, ladle some of the water out and pour it over 1 bushel of malt set in one of the mash-tubs, and continue to do so until there is sufficient to cover the malt. Let this stand for an hour, then cover the wet malt with dry malt, cover over the tub, and let all stand for an hour longer. Next add more water, running off that which has been standing with the malt in it, into the second mash-tub. Pour more water from the copper boiler over the malt, drain off again after standing a short time, and repeat until all the water has passed through the malt. Put the “wort,” as the liquor is now called, into the copper boiler again, reserving 1 pint of warm wort to dissolve some German yeast (unless fresh yeast is available), boil up well with 31b. or 41b. of hops, and leave the Beer to simmer for two or three hours. Then fix a canvas strainer over the top of the large barrel and strain the wort through into it. Put in the yeast, stir up from the bottom to mix it well in, and cover over for the whole to ferment. When the Beer begins to work it will swell up and overflow, but when the working is at an end or has nearly subsided it will go down again, or ebb and flow for a while until fermentation is over. Then fill up the cask with other malt Beer in which at least loz. of fine isinglass has been dissolved. When the cask is full, rouse up with the stick, or stirrer, and when the Beer has settled, bring down, or rack off into smaller casks, taking the precaution to in- sert the tap into the cask sufficiently high to miss the settling at the bottom, so that clear Beer only is drawn off. A very good small-beer may be made from a second mashing of the malt. Beer—continued. Beer Caudle.—Mix some fine oatmeal with good Beer in the place of water ; turn it into a saucepan, and for every quart of gruel put in i teaspoonful of allspice and J teaspoonful of ground ginger. Sweeten it to taste with moist sugar. Stir the gruel over the fire till thick and cooked, then turn it into a bowl or soup-plate, and serve it. Beer Soup with Bread.—(1) Cut five thin slices of bread off a stale loaf, and, after soaking them in warm butter, put them in the oven to brown. When they are done, break them up fine, and pour over them 1 pint each of Beer and port wine, or claret; into this put one large stick of cinnamon, 1 tea- spoonful of cloves, and 1 teacupful of powdered white sugar. Boil up lightly, pass through a strainer into a bowl, and serve with slices of bread fried in butter floating on the top. (2) Put one large stick of cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of cloves, the thin rind of one lemon, and 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar into a large saucepan with 4 pints of good strong ale. Boil up until it is scalding hot, and then strain it into a bowl or tureen containing the yolks of six eggs and 5 pint of cream, and whisk into a foam. Serve with sippets of bread fried in butter, or dry toast. Beer Soup for Cold Weather.— Mix thoroughly into lqt. of table-beer, £ tumblerful of port wine, the yolks of eight eggs, a little powdered cinnamon, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Put this into a saucepan and stand over the fire, stirring well until it begins to boil; then serve in cups or glasses, with sippets of dry toast. Beer Soup with Cream.—To every quart of mild Beer add j pint of cream, 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, 5 teaspoonful of salt, and the same of allspice. Boil up slowly, and then add 1 table-spoonful of flour which has been previously worked smooth in a little of the cream or Beer; boil up again, and as it begins to cool stir in well the yolks of two eggs, also previously diluted in a little of the Beer. Beer made with Tar (fob Consumption).—Whether the concoction possesses the merits claimed for it, or not, is a matter of doubt. Put 3qts. of water in a stone vessel with lqt. of wheat bran, 1 pint of tar, and i pint of honey, and let them simmer by the side of the fire for three hours. At the end of that time move the jar off, and lot the contents cool. When cool, mix 5 pint of brewer’s yeast with the Beer, leave it for thirty-six hours, and it is then ready for use. German Beer Soup.— (1) Put Jib. of butter into a stewpan and melt it slowly, stirring in jib. of flour; fry this for awhile to cook the flour, but do not allow it to colour; then pour in, stirring well, 3qts. of Beer, and when it boils remove it off the fire to the back, and let it stand for half-an- hour. Whilst this mixture is standing, put in a small pan wineglassful of good rum and i wineglassful of sherry or Madeira; add to this a small piece of ginger and a small stick of cinnamon, 3oz. of moist sugar, and the thin rind of half a lemon; cover up, and put into the bain-marie to infuse. Skim off all fat from the soup, and mix up with it the yolks of fifteen eggs diluted with a little water; stir this over the fire, but do not allow it to boil; when heated, pass through a sieve into another pan, aud then stir in jib. of butter added bit by bit. When all the butter is worked in, add the infusion of rum, pass the whole through a strainer, and pour into the soup-tureen. Serve with it some sippets of fried bread. (2) Stolzer Heinrich.—Put half a dozen or so small ham sausages, well tied at the ends, into a stewpan, pour in sufficient ale or Beer to cover them, fix the lid on tightly, and boil gently for half-an-hour. At the end of that time take out the sausages, and boil the liquor until it is reduced to a thick brown sauce, skim the fat off the top, put in 1 wineglassful of red wine, 1 wineglassful of ale, the same of vinegar, 1 teacupful of rich gravy, 1 breakfast-cupful of grated brown bread, 1 teaspoonful of caraway-seeds, the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon, and a lump of sugar ; season highly with salt and pepper, and boil the sauce until thick and smooth, stirring it occasionally. Pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan; put in the sausages, and place over the fire until quite hot again. Turn all into a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve.