TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 141 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Biscuits—continued. oven. Sometimes double iron baking-sheets are used for baking this class of Biscuits. Biscuit Cakes.—Mix to a paste with some thick cream fib. of flour, Jib. of currants washed and dried, and 1 pinch of salt. Knead and roll out about jin. thick, cut into rounds 2in. in diameter, and bake in a brisk oven. They can be made without cream by rolling out some puff paste very thinly, and covering half with moist sugar and currants, doubling- the other half over, cutting into rounds, and baking in a brisk oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Biscuits for Coffee.—Mix a level teaspoonful of baking powder with jib. of flour and 1 table-spoonful of sugar, rub in 4oz. of butter, and make into a stiffish paste by adding one egg beaten up in a little milk. Work well until quite smooth, roll it out thin, cut it into Biscuits 3in. long by ljin. wide, perforate the tops with a fork or docker, put them into a moderately quick oven, and bake to a yellow colour. Take them out when done, and serve cold. Biscuit Jelly.—Break up 4oz. of white Biscuits, such as crackers, and boil in 2qts. of water down to lqt.; strain, and then evaporate down to 1 pint; work into it lib. of powdered loaf sugar, 1 wineglassful of port wine, and 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon-water, the whole to be well mixed. It will set to a jelly, and can be ornamented with fruit or jam. Invalids with delicate or weak digestion relish this. Biscuit Powder.—This is used occasionally instead of bread raspings. It is prepared by drying plain Biscuits thoroughly in an oven, and crushing with a rolling-pin. Biscuit Pudding.—Put five or six large broken Biscuits into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and the grated rind of half a lemon, and boil them. Work the mixture into a smooth paste, and add 3oz. of warmed butter, 2oz. of finely- crushed loaf sugar, 1 table-spoonful of brandy, and four well- beaten eggs. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered basin, tie it over with a cloth, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil for about twenty minutes. Turn it out on to a dish when done, pour over a little wine sauce, and serve. Brighton Biscuits.—(1) Work, by rubbing, Ijlb. of fresh butter into ljlb. of flour, previously mixed with jib. of caster sugar and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 teaspoonful of caraway-seeds, and 20 drops of essence of lemon; mix this into a stiff dough with milk, break, and roll out into thin sheets. Cut these small and dock them, and set on oiled baking-sheets in a quick oven till light brown. (2) Mix lib. of caster sugar with 21b. of best flour, and sift into a pan; rub in 2oz. of butter, and whilst doing so sprinkle in 1 teaspoonful of caraway-seeds. Form a well in the centre of the flour, and pour in 1 pint of milk-and-water with 1 teacupful of honey dissolved in it. Mix into a good dough, but do not work under the Biscuit-break, roll it out thin, cut into small Biscuits, dock, put well apart on a buttered baking-sheet, and hake in a slow oven. Buttered Biscuits.—Bub jib. of butter into 3jlb. of flour till smooth ; then add j pint of yeast, and stir in gradually 1 pint of warm water. Cover the dough, and set it to rise in a warm temperature. When risen to twice its original size, dust a small quantity of flour over the dough, knead it, and let it rise again. Boll the dough out on a floured table to about tin. in thickness, then cut it into Biscuits with a round tin cutter. Butter a baking-sheet, arrange the Biscuits on it a short distance from each other, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in milk, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, take the Biscuits off the baking-sheet, leave them till cool, then put in tins till ready to use. Captains’ Biscuits.—(1) Bub Jib. of butter into 71b. of fine sifted flour, and make into a dough with lqt. of water or milk, or a little more if required, taking every precaution to keep the dough as dry as consistent with adhesiveness. Break thoroughly, and roll out pieces of 4oz. each to 4jin. in diameter; dock these, and lay them with their faces to- gether. When the oven is ready, lay them on a baking-sheet, and bake quickly to a light brown. (2) Into lib. of fine pastry flour work 2oz. of fresh butter and 1 pinch of salt. Make a well in the flour, and stir into it sufficient milk-and-water to make a stiff dough. When thoroughly worked up, let it stand for two or three Biscuits—continued. hours ; then break, smooth with either of the Biscuit-breaks previously described, and divide the dough into ten equal parts. Work each piece lightly into balls, roll these out with a bulging rolling-pin so that the centre may be a trifle thinner than the outside edge, dock on both sides, and bake on baking-sheets in a quick oven. Captains’ Biscuits may bo made thin by using about loz. of paste for each, and rolling thin. Champagne Biscuits.—(1) These are so-called because they are very nice served with that wine. Take 21b. of flour and loz. of caraway-seeds; beat up twelve eggs and add by degrees lib. of caster sugar, continuing the beating until they form a thick paste ; warm lib. of butter and beat it to a cream, so that when the sugar and eggs have thickened the butter may be in a fit condition to be worked in with them; then add, by degrees, 21b. of fine sifted flour and loz. of caraway-seeds. Lay the Biscuits on greased paper which has been crinkled, set them with the papers into small tin moulds, and bake in a hot oven. (2) Put jib. of fresh butter into a round-bottomed basin, warm it slightly, and beat with a wooden spoon into a cream ; add gradually jib. of caster sugar, continue beating thoroughly, and add little by little three eggs. When all are quite in- corporated, stir in lightly Goz. of fine pastry white flour, a sprinkling of caraway-seeds, and put this mixture into a Biscuit-bag (see Fig. 153), by which it can be forced into the Vandykes of a vandyke-tin, and then bake. A vandyke-tin is one that has several V'shaPe|l grooves in it, thus: nv~v—v—'y~\ Into these grooves sufficient of the paste to make a Biscuit Tig 161. Champagne is forced from the Biscuit- iscuits. bag, and then baked. When removed the Biscuits will be shaped something like the quarter of an orange (see Fig. 161). Chesterfield Biscuits.—Put the yolks of six eggs into a kitchen basin with jib. of caster sugar and 15 drops of essence of lemon, and beat well with a spoon until the mix- ture thickens. Beat up the whites thoroughly, and stir into the other mixture; next stir in jib. of sifted flour, and make the whole into a thin paste. Put this into a Biscuit-bag (see Fig. 153) and lay out on papered vandyke-tins—three in a row. Scatter a few caraway-seeds over the top of each, and bake in a hot oven. Common Biscuits.—Bub jib. of butter into jib. of flour and jib. of caster sugar, and mix up with two eggs. Work up thoroughly, and then roll small pieces into balls; flatten these with the hands, prick with a fork or docker, and set upon a baking-sheet in a moderate oven until brown. Date-shaped Biscuits.—Sift lib. of the best white flour on to a paste-board, and make a hole in the centre, in which put 1 teaspoonful of salt, 4oz. of warmed butter, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda that has been dissolved in a small quantity of water. Mix the above ingredients with the hands until quite smooth, then stir in sufficient water to make a soft, flexible paste. Boll the paste out with ihe hands as far as it will extend, making it a little thicker than the thumb; then cut it into pieces the shape and size of dates, and roll these on a piece of basket-work to give them the impression of dates. Put about 4oz. of butter in a frying- pan, and when it is hot put in the pieces of paste and fry them till delicately coloured; then drain them and put them into a saucepan of boiling syrup, which should be standing near the fire, and leave them for seven or eight minutes. Arrange them tastefully in groups on a hot dish, dust a little powdered cinnamon over them, and serve. Digestive Biscuits.— (1) Bub 2jlb. of butter into 61b. of flour, make a hollow in the centre, pour in 5qts. of water and milk in equal proportions, and 2oz. of German yeast, addino- sufficient flour to form the whole into a dough; break it a little, and set it to rise, or prove, in a warm place. When it is sufficiently light, break it until it is smooth and clear, then roll it out to about jin. thick, cut it into rounds with a Biscuit-cutter, and bake these in a hot oven until done.