176 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Brandade—continued. fish, put it on a strainer to drain, take off the skin, and remove the bone very carefully. Put the fish into another pan, and stir it sharply for a few minutes over the fire, adding gradually a little olive oil. Then take it off the fire, and with a spoon work it into a smooth paste. Put in a little double cream, with a small quantity of garlic (pounded), season to taste, and mix all together thoroughly. Then pile the Brandade on a dish, and surround it with croutons of fried bread. The fish to be used for this should not have been long in salt, or it will neither mix well nor work smoothly. BBAWBY (Fr. Eau-de-vie; Ger. Branntwein; Hal. Acquavite; Sp. Aguardiente).—This spirit is a great ac- quisition to the cook, and finds its way into many a sweet or savoury dish; hut as a spirit by that name can he purchased cheaper than the genuine “cognac,” the probability is that it . would be considered by many to he good enough for cooking. Genuine Brandy is dis- tilled direct from wine, the better kinds from French white wines, but the inferior qualities from dark-red Spanish and Portuguese wines, and a still lower class from the refuse of the wine-press, known to the distiller as eau-de-vie de marc. In England we have a British Brandy distilled from no fruit at all, but merely con- cocted from different, and often indifferent, ingredients by the “rectifying distiller.” A pure Brandy should be clear and sparkling, of a light colour when new, yellow if a few years old, and brownish-yellow if very old; its flavour should be sweet, mellow, slightly vinous, and not in any degree fiery from raw alcohol. Brandies of an inferior or “ concocted ” character are harsh and hot, leaving an unpleasant after- taste. Spoil, in his “ Encyclopaedia,” gives the following as the order of merit for French Brandies: 1. Cognac fine champagne. 2. „ champagne. 3. „ petite champagno. 4. ,, premier bois. 5. „ deuxitme bois. 6. „ Saintonge. 7. „ Saint Jean d’Angely. 8. „ Bas-Armagnac. * 9. Eau-de-vie de Tenartze. 10. Cognac (Surgtres). 11. Eau-de-vie Haut-Armagnac. 12. Rochelle aigre feuille. 13. Rochelle. 14. Marmande. 15. Pays (Marmande). 16. Trois-six Languedoc. Unfortunately, Brandies Sre much subject to adultera- tion, so that it is not unusual to find those kinds prepared for the British markets of a very inferior character indeed, although sold under the distinguished title of “cognac.” As Brandy improves by age, and darkens as it grows older, a variety of obnoxious colour- ing agents are employed to give new Brandies the appearance of age, and perhaps the least harmful of these is burnt sugar. An expert in Brandy will detect good from bad, or old from new, by rubbing a little on the palms of his hands, allowing the spirit to evaporate, and then inhaling through the nose the odours of the residue. Pure Brandy will exhale the odour of the wine from which it is made—as of sherry, and some of the flavour is retained, however old the Brandy may be. Tu consequence of the numerous adulterations and doc- torings to which Brandies have been subjected by dealers of pretended integrity upon the Continent and at home, the British public have habituated themselves to the use of those specially bottled and guaranteed by certain firms, such as Martell and Hennessy; and then- qualities are in each case distinguished as “ one star,” “ two star,” and “ three star ” Brandies, the latter being the strongest and oldest. Brandy—continued. The following are a few of the preparations in which the Brandy flavour takes an active part: Brandy Bitters.—Take 21b. of dry orange-peel, lib. of car- damom-seeds, 31b. of gentian root, 2oz. of cochineal, and 2oz. of cinnamon, and grind to a coarse powder. Pour over them lgall. of Brandy and 8galls. of water, leave for ten days, and then filter. Brandy Butter.—Beat to a cream equal parts by weight of caster sugar and butter, and add to every pound 1 wineglassful or more each of Brandy and sherry, beating all the time; or the sherry may be omitted. Sometimes this is iced before placing on the table. Reference will be made to this preparation occasionally; it is a favourite with some cooks. Brandy Butter-sauce for Sweets.—Beat to a cream 1 tea- cupful of caster sugar and half the quantity of butter, add 1 table-spoonful of Brandy and a little essence of nutmeg, set it on the ice, and use as required. The whites of two eggs may be whisked in with the above, but it is not to be recommended. Brandy Cordial.—Mix lqt. of water with 6qts. of Brandy, add the peel of seven-and-a-half lemons, 2oz. of bruised coriander- seeds, and i table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, infuse for eight days, and then distill. Dissolve lflb. of loaf sugar in 3qts. of water, mix it with the cordial, and then filter and bottle it. Brandy Cream.—Blanch and pound two dozen each of sweet and bitter almonds, put them into a saucepan with a few table-spoonfu's of milk, and boil them. Lot the mixture cool, then add the yolks of five eggs beaten up with 1 table- spoonful of cream, 3oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, and pour in 2 wineglassfuls of Brandy. Mix well, pour in lqt. of cream, stir well one way on the side of the lire until the mixture thickens, then pour it into small glasses or cups, and serve. Brandy Flavourings.—(1) Put into jgall. of proof spirit loz. of green oil of cognac, and cork tightly; shake occasionally for three days, and then add 2oz. of sesquicarbonate of ammonia powdered. Let it stand three days longer, and then pour it into a 3gall. wide-mouthed stone jar, dropping in 21b. of mashed prunes with the kernels broken, and lib. of fine black tea. Next pour in lgall. of spirit at 20 over proof, cover well, and let it stand for eight days; then filter, and mix with the oil and ammonia spirit. Bottle for use, and cork well. (2) Pound up 121b. of prunes (cracking kernels as well), 251b. of raisins, lib. of sliced pine-apple, and 61b. of figs. Put them in a large jar, and pour over them 20galls. of proof spirit. Let them remain to macerate for fourteen or fifteen days, stirring occasionally; then pour off, strain, press the fruit, and filter. Brandy G-ruel.—Put the thinly-peeled rind of half a lemon in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of loaf sugar (about five lumps) and 1 teacupful of milk, and boil them. Mix 1 dessert-spoonful of fine oatmeal in 1 teacupful of cold milk, and when quite smooth, pour it into the boiling milk; season with 1 saltspoonful of salt, stir the gruel over the fire, and let it boil between five and ten minutes. When cooked, turn the gruel into a basin, remove the lemon-peel, and mix with it a piece of butter about the size of a Spanish nut, and 1| wineglassfuls of Brandy. Serve while hot. Brandy Jelly.— Put lqt. of cold water into a saucepan with £lb. of sugar and 2oz. of gelatine in small pieces, and grate in the rind of a medium-sized lemon, squeezing in the juice as well. Mix well, and place the saucepan on the hot stove. Beat up in a basin the whites of two eggs, add them to the other ingredients, and grate 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, adding six cloves and one bay-leaf, and mixing well the while for one minute. Have ready a jelly-bag, and tie it on a jelly- stand—or two kitchen chairs, one inverted on the other, will answer the purpose. Stir the preparation, and when it is coming to the boil, set it back to a cooler part of the stove to prevent it overflowing, and continue to stir while boiling for six minutes. Place a vessel under the jelly-bag, remove the pan from the fire, and pour the whole of its contents into the bag, repeating the straining until the jelly