THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 154 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Slack-Diver—continued. but as a stray specimen may be obtainable now and again, the following receipts will not be without interest. Black-Diver -with Chocolate Sauce.—Pick and draw a Black-Diver, dry it well on a cloth, and rub it well with brandy. Brown it over a slow fire, put it into an earthen- ware jar, with a few laurel-leaves, fine herbs, salt, and suffi- cient white wine to moisten, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until the bird is done. Put it on a dish, pour over chocolate-flavoured sauce, and serve. Salmis of Black-Diver.—Pluck, draw, and clean a Black- Diver, put it on a spit in front of a clear fire, roast it until it is nearly done, and cut it up into pieces. Put into a saucepan a few trimmings of truffles, warm them in butter, mix in a little flour and white wine, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a head of garlic, and a few laurel-leaves. Cook gently for five or six minutes, pour in some vegetable stock or broth, and add a few stoned olives and blanched sticks of celery. When all these are thoroughly cooked, put in the pieces of bird, simmer gently on the side of the fire until they are done. Put on a dish, place the celery and olives round, pour over the sauce through a strainer, and serve. BLACKFISH (Centrolophus paupilus).— This very scarce fish is caught in deep water, in the Mediterranean Sea, off the western coast of Europe, and occasionally along the southern coast of Great Britain. It some- times measures 30in. in length, and weighs from 51b. to 141b. Its skin is tough and black, and can be stripped off like an eel’s. By epicures Blackfisli is considered a great delicacy, the flesh being exquisitely white and tender. When boiled whole it is usually served hand- somely garnished, and with a l’ich brown sauce. There are several species known, some closely related to the tench, and others to the dolphin or whale. Fried Blackfisli. — Clean the fish by putting it into cold water after it is scaled, and rubbing it thoroughly with a handful of salt; draw the intestines from the gills, and then again wash the fish in cold water. Have ready a frying-pan half-full of fat over the fire, and a plateful of corn-meal seasoned with salt and pepper. Cut the fish across in slices about lin. thick, and trim off the fins and tail; roll the slices in the meal, and then fry them brown in the hot fat. When the fish is done, take it out of the fat with a skimmer, lay it on brown paper for a moment to free it from grease, and serve hot. A lemon, cut in quarters, makes a good garnish. Stewed Blackfisli.—Draw and clean the fish. Prepare a stuff- ing of finely-minced pork, onions, and breadcrumbs; season with salt and pepper, and stuff the fish with it. Lay the fish in a fish-kettle, cover it with hot water, put on the lid, and stew slowly for three hours. Make a rich meat gravy with claret, thickening it with scorched flour and seasoning it with salt, pepper, cloves, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. When the fish is cooked, take it carefully out of the fish-kettle, drain it, lay it on a hot dish, strain the gravy over, and serve. BLACK JACKS.—Leathern drinking-cups with silver rims; once greatly in vogue, but only met with now as curiosities. BLACK PUDDINGS (Fr. Boudins noirs; Ger. Blut- wursten; It. Sanguinaccioni; Sp. Morcillas). — These nondescript sort of sausages are made chiefly from pig’s or sheep’s blood and suet. They are much relished in Scotland, are known in various parts of the country as black-pot, and are universal favourites amongst the labouring classes. Hudibras alludes to them thus: And fat Black Puddings—proper food For warriors, who delight in blood. Several receipts are to be met with for their manufac- ture, some of which are more suitable for wholesale purposes than domestic use. (1) First of all obtain a supply of large pig’s entrails; thoroughly cleanse them in hot water, and then leave them to soak in cold. As it is imperative that the blood shall be used freshly drawn, the day for making these puddings should Black Puddings—continued. certainly be the same upon which the animal is slaughtered. Mince up very small 51b. of onions, and stew them in a little water, stirring continually until they are nearly cooked and ready to fall, and then mince up as finely as possible. Chop up in a mincing machine or on a board 41b. of fresh pork without bone, and plenty of fat—the flank answers admir- ably. Mix this with the onions, add plenty of pepper and salt to season, and ground allspice; stir together in a large crock, and pour upon it, still stirring, about lqt. of warm pig’s blood. Cut the entrails that have been soaking into lengths of about £yd.; tie up one end and insert a large funnel in the other, through which the skin must be lightly filled, passing each mass through the funnel down to the end of the skin. When full, close this end also, and then divide into puddings by pinching the desired length between the fingers and thumbs and twisting the two pieces in different directions; tie the two ends together to make a sort cf coil, throw them into boiling water, and let it continue boiling for about half-an-hour. Take them out, and let them be kept in a cool place. Black Puddings made in this way are usually boiled, or they may be simply toasted before the fire. (2) Well wash and boil fib. of sound rice, and let it thoroughly drain. Cut all the crust off a quartern-loaf, break it up and put it into a crock or large pan, and pour over it 2qts. of warm new milk. Add to the rice foz. each of grated nutmeg, ground allspice, and ground ginger, lib. of finely-chopped partially cooked onions, 1 teaspoonful of finely-minced thyme, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 1 teaspoonful of black pepper, and i teaspoonful of ground or pounded cloves, and work in at the same time 21b. of finely-minced suet and six well-beaten eggs. When the bread has absorbed as much milk as it will hold, pour off what remains unabsorbed and add the rice mixture to the bread, beating up well together, and 21b. of the inner fat of the pig chopped into small dice. When all these are sufficiently mixed, work in 2qts. of liquid pig’s blood, put into sausage skins, and treat as described in No. 1, boiling for an hour. Before serving, they should be soaked in boiling water, and then toasted before the fire. (3) In some parts of France these puddings are made by the working classes, the receipt employed being as follows, with slight variations according to localities, tastes, and circumstances: The blood is drawn off and stirred con- tinuously to prevent clotting, and a little vinegar added to assist in the same purpose. It is then seasoned with onions thoroughly minced and partially cooked by stewing in lard— lib. to a quart of blood ; also to the same quantity 1 tea- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, with salt, pepper, and ground allspice to taste. Stir in £lb. of inner pork-fat cut into small dice. With this mixture the skin may be filled by passing through a funnel as described in No. 1, and tied or twisted into lengths, and then all thrown into boiling water and kept simmering until quite firm. They may be tested by pricking with a needle—if only fat runs, they are done; but if blood oozes, it is necessary to put them into the hot water again, and keep them boiling for some time longer. When done, before getting quite cold they should be rubbed over with butter to give them a gloss, and tied up in muslin bags to keep. They may be parboiled so as to serve hot, or cut into slices and fried. A flavour of garlic adds greatly to the merit of these puddings in the opinion of many. (4) In Spain the mode of manufacture practised is very complete. The fat that is taken from the inside of the pig is minced up fine and thrown into a vessel with the following seasoning: For every pound of fat, 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, four large onions partly boiled and chopped very fine, and 1 teaspoonful each of powdered cloves and cinnamon. Mix well together, and then add 2qts. of blood slowly, stirring well with a wooden spoon. When the paste is ready, fill the skin with it (as in No. 1), divide, put into lukewarm water, and boil up slowly until the puddings are firm. Some- times finely-chopped fennel is added to the other seasoning. French Black Pudding-.—Blanch and chop about six onions; put 8oz. of chopped pork-fat into a stewpan, melt it, remove the pieces of skin, put the onions in with the melted fat, boil them for a few minutes, and then take them off the fire, leaving them till partly cooled. Trim off the skin from 21b. of pork-fat, and cut the fat into small squares. Strain 2qts. of pig’s blood through a fine hair sieve, and mix it with