THE ENGYGL0PTED1A OF PRAGTTGAL COOKERY. 86 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Batter—continued. and enters in modified forms into the composition of several famous dislies, such as Muffins and Crumpets, Pancakes, Pikelets, Toad-in-the-Hole, Yorkshire Pudding, and others, to which headings special refer- ence may be made. Batter can he used in preparing many dishes in which Cold meats are warmed up again, or rechauffes, as they are styled. A nice mince of any meat, bound together with egg, rolled in slices of cooked bacon, then dipped in Batter, and fried in hot fat, makes a toothsome cromesky. Fish fillets served in the same way and fried are nice, and so are fillets of cold rabbit or chicken. The following receipts, gathered from several sources, are practical and good : Baked Batter Pudding.—Take two eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Put the butter in a basin, beat to a cream before the fire, beat in the eggs, add a little white sugar and a few drops of essence of lemon. Put in the flour and milk, and beat all together. Pour the mixture into a buttered shallow dish, or saucer, and bake in a sharp oven for twenty minutes or so. If cooked in saucers, they should be doubled over when turned out, and sugar placed between and over them. Baked or Boiled Batter Pudding. — A good authority tells us that the great secret of making a light Batter Pudding is that the flour should be mixed thoroughly with water before adding the milk. The yolks and whites of the eggs also should be beaten separately. Take Mb. of fine flour, and work it smooth, pouring in 1 gill of cold water; add by degrees 1 pint of milk, 1 pinch of salt, and the yolks of two eggs. Have a sufficiently large basin, oil it well with butter, and when ready to receive the pudding, beat up the whites of the eggs to a froth, and stir them into the Batter. Pour into the basin, cover with a cloth tied tight, and boil for an-liour-and-a- quarter. If preferred, this pudding can be baked, and then 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder stirred in quickly just before baking will make it nice and light. Or put loz. of butter, lard, or clarified beef-suet into a tart-dish or baking- tin, and let it get very hot; then put in the Batter, and bake sharply for forty minutes or so. Baked Batter Pudding with Pruit.—One pint of milk, 2 piled breakfast-cupfuls of flour, four eggs, 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 pint of fruit, pared and quartered (apples, apricots, or peaches are best). Beat the eggs well with a spoon, and add the milk to them. Add this mixture by degrees to the flour, and beat to a light smooth Batter. Sprinkle in the fruit, and pour into a greased baking-dish. Bake for half-an-hour, and serve very hot with a good wine or sweet sauce. Baked Batter Pudding with. Marmalade.—Make a Batter of two eggs, 1 pint of milk, 6 table-spoonfuls of flour, and 1 pinch of salt. Line a pie-dish with orange marmalade or other preserve, pour the Batter into the dish, bake about forty minutes in a quick oven, turn out, and serve. Minced apples, flavoured with essence of lemon, mixed in the Batter make a very good dish. Batter for Basting. — Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a basin, and mix in two whole eggs and one yolk, 2 dessert- spoonfuls of salad-oil, and a small quantity of salt. Stir in sufficient milk to make a thin paste, and it is ready for use. Hare when about half roasted should be basted with this, and is a great improvement; but the paste must be kept quite thin, or the effect will be lost. Batter Bread.—(1) An American food held in great esteem. Break two eggs into a bowl, and beat to a stiff froth. Pour in 1 teacupful of buttermilk, 1 teacupful of water, 1 tea- cupful of corn-meal, the same quantity of fine flour, \ tea- spoonful of salt, 1 heaped teaspoonful of butter melted before the fire, and beat all well together. Have eight or ten muffin-moulds already heated on a baking-sheet. Grease them well with a piece of rag or paper dipped in lard, fill each one nearly full with the Batter, first sifting and stirring into it \ teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Set in a hot oven, and bake until they assume a light brown Batter—continued. colour. New milk may be used instead of buttermilk-and- water, and then add another egg, but omit the bicarbonate of soda. (2) Take 4 teacupfuls of corn-flour, 2 teacupfuls of sweet milk, four eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 table-spoonful of lard, 1 teaspoonful of salt, \ teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and proceed as in No. 1. (3) Take 1 teacupful of corn-flour or flour, 1 teacupful of sweet milk, 1 teacupful of butter-milk, two eggs, 1 table- spoonful of butter, 1 table-spoonful of flour, £ teaspoonful of salt, and the same quantity of bicarbonate of soda. Bake in moulds, as in No. 1, or cups. Batter Cakes.—(1) Beat two eggs well into 1 teacupful of milk, and add it gradually to 1 pint of flour, with which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been mixed, also salt to taste. When they are ready to be baked, take 1 tea- spoonful of tartaric acid, and having dissolved it in 1 table- spoonful of water, woi'k in quickly and thoroughly; then lay the cakes on a greased baking-sheet, and put into a quick oven until brown. (2) Mix 1 pint of cream, 1 pint of sour milk or butter-milk, four eggs, 1 tcaspoonful of salt, sufficient bicarbonate of soda to neutralise the acidity of the milk, and 3 pints of sifted flour, or enough to make a stiff Batter. Stir these well together, and bake in a deep dish. If for griddle cakes, the Batter may be made a little thinner, by not adding so much flour. To bo served with butter and sugar, and eaten hot for tea or breakfast. Batter Cakes with Bread.—Take 4 pressed teacupfuls of fine breadcrumbs, 1 teacupful of flour, 2 teacupfuls of butter- milk, one egg, a little salt, and 1 tcaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Let the breadcrumbs be very small. Pour the butter- milk over them, and let it remain sufficiently long to soften, then mix in the flour, egg, and soda, and proceed as for Batter Cakes with Bice. If butter-milk cannot be obtained, use water, with 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. Batter Cakes with Klice.—Take 1 teacupful of thoroughly- washed and cleansed large rice, and boil in 1 pint of water, in a saucepan with the lid close on. Cold boiled rice will do quite as well. Warm £ pint of milk, and mash the rice up with it, using a little of the milk at a time, and work with a spoon until quite smooth. Add 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 teaspoon- ful of baking-powder, and a large pinch of salt, working in with two well-beaten eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of golden syrup. Leave covered with a cloth in a warm place for a short time, and then cut off and shape pieces the size of a small fist into flat, round cakes, and bake on a griddle. These make nice tea- cakes, cut open, and buttered hot. Batter Cakes with Yeast and without Eggs.—(1) Take 1 breakfast- cupful of flour, ) pint of water or milk, \ breakfast- cupful of yeast, 2 table-spoonfuls each of melted lard and golden syrup, and a little salt, mixing all well together. Set this Batter in a warm place in the morning, having kept it in the cool all night, and let it rise ready to cook for breakfast. Beat well with the rolling-pin, and make into cakes for baking. (2) Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of flour into a bowl; pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of lukewarm water and 1 teacupful of yeast; mix well, and set it to rise in a warm place. Add 1 table- spoonful each of melted lard and syrup, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Beat well with a spoon, divide the Batter into cakes, bake them in a moderate oven, and serve. Batter-cream Soup.—Put 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan, and pour in sufficient water to make a very thick Batter. Add four or five eggs, beat them well in, pour over the required quantity of well-strained and highly-seasoned boiling broth, stir well over the fire for a few minutes, pour the whole into a tureen, and serve very hot. Batter Flannel Cakes. — Put 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour into a basin, and mix in 1 teacupful of yeast and 4 break- fast-cupfuls of warm water. Let this remain in a warm place for eight or ten hours; then add 1 table-spoonful of syrup, ljoz- of melted lard, two eggs, and 1 pinch of salt. Boll this paste out on a floured board, after it has risen again, cut it into shapes, put these in a moderate oven, and bake until done. Take them out, and serve. Batter for Fritters.—Make a smooth Batter by mixing Mb. of flour with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and beating in,