172 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Bouillabaisse—continued. a little garlic, parsley, bay-leaves, fennel, ground pepper, salt, a large pinch of hay saffron, sliced tomatoes, and a proportion of salad oil. All these ingredients are mixed together cold, and are then tossed together in the casserole until all have just caught the colour of the saffron. Then sufficient water is added to cover the fish, and the kettle (casserole) is placed over a very quick fire. There it is left to boil up for five or six minutes, and then it is turned out on to a large dish covered with slices of bread. In Provence the love of this dish is almost an insanity, and modern troubadours have sung of its merits in flattering verse; but no poet appears to have hit the mark so cleverly as Thackeray. This appears to have given the greatest offence to a certain famous French author, who first translates Thackeray’s verses into execrable French, and then calls upon the good people of Marseilles to find some- one to do better, because Non, non, jamais en France, Jamais 1’Ang-lais ne regnera. (1) Jules Gouffe gives the following receipt for Bouilla- baisse :—Put in a saucepan 61b. of mixed fish, such as soles, whiting, gurnet, and flounders, cut in pieces ; add four sliced onions, one sliced carrot, three shallots, two unpicked cloves of garlic, a bunch of thyme and parsley, five or six cloves, two bay-leaves, £ tablespoonful of capsicum, 1 tea- cupful of olive oil, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour in with the above ingredients 2qts. of water, and boil them gently for half-an-hour, keeping the lid on the saucepan. When cooked, drain the fish, and arrange it on a hot dish. Mix 1 teaspoonful of saffron with the soup, and pass it through a pointed strainer into a soup-tureen. Serve the soup with the fish and a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. (2) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions in a stewpan with a small quantity of oil or butter, and fry them over the fire till browned; then put in a small bunch of parsley and bay-leaves, lib. of peeled potatoes not cut up, and lqt. of water ; season to taste with pepper and salt, and add x saltspoonful of saffron. Boil gently till the potatoes are nearly cooked, then put in four or five moderate-sized slices of cod, and boil them till done. Put some slices of French roll in a hot deep dish ; when the cod is cooked, put it on the bread, garnish with the potatoes, strain the cooking liquor over all, and serve. (3) Chop very fine two medium-sized, peeled, sound onions with one medium-sized, fine, fresh, green pepper, and put them in a pan over the fire, with 1 gill of sweet oil. When well browned, moisten with 3 pints of hot white broth. Cut three skinned, good-sized, sound, well-washed potatoes into quarters, also three good-sized, sound, red, peeled tomatoes into rather small pieces; put all in the soup. Season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and half that quantity of pepper, and then boil well for fully an-hour-and-a-half, placing into it at the beginning a bouquet of sweet herbs, also £ teaspoon- ful of powdered saffron diluted in a little water; when nearly done add lib. of boned cod-fish cut into small pieces, boil again for three minutes, pour into a hot soup-tureen, and serve with half-a-dozen slices of toasted bread. (4) Clean and cut into pieces of moderate size one large whiting weighing about l^lb. or 21b., a gurnet, and a very small turbot. Make about 2qts. of broth with the heads, some small fish, chopped vegetables, white wine or Madeira, and water; pass this through a strainer, skim, and let it stand. Put a large onion and a leek, minced, into a stewpan with J pint of good olive oil and a clove of garlic, and fry to a light brown colour. When done, put in the fish with a little more white wine and sufficient of the broth to cover them ; then add a small raw lobster, a large pinch of salt, a little saffron, a bay-leaf, the pulp of a lemon without the rind, and a bunch of parsley. Boil briskly until done, then remove the stewpan and take out the parsley. Have ready some slices of bread about iin. in thickness, pour the liquid over this, put the pieces of fish on the dish with the heads and broth, and serve. (5) Clean a moderate-sized fresh whiting, a raw lobster, a small turbot (or half a medium-sized one), and two small gurnets; Bouillabaisse—continued. cut them up in pieces, and wipe them well. Make a broth of about 3qts. with the heads, some small fish, a small slice of conger eel, and bones of any fresh fish. Put two minced leeks into a stewpan, and fry in ^ pint of Provence oil ; when ready, add two tomatoes peeled and cut in pieces. Now add the pieces of fish, with half a bottle of white wine and sufficient fish-broth made hot to cover them. Tie up in a bag a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, a small teaspoonful of pimento, a sprig of fennel, a little saffron, and the pulp of two lemons peeled and sliced, and put in the saucepan. Boil until the fish is done, which should be about a-quarter-of- an-hour, when the liquid would be reduced to a quarter of its original quantity. Take out the pieces of fish, bone the best pieces, and place them in a soup-tureen, into which the broth has previously been poured. Remove the parsley, &c., from the broth, and add the leeks. Serve some thin slices of toasted bread separately. (6) Russian Style.—Clean and cut in pieces a small sterlet (see Sturgeon). Put a clove of garlic and two onions, minced, into a stewpan with some olive oil. Fry gently to a bright brown colour, and then add the sterlet, a small eel, half-a-dozen crayfish cut in halves, and twelve prawns. Season with sliced pulp of lemon, two red peppers, a handful of parsley, salt, and 3 table-spoonfuls of tomato ketchup. Cover the fish with white wine or Madeira, and fish broth, in the proportion of three parts wine to one part broth, and boil briskly for twelve to fifteen minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, and strain the broth into a deep dish with slices of bread laid at the bottom. Serve the fish on a separate dish. (7) Put into a large saucepan about 1 teacupful of best olive oil, and a little mixed spice and pepper. Add an onion, minced, with a tomato, and a little garlic and parsley. Boil until the onion begins to colour, and then add any fish handy, with 1 pinch each of salt and powdered saffron. Fill the saucepan to the top of the fish with hot water, and boil over a quick fire for fifteen or twenty minutes, or until the broth is one-quarter the bulk of the original quantity. Pour the broth over slices of bread about Jin. thick, and serve the fish on a separate dish. (8) Cut in pieces about the size of an egg any kind of fish that is in season, such as turbot, gurnets, plaice, soles, lobsters, crayfish, &c. Put two minced onions in a stew- pan with a little butter, and slightly brown it over the fire ; put in the fish, with a little olive oil, two or three bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, a little pulp of a lemon, a large pinch of saffron, and two sound, ripe tomatoes, witii about 5 tumblerful of Madeira or white wine. Cover the whole with sufficient stock, boil quickly from twelve to fifteen minutes, and skim carefully. A handful of finely-chopped parsley should be added before serving. The fish can be served separately from the broth or with it, according to taste. (9) Marseillaise Style.—Brown in a saucepan two large sliced onions in 1 gill of oil, and moisten this with lqt. of strong fish stock, adding a bouquet garni and three cloves of garlic, bruised and minced exceedingly fine. Dilute 3- pinch of powdered Spanish saffron in water, and add to it the gravy. Take one small eel, one very small bass, one small sole, one raw lobster, or any other firm fish ready at hand, cut them in shoes, season with 1 pinch of salt and % saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, and put them all together into the saucepan on a slow fire. Cook for twenty minutes, and when ready, serve very hot in a deep dish, on which six pieces of toast have been previously arranged. (10) Put a chopped onion, a bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, and 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil into a saucepan, and toss them about over the fire for a few minutes. Clean and cut into slices some whiting, put them in the saucepan with the onion, add two or three sliced tomatoes, three or four slices of lemon, 1 pinch each of saffron, pepper, and salt, and 1 wineglassful of white wine. Pour in sufficient water to cover the fish, and boil it quickly for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take the fish out, put it on a dish, and keep it hot near the fire. Strain the cooking-liquor into another saucepan, mix in 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley and just sufficient flour to prevent it being quite thin (but not much, as the sauce should not be thick), stir it over the fire, and boil it up again. Put some slices of a penny roll in a deep dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve them with the dish of fish.