66 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bael—continued. Bael Preserve. -For this, fruit which is rather less than half ripe should be used. Cut as many as required into slices about jin. in thickness, and carefully remove all the seeds and the gum surrounding them. Throw them as cut into cold water, let them steep for a few minutes, take them out, put them into a saucepan with strong syrup, and simmer over a slow fire for thirty minutes or so, by which time the preserve should be a rich light brown. Let it get cold, bottle it, taking care to have the fruit well covered with the syrup, cork down the bottles, and keep them in a cool place until wanted. Bael Sherbet (Indian).—Scoop out the whole contents of a ripe sweet Bael, add a little water to make it into a paste, sweeten to taste, pour in more water until it is as thick as honey, and strain it to remove the seeds and fibres. It is then ready for drinking. This is considered a delicious drink, and possesses the peculiarity, that if drank about as fluid as stout, it is a mild aperient; but if taken as thick as pea-soup, it has an astringent effect. Candied Bael.—Cut up some Bael fruit into quarters or slices, remove the seeds and gum, and steep the fruit in cold water. After a few hours, take them out, drain them, put them into a preserving-pan, with sufficient syrup to cover, and simmer gently for half-an-hour, by which time the fruit should be tender. Turn it out on to oiled paper, lay it on trays, set the trays in the sun for a few hours, and the Candying will be complete. It may be stored away in boxes. The oiled paper is used to prevent the candy from sticking to the trays. BAGRATION SOUP.—-See Soups. BAIN-MARIE.—In kitchens where a demand might he made at any time upon sauces, gravies, stews, and such-like culinary preparations, the Bain-marie, or hot- water bath, is of the first importance; because by the principle of its construction it allows the most delicate fluids to be kept at a temperature equal to boiling water, without themselves boiling or being exposed to the uncertain heat of a hot-plate or stove. In small kitchens one pot stood in another, or in a flat tin containing water, answers for all purposes; but where several such pots are, or may be, required, the Bain-marie becomes an essential. The origin of the term is doubtful, some Continental etymologists asserting that it obtained its wonderful name from the prophetess Marie, to whom the credit of its invention is attributed; but others, of a more practical turn of mind, are of opinion that it is styled Bain- marie, from bain, a bath, and marie—a corruption of mer—the sea, from the ocean-like appearance of the broad expanse of water the pan presents when the pots are removed. Amongst illiterate cooks it is occasionally styled the Banburee, but this is an evident corruption. In large hotels and club kitchens the Bain-marie plays an important part, and its pans are kept perpetually supplied with stock sauces, which it is usual to label as shown in the illustration (Fig. 69). Mr. Wilson, of the Wilson Engineering Company, has provided a very clever little Bain-marie pot, which Bain-marie—continued. can be made to fit into an ordinary kitchen boiler when the lid of the boiler is removed (see Fig. 70). The steam is quite as effectual as the hot water, so that the quantity of water in the boiler is not material to the utility of the pot. Ude proclaims the value of the Bain-marie thus: “ You put all your stew- pans into the water, and f; keep that water always 1 i| very hot, but it must not 11 m boil. The effect of this is to keep every dish warm pIG 70. Wilson’s Bain-marie Pot without altering either the to Fit in a Kitchen Boiler. quantity or quality. When I had the honour of serving a nobleman in this country, who kept a very extensive hunting establishment, and the hour of dinner was consequently uncertain, I was in the habit of using the Bain-marie as a certain means of preserving the flavour of all my dishes. If you keep your sauce, or broth, or soup, by the fire-side, the soup reduces and becomes too strong, and the sauce thickens as well as reduces.” All this, and the possi- bility of burning, is avoided by using the Bain-marie. BAKEHOUSE.—If it were in the power of every baker to organise his own Bakehouse, the probabilities are that he would aim at constructing something very different from those generally met with. There is no reason why they should not be amply ventilated; but this the builder seems to carefully avoid, probably under the grievous misapprehension that heat is required out- side as well as inside the oven. Sky-lights, or high windows that open widely, are essential to the well-being of those working in Bakehouses, allowing the super- abundant heat from the oven and the steam from the bread to escape. Many important improvements have been made in modern bakeries, especially in the matter of Ovens, which are described under that head. BAKESTONE CAKES.—-See Cakes. BAKEWELL PUDDING.—This is named after the town of Bakewell, near Cliatsworth, in Derbyshire, where it is naturally and deservedly a great favourite. The term “ Bakewell ” does not, therefore, apply to the mode of cooking. The secret of its concoction is sufficiently simple to render it worthy of universal note. (1) Line a pie-dish with a light paste, and spread over it a thick layer of preserved fruit of any kind—plums, apples, pears, gooseberries, strawberries, cherries, apricots, or peaches, &c.—and over this sprinkle some thin slips of candied orange- or citron-peel. Make a rich custard of six yolks and three whites of eggs, worked up with 5oz. of warmed, clarified butter, 6oz. of caster sugar, and 1 wineglassful of lemon- brandy, and flavour with 30 drops of essence of lemon. Pour the custard over and among the preserved fruit, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour or until done. . (2) Put 8oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and add the beaten yolks of eight eggs and the whites of two. When the mixture is nearly cold, add 8oz. of sugar and a little essence of almonds for flavouring. Have ready a dish lined with puff paste, mask it at the bottom with a layer of jam or pre- serve, pour the mixture over to about lin. in thickness, put the dish in the oven, and bake for an hour, when if will be ready to be served. (3) Grate jib. of finger biscuits into a basin, and mix them up with 6oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar and 1 teacupful of cream. Put a thin layer of this mixture at the bottom of a buttered, plain mould, then a layer of peeled and cored pears ; over this sprinkle a layer of breadcrumbs, and again over this put a few preserved or dried cherries, intermixed with small pieces of blanched almonds. Well beat a couple of eggs, pour them over, and continue in this way twice more, making three distinct layers, finishing with egg, cherries, and almonds.