59 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their svecial heads. Attereau(x)—continued. To Louis Eustaclie Ude we are indebted for the following:— Attereaux of Goose’s Tat Liver.— See Goose’s Fat Liver. Attereaux of Ox-palates.—See Ox-palates. Attereaux of Rabbits in the Italian Style.—See Babbits. Attereaux of Sweetbreads.—See Sweetbreads. AU RAIN-MARIE.—Fr. for the act of keeping sauces and other things warm in a hot-water bath. See Bain-marie. AU BLEU.—Fr. for “plain-boiled.” AU FOUR.—Fr. for “ in the oven.” AU GRAS.—Fr. for any dish that is prepared with meat stock. AU GRATIN.—Fr. for any dish prepared with bread- crumbs. AU JUS.—Fr. for “with gravy”; and hence, “in its own gravy.” AUM, or OHM.—A wine-cask holding 30galls., and much used in Germany for exporting wines. AU MAIGRE.—Fr. term for soups and other dishes prepared without meat. Australian Meat—continued. Water. Per Cent. Australian Mutton No. 1 99 99 99 ^ „ „ 9, 3 Home-grown Mutton 59-2G 6148 6157 52-59 This shows a very large percentage of water in the pound of Australian meat, which, as all know, is not nourishing, and therefore present at the expense of the good qualities of the meat. Fat. Per Cent. Australian Mutton No. 1 1962 „ „ ,, 2 14-62 „ „ ,9 3 15-79 Home-grown Mutton 28-88 Extractive Matters. Alcoholic Water Total Extract. Extract. Per Cent. Australian Mutton No. 1 2-47 ... 4-47 .. 6-94 2 2-87 ... 4-05 .. 692 99 99 99 3 ... 3T2 ... 3-82 .. 6-91 Home-grown Mutton 2-28 ... 1-85 .. 4-13 The nourishing qualities of the extractive matter vary according to composition. Albumen and Fibrine. AU NATUREL.-*. for “plain.” AURELIAN CAKES.—See Cakes. AURORA SAUCE (Sauce d la Aurore).—This Sauce is so called from the Aurora-like colour that is intro- duced into it. For the receipt for its manufacture, see Sauces. AUSTRALIAN BEER.—Considerable improvement has in late years been made in the brewing of Beer in our Australasian Colonies. That made in Tasmania is reckoned to be the best produced, and in nowise inferior to our best English brews; this being, in a great measure, due to the superiority of Tasmanian hops. Australian Mutton No. 1 „ „ 99 2 „ „ „ 3 Per Cent. 14-60 16-92 16-39 Home-grown Mutton ... ... ... 14"40 (of which by far the larger proportion is albumen). Of this the albumen is the nourishing quality, but in the case of cooked (such as tinned) Meats it is not possible to separate them, hence they are stated under one analysis. The toughness and hardness of Meat depend upon the proportion and strength of its fibrine, hence its nutritive qualities are less in proportion. The mineral matters are not of so much importance; they are as follow : AUSTRALIAN MEAT—There are two methods of preserving meat, grown and killed in Australia, for use in this country, the first and most important being that of conveying by ship the whole carcases of sheep, lambs, pigs, calves, and halves of beef, hung in freezing-chambers; and the other is that of putting up cooked meats in her- metically-sealed tins. The efficacy of this or that mode of preserving is not of so much importance to the cook as is the condition of the flesh when it reaches the market and is offered for sale. Some chemists have written boldly declaring that Australian frozen meat is not only quite as good as, but greatly superior to, any- thing to be met with as native to this country; but the declamations of such individuals are of little value, seeing that in almost every instance where such a whole- sale statement has been made, the chemist making it has been, in a sense, an interested party. Independent chemists assure us that the frozen flesh of the imported animal is greatly inferior to the fresh meat of our market, and would scarcely be recognised as even a second-class quality, as regards either its nutritive value or its flavour; and, moreover, what is of much greater consequence, that the difference in cost is no real saving after all. This inferiority of Australian meat is not necessarily due to the influence of freezing,—indeed, the probability is that little or no change takes place during the time that King Frost reigns supreme—but the quality of the meat at the time of killing is inferior. Mr. Ogilvie, in the Chemical News, in 1874, pointed out the comparative nutritive values of Australian and home mutton, and his figures are too important to be ignored. In the first place, he gives the results of his analyses of three kinds of Australian meat, and compares them with an average of the home produce. Mineral Matters. Soluble Insoluble Total Per Cent. Pel- Cent. Per Cent. Australian Mutton No. 1 ... 0’654 ... 0'444 ... 1-098 „ „ „ 2 ... 1-019 ... 0-543 .. 1-562 „ „ „ 3 ... 0-705 ... 0 160 ... 0-865 Home-grown mutton ... 0'303 ... 0'150 ... 0-453 (much less than in the imported article). From these tables it may be readily conceived that if correct—and they have not been disputed—the Meat im- ported from Australia is not so nutritious as that of home production; it lacks fat and albumen, and contains too much water and mineral and extractive matters in its composition. These remarks apply equally to Meats im- ported under similar conditions from America. With regard to the various preparations of Meat im- ported in tins, Blyth observes: “ There are two serious objections to this Meat—the one that it is invariably over- cooked, from the desire to insure the complete exclusion of atmospheric air; and the second, that the tins often crack from the constant pressure of the atmosphere, there being a vacuum within them.” This “cracking” of the tins has been overcome by the introduction of a non- decomposing gas, such as carbonic acid or nitrogen. Nevertheless, in spite of all that can be urged in their favour, Australian Meats, in whatever fashion imported, are shown to be inferior to home-grown produce, and there- fore only serviceable to those families to whom price is of more importance than quality. See American Meat. To Cook Frozen Meat.—The first thing to do with Frozen Meat, before attempting to cook it, is to “ unfreeze ” it, or thaw the flesh gradually; for it may be taken for granted that during the voyage the whole substance of the animal has been frozen, and this can only be thawed by degrees. The