47 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads Arrowroot—continued. serve in lqt. of hot or cold water; cover it over, and let it stew by the side of the stove for another half-hour. Strain, and then set the liquor on the stove again. Whilst this is getting hot, mix 1 teaspoonful of Arrowroot in cold water, and when the liquor boils, pour it upon the Arrowroot, stirring quickly. Let it get cold, strain it again, and serve. Children take this readily. Arrowroot Drops.—Into a buttered or well-oiled saucepan pour 1 teacupful of Arrowroot, which has been crushed in a mortar, or under a rolling-pin. Add 2oz. of butter, 1 table- spoonful of pounded sugar, 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon-rind, a well-beaten egg, and warm them all up together, beating thoroughly to make the mixture light and thick. Then drop pieces about as large as a walnut, or smaller if preferred, at regular intervals on to a buttered, bright baking-sheet, and put into a quick oven for about a quarter-of-an-hour. When done, the drops can be lifted off with a knife. The addition of a small chip of candied citron- or orange-peel, or a slip of angelica, pressed on to each drop before baking, is by some considered an improvement. Arrowroot Food.— (1) Break an egg, separate the yolk from the white, and whip each to a stiff froth. Add 1 tablespoonful of Arrowroot and a little water to the yolk, and rub till smooth and free from lumps. Pour slowly into J pint of boiling water, stirring all the time, and let it simmer till jelly- like. Sweeten to taste, and add 1 table-spoonful of French brandy. Stir in the frothed white, and serve hot in winter. In summer, set first on ice, then stir in the beaten white. Milk may be used instead of water. (2) Mix 1 table-spoonful of Arrowroot with enough cold water to make a paste, free from lumps. Pour this slowly into £ pint of boiling milk, and let it simmer until it becomes thick and jelly-like. Sweeten to taste, and add a little nutmeg or cinnamon. Arrowroot Fritters.—Dissolve 1 piled-up table-spoonful of caster sugar in 1 pint of new milk, and boil in a saucepan, with three or four laurel- or bay-leaves. Whilst this is heating', moisten Jib. of Arrowroot with a little cold water, and make quite smooth ; stir this into the milk as soon as it boils. Beat up the yolks of four eggs, stir in briskly, and make smooth also. Then pour this into a well-buttered baking-tin, and bake it in a quick oven. When it is well done and cold, stamp it out in rounds, dip the rounds in egg and breadcrumb, and fry for five minutes in hot lard. Drain and pile up on a dish- paper, and serve with raspberry jam. Arrowroot Jelly.—This is considered a very fine food for invalids with weak bowels. Mix thoroughly loz. of Arrowroot (the best only must be used for jellies and blancmangers) with a little cold water, and when smooth stir in £ pint of boiling water. Beef tea, strong chicken or veal stock, or milk, may be used instead of the water. Add a wineglassful of port or madeira, and flavour with nutmeg, or vanilla if milk or water only is used. Arrowroot Pudding'.—(1) Mix loz. of Arrowroot smooth with a little cold water in a basin. Boil 1 pint of milk with a little lemon-peel and sugar, and pour on quickly, stirring well. Beat up the yolks of two eggs and stir in, afterwards adding the whites beaten to a froth. Stir lightly, pour into a baking-dish, and bake for ten or fifteen minutes. Serve at once whilst hot, as it is liable to turn watery when cold. (2) Boil lqt. of milk and make it into a thick batter with Arrowroot. Add the yojks of six eggs, Jib. of sugar, Jib. of butter, half a nutmeg, and a little grated lemon-peel. Line a pie-dish with thin pastry, and pour in the Arrowroot mixture to fill the dish. Bake it nicely. When done, stick slips of citron all over the top, and pour over it the whites of six eggs, beaten stiff, sweetened with 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and flavoured to taste. (3) Mix thoroughly 1 piled table-spoonful of Arrowroot with 3 pint of milk, put in a strip of thinly-cut lemon-rind, and boil slowly, stirring well. Add the yolks of four eggs, 1 wineglassful of sherry or madeira, and 1 teacupful of orange-flower water. Beat up the whites of four eggs, and stir in lightly, sweetening to taste. Butter a mould, arrange dried cherries in it, and pour in the mixture. Set in a stewpan of water, and steam for half-an-hour with some fire on the lid of the stewpan, which makes the pudding light. Serve with a sweet wine sauce. Arrowroot—continued. (4) Rub 1 teapcupful of Arrowroot smooth with J pint of cold milk. Boil lqt. of milk in a saucepan, with cinnamon and lemon- or orange-peel, sweetening with 2oz. of sugar. Pound twelve bitter almonds, and mix them with the Arrowroot and cold milk ; strain through a hair sieve, and add the boiling milk, stirring well. When the mixture begins to thicken, add 1 teaspoonful of fresh butter, and when it is thoroughly done, pour into a mould. Put in a cold place to set. Arrowroot Sauce.—For this, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of Arrowroot, mixed smooth with J pint of milk or white wine, and sufficient sugar to sweeten, are required. Add a little grated orange- or lemon-peel. Stir this over a slow fire, and when thick remove to ope side. Ten minutes afterwards remove the peel, and add a few table-spoonfuls of rum, or of maraschino or any other liqueur. Pour over light puddings. Arrowroot Shape.—Mix 2oz. of Arrowroot in J pint of cold water, and let it settle; pour off the water, and flavour the Arrowroot with 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Boil lqt. of milk with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar and a little cinnamon, and strain through a tammy cloth on to the Arrowroot, stirring all the time. Simmer a short time, still stirring, and put it into a well-buttered mould. Put it in a cold place to set. Turn it out on the following day, and serve with a custard made with 1 pint of milk and the yolks of four eggs, and flavoured with essence of vanilla or orange- flower water. Arrowroot Souffle.—Moisten 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of Arrow- root with J pint of cold milk, and pass through a sieve into a stewpan, adding a grain of salt, 4oz. of sugar, 20 drops of essence of lemon or vanilla, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Stir over the fire until the mixture is in a smooth batter. Boil quickly for a few minutes; pour into another stewpan, and beat in the yolks of five or six eggs. When cool, mix in the whipped whites of four eggs, and 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of whipped cream. Pour this into a buttered souffle- dish, put into a slack oven, and bake for twenty-five minutes. Sprinkle with caster sugar, and serve. Apricot marmalade is an excellent garnish for this. Arrowroot Soup.—Any soup or broth, particularly white soups, may be thickened with Arrowroot. Put a small quantity in a basin, add some of the broth drop by drop, working with the back of a spoon till the mixture is of the consistency of thick mustard. Stir into the soup, and boil up. ART.—Ger. for “ after the fashion of,” as Pariser art— Parisian style. The term is frequently used in Continental cookery. ARTICHOKES (Fr. Artichauts ; Ger. Artischoken).— There are two kinds of vegetables known by this name— the Green. or Globe Artichoke (Gynara Scolymus), the flower of which resembles that of a thistle, and provides the edible part ; and the Jerusalem Artichoke, which is a species of sunflower, with edible, tuberous roots (Heli- anthus tuberosus). The latter is the most common in this country, and grows very pro- fusely in any soil or situation. The name “ Jerusalem ” is pro- bably a corruption of the word Girasole, which is the Italian name for the sunflower. “Arti- choke ” is most likely of Arabic origin, the name for the plant in that language being Al- kharciof, which is pronounced very hard and abruptly. Some authorities believe that it is derived from the Greek word artitykos, meaning “ suitable for seasoning.” The Globe Artichoke (see Fig. 45) is mentioned as a favourite dish in the reign of Henry VIII., when it is said to have been first transplanted from France into Fig. 45. Green or Globe Artichoke.