205 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Broth—co ntinued. Scotch Broth.— (1) Put into a saucepan 21b. of tlie scraggy part of a neck of mutton ; cut the meat from the bones into small pieces, and remove all the fat; add one large turnip, one carrot, one onion, a stalk of celery (all cut line), 1 tea- cupful of pearl barley, and 3 pints of cold water, and simmer for two hours. Put the bones in 1 pint of water, simmer two hours, and strain upon the Broth. Cook 1 table-spoonful each of flour and butter together until perfectly smooth, stir into the Broth, and add 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Season with salt and pepper to taste. (2) Wash well 2 table-spoonfuls of pearl barley, and soak overnight in cold water. Scrape 21b. of the neck of mutton from the bones and cut the meat up into -Jin. squares, wiping with a clean wet cloth, and removing the fat and skin. Put the bones on to boil in 1 pint of cold water, and the meat in another vessel with 3 pints. Boil the latter quickly, and skim carefully just as it begins to boil. When the scum is white, add the barley, and skim again. Take 1 teacupful each of cut carrot, onion, turnip, and celery, fry them five minutes in 1 table-spoonful of butter, and add them to the meat, simmering- until the meat and barley are tender. Strain the water in which the bones have simmered. Put 1 table- spoonful of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and when warm beat smooth with a spoon; add the strained bone Broth gradually and stir into the meat Broth, adding 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 1 saltspoonful of white pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Simmer ten minutes, and serve without straining. (3) Put in a saucepan |lb. of well-washed pearl barley and 51b. to Gib. of neck of mutton, and cover with 5qts. of cold water ; let this come to the boil, and then leave it to simmer for half-an-hour. Then add two each of turnips, carrots, onions or leeks, and a head of celery cut up small, and if available i pint or so of dried green peas, and simmer two- hours-and-a-half longer. Skim the fat off as it rises. The meat may be served separately, if desired, with vegetables round it, and the Broth in a tureen. (4) Put 31b. of the scrag end of a neck of mutton in a pan, and cover with 2qts. of cold water; add one onion, one small turnip, a little parsley, a little thyme, and not quite a tea- cupful of rice ; a carrot and a little celery added will give a nice flavour. When boiling, skim carefully; then cover the pan and let it simmer for two hours. Do not cut the vege- tables too small. Serve very hot. (5) Cut up a shoulder of mutton into pieces, wash them well in warm water, and then put in a stockpot; sprinkle a little salt over, pour in 8 or 9 pints of cold water, and set it on the stove to boil. When it boils, skim, place the pot on one side to simmer, put in whole a root of celex-y, two large carrots, one turnip, 1 teacupful of well-washed pearl barley, two or three cloves, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, and let it simmer for two-hours-and-a-half; then take the mutton and vegetables out of the stockpot, strain the Broth through a damp cloth, and let it cool. Fry in butter the white of two leeks; when done, put them in 2qts. of the mutton Broth, and boil; boil also separately 1 breakfast- cupful of well-washed pearl barley in salted water; cut the carrots, turnip, and celery-root into squares, and add all these and the barley to the Broth, with the meat, also cut in squares ; simmer for a few minutes, and serve in a tureen, with a pinch of chopped parsley to float on top. (6) Trim two necks of mutton and put them in a sauce- pan with 4qts. of water, the breast bones and trimmings, two onions (with two cloves stuck in one), a little salt and pepper, and boil slowly for three hours. After an-hour-and-a- half’s boiling, take out both the necks and put them on a dish to cool. Boil j lb. of well-washed pearl barley in some water, with a little butter and salt. Blanch and cut in small squares a small carrot, a turnip, two leeks, one head of white celery, and jib. of onions; fry them in fib. of butter for five minutes, stirring all the time; then add 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, and mix all with the Broth. Warm up vei-y hot and serve. Stock or First Broth—(1) Take some pieces of beef, such as the rump or breast, put in a saucepan with some cold water, simmer gently, and skim off all fat and scum. Add a little cold water to bring the white scum to the top. Put in one or two heads of celery, a few turnips, carrots, leeks, and four large onions (sticking five cloves in one of the onions), Broth—continued. add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and simmer for five hours. Remove all the fat off the top, and strain through a gravy strainer. (2) This Broth can be made with all sorts of meat, as well as veal or poulti-y. Put in a stockpot a knuckle of veal, a piece of beef (buttock or any other kind), the trim- mings of meat or fowl, accoi-ding to the quantity of Broth required. Cover with about £ pint of water, and add two or three green onions and a bunch of parsley. When you have let them stand for a short time until no blood appears when the meat is cut, fill up with boiling water or bouillon, and simmer for four hours. When the Broth remains on the fire too long it loses flavour, and tastes sti-ong and disagreeable. Take off all scum that rises to the top. Tea-kettle Broth.— This meagre Broth is made by putting into a basin some small pieces of thin toast, over which are sprinkled a little salt and a dust of pepper ; then put in the basin a piece of butter the size of a pigeon’s egg, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of good ci-eam. The rest is loft to the tea-kettle, and the basin may be filled as full as desired with the hot water from it. Serve hot. Turkish Broth.—Thoroughly wash between 51b. and Gib. of knuckle of veal or slices of beef, put it in a saucepan with two or three onions peeled and cut in quarters, a stick of celery cut into small pieces, a lump of salt, and from 3qts. to 4qts. of water. Put the saucepan over the fire until the water boils, then move it to the side, and skim well. Let it simmer till the meat separates from the bones. Strain the Broth through a fine hair sieve, and keep it in a basin for use. Vegetable Broth.—Boil in lqt. of water two sliced potatoes, one carrot, one turnip, and one onion, for about an hour, taking care to keep up the original quantity by adding water from time to time; flavour with salt and a small por- tion of sweet herbs, and then strain. A small quantity of mushroom ketchup is a desirable addition. Welsh Broth.—Put the Broth from a boiled leg of pork, mutton, or piece of beef, into a saucepan with 21b. or 31b. of scrag of mutton, and any pieces or trimmings of cooked or uncooked meat, a few bones, and 1 cowheel or ox-tail, pouring in water to make up the required quantity of liquor. Set the saucepan on the side of the fire, or in a slow oven, and cook gently for aboxxt four hours. Add a large onion, two carrots, and two turnips, cut in pieces, and cook for another hour-and-a-half; add 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient oatmeal to give the Broth the thickness of gruel. Strain the Broth through a coarse sieve into another saucepan, make it quite hot, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve. White Broth (Bouillon Blanc).—(1) Put in a stockpot some veal-bones, the giblets of one or two chickens, and two knuckles of veal; sprinkle a little salt over them, pour in 4qts. or 5qts. of water, and let it simmer for half-an-hour; then skim, and add one carrot, a little celei'y, a small piece of turnip, two leeks, and a sprinkle of chopped parsley. Sim- mer gently till the meat is done, then strain. When cold, remove the flakes of fat, and keep ready for use. (2) Place in a large stock-urn on a moderate fire a good heavy knuckle of fine white veal, with all the debris or scraps of meat, including bones (but not of game), remain- ing in the kitchen; cover fully with cold water, and add a handful of salt. As it comes to the boil be very careful to skim off all the scum—no particle should be left in—and then put in two lai'ge, sound, well-scraped carrots (whole), one whole cleaned sound turnip, one whole peeled lai'ge sound onion, one well-cleaned parsley root, three roughly- washed leeks, and a few stalks of cleaned celei'y. Boil very slowly for six hours on the corner of the range, skim the grease off cleanly, then strain well through a wet cloth into a china bowl or a stone jar, and put it away in a cool place for general use. This Broth can bo used for general cooking purposes. See also Fish, Fowl (for Chicken), Jelly, Mutton, Rabbit, Semolina, Yeal, &c. BBiOUILLBS.—French for dishes that are mashed and mixed up, as “ scrambled eggs.”