78 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die:, referred to, see under their special heads. BARCELONNETTES.—A sort of French iced cakes, surmounted with confits, and so called after Barcelona, where a similar confection is in great vogue. BARDING.—This term is frequently confounded with larding, but differs from it materially in one or two par- ticulars. The word “ bard ” signifies a breastplate, or piece of armour; hence it was at one time usual to speak of barding as “ enarming.” A thin sheet of bacon-fat is sliced off and then trimmed square to fit, and tied over Fig. 83. Barded Bird. the breast of the bird with two or three pieces of thread (Fig. 83). The distinction between Barding and larding will be best understood by referring to Larding. BARFOED PUDDING.—See Puddings. BARIGOULE, A LA. -— The French name for a style of dressing artichokes, in which olive oil takes a prominent part. Barigoule is also the French botanical name for a sort of edible mushroom. BARLEY (FY\ Orge; Ger. Gerste, from which we get “Grist”).-—This well-known grain is the produce of several species of the hordeum, and is chiefly of value in its natural state for “malting.” It forms, when ground to meal and relieved of husk, a good wholesome bread, but less nutritious than that made from wheat. Barley-meal or flour are also more perishable than wheat- flour, and soon acquire a hot, nauseous taste, which is not destroyed or removed by cooking. “ Barley,” we are told, “was extensively cultivated by the Romans and many other nations of antiquity, as well as by the ancient inhabitants of Gaul; and the Greeks are said to have trained their athletes upon it.” There is not sufficient demand upon the supply of Barley-meal to render its adulteration of much commer- cial value to the adulterator. The best test for its genuineness is the microscope (see Fig. 84), when any impurities, such as dust, grit, or insects, are readily detected. Pearl Barley (Ft. Orge perle; Ger. Perlengrau- pen). — This is plain Barley deprived of its husks. The mode of operation is by steaming spring Barley to soften the skin, drying it, and then grinding it in a mill | with the mill-stones set so far apart that the grain is deprived of its husk, all but that which remains in the furrow, rounded and polished. Barley—continued. Scotch Barley differs from the Pearl by not being rounded so completely. Scotch Pearl Barley and French Pearl Barley are very much the same, but are smaller, being pre- pared from the winter grain. Baked Barley Pudding. — Put 4 “breakfast-cupfuls of boiled Barley into a basin with \ toacupful of black molasses, 3oz. of finely-shred beef-suet, two eggs, 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk or water. Mix them thoroughly, put the preparation into a buttered pie-dish, place it in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Take it out when done, and serve. If desired, 1 breakfast-cupful of stoned raisins may be sprinkled on the top, but must not bo stirred in, or they will sink to the bottom. Barley Beverage.—Put 1 teaspoonful of ground Barley into a basin, and make it into a smooth paste by adding about 1 table-spoonful of cold water. Put it in a saucepan, pour over gradually lqt. of boiling water, and boil for ten minutes, stirring frequently; let it get cold, strain off the liquor, pour it into a basin or bowl, add the juice and rind of half a lemon, and sufficient sugar, honey, or capillaire to sweeten ; let the mixture stand for an hour or so, strain it, and it is ready for use. Barley Broth. — Put a trimmed sheep’s head, or 21b. of fleshy shin of beef, in ) gallon of water, add 1 teacupful of well-washed and strained Pearl Barley, two sliced onions, a few sprigs of parsley, half-a-dozen peeled and sliced old potatoes, and a little thyme ; season with pepper and salt, and simmer for three or four hours. This broth should be frequently stirred to prevent the meat and vegetables settling at the bottom and burning. Solve very hot. Barley Cream.— (1) Take lib. of chicken flesh, veal, beef, or other full-flavoured lean meat, and mince, or pass through a mincing machine if possible. Put this in lqt. of cold water, and add 1 piled table-spoonful of Pearl Barley and 1 teaspoon- ful of salt. Simmer slowly for two or three hours. When required, pound the meat and Barley in a mortar, and rub through a sieve with the gravy; add more salt to taste, and when cool stir in J pint of cream. Bice is sometimes used instead of the Barley. Serve in a breakfast-cup, lukewarm. Care should be taken that the meat is quite freed from fat and skin. (2) Put lib. of Pearl Barley into a stewpan with 2qts. of water, a little salt, and butter the size of a fowl’s egg; cover the stewpan, bring the liquid to the boil, and remove it back to simmer, stirring the Barley from time to time. An hour or so after, drain off the water and work the Barley briskly with a wooden spoon to smash it; moisten by degrees with 3qts. of white broth. Let this boil for an hour at the side of the fire, and then pass the whole through a sieve, and afterwards, if required to be very fine, through a tammy- cloth. This “ cream ” must now be put into a stewpan and boiled up. Add to it 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar and ilb. of chopped-up large macaroni, previously boiled in water to make it full and soft. Break six eggs, put the yolks into a basin, and beat them up with 2 piled table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan; add 1 pinch of powdered nutmeg, dilute with l pint of raw cream, and with this mixture thicken the cream over the fire without letting it do more than simmer. (3) Put a piece of butter the size of a duck’s egg into a stewpan, melt it, and mix in 6 piled table-spoonfuls of Pearl Barley ; let it stew for two or three minutes, then moisten it with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water, and add 1 pinch of salt. When this begins to boil, cover the stewpan, and remove it to the side of the fire to simmer. Boil the Barley in this way for two hours, adding a little rich clear broth from time to time. When the Barley is quite soft and done, take it off the fire, and smash it with a spoon in the same stewpan. Pass the whole through a sieve, lighten with more broth if required, and again strain it. Let it boil once more, stirring it, and then immediately it bubbles remove it to the side of the fire to simmer as before. In half-an-hour’s time skim the fat off the soup, thicken it with the well-beaten yolks of five eggs, and flavour with a little nutmeg and 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar.