38 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Apples —continued. syrup carefully after you have taken out the Apples, add the lemon-juice, put in the lemon-peel, and boil till quite transparent. Arrange the Apples on a dish, and pour the syrup over and around them. (4) A very pretty compote was prepared by Francatelli thus : Cut the Apples in halves, scoop out the cores neatly, either trim or peel them in straight bands of equal breadths, and as each is turned out of hand, drop it into some acidulated water; simmer in 28deg. syrup (see Syrups) until the Apples are partially done through, and allow them to steep in their syrup in a basin until they are cold and ready to be dished up. Drain them well on a napkin, and place in the dish. Decorate the compote with angelica, the red peel of apples, and different sorts of preserves, all previously cut in thin sheets or slices, and stamped out with tin cutters in orna- mental shapes to form tasteful designs upon each piece of Apple, representing wreaths, stars, &c. Cover the whole with a thin sheet of Apple Jelly. Crisped Apples.—Pare and core some medium-sized cooking Apples, put them into a bowl with sufficient syrup, well flavoured with lemon, to cover them, and let them remain for several hours. Take them out, roll well in flour, plunge into a frying- pan of boiling lard, and fry until done and of a good colour. Take them out, drain, put on a dish, pour sweet sauce over or round them, and serve. Dried American Crab-Apples.—Cut the stalks to about an inch in length of the required quantity of American Crab-Apples, prick them, and put them into a preserving-pan with sufficient syrup of 22 deg. (see Syrups) to cover them, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for ten minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, cover the Apples over with leaves, and let them remain in the syrup for a day. Drain off the syrup, return it without the Apples to the preserving-pan or sugar- boiler, boil up, skim well, and pour over the Apples. Repeat this operation twice more. Take out the Apples, drain them on a sieve, and dry thoroughly in the hot closet. Add the juice of a lemon to a sufficient quantity of syrup at 35 deg., working it against the side of the boiler until it becomes of a dull appearance; plunge in the Apples, toss them up in it, take them out carefully, put them in a strainer in the hot closet, and let them dry for about an hour. Pack them in layers in boxes, with paper between them, and they are ready for use. Dried Apples.—Put the Apples into boiling water until soft, then remove, peel carefully, and place them on a strainer, under which is a dish to catch the juice. Place the peeled fruits in an oven, about hot enough to bake bread, and let them remain there for twenty-four hours. When taken out and cooled, the Apples may be pressed flat by a board with weights upon it. When set, dip them in their own juice, and pack away in boxes or jars. Florentine Mode of Preparing Apples.—Peel seven or eight of the best cooking Apples procurable, remove the cores, and hollow out the inside with a column-tube. Boil them in e light acidulated syrup: 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice to 5 pint of syrup is sufficient. Keep them a little firm and whole. Drain them, and fill the cavities with boiled sweetened rice, and mask the aperture with apricot marmalade. Spread on a dish a layer of chestnut puree, which is made by baking for a few minutes two or three dozen chestnuts, and after skinning and cleaning them, boiling them in water until they mash easily with cream, flavouring with vanilla, sweetening with sugar, and stiffening with eggs. Place the Apples on this layer, glaze them by means of a paste-brush with apricot marmalade, and put into a hot oven for a few minutes. When thoroughly heated through, sprinkle freely with chopped pistachios, and serve. Fried Apples.—There is scarcely a restaurant in New York where this dish cannot be obtained, especially as a comple- ment to salt pork; it has an excellent repute for its tasty qualities, and is described thus: It consists essentially of slices of unpeeled Apple, fried in bacon or pork fat. A com- petent authority (Whitehead) advises that only “five or six slices should be fried at a time, flat in a large frying-pan, with no more pork fat (or butter) than just enough to cover the bottom. When the slices are brown on one side, turn over with a knife.” When they are thrown into a dripping-pan and cooked in the oven, whether they are a success or not Apples—continued. very inuch depends upon careful draining. Sometimes it is as well to dip the slices in flour before frying; and if soaked for a time in rum or cognac, the result is very gratifying. Glazed Apple Marmalade.—Pare and core eight or nine large Apples, put them in a saucepan with a little water, and cook to a pulp. Rub this through a fine sieve, put it back into the saucepan, and add two-thirds of its bulk in crushed loaf sugar, and a little lemon-zest tied up in a muslin bag. Put the saucepan back on the fire, and stir constantly until the moisture is greatly reduced. Take out the zest, and turn the Apple pulp out on to a dish, smooth its surface with a knife, sprinkle it over freely with caster sugar, and glaze it with a red-hot skewer or small iron bar, making a pattern like a small rosette. Cut a few finger biscuits in triangular-shaped pieces, put them round the rosette on top of the Apple, and serve. Minced Apples.—Pare and core five or six good Apples, and cut them up into pieces about the size of small nuts. Place these in a stewpan with 6oz. of sugar, and the thin peel of half a lemon. Pour on water to three-quarters of their height, and to this add the juice of two or three lemons. Cover the stewpan and set it on the fire. Let it boil up once or twice, and then remove. When the syrup is cold, remove the lemon-peel, and pour out on to a deep dish; sprinkle over this some well- cleansed currants. Minced Apples -with. Crodtons.—Mince seven or eight Apples, and put them into a flat stewpan with some butter, 5oz. of powdered sugar, a little orange or lemon flavouring, and vanilla. Toss the Apples over a quick fire till their moisture is reduced, and they are set, but not done too much so as to fall. Cut some slices of bread, and shape them into triangles; cut five or six of them into strips, and one quite round. Put these into a flat stewpan with some butter, and colour a golden-brown. Drain them, and sprinkle over with powdered sugar. Place the Apple Mince on the centre of a dish, smooth over to a handsome dome, and surround with the Fig. 39. Minced Apples with Croutons of Fried Bread. crusts, as shown in Fig. 39. On the centre form a rosette with the round and slips. The crusts may be ornamented with coloured jams or marmalades to form an exceedingly pretty dish. Miroton of Apples.—To the incomparable Soyer we owe so many of our best dishes that no apology is needed for repro- ducing this. Procure a dozen Russet Apples, which cut into slices {in. in thickness; peel and take out the cores with a round cutter. Next put 2oz. of butter into a saute-pan, spread it over the bottom of the pan, and lay in the Apples, with |lb. of powdered sugar and the juice of two lemons. Stew gently over a moderate fire. They are done when they yield readily to pressure. Dress them rather high in a crown shape upon the dish. Melt 3 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly in a small pan, mix with it a wineglassful of Madeira wine, and pour over the Apples. This is a beautiful dish for many purposes, and is very easy of preparation. Orange and Apple Tart.—See Oranges. Preservation of Apples. — Let the Apples remain upon the trees until frost sets in, when they should be carefully picked by hand, put into close casks, and kept as dry and cool as possible. If suffered to lie on the floor for weeks, they will wither and lose their flavour, without acquiring any additional durability. Bought Apples should be carefully examined one by one to see that they are not bruised or rotten, and then be packed away in tubs or boxes of well-dried sand. The sand must be thoroughly dry, or it will be worse than use- less to put Apples in it to keep. Lay the Apples singly, and