191 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary riocesscs, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Bread—continued. Raspings are properly the outside of an over-baked loaf, removed by a roll-rasp (see Fig. 191); but they can be equally well prepared by baking odd pieces of Bread until a light brown, crushing them with a rolling-pin, and passing through a sieve. Either may be put by in a tin until wanted. Biscuit-powder is used for a similar purpose to the above. Broken-Bread Pudding.—This is a good way of using up any stale pieces of Bread, no matter how stale they may be so long as they are not mouldy. Put enough pieces into a large dish to fill it, with as much milk as the Bread will take up; add 3 table-spoonfuls of well-minced kidney suet, and 1 pinch of salt; beat in two or three eggs, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of stoned raisins and currants in equal proportions, and a little nutmeg. Baker" in a greased pie- dish for an-hour-and-a-half. Brown or Black-Bread Pudding.—Put G table-spoonfuls of caster sugar into a basin, break in one at a time three eggs, and beat up with a spoon; then add', one at a time, the yolks of three more eggs, reserving the whites for further use. When the mixture is frothy, stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of scraped chocolate, J teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a small quantity of finely-shred lemon-peel. Soak fib. of grated crumb of brown or black Bread in some red wine; blanch and chop 6oz. of almonds, or use Goz. of ground almonds, and chop finely 4oz. of candied lemon-peel. Mix all these ingredients together, then stir in the well-whipped whites of the three eggs. Butter a pudding-mould, dredge in some flour, and shake out all that does not adhere to the mould. Pour the mixture into the mould, cover it with a sheet of paper, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour some chocolate sauce over it, and serve. Brown-Bread Biscuits.—Dissolve 2oz. of butter in 1 break- fast-cupful of boiling water, and mix in lib. of fine flour and brown Breadcrumbs in equal proportions; mix all well together and knead it. Lay the dough on a table, and roll out to about fin. in thickness ; then cut into round shapes with a biscuit-cutter, dock, and bake in a quick oven. Brown-Bread Brewis.—Pull in pieces about lin. long 1 tea- cupful of dry white Bread and 2 teacupfuls of brown Bread. Put 2oz. of butter in a frying-pan, and when it is melted, put in the Bread and 1 pint or If pints of milk; place it on the fire and let it simmer, stirring to keep it from sticking. When the milk is all absorbed and the Bread soft, stir in 1 pinch of salt, and serve. Brown-Bread Cream Ice.—(1) Dry the crust of brown Bread in an oven, roll it, and sift it. Beat up 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar with half that quantity of flour and two eggs, turn this into 1 pint of boiling milk in a saucepan, and stir well, cooking for about twenty minutes, and stirring continuously. Let it cool, add about 1 pint of the Breadcrumbs, a little more sugar, and lqt. of cream. Turn the preparation into the freezer, let it set, and it is then ready for use. (2) Grate finely about a breakfast-cupful of the very best stale brown Bread, soak it for half-an-hour in lqt. of cream, and then rather over-sweeten it. Have ready a freezer packed with a freezing mixture composed of one part salt to throe parts pounded ice, put the cream into the freezer, and freeze it. Brown-Bread Ice.— Finely grate the crumb of sufficient brown Bread to fill 2 breakfast-cupfuls ; then boil 1 pint of cream or milk, and pour it over the Breadcrumbs, flavouring with 1 breakfast-cupful of noyeau or maraschino syrup. When nearly cold, turn the mixture into a freezing-pot, and work it till frozen; then put it into a mould, and pack it in pounded ico and salt for two hours. When ready to serve, dip tho mould into tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. Brown-Bread Budding1.—Take Jib. of brown Breadcrumbs, the same of currants (well washed), and the same of suet chopped fine; add 1 wincglassful of brandy or liqueur, Jib. of moist sugar, and 1 wineglassful'of cream. Beat six yolks and four whites of eggs well together, and mix with the other ingredients. Pour all into a buttered baking-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours. When done, turn out, and mask with wine sauce and sugar dusted over the top. Bread—continued. Crodton of Fried Bread.—This is used for serving roasted poultry or game, in pairs or fours—a pillar for the birds to lean against. Cut off all the crust of a loaf of Bread, and trim the crumb into a block, 8in. high, Gin. square at tho base, and taper it off to 3Jin. square at' the top (see Fig. 205). Put a large lump of clarified fat or lard in a pan, and place it over Fig. 205. Large Crouton of Fried Bread for Mounting Roasted Poultry or Game. the fire until it begins to boil; then put in the Broad, fry it, and turn it until nicely browned on all sides. When fried, drain the Bread for a minute or two on a sieve, or elso on a piece of paper in front of tho fire. To stick it on a dish, a paste should bo made of flour and whito-of-egg, which will hold the crouton firm enough for almost any purpose that is likely to be required of it. Devilled Bread for Breakfast.—These little pieces form capital appetisers after a night’s dissipation. Cut off the crust from a slice of toasted Broad, and keep it hot in tho oven. Put 1 teaspoonful of butter into a basin, beat it soft but not oiled, add gradually J teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, and a little cayonne, and mix until quite smooth. Spread the mixture over the piece of toast, and serve hot. Egg1 Bread in Soup.—Beat the yolks of two eggs, and add tho white of one whilst beating, with sufficient flour to make a hard dough. Put this in a very slow oven to dry, and then with a very coarse Bread-grater grate it on to a large board and let it get perfectly dry and crisp, when it can bo sprinkled lightly into a boiling beef soup and sent to table. French - Roll Fritters. — Cut the rolls, lengthwise, into moderately thick slices ; put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, dip the slices of rolls in beaten egg, then fry them in the butter until nicely browned on both sides. As each slice is fried, take it out of the pan and put itjon a sieve to drain. Prepare a syrup with 11b. of loaf sugar and lqt. of water, and put the slices into it while it is hot. In ten minutes’ time take tho slices out of the syrup, arrange them tastefully on a dish, sprinkle a few drops of rose-water over them, and serve. French-Roll Pudding1.—Cut a roll into thin slices, leaving tho crust on, and put these in a deep dish. Beat two eggs with 1 pint of milk, and season it with caster sugar and nutmeg to taste. Pour the mixture over the Bread; and leave it to soak for an hour. At the end of that time, take tho pieees of Bread out of the milk, put them on a sieve, and let them drain for an hour. Fry tho pieces of roll in butter till nicely browned, then drain them, arrange them on a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper on a dish, and serve them with a sauceboatful of sauce, prepared in the following way : Put 2oz. of butter in a small saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of flour, and stir over tho fire till well mixed; then pour in J pint of hot milk, flavour it with a little grated nutmeg or lemon-peel, and sweeten it to taste with coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, and then mix 1 wineglassful each of sherry and brandy with it, when it will be ready.