218 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred, to, see under their special heads. Butter—continued. fin. in thickness, cut it into small rounds, prick these all over, put them on buttered baking-sheets, and bake in a moderate oven. Butter Jack.—Put lib. of fresh Butter into a stewpan to melt, and stir in fib. of caster sugar and 1 wineglassful of sherry. Beat up six eggs with a little sherry, and having moderately cooled the pan, pour in two bottles of sherry gently, and then stir in the eggs. Let this remain at the side of the fire till quite hot, but do not let it boil; add sugar to taste. Butter Biolls.—See Bread. Butterscotch.—See Toffy. Butter Soup.—Peel two each of carrots, turnips, and onions, cut them into quarters, put them in a saucepan with two chopped-up sticks of celery and a bunch of sweet herbs; pour 2qts. of water over, and boil. When the vegetables are soft, strain through a fine hair sieve, return the liquor to the saucepan, and boil it up again. Warm 3oz. of Butter, and beat it until creamy, then mix with it C table-spoonfuls of flour and six eggs ; stir the Butter until quite smooth; season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Let the Butter run in a thin stream into the boiling vegetable water, boil the soup for five minutes, then turn it into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. It would be difficult to find any valuable article, whether culinary or otherwise, which is not flattered by imitations. The two following receipts may be classed rather as substitutes than imitations, and as they sliai-e with Butter certain distinct domestic qualifications, they claim to be described under a heading that can otherwise scarcely be considered to belong to them. Black Butter.—Boil any kind of fruit, either apples, straw- berries, raspberries, gooseberries, currants, rhubarb, or any other fruit that may be at hand, in a saucepan with lib. of moist sugar to each 21b. of fruit until the quantity is reduced to two-thirds of what it originally was. Put it into pots, and use as a substitute for Butter. Spanish. Butter.—Put 1 wineglassful of rose-water into an enamelled saucepan, and dissolve in it at a gentle heat %oz. of isinglass ; put in also a few bitter almonds, blanched and sliced, and let it stand near the fire until the isinglass is dissolved. Beat up the yolks of three eggs with | pint of cream, and add ; sweeten, and stir on the stove until thick; take it off, and continue stirring until cold. Wet a small mould with rose-water, and fill it. When set, turn out on a glass dish, and garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley. BUTTERINE.—This is a preparation introduced to us from New York as a substitute for butter. It is a slightly coloured mixture of animal fats, which an authority states is, when fresh, quite as wholesome as butter. It is easily distinguished from butter because it retains a good deal of the crumbling characteristics of the dripping from which it is made. By heating it the smell of the dripping soon betrays its origin. By Act of Parliament it is now termed in this country “ margarine.” BUTTER-MILK.—This is the fluid that remains in the churn after the butter has been removed from the cream. As a nutritious and pleasant drink, fresh Butter- milk cannot be excelled, and it is a great addition to fruit puddings, useful in making cakes, and is said to allay nervous irritability brought on by drinking strong- tea. In some parts of the country it is usual to put Butter-milk into a linen bag, and after the whey has drained through serve the remaining curds with cream and caster sugar. Butter-milk Biscuits.—Sift 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda into lqt. of flour, and add a little salt. Make a hollow in the centre of the flour, pour in 1 pint of Butter-milk, make it into a dough, and use great care in rolling it out, as it should be as soft as possible. Press it with the hands perfectly flat to knead it. Let it remain for five or ten minutes to allow the soda to dissolve, and then knead it Butter-milk—continued. again. Cut it into shapes with a cutter, dock (see Biscuits), and bake on a greased baking-sheet in a moderate oven. Butter-milk Bread.—See- Bread. Butter-milk Cakes.—Bub into 21b. of biscuit-flour |lb. of butter, add 1 teacupful each of stoned raisins and well- washed currants, about half that quantity of minced candied peel, and 1 teacupful of sugar. Mix well, and add 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking-powder, 2 teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. When sufficiently mixed, make into a stiff dough with Butter-milk, form into cakes, put these into greased moulds, and bake. Butter-milk Cream Ice.—Boil 3 pints of sweet milk, and add the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four well beaten together ; let this thicken, stirring all the time, and then take it off to cool. When quite cold, stir in lgall. of Butter-milk very slowly, and add sugar and flavouring to taste. When done, put it on the ice and let it freeze. Butter-milk Pudding.—Put 2qts. of fresh milk over the fire, and when it boils add lqt. of Butter-milk. Strain it, and mix with the curd the grated rind of a lemon, one small grated nutmeg, Coz. of butter melted to oil, i pint of cream, the beaten whites of four eggs, the beaten yolks of nine eggs, and the sifted crumb of two rolls; sweeten to taste, and bake it or boil it for an-hour-and-tln-ee-quarters. BUTTER-NUT.—This fruit is sometimes known as tlie “White Walnut” (Juglans cinerea), and, like some other things that are not good for much, has been some- what freely exported from the United States to this Fig. 240. Butter-nut, showing (1) Flower, (2)Fruits, and (3) Catkins. country. The nut (see Pig. 240) is 2in. or Sin. long, has a hard, thick, dense shell, covered with viscid matter when growing, and an oily, almost flavourless, kernel. It has no culinary use, and is rarely purchased by the average Englishman, excepting as a curiosity. BUTTERY. — The room in a house set apart for keeping butter, milk, and other provisions. Hence the term comes to be more liberally applied to the stores of a university or other extensive establishment. BUTYRIC ACID.—The acid obtained from rancid butter, and considered very injurious to health. CABARET.—Fr. for a public-house, but in domestic circles it has come to denote a tea-board. CABBAGES {Fr. Choux; Ger. Kohln; Ital. Cavoli; Sp. Berza, Kols).—This term is applied to a very extensive variety of esculent vegetables, comprehending amongst others, white and red or “pickling” Cabbages, Savoy Cabbages, Brussels Sprouts, Broccoli, Cauliflowers, and