THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 231 Sauces, £c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Cakes—continued. with a little paste, the same as used for making' rout Cakes, shading it, and also making a large artificial leaf. This Cake, although it will take a little practice to make well, will repay for its trouble by its appearance. Cakes Stuffed •with Cream.—Beat six eggs with 3 table- spoonfuls of flour; when smooth, mix in 1 pint of cream or milk, pour all into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire until it coats the spoon, but do not let it boil. Bub some lumps of loaf sugar over the rind of a lemon or orange (about Jib. of sugar), then put them in with the milk, and add 2oz. of crushed ratafias and a wineglassful of brandy. Put 2oz. of butter into a frying-pan, and when browned a little stir in the frangipane. Prepare and divide some puff paste and roll out into two sheets, one larger and thicker than the other; put the mixture in the centre of the smallest round, wet tho rim, and cover with the other; notch the edges, bake, dust with caster sugar, and glaze with a sala- mander. When cold, cut it into pieces 2 Jin. long and lin. wide. Arrange these pieces tastefully upon a folded napkin laid on a dish, and serve. Cakes Stuffed, with Jam.—(1) This is made as for Cakes Stuffed with Cream, putting either greengage, apricot, or strawberry jam in place of the frangipane ; bake for kalf-an- hour instead of three-quarters-of-an-hour. (2) Boll Jib. of puff paste into a long strip 3in. wide and nearly Jin. thick; put some rolls of jam, 1 Jin. long and 1 Jin. apart, in the centre of the strip, the rolls should bo about as thick as the middle finger; wet the edges all along, fold the paste over, and press it carefully all round the jam, then cut through each division with a knife. Sprinkle a little water on a baking-sheet, put the Cakes on it, draw a fancy design with the point of a knife on each, nearly cutting through the paste, then egg them over, and bake lightly in a moderate oven. When cooked, take them out of the oven, sprinkle caster sugar over, and glaze with a red-hot salamander. Put a border of apple marmalade on a dish, arrange the Cakes on it, and serve. • Camp Cakes.— Put 12oz. of flour on to a board, make a bay, and work in 4oz. of warmed butter, a little salt, and seven eggs. Should the paste be too stiff, add another egg or so. Cover the whole with a cloth, and set it in a cool place, with a little flour sprinkled over it. Cut the paste into quarters, roll each of them round, then cut into slices, flour slightly, and plunge into a saucepan of boiling water, keeping them as much apart as possible. The pieces of paste will drop to tho bottom of the saucepan, but when they are done through they will rise, and must be taken out with a skimmer. Put them into a basin of cold water, let them remain for about five hours; take out and drain, put them on a baking-sheet, keeping them a little apart, and bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. When done, take the Cakes out, open them at the sides, mask inwardly with warmed butter, and serve as hot as possible. Canadian Cakes.—Mix together lib. of flour, -fib. of sugar, Jib. of maizena, and 1 pinch of salt, and rub into it Jib. of butter. Beat well eight eggs, and add to the flour, with Jib. of currants, washed and dried, Jib. of finely-chopped candied Fig. 257. Shallow Cake-ring. peel, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. When well mixed, put the Cakes into shallow baking-rings (see Fig. 257), lined with paper dipped in warmed butter, and bako for half-an-hour. Capital Cake.—Mix 41b. of sifted flour with 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, rub in 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, and then add lib. of caster sugar, six lightly-beaten eggs, and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, with 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in it. Flavour with nutmeg or essence of lemon. Put in a greased tin, and bake until done. Cakes—continued. Carnival Cakes.—These Continental favourites aro made as follows : Beat up two eggs in 1 gill of milk, and add gradually Jib. of flour. Let it remain for three hours, and then work in sufficient flour to make a dough. Boll out thin, cut into rounds about 9in. in diameter, and with a sharp knife cut four parallel lines to within lin. of the sides. This will form Fig. 253. Carnival Cake. two handles by which each Cake must be lifted (see Fig. 258); put them into hot fat, and fry to a light yellow colour. Pile them on a dish, and sprinkle sugar over. The Cakes should be eaten cold, and as they will not keep, not more should be made than wanted at one time. Chantilly Cake.—Stand a basin in a larger ono containing hot water, and break in five eggs; put in 1 teacupful of caster sugar, and whisk them for ten minutes, then take the basin out of the hot water and whisk a few minutes longer; sift in 6 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it till quite smooth. Butter tho inside of a cylinder-mould, sprinkle caster sugar over it, then pour in the Cake mixture, and if the preparation fills tho mould tio a strip of buttered paper round it, making it so that it comes about ljin. above the rim of the mould. Bake in a moderate oven. Whip J pint of rich cream with a little caster sugar till quite firm, and flavour it to taste. Turn the Cake out when cooked, fill the hollow with the cream, and serve. Chausson Cakes.—Boll Jib. of puff paste into a piece 18in. long by 3in. wide, and pare off the edges neatly. Cut out four square pieces, all the same size, and with a pastry-brush moisten the surfaces with beaten egg. Fold up each piece by laying ono corner over the other, so that they aro triangular Fig. 259. Ciiausson Cakes. (see Fig. 259). Put them on a baking-sheet in the oven for twenty minutes, remove to the oven door, dredge plenty of powdered sugar over, put back, and close the door for one- minute-and-a-half, to allow the sugar to melt thoroughly. Bemove them from tho oven, and cool for twenty minutes. The Cakes will have risen about 2in. in front. Then, with the thickest part of a larding-needle, make a hollow in front of each Cake. Put 3oz. of red-currant jelly into a paper