175 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dee., referred to, see under their special heads. Braising—continued. that was done in the oven on the hearth, with coals under and on top, and that has always been declared to beat anything the city cooks ever do now—knows better what we are doing when we set about braising. It may as well be stated at once that there is no method that is good that the masters of French cookery have not adopted, and where possible improved upon, and they have made the best possible use of this method of cooking with the steam shut in and little or no water, simmering the meat in its own gravy and fat, keeping the outside soft and free from crust and discoloration, even while getting it shining brown. And not content only to make the meat tender (for the toughest goose even can be dissolved into soup-meat by this way of cooking), they delighted to change the flavour of the meats, and make them seem like something else, by adding large proportions of vegetables and an undue allowance of spices. The great use of braising with us is to make the tough and dry and undesirable pieces of meat or fowl or game tender, and even delicious eating, by slow cooking in little more liquor than their own gravy; and we shall do well, if we would please the taste of the generality of people, not to throw into the skillet or oven the multifarious seasonings of the French style, but follow the home practice of only an onion pepper, and salt, and perhaps a few sprigs of garden herbs.” Delamere says of braising: “ The pan is contrived to have a lid which will hold lighted charcoal on the top (see Fig. 185). The viands to be cooked are therefore be- tween two fires — one above and one beneath. The opera- tion must be performed slowly, and requires great care. The cover must fit so closely as to prevent all evaporation, causing the meat to be thoroughly impregnated with the flavour of the vegetables and aromatics employed; and carrot, onion, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, and cloves are indispensable to a braise, and they may be increased or varied by chervil, knotted marjoram, celery, red wine, Madeira, and other flavours. Everything braised must be thoroughly done, and allowed to take its proper time. For instance, braised leg of mutton is otherwise known as gigot de sept heures (seven-hours’ leg of mutton).” To prevent the meat from burning, a round of buttered paper cut to the size of the stewpan may be placed on the top of the meat, care being taken that it may not drop into the gravy. This piece of paper must be lifted each time of basting. It is to be hoped that braising will be soon numbered amongst our favourite culinary processes, for it is not only economical, but savoury. Several suitable receipts will be found under various heads of meat, poultry, and game. BRAN (Fr. Son; Ger. Kleie).—The inner husk or covering of wheat and other grains. It is not much used in cooking, although it is sometimes employed as food for the production of yeast for bakers; it also forms an important item in some forms of brown bread. Bran Tea.—Take of frosli wheat Bran lib., and boil in 3qts. of water down to lqt. ; strain, and add sugar, honey, or treacle to taste. BRANCINO.—There are few fish so highly esteemed amongst Venetian gourmets as this. It is a native of the Adriatic, and slightly resembles our pike, to which species it is in a measure allied. The body has a vigorous appearance, is well and flesliily constructed, slightly compressed about its middle, and sloping towards the back. The head is small, and much shorter than that of any other fish of its kind (see Fig. 186). Brancino—continued. The large fish are boiled in salt and water, or court- bouillon, but the smaller ones are considered better if fried. The larger fish when boiled in court-bouillon are best served hot, with Genoese or matelote sauce; and Fig. 186. Brancino. those cooked in salt and water require oyster or Dutch sauce. It has a capital appearance served with jelly, half-coated with it, garnished with croutons of aspic, and served with mayonnaise sauce. BRANDADE(S). — This name is applied to dishes made of codfish cut into little pieces, pounded, with the addition of garlic, parsley, lemon-juice, and pepper, and beaten up with olive oil to form a paste of about the consistence of cream cheese. It is sometimes known also under the name of Branlade, and is a great favourite in Provence. In Montpellier it is prepared as follows: (1) Take about l|lb. of salted codfish, divide it into squares, and soak for two or three days in fresh water, changing the water repeatedly. Clean thoroughly, and put into a stewpan with plenty of cold water, cover over, and set on a quick fire. Directly the water boils, draw the pan to one side, and lot it simmer for a quarter-of-an-hour. Remove the fish with a skimmer, drain on a sieve, remove bones, and put the pieces of meat and the skin in a basin. Chop up two or three shallots and a large onion, and fry in 2 table-spoonfuls of oil; when those are of a brown colour, add the cod, warm it, put it into a mortar, and well pound it. Put the paste thus made into a pan, and whilst stirring with a spoon, work in 1 teacup- ful of good salad oil. Continue to work up until all the oil is absorbed, and then add the juice of two lemons, adding 1 breakfast-cupful more of oil by degrees. Add to this when creamy, a few table-spoonfuls of cream ; season with pepper, nutmeg, salt, and a pinch or two of chopped parsley. Work up again, and add the juice of a third lemon. “ It should now,” says Dubois, “ be of a good consistence, but delicato, smooth, and relishing.” The secret of its manufacture is continuous working with the spoon after pounding the fish, in order to keep the oil thoroughly incorporated. Warm up, pile on a dish in a dome-shape, and sprinklo with chopped truffles. Place on the top of the Brandade a whole truffle, fill the croustades with crayfish-tails, and surround the croustades on the dish with scallops of fish and truffles alternately, and the space between the croustades looks well fortified with a pyramid of oyster patties (see Fig. 187). Fig. 187. Brandade of Salted Codfish. (2) Take a piece of cod and steep it in water until nearly all the saltness has disappeared; then put it in a stewpan nearly full of water, and place it on the fire to boil. When it has boiled up, cover the pan and let it simmer for a few minutes, or until the fish is quite done. Then take out the