THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 104 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, do., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. it over with salt and pepper, and cover it with any stuffing prepared. Roll it over, tie it with string, and cook in a frying-pan with a little pork fat or dripping. When done, remove the string, dish up, pour some hot gravy over it, and serve. If preferred cold, cut into slices before serving. Beef Salad.—Take lib. of lean cold boiled Beef, the rump part for preference, remove all the fat, and cut it into pieces l£in. in length, as thinly as possible. Place the pieces in a bowl, season with 1 pinch of salt, pinch of pepper, and two medium-sized cooked and sliced potatoes, also 1 pinch of parsley, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and the same of sweet oil. Mix all well together, arrange in a salad bowl, decorate with six medium-sized pickles, or beets, and serve. Beef Sausages.—Cut off the fat and remove the sinews from 121b. of Beef, and mince it very fine with 1 teacupful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of saltpetre. Mince also 61b. of lean pork and 21b. of lean bacon, mix this up with the Beef, and add 4 table-spoonfuls of pepper and 2 table- spoonfuls each of powdered pimento and coriander. When the mince is very fine, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and stir it in. Have ready some entrails of a good size, squeeze the mixture into them, tie them round, or twist them, the length required for the sausages, and put them to smoke for a couple of days (see Cubing). Put them into a sauce- pan with some stock, boil them until the liquor is discernible under the skin, take them out, and wrap them round with a cloth. When they are quite cold, they are ready for use. Beef Soup.—Put 21b. of the lower portion of a round of Beef (Fig. 102, 5) into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, add a bay-leaf, six cloves, an onion, a veal-bone, and any Beef trimmings that may be handy. Boil well until the meat is done and tender, skimming frequently. Pour the soup through a fine sieve into another saucepan, boil up once more, and stir in a thickening of butter rolled in flour. Put 2 breakfast- cupfuls of any finely-chopped vegetables into the soup, as well as an equal quantity of the cooked meat also chopped up, cover over the pan, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for about an hour, skimming frequently. Add salt and pepper to taste, half a lemon cut in slices, and 1 table- spoonful of walnut ketchup; stir well, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. Beef Soup a l’Anglaise.—Cut up into small squares ilb. of raw, lean Beef; brown these pieces a little in a saucepan on the hot range, then moisten with 3 pints of broth. Add i pint of finely-chopped vegetable soup, a handful of pearl barley, and i pinch each of salt and pepper. Boil thoroughly for half-an-hour, and a few moments before serving put in one medium-sized sliced tomato. Taste to see if sufficiently seasoned, then pour the soup into a hot tureen, and send to the table. Beef Soup a l’Ecossaise.—Brown in a little fat, in a sauce- pan, ilk of small squares of lean Beef and a sliced onion, and moisten with 3 pints of broth, adding \ breakfast-cupful of oatmeal, 1 small glass of Madeira wine, £ table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Let it cook for thirty minutes, then serve. Beef-steak with Anchovy Butter.—For an ordinary-sized steak, take one large anchovy, which should bo well washed and dried, and pounded on a board with the back of a knife—- the mortar is not required for so small a quantity. Mix the anchovy with l|oz. of butter, pass through a hair sieve, put on a warm dish, lay the steak on the anchovy butter, and serve. Beef-steak Carpet-hag.—Cut off a steak about 2in. thick from the rump of Beef, and split it three-quarters of the way through, taking care not to injure the sides. Fill it inwardly with thick oyster sauce, skewer or sew it up, and put it on a broiler over a clear fire. When done, put the steak on a hot dish, remove the skewer or string, dust liberally with salt and pepper, spread over 1 table-spoonful or more of warmed butter, and serve as hot as possible. This is better known as Steak a la Chateaubriand. Beef-steak and Kidney Pudding.—Cut lib. of long Rump- steak (Fig. 115) into pieces, about ^in. thick, and sprinkle these over with salt and pepper and a little flour. Chop up an ox- kidney into seven or eight pieces, put these with the meat into a buttered basin lined with suet-crust, pour over 4 or Beef—continued. 5 table-spoonfuls of water or weak stock, cover over with a flat of the paste, and fasten it all round the edge. Tie a well-floured cloth over the basin, put it into a saucepan with lgall. or so of water, and boil for about two hours, adding more boiling water to keep up the quantity. When done, turn the pudding carefully on to a dish, and serve very hot. Fig. 115. Long Rump-steak. Beef-steak Pie.— (1) For preference choose steak that has been hung; cut up ljlb. of it into moderate-sized pieces, and trim off all the skin and sinews. Season with pepper, salt, and minced shallot or onion. Lay them in a dish (which may have a nice crust in it, according to taste), with two kidneys cut up, and two eggs boiled hard and cut into quarters lengthwise. Arrange nicely, with pieces of fat here and there, put a lump of butter here and there, and 1 breakfast- cupful of water poured in, but not over, or it will wash the seasoning down. Cover it with a thick crust, and bake it in a moderate oven until done. Chopped tomatoes or mush- rooms are sometimes added to flavour. (2) Cut the steaks into small pieces, and dust them on each side with flour, pepper, and salt. Arrange them in the dish, intermingling with them a small proportion of fat. A few pieces of kidney, pork, or veal, with two or three hard- boiled eggs in quarters, make an agreeable variety in the con- tents of the pie. Pour over 1 gill of well-seasoned stock, cover with a rather thick crust, and bake thoroughly. Serve hot. (3) Cut up 21b. of lean Beef into small squares, add two sliced onions, and stew them together in a saucepan with some butter for ten minutes; stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix well; moisten with lqt. of water, or thin broth, still stirring. Season with | pinch each of salt and pepper, and add a bouquet of sweet herbs. Let it cook for twenty minutes, take out the bouquet, and fill a deep dish with the preparation. Cut two hard-boiled eggs into shoes, lay them on top of the meat, and cover with a plain crust; glaze the surface with yolk of egg, and bake the pie till it is a light-brown colour ; then serve. (4) American Style.—Proceed the same as for No. 3, but using in place of the eggs six or eight potatoes cut in small pieces, and cooked with the Beef. Beef-steak Pie with Oysters.—Cut six or seven thin slices out of the sirloin or fillet of Beef, beat them, season them with salt and pepper, flour them, and range them in a pio-