TITE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 88 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads BAVAROISES.— This name was first applied to drinks that were composed of tea, coffee, or chocolate, to which capillaire syrup was added instead of sugar. During a visit of certain Bavarian princes to Paris at the beginning of the last century, they frequently took tea at the Cafe Procope. This tea was served to them at them request in crystal vessels, and instead of sugar they sweetened it with capillaire syrup, from which circumstance these drinks have obtained the name “ Bavaroises.” Modern cooks have extended its application, however, to other comestibles prepared with milk, sugar, and the yolks of eggs, and flavoured with fruits, preserves, syrups, and other things, and iced. Gouffe and Dubois were both famous for these handsome dishes, and they have de- servedly become general favourites amongst our principal cooks. A very usual name for them is Bavarian Creams, under which heading some of our culinary authors include dishes that do not in any way partake of the distinguishing characteristics of the Bavaroises. As in their preparation considerable skill and culinary tact is required, they are worthy of the highest efforts of our best confectioners; and it will be seen at once that in the matter of mounting, ornamenting, and garnishing, there is no limit to the display of artistic ability that may be exercised in this alone, without taking into consideration the opportunity they offer for exhibiting taste in manipulating flavours. They are mostly prepared according to the following mode, admitting of considerable variation, especially with re- gard to the shape of the mould. Fruit Bavaroise with Cream.—Set a plain charlotte- mould on ice, and decorate it inside with any small fruit that is in season, dipping this into liquid jelly to make it adhere to the mould. Pour over the fruit a little more of the jelly so as to cover it, but taking care not to disturb it or prevent it showing when turned out. When the jelly is set, insert in the mould a smaller one, about ljin. less in diameter. Fill the cavity between the two moulds with more of the jelly and fruit, and when these have set and are quite firm, carefully remove the inner mould by pouring warm water into it. Fill the centre of the larger mould with strawberry or any kind of cream, and let it remain until it is set. Turn the Bavaroise out of the mould on to a dish, loosening it by damping the mould with a hot cloth or dipping it into warm water. Decorate the edge at the top of the Bavaroise with diamond-shaped pieces of angelica about lin. in length, and in the centre of these pile a little well-whipped cream, sprinkled over with finely-shred pistachio- kernels, colour a little more of the cream with a few drops of cochineal, take it up in small quantities with a tea or dessert-spoon, garnish the dish with it, and serve. See Almond, Apple, Apricot, Chocolate, Cocoa, Coepee, Lemon, Maraschino, Orange, Peach, Pine-apple, Pista- chio, Punch, Strawberry, &c. BAVETTE D’ALOYAU.—French for that part of beef which lies between the sirloin and the flank. BAVEUX(SE).—The French term for slimy—com- monly used to signify a partially-cooked omelette, as omelette baveuse. BAY-LEAVES.— These are used by cooks for flavouring; but a prejudice has existed against them for no genuine reason, but probably because the aromatic flavour and odour to some extent resemble bitter almonds. The Bay-tree is a shrub of the Laurel tribe, Laurus nobilis (Fig. 95), and grows freely in this country. The classical epicures of ancient Rome used the leaves to form their crowns of victory and triumph, as well as for culinary purposes; but the Greeks, more chaste in their ideas and less epicurean, consecrated its use to priests as well as heroes, and used it in their sacrifices. They may be gathered in the summer, tied in bunches, and hung up in paper bags to dry; but they give better results if used freshly gathered. Bay-Leaves—continued. Bay-leaf Flavouring1.—This is made by macerating for ten days Bay-leaves in rectified spirit, sufficient to cover them Fig. 95. Leaves, Flower, and Fruit of the Bay-tree. when tightly packed in a bottle. The clear fluid will he very resinous, but will give a very fine flavouring. BAYONNAISE.—See Mayonnaise, for which this word is sometimes erroneously used. BEACHE-DE-MER. — Sometimes this is written (erroneously) Beche-de-mer. It is a gelatinous mass found on the sand-banks and near the islands of the Chinese Archipelago, and Pacific Ocean, and commonly known as “ sea-pudding.” Along the shores of New Holland it is exceedingly abundant. The Chinese regard it as a great delicacy, and worthy to be set before a king. They cook it in various ways, and frequently add it to soups; but with that eccentric people as an exception, the sea- pudding is not much eaten. Soup made from the Beache-de-mer is the turtle soup of China and Fiji, where it is regarded as a royal dish. The mode of cooking is as follows: It is soaked in cold water for an hour, scraped and cleaned, then boiled for eight hours, with some salt. After this it is again soaked for two hours in cold water. It is then boiled again for lialf-an-hour, and meat stock and seasoning added before it is ready for serving. The Holothuria, or sea-slug, is another variety of the Beache-de-mer, and some thirty or forty kinds are enumerated by those who trade in them—black, white, red, yellow, and other colours—and when parboiled, dried, and smoked, it is a very hard, rigid, untempting-looking, brownish-black substance, which has to be softened by cooking. BEAU'S. — Of those cultivated in this country for food there are two distinct kinds: the Broad or Windsor (Faba vulgaris), and the Kidney Bean (Pliaseolus vulgaris). The Broad Bean has many varieties, all having more or less similar characteristics—whereas the Kidney Bean is of two partly-distinct sorts—the Dwarf and the Runner. For culinary considerations it will be convenient to treat of them as three distinct vegetables, and then we must include the dried Beans of the Kidney species, known as “ Haricots,” the Lima or Butter Bean, and the Brazilian Black Bean, all being eaten as food in the countries where they grow. Black Beans.—The kind of Beans known under this title are grown chiefly in Central America, and are much esteemed by both Brazilians and Mexicans, who call them Frijoles, and adapt them to various culinary processes, for which other Beans might be used.