160 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Boar—continued. sugar, ten bay-leaves, Joz. of peppercorns, Joz. of cloves, six blades of mace, eight minced middle-sized onions, twenty sprigs of thyme, ten sprigs of winter savoury, and two sliced carrots ; mix all these well together and leave the head in it for eight or ten days, rubbing it with salt every other day; at the end of that time take it out, dry it well upon a cloth, and lay it straight before you, skin-side downwards. Have ready 101b. of forcemeat (see No. 1), using the Wild Boar’s flesh instead of veal, if you have any, and line the head lin. thick in the thinnest parts with this; roll the salted fillets cut from the neck in pieces of rind cut from any part of the Boar, place a layer of them lengthwise in the head, with a long piece of fat bacon Jin. square be- tween them, sprinkle a little chopped shallots, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg over each layer, and place here and there about lib. of truffles, with lib. of very green pistachio kernels blanched and skinned, and continue filling the head first with the forcemeat and then witli the other ingredients, until you have used the whole, or filled it; then join the two sides together over the stuffing, and sew it up with packthread, being careful to retain the shape of the head as much as possible. Fold the whole in one or two large thin cloths, leaving the ears out and upright (some cooks boil the ears separately), and cook as follows: Put Jib. of butter in a large braising-pan or stock-pot, and add 151b. of trimmings of pork or knuckles of veal, eight onions, two carrots, four turnips, eight bay-leaves, 1 table-spoonful of peppercorns, twelve cloves, ten sprigs of thyme, ten of marjoram, four blades of mace, a bottle of Bucellas wine, and four calf’s feet (the quantities are as given by Soyer); place it upon a sharp fire, stirring it occasionally until the bottom is covered with a clearish glaze, then add 6galls. of water and lib. of salt; when boiling, draw it to the corner of the stove, skim, and put in the head, ears uppermost, and let it simmer for seven or eight hours, or more, according to the size and age of the Boar. Pierce the head deeply with a plated skewer, and if it enters the flesh easily it is done. Skim the stock as the simmering goes on, and when done leave the head to partially cool in it. Remove the head, place it upon a board, and having partly undone the cloths, tie them up again tighter than before if possible. Next put it upon a large baking- sheet, support it upright with two flat pieces of wood, one at each side, and keep them in their places with kitchen weights; then place one piece of wood upon the top between the ears, on which place a 141b. weight. Let it remain all night until quite cold, when it may be taken out of the cloths, the thread with which it was sewn removed, and the head placed in position. Now trim off the neck by cutting a thick slice right through to level it, so that thin slices can be carved from it for serving. The meat will have a marbled appear- ance. Trim the head a little, setting the ears in a proper position, glaze it with a brownish glaze, form the whites of the eyes with a little white fat, set round pieces of truffles in the centre of the fat for the pupils, and model the tusks in confectioner’s paste, baking them hard. Decorate with tulips, camellias, and roses, which should be set in the ears, and some round and about in wreaths or other tasteful design, but leaving space to carve behind the ears. Garnish the head, and dish with croutons of aspic made from the clarified stock in which the head was boiled. (3) Cut off an ordinary pig’s head well back into the shoulders before the dead animal is scalded. Singe off the bristles with lighted straw or paper. Bone it carefully (see No. 2), and rub the head thoroughly with the following mixture: 51b. of coarse kitchen salt, Jib. of saltpetre, Jib. of brown moist sugar, 1 dessert-spoonful of dried juniper-berries, a few bay-leaves, 1 teaspoonful of cloves, six blades of mace, a few sprigs each of marjoram and basil, and double the quantity of thyme. Having thoroughly done this, put the head in a crock with the pickle, pour a bottle of port wine over it, and let it remain to soak for fourteen days, turning it over every other day. At the end of the fort- night, take the head out of the pickle, wash it in soft water, and wipe it quite dry with a cloth. Have ready the following forcemeat: ljlb. of veal, lib. of fat bacon chopped into dice and mixed up with a handful of chopped mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of black pepper, 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley. These ingredients should be pounded together in a wooden mortar Boar—continued. and moistened with the yolks of four eggs. When this force- meat is ready, the next thing is to have ready boiled a good coloured neat s tongue, about 21b. of cold boiled fat bacon • sliced into long fillets, a handful of truffles cut up small, and Jib. of blanched pistachio-kernels. With these materials ready at hand, you can commence to make up the head. Lay it on the face, spread it open and trim off the uneven or jagged parts from the cut edges, and cut the trimmings into narrow strips. First spread the inside of the head with a layer of forcemeat lin. thick, then lay in some of the fillets of tongue, fat bacon, and trimmings, with a portion of the truffles and pistachio-kernels between the fillets of tongue and bacon; over that spread a layer of forcemeat, and then another layer of fillets, truffles, and pistachios, and so on alternately until the head is well filled. Draw the cut edges together, rounding well with both hands, and sew up with packthread, using a large trussing-needle. If this is done neatly and carefully, none of the contents will escape. Shape the head nicely and as artistically as possible, by pressing and smoothing with the hands; then bandage it round and round with long strips of cloth, leaving the ears exposed, and lay a flat piece of board over the neck. Put the head into a large braising-pan, ears erect, and stack round it two cow-heels sliced up, any bits of meat there may be about, remains of game, and anything likely to make a good-flavoured stock. Then set this aside whilst a finely-seasoned sauce is prepared thus: Put lib. of finely-chopped beef-suet and the same quantity of fat bacon cut into small pieces into a stewpan with 21b. of chopped parsley, lib. of chopped shallots, two or three sprigs of lemon thyme, two or three bay-leaves, two sliced carrots, two whole onions stuck' with cloves, the juice of two lemons, and 1 teaspoonful each of peppercorns and salt. Place these over a slow fire for a few minutes, warming very slowly, and taking great care that they do not brown or burn, adding by degrees a bottle of sherry, Bucellas, or Madeira, and about lqt. of broth; simmer slowly for two hours, strain, and pour over the Boar’s head in the braising- pan. Then set the pan on the fire, let it heat to boiling, and then draw aside and allow it to simmer continually for five or six hours, or longer if necessary. When done (which can be ascertained by piercing through the neck with a skewer, which should penetrate easily), take out the head, place it on a dish, remove the bandages, put them on again tightly, and then return it to the broth and let it remain in this to cool. Then take out the head, set it on a baking-sheet, remove the cloths, and when quite cold take out the stitches; set the head upon its dish, or on a rice socle. Next paint the head with a rich brown glaze, or colour black with clean soot worked up in fat, fashion the eyes and tusks as described in No. 2, and garnish with parsley, a hard-boiled white of egg, truffles cut into shapes and chopped, or croutons of aspic jelly. Then ornament with flowers and moulded fat. Soyer tells us that a plain pickled Boar’s head, without being boned, is also very much esteemed, and is a noble dish: “ Singe the head, but leave a few bristles round the eyes and ears, pickle, tie it up in a cloth, and braise until quite tender. The head of the young Boar (or marcassin) is very delicate, dressed in either method; so likewise are the legs, neck, shoulders, and saddle, pickled and roasted, or braised, and served with a poivrade or any other highly-seasoned sauce; cutlets may also be cut from the neck.” Other cooks disagree as to the quality of the flesh of the Wild Boar. rillets of Wild Boar.—Cut up the under-fillets of a Wild Boar into slices Jin. thick by 3 jin. long and 3in. broad, trim them to pear shapes (grenadines), and lard them lightly. Soak them for twenty-four hours in a marinade, such as ordered for Dressed Boar’s Head, and when about to cook them, drain dry and set in a saut^-pan with a little mirepoix, but not enough to cover them; cook them, and when done glaze them and arrange upon a dish in a circle; pour some Robert sauce in the dish, and then glaze over the fillets again before serving. Galantine of Boar’s Head.—Take the head of a small Boar, singe, and bone it; put the meat into a stewpan, just cover