21 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Anchovies—continued. well to a very smooth paste. Spread this over thin slices of bread, put two of these together to form the sandwich, and serve. Anchovy Sauce.—(1) Take three or four filleted Anchovies, and beat them in a mortar, with 3oz. of butter. Put this Anchovy Butter into a stewpan, with 1 wineglassful of water, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and 1 table-spoonful of flour (pre- viously rubbed down smooth with the water). Stir over the fire until it thickens, and then rub it through a coarse hair sieve. The following is more simple and suitable for boiled fish : (2) Warm in a fry-pan 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, with a piece of butter the size of a small egg; stir them together until a light brown. Stir in slowly 1 breakfast-cupful of the liquor tho fish for which this sauce is being prepared has been boiling in, and boil up; strain, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of Anchovy Essence, 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a pinch of cayenne. (3) Make J pint or more of melted butter, and stir in a sufficiency of the Anchovy Essence according to taste. To use Anchovy Butter for this is sheer waste of labour in making the butter, as the essence answers admirably. Some add, and beat in well, the juice of half a lemon to J- pint of the sauce. As it is advisable to please the eye as well as the palate, and the abovo mixtures would have rather a poor colour, it is a good plan, when possible, to add some raw lobster-spawn, rubbed through a sieve, which gives a natural and effective tint, and adds a tone not obtainable in any other way. Anchovies in Surprise.—Take about a dozen very small dinner rolls, cut tho tops off, and take out all the crumb. Then mix tho following : 1 teaspoonful eacli of chopped tarragon, chervil, and chives, 3 table-spoonfuls of salad oil, three hard-boiled eggs chopped very fine, a little cayenne pepper, and tho fillets of twelve Anchovies washed and cut in halves. Mix the whole well together, and fill the rolls with it. Replace the tops as neatly as possible, and serve upon a neatly-folded napkin. Anchovy Stuffing.—Put two large finely-chopped onions into a frying-pan with a little oil or butter, and fry them to a light brown. Put them in a basin, and add 2 handfuls of breadcrumbs that have been dipped in water and squeezed quite dry; then add a small piece of the finely-chopped liver of the bird intended to be stuffed, the fillets of seven or eight salted Anchovies, a pinch of parsley, and a few chopped capers. Work these well together, sprinkle over a little pepper, and thicken tho mixture with the yolks of two or three eggs, when it is ready for use. The scoter, a waterfowl common in the south of France, is usually stuffed ■with this. Anchovy Tart.—Pare and clean about two-and-a-half dozen salted Anchovies, pound them in a mortar, and rub them through a sieve into a basin. Add gradually 1 teacupful of olive oil, working it into a smooth but not too thin paste. Roll out jib. of puff paste into a round flat about lOin. in diameter, put it on a baking-sheet, trim it neatly round, and spread over the Anchovy Paste,- keeping it at a little distance from the edge. Roll out another equal quantity of the paste, having it a little larger round, trim it, and with a plain tin biscuit-cutter cut out a round about 3in. in diameter; then cut the flat like a scroll with eight equal pieces, take one at a time and arrange them on the flat with tho Anchovy puree, covering both it and tho paste, and placing tho scrolls slightly overlapping one another, leaving a hollow in the centre of the tart. Secure tho edge by pressing it, channel tho tart all round, brush it over with egg, and with the point of a sharp small knife decorate each scroll or piece of the paste. Put tho tart into a quick oven, and bake for thirty-five minutes. Take it out when done, put it care- fully on a dish, and pour in a little olivo oil through the hole in the centre of the top. Anchovy Tartines.— Unroll, dry, and cut into narrow strips a bottle of Anchovies preserved in oil. Cut some French rolls into round slices, butter them well, and arrange a few of the strips of Anchovy on them so as to form an open or trellis work. In the centre or opening put the yolk and white of egg and parsley or finely-chopped gherkins, varying Anchovies—continued. them so as not to let the colours contrast, put them on a dish with a napkin spread over it, and serve with cheese. Anchovy Toast.—(1) Soyer had a famous method of serving this delicious breakfast relish, thus : Thoroughly cleanse and fillet a dozen Anchovies, and chop them small, or crush them out with a silver (or electro-plated) knife. Put this puree into a small stewpan with 6 table-spoonfuls of Provence (or salad) oil; warm slightly, and stand it by. Cut twelve slices of bread, nearly Jin. thick, and trim to an even oblong shape; toast them both sides on a gridiron, basting with a brush dipped in oil. Spread the Anchovy over them, and sprinkle over all a little chopped parsley. Push the gridiron, with the dressed slices on, into a sharp oven for a few minutes, and serve hot. (2) Spread thin, hot toast with Anchovy Butter, and lay striplets of Anchovy fillets over them in lattice fashion. There is an air of simplicity about this latter ; but a very nice Anchovy Toast can be prepared more simply yet, by (3) Spreading chopped Anchovy fillets, or Anchovy Essence, over hot buttered toast from which the crusts have been removed. (4) Bruise up the fillets of six Anchovies with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and a dust of cayenne. Pass through a sieve. Cut some slices, about jin. thick, off a tinned loaf, and with a round cutter stamp out of tho slices sufficient pieces to make six croutons. Fry these in boiling fat, or toast light brown before a sharp fire ; spread the centres with the paste, and trim round the edge, or sprinkle all over with the whites of the eggs chopped very fine. Tried Ancliovies.—Put a dozen or so of Anchovies with their oil into a frying-pan, and fry them gently for a few minutes. Take them out, put them on thin slices of toast, arrange them on a dish, and serve with cheese. Ol’lys of Anchovies.—Tho Anchovies which come from Nice should be used for this, as they are smaller and fatter than the others. Put a dozen or so into a basin of cold water, and steep them until they are easily opened. Take them out, drain, chop off their heads, scrape off the scales, and cut out the backbone. Trim them round to an even shape, put them in a basin of milk, and steep for an hour. Take them out again, drain, cover over with flour, plunge into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until done. Take them out, drain them on paper, put in tho form of a pyramid on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with sprigs of fried parsley, and servo with a sauceboatful of Poivrado sauce. Potted Ancliovy.—Pound sufficient well-cleansed Anchovy fillets, with allspice and cayenne pepper to taste. Put it into pots, and press down smooth with an ordinary palette-knife, leaving sufficient room for warm clarified butter to bo poured over to jin. in depth. Tho potted Anchovies sold in her- metically-sealed tins, or jars, should be purchased of tho best makers only, lest other fish and worse adulterations find a place within them. Stuffed Anchovies.—Split open a dozen or so Anchovies* wash them well in white rvine, and bone them. Mince a little cooked fish of any kind, put it into a basin with very fine breadcrumbs, and make into a paste by adding yolk of egg. Stuff the Anchovies with this mixture, dip into frying-batter, plunge into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a light colour. Take them out when done, drain, arrange on a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. ANCHOVY FEAR (Grias cauUflora).—This fruit is a great favourite in the West Indies, where it is indigenous. It is about the size and shape of a roundish egg, brownish, and having a kind of pulp over a single oval kernel. It very much resembles the mango in taste, and is, like that fruit, often converted into pickle before it is ripe. ANDOUILLE(S).—Fr. for a kind of Sausage(s) made of chitterlings. ANDOUILLETTE(S).—Fr. for “little sausage(s).” The name given to little rolls of minced veal with which hot pies and vol-au-vents are garnished. ANGEL-FISH (Squatina angelus).—This is known also as the Fiddle-fish, Monk-fish, Shark-ray, and wrong- fully, in some parts of America, as the “ Porgey.” It