THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 55 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.t referred to, see under their special heads. Aspic—continued. as you please), two onions and two carrots cut into slices, a head of celery, one shallot, and a sprig or two of parsley, sweet herbs, spices, pepper, and salt to taste. Fill up with lgall. of ordinary clear stock, and set the whole to simmer gently for three or four hours. Strain off the liquor into a crock, and when cold carefully remove all the fat, should there be any; then put the jelly which has resulted into a saucepan, and add to it what colouring you require—say a little burnt sugar, to make it a golden-brown. Boasting the chicken before boiling will give a nice colour. Put the saucepan on the fire, and when the jelly is melted, whisk into it the whites of two eggs and 1 wineglassful of tarragon vinegar. When this has reached the boiling-point, strain it through a jelly-bag or kitchen cloth, as described in No. 1. Warm up and strain again if the first product is not quite bright and clear. (3) Put 1 pint of good brown stock, which must be quite free from fat, into a clean saucepan, with 1 pint of water, l^oz. of gelatine, the rind and juice of a lemon, a bouquet garni (which consists of a sprig of thyme and mar- joram, two bay-leaves, and a little parsley, tied together in a bunch), a small carrot and an onion (sliced), one blade of mace, six cloves, | teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, and 1 dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and, lastly, stir in the whites and shells of two eggs. Well whisk all this over the fire until it boils; let it simmer for fifteen minutes with the lid on at the side of the fire, and then strain twice through a napkin or jelly-bag into a crock, and it is ready for use. Veal, ham, and chicken hones, with calf’s feet, if in sufficient quantity, will make a good Aspic. Dissolved gelatine can be added instead of the calf’s feet, if they are not at hand, to give it consistency when cold, hut care must he taken not to add the gelatine too liberally, or the Aspic will be hard—about 2^oz. of the French gelatine to lqt. will be sufficient. Herbs and spices are sometimes added in great variety, but it is a question worth considering how far they injure or destroy each other’s flavour. White wines and lemon-juice are also frequently added when economy is no object. The whites of eggs, and sometimes them shells, when used as clarifiers, must be stirred into the stock when it is quite hot and liquid. By allowing it to stand a few minutes the egg quickly settles, carrying other floating matters to the bottom with it. Before straining it is advisable to pour the clear liquor off the sediment, and warm again to a thin fluid. The more thoroughly the Aspic is strained and clarified, the brighter it will be. A clouded Aspic is considered indicative of inexperience or neglect. With this information, the next step is to use some ingenuity with whatever may be to hand to produce an Aspic which shall be gratifying not only to the taste, but also to the sight and smell, of those before whom it is placed. Aspics are vei'y pretty dishes when well prepared, but their success depends very greatly upon the translucency of the jelly. From the following receipts it will be simple enough to concoct others of much more elaborate detail, and something, it must not be forgotten, will be due to the shape of the mould. To set an Aspic in the mould, ice is almost an essential. Aspic Jelly Sauce for Salad.—Put about 1 teacupful of Aspic Jelly in a saucepan and melt it; leave it till cooled, but not firm, then mix with it 1 teacupful of salad oil and 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar; season the mixture with salt and pepper. Stand the bowl in ice-water, and whisk the sauce until it thickens and whitens; then squeeze in a small quantity of lemon-juice. The sauce should be kept on ice up to the time of serving. Aspic Lie or Sauce.—Put a little each of tarragon, chervil, and burnet, into a saucepan, pour over a little vinegar, and set the saucepan over a slow fire, to let the herbs infuse, for half-an- hour. Pour in about three times the quantity of vinegar in Spanish sauce, boil for ten minutes or a quarter-of-an-hour, and add salt and pepper to taste. Pour the whole into a jelly - Aspic—continued. bag, hung over a basin, and when it has all run through, it is ready for use. Aspic of Lobster.—See Lobsters. Aspic in Norman Style.—As seen in Fig. 52, the whole secret of this dish consists in cutting out with a cutter rounds of different savoury meats, such as sweetbread, liver, kidney, tongue, ham, veal, pork, slices of sausages, alternating the layers of these with sliced truffles or sliced button mushrooms, and filling up the mould with jelly, as before. The arrange- ment is very simple, and all that is required is to season the meats with salt and pepper as they are laid in. The centro of the mould should be hollowed, which may be easily done by Fig. 52. Aspic, Norman Style. putting a narrower mould inside. But the cylindrical moulds are so inexpensive that nothing would be gained by using two moulds when one will do. The centre may be filled with a good finely-cut salad of vegetables in season, thickened with mayonnaise sauce ; and round the top a ring of sliced mushrooms should be laid. There is not so much difficulty in preparing this dish as might appear to some : the difficulty is to provide a sufficient variety of tasty meats to make it savoury. Aspic of Oysters.—See Oysters. Border of Aspic Jelly.—A very pretty border can be made with Aspic and vegetables cut into slices and shapes. Pour into a suitable border mould (see Fig. 53), set in ice, sufficient clear Aspic to cover the bottom of the mould about |m- thick ; take care to keep the mould quite even. Have ready some Fig. 53. Aspic Border Moulds. slices of cooked carrots and beetroot, and cut them with vegetable cutters to any fancy shapes, such as crescents, stars, diamonds, triangles, or squares; also some slices of hard- boiled eggs. When the jelly is set, lay these upon it in order,