THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 193 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bread Bruit—continued. and. contains a large proportion of starch, which forms an excellent food; it is not much known in this country. The pulp is sweet, juicy, and yellow when it is fully ripe, but it is in a better condition for cooking before reaching maturity. When it is gathered before ripening, and is baked, the pulp is white and mealy, resembling wheat bread. The usual practice is to cut the fruit into three or four slices, and bake them in an oven. If baked whole and in large quantities on heated stones, it keeps good for years, and supplies a great number of people with bread. BREAKFASTS (literally, break fasts).—The French term for the first meal of the day is dejeuner, and the German Friihstiicks, or “ early bit ”; but there are few countries in which it is so socially partaken of as among the people of this country. This may be due in a measure to the lateness of the hour society prescribes for its retiring and rising; hence what others might term luncheons are here described as Breakfasts — Wedding- Breakfasts, to wit, which frequently take place some time after midday. Fashion has, however, yielded in a measm-e to the exigencies of lazy and luxurious habits, and transferred the invitation to Breakfast into one for luncheon, neither being of a formal or protracted character. The French wisely divide the late from the early Breakfast by distinguishing titles, as dejeuner d la tasse (cup), and dejeuner d la fourchette (fork), the one being literally a coffee Breakfast, and the other a sub- stantial lunch with wines. Of the many dishes suitable for a light fashionable Breakfast may be mentioned fish, prepared in various ways, esjiecially toasted or devilled; eggs prepared in any way; toast, anchovies, sardines, kidneys, ham, side-dishes of curry, rissoles, croquettes, quenelles, cromeskies, potted meats, brawn, pig’s head, cold Bath chaps, brains, small game, especially woodcocks and quails, sausages of all sorts, sweetbread, pate de foie gras, and tinned meats and fish. With such an extensive assortment, and the usual kitchen resources, there can be no difficulty in providing for an ordinary Breakfast; but when it conies to a Wedding Breakfast, the formality is increased tenfold, and complicated by the length of time previously that the invitations are issued. Baskets and stands of fruit are admissible as well as flowers. To provide for a Wedding Breakfast, the host and hostess will do well to convert in their minds the term from Breakfast to luncheon, or perhaps more aptly into dejeuner d la fourchette, for nothing less than a very sub- stantial feast will suffice for such occasions. Cold dishes are the order of the day, and the more savoury the better; soup may be served, and hot cutlets, croquettes, rissoles, and any other small entrees, handed round; but the dishes upon the table should be solid, good, and cold. Considerable skill may be exercised in the arrangement of the Wedding Breakfast and the decoration of the table, but the avoidance of all tall dishes, excepting a central piece and the cake, ought to be studiously observed. Flowers are indispensable, but should not be raised more than a few inches from the cloth. Scrolls and wreaths of flowers laid upon the cloth and curled round and about in pattern between the dishes, have the most charming appear- ance, especially if the wreaths be made to lie flat, and are composed of suitable flowers, with here and there a tuft of orange-blossoms. Our interest is chiefly with the food, however, and not so much its arrangement upon the table, which must in a great measure depend upon the artistic tastes of those to whom it is entrusted, and the materials at hand; and a list of suitable dishes may be useful, especially as the receipts for their preparation are to be found under their special headings. Fish of almost any kind, especially cold salmon, mayon- naise of lobster, prawns, and crayfish—prettily garnished Breakfasts—continued. with parsley and aspic. The veteran dishes of cold fowl and ham are sure to find a place, but the fowl should either be neatly carved by an expert carver beforehand and tied up with ribbon, or, what is many times better, boned and stuffed, or formed into galantine. Turkey makes a fine galantine. And then we come to ham, glazed and orna- mented with aspic jelly, and tongue, cold beef (sirloin, of course, or baron), game, and meat pies. For sweets we have varieties of jellies, creams, blanc- manges, trifles, meringues, accompanied with tarts and tartlets, cheesecakes, brioches and sweet biscuits, small dishes of crystallised fruits, and a variety of the very best fruits possible, but no nuts. Ices are always welcome, and so, too, even in the coldest weather, is ice an advantage to the champagne. Of the varieties of wines it is not necessary here to give any opinion, as much will depend upon circumstances ; but sparkling wines, such as champagne and moselle, and still wines, such as hock, sherry, and claret, are advisable. Port is too heavy, and spirits and liqueurs are only admissible after the viands are disposed of, as accompani- ments to a cup of black coffee. BIREAM (.Fr. Breme; Ger. Brassen; Ital. Beina; 8f>. Brema).—There are two sorts of this fish known to cooks —the Sea Bream (Pargus centrodontus) and the Fresli- Fig. 208. Carp Bream. water or Carp Bream (Fig. 208) (Abvamis brama), the latter being rarely considered worthy of special treat- ment. Of the Sea Bream there are many varieties, but of these the Black, or “old wife,” and the Gilshead, are considered the choicer. Baked Sea Bream.—Put a large Sea Bream into a dish (a deep one is required) or tin, with a marinade of onions, vineg-ar, salt, pepper, sweet oil, a bay-leaf, thyme, and a few cloves, basting it occasionally, and allowing it to remain for two or three hours ; then cover it with oiled paper, and put it in the oven for half-an-hour, or until the fish is done. Put |oz. of butter into a saucepan to melt, and add |oz. of flour to it. Pour the marinade through a strainer into this, and add an onion or shallot, a large pinch of finely- chopped parsley, and a little stock. Let this boil, and then pour it over the fish. Broiled. Bream.—Clean a large Bream, wipe it dry, and put it on a dish with 1 teacupful of salad oil, the same of claret, a few sprigs of marjoram or any other sweet herbs, 1 pint of vinegar, twelve cloves, three or four blades of mace, pepper, and loz. of bruised ginger, and let it remain for two or three hours before broiling. Take the fish direct from the marinade to the grill and broil over a slow, clear fire, basting it with the liquor it has been soaking in. Boil the liquor with the herbs and other things, add loz. of butter, with a little lemon or orange-juice, mix thoroughly, and serve in a tureen with the fish. The spawn should be boiled by itself in a little good salad oil, and used with parsley to garnish the dish. Broiled Bream with Sliallot Sauce.—Take a fresh Bream and clean it, taking off the fins, tips of the tail, and scales. Y