THE EN GYCL OPTED I A OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 138 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Biscuits—continued. The importance of kneading the dough thoroughly is the same in one case as the other; it is therefore advisable to use some sort of artificial means for “ breaking,” as it is called, but which in reality signifies thorough mixing. A very simple apparatus can be constructed for anyone’s use as follows: Get a bar of strong wood, 2Jin. deep by ljin. thick, about Sin. longer than the width of the table upon which the paste is rolled, and shape one end as a handle; bore a hole through the other, as shown in Fig. 149, and fasten the perforated end to a screw fixed firmly into the table under the top, about the middle of its length, and then the dough can be passed to and fro under this bar with one hand, whilst with the other the operator works it up and down from side to side like a lever chopper, or bread-cutter. In this way a very important process in Biscuit-making will be efficiently provided for; but if such a simple contrivance is not forthcoming, it will be necessary to use a rolling-pin as a sort of blunt divider (see Fig. 150). Anyhow, for most dry Biscuits the dough must be broken thoroughly if success is to be attained. When machinery is not available, or sometimes when it is, the ingenious pastrycook has a little knack of his own (see Fig. 151). One other instrument (or set of instruments) is necessary to the Biscuit-maker, and that is a “docker,” or tool for making the holes to be seen at intervals on the faces of Biscuits. These holes are believed to keep the Biscuit substance solid and compact. Dockers (see Fig. 152) of all sizes can be purchased at a small cost from any confectioners’ tool-maker, or can be made up by piercing a thin piece of wood in as many places as may be required, and driving a set of French nails right through to their heads, so that there shall be sufficient of the point on the other side to pierce the Biscuit to the bottom without bringing the lower surface of the wood into collision with the dough. A two-pronged fork may be used instead of a docker. It should be borne in mind when baking that Biscuits containing sugar take colour easier than others, there- Biscuits—continued. fore do not require a very hot oven, but rather a slow heat than otherwise. Another very important addition to the pastrycook’s implements is a Biscuit-bag (see Fig. 153), sometimes Fig. 151. The Cook’s Own Biscuit-break. called a “ savvy-bag,” being used very much to prepare Savoy Biscuits. It should be made of the strongest fustian, and so shaped as to come to a point like a jelly-bag, and into this point must be firmly bound a tin pipe 2in. long, which may vary in diameter to suit certain requirements. The toile should be boiled two or three times before using, so that the Biscuit batter may not come through. By some these are styled also “ Biscuit-forcers,” and are used by twisting and pressing with the right hand whilst guiding and stopping with Fig. 152. Biscuit-docker. (Wm. Smith and Co.) the left (see Fig. 154) Some cooks prefer to tie the top of the filled bag, but this is not usually done. Other Biscuit-forcers are in use which certainly present great advantages over the bag, as this is not ai vays easy