THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 57 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Saucest <£c., referred to} see under their special heads. Assafcetida—cont inued. slightly rubbing the gridiron on which the steak is to he cooked with Assafoetida.” As a substitute for garlic it may he used, but only when garlic, with which it has hut slight affinity, cannot he procured. ASSAM.—This is the name of an Indian district bordering on China. It has become famous lately for a tea, grown amongst its swamps, which possesses a strong, musky flavour and deep colour. It is much liked by those whose predilections are in favour of strong-tasting, cheap teas. ASSIETTES MONTEES.—Fr. for “raised dishes.” ASTI.—The name of an Italian sparkling white wine, named after the district in which it is produced. ASUREE.—To Marie Kibrigli Pasha we are indebted for this receipt and others of Turkish dishes. Take 21b. of wheat, unground, and wash it; throw it into a large saucepan of cold water, and boil for an hour; then dry it near the stove on a cloth. When it is quite dry beat it in a mortar, to get off the husks; then put the wheat into a strong muslin bag, and tie it up ; put it into a saucepan of cold water, and let it boil all day until the liquor becomes of the con- sistency of jelly. Then take out the bag, squeeze it until all the liquor is out, and throw the dregs away. Put lib. of sifted, crushed loaf sugar in the liquor, and boil it again; if not sweet enough, add more sugar. Put a handful of Sultana raisins into a basin, with a few blanched almonds, cut small; mix the jelly with these, and put it into glass dishes. It will keep many days, and is not only strengthening, but a very nice dish. ATHERINE (Atlie rina presbyter). — The name by which this little fish (Pig. 56) is generally known is the Fig. 56. Atherine. Silverside or Sand-smelt, being often passed off in the market for the real smelt. It is related to the family of the mullets, and may he recognised by the absence of the cucumber smell peculiar to the smelt, and by the hand- some bright stripe running the whole length of its side. It is declared by epicures to be a delicious fish, little, if anything, inferior to the smelt, and much more whole- some. It is dressed in the same way. tSee Smelts. ATHOLE BROSE.— See Brose. ATHOLE CAKES.—See Cakes ATTELETTES.—These are small skewers, generally silver or thickly electro-plated, with ornamental heads. The name is sometimes spelled “Attelets,” or “Hatelets.” Soyer gives a few specimens of them (see Fig. 57), which are very ornamental; but more modern manufacturers than those of his time have produced a great variety, some of which are remarkable for the beauty and appropriate- ness of their designs. In length and size the Attelettes in general use differ considerably, according to the purpose for which they are intended; those of a smaller and simpler character being used for entrees and the larger for removes. The larger ornamental skewer is frequently used for transfixing and holding in position small pieces upon larger, such as small birds upon a capon or turkey; or for decorating joints with shapes of aspic jelly, or meats with cocks’ combs, mushrooms, truffles, crayfish, and Attelettes—con tinu ed. other titbits. Indeed, the utility of the Attelette to the artistic cook is in proportion to its almost universal adapt- ability. Dubois, who spells the word “Hatelet,” gives in his high-class book of artistic cookery an extraordinarily handsome collection of garnished and transparent Atte- lettes for ornamenting hot and cold dishes, and he prefaces his description with the following sensible remarks: “ If Hatelets are applied with discernment, they always serve as a relief, and add splendour to the dishes intended for entertainments, such as great dinners or ball suppers. Hatelets as such are applicable to all dishes served, provided the form and nature of the latter agree with the ornaments; but intelligent cooks are careful not to lavish them without reason. A lady of rank displays her rich jewels only on festival days, and then only when dressed in garments corresponding with their splendour; Hatelets, being the diamonds of cookery, ought to be shown only on solemn occasions, and applied to pieces worthy of such an honour: to be too prodigal with them is to diminish their value and their charm.” Attelettes are easily put together, but, even though very artistic in construction, are not always seen to the best advantage, this being generally due to indiscretion in their application. Por instance, one would not wish to orna- ment a salmon with cocks’combs, or fix a string of crayfish or prawns on a capon, or truffles and mushrooms on sweet- meats; such combinations would be incompatible. Neither shoidcl Attelettes be placed where they would be even partially concealed from view. They should not only be appropriate to the viand, but mounted as conspicuously as possible.