95 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <hc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. that London Beef is no longer so good as it was, but that Beef everywhere is pretty much alike. “ The reason of this is,” he further tells us, “that Beef is a meat which is improved by travelling while alive. Like East- India madeira, it is the better for the journey—only, in the case of the bullock, it must he performed on foot. A moderate degree of fatigue, not amounting to exhaus- tion, causes the fat to incorporate more intimately with the lean, and the muscle itself to become more tender. Such meat acquired a softer, marrow-like consistency, and was doubtless more digestible than the robust, hard- fibred flesh which reaches town by rail without the slightest physical exertion. It is one little item in the irresistible course of events, to which we must all of us submit. The cook must make up as well as she can for the ameliorating effects which pedestrian travel once produced in oxen.” “Beef renders good service by its mere appendages,” continues this amusing author; and he is correct, for the tail comes in for a great many dainty dishes, such as soup, stew, or ragout; the roll of the loin, or fillet, sliced artistically thin, laid a few minutes on the gridiron, and served on a hot dish with no other seasoning than a bit of fresh butter rolled in finely-chopped parsley, constitutes the wonder which the Continental epicurean lights of other days called (after its English confrere) “ a Beef’s Teak,” stating that it formed the principal dish at the average British dinner, and that it was worth braving the voyage across the Channel to taste. It is to be feared that some consider- able disappointment would await the intrepid traveller should he venture to hope to find a fillet-steak in a British eating-house. Ho; this part of the ox is generally reserved for a more dignified fate, and figures as a prime cut in a sirloin or baron of Beef. Of the various parts of Beef, their qualities, and different modes of cooking, ample information will be found in the directions and receipts hereto appended, but for special parts, such as Cow-Heels, Maebow, Ox- Cheeks, Ox-Heads, Ox-Heaets, Ox-Kidneys, Ox- Livee, Ox-Tails, Ox-Tongues, Teipe, &c., special reference must be made to those headings. The first consideration is to buy good Beef, and to do that you must know how to choose it, and recognise one part and one quality from another. For convenience’ sake, we divide the carcases into either Ox-Beef or Cow- Beef, and then English Beef and Scotch Beef, both of which may be prime, middling, or inferior; and although it may require some practical experience to distinguish one from the other, an attentive cook, by the aid of the following instructions and an intelligent use of the eyes, will soon be competent to pick out the best, which is always the cheapest in the end. Ox-Beep {Prime).— The flesh of this should be bright cai’mine-red, marbled with yellow fat, and a thick outside layer of fat under a fine skin. The lean should be firm and elastic on pressure, standing out boldly and round from the bones. The suet, again, should be dry, and crumble easily. All this indicates a young, healthy, well- fed animal. Cow-Beef. — Some buyers are not able to judge between inferior Ox-Beef and superior Cow-Beef, nor is the difference so very striking. The grain is closer, and the fat is white instead of yellow, and the flesh not quite so brilliant a red. Infeeiok Beef.—Unfortunately, there is a great deal of this sort of meat sold for the use of the poor, or even to the ignorant rich. Hot only is it inferior in appearance, having a hard skin, with the fat, dark- coloured flesh sometimes quite a red-brown, with homy, ‘ligamentous texture prevailing throughout; but its nutritive qualities are exceedingly low, and it shrinks badly in cooking. Scotch Beef, for reasons of superior feeding and breeding, is regarded by butchers and cooks alike as the Beef— continued. primest of the prime. It is generally small in size, and of exquisite colour, the yellow fat being most attractively blended with the fibres of the lean. Bear the fore- going indications in mind, and you will very likely buy good meat almost instinctively. As for the joints, in the shambles, the ox i3 divided somewhat differently to what it is when the dead sides are cut up into joints, to which we shall refer directly. In this case (Fig. 101) we have— 1, head and cheek ; 2, sticking-piece, or locality of throat- cutting; 3, chuck-ribs; 4, middle-ribs; 5, fore-ribs; 6, sirloin; 7, rump; 8, clod; 9, leg of mutton piece; 10, brisket; 11, thin flank ; 12, veiny parts; 13, aitch- bone ; 14, buttock ; 15, mouse buttock ; 16, thick flank; 17, leg. To cut up a side of Beef into joints, the following plan (Fig. 102) is usually adopted; but as a customer may want half, or only a small portion of any joint, the butcher then creates a cutting-up theory of his own, diverging at times from any recognised plan: 1, sirloin; 2, rump; 3, aitchbone; 4, buttock (silverside); 5, mouse buttock, or mouse round; 6, hock; 7, thick flank; 8, thin flank; 9, fore-rib; 10, middle-rib; 11, chuck-rib; 12, leg of mutton piece; 13, brisket, or breast; 14, neck, clod, and sticking-piece; 15, shin. Fig. 102. Side of Beef Divided into Joints. Of all these, the sirloin (1) is decidedly the prime joint, though by many it is considered to be wasteful. A baron of Beef is two of these sirloins in one, answer- ing to a saddle of mutton. The under-cut, or fillet, is much prized, but the foreign cook regards it as of most value for special dishes. The rump (3d is famous for its British steaks, which the butcher slices off a good leg with a flash of the knife that proclaims great pride, dexterity, and neatness. The aitchbone (3) and buttoclc parts (4 and 5) are better suited for boiling or stewing, but are occasionally roasted. The latter (5) is better known when salted as silverside. The thicle flanlc (7) roasts well, and is an inexpensive, economical joint having no bone; the thin flanlc (8) makes good