THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 19 D & E 2 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Analysis—continued. great importance where it is advisable to ascertain the purity of a food (see Adulterations), or determine its chemical nutritive value. The examination may be of either a simple or a superficial character, when it is termed “ Proximate,” or it may extend to the elementary principles, when it is known as “ Ultimate.” When merely the number and nature or quality of the component parts are ascertained, the Analysis is “ Quali- tative ”; but when their proportions or quantities also are determined, the Analysis is termed “ Quantitative.” By the Analysis of food, science contributes a power- ful aid to the cook, which is sometimes insufficiently appreciated, or even ignored ; not because the careful cook is unmindful of the importance of dealing with pure and nutritive foods, hut because chemistry, although entering deeply into and governing every phase of the culinary art, extends so inimitably beyond it that the wise cook is- contented to perfect himself in the practical details, and leave the abstruse science to the chemist. ANCHOVIES (Fr. Anchois; Ger. Anschove-sardellen; Ital. Acciughe; Sp. Anchovas).—These delicious little sea-fish are chiefly imported from the Mediterranean, the best kind being those which are sent from Gorgona. Anchovies are found along the shores of Great Britain, but are probably only met with in sprat shoals, hence we have no specific fisheries of them. They are caught at night-time by nets, being allured to the fishermen’s boats by fires hanging from the sterns. To preserve them for exportation the heads, which are bitter, are cut off, and the bodies gutted. They are then thrown into brine, and packed in barrels holding from 51b. to 201b.; and from these bairels our merchants fill Fig. 24. Anchovy. bottles for the market. Dutch Anchovies may be known by having been cleaned of their scales ; French Anchovies by their larger size; and both by the pale tint of their flesh. Anchovies may also be distinguished from sprats and sardines by their colour, although attempts are fre- quently made to impart the necessary reddish-brown hue by artificial means. The following hints are worth notice: The colour of the pickle of the best fish, after repose or being filtered, is of a clear pink, without red sediment; whereas that from inferior sorts is generally turbid and red only when stirred or agitated. A heavy red sediment is deposited, which the fishermen, of Provence especially, add to make up for deficiency of the natural colour of the fish. This red colouring may be either Armenian bole, Yenetian red, or ochre. Brine of bay-salt should alone be used, and changed two or three times before final packing. The uses to which the savoury Anchovy may be applied in cooking are innumerable, every cook having special receipts of his or her own. It will be impossible here to give more than a few of the typical preparations; but from these it will be possible, with a little ingenuity, to produce many others. To Serve Anchovies to Table.—They must be thoroughly cleaned, honed, and trimmed. To open them easily, or “ fillet ” them, as it is called, they should be soaked in cold water for a couple of hours, taken out and dried in a cloth, and the backs divided by the points of the two thumbs, rather than with a knife, which should never touch them unless it be electro-plated or silver. Lay the halves or fillets neatly in a shallow dish, and garnish tastily with finely-chopped white of egg and parsley ; pour salad oil over all. Anchovies—continued. Aigrettes of Anchovies.—Fillet about one dozen Anchovies, and after washing them, lay them in a marinade or pickle of oil and vinegar, with a sprinkle of cayenne pepper over them. After leaving them so for about two or three hours, take them out and let them drain. Make a light batter, and dip them in; drop them in very hot lard, and fry to a nice golden colour. Break off the rough parts, and ornament with chopped parsley and lobster coral that has been rubbed through a sieve. Build them up on a napkin, and serve very hot. Anchovy Allumettes.—Take a bottle of Anchovies preserved in oil, dry them, cut them into long thin strips, roll each one up in paste, and plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat. Take them out when done, drain on a sieve placed in front of the fire, put in two-and-two across one another on a napkin spread over a dibs, and serve very hot, with a garnish of sprigs of fried parsley. Anchovy Biscuits.—Take |lb. of patten paste, and work well into it sufficient potted Anchovy to give it a good flavour. Boll the paste out to fin. in thickness, and then stamp it out with a fancy cutter, or cut into strips about 3in. long, and twist them round. Place them upon a sheet of white paper, laid on a baking-sheet, and bake until nicely done. Dish them upon a neatly-folded napkin, and serve hot or cold. Anchovy Butter.—This is a very useful savoury to have in stock, and can be used to spread on slips of toast as a relish, or may be employed in making Anchovy Sauce for fish, or be served in pats garnished with parsley. Clean, bone, and beat in a mortar to a paste, one part of Anchovies to two parts of fresh butter; or take eight Anchovies to loz. of butter, and add 4oz. more butter. Pass through a sieve. Some cooks add spices, and others finely-chopped parsley that has been scalded. Francatelli recommends the addition of cayenne pepper and grated nutmeg to taste; or it may be made by working 1 teaspoonful of Anchovy Essence into loz. of butter. Anchovy Butter Sauce.—Beat up a piece of Anchovy Butter tho size of a small egg in 1 pint of good brown sauce, warm over a slow fire, and stir in the juice of half a lemon, or more, according to taste. This sauce goes well with baked fish. Anchovy and Caper Sauce.—Put £ pint of melted butter into a saucepan, dredge in a little flour to thicken, add a little seasoning of pepper and salt, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pour in a little of the vinegar from capers; mix all well together, and then stir in a boned Anchovy and 1 table-spoonful of capers, both very finely chopped. Set the saucepan on the fire, boil the sauce for five minutes, and it is ready for use. Anchovy Cream.—The following is one of Soyer’s favourite receipts : Make 1 pint of ordinary melted butter (butter sauce), and place it in a stewpan over a slow heat. When hot, add 3oz. of Anchovy Butter, stir till dissolved, and then stir in quickly 2 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream, but do not let it boil. A delicious sauce for fried fish: the cream enriches the melted butter supremely. Anchovies with Eggs and Endive.—Carefully remove the shells from half-a-dozen hard-boiled eggs, and with the point of a sharp knife cut them round, so as to take off the halves of white without injuring them. Put the yolks into a basin with a little Anchovy Sauce, and mix them well; form them into their original shapes, and put them carefully inside the whites. Decorate a round dish or plate with leaves of endive, keeping the points of the leaves towards the rim of the plate, put the eggs on these, and servo. Great care must be taken, for if the white should crack or break, the effect will be spoilt. Anchovy Cushions, or Canapes.—(1) Cut slices, jin. thick, off a stale tinned loaf, and trim off the crusts. Divide them into slips 2Jin. long and l|in. wide, fry them in clarified butter till they are a nice golden brown, and when cold spread them with Anchovy Butter. Clean, bone, and trim, removing all the small bones, some Anchovy fillets as pre- viously directed. Place four fillets lengthwise on each piece of toast, and lay chopped parsley along the middle