214 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads Butter—continued. when the cream streams out of one exit and the skimmed, or “ separated,” milk out of another. This and other processes of creaming will be explained under Cream. Fig. 231. Box Butter-churn (Dairy Supply Co.). Our object here is to make Butter, and for that purpose we can use either whole milk or cream; the former naturally requiring a much larger quantity for the pro- duction of an equal amount of Butter. The first thing to be done is to select a churn suitable Fig. 232. Cylinder Butter-churn (Dairy Supply G'o.). to your requirements, and these machines are sufficiently ! numerous in style and design to cause a little confusion i in choice, but this difficulty may be overcome by accepting the fact that all are good of their kind. First, as one of the simplest, we have the Box Churn (Fig. 231); next Fig. 233. Barrel Butter-churn (Dairy Supply Co.). we have the Cylinder Butter-churn (Fig. 232); then a Barrel Churn (Fig. 233), that revolves on its own end- to-end axis; and after that another form of Revolving Butter—continued. Butter-churn (Fig. 234), that turns on a side-to-side axis, and is said to give very speedy results. A fanciful glass Butter-churn (Fig. 235) is also offered by the Dairy Supply Company, which appears to have the great merit of positive cleanliness, while the operator is furthermore Fig. 234. Revolving Butter-churn (Dairy Supply Co.). enabled to watch the process and decide forthwith upon the result of the churning. Larger churns, worked by steam, are made for large dairies. Having selected one of the churns described, the Butter-maker may set to work, having first decided whether the Butter shall be produced from milk or cream; in either case the churn should be heated with warm water, poTired in and poured out, and then the greatest care should be taken that the milk or cream is at a medium temperature of 50deg. to 55deg. Fahr., this Fig. 235. Glass Butter-churn (Dairy Supply Co.). having been pronounced by competent authorities to be the most effective degree. Anything beyond this tem- perature gives proportionately bad results, hence the use of a thermometer is recommended, although the expe- rienced dairymaid generally trusts to her sense of feeling.