44 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ilc., referred to, tee under their special heads. Apricots—continued. Apricot Water Ice.—Take about eighteen ripe Apricots, and slice them without peeling. Boil them soft in J pint of water and 1 pint of syrup. Add three drops of strong hitter-almond flavouring, mix up well, and put into the freezer. Bavaroise of Apricots.—A dozen ripe Apricots, out in halves and stewed, or two dozen tinned halves will do. Put these into a preserving-pan, with -.'.111. of sugar, the juice of two lemons, and loz. of isinglass which has been previously dissolved in a little water. Stew them until they are sufficiently tender to he mashed, when they must be rubbed through a sieve into a hasin. Stir upon ice until just about to set, when 1 pint of whipped cream must be stirred in smartly, and the whole turned into a mould. Set this in ice, and when quite firm, turn out on to a glass dish. Bottled Apricots.—For this, Apricots that have fallen before they are quite ripe are generally used, as they are not fit for tarts or anything else. Put them in wide-mouthed bottles, fill up with some syrup at 22deg. (see Syeups), cork and tie down tightly, put them in a saucepan with water up to their necks, and boil slowly for twenty minutes. Let them cool, and they are ready for use. Bottled Halves of Apricots.—Select very ripe fruit, cut them in halves, and remove the stones; scald the halves in a little hot water, remove their skins, and then plunge them into cold water to soak. Put them in wide-mouthed bottles with their kernels (blanched and dried), packing them in tightly, and fill up the bottles with syrup at 26deg. (see Sugae-boiling). Cork up the bottles, tie them down; put them in a saucepan of water, and boil gently on the side of the fire for ten minutes. Take the bottles out, let them cool, and the Apricots are ready for use. Broiled Apricots.—Cut a dozen or so Apricots in halves, take out the stones, and sprinkle the former over with finely-sifted, crushed loaf sugar; put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, or hot embers, and broil them. Put a few stoned Apricots into a mortar with an equal quantity of raspberries and sufficient sugar to sweeten, and pound them well together. Put this fruit-pulp into a saucepan, and boil it until done. Place the broiled halves of Apricots on a glass dish, and serve very hot, with the fruit-pulp poured over. Compote of Apricots.—(1) Split the fruit in halves, peel them thinly and smoothly, let them simmer for a few minutes in thin syrup (made by boiling lib. of sugar in 1 pint of water), add the blanched kernels, dish them up piled in a pyramidal form, and pour the syrup over the top. (2) Remove the stones from one dozen ripe Apricots, and stew them in a light syrup with a little lemon-peel pared very thin; and when done, allow them to get cold. Next prepare a compote-case—that is, a case lined with patten or second paste-about ljin. high. Previous to putting this paste in the oven, line it with a piece of paper, and fill the centre with flour, so as to keep the paste a good shape. When dene and cold, remove the flour and paper, and fill in with the Apricots. Cover over the top with some whipped cream, smooth it nicely with a knife, and ornament it with angelica and cherries, or pistachio nuts if preferred. Croutons with Apricots.—Slice up some good bread or dinner- rolls, about Jin. thick. From these slices stamp or cut out Fig. 42. Croutons with Apricots. rounds, according to the number required, and fry them a nice golden colour in clarified butter. Drain them, sprinkle over with icing-sugar, and give them a little more colour by Apricots—continued. putting in the oven upon a flat haking-sheet. When this is done, lay upon each crouton half an Apricot, hollow side down (see Fig. 42). But before this the Apricots, whether fresh or tinned, must be in halves, without stones, and partly cooked in a light syrup. Arrange the croutons on the dish upon which they are to be served, and then pour over and round a rich custard sauce made with the syrup. Serve very hot. Dried Apricots.—This is a very useful mode of preserving Apricots, and they make an exceedingly tasty side-dish. Prepare the fruit by halving and peeling, then set them in a stewpan or preserving-pan, with a thin syrup. Boil up, remove, and drain—three times. At the last charge of syrup, place them separately on the drainer at a distance from each other, resting upon a baking-sheet, and put in the screen or hot-closet to dry. A very slow oven will dry them, especially if it is heated by regulatable gas-burners. Boil 21b. of sugar to the pearl degree (see Sugae-boiling) ; add the juice of 1 lemon, and with the bowl of a spoon or a spatula work the sugar at the side of the pan until it becomes dulled or whitish; then throw in the dried halves of Apricots, shake all round gently together, and use a silver fork to lift out the pieces, placing them, with the round side uppermost, upon the drainer as before, and set them in the screen again for about an hour to dry the sugar on them. When finished, put them away in boxes, with a sheet of clean paper between the layers of dried fruit. Effervescing1 Apricot Drink.—Filter until clear 1 pint of the expressed juice of Apricots. The juice may be obtained by pounding the fruit in a mortar and squeezing in a tammy cloth until no more can be extracted. Make this clear juice into a syrup by heating with Jib. of sugar, and add loz. of tartaric acid. When required for use, put 20 grains of pure carbonate of soda into f tumblerful of ice-cold water, and add 2 tablespoonfuls of the syrup, stirring quickly. Frozen Apricots.—Tinned Apricots do well for this. Take one tin of fruit, lib. of sugar, lqt. of water, and 1 pint of whipped cream—measured after whipping. Cut the Apricots into small pieces, add the sugar and water, and set to freeze. When nearly frozen, add the cream. A very tasty dish, which may also be served without the cream. Breen Apricot Compote.—Select the best of the green Apricots thinned from the trees, and blanch thorn in boiling water. When thoroughly scalded, remove them from the fire, and cover over with a towel. By so doing, they become green again. Drop them into cold water, and then drain in a hair sieve. Boil some preserving-sugar in a stewpan, put your fruit into it, and give them a boil (there should be enough syrup to completely cover the Apricots). Put the pan on one side, and let the fruit soak in the warm syrup for three or four hours. When you are ready to use them, drain off the syrup, and boil it to the thread degree (see Sugae-boiling). Put the fruit in a glass dish, and cover it with the syrup when cold. This compote should be used within twenty-four hours of boiling, or if required to bo kept longer, it must be fresh boiled every second day. Imitation Apricots.—Put the required quantity of sugar into a sugar-boiler and boil it to the ball degree (see Sugae- boiling) ; then add a few drops of acetic acid, and with a tablespoon (a silver one should be used) rub it well against the sides of the boiler, taking it up in large quantities, until the whole has a white appearance. Have ready some moulds made in halves, joined together with a hinge, in imitation of Apricots, pour the sugar in, and let it remain until it is set and quite firm in the centre. Turn out on to a board, and proceed to colour them as follows: Grind a little gamboge with water on a plate and rub in a little carmine ; coat the Apricots with this, putting it on in three different thin shades, allowing one to dry before another is put on. To imitate the small reddy-brown spots, dip a stiff- haired brush into carmine slightly coloured with brown, and dot them over with it. Let them get perfectly dry, then give a thin coating of dissolved gum, dredge over a little very fine starch-powder in imitation of the bloom, and they are ready for use. Nougats of Apricots.—(1) Lay Jib. of puff paste, rolled very thin, over a baking-sheet. Spread Apricot Marmalade about Jin. thick over the paste. Then have ready jib. of minced Jordan almonds, which put into a basin with |lb. of powdered