232 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. cornet, and with it fill the insides of the Cakes. Dress them on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Christmas Cake.—(1) Rub Jib. of butter, or butter and lard, into lib. of finely-sifted flour, in which 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder and 1 pinch of salt have already been mixed. When the fat has all been worked in, add Jib. each of well- washed and dried currants and minced mixed candied peel, and Jib. of moist sugar with J teaspoonful of mixed spice. Make into a dough with water, put into a greased Cake-tin, and bake in a moderately hot oven. (2) Cream lib. of butter, and mix in with it three well- beaten eggs, 21b. of flour, lib. of currants, washed and dried, lib. of sugar, and 5 small teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Work all together with J pint of milk. Butter a Cake-tin and pour the mixture in. Bake for two hours or a little longer. (3) Mix with 51b. of best white flour 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, and rub well in Jib. of butter and lib. of lard. Add 1 Joz. of German yeast, knead it well, and set in a warm place to rise, with a cover over it. When risen, add 31b. of currants, washed and dried, Jib. of finely-chopped candied lemon-peel, ljlb. of moist sugar, 1 grated nutmeg, four well-beaten eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of brandy. Butter some Cake-tins, and line them with buttered paper. Put the mixture in, and bake until well done. Clay Cake.—Mix together in 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour Jib. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and 3 breakfast-cup- fuls of caster sugar; add 1 breakfast-cupful of sweet milk, with 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in it, and six well-beaten eggs. Flavour to taste. Make into a dough, roll out, and bake in layers. Colchester Cakes.—(1) Dissolve over a steady fire Jib. of loaf sugar in lqt. of water; when this boils, pour it gently over six well-whisked eggs and beat till cold. Sift in gently Jib. of flour, fill some paper cases three-quarters full with the mixture, sprinkle some fine sugar over the top, and bake in a slow oven. (2) Crush quite fine ljlb. of loaf sugar, add it to J pint of water, mix and let it stand for twelve hours. Rub 3oz. of butter into 4Jlb. of flour, put it on a table, make a well in the centre and pour in J pint of honey-water, together with the sugar and water, and mix well. Roll out to the thickness of a penny and mark into sizes with a Colchester- cutter; brush these over with milk, place on a baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven. When done, wash with egg-and- milk, leave till cold, and then break the Cakes asunder. Composition Cake. — (1) Rub to a cream 2 teacupfuls of warmed butter and 3 teacupfuls of sugar; then add five well- beaten eggs, one nutmeg, and 2J teacupfuls of flour; dissolve in 1 teacupful of milk 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Strain and mix it with a wineglassful of brandy, and stir into the Cake with another 2J teacupfuls of flour. Add lib. of stoned raisins just before the Cake is put in the tin, and bake from three-quarters-of-an-hour to one hour. (2) Beat to a cream lib. of butter in a bowl, then add gradually ljlb. of sugar, eight well-beaten eggs, one nutmeg, 2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of allspice, 1 tea- spoonful of mace, J teaspoonful of cloves, and 1 wineglassful each of wine and brandy. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 table-spoonful of hot water, stir it into J pint of sour milk, and add to the other ingredients. Then add ljqts. of flour, 1 breakfast-cupful of stoned and chopped raisins, 21b. of currants, and Jib. of citron-peel cut fine. This will make several Cakes. Bake for two hours in well- buttered tins. Conde Cakes.—Boll out to eight turns Jib. of puff paste. Cut the paste into strips 4in. wide, and mask the top with almond- paste (see Marzipan). Cut the strips again into oblongs ijin. wide, and sprinkle over the top a little sugar flavoured with vanilla. Lay them with the blade of a knife, a short space between each, on baking-sheets ; bake in a slack oven. When done, trim round the edges. Confederate Cake.—Mix 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, and add any desired flavouring. Mix the yolks of three eggs with 1 breakfast-cupful of pow- dered loaf sugar, add to these the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 1 teacupful of cold water, and lastly the Cakes—continued. flour and baking-powder. Put the mixture iuto a well-greased oblong baking-tin (see Fig. 260), and bake in a moderate oven. A little grated lemon-rind may be used as flavouring. Fir,. 250. Oblong Cake-tin (Mathews and Son). Corporation Cakes.—Take Jib. of flour and mix in 2 table- spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a quarter of a grated nutmeg, and a little salt. Then cut loz. of candied lemon-peel into thin slices and add them to the mixture together with 2oz. of washed and dried currants. Mix all well together to a stiff paste by adding 1 table-spoonful of brandy, two eggs, and 6oz. of warmed butter. Take up in a dessert-spoon as much as it will hold, and let it drop upon a well-buttered baking-sheet; repeat the process until the paste is used up, then put them in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Country Cakes.—Put Jib. of flour into a basin with Jib. of slightly-melted butter and the yolks of six eggs ; beat well together until they become as thick as cream. Then take the whites of the eggs and beat them up with lib. of finely- sifted lump sugar, and when it gets to a froth mix all together. Put the paste in tins, and bake in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. Cup Cakes.—(1) Blanch and skin Jib. of sweet almonds, put them in a mortar and pound them, adding occasionally a few drops of water to prevent them from oiling. Put lib. of butter in a saucepan, place on the fire, and when it has melted stir in slowly Jib. of ground rice and the pounded almonds. Continue stirring the mixture over the fire until browned, but taking every care not to burn it, then pour in lqt. of boiling syrup and 1 pint of boiling milk. Place the lid over the saucepan, and leave the contents for six or seven minutes; then stir it vigorously with a fork. Take the mixture out of the saucepan in teacupfuls, and turn them over on to a hot dish, leaving each the same shape as the cup (see Fig. 261); dust over with caster sugar, and serve. (2) Put Jib. of butter, three eggs, J pint of milk, 6oz. of fine sugar, and a little yeast into a basin and mix them well up, adding sufficient flour to make the dough the required stiffness. Cover over the basin with a cloth, and put it before the fire for the dough to rise. Take a few cups, butter them inside, fill the cups with the paste, and put in the oven. When done, turn them out and leave on the flat side to cool. Cussy Cake.—This Cake is made in thin, low cylindrical moulds of graduated sizes, with flat tops ; the insides buttered and then dusted with finely-powdered sugar. Take lib. of sugar, fib. of pounded almonds (passed through a fine hair sieve), Jib. of ground rice, Jib. of butter, a little lemon-zest, eight eggs, and 1 pinch of salt. Make into a paste, and put it carefully in the moulds and bake in a moderate oven. Take them out of the moulds, set them one upon the other, let them cool, and mask with a thin layer of marmalade,