52 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <5sc., referred to, see under their special heads. Asparagus—continued. flavour should he interfered with by injudicious com- binations or adjuncts. Asparagus is seasonable in spring, about May or June. See that the heads are full, green or purple, and heavy. Before cooking, it is necessary to pick off the loose leaves, and scrape the stalks clean; then cut off the white ends to make them all of a length or nearly so, unless some other form of dressing is particularly described. Since the introduction into this country of foods pre- served in hermetically-sealed tins, foreign Asparagus has found its way into our markets, and offers many advantages over our own “ fresh cut.” It comes to us already partially cooked by the process of preservation it has undergone, and requires, therefore, only to be warmed up in the tins in which it is packed to be ready for immediate use. In or out of season it is available at all times for all the purposes to which Asparagus is adapted, and claims superiority of flavour over that cooked in the ordinary way, for this reason: when closely packed in the tins, only a very small proportion of water can come into contact with the Asparagus, and this is sealed up with the sticks, forming a sort of juice in which it is afterwards warmed up. Boiled in the ordinary way, Asparagus loses much of its flavour and aroma to the water in which it is boiled, which is invariably thrown away. The juice in the tin, however, forms an excellent basis for a sauce. Asparagus with Cream.—Cut into small pieces a bunch of Asparagus, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and blanch them for three minutes. Take them out, drain, put into another saucepan with a very little water, some butter, sugar, and one onion. Set the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for half-an-hour. Take out the onion, add a thickening of yolk of egg or cream, stir well, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Asparagus in a Crust.—Make a strong paste with flour and the yolfcs of eight eggs, and form it into a sheet 19in. long by liin. wide. Boll out a flat, which cut to a round of 6 jin. in diameter; moisten the edg’e, fasten the band round to form a crust, pinch it into a firm position, and decorate (see Fig. 50). Egg over, and bake in a slow oven until of a handsome brown. Have ready some fine Asparagus heads, which have been boiled quickly in a preserving-pan (this will preserve the colour), and when they are nearly done, cool them by draining off the water in which they have been boiled and pouring on cold. Bemove from the pan, and lay upon a napkin to dry; pat them gently with another, and when ready, cut seven of the largest to 9in. long, and stand these in the centre of the crust; around these group sixteen or twenty other heads, 7in. long; and around these again two other circles, one of 6in. long and the other of 5in. long. When thus arranged, set in the oven to warm, if desired hot; or serve the dish cold, with oil poured over, or a good mayonnaise sauce. Asparagus and Eggs,—Put 2 table-spoonfuls each of gravy and cream (or milk) into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter and a Asparagus—continued. slight seasoning of salt and pepper. Place the saucepan on the fire, and as soon as the butter is melted, add six eggs, and cook gently until they begin to set. In the meantime, cut a couple of dozen heads or sticks of Asparagus into small pieces, using the green part only; parboil them in salted water, drain them, throw them into the egg mixture, and stir gently over the fire for thirty or forty seconds. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried bread or toast. Asparagus in French. Soils.—Carefully cut off a small piece from one end of each of three French rolls, and scrape out all the crumb with the handle of a spoon. Put the tops and shells of crust into a frying-pan with a little butter and fry them, or place them before the fire to get crisp. Pour 1 breakfast- cupful of cream into a saucepan, add the yolks of five eggs, beat these together for a few minutes, and season with a little salt and grated nutmeg. Set the saucepan on the fire, and when the mixture commences to thicken, put in about seventy green parts of Asparagus, cut up into small pieces. Fill the rolls with this mixture, replace the lids or pieces of the tops that were cut off, and with a sharp-pointed stick or skewer make sufficient holes at one end of each of them to insert about ten more of the green parts of the Asparagus. Arrange them in a napkin on a dish, and serve. The pieces of Asparagus projecting from the rolls will give them the appearance of growing out of them. Asparagus Ice.—Take lib. of green Asparagus points, and cut them up in pieces jin. long. Boil them in salt-and-water in a stewpan, keeping them firm ; take them out, drain them, pound them in a mortar, and pass them through a sieve. Dilute this puree with lqt. of strong, cold syrup flavoured with vanilla, and add j pint of cream ; pass it all through a tammy, and then set it in the freezer. Add a little spinach-green to the syrup to give a high green colour. Francatelli goes so far as to freeze a similar mixture in moulds made to represent heads of Asparagus: the tips only are then coloured with a brush after freezing. Asparagus Omelet.—Sprue Asparagus is used for this. Scrape them slightly, cut the tips off the heads, break the stems at the part ceasing to be tender, cut them transversely into pieces jin. long to fill a pint measure. Put them into a frying-pan, with 1 table-spoonful of butter. Season them with salt and pepper, and toss over a sharp fire till they are done rather soft. Be careful not to blacken or dry them by over-cooking; drain them on a sieve. Break ten eggs into a basin, season with salt, pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley; beat the eggs up together with the parsley. Have some butter warmed in an omelet-pan, into which pour the eggs after stirring in the Asparagus. Stir the omelet slowly as it thickens, toss it gently on the fire, and when done, fold it over, and put it on a dish to serve. Asparagus Peas.—The long, thin Asparagus, called “ sprue,” is used for this purpose, although contrary to the advice of many gardeners, who declare that this is an unwise con- sumption of the young plant, to the prevention of its in- creasing in size as a shoot for the next season. Others are of opinion that the root is strengthened by the removal of these young heads. The “ peas ” are greatly in request by some cooks when the real thing is not in season. (1) Procure a bunch of small green Asparagus, or sprue, break off the tops into pieces the size of large peas, and boil them in plenty of water with a full quantity of salt—2pz. to lgall. When boiled quite tender, strain them off, having taken care that they shall not be too much done, or gone “ mashy,” in which case they would be watery. Soyer then proceeded as follows : He drained them upon a sieve, and put them into a stewpan with 8 table-spoonfuls of white sauce to lqt. of “ peas,” a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, together with 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar; placed the stewpan upon the fire, moved them gently round and round with a spoon, added four pats of butter, each about the size of a large walnut, and when the butter was melted, stirred in the yolk of one egg beaten up with £ gill of cream. When this was all nicely amalgamated and thickened, he poured it upon a dish, and dressed with crohtons of fried bread. (2) When the “ peas ” are boiled, toss them, with butter, in a sautd-pan, and use for a garnish.