THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc:, referred to see under their special heads. Apples—continued. Apple Cheese and Cream.—Put lib. of sugar in a sauce- pan with a little water and boil it, skimming frequently; add lib. of Apples, pared, cored, and cut up into quarters, and the juice and finely-chopped peel of a lemon. Boil this mixture over a clear fire until it is of the consistence of a thick jam. Pour it into a mould, and turn it out when set and firm. In the meantime, put a pint of cream or milk into a saucepan and stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, the thin peel of a lemon, a stick of cinnamon, and a table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Set the pan on the fire, boil for a few minutes, stirring frequently, and then let it get quite cold. Turn the Apple Cheese out on to a dish, pour the cream round, and serve. Apples a la Cherbourg.—Choose firm but good cooking Apples. Pare them, and cut them into bricks. Put lib. of sugar, the thickly-peeled rind of two lemons, and a little ginger, to every pound of Apples, and cover them closely for some hours. Then place them in a preserving-pan, being careful not to break the Apples, and put to them a breakfast- cupful of cider; let them boil until the Apples look quite clear (for about twenty-five minutes). Bemove them one by one to a dish. When cold, place them in cross piles, and crown the whole with lemon-peel. Pour the syrup round, and eat them with Devonshire cream. Apple (flavoured) Chocolate.—See Chocolate. Apple Chutney.—Pare and core half-a-dozen Apples, and mince them very fine with half the quantity of onions and 6oz. of sultana rasins. Put the mince into a mortar, and add J table-spoonful each of salt, essence of anchovy, and Indian soy, 1 table-spoonful of olive oil, 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger, and half the quantity of cayenne; pound the whole veiy fine, adding gradually a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Put the Chutney into jars or bottles, cork them down securely, and keep them in a cool place until wanted. Apple and Cornflour Pudding.—Pare, core, and cut into quarters sufficient sweet cooking Apples to fill a quart measure. Put Jgall. of milk into a double-boiler, and set it on the fire; when the milk boils, pour it gradually over a breakfast-cupful of cornflour, in a basin, and stir it until quite smooth. Beturn the mixture to the double-boiler and cook for half-an-hour longer, stirring it frequently. Add 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses, 3 table-spoonfuls of butter, 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, and the quart of Apples. Turn the mixture into a well-buttered dish, put it in a slack oven, and bake for three hours. Take it out, and serve. Apple Cream.—Pare, core, and finely mince half-a-dozen good cooking Apples, put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter the size of a small egg, 1 teacupful of powdered white sugar, 1 wineglassful of water, and a beaten egg. Add 10 drops of lemon or orange essence to flavour. Stir smartly over a quick fire for about ten minutes. This makes a nice relish for tea, or a good sauce for a batter pudding. Apple Cream Cake.—Put loz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and rub it into 12oz. of flour. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream into a basin, and mix in 1 teaspoonful of bi- carbonate of soda dissolved in 1 teaspoonful of hot water, stirring well until there is a good froth. Should the cream be very sour and refuse to froth easily, add a little more soda, made in the same way as before, as the success of the cake depends entirely on the froth. Turn it into the basin containing the flour, and work the whole into a soft light paste. In the meantime have ready some cold stewed and well-sweetened Apples, grate a little lemon-peel over them, put them on a strainer, and let as much of the juice as possible drain from them. Put a thin layer of this light paste over a well-buttered plate or flat dish, spread the Apple stew over, leaving a margin round the edge, cover over with a layer about an inch thick, fastening the edges well together, put into a sharp oven, and bake until done. Take it out, and serve either hot or cold. Apple Croquettes.—An Apple Marmalade is prepared as for Apple Bread, and fonned by the hands into the shape of pears. Have three well-whisked eggs in a basin; dip each croquette into this, and throw them afterwards into a dish of very fine breadcrumbs. Smooth them over with a knife, and dip a second time in the egg. Pry in a saute-pan of very best Apples—continued. lard until the bread colours a golden-brown. Bemove, place on a sieve to drain, and then pile pyramid fashion on a neatly-folded napkin, and dust freely with sifted sugar which has been flavoured with orange. Apple and. Crumb Pudding.—Cover the bottom of a well- buttered deep pie-dish with sifted breadcrumbs; over that put a layer of Apples, peeled, cored and cut into thin slices; then sprinkle these over with powdered cinnamon and sufficient sugar to sweeten; continue in this way until the dish is full. Put it in a slow oven, and bake for about half-an-hour. Turn it out on to a dish, pour round a little cream, and servo. Apples with Currants. — Pare half-a-dozen or so large Beinette Apples, and cut out the cores with a tin cutter, taking out a little more of the Apples than for merely coring them. Put the required quantity of well-washed currants into a basin of warm water to soften, take them out, drain and wipe them dry, and stuff the Apples with them. Sprinkle over a little caster sugar, put them on a dish, place a small lump of butter on each one, pour a few table-spoonfuls of white wine into the dish, put them in a slow oven, and bake for about twenty-five minutes. Take out the dish when the Apples are well cooked, and serve. Apple and Currant Soup.—Pare a dozen or so Apples, put them into a saucepan with a few slices of bread cut from a household loaf, and add a flavouring of lemon-peel. Pour over sufficient water to cover them, place the saucepan on the fire, and stew until the Apples are quite soft and pulpy. Strain the liquor into another saucepan, and add about Jib. of well-washed currants, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and a sufficient quantity of sugar to sweeten. A tea- spoonful of aniseed may be added if desired, and two or three cloves stewed with the Apples are an improvement to the taste. Put the saucepan on the fire, boil a few minutes longer, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve very hot. Apple Custard.—Take 1J pints of Apple Marmalade or Stewed Apples, and warm up with Jib. of finely-powdered sugar ; let this stand in a basin until cold. Beat up half-a-dozen eggs very light, and then stir and beat them well into lqt. of new milk: a little cream enriches the custard. Mix this up with the Apples, pour into a deep dish, and bake for twenty minutes. Apple Custard Pie.—Peel, core, and chop up sufficient Apples to make a pie, and stew them in not more water than just enough to keep them from burning. When done, mash well, and add to each quart of fruit the following: Pour eggs (well beaten), 1 pint of sweet milk, 4oz. of butter (melted), a grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and Jib. of powdered sugar. When the Apples are cool, stir all up together, and bake in a rich pastry crust. Apple Custard Pudding.—(1) Stew half-a-dozen good largo cooking Apples (pared, cored, and minced) in a little water; when done, rub through a coarse sieve, and sweeten. Make a good custard of 3 pints of milk, six eggs, and 4 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar and lemon flavouring. Pour the Apples into a pudding-dish, and the custard mixture on top of the Apples, and put into a slow oven to bake until done—about half-an-hour. (2) Sometimes a rich short-paste is used; a dish or mould is then lined with it. The paste should be put into the oven to set before adding the Apple and custard. Over the top of the custard apricot marmalade may be spread to give the whole an exceeding richness. Apple Custard with. Vanilla.—This is a very exquisite but extravagant sweetmeat. Strongly flavour with vanilla Jib. of Apple Marmalade, and squeeze through a tammy cloth. Work up 3oz. of warmed butter with a spoon in a basin until creamed, gradually introducing into it the yolks of twelve eggs and the whito of one. When this is worked frothy, add 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-powdered loaf sugar, and the Apple Marmalade. Stir well, and throw in a couple of handfuls of ratafia biscuits. Pour the whole into a buttered mould, and let it poach for some time in the bain-marie. Turn out on to a warm dish, and mask with almond-cream, thickened with apricot marmalade. Apple Dessert.—Pare, core, and mince 21b. of green Apples, and drop them into I pint of strong boiling syrup. Add the