128 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. 'Beet—continued. (5) Chop up into small square pieces 21b. of Beef, and brown them in a stewpan with loz. of butter, adding two onions, also cut into square pieces. When well browned, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir briskly, pour in 1| pints of white broth, also 1 gill of tomato sauce. Season with salt and pepper, put in a bunch of sweet herbs and one crushed clove of garlic, and cook for twenty-five minutes longer. Dish up the Beef with a bunch of cooked Brussels sprouts, also three heads of cooked celery, for garnish. (6) Proceed as for No. 4, omitting the potatoes, and adding two tomatoes cut in pieces, six chopped mushrooms, and two crushed cloves of garlic. Serve with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley strewn over the meat. (7) Proceed as for No. 4; then with eight or ten tomatoes, stew slowly 31b. of Beef cut in slices or slips; add salt, a few cloves, and, just at taking up, a little butter. A gill of tomato ketchup and an onion may be added if high flavour is desired. (8) Cook the Beef as directed for No. 4, substituting 1 teaspoonful of curry for the flour, and serve with cooked rice instead of the potatoes. (9) Brazilian Style.—A pound of the shin of Beef does very well for this. It should be cut into small thin slices, and placed in a stone jar in layers, alternating with chopped vegetables, such as onions, carrots, turnips, and celery. Macaroni, pearl barley, and tomatoes or mushrooms added, with the grated rind of a lemon, make an exquisitely tasty dish. Season each layer well with pepper, salt, and a suspicion of cayenne popper. (In some parts of Spain a clove of garlic would be cut up and mixed in very minute proportions with the other vegetables.) Pour over all 1 tea- cupful of water and 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, cover the jar, and put into a slow oven to stew for three or four hours. Of course, a variation in the ingredients used may be dictated by circumstances, but when macaroni or pearl barley are selected, the layers of either should be placed upon the meat, and below the vegetables. This stew must be tried to be appreciated. Stewed Beef-steaks.—At the bottom of a stewpan put a layer of sliced carrots, onions, and any other vegetables to taste, together with a bunch of sweet herbs. Moisten with just enough stock to keep them from burning. On these lay the steaks, cut into largish slabs, and season with pepper and salt. Cover close with the lid, and let them stew very slowly for several hours, until quite tender. Stir occasionally to make sure that nothing sticks to the bottom. You may serve the gravy with it, either just as it comes from the stewpan, or thickened with 1 table-spoonful of sifted flour worked smooth in a little water, and boiled up until the flour is quite cooked. Pour over the steak on the dish, after removing the bunch of herbs. Stewed Beef-steak and Oysters.—Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, and, when it is warm, put in a steak weighing about ljlb., and pour over a small quantity of water. Cook for about twenty minutes, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of water, season with salt and pepper to taste, and add the liquor from a dozen-and-a-half of oysters. Continue to stew in this for another hour; then pour in 3 table-spoonfuls of port wine, and add a small lump of butter well kneaded in flour and a dozen-and-a-half oysters. When the oysters are done, take out the steak, put it on a dish with the oysters on the top or round it, pour over the liquor, and serve as hot as possible. Stewed Brisket of Beef.—Put a piece of brisket of Beef, weighing about 6jlb., into a basin, rub it well over with salted vinegar, and let it stand for forty-five minutes or so. Put it into a saucepan only a trifle larger than the meat, pour over sufficient water or weak stock to cover it, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for about an hour, skimming frequently as the scum rises. Put in half-a-dozen each of onions, turnips, and carrots, and cook gently until the meat and vegetables are all done. Take out the meat, carefully draw out the bones, and put it on a dish with the vegetables round it. Add to the liquor 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom or walnut ketchup and a lump of butter rolled in flour, boil for a minute or two, pour some of it over the meat, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Beef—continued. Stewed Billet of Beef with Oysters.—To lib. of fillet- steak take a dozen oysters. Mix loz. of butter and |oz. of flour together in a stewpan; peel and chop up one Spanish onion, cut up two pickled walnuts, put them into the stewpan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, 1 dessert-spoonful of walnut ketchup, and 1 teaspoonful of Worcester sauce. Lay the steak in on these and let it stew for an hour, turn- ing it every twenty minutes or so, but do not let it boil. Open the .oysters, remove their beards, strain their liquor through a tammy cloth, and add just before serving. Stewed Billets of Beef and Olives.—Cut off some equal- sized slices from the under-cut of a sirloin or the tender fillet of a rump of Beef, trim them, rub them well with oil and vinegar, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and toss them over the fire for two or three minutes. Pour in sufficient gravy, stock, or water to moisten them, add 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry or claret, and a thickening of flour. Cover over the saucepan, set it on the side of the fire, and cook gently until the meat is quite done, adding a small quantity of stewed olives about five minutes before serving. Take out the meat, put it in the centre of a hot dish, pour the remainder of the sauce round, and serve. Stewed Larded Billet of Beef.—Take 31b. of fillet of Beef, trim it neatly, and lard it with fat bacon. Cut up a few mixed vegetables, and put them into a stewpan, with three bay-leaves, twelve allspice, and jib. of fresh butter; fry the vegetables upon the stove for five minutes. Put the Beef upon the vegetables, add lqt. of good stock, cover over with slices of fat bacon, put the lid on (use one that fits tightly), and let it simmer very gently for one hour upon the stove ; or, if more convenient, it can be put in the oven just as it is. When done, strain off the liquor, and reduce it by boiling to a light glaze. Put the fillet of Beef upon a dish, pour the glaze over it, and serve with a dish of fried potatoes. Stewed Scraps or Trimmings of Raw Beef.—Take any scraps of raw Beef, and chop up very fine, picking out all the strings, gristle, and other hard parts ; put them into a kettle, and rather more than cover with cold water; let it boil several hours, or until the water is nearly all gone. Season with butter, pepper, and salt; but it is rich as it is, and needs but little seasoning. Serve hot, as you would hash. A splendid stimulating food for a convalescent. Stewed Skin of Beef.—Chop or saw a shin of Beef into three or four pieces, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for about thrce-hours-and-a-half. Then add a small bunch of sweet herbs, a head of celery cut up, and a dozen each of allspice and black pepper. Simmer for fifteen minutes longer; add three carrots, and cook for another quarter-of-an-hour; put in two turnips and a dozen small onions, and when these have cooked for another fifteen minutes, making the time from tho commencement four-and-a-quarter hours in all, put the meat on a dish and place tho vegetables round it. Put 1 teacupful of the meat liquor into a small saucepan, stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, work it smooth, and pour over 5 teacupfuls more of tho liquor. Add 1 wineglassful of mushroom ketchup, salt and pepper to tasto, boil up quickly, skim off any scum there may be, pour it through a fine sieve over tho meat, and servo very hot. Stewed Silverside of Beef.—Cut off a piece of the silversido of Beef, weighing about 71b., put it into a saucepan, with a couple of onions and carrots cut up, three or four cloves, a small bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, 1 tea- cupful of chopped celery, parsnip or leek; pour in 2 table- spoonfuls of mushroom or other ketchup, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and 3 or 4 breakfast-cupfuls of water ; sprinkle over salt and pepper to tasto, and lastly add a small quantity of browning. Cover over the saucepan with the lid, fastening it on tightly to prevent the steam escaping, and cook very gently on a slow fire for about three hours. Fifteen or twenty minutes previous to serving, take out the meat, strain the liquor into another saucepan, add a slight thickening of flour, put back the meat when tho flour is mixed smooth, warm the whole without boiling, and serve. If desired, the Beef may be larded and a calf’s foot cooked with it, and this will be found a great improvement.