THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 46 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Arrowroot—continued. the roots (see Fig. 43) are a year old, they are dug up and carefully washed in clean water, and their paper- like scales and discoloured and defective parts are removed by hand. They are then again washed and drained, and next subjected to the action of a wheel rasp, grated, or beaten into a pulp in a large wooden mortar. This pulp is then thrown into a quantity of clean rain-water, and after being thoroughly stirred up, the milky fluid is passed through a hair sieve, or a coarse cloth, which arrests' the fibrous matter of the root; the starch is then allowed, by standing, to settle to the bottom, and the water is drained off. After the further washing of the pasty deposit, and draining some two or three times, it is spread out on clean white cloths, and allowed to dry in the sun. In this state it is ready to be packed for market, and will keep for any length of time if moisture is kept from it. There are several kinds of so-called Arrowroot in the market, notably Brazilian Arrowroot, which is Cassava Starch or Tapioca Meal; East Indian Arrowroot, or Curcuma Starch; English Arrowroot, Potato Starch; Portland Arrowroot, from the tubers of the Wake-Robin {Arum maculatum), a plant which grows wild in many parts of this country; Tahiti An-owroot, which is Tacca Starch, or Otaheite Salep. The best are known as “Bermuda,” “St. Yincent,” and “St. Kitts” or “West Indian” Arrowroots; all these are good alike, the pre- ference, if any, being in favour of the former two. Arrowroot is imported in tins, barrels, and boxes, and should be a light, dull, dead white, tasteless, inodorous powder, or in small, pulverulent masses; it should feel firm to the fingers, and crackle when pressed or rubbed. Under a pocket lens the starch granules appear as shown in Fig. 44. In cookery, Arrowroot is used for making cakes, biscuits, and puddings, and for thickening soups and other fluid foods; but in order to render it nourishing, eggs, milk, and butter must be added, either one or all, in due proportion. It requires no boiling, unless for invalids, when it is better cooked for a few minutes after mixing. Arrowroot Biscuits.—(1) Whisk up five eggs into Jib. of caster sugar, then add 3oz. of pastry flour and the same amount of Bermuda Arrowroot; let both be sifted and stirred in lightly. When the paste is ready and very smoothly mixed, put small quantities into small, round tins, and dust over with sugar. Bake in a moderately quick oven. (2) Small.—Kub 8oz. of butter into 5 Jib. of flour, then add 6oz. of sugar and fioz. of fine Arrowroot. Make a bay in the flour, and into this pour throe eggs beaten up in 1 pint of water. Mix into a stiff dough, break, and then set to prove, covered over in a cool place. Make lib. of dough into sixteen biscuits, Arrowroot—continued. roll each one of them separately into a round cake, 3in. in diameter, dock with an arrowroot-docker, and bake in a hot oven. Arrowroot Blanc-mang-.—(1) For lqt. of milk it will be sufficient to mix 3oz. of best Arrowroot with a small quantity of the milk, taking care to make it quite smooth. Boil the rest of the milk with half-a-dozen laurel leaves in it, or half a stick of vanilla (20 drops of the essence may be used instead). Watch carefully, and just as the milk rises, take it off the fire and pour it on to the Arrowroot, stirring thoroughly. This may then be sweetened to taste, and set upon the fire for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Pour it into a mould, cool, and turn out. It will not keep very long. If the blanc- manger cracks, it is either under-boiled, or the Arrowroot is of an inferior quality. Lemon-peel boiled in the milk is some- times preferred to laurel or vanilla as a flavouring. (2) A little isinglass dissolved in the milk will make the blanc-mang stand firmer. (3) Take 1 teacupful of Arrowroot, put it into a large bowl, and dissolve it in a little cold water. When it is melted, pour off the water, and let the Arrowroot remain at the bottom. Boil this water in J pint of unskimmed milk, made very sweet with white sugar; add a grated nutmeg, and eight or nine blades of mace, mixed with the juice and grated peel of a lemon. When it has boiled long enough to be highly flavoured, strain it into 1J pints of very rich milk or cream, and add fib. of sugar. Boil the whole for ten minutes, then strain it, boiling hot, over the Arrowroot. Stir well and frequently till cold, then put it into moulds, and let it set. (4) Boil lqt. of milk with loz. of sweet almonds and fifteen or sixteen bitter almonds, blanched aud pounded, or with noyeau. Moisten 2 teacupfuls of Arrowroot with a little cold milk, and pour on it the boiling milk, stirring all the time. Then put it in the saucepan, and boil a minute or two longer, still stirring. Pour into a mould to set. Arrowroot Cake.—Almost any mode of preparing this deli- ciously-flavoured starch is welcome, especially amongst invalids of delicate stomach. The following receipt is given by a lady- cook of considerable experience, and will be found very good: Beat lib. of butter to a cream. In a separate basin beat 8 eggs until they are light and very frothy, when add, gradually, lib. of finely-powdered sugar and the grated peel of a lemon. Beat this together, add lib. of the very best Arrowroot, little by little, and continue to beat for at least an hour. Pour into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven until done, which can be determined by sticking a knitting-needle into the centre : if it is not done, the needle will come out not quite clear of the dough. Slices of candied peel laid on the top, and a dust of sugar ten minutes before removing from the oven, add to the beauty of the cake. Arrowroot Cream.—Boil 1 pint of milk, or half milk and half cream, with a bay or laurel leaf or two and the thin rind of a lemon, and sweeten. Stir up 1 table-spoonful of Arrowroot with 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water. When the milk is boiling, remove the leaves and peel, and pour rapidly on to the moistened Arrowroot; stir thoroughly, and continue to do so now and again until it is cold. Serve in a glass dish with tarts or stewed fruit. Arrowroot Custard.—Beat up an egg with a little sweetened milk; stir this on to 1 teaspoonful of Arrowroot, and add sufficient hot milk for the mixture to fill a small buttered cup. Stand this in a stewpan with so little water that it cannot boil over the sides of the cup, and steam for about twenty minutes. When done, turn out. Serve hot or cold, and with stewed fruit or jam if desired. These custards can be flavoured with essence of vanilla or lemon. Arrowroot Drink.—Mix up 2 teaspoonfuls of Arrowroot with 3 table-spoonfuls of water. Add to this when smooth J pint of boiling water, stirring quickly; then add slowly J pint of cold water, or enough to make the mixture of the consistency of cream. Stir till quite smooth, and then add by degrees 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, or 1 wineglassful of brandy, and sufficient sugar to barely sweeten. When cold, or iced, this is delicious. Arrowroot Drink, with. Black-currant Preserve.—Boil up in a stewpan 2 table-spoonfuls of good black-currant pre-