TTIE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 2-tO I -TN For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. crisp crust, put it on a hot plate, and spread butter over it, and continue until the Cake is all browned. Put the crusts that have been taken off on the same plate, one above the other, and cut into quarters. Holmcroft Cake.—Make into a batter 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, not melted, 1 teacupful of milk, the whites of two eggs, or a whole egg, and 2 breakfast- cupfuls of flour. Turn this into a mould, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn it out, and serve when cold. Home-made Cake.—Put into a bowl fib. of sugar and fib. of good butter. Mix thoroughly with the hand for fifteen minutes. Break four eggs, leaving the whites in a basin, and drop the yolks in with the butter and sugar. Mix again. Now beat the whites to a froth, and add them to the other ingredients. Grate in f saltspoonful of nutmeg, add fib. of flour, and mix well again; stir in 2oz. of well-cleansed and dried grocers’ currants and 2oz. of blanched sweet almonds cut into small pieces. Mix all well together with the hand for five minutes, and, while doing so, drop in 1 gill of brandy, a little at a time. Have a round Cake-mould capable of holding 2qts., butter it lightly with a hair brush, and sprinkle in a little sugar. Drop one-third of the pre- paration into the mould, spread over it 2oz. of candied orange-peel shred into thin slices, add half of the remaining preparation, spread on top of it 2oz. of shred candied citron- peel, and fill the mould with the rest. Lay a piece of brown paper over, and put the mould into a very moderate oven for two hours. Let it get a good golden colour. Remove, and cool off in the mould, which will take about three hours. Remove the Cake by turning it bottom upwards and tapping the mould until the Cake falls out. Arrange a lace-paper on a dessert-dish. Glaze the Cake with thin syrup, dress it on the dish, and decorate the top and border tastefully with assorted candied fruits. Iced Cake.—Put Jib. of butter into i pint of warm milk, and when it is melted, pour it gently over fib. of flour, fib. of currants, fib. of ground rice, fib. of sugar, a few pounded bitter almonds, foz. of powdered mace and cloves, a little mixed candied peel, chopped small, a few shredded sweet almonds, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. All these ingredients should be well mixed before the butter and milk are added. Lastly, add 1 wineglassful of brandy, and beat all well together. Put the mixture in a well-buttered tin or mould, and bake. Imperial Cake.—Beat the yolks of six eggs until they are light, and then take the whites and whisk well until they are in a stiff froth. Take the crumb of three French rolls, soak it in milk, and then squeeze dry; when dry, beat it in a pan with fib. of warmed butter, then add the yolks, 2oz. of finely-sifted loaf sugar, and a little grated lemon-peel. Beat the mixture well, adding about 2oz. each of washed and dried currants, chopped and stoned raisins, blanched and pounded almonds, and minced mixed candied peel. When all are well mixed, beat in the whites of the eggs; put it in a shallow tin, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. The tin, previous to the mixture being put in, should be lightly buttered and dusted with fine breadcrumbs. Sprinkle the Cake when turned out with caster sugar, or ice over the top. Indian Cakes.—Fill twelve small dariole-moulds with a sponge- Cake preparation, and bake them. When cooked, take the Cakes out of the moulds, and when they are cold cut them in - slices ; mask each with a little currant jelly, either red or black, and a little maraschino ; put the slices on the top of each other, making the Cakes their original shape, mask them with a meringue, sprinkle coarsely - crushed sugar over, put them in a very slow oven, so that they may dry but still keep white, arrange them on an oval dish, and serve them when cold. Irish Cake.—Take lib. of butter and work it up in a warm basin with the hand before the fire until it becomes creamy, when add fib. of caster sugar, and beat well together. Take the yolks of nine eggs, whisk them well, and then add to the other mixture, working uniformly for about twenty minutes. Sift in slowly lflb. of dry flour, and continue stirring for another twenty minutes. Then add 4oz. of shredded blanched sweet almonds, 4oz. of candied peel, 1 winegrlassful of brandy, lib. of washed and dried currants, Cakes—continued. and lastly the whites of the nine eggs well beaten to a froth. Butter a round tin or mould, and bake for an-hour- and-three-quarters to two hours. Irish Luncheon Cakes.—Put fib. of caster sugar with 21b. of well-dried flour into a large basin, and mix well together, adding 1 pinch of salt. Rub into this mixture 4oz. of fresh butter, and then add fib. of washed and dried currants, loz. of mixed candied peel, chopped small, and 1 teaspoonful of Fig. 278. Oblong Cake-tin (Mathews and Son). bicarbonate of soda. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a froth, add them to the mixture, and beat well together ; then work in sufficient butter-milk to make a stiff dough. Half fill some oblong buttered tins (see Fig. 278) with the dough, set for an hour, and bake until of a light brown colour. Italian Cakes.—Prepare a sponge-cake mixture with 14oz. of sugar, twelve eggs, and lOoz. of flour, and when the eggs and sugar have been beaten up to more than twice their original bulk, add 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, a flavouring of lemon essence, adding the flour gradually. Pour the mixture into a biscuit-bag, drop a small quantity at a time on to sheets of greased paper, dust them over with powdered sugar, and bake in a slack oven. Remove the paper by damping, and use the Cakes as required. “Johnny” (or Journey) Cakes (American).—Mix 1 pinch of salt with 1 pint of Indian corn-meal, and add as much boiling water as will form it into a paste as thick as a batter. Beat it up well for a time, and spread it on a board about fin. thick. Then take the board with the Cake on it, and place it in front of a good fire and bake it. When it is well done and of a good brown colour, cut it into quarters or squares, and open each piece and put butter between the layers. About twenty minutes will be sufficient time for cooking, and they should be sent to table quite hot. Josephine Cake.—Take 2 table-spoonfuls of crushed loaf sugar, and add to it fib. of fresh butter that has been warmed and beaten to a cream. Before crushing the sugar, rub it well upon the rind of a lemon. Then add fib. of well-picked, washed, and dried currants, three eggs well beaten, fib. of flour, and 2 table-spoonfuls of white wine or Madeira. Beat all these ingredients up well together, and put into a buttered mould and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Jubilee Cakes.—Put 4flb. of flour, lfoz. of bicarbonate of soda, and lfoz. of cream of tai’tar into a sieve, and sift it through on to a table; make a cavity in the centre, and work in 22oz. of butter slightly warmed and 30oz. of caster sugar ; stir in well with the hands, and add gradually eleven eggs and sufficient churned milk to form a batter. Cut it into shapes, bake in a moderate oven, and use when cold. Kettle Cake.—Put into a saucepan twelve eggs, lib. of sugar, lib. of butter, lib. of light flour, 1 teaspoonful of mace, and the rind and juice of a large lemon. Put it on the fire, and stir with a large spoon for about hree-quarters-of- an-hour, till light; then put the mixture into a tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Knob Cakes.—Warm fib. of butter, beat it until creamy, then mix in the beaten yolks of six eggs, fib. of caster sugar, fib. of finely-sifted flour, and the grated peel of half a lemon. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and add them at the last. Work the ingredients until well mixed. Butter some baking-sheets, put the mixture on in small rocky lumps, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, lay a blanched almond on the top of each, strew caster sugar and a few well-washed currants over the top, and bake in a moderate oven.