53 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Asparagus—continued. (3) Ude recommends that after being partly boiled in salt water, the “ peas ” shall be dried upon a soft towel. Then put them into a stewpan with a small piece of butter, a bunch of parsley and green onions, and toss in the stewpan over the fire for ten minutes. Add a little flour and a small lump of sugar, and moisten with boiling water. They must boil over a large fire. When well reduced, take out the parsley and green onions, and thicken with the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a little cream, and a pinch of salt. “ Remember,” he says, “ that in this entremet sugar must predominate, and that there is to be no sauce.” Asparagus Points may be dressed in something of the same style as the foregoing receipt of Ude’s for Asparagus Peas. Boil them till done, put them into cold water for two or three minutes to harden a little, and then drain them upon a sieve. Put them into a stewpan, with a little green onion and parsley tied together, 2oz. of fresh butter, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, a little grated nutmeg and salt. Set the pan upon the stove to simmer very gently for five or six minutes. Remove the onion and parsley, and mix in a pat of fresh butter and a liaison of the yolks of four eggs mixed with igill of cream. Stir very gently so as to set the liaison, and pile upon a dish in a dome. Asparagus Points with Cream.—Cut off the points or heads of a bundle of Asparagus, wash and drain them, put into a saucepan with a little warmed butter. Set the sauce- pan on the fire, stir in a little bechamel sauce, and let them remain until done. Take them out, put on a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Asparagus a la Pompadour.—Untie a bundle of Asparagus, put it into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil it until done. Take the sticks out, cut them into lengths of about 2in., put in a cloth near the fire, and let them dry. Prepare a little sauce with vinegar, butter, yolk of egg, salt and pepper. Put the pieces of Asparagus on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Asparagus Pudding.—Put 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced lean ham into a basin, and mix it up with four well-beaten eggs, ljoz of warmed butter, lj- table-spoonfuls of flour, and salt and pepper to taste. When these are thoroughly in- corporated, add 1 breakfast-cupful of the green part of Asparagus cut up into pieces about the size of a pea, and stir them well in, and then add sufficient milk to give the mixture the appearance and consistence of butter. Butter a mould, taking one that is just large enough to hold all the ingredients, put in the mixture, cover it over with a floured cloth, tie securely, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for a couple of hours. Turn it out on to a dish when done, pour round melted butter, and serve. Sweet sauce may be substituted for the melted butter if desired. Asparagus Salad.—(1) It is not necessary to boil Asparagus especially for this, as any that has been left over cold will do up well in this way, and produce a very tasty dish with cold meat or cheese. Wash off any melted butter which may remain on with hot salt water, and cool. Cut off the tender points, arrange them on a glass dish, and pour over a cream salad- dressing. (2) German Style.—Take sufficient cold boiled Asparagus points, and put them into a basin with one-third of their quantity of crayfish-tails. Season with salt and pepper. Pass through a sieve the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, and beat up with a little oil, vinegar, and salt to the consistency of thick cream. Pour this over the Asparagus and crayfish- tails, and dish in a salad-bowl. Crayfish are not sufficiently common to be used generally in this way; but almost any cold shell-fish will do. Asparagus and Salmon Salad.—Put two bunches of Asparagus into a saucepan with lqt. of cold water and 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil them for twenty minutes. Take tnem out, cut off the heads or points, and put them (the points') on a sieve to drain. Put lqt. of cooked salmon into a basin, and mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of oil, 2 of strained lemon-juice, and 1 of vinegar; sprinkle over 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and a third of that quantity of pepper. Put the basin into the ice-box or chest, and let it remain for two hours. Turn it out on to the centre of the dish, put round Asparagus—continued. the Asparagus points when cold, pour 1 breakfast-cupful of mayonnaise salad-dressing over the salmon, and serve with a garnish of slices of lemon cut into triangles, put round the dish. Asparagus Sauce (Hot).—Season about J teacupful of boiling water with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Put the yolks of two eggs in the water; whisk it by the side of the fire, but do not let it boil. Add gradually |lb. of butter, broken into small pieces, and continue whisking till it presents the appearance of smooth cream. Squeeze in a small quantity of lemon- juice, and serve the sauce in a sauce-boat. This sauce is very good when served on cold slaw. Asparagus Soup.—When the season is nearly over, and the Asparagus is hard and coarse, it may be used to make a very delicious soup. About a hundred heads should be picked, scraped, and thoroughly washed, and the tops broken off as far down the stalks as possible. Cook in boiling salted water for about twenty minutes. Put the stalks into lqt. of good veal stock, and boil for twenty minutes. Cut an onion into thin slices, and fry in 3 table-spoonfuls of butter for ten minutes, being careful not to let it burn, and then add part of the Asparagus tops. Cook for a few minutes, stirring gently. Add a sprinkle or two of flour, and continue cooking for a few minutes longer. Remove the stalks from the stock, pour in the contents of the frying-pan, and boil all together for twenty minutes. Rub through a sieve. Have ready boiling 1 pint of milk and 1 pint of cream, and add to the stock. Season well with salt and pepper, and then serve. A very delicious soup. Asparagus in Spanish Style.—Boil several heads of Asparagus in salted water, and remove them from the fire when done. Pour a part of their cooking stock into a smaller pan, add a few table-spoonfuls of vinegar to it, and when it boils, poach a dozen large eggs in it. Drain off the eggs, trim them, and having piled the Asparagus on a napkin folded to occupy just the room required in the centre of the dish, lay the poached eggs round, and serve with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper mixed. This sauce is termed “ vinaigrette ”; it may be mixed before sending to table, and then it is best served in a sauce- boat. Asparagus with Young Carrots.—Partly boil three or four dozen small, young carrots of about equal size; drain them, and put them into a stewpan with butter, to fry over a moderate fire. Season, and when done thicken with a little Wloute sauce. Two minutes after, add the same amount of small Asparagus, cut into lengths of lin. each, previously also parboiled in salted water, and well drained. Let these cook thoroughly. Season, and put little bits of butter about amongst them, so soon as they are on the dish ready to be served. Boiled Asparagus.—(1) Procure the supply as freshly-cut as possible, scrape and clean as explained before, wash thoroughly, and tie with string in bundles of five or six shoots each. The bundles may be much larger, but they should not contain more than twenty-five at the most, or the centre sticks of the bundle will not cook so readily as those outside. Take care Fig. 51. Boiled Asparagus on Toast. to adjust the points so that when you cut off the bottoms of the stalks all will be of one length. Put the bundles into boiling salt-and-water, and let them boil fast, without the lid, until tender; this will take from twenty minutes to half- an-hour. Have ready some slices of toast, without crust.