72 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dee., referred to, see under their special heads. BANDES.—The term used in French cookery for strips of paste used for various purposes, such as those forming the lattice-work over a tart. Bande dn tour is the long piece of paste used to surround other pieces and keep them together; bandes des cervelas—strings of sausages. BANNOCKS.—Custom has led us to regard these cakes as of Scotch origin, whereas history tells us that in the days of King Alfred Bannocks were indigenous to all parts of England, Scotland, and Wales. The story of the burning of the cakes and the Battle of Bannockburn renders the name sufficiently familiar to us; but the Bannocks of to-day are more refined in their consti- tution than those which were formerly prepared from ground oats, dried peas, or barley-meal. Although any other meal may be used, corn-flour gives the most satis- factory results. (1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of corn-meal (corn-flour) into a basin, and mis in 1 teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk. Let the preparation cool, add two well-beaten eggs, turn the whole into a shallow earthenware dish, put it into a very hot oven, and bake. Take it out when done, and serve. These cakes may be cooked upon a griddle. (2) Put lqt. of corn-meal into a basin, pour over a sufficient quantity of boiling milk or water to scald it, and let it cool. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 egg, and lqt. of flour; mix well, set the mixture in a warm place to rise, and work in i teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Divide the mixture into the required number of pieces, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and fry. When done, take them out, drain, put on a dish, and serve. BANQUETS {Fr. Banquettes; Gtr. Banketten; Ital. Banchetti; Sp. Banquetes).—The same term runs throughout all European languages, and has evidently originated from the Latin word bancus— a bench. Such an origin is quite natural, seeing that to ancient Rome we owe all that we know of luxurious feasting. It was the habit of these conquerors of the world, upon the smallest occasion, to indulge in Banquets, served with sumptuous extravagance, but, according to Careme, who made a special study of their dishes, not of the same culinary refinement as practised in more modern times. Lavish expenditure and voluptuous ease appear to have merited higher consideration than artistic combination of fine flavours. A piece of goat’s flesh broiled on a stick, and served with peacocks’ brains or a patty of nightingales’ tongues, would meet with greater approval, on account of its outrageous cost, than a delicately-seasoned ragout made from the remnants of a previous feast. But if the Romans failed, as they certainly did, in their epicurean proclivities, they set us an example of banqueting ease that has never been equalled in modern times. Picture to yourself a Roman Banquet, with the guests, male and female, lolling at length upon softly-pillowed couches, clad in loose drapery, with arms and chests exposed at will to the cooling air, which, laden with sweet odours, is wafted now and again over their brows, heated with sweet wines. Picture to yourself the tables covered with cloth of golden tissue, or richly embroidered silks, and spread with vessels of solid gold, piled with the rich fruits of the sunny south. Picture to yourself the silent ebony slaves as they glided noiselessly from guest to guest, replenishing from huge golden vases the golden goblets held out carelessly at arm’s length. Hark to the rude boasting and loud laughter of some riotous guest as the wine drowns his sense of decorum, and his noisy shouts are heard above the strains of dreamy distant music that fill the air. Hear the rippling laughter of privileged dames as they pass the joke that should scarcely have found place in such full fair lips, and Banquets—continued. mark the freedom of their flowing drapery, which makes no effort to conceal their abundant charms. Mark all this—listen—and picture to yourself the noisy brawlers returning from such a feast as this with tempers turned and swords hanging ready at their sides: picture all this, and then—take a peep at a modern banquet, where the gentlemen guests are clad in tight-fitting costumes of sombre black, stiff collar, and light waistcoats, and ladies with low-necked dresses, and figures trussed up with stiff, tight stays, sit uncomfortably upright before a table that is laid out with consummate taste and design, but having the appearance of so much careful arrange- ment that the guests fear to destroy the picture for the indulgence of the palate. Mark the order and regu- larity with which each viand is served, and each wine supplied—sherry with fish, and port with the fruit; and at the time when the relaxation of the body should come, and the mind be given free play, and the tongue free vent of speech, there cometh instead the solemn announce- ment from the master of the toasts that the time for toasting has arrived, which means listening with enforced courtesy to the indistinct utterances of some prosy speakers, upon topics which are quite distinct from festivity, and jumping ever and again to their feet to do honour to the toast. The intervals between the speeches are devoted to hearing songs and music, which demand your entire attention, and arrest all attempts at conversation. Where is the luxury of freedom gone ? where are the rollicking Romans and their soft couches P and where are the jovial jests and laughter? Ah, where! Modern banqueters may have much to be thankful for in the improvement and superiority of their dishes, thanks to such cooks as we have around us; but if the dishes of the Romans were not refined, nor their manners either, their fruits and wines were sweet and delicious, and their notions of luxury supreme. The term Banquet is now generally applied to a feast held for the purpose of solemnising some great occasion— such as the election of Lord Mayor—Masonic and other annual festivals, or perhaps the foundation of a charity. Whatever the occasion may be, the mode of preparation and procedure are precisely the same. The decoration of the banqueting hall is in some way indicative of the occasion, and in those establishments where Banquets are plentiful, the same decorations serve time after time— Fig. 76. Bad Arrangement of Tables.