THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 194 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bream—continued. Wipe it dry, baste it with well-seasoned oil, and score it a little to allow the oil, &c., to enter. Broil the fish on both sides on a gridiron or grill over a moderate fire, baste well with oil, put it on a dish, and pour some shallot sauce over it. Broiled Sea Bream a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Clean a fresh fish, trim off the fins and tips of the tail only, and take away the gills, scraping off the scales ; then dip it quickly in cold water, wipe it dry, and score it slightly. Lay it on a dish or tin, and steep it for thirty minutes in 3oz. of good salad oil, j saltspoonful of salt, one minced onion, a little dried parsley, and 1 pinch of pepper ; then remove it, drain it well, taking away the parsley and onion if any remain on the fish, and place it on a grill or large gridiron, cooking it sharply for about five minutes, and turning it so that both sides are done. Put it on a hot dish, and serve with maitre-d’liotel sauce. Roasted Bream.—Kemove the spawn of a fresh fish, cut out the gills, and clean the fish without removing the scales; cut off the tips of the tail and fins, and dry the body. For stuffing make a stiff mixture of three eggs, 1 breakfast- cupful of breadcrumbs, 1 dessert-spoonful of candied peel, 1 teaspoonful each of almond paste and well-washed currants, 1 gill of cream, the juice of a lemon, and salt. Stuff the fish, but not to overcrowd it, and put it in the oven on a dish with sticks placed across, so as to allow the gravy to drop into the dish. Take it out when done, place it in a dish with some sauce made from the gravy, and put some slices of lemon round the dish. The juice of a lemon or orange, a piece of butter, and a little cinnamon should be added to the gravy, as this improves it very much. Soused Bream.—Clean and wash a fresh Bream, but do not cut off the fins or scale it. To jgall. of water add 1 pint of white wine or Madeira, a little spice, marjoram, and other sweet herbs; put the fish in this, boil it until done, and then take it out. Add a little ground ginger and pepper to the liquor, and boil it up again; when cold, put in the fish, and let it remain for three or four days, when it may be served with vinegar and fennel sauce. BRESIL. — Fr. for a quarter of beef dried and smoked; sometimes called Brezi. A favourite Provencal method of preserving this meat. BRETONNE, A LA.—Belonging to Brittany; in Brittany style. See Sauces. BREWERS’ MUTTON CHOPS.—See Mutton. BREWING.—The art and process of making beer. It can scarcely be argued that any special knowledge of the mysteries of Brewing is necessary to the cook; but it may be useful to give just the outlines. In the first place, barley undergoes a steeping in water tanks, which causes it to sprout, and indicates that its starchy components have been converted into sugar. This malt, as it is then called, is dried and ground, and placed in a mash-tun. Boiling water is thrown upon it, and it is “ mashed,” or infused, and a sugary fluid drawn off. Tins is transferred to a boiler and boiled up with sufficient hops, and in course of time run off into a cooler. When sufficiently cool, this “ wort,” as it is called, is run off into tuns, and yeast added, which speedily sets up fer- mentation. After a time this process ceases or is arrested, and the beer is drawn off into casks, in which a secondary fermentation takes place, besides clearing, and the liquor is ready for consumption. It is, how- ever, improved by keeping. See Beer. BRICK TEA.—The Chinese have a method of com- pressing tea into the shapes of bricks or slabs, for which they find a ready sale in Siberia, Tartary, and also in Russia, whither it is carried on the backs of camels. To use this Brick Tea, it is first rubbed into a fine powder and boiled with alkaline steppewater to which salt and fat have been added, and the liquor is afterwards carefully strained off. Such large cpiantities of this tea are con- sumed by the different tribes frequenting the large tracts Brick Tea—continued. of land mentioned, that the exact process of its prepara- tion may be interesting. The brick is first broken up and then a small quantity, sufficient for the purpose according to taste, say lib., is infused in about 2galls. of water and boiled. Into this a large ladleful of ghee (a sort of fluid butter) is poured, and a goodly supply of salt; then the whole is stirred and churned up with a stout stick until it becomes a smooth, oily, and brown liquid, not unlike thin cocoa in appearance. BRIDAGE.—A term used by French cooks for the process of tying up the limbs of game or poultry with string. BRIDE CAKES.—These are more commonly known as wedding cakes, but either name, according to old traditions, should lie correct. The custom of having a special cake at a wedding was introduced into this country by the Romans, as well as the nuptial ring, this latter signifying a form of servitude; but the cake or biscuit extended its signification to fruitfulness, hospi- tality, and prosperity. The custom of throwing rice over a bride has the same intention, but may be regarded as properly out of date since the Bride Cake has been introduced. For many centuries after the Romans had left this country the practice of breaking a cake or biscuit over the bride’s head was continued, and the fragments were picked up and piled before her to dis- tribute among her friends; and then came the Restora- tion of Charles II., and with him came French cooks, who speedily converted the ancient biscuit into a delicious confectionery, iced with sugar, which, as time went on, grew into the beautiful production that graces the wedding breakfast of to-day. We give a Plate showing typical specimens of modern cakes. The Bride Cake. This day, my Julia, thou must make, For mistresse bride, the wedding cake; Knead out the dow, and it will be To paste of almonds turn’d by thee; Or kisse it thou, but once or twice, And for the bride cake there’ll be spice. Herrick (17th century). (1) Beat to a cream lib. of warmed butter with lib. of caster sugar ; then beat in twelve eggs, two at a time, and when all are in and the batter whisked for three-quarters- of-an-hour, stir in gradually lib. of sifted flour; add lilb. each of raisins and currants, both chopped, fib. of pounded bitter almonds, -jib. of candied peel minced very fine, the grated rinds of an orange and a lemon, and 1 gill of brandy. Pour the mixture into a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake until perfectly done. This may be ascertained by stabbing the centre with a bright skewer—it should return quite clean. Turn upside down, and let it get cold prepara- tory to icing and ornamenting. (2) Beat up lib. of butter in a pan held before the fire till it melts ; then add lib. of powdered loaf or caster sugar, and beat again; add jib. of fine flour and four eggs, beat up with the hand, and add -jib. more flour and four more eggs; beat again, stir in another jib. of flour, and 2jlb. of well- washed and dried currants ; next add jib. of stoned raisins, jib. of sweet almonds blanched and shredded, 2oz. each of candied citron-, lemon-, and orange-peel sliced, joz. of mace, loz. of cinnamon bruised in a mortar, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Mix thoroughly into a good dough, paper the tin, and bake in a slow oven. When done, remove from the tin, and let it get cold turned upside down on the bottom of the tin. When quite cold and set, it may be iced and decorated. (3) Take 21b. of caster sugar, 1 gill each of brandy and sherry, and 41b. of Vienna flour, well dried and sifted light. Whip 41b. of butter before a fire to a cream, and slowly mix in the sugar, stirring it continuously ; add the yolks of eighteen eggs, and then beat up the whites to a froth and add them, beating all together ; now add lib. of sweet almonds blanched and shredded, minced, or pounded, with a little orange-flower water, and pound joz. each of mace, cinnamon, cloves, and