190 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bread—continued. fire, and boil until it gets quite thick, stirring all the time. Servo in a sauco-turccn. (2) Boil about 41b. of Breadcrumbs in 1 pint of milk, with a little onion or shallot, and salt and pepper to taste. It should be thick when done. Before removing from the fire, add a small piece of butter. (3) Crumble up very fine T|oz. of fresh Breadcrumbs, and place it in a saucepan with not quite 4 breakfast-cupful of cold water; add 4oz. of butter, 4 table-spoonful of salt, and six whole peppers. Cook for five minutes, pour in £ breakfast- cupful of cream or milk, and then cook again for five minutes. Serve in a sauce-bowl, having first removed the peppers. (4) For Game.—Take a thick slice of Bread and dry it in the oven; roll it into rather coarse crumbs, and sift them through a fine sieve. Take the fine ones that fall through, put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk and a small piece of onion, and boil for ten or fifteen minutes. Season the sauce with salt and pepper, take out the onion, and add 1 table-spoonful of butter. Put the coarse crumbs of Bread in a frying-pan with loz. of butter made very hot before the crumbs are put in, and fry them till nicely browned. Cover the breast of the birds with the browned crumbs, pour the sauce round them, and serve. (5) Boil 4 breakfast-cupful of fine Breadcrumbs with one onion chopped fine in 1 pint of milk for a quarter-of-an-hour, and add loz. of butter and 1 pinch each of salt and pepper. Fry 4 breakfast-cupful of coarser crumbs in loz. of butter until brown. Pour the sauce round but not over tho birds, and sprinklo the fried Breadcrumbs over the whole. (6) Boil 1 pint of milk and pour it into a sauce-tureen over 41b. of Breadcrumbs, with a little grated nutmeg and pepper, stirring gently to mix. Twenty whole peppercorns and two blades of mace boiled with the milk may be used instead of tho nutmeg and pepper, and sometimes a bay-leaf. This is a very tasty sauce for those who dislike the flavour of onion or shallot. (7) Boil the head, legs, and neck of a fowl for two hours, with a little salt, mace, and a few peppercorns. Pour \ pint of this broth over 6oz. of finely-sifted Breadcrumbs, and boil for ten minutes. When done, add 2 tahle-spoonfuls of cream. Bread Soup.— (1) Chop up four small onions, a small stick of celery, and two turnips, and boil in lqt. of slightly-salted water; when the vegetables are tender, put in another quart of water. Break up .’-lb. of crusts of Bread, add them to the broth, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Stir the Bread until it is broken up, then add loz. of butter, 1 pinch each of salt and pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of parsley dried and finely powdered. This is a savoury light dish for a delicate stomach. (2) Boil a turnip and an onion in lqt. of water until done, and then take them out and rub them through a sieve to make a puree. Work this into 1 breakfast-cupful of French roll or other crumb, put them all back into the water, and boil for half-an-hour, stirring frequently to prevent the Bread from sticking to the pan. Add by degrees 1 pint of milk, 1 teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, and 1 loz. of butter, and boil up again, stirring well. Servo very hot. (3) BoB two slices of Bread, toasted brown, in 1 pint of water; add an egg well beaten up, loz. of butter, 1 teacupful of milk, and a little salt and pepper, (4) Cut three penny French rolls into moderately thick slices, and pour boiling water on them; leave them for five or ten minutes, then pass the whole through a fine hair sieve into a saucepan, and place over the fire. Slightly warm 3oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy. Beat the yolks of four eggs with 4 pint of milk. Move the saucepan containing' the soup to the side of the fire, stir in the butter, and when it is well mixed, stir in the beaten eggs. Season tho soup with salt and grated nutmeg, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. Bread Sticks.—dissolve 4 teacupful of butter in 4 pint of lukewarm boiled milk; beat the white of an egg to a stiff ■■ froth; dissolve 40Z- of German yeast in 4 teacupful of cold water ; mix lqt. of flour, 2oz. of sugar, and 1 saltspoonful of salt; add all these together, and knead them well. Put the dough thus formed to rise overnight, and in the morning roll small pieces in balls about the size of large walnuts ; roll these balls into sticks about lOin. long, put them on lightly-greased baking-sheets about liin. or 2in. apart, place them in a cool place to rise for half-an-hour, and hen bake half-an-hour in Bread—continued. a moderate oven. If baked too quickly, these sticks will not be dry and crisp, as they should be. Bread-and-Suet Dumplings.—(1) Grate about 41b. of stale crumb of Bread, and chop an equal weight of beef-suet; put them in a basin, and add the/juice and grated rind of one lemon, 41b. of moist sugar, and two well-beaten eggs. When well blended, divide the mixture into several equal-sized por- tions, roll these into balls, tie them in separate cloths, and boil for thirty minutes. When cooked, turn the dumplings out of the cloths on to a hot dish, and serve them with a sauceboatful of sweet sauce. (2) Put in a basin some grated Breadcrumbs and some finely- chopped suet, in equal quantities; add a small quantity of salt, some grated fiutmeg or other spice, and 4 wineglassful of white wine, and mix all well together. Divide the mixture, shape it into balls, and throw these into a saucepan of boiling water, previously tying them in cloths. In thirty minutes, drain the dumplings, put them on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet sauce. The hands should be kept well floured whilst shaping the dumplings. Bread or Toast Jelly.—Put some Bread or toast into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it remain until it is dissolved; then pass it through a fine hair sieve, and add 1 table-spoonful of brandy and the yolk of an egg beaten up in hot water. It is then ready for use. Breadcrumbs.—Take some pieces of stale brown Bread, cut them into slices of equal thickness, put these in the oven, and bake till light brown;' roll them with a rolling-pin till they are broken into small crumbs, then sift these crumbs through a coarse sieve. Any crumbs that are too large to pass through the sieve, roll and sift again till all have passed through. Put the crumbs into tin canisters with tight-fitting ' lids. They may be used for thickening soup or hot milk for children or invalids. Breadcrumb Panada.—Panada is employed as an auxiliary to forcemeats, in order to give them consistency. Breadcrumb Panada is prepared with flour of wheat or rice-meal, the latter being preferable. Pour into a small stewpan 1 breakfast- cupful of water ; let the liquid boil, then take it off tho fire, and put into it enough flour to make a thickish batter. Dry this over tho fire till it will not adhere to the sides of the stewpan, then pour it into a kitchen basin, and let it cool before using. Breadcrumb Pie.—Finely chop some cold cooked meat (any kind can be used), season it with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix with some finely-grated Bread- crumbs. Put the mixture into a pie-dish, moisten it with a little rich gravy, cover it with a thick layer of finely-grated Bread- crumbs, put some small pieces of butter about on the top of tho Breadcrumbs, and put the pie into the oven till well browned. Serve while hot. Breadcrumb Pudding1. — Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Breadcrumbs into a saucepan with 4 breakfast- cupful of milk, and boil them. When thick, move the saucepan off the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Butter a tart-dish, turn the pudding into it, and bake in a slow oven for three-quarters- of-an-hour. Spread some straw- berry jam on the top of tho pudding, and mask it with the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth with 4oz. of caster sugar, smoothing it over with the blade of a knife dipped in hot water. Brown the pudding under a salamander, and serve at once. Breadcrumbs and Raspings.—Crumble stale Bread as fine as possible, and rub it through a coarse sieve ; then lay it out on a baking-sheet and put it in a very slow oven for a few minutes to dry. Stale household Bread may be crumbled on a grater (see Fig. 204).