THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 107 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. of brown sugar Put a weight oyer it, and leave it in the pickle for a fortnight or so, turning it over several times. When the meat is wanted for use, soak it for a few hours, to wash off the pickle, and put it into cold water to boil. When done and ready to serve, drain it, and trim it neatly; then dish up, and moisten the dish with a little of the gravy Serve with vegetables in season and peas pudding. Boiled Corned Beef with Spinach.—(1) Take 31b. of rump or brisket of Corned Beef, and put it into a saucepan, cover- ing it with fresh water; boil briskly for an-hour-and-a-half, and serve with boiled spinach. (2) The same as for the above, only substituting 2qts. of kale-sprouts for the spinach half-an-hour before the Beef is cooked; then arrange the cooked kale-sprouts on a dish, and lay the Corned Beef upon them, and serve Boiled Fillet of Beef with Poached Eggs.—Trim and lard a fillet of Beef, tie it round with broad tape to keep it in shape, put it into a saucepan with an onion and carrot cut in slices, and a small bunch of sweet herbs; pour over 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine and sufficient stock to nearly cover it, and sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste. Put the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the meat is quite cooked. Take out and dish the meat when done, skim and strain the gravy, and poach a few eggs in it; remove them, and cook some mushrooms and artichoke bottoms in it, arrange the whole round the Beef, and serve. Boiled Bound of Salted Beef.—To the famous Alexis Soyer, cooks are indebted for many a valuable hint, especially in preparing those dishes which may be considered purely British—such as this. He says that it must be cut pretty freely from the knuckle, and placed in a brine-tub. Then cover it well with common salt, rubbing the salt well in. Leavo it until the next day to soak, when again rub it with the salt and brine created by the gravy from the meat. Repeat the rubbing every other day for a fortnight, that is if the meat weighs from 301b. to 351b. Larger or smaller joints would take more or less time, according to one’s own judgment Take it out of the pickle in time, let it drain twenty minutes or more, and then force it into a good shape, folding the fat round, fixing with skewers, and tying it round with a few yards of very wide tape. When ready to boil, tie it up in a thin cloth, place it in a large stockpot with plenty of cold water, set upon a good fire, and when beginning to boil draw it to the corner to simmer for five hours. Two hours before it is done, put in eight fine carrots, scraped and cut into six or eight long pieces, twelve turnips (peeled), and two suet puddings weighing from 2gib. to 31b. apiece. Putting all these articles into the stockpot will perhaps cause the water to cease boiling; if so, place it right over the fire until it bubbles again, and then move to the side as before. When the meat is done, take out the round, and let it drain for ten minutes; take it from the cloth, detach tho tape, take out the skewers, replacing them as you take them out with long silver ones, set upon a large hot-water dish, and pour over about lqt. of the liquor it was boiled in. As the meat looks coarse and untempting in its rough state, cut a large slice from the top about 2in. or a little less in thickness, so as to present a fresh level surface (the piece cut off does for lots of purposes), lay the carrots and turnips tastefully around, and serve. Put tho puddings upon a separate dish, sending them up to table one after the other rather than altogether —they will eat so very much lighter in this way. Boiled Bump of Beef.—Take a piece of rump of Beef (Pig. 102, 2), bone it, roll it up, tie it with string, put it into a boiler, cover it well with cold water, add salt, and let tho water boil, skimming it carefully. Directly it boils, move it to tho side of the fire to simmer. Prepare and cut up plenty of vegetables, and put into the boiler with the meat. Boil steadily for five or six hours, according to the size of the joint. The rump generally requires a long time for cooking. Remove the meat, and set on a dish to drain ; trim it, and dish up surrounded with vegetables. Tomato or piquant sauce, or simply a good thickened gravy, can be served separately. Boiled Salted Aitchbone of Beef (Fig. 119).—(1) A good large one would weigh from 151b. to 201b. Pickle it for one Beef—continued. week, then boil nearly three hours, and serve with vege- tables, and a suet pudding separate, or dumplings round the dish. If to be eaten cold, do not take tho tape, with which it is tied up, from it until cold; trim the top, run an ornamented silver skewer in at tho extremity, and servo garnished with sprigs of green parsley. Fig. 119. Aitchbone of Beef. (2) Trim an aitchbone of Beef (Pig. 119), put it into a bowl, rub it well with 41b. of salt and |oz. of saltpetre, and let it remain in this for ten days, rubbing it with tho brine, and turning it once or twice a day. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, and boil slowly for about five hours. When done, take it out, drain it, and serve with a garnish of cooked vegetables and a little of the liquor, slightly coloured with browning, poured over it. It may be rolled, tied, and skewered if desired. Boiled Salted Boll of Beef.—The sirloin of Beef, boned, and salted for fourteen or eighteen days, is best for this, and makes an excellent remove. The meat should bo boiled immediately after being removed from the brine. Wash it, cut it straight on the side, roll it up, and bind it with tape; put it into a large vessel, cover it completely with cold water, add to it some vegetables, long slices of carrots and turnips, let it just boil up, and then simmer gently for three hours. Next remove the vessel off tho fire so that tho liquid ceases to boil, but yet keeps hot; let it be for two hours, and then tho moat should be well done and tender. Servo with a good brown sauce, and garnish with vegetables according to the season. Boiled Salted Bound of Beef.—(1) Cut any hard uneat- able parts off a round of Beef, put it into a bowl, and rub it well over with ioz. of saltpetre mixed with 41b. of salt. Let the joint remain in this pickle for about ten days, rubbing it and turning it daily. Take it out, drain off the pickle as much as possible, roll it into shape, securing it with string and skewers, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil slowly for about fivo hours. Care must bo taken not to boil too fast, or tho meat will be spoiled. When done, take it out, turn it, remove the string and wooden skewers, and fasten it with silver or electro-plated ones; put it on a dish, pour round a little of the liquor mixed with a small quantity of browning, put a few cooked vegetables round it for garnish, and serve very hot. (2) (Scarlet) Put a round of Beef into a basin or bowl with a good pickle, let it remain for four days, then rub it over with |oz. of salt mixed with l^oz. of saltpetre very finely powdered. This will give it the required scarlet appear- ance, which is much esteemed. Let it remain for a day or so, then rub in a mixture of \oz. of pepper, the samo of allspice, 7oz. of moist sugar, and lib. of warm Beef-suet. When this is well rubbed in, stick loz. of cloves in the meat, lay tho remainder of the suet-mixture that is not rubbed in on tho top, put it into a saucepan with 2 or 3 pints of water poured over it, cover ovor the saucepan, and cook the meat slowly over a clear firo until done, allowing thirty minutes to each pound. Care must be taken to let the meat stew and not boil, otherwise it would be spoiled. When done, put the meat on a hot dish, and serve.