31 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces. &-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Apples—continued. the marmalade until you have covered it and completely hidden the Apples. Strew pounded sugar lightly over all, and put into a quick oven for a few minutes, till crisp and bright yellow. Serve instantly, as it is worthless cold. If you have a lemon at hand, it will improve the flavour of the Apples to put a little both of the rind and of the juice into the marmalade. (5) Put a dozen large pared and cored Apples into a sauce- pan with sufficient sugar to sweeten, and cook them slowly for from four to five hours. Beat to a pulp, and put a layer of this at the bottom of a souffle dish; over that put a layer of stewed preserved Apple sours, covering over again with the remainder of the Apple pulp. Put the dish in a moderate oven, and hake for an hour. Take it out, cover the Apple over with sugar icing, return it to the oven to brown for a few minutes, and serve very hot. (6) This is not an elaborate dish, as described by Jules Gouffe. Take eighteen Apples, cut them in quarters, peel them, take out the cores, and cut them iu slices ^iu. thick. Put into a saute-pan 6oz. of butter, the sliced Apples, and 4oz. of powdered sugar, and stir over a brisk fire for about fifteen minutes. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of apricot jam. Put the Apples on a round dish, raising them towards the centre. Whip the whites of three eggs, and when very firm mix gently with 4oz. of powdered sugar. Cover the Apples thickly with this mixture; sprinkle some sugar over, and put into a slow oven for ten minutes; when the top assumes a nice yellow colour, the dish may be served. (7) Urbain-Dubois gives a very pretty arrangement for an Apple Meringue in his book of “Artistic Cookery.” It is almost too intricate for general use, and requires great care and neatness in building. He tells us to get eight or ten small Kennet Apples; peel, core, and boil them in a light syrup, or in water, keeping them very white. When soft, hut not falling, let them cool, and mask them with their own syrup reduced to a jelly. Into the hollow of each of the Apples put a few preserved cherries. Again, cut eight or ten Apples into quarters, peel them, remove the pips, blanch them slightly, and place them in a flat stewpan, with 2oz. of butter and a piece of vanilla. Sprinkle sugar over, let them cook, turning them, and being careful to keep the pieces whole. When cooked, moisten them with 4 table-spoonfuls of apricot marmalade, take them off the fire, and let them cool in the stewpan. Three-quarters-of-an-hour before serving, lay a few pieces of toast at the bottom of a dish so as to form a circular platform, mask this with a layer of Apple Marmalade, and upon this arrange in a pyramid the cooked quarters. Then mask this pyramid with longish beads of meringue squeezed through a silk bag (poche). The decoration is in imitation of a pineapple Begin the beading by making small ones all round the top, enlarging as the circles get larger. Stick long shreds of blanched almonds into these beads. When this part of the performance is completed, sprinkle powdered sugar over all, and put the dish into a moderate oven till it takes a tinge of colour. When it is baked, stick slips of angelica, cut to imitate pineapple leaves, into the top, and surround the base of the pyramid with the Apples con- taining the cherries (see Fig. 32). Apples —continued. Apple Molasses.—This is very useful for dressing other dishes, because of its piquant flavour. It is made by boiling a large number of Apples in a boiler, with just enough water to steam them—say to about one-fourth of the depth of the boiler filled with fruit. When soft, turn them into a basket with a little clean straw at the bottom, place a board, such as a copper-lid, on them, and pile weights upon that. The juice may be caught in a tub or earthenware crock. Remove the juice to a large galvanised saucepan, and reduce by simmering to the con- sistency of treacle. This will keep well in tightly-covered jars or bottles. Apple Open-Tart.—Put lqt. of Apples, pared, cored, and cut into slices, into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of moist sugar - pour over 1 gill of water, and add the grated peel of a lemon and half a nutmeg, also grated. Cook gently until the Apples are quite tender, then put the mixture into a basin and let it cool. Put it to about -Jin. in depth into a shallow pie-dish lined with rich puff paste. Have ready some more of the paste, rolled and cut into strips, brushed over with yolk of egg, mixed with a little milk and sugar. Arrange these strips over the top of the Apple mixture from side to side of the edge of the crust, trim the tart, and bake in a moderate oven until done, which is ascertained by the crust easily separating from the dish. Turn it out carefully on to a dish, and serve. Apple Pancakes.—The same batter as that used for ordinary pancakes is used in this case; and it may be observed that it is always better to mix batter with yeast in it some three or four hours before it is required for cooking, in order to give it time to rise, and insure the pancakes being light. Break four eggs into a large bowl, and beat up well, adding 1 table-spoonful of yeast, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 wine- glassful of brandy, and a little powdered cinnamon or grated nutmeg. In a smaller basin mix as much flour and milk as may bring the whole to the consistency of a batter, and when it is worked smooth, stir it into the large bowl with the other ingredients. Cover with a cloth, and set in a warm place to work. Prepare a few Apples by coring, peeling, and mincing small. With each quantity taken for a pancake—say 1 teacupful (according to the size of pan used)—stir in a piled teaspoonful of the minced Apple. If too much Apple is added, the pan- cakes are liable to break, unless made extra thick. These— indeed, all pancakes—should be sent to table “ hot and hot,” accompanied by pounded sugar and oranges or lemons, cut into halves, for squeezing over. Apple Paste.—This preparation requires some knowledge of confectionery ; but as that is now so easily obtained, no further difficulty will be found in manufacturing this elegant sweet- meat, for which we are indebted to the famous Wm. Gunter. Procure some good Apples, core and peel them, and boil in a little water in a covered pan until they are soft; when done, take them out, mash them, and pass through a sieve. Next weigh the mashed Apples, and put them into a pan. Take the same weight of sugar, clarify it, and when it has boiled to the feather (see Sugar-boiling), remove it from the fire, and stir in the mashed Apples. Set the mixture on a slow fire, stir well, and when it just simmers, or boils very gently, remove it, and pour it out thin on small plates, or into shallow moulds or rings of various shapes; the latter should be arranged on a clean tin, or the paste may be spx-ead on sheets of tin, placed level, with a thin knife. Dry them in a drying-stove or oven at a very low temperature until the paste is sufficiently hard to be manipulated. The strips may then be tied in knots, and crystallised if desired. If it is desired to colour this paste for any purpose, the colour must be put into the pulp after the cooking is finished, and then the paste must be warmed up for one moment before taking off the fire, as colours do not stand when exposed for any length of time to boiling-heat. Apple Pickle.—To make this, all that is necessary is to put the ingredients into an earthenware covered jar, and set in a hot oven until the Apples become clear. As it will keep in wide-mouthed stoppered bottles, we give the proportions for a considerable quantity; half, or a quarter, or less, may be made : 61b. of good cooking Apples (cored, pared, and minced), 41b. of powdered loaf sugar, lqt. of vinegar, 2 teaspoonfuls of mace, 2 table-spoonfuls of bruised cinnamon, two dozen cloves, 4 tea- spoonfuls of allspice, 2 table-spoonfuls of bruised ginger, and