227 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. it to run freely all over tlie mould. These may be further dusted throughout with very fine dried breadcrumbs, those not adhering being emptied out, so that the shape of the Cake may not be unduly interfered with. Papering the rings or hoops is frequently resorted to when the colour of the outside of the Cake is of importance. With a little trouble the paper, which should be greased with butter, may be cut to fit the sides and bottoms, it being advisable to put two or three sheets at the bottom of a ring or hoop, and it may be omitted altogether in a tin with a bottom. For Cakes that are expected to rise above the rim of the tin, the paper lining should also rise above it in proportion. Special Cakes, and those compounded of any particular ingredient from winch the name is derived, such as Bride Cakes, Twelfth Cakes, Lemon Cake, Plum Cake, &c., will be found described under their particular denominative headings. Aberfrau Cakes.—These delicious German Cakes are made by warming ^lb. of fresh butter and beating it into a cream. Mix together fib- each of fine flour and caster sugar, and mix in the butter, forming a stiff dough, with a little milk if required. Boll the paste out thin, cut into circles, mark the tops according to fancy, and bake on a greased baking-sheet for fifteen minutes in a sharp oven. Adelaide Cake.—Beat the yolks of fifteen eggs with lOoz. of powdered white sugar for twenty-five or thirty minutes, then stir into them 8oz. of ground rice and 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water or brandy, and the grated rind of two lemons. Beat the whites of seven eggs to a stiff froth, mix this in lightly, and continue to stir the Cake for twenty minutes; then pour it into a round Cake-tin lined with buttered paper and bake in a quick oven for thirty minutes. Admiral Cake. — To Alexis Soyer we are indebted for the following fanciful Cake: Paper a tin mould shaped like a boat, arranging it round the sides in such a manner that the paper rises an inch or so above the edge of the mould, which should be 18in. in length, Gin. in breadth, and about 3|in. in height; fill this with a sponge-Cake mixture made with twenty eggs and the other ingredients in proportion, having previously buttered and floured the interior of the mould; then bake the Cake an-liour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn it out of the mould, and mask the exterior with chocolate icing; when dry, partly hollow out the interior, leaving a wall nearly lin. thick, also a piece across the centre to fix the mast upon. The ladders, guns, rigging, and mast should be made out of office-paste, and baked lightly in a moderate oven. Mask the guns with a chocolate icing, made rather darker than the vessel; form the muzzles with small rings of puff paste, and, when baked, fix them, with the mast and rigging, in their respective places. Place the vessel on an oval dish, laying it rather on one side as though tossed by the waves ; put rolls of green- coloured wine jelly (see Colourings) round the ship, then lay some thin slices of the same over the rolls; this will give a very fair imitation of waves. Some rice or wafer-paper can be used for the sails, which should be fixed to the mast as though filled with wind, bulging upon the side that the vessel is leaning towards. Make a flag of the same paper, paint it the required colours, in water colours, and fix it out at the stern; mix some apricot marmalade with wine and brandy, pour it in the vessel, and when ready to serve fill the inside with vanilla ice. The ropes may be formed with spun sugar, which should be fixed to the rigging just before serving. The above makes a very pretty dish, and the whole of it may be eaten. If there is no vessel-shaped mould handy, bake the sponge in a long mould and shape it afterwards with a knife as much like a vessel as possible. The sponge should always be baked a day or two before using, and clear white jelly can be used in place of the green, but it will not have so pretty or artistic an effect. African Cakes.—Separate the yolks and whites of fifteen eggs, beat the yolks with lib. of caster sugar, and sift in 31 breakfast-cupfuls of flour ; when quite smooth, whip the whites of the eggs, and stir them in with the yolks; put the mixture in a biscuit-bag with a funnel about fin. in diameter, and press out pieces of paste on to a buttered baking-sheet, making them about the size of a penny. Put them in the oven, and Cakes—continued. bake for half-an-hour. When they are done they should be of a light colour; take the Cakes off the tin and let them cool. Scoop a little out of the centre of each round, fill each hollow with a little sweetened vanilla-flavoured whipped cream, and put one Cake over another ; when all are done this way, ice them over with chocolate icing, and serve when the icing is cold. Albany Cakes.—Mix with lqt. of milk six well-beaten eggs, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and 1 of salt. Stir in enough flour to make a stiff batter. Butter some little round tins, and half fill them with the batter. Bake twenty minutes in a hot oven, and dust the tops over with caster sugar. Five minutes before removing them from the oven, currants and finely-minced citron-peel are sometimes added. Albert Cakes.—(1) Cream lib. of warmed butter with lib. of sugar, beat up twelve large eggs, and add ; mix, by sifting, ioz. of bicarbonate of soda and f oz. of tartaric acid with 21b. of best flour ; then put in |lb. of currants, well washed and dried. Mix all together into a dough with sufficient milk, and bake on a baking-sheet with a small edge. Cut into squares when cold. (2) Bub 6oz. of lard into Gib. of flour, and mix in 4oz. of cream of tartar and 2oz. of bicarbonate of soda. Make a hollow in the centre, add 21b. of sugar, 31b. of well- washed currants, and sufficient milk to form a dough, having it moderately soft; put it into a well-greased tin, spread it rather thin, brush it over occasionally with milk, and bake in a moderate oven. Let it get cold, cut it into small pieces, and uso as desired. American White Cake.—Work 2oz. of butter into a cream; beat up the whites of six eggs in 1 pint of milk. Add to lib. of flour 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and 1 tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, mix the butter with the flour, Fig. 250. Square Cake-tin (Mathews and Son'. rubbing well in, and then make into a dough with the milk and eggs. Butter a square Cake-tin (see Fig. 250), pour the mixture in, and bake in a quick oven for one hour. When done, brush over the top with white of egg and sift caster sugar over it, replacing in the oven for two or throe minutes. Ames Cake.—Mix together lib. of flour, fib. of caster sugar, and H teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Bub into this -|lb. of butter. Beat up the yolks of five and the whites of three eggs and add to the flour with 1 teacupful of milk. Flavour with the grated peel of one lemon. Mix thoroughly, place between two greased baking-sheets in a moderate oven, and bake for about twenty-five minutes. Make a good icing by stirring 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar into the whites of two eggs, and flavour with lemon. Ice over the top thinly. Angels’ Bread.—Work lib. of butter and lib. of fine sugar into 111b. of sifted flour, and add by degrees the whites of eight eggs, beaten up with 1 teacupful of new milk and a sufficient quantity of vanilla flavouring. With the flour should first be mixed up 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, or these may be 2 a 2