TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 211 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fee., referred to, see under their special heads. Buns—continued. Hanover Buns.—Dissolve 1 table-spoonful of fresh yeast in a little over § teacupful of warm milk, mix with it jib. of flour, and leave it to rise. Put in a basin lib. of flour, the grated rind of one lemon, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and -lib. of butter rubbed into the flour; into this beat with the hand the yolks of three eggs, the white of one, and the yeast. When it begins to rise and bubble, put on buttered baking-sheets in the shape of small cakes, taking care to leave a little space between each, and set in a warm place. When well risen, glaze the tops with egg, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes, dusting a little caster sugar over them when done. Hot Cross Buns.—(1) Warm lqt. of new milk, add to it lib. of flour, lib. of sugar, and two eggs, and dissolve in it 2oz. of German yeast; stir all together, cover the pan, and set in a warm temperature to sponge. When it has risen with a good cauliflower top and again fallen, mix with it 41b. of flour in which has been rubbed 12oz. of butter, lib. more sugar, loz. of mixed spice, and use more flour if it is wanted to make a stiff dough; then sot in a warm place with a cloth covered over it to rise again. When tho dough has risen to nearly double its original size, shape it into small balls with the hands, and put these on buttered baking- tins, leaving a little space between each to prevent them joining. Set to prove for a little time, and then cut across the top in the shape of a cross, brush over with a little milk, finish proving, and bake in a hot oven. When done, brush the tops again with milk. See Fig. 226. (2) Dissolve loz. of German yeast in l pint of warm milk ; add to this 2oz. of butter, loz. of baking-powder, and mix with lib. of flour; add two eggs, 2oz. of caster sugar, loz. each of cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, ginger, and coriander- seed, woi-k well together, put it in a pan, cover with a cloth, and set in a warm place to rise. In about half-an-hour, break (see Biscuits) tho dough on a slab with flour, divide into nine or ton parts, and shape into balls with tho hands floured; butter a baking-shoot, press them lightly upon this, brush the tops with egg, cross them, and bake in a hot oven. Jubilee Buns.—Bub 12oz. of butter in with 21b. of sifted flour, form a cavity in tho centre, add 12oz. of sugar, loz. of voil pounded in a little milk, four oggs, and sufficient milk to make a dough. Out of every pound of the dough form six Buns, brush tho tops with egg, sprinkle over a few currants, dust them over with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Lig'ht Tea Buns.—Put in a bowl lib. of flour, l teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and l teaspoonful of tartaric acid, and pass all through a sieve; rub in 2oz. of butter until quite absorbed, add 2oz. of caster sugar, lib. of currants well washed and dried, and 1 tcaspoonful of caraway-seeds. Beat one egg in l pint of milk, and mix tho flour into it with a knife. Butter some baking-tins, place the dough on it in small nuggets, and bake in a hot oven. London Buns.—Pour into a basin 2 breakfast-cupfuls of warmed milk, mix in 2oz. of yeast, lib. of moist sugar, and sufficient flour to form a stiff dough. When well mixed, work in 12oz. of butter and a littlo salt; then add two eggs and a littlo lemon-juice or essence, and set the dough to prove ; brush it over with egg when about half proved, and Buns—continued. dust over with sugar when fully proved. Form into Buns, bake in a moderate oven, and use as required. Madeira Buns.—Bub 5oz. of butter into lib. of flour, add the gratod rind of half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger, 2oz. of caster sugar, loz. of caraway-seeds, 1 pinch of salt, and a little nutmeg; mix together with l wineglassful of sherry and two well-beaten eggs. Butter some patty-pans, fill with the mixture, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour in a quick oven. See Fig. 227. Plum Buns.—Bub fib. of butter in 31b. of flour, and add 1 pinch of salt; make a hole in tho centre and pour in gradually f pint of warm water with loz. of German yeast dissolved in it; mix together, and put it in a warm place to sponge. In an hour’s time whisk two fresh eggs with fib. of moist sugar, stir them into the yeast with 1 pint of warm milk, knead tho dough, cover, and let it stand until it is lightly risen. In an-liour-and-a-half mix with it lib. of washed and dried currants, shape tho dough into Buns of an equal size, put these on buttered baking-tins, leaving a little space between, let them rise for about ten minutes in a warm place, and bake in a hot oven. Rum Buns.—Sift lib. of flour on a board. Take one-third of it, make a hollow in its centre, and put into it 2 drachms of compressed yeast and l gill of warm water. When the yeast is dissolved, mix well for one minute, put it into a bowl, cover with a cloth, and let it riso in a warm place until twice the original size. Take the rest of the flour, make a hollow in the centre, and put into it 2oz. of sugar, three eggs, and six drops of orange-flower water. Knead" well together, slowly incorporating the flour; gradually add loz. of butter and tho prepared yeast dough. Mix all together for five minutes, return to tho bowl, and again lay it aside to rise once more. Butter well six round cake-moulds, fill them about three-quarters high with tho dough, lot it rise until they aro full, then lay them on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When well browned, turn them out,- place them on a pastry-grid, and pour over them a sauce made thus : Put fib. of sugar in a saucepan with l pint of water, adding half a sliced lemon; when boiling, take from tho fire, pour in l gill of rum, and pour it over the Buns. Dress on a dish, and serve. Saffron Buns.—Mix together lqt. of warm milk (rather warmer in cold than in hot weather), lib. of flour, lib. of sugar, 2oz. of German yeast, and two eggs; cover the basin with a cloth, and set in a warm temperature to rise. Let it sponge up and go nearly flat again, and then add lib. more sugar, loz. of mixed spice, loz. of caraway-seeds, 41b. of flour, and 12oz. of butter, which has to be rubbed well into the flour. Colour with a littlo tincture of saffron. When all is well worked together, and a soft dough is formed, cover it, and put in a warm place until the dough has risen some inches. Divido the dough into equal parts, mould with tho hands into balls, and place those on buttered baking-tins which are just warm, leaving a little space between each to prevent them sticking to one another. Glaze the tops over with milk when half proved, finish proving, and bake in a hot oven. When taken from the oven, brush a little more milk over the tops. Spanish Buns.—(1) Bub lib. of butter into lib. of flour, and mix with it 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 pinch of salt, a little grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon, and make into a dough with four woll-beaten eggs. Flour a baking-sheet, drop tho mixture on it in small quantities with z 2