THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 169 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Bottling—continued. retain the gas whilst a cork end was compressed, fitted to the month of the bottle, and driven home. The invention of aerated water bottles fitted with glass ball stoppers has created quite a revolution in the practice, and the latest and most effectual bottler fills the bottles upside down, so that when the stream of fluid is turned off, the marbles or glass balls fall on to the indiarubber collars prepared to receive them. The syphon bottle has been well received, because it admits of the con- sumer drawing off as much as may be required for immediate use without deteriorating to any considerable extent that which remains in the bottle, and this is filled by a machine especially devised for the purpose. Bottling ales has long been regarded as a special branch of the trade, but was at one time very much practised in private houses, when the simple process employed by the housewife frequently produced better and more satisfactory results than have been attained by the most expert. This might be due to accident, but the probability is that it was due to the great cleanliness exercised in the domestic bottling. An authority (Spon) believes that “the change effected in beer by storing it in close vessels appears to be due to an insensible fer- mentation which goes on for a considerable time, resulting in the impregnation of the liquor with car- bonic-acid gas.” Dr. Ure boldly states that “ the quality of the beer never remains stationary when in the store vats, and that from the moment it ceases to improve, it begins to deteriorate by acetic fermentation.” These opinions are not based upon experiment, but are mere haphazard observations, for it is an ascertained fact that after beers are bottled they undergo a fermentation which is by no means either insensible or deteriorative. Dr. Graham maintains that living yeast cells floating about in the beer when it is drawn into bottles set up the fermentation in the bottles, which results in the impregnation with carbonic-acid gas, and further pro- poses that the beer should be run from the store cask, and corked with a cork that has been saturated with paraffin wax, by which means the cork is rendered impervious. “ The next process is to destroy the ferment in the ale itself, because, however bright the ale may be, there are always floating on it minute yeast cells.” But how these yeast cells floating on the beer happen to be drawn off into the bottles from the lower part of the cask is not explained, and therefore it is within the bounds of possibility that neither brewers nor chemists have yet succeeded in tracing bottle fermentation to its correct source. Dr. Graham further observes: “If the ale were placed in a bottle and heated to a sufficient temperature to destroy these yeast cells, ale that did not contain sufficient carbonic acid would be unpleasant to drink, because it would not effervesce. It is necessary, therefore, for the bottler to charge each bottle with carbonic-acid gas; and this may be done by merely allowing the bottles to remain until there is produced in the ale enough carbonic acid by subsequent fermen- tation, a process occupying two or three weeks. When the ale has thus obtained sufficient carbonic acid, it must be heated to about 140deg. Fahr. (60deg. Cent.); but if the bottler be pressed for time, and the ale is very flat and is required for immediate export, carbonic acid may be forced into the ale by an ordinary carbonic- acid apparatus, and the bottles afterwards heated.” Cider is frequently bottled at home by merely draw- ing off from the cask into scrupulously clean bottles and standing upright in a warm place for a day or two, and then removing to an ordinary wine cellar. Before bottling, it is usual to add small quantities of brandy, and colouring of burnt sugar; or perhaps a little infu- sion of hops may be considered advantageous to the flavour; but in any case it is well to let cider remain in the cask for quite twelve months before attempting to draw into bottles. By that time it has fairly proved Bottling—continued. itself, and will then stand in bottle for many years if thoroughly corked. As to the bottling of wine, there is no secret in it beyond that of scrupulous cleanliness and the use of good corks. But we are told that experience shows us that “ wines bottled in fine, dry weather preserve their clearness and liquidity much better than those bottled in damp weather, or in a southerly wind.” Care must be taken that the wine is quite bright, and the cask must not be shaken. The corks should be well squeezed and driven home with a bat, and then cut off level with the neck of the bottle and waxed over with bottling-wax. Store away in a cool cellar, and let the bottles lie down on clean sand or sawdust. To make light wines sparkle when uncorked, it is usual to add a few grains of loaf sugar, as the vintners do with French champagnes, and tie the corks down. See Cellaring, Fermentation, &c. When bottling fruits, take care to have them fresh picked, morning gathered, not over-ripe, but dry and sound; and see also that the bottles are not only clean, but free from cracks, and with well-fitting corks. Pack the fruit in the bottle carefully without wounding, and fill up to the top with weak syrup. Place each filled bottle in an upright position upon a grating in a stock-pot or other large vessel, pour in sufficient cold water to reach rather better than half-way up the sides of the bottles, cover these over with a wet cloth, put on the lid of the vessel containing the bottles, and heat up on a gas-stove. Have your corks floating in sweetened tepid water, and when the contents of the bottles have boiled up for a few minutes, according to the fruit, grasp each bottle round the neck with a cloth, and force in the cork. Set on a board or table to cool, and cover the corks with wax, or tie down with wet bladder. Cement for Sealing Corks of Bottles or Jars for long keeping.—With 3oz. of powdered resin mix loz. of powdered caustic (washing-) soda, and stir that up with ^ pint of water. Have ready corked the jars or bottles to be stopped, cut the corks level with the rims, and then stir into the mixture 4oz. or 5oz. of plaster of Paris (gypsum) to make a stiff paste, and spread over the corks and bottle-tops with a broad knife. This will set hard and firm in less than an hour, and is absolutely impermeable. For goods bottled for export, nothing can be more protective. Gum for Adhesive Labels.—Soak for twenty-four hours lib. of glue and 3oz. of gum arabic in sufficient cold water to cover them, and then dissolve this in lqt. of water heated gently for the purpose, stir in a table-spoonful or two of sugar, and put in a bottle ready for use. Brush the labels over with this and let them dry. When used, lick or damp the gummed surface. Wax for Bottling.—Put lib. of common resin into a mortar, pound it well, put it into an old saucepan or tin, and add 4oz. of shred beeswax and the same of tallow. Put the saucepan on a slow fire, and as soon as the ingredients are melted, boil for five or six minutes, stirring frequently, and the wax is then ready for use. It must be made hot before being used. _ B0UCHEES.—This is the name given to numerous little specimens of tasty cookery, such as patties, savoury or sweet, which are great favourites for suppers and light refections. The term is French, and signifies a mouthful. They may be served either hot or cold. Bouchees a l’Astor.—Butter and flour a baking-sheet. Put into a pastry-bag a small quantity of the paste used for Lady’s Finger Biscuits, and drop it on to the baking- sheet into bean-shaped pieces Din. long by Jin. wide; sprinkle these lightly with powdered sugar, and place them in a brisk oven to bake for twelve minutes. Take them out and let them cool for fifteen minutes, then put them upside- down on a table, and in the middle of each one cut a hole lin. long by tin. wide. Fill the holes with apricot marmalade, then arrange them two by two, so as to enclose the mar- malade, and make up the perfect shape of beans. Ice them over smoothly by dipping them separately into sugar icing,