112 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. Place them on a hot dish, pour Bordeaux sauce over them, garnish with rounds of marrow, and serve very hot. Broiled Porterhouse-steaks—(1) Trim the steaks so as to leave about 3in. of the thin flank attached, chop or saw off a part of the back bone, to give them a neat appearance, and notch round the edges of the steaks to prevent them curling when being cooked. Brush them over with warmed butter, put them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, and broil for about ten minutes, or until they are cooked as required. Put them on a dish, garnish with fried potatoes, and serve. (2) Procure two porterhouse-steaks of lflb. each, cutting them from the short loin ; flatten them well with a cutlet- bat, pare and trim them, and season with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper. Put them on a dish with J table- spoonful of oil; roll them well in it, put them over a mode- rate fire on a broiler, and broil for seven minutes on each side. Lay them on a warm dish, pour over 1 gill of maitre- d’hotel butter, and serve with a little watercress around the dish for garnish. Broiled Ribs of Beef witli Marrow.—Cut off the required number of slices of meat from ribs of Beef, trim them to a good shape, brush them over with olive oil, and dust with salt and pepper. Put them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them; take them off when done, and arrange them on a dish. In the meantime, blanch some Beef-marrow, cut it up into slices, dip each one separately into warmed glaze, brown them with a salamander, place them on the slices of meat, pour Bordeaux sauce over, and serve. Broiled Rib-steak.—Cut a steak Jin. thick from between two ribs, remove all gristle and fat, trim it to a flat pear shape, sprinkle it over on both sides with salt and pepper, and oil it to prevent the outside hardening. Broil twelve minutes over a moderate and even fire. Put 4oz. of maitre- d’hotel butter on a dish, lay the steak on it, and garnish with fried (chip) potatoes. Either piquant, Italian, or tomato sauce may be served with this steak. Broiled Rib-steak a la Bordelaise.—Cut out the bone from a rib of Beef, and divide the meat into two steaks, trimming them into shape. Put them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, broil them for about ten minutes, take them off when done, put them on a dish, cover them over with Beef- marrow, blanched and heated in the oven, pour round some Bordeaux sauce, and serve. Broiled Rump-steak.—Take a prime rump-steak (Fig. 129), wipe, trim off the superfluous fat, and remove the bone if there be any. Grease the gridiron with some of the fat. Fig. 130. Beef-steak Tongs. Broil over a clear fire, turning every ten seconds with tongs (Pig. 130). Cook three or four minutes if liked rare; longer if well done. Serve on a hot plate. Season with butter, salt, and pepper ; or serve with maitre-d’hotel butter. Broiled Rump-steaks served with Marrow. — Saw a marrow-bone into two or three pieces, and let them soak ; put Beef—continued. them into a stewpan with some broth, and boil them on a slow fire for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Cut some rump-steaks about Jin. thick, trim them nicely, and round them (Fig. 131), leaving a little fat on the side. Beat them a little, season with salt and pepper, roll them in warm butter or in oil, and range them side by side on a gridiron. Let them broil for ten or twelve minutes, turning them frequently with the tongs. Take them off when the meat offers a slight resist- ance if pressed with the tongs; dish them, place between each a proportion of cooked Beef-marrow, seasoned with a little cayenne pepper, and glazed with the paste-brush; also glaze the steaks, but serve them without gravy. They may be garnished with potatoes or watercress. The marrow is prepared by cutting the bones into lengths, and boiling in a thin broth for three-quarters-of an-hour. Prepared in the Chateaubriand style, the steaks are slit to form a pocket, and the marrow is cooked inside. Broiled Sirloin-steak.—(1) Cut a steak about Jin. thick and weighing about lib. from the thick end of a sirloin of Beef, place it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until done. Put it on a dish, with a little warmed butter poured over it, and serve. (2) Arrange two broiled sirloin-steaks on a hot dish. Cut six medium-sized cepes into quarter pieces, put them in a frying-pan with 1 table-spoonful of oil, and fry for two minutes with a finely-chopped shallot and a crushed quarter of a clove of garlic. Add to these J pint of Madeira sauce, and boil for two minutes longer; pour this sauce over the steaks, garnish with chopped parsley, and serve. (3) Broil two sirloin-steaks; then take J pint of Madeira sauce, and add to it a few drops of tarragon vinegar, also the blanched marrow of one marrow-bone cut in round slices. Boil up, and pour the sauce over the steaks; serve very hot. (4) Broil two sirloin-steaks, and serve surrounded with cooked potatoes and maitre-d’hotel butter. (5) Arrange two broiled sirloin-steaks on a hot dish, and pour over them a sauce made as follows : Empty three green peppers of their seeds, mince them very finely, put them into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of oil, and cook for about three minutes, moistening with J pint of Madeira sauce; warm up for five minutes longer, pour the sauce over the steaks, and serve. (6) Broil two or more sirloin-steaks ; when cooked, pour over them bdarnaise sauce, and serve. Broiled Steak. — (1) Mix together thoroughly loz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and J teaspoonful of lemon- juice. Bub this over the steak after it is broiled and dished on a hot plate, and serve immediately. Fresh butter alone should be used. Tomato or oyster sauce is sometimes served with a broiled steak. (2) The plate may be covered with anchovy butter, and the steak laid upon it. Cannelon of Beef.—Chop 21b. or 31b. of lean Beef very fine, and mix it up with half the quantity of bacon or ham that has been well pounded in a mortar; add the thin rind of a lemon and a small bunch of sweet herbs, also finely chopped; sprinkle the mixture with grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste, binding the whole together with the yolks of two or three eggs. Shape the mixture into a long roll, tie or wrap it round with buttered paper, put it into a baking- pan in a moderately hot oven, and bake for an hour or so. Take it out when done, remove the paper, place it on a dish,