178 • THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <t-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Brawn—continued. (3) Cut out the tongue of a pig’s head, remove the brains, put them with the remainder of the head into a bowl with salt at the bottom, and cover them well over with more of it, taking especial care to see that the eye-holes and ears are well covered. Let them remain in this for three days, changing the salt daily, and the last day adding 1 table-spoonful each of allspice, black pepper, and saltpetre finely crushed. Leave them in this pickle for four days longer, turning the head frequently. Take them all out, tie the brains in a muslin bag, put the head and tongue into a saucepan of water, and boil until they are tender and quite done. Cut off all the meat from the head, skin the tongue, and chop both of them up into moderately small pieces ; then add the brains (which must be boiled separately for half-an-hour only, breaking them up with a spoon and mixing them in), and sprinkle over a little more black pepper, ground allspice, and a little salt. The tongue should'not be cut up into quite as small pieces as the head and ears. Put the mixture into a collaring-tin or Brawn-mould, place a weight on the top, and let it remain for a day or so until quite cold and firm, when it is ready for use. If a Brawn-press (Fig. 188) is used the meat is much firmer, and the process simpler. (4) Put a pig’s head weighing about 71b. into a bowl of water, and thoroughly clean and wash it. Take it out, put it into a saucepan with about lflb. of lean beef, pour over sufficient water to cover those, set the pan on the fire, and boil gently for from two-and-a-half to three hours, skimming frequently. Take them out, remove all the bones from the head, put the meat on a dish in front of a clear fire, and let it dry, keeping it from getting cold. Mince the meat up as quickly as possible, sprinkle over it four pounded cloves, and cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste. When these are thoroughly mixed, put them into a collaring-tin or Brawn- mould, place a weight on the top, and let the Brawn stand for six hours, or until it is set and perfectly cold. Turn the Brawn out < n to a dish, and it is ready for use. This should be served wrapped in an ornamental paper. Brawn in Jelly.—Cut off the ears of a pig from below the root, take out the tongue, and chop off the four feet. Put these, with any other small pieces of pork that are handy, into a bowl of salted water, and let them remain for ten or twelve hours ; then take them all out and clean them. Put them into a saucepan with only a little water, so that the meat shall not stick to the pan, set the pan on the fire, and boil gently for three hours. Take them out, remove the bones from the feet, cut the ears into narrow strips and the tongue into slices, sprinkle them well over with salt, pepper, and ground allspice, return them to the saucepan containing- the liquor in which they were boiled, and cook for an hour- longer. A few minutes before the Brawn is cooked, add to the pan a small quantity of parsley, scalded and minced, and one carrot cut into cubes or small pieces. Put the whole into a mould, lot it get firm and set, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. The juice will form a bright stiff jelly. Mock Brawn.—(1) Clean four or five large cow-heels, boil till the meat is falling from the bone and very tender, then cut the meat into long strips, and stew them in a little stock. Chop a handful of capers, not quite as many pickled gherkins, mix with 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar, and stir in with the heels. Let it simmer down, then pour it all into a mould, and leave until cold. (2) Thoroughly clean and scald a sheep’s head in salt and water for five minutes, then put it into fresh water with lib. of pickled pork, and boil until well done. Carefully remove the meat from the head, chop it up with the pork, brains, and tongue, and season with black pepper, allspice, and salt to taste. Put it into a collaring-tin with a weight on the top, and allow it to stand for a day to set firm. (3) Skin and clean a sheep’s head, put it into a saucepan of salted water, and boil it gently for about five minutes. Take it out, put it into another saucepan of water with lib. of pickled pork, set the pan on the fire, and boil until they are both done and tender. Take them out, drain them, and remove all the meat from the bones. Chop up the meat and pork, add the brains and tongues, both boiled separately, and the tongue skinned and cut into rather large pieces, Brawn—continued. adding a little seasoning of black pepper and allspice. Put the Brawn into a Brawn-mould or collaring-tin, put a weight on the top, and when it is cold and firm, turn it out, when it is ready for use. (4) Clean the feet, ears, and two hocks of a pig, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil them until they are quite tender. Take them out, drain them, remove all the bones and skin, and put the meat on a plate or dish. Arrange the skin at the bottom and round the sides of an oval-shaped pan, cut the meat up into small pieces, and put these in ; then place a weight on the top of the Brawn, and let it remain for a couple of days or so. Take it out of the pan without breaking it, wrap it round with broad pieces of tape or calico, put it into a bowl of salted water, and keep it there for throe days, changing the water frequently. Take it out, drain it, remove the binding, and it is ready for use. Scrappel, or American Brawn.—This is prepared the same way as Brawn in Jelly, with a little sage and more seasoning added. As soon as the liquor boils, after the Brawn is cooked, add enough cornflour to make it quite thick, and stir over the fire for ten minutes. (The carrot and parsley should be omitted from this.) Turn the Brawn out on to a dish, smooth it over with a spatula or knife, let it get quite cold, and then cut it up into slices. Put these in a frying-pan with a very small quantity of butter or fat, and fry them to a light brown. Take them out when done, arrange them on a napkin folded over a dish, and serve. Sussex Brawn.—Cut off the ears from a pig’s head, remove the brains, clean the head well, chop it in halves, dust over with salt, and drain. In the meantime, prepare the feet and the ears of the pig. Bub into all l|oz. of saltpetre mixed up with 6oz. of sugar, let them remain for a few hours, and then rub in 6oz. of salt. Let them remain in this for about a day, then pour over 1 teacupful of vinegar, and let them stand for a week, turning them daily. Wash all the parts, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil until the bones can be easily removed. Take them out, bone them, keeping the halves of head in shape as nearly as possible, put the latter on a board, one half on top of the other, cut off a little of the moat from the thickest part, put it on the thin part, and flatten the whole until it is of equal thickness. Sprinkle over a seasoning of ground cloves, mace, nutmeg, cayenne, and salt, intermix the cars, tongue, and feet, place them over, and roll the whole into a long shape. Tie it round tightly, fasten it up in a cloth, sewing up the ends, place it in a saucepan with a few onions and carrots, a head of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, a good supply of black pepper, and sufficient water to cover them. Place the saucepan on the fire, boil for about four hours, and let the roll cool in Ihe liquor. Take it out, remove the cloth, put it between two boards, with a weight on the top, and let it remain for a day or so ; then put it on a dish, and serve. Yorkshire Brawn. - After having cleaned a pig’s head, cut it up, and put it with the ears into a saucepan; cover with water, add pepper and chopped sage to taste, and 1 table- spoonful of salt. Let the water simmer gently till the meat leaves the bones, then chop it up and put it in a basin. Beduce the liquor which the meat was boiled in to half its original quantity, pour it over the meat, stir well, and put into moulds or collaring-tins. BRAZIL NUTS.— The fruit of the Bertholletia excelsa, a native tree of Brazil, that sometimes reaches 100ft. or 120ft. in height. They are sometimes called “chestnuts of Brazil,” Juvia, or Castanha nuts, and reach us chiefly from the shores of Para. Brazil Nuts are much esteemed for their delicate flavour, being not unlike our hazel-nut in taste. The kernels yield a large quantity of oil—not less than 9oz. to lib. of nuts. BREAD (Fr. Pain; Ger. Brod; Ital. Pane; Sp. Pan). —The English term is said to be derived from “to bray” or grind to powder, brod, or brayed; but when the conversion of brayed meal into Bread first originated, it is only possible to guess, so far back into the dark regions of man’s existence does it extend. It was probably “ Necessity,” the “ gaunt mother of Invention,”