34 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Saucest &c-- referred to, see under their special heads. Apples—continued. shown in Fig. 34, b. Channel along the top ornamentally with the point of a small knife. Egg over slightly, and bake on a greased baking-sheet in a slack oven; but before they are Fig. 34. Ornamental Apple Puff. quite done withdraw them, and sprinkle them over with fine sugar for a glaze, and then let them finish baking. A most effective supper or lunch dish. (2) Boll out some puff paste to a thin sheet, and cut into 3 Jin. squares. Put some Apple Jam or sugary marmalade in the centre, and fold over to make a three-cornered puff. Pinch the edges together as ornamentally as you please. Brush over the tops, after placing on the greased baking sheet, with egg and water, and sprinkle granulated sugar over them. This will glaze them. Bake in a moderately slack oven. Some cooks use finely-minced Apples, with clove, cinnamon, or lemon flavouring. Apple and Quince Tart.—Pare and core eight or ten good cooking Apples, cut in slices, and arrange at the bottom of a pie-dish. Cut a quince into slices, put it in a saucepan with a little water, and add 3oz. of sugar and loz. of butter. Set the saucepan on the fire and stew the quince until it is quite tender; then put it on top of the Apples in the pie-dish, add sufficient sugar to sweeten the whole, and grate over the rind of a lemon. Put a thin strip of rich puff paste round the edge of the dish, damp it, and cover the tart over with a flat of the paste, securing it all round at the edge. Decorate the cover with leaves, &c., in paste, brush the whole over with egg, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for from forty-five minutes to an hour, according to the size of the tart and the heat of the oven. Take it out when done, and serve. Apple Roly-poly.—Pare and core a few Apples, cut them into rings or slices, and put on a flat round of suet crust rolled out very thin; sprinkle over sufficient moist sugar to sweeten, and flavour with ground cinnamon or finely-grated rind of lemon. Boll the crust over, fasten the edge and ends by damping and squeezing with the finger and thumb, tie it up in a well-floured cloth, put into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour-and-a-half. Then turn it out on to a dish, sprinkle over a little caster sugar, and serve. Apple Sandwich.—Mix | breakfast-cupful of sugar and \ salt-spoonful of cinnamon, or the grated rind of half a lemon. Melt 2 breakfast-cupful of butter, and stir it into 1 pint of soft breadcrumbs. Pare, core, and slice Apples to fill 3 pints. Butter a pie-dish, put in a thick layer of crumbs, then sliced Apples, and sprinkle with the prepared sugar. Bepeat this order of layers until the materials are all used up, finishing off with a thick layer of crumbs at the top. A squeeze of lemon-juice over the Apples adds to the flavour. Bake in a slow oven. Apple Sauce.—(1) A few good “ falling ” Apples should be pared and sliced into a saucepan. Pour in sufficient water to just cover the Apples, and stew with a lid on until quite done—about half-an-hour. Whilst they are stewing, throw in a bit of butter, and mash all up with a silver fork or spoon. Do not add any sugar. (2) Other cooks add a little sugar (to tart Apples), a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a little grated nutmeg. (3) Ude advises cooks to stew the Apples with a little brown sugar. Beat up with a wooden spoon, add a little butter, and serve for goose and roast pork. (4) Delamere recommends boiling the Apples in cider, flavouring with cloves and mace, and mashing up with a little fine sugar. Apples—continued. Apple Shape.—Pare and core 21b. or more of firm, green Apples, plunge them into a basin of cold water for a few minutes to preserve their colour, take them out, drain, and put into a copper saucepan, with only just sufficient water to prevent them burning or sticking to the saucepan. Boil until they are quite. tender, then pass them through a fine sieve back into the saucepan, and add 12oz. of crushed loaf sugar to every pound of fruit. Place the pan back on to the fire, and boil quickly, stirring frequently until quite done. Then turn it into a mould, and when perfectly cold and firm turn on to a dish, and serve. Apple Shortcake.— Put 6oz. of butter or lard into a basin, warm it, and rub it into 9oz. of dried and sifted flour, adding 1 teacupful of iced water to make it into a paste. Put this on to a floured board, roll it, and fold six times; then roll it out thin, and cover over two jelly cake-tins with it. Trim round the edges, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Turn out of the tins, spread a thick layer of Apple Cream on one, cover it over with the other, mask it with crushed loaf sugar, wet it with water, and put the shortcake into the oven or hot closet to dry. Take it out, and serve. Apple Snow.—Stew or steam a dozen large tart Apples, cored and quartered ; drain, and rub through a hair sieve. Beat up the whites of a dozen eggs until stiff; add lib. of powdered white sugar, and beat again; add the Apple, and beat all together until like snow. Pile lightly on a glass dish, and garnish with coloured jellies or holly leaves. This eats nice with well-flavoured custard or sweetened cream. Apple Snow with Sponge Cakes —Take four or five stale sponge cakes, cut them up into slices, arrange these on a dish, damp them with maraschino or light wine, and pour over them i pint of rich custard or whipped cream. Next take twelve good-sized Apples, bake until they open and are quite soft, remove the cores and rind, and weigh the remainder. About fifteen minutes before this is wanted, take |lb. of it, and beat it up with the juice of a lemon, adding sufficient caster sugar to sweeten; add the whites of two eggs, well whisked, and continue whisking the mixture until it has the appearance of white snow. Heap this on the custard, and garnish with dried cherries and diamonds of angelica. A wonderfully pretty and tasty dish for a ball buffet. Apple Snowballs.—Boil a sufficient quantity of rice until tender. Soak some small pudding-cloths—say about 1ft. square—in hot water, wring, and lay them over small bowls or large cups. Spread the rice with a spoon about -jin. thick over the cloth, and set an Apple in each. (These Apples should be cored, pared, and the core-hole stuffed with flavoured and well-sweetened rice.) Tie up tightly in the cloths, and put in hot water to boil for half-an-hour. Serve with butter and Fig. 35. Apple Snowballs, or Apples in Rice. sugar, sweet sauce, or some kind of marmalade. See Fig. 35. Apricots are very nice in these instead of Apples. Apple Soup.—This is a favourite dish amongst the Germans. Pare, core, and coarsely mince some good cooking Apples; boil them to a mash in sufficient water to cover them, with grated breadcrumbs of an equal amount to the Apples, lemon-peel and lemon-juice, and cinnamon, cardamoms, or other aromatic spice to taste. When cooked to a pulp, rub the whole through a sieve; add white wine, warm up in a stewpan, and sweeten. Serve hot with sippets of toasted bread. Apple Souffle.—(1) The word Souffle has come, by erratic use, to be applied to a great number of light dishes which have very little resemblance to, and no possible culinary connec- tion with, each other. That which we are now describing consists of a raised border of dry stewed Apples, with the