114 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Beef—continued. will float an egg, to which add 1,1b. of saltpetre and 31b. of brown sugar. Transfer the Beef to this barrel, coyer closely, and let it remain a week. Put a weight on the meat to ensure its being kept under the brine. Beef thus prepared in January will keep well through to the month of March, improving with the lapse of time. It is best served cold. (4) The following is known as “ Pocock’s pickle”: Put 4galls. of water, 1 ilb. of molasses or foot sugar, 2oz. of salt- petre, and 71b. of common salt, into a boiler; take off the scum as it rises, and when well boiled let it remain to get cold. Put sufficient of this pickle over the meat to cover it, and keep it under the brine by pressing down with a board upon which are bricks or any other kind of weight except iron. The same pickle may be used over and over again by re- boiling and adding a small quantity more of each ingredient. (5) Take about 81b. of salted brisket or flank of Beef, and soak it for several hours, washing off as much of the brine as possible. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil gently for six hours; let it remain to cool in the liquor for two or three hours, then take it out, drain it, and remove all the bones. Put it into a tin shape, with a heavy weight on the top, and when it is quite cold take it out, and it is ready for use. Corned Beef as Cooked and Served in America.—Soak 41b. of corned Beef and put it on to boil in fresh cold water; skim and simmer until tender, but not long enough for it to fall to pieces. Let it cool in the liquor in which it was boiled, and then before cold put it into a flat hollow dish, cover with a hoard, and press with a heavy weight. Bemove all the fat from the meat liquor and save it, but do not let it stand in an iron kettle or tin pan. Have two or three beets ready boiled, and cover them with vinegar. The next day, after boiling and pressing the meat, prepare the vegetables (a small cabbage, two small carrots, one small turnip, six or eight potatoes, and a small crooked-neck squash) ; wash them all, scrape the carrots, and cut the cabbage into quarters; pare the turnip and squash, cutting them into Jin. slices, and pare the potatoes. Put the meat-liquor on to boil about two hours before dinner-time; when boiling, put in the carrots, afterwards the cabbage and turnips, and half- an-hour before dinner add the squash and potatoes. When tender, take the vegetables up carefully and drain the water from the cabbage by pressing it in a colander. Slice the carrots. Put the cold meat in the centre of a large dish, and serve the carrots, potatoes, and turnips round the edge, with the squash, cabbage, and pickled beets in separate dishes; or serve each vegetable in a dish by itself. This may be all done the same day if the meat be put on to boil very early and removed as soon as tender, the fat taken off, and the vegetables added to the boiling meat-liquor, beginning with those which require the longest time to cook. This will depend very much upon their freshness. But whichever way the dish is prepared, boil the beets alone, remove the meat and fat before adding the vegetables, and serve each as whole and daintily as possible. Corned Bound of Beef Plain-Boiled. — Wash the meat, sew it in a coarse towel, put in cold water, and boil six or eight hours. Do not remove the towel until next day. This is improved by putting the meat in a mould and giving it a good shape. When perfectly cold, trim nicely, and carve it across the grain. Curing Beef for Drying. — This method keeps the meat moist, so that it has none of that toughness dried Beef mostly has when a little old. To every 281b. or 301b., allow 1 table- spoonful of saltpetre and lqt. of fine salt, mixed with molasses or dark brown sugar until the colour is light brown; rub the pieces of meat with the mixture, and when well worked in, let all stick to it that will. Pack in a keg or half-barrel, that the pickle may cover the meat, and let it remain forty- eight hours; at the end of that time enough pickle will be formed to cover it. Take it out and hang in a suitable place for drying. Allow all the mixture to adhere to the meat that will. Curried Beef.—(1) Cut l^lb. of Beef into small pieces, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and brown them; add two onions cut up small, brown them also, and turn them all into a saucepan. Add 3 table-spoonfuls of curry-powder, a table-spoonful of curry-paste, and a small lump of butter For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Beef—continued. rolled in flour; pour over a little gravy, and cook gently for about an hour-and-a-half. Turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve with boiled rice round the dish or separate. (2) Put one or two small onions, cut up in slices, into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and brown them; then add 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir well for a few minutes; put in lib. of lean Beef cut up into small squares, and cook for a few minutes longer. Mix 1 table-spoonful of curry-powder in 1 breakfast-cupful of water, weak stock or gravy, boil it for half-an-hour, strain it into the saucepan containing the meat, and cook gently for about an hour-and-a-half. Sprinkle in 1 saltspoonful of salt, and add a small quantity of vinegar or walnut ketchup, to give it an acidulated flavour. When done, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with a border of well-boiled rice. (3) Chop up two small onions, brown them in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, add 1 table-spoonful of curry-powder, and stir it well in. Cook for a few minutes, then add ljlb. of Beef cut up into small pieces, pour over about J break- fast-cupful of milk, simmer gently on the side of the fire for about thirty minutes, and add a quarter of a cocoa-nut cut up very fine and rubbed through a fine sieve. Bemove the saucepan from the fire, add the juice of a lemon, turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve with a border of boiled rice. (4) Portuguese Style.—Cut 21b. of the primest fat Beef into large squares, put these into a basin with 1 teacupful of vinegar, and mix in ^ teaspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful each of bruised garlic, ground garlic, and ground ginger, 2 teaspoonfuls of ground chillies, 1 teaspoonful of roasted and ground coriander-seed, half that quantity of roasted and ground cumin-seed, four or five roasted and ground cloves and cardamoms, and six small sticks of cinnamon, also roasted and ground. Let the Beef steep in this for eighteen or twenty four hours; then turn the whole into a frying-pan with 6oz. of hot mustard-oil, fat, or lard, add a few pepper- corns and two or three bay-leaves, and cook gently over a slow fire for about two hours, or until the meat is tender. Turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Mustard-oil, if obtainable, should be used in preference to fat or lard. Curried Beef Forcemeat Balls.—Cut into small pieces about 21b. of fat Beef (rejecting the veins or other uneatable parts), put these into a mortar, pound them well, and mix in 1 tea- spoonful each of salt, pepper, and finely-chopped sweet herbs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs. Pour in a little Beef-broth, or milk, to give the preparation the required consistence, then add a well-beaten egg, and form the mixture into balls, rolling them into more breadcrumbs. Warm a frying-pan, put in 3oz. or 4oz. of fat, make it hot, add 1 table- spoonful of ground onions, J table-spoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, | teaspoonful each of ground pepper- corns and green ginger, and j teaspoonful of ground garlic ; make them quite hot and brown, sprinkling over 1 table- spoonful of cold water, put in the forcemeat balls, sprinkle over salt to taste, fry them until they are brown, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of Beef-broth or water, and simmer gently over a slow fire for about two hours. Turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve at once. Ground hot spices may be added to the other curry ingredients, if desired. Devilled Beef.—Cut some rather thick slices of Beef from the end of a cold boiled or braised rump of Beef, trim them without removing any of the fat, sprinkle over with salt, and roll them well in oil mixed up with mustard and pepper to taste, but the latter in predominance; cover the slices with grated breadcrumbs, put them on a warm gridiron over a slow but clear fire, and cook them. Baste frequently with more oil, using a bunch of parsley as a paste-brush to baste. When they are quite warm, and have obtained a slight colour, put them on a dish, pour round a little rich gravy, and serve. Dutch. Beef.—Bub the lean part of a buttock of Beef with moist sugar, put it into a pan, and leave it there for two or three hours, rubbing it constantly with the sugar ; then rub it well with a mixture of (lb. of bay-salt, 2oz. each of sal prunella and saltpetre, 1 teacupful of finely-bruised juniper-berries, and lib. of common salt. Let it remain in this for a fortnight, turning it and rubbing it frequently Sauces, dec., re/erred to, see under their special heads.