TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 142 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Ssc~ referred, to, see under their special heads. Biscuits—continued. (2) Rub lib. of butter into 51b. of granulated wheat-meal, and mis in 4oz. each of sugar and ground arrowroot, \oz of bicarbonate of soda, and four eggs. Make a cavity in the centre, pour in lqt. of milk, and proceed as for No. 1. Drop Biscuits.—Break eight eggs into a round-bottomed pan, and whisk them till they are hot, having the pan placed over hot water; take them off, and whisk them till they are cold ; then put in lib. of caster sugar, and whisk till hot, after which again whisk until they are cold. When the eggs and sugar are perfectly light, take out the whisk, and stir in 2oz. of flour gently. From beginning to end the operation should not take more than twenty minutes. Cover the tins or wires with wafer-papers, and lay out the Biscuits, any size required, from a Biscuit-bag (see Fig. 153). Dust them over with coarsely- broken loaf sugar, and bake in a hot oven. Dutch. Biscuits.—Put 41b. of sifted flour on to a board, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of powdered loaf sugar and l table- spoonful of salt; make a cavity in the centre, add fib. of warmed butter, 1 pint of milk, pint of yeast, and four eggs, adding one ingredient at a time, and mixing it in before another is added. Put the whole into a bowl in a warm place to rise ; then make it up into small loaves, bake these in a quick oven for thirty minutes, take them out, cut them into halves, put them on tins, dry them again in the oven, pack them in boxes, and they are ready for use at any time. Edinburgh Biscuits.—Into 41b. of flour rub lib. of butter, and add 6oz. of sugar and 1 pint of milk. Mix thoroughly, then break smooth, and make twelve Biscuits out of every pound of dough; roll thin, dock, and bake in a brisk oven. “Excellent” Biscuit.—Take f gall, of flour, 2 table-spoonfuls of butter (or half lard will answer as well), 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and enough sour milk to make a very soft dough (not a batter), which should be well kneaded, but not broken. Shape into biscuits, and put into a cool oven on a baking-sheet, and heat up by degrees. Frozen Biscuits. —■ A very dainty dish this, but requiring special apparatus to prepare it. Put the yolks of six eggs into a copper basin with 2oz. of powdered sugar, \ gill of maraschino, and J gill of kirsch; with a pastry-whisk beat well together for two minutes ; then place the basin on a hot stove, and stir briskly with the whisk for five minutes. Remove the basin from the fire, and immediately put it into a vessel containing ice water, and stir continually for two minutes more. Add 11 pints of whipped vanilla cream, and mix well with the rest for three minutes; then cover the basin with a napkin, and let the contents rest for ten minutes. Have ready six paper cases, 4in. long, 3in. wide, and ljin. high, Fig. 162. Frozen Biscuit. and fill equally with the preparation (Fig. 162). Have ready also a square box, lOin. high by 6in. square, fitted inside with a loose two-tier frame; place this box in a freezing-tub, filling the tub round it with broken ice mixed with rock-salt. Wipe the cover neatly, and, after lifting it up, remove the frame and place three Biscuits on each tier; return the frame to the box, put the cover on, and let it freeze for an-hour-and- a-half. Have ready in the ice-chest a cold dessert-dish covered with a folded napkin; uncover the box, lift up the frame, and dress the Biscuits nicely on the dish, sending them to table at once. Geneva Biscuits. — (1) Put 3oz. each of pounded sweet and bitter almonds into a mortar, and add 12oz. of flour and the same of powdered loaf sugar ; then add the whites of two Biscuits—continued. or three eggs, and pound well. Turn the mixture into a basin, add the yolks of four more eggs and 12oz. of warmed butter, and work well until all the lumps disappear; then add the whites of four eggs whisked to a froth, and mix well. Put the preparation into small round or oval moulds, sprinkle over ground burnt almonds, and bake in a quick oven. The Biscuits may be cut into small pieces after being baked or iced, but in the latter case no burnt almonds should be sprinkled over them. (2) Rub 14oz. of butter into 61b. of flour, and mix in 41b. of sugar, ten eggs, and (oz. of baking-powder. Make a nice stiff dough with the eggs and as much milk as may be required; roll out the dough in strips lin. wide, and cut into lengths of 3in. Brush over the tops with white of egg and throw on lump sugar broken to the size of split peas. Bake lightly, and dry in the screen, or before the fire. German Biscuits. — Lay out on a pasteboard 41b of fine flour, and into this stir two beaten eggs, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 dessert-spoonful of grated orange-peel (or zest, as it is called), and 1 table-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda; work up thoroughly until it makes a light dough, then cover it over with a stout cloth, and let it rest for two or three hours. Have ready a large stewpan two-thirds full of boiling water; roll out the paste lin. thick, cut it into strips lin. wide, and cut these strips into 2in. lengths; wet the ends and form them into rings, and then drop them one at a time into the boiling water Let them boil until they float on the top of the water, and a minute or two more; then take them out with a skimmer, and put them into a pail of cold water, where they may be left two hours. At the expiration of that time take them out, and set on a sieve or folded cloth to drain. Put them on an oiled baking-sheet, brush the tops over with white of egg, and bake in a quick oven. Hermit Biscuits.—Rub 4oz. of butter into 21b. of flour, and then mix in lib of caster sugar and 1 teaspoonful of cara- way-seeds ; work this into a dough with five or six eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of ammonia. Make up the dough with the Biscuit-break (see Fig. 149), roll it out, cut the paste into rounds the size of half-a-crown, and egg them on top. Have ready some caster sugar and almonds with the skins on cut up into the size of split peas; dust the board thickly with the sugar, and scatter the almonds over Place the Biscuits on the sugar and almonds, press them down, so as to pick up some of both before putting them on buttered tins, and bake in a moderately quick oven. Honeycomb Biscuits.—Rub lib of butter in with 41b of flour, make a bay, add 21b. of finely-powdered sugar, and make into a paste with nine eggs and 1 teaspoonful of pow- dered carbonate of ammonia. Roll this out .)in. thick, and cut out with a small round plain cutter; but before doing so run over the surface with a crimping-pin. Bake on tins in a moderately quick oven. Iced. Biscuits.—(1) Beat up the yolks of fifteen eggs, and pass them through a strainer into a copper egg-bowl slightly warmed, and stir in 1 pint of syrup at 32deg.; add J pint of peach pulp pinked with carmine, 1 teacupful of noyeau, and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Place the bowl in a pan containing 6in. of hot water, and whisk steadily until it assumes the appearance of creamy batter; then remove it from the pan and whisk for ten minutes longer. Have ready some brick moulds, pour the mixture into them, and freeze in ice for an-hour-and-a-half. Take the bricks out, cut them into slices about lin. in thickness, and mask them all over with chocolate-water ice. (This is made w'ith 1 pint of syrup and jib. of chocolate dissolved to a smooth paste and frozen.) Smooth this over with a knife, wet with cold water, place the slices in the ice cave, and when all are packed in bury it in rough ice and salt, and freeze for an-hour-and-a-half. (2) This is prepared the same as No. 1, using 1 pint of strawberry pulp and loz. of vanilla sugar instead of the peach pulp, noyeau and essence of vanilla, and omitting the masking with chocolate-water ice. When the mixture is incorporated with the cream, put it in paper cases edged with stiff bands, and freeze in the ice cave. When ready for serving, remove the cases, and sprinkle the surfaces of the Biscuits over with brown ratafias crushed to a fine powder.