THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 6 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Air—continued. seen dancing about in the rays of sunshine like so many microscopical flies. Their vagaries may be watched with interest, and then their everlasting tendency to fall will be observed. It is important to understand this, because recent investigations have shown that amongst these floating particles are to be found the chrysalised germs of putrefaction. If the Air remains still, these germs will naturally settle upon anything that is within their falling course, and will start into active life so soon as they happen to alight upon congenial soil. This will suggest that food concealed under a bell-shaped cover—such as a tumbler of milk under a basin—will be less subject to putrefaction than that which is exposed to the influence of these falling bodies; and a very ingenious series of culinary utensils have been invented by Mr. Keen, of St. Leonards-on-Sea, to meet this view, and provide ventilation at the same time, an illustration of one of which is given by Fig. 3. Further special reference will be made to this subject in the article on Food-preserving. AITCHBONE.—That part of an ox which is cut from between the rump and the buttock. It is called indis- criminately Edge-bone, H-bone, and Haunch-bone. See Beef. AJADA.—A Spanish sauce made of bread steeped in water, garlic, and salt. AJO BLANCO.—To Spain this soup belongs. In Andalusia it is regarded with exceeding favour. A jo being the Spanish for garlic, and bianco, white. This means literally “ white garlic broth.” Pound in a mortar a large-sized clove of garlic and six or seven blanched almonds or peeled haricot beans until they are reduced to a smooth paste. Add to this, stirring well, a table- spoonful of olive oil, drop by drop; then water by degrees, rubbing thoroughly so as to entirely incorporate the lot. Con- tinue to add water until the mass is sufficiently wet to soak a thick slice of bread ; then pour in a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and add a little salt. Put in the bread broken into pieces half the size of an almond, and allow them to soak. Mix up again, and serve. AJOLIO.—Sp. for a sauce made of oil and garlic. See Ayoli. AKEE. — This tree (Blighia sap id a) is a native of Guinea, and is found also in the West Indies, to which part it was carried by Captain Bligh. According to Rhind, it was introduced into England in 1793. The fruit is oblong, ribbed, compressed in the middle, and dull orange in colour; it contains several large seeds, to the end of which is attached a rich, tasty, and slightly acid outer coat, which is the part eaten. A LA.—Fr. for “after the style of,” as a la [mode] Russe, in the Russian style; the word mode being under- stood. ALAJU.—A Spanish dessert dish ; a compote or paste made of almonds and walnuts. ALBANY CAKES.—See Cakes. ALBATROSS (Fr, Albatros; Ger., Kriegsscliiffvogel). —This monstrous bird of the Australian seas is not unfamiliar to chefs of sea-going ships’ kitchens. The flesh is hard, but makes capital stock, and the fat is pro- claimed excellent for frying. ALBEMARLE PUDDING.—See Puddings. ALBERT CAKES.—See Cakes. ALBERT PUDDING.—See Puddings. ALBORONIA.—A Sp anish dish made with tomatoes, pumpkins, and pimento. ALBUMEN (Fr. Albumine; Ger. Eiweiss, Eiweistoff; literally, the white of egg).—Flesh consists chiefly of cells containing Albumen, which constitutes the nutrient quality of the meat; so that it is important for cooks to Albumen—continued. understand something of the nature and properties of this substance. It must not be confounded with isinglass or gelatine, from which it is quite distinct, although similar in some of its qualities. Gelatine or isinglass contains but little nourishing value, whereas Albumen is the most nourishing substance known. In its natural state Albumen is thickly fluid, as seen in the white of an uncooked egg; but when subjected to heat it turns hard and white. The same result happens with the albuminous juice of meat when exposed to the heat of the fire in cooking, and, in consequence, the flesh becomes firm and set; with this exception, the Albumen of meat being combined with red corpuscles, which turn brown on cooking, it assumes a whitey-brown appearance instead of a pure white, as in the case of the Albumen of egg. Milk consists of minute oil globules, surrounded by albuminous serum; hence boiling renders it less subject to the attacks of putrefactive germs, which are ever floating in the air (see Air). So also with cooked meat: it is harder, and therefore “keeps better” (see Food-preserving). Uncooked Albumen is soluble in cold or tepid water; plunged into boiling water, it sets at once, and is no longer soluble. Hence, meat put into cold water, and then heated up to boiling, loses much of its nourishing albumen in the water or broth (see Boiling). For a similar reason, the cut surfaces of a piece of meat intended for roasting, over which the freed albumen has been flowing, can be furnished with a hard case, preventing further exudation, by exposing at first to the full force of a hot fire (see Roasting). Albumen exists largely in fish, as well as in flesh, and in vegetables, especially those which are termed “ succulent,” such as seakale and asparagus. In all cases the quantity of Albumen present in it determines the nourishing value of the food, and, whether animal or vegetable, is subject to the same changes in cooking. The various and almost innumerable uses to which the Albumen of the egg may be applied in cooking and con- fectionery, will be found under other headings. It is preserved in several convenient forms, the most important being that of uncooked Albumen, freed from its watery constituent by drying. Dried Albumen.—Let a thin layer of white of egg, or the serum of bullock’s blood, be exposed to the evaporating influence of dry air, until it concretes into a thin sheet, resembling horn or pale- coloured glue. In this condition it will keep in the dry for years. The drying may be still further continued by the aid of a gentle heat, until the Albumen becomes sufficiently brittle to be powdered. To prepare either for use, it is only necessary to dissolve sufficient in cold water, whisk into a froth, and stir up in the fluid to be clarified. ALCOHOL.—This word is derived from the Arabic— al, the; Kohol, spirit,—its discovery being attributed to the Arabians, who were great chemists at one time, and sufficiently wise also to prohibit its use amongst them- selves by direction of the Koran. Amongst some other races of men, being under the influence of strong drink was looked upon as equivalent to being possessed of evil spirits —hence the name, Alcohol—“ the spirit ”; but others, especially the natives of Central Africa, regarded such an individual as temporarily raised to the dignity of a god—or “elevated,” as we say in our language—and to such a one they permitted extravagances of conduct that, under other circumstances, would have been deemed outrageous. Alcohol is the product of fermenting sugar, and gives to wines, spirits, and beers, their intoxicating qualities. It is highly inflammable, and is used as “spirits of wine” for heating purposes; it also evapoi-ates freely, for which reason (see Refrigerating) it is sometimes used for cooling. Dilute. Alcohol may be procured by distillation from all saccharine liquors, after fermentation: brandy, from wine; mm, from the refuse juice of the sugar-cane; whisky, from fermented malt; arrack, from fermented