THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 70 Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, J-c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3ALORINE.—This peculiar dish might not perhaps suit the taste of Southern Europeans, but it is never- theless held in great esteem in Russia, whence it owes its origin. It is prepared as follows: Russian Balorine.—Cut lib. or so of cold roast or boiled fresh beef into very small pieces, and mix in some finely- chopped spring onions, five or six slices of boiled beetroot, and 1 teaspoonful of caraway seeds. Have ready a border of pieces of sorrel or spinach, put the mixture in the centre, pour over 1 wineglassful of whisky, sprinkle over or mix in one or two chopped hard-boiled eggs, and serve. BALTIMORE BUTTER PIE.—Jessup Whitehead, a famous American cook, states that at the Kissimmeequick Hotel—a noted resort on the Kissimmee River—they have a custom of keeping custard pie as a standing dish. But as supplies are sometimes delayed in delivery, and eggs are occasionally at a discount, the following receipt is nsed for making it without eggs, and it is then called Baltimore Butter Pie: Boil lqt. of milk with Coz. of fresh butter and 1 table- spoonful of caster sugar; then mix together the balance of 12oz. of sugar and 4oz. of dried flour, and stir them into the boiling milk, beating rapidly with an egg-whisk, and let it continue heating until thick. Line two deep custard pie- plates with crust rolled very thin, and pour all the mixture into them. No flavouring besides the butter is required. Bake in a slack oven until the filling begins to rise in the middle, hut be careful not to bake too long, or the contents will flow over and spoil the appearance of the pie. Cream used instead of the milk, or equal parts of each, makes a very rich pie. BAMBOO.—Of late years Bamboo canes have found their way freely into our markets, and a ready adaptation has been made of them to a variety of articles, such as small tables, chairs, supports for baskets, flower-pots, and other ornamental ware. But as an edible ingredient of culinary preparations, the British cook might be loth to accept them. Nevertheless, in many parts of India they form very favourite dishes, the yoimg shoots being exceedingly tender, crisp, and succulent, and often com- pared to asparagus. Bamboo Pickle.—Gather the young shoots when they are first v'sible above the ground, cut them into pieces about lin. in length, put them in a deep dish, sprinkle plenty of salt over them, and let them remain thus for two days. At the end of that time, put the Bamboo shoots in a jar with a root of green ginger that has been cut into slices, a few peppercorns, and a clove of garlic. Pill the jar up with vinegar, and set it in the sun, or in a warm temperature, for seven or eight days. At the end of that time the pickle will bo ready for use. Should it be required hot, one or two green chillies should be put in. Bamboo Salad.—Procure the tender shoots of the Bamboo, and blanch them in boiling water; drain them, put them in a salad-bowl, pour a plain dressing over, and serve. This dish is a favourite with tourists in Florida, and the mode of preparation is extremely simple. BANANAS (Musa sapientum).-—Whether it is that these deteriorate by the journey to England, or that they are gathered before they are mature, or whatever the reason may be, it is certain that Bananas as supplied to us here are a very inferior class of fruit, and of little or no use for dessert, cooking, or any other purpose. In some parts of the world where it llourishes, and that is wherever the mean temperature of the year exceeds 75deg. Fahrenheit, it is an important item of food, although it is admittedly deficient in nutritive qualities. The sugar it contains appears to constitute its chief claim to be regarded as a nutrient. The ripe fruit of the Banana is preserved, like the fig, by drying in the sun. It is then stated to be very agreeable eating, and meal can be made from it by cutting it in slices, drying in the sun, and pounding it. There has been some talk of introducing the tree into this Bananas—continued. country, and cultivating it as a British fruit, for its admirers say that in flavour it “ surpasses the finest pear.” But no real efforts seem at present to have been made to render the idea popular. By the natives it is eaten raw, roasted, or boiled, and is made into fritters, preserves, and marmalades, the meal into bread, and wine brewed from its juice. Baked Bananas.—Remove the skin or peel from a dozen or so Bananas, and cut them lengthwise in halves. Arrange these at the bottom of a baking-dish, putting them close together, sprinkle them over with caster sugar, put a few small lumps of butter on the top, grate a little nutmeg over the whole, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. By this time the Bananas should be well glazed, and if there is not sufficient of their own syrup to baste them with, add a little to the dish a few minutes before taking it out of the oven. Bananas cooked in this way should be eaten with cake and milk. Banana Cream Ice.—(1) Pour 1 pint of water into a sauce- pan on the fire, add 3 teacupfuls of sugar, and boil this for about twenty minutes; then add the pulp of six Bananas —or one or two more if a very strong flavour is desired—and add also the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Stir well for six minutes, then remove the pan from the fire, put it into a bowl of cold water, and beat well for ten minutes. When the mixture is cold, pass it through a tammy sieve, add lqt. of cream, turn the whole into the freezer, and let it remain until frozen. It is then ready for use. (2) Peel three large ripe Bananas, rub them through a fine sieve into a basin, mix them into lqt. of boiling sweet cream, and boil for five or six minutes. Lot the mixture cool, turn it into the freezer, and when sufficiently frozen it is ready for use. (3) Put in a vessel Jib. of powdered sugar with the yolks of six eggs, and mix well with the spatula for ten minutes ; add 1 pint of boiling milk, stir for two minutes longer, and pour the whole into a copper basin. Place the mixture on a hot stove and heat it thoroughly, stirring continually, but not letting it boil; remove, lay it on the table, mix in immediately 1 pint of sweet cream, and leave it to cool for half-an-hour. Have ready four peeled ripe Bananas, wipe them, cut them into halves, and remove the stones. Mash the Bananas into the cream, mixing thoroughly for three minutes; strain through a fine sieve into a freezer, pressing the Bananas through with a wooden spoon. Put on the lid, and set the mixture in an ice-tub, filling the freezer all round with broken ice mixed slightly with rock-salt; then turn the handle on the cover as briskly as possible for three minutes. Lift up the lid, and with a wooden spoon detach the cream from all round the freezer, and from the bottom as well; re-cover it, and turn the handle sharply for three minutes more; uncover, and detach the cream the same as before, being careful that no ice or salt drops in. Put the lid on, and repeat the same