THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 185 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, sec under their special heads. Bread—continued. two hours, dusting1 it over with a little flour; then form it into rolls about lin. thick and 3in. long, using plenty of flour on the hands while doing so. Bake the rolls in a quick oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour, brush them over with a little milk, bake for five or sis minutes longer, and they will be done and ready to be served. Fig. 198. French-roll Tins (Adams and Son). German Bolls.—(1) Put 2|lb. of flour into a large basin or bowl, make a hole in the centre, and add loz. of dissolved German yeast, \oz. of baking-powder, and 1 table-spoonful of salt dissolved in 1 pint of lukewarm milk. Work in only sufficient of the flour to produce an elastic mass, put the pan in a warm place, and let the dough rise. Add |lb. of butter warmed and worked up, six eggs, and 2oz. of sugar, and work vigorously with the 1 and for about ten minutes, when all the flour will be used up. Dust the dough over with a little more flour, make it into a lump in the pan, cover over with a cloth, and set it away in a warm place to rise. It must remain in this way for two or more hours—in fact, it should be made the night before it is intended to be used, in which case it must be kept in a cold place. Put the mixture when “proved” on a slab, break it with flour, and knead it well, so as to make it elastic; cut it up into as many pieces as required, form these pieces into shapes, put them on well-buttered baking- sheets, let them rise, or “ prove,” again in a warm tempera- ture, brush them over with well-beaten egg, put them into a moderately hot oven, and bake. Take them out when done, and they are ready for use, either hot or cold. (2) Prepare a sponge by dissolving 2oz. of dry yeast in J pint of warm milk, and stirring in lightly |lb. of flour. Cover the sponge with a cloth, and set it in a warm tem- perature to rise. Mix with 111b. of flour 4oz. of sugar, the grated peel of a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of pounded bitter almonds, half a grated1 nutmeg, a small quantity of salt, four beaten eggs, and sufficient warm milk to make a light smooth dough. Add the sponge to the dough, and thoroughly work the whole. Wash fib. of currants, stone Jib. of raisins, and chop 2oz. each of mixed candied peel and blanched sweet almonds. Slightly warm ^lb. of fresh butter, and mix this and the other ingredients with the dough. Knead the dough, cover with a cloth, and set to rise. Dust flour over a paste-board, put the dough on it, and shape into a long roll. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the roll on it, make two incisions about lin. in depth down the length of the roll with a knife, and lot it rise again; then bake it in a moderate oven, without allowing it to colour too darkly. When cooked, spread the top of the roll with butter, and leave until cold; then strew caster sugar on the top, and servo. Irish Bolls. — Sift 21b. of flour into a basin, and mix in -J- teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar. Beat the whites of two eggs to a froth, adding gradually sufficient butter-milk to form the flour into a stiff dough; form this into shapes, roll or otherwise, brush them over with white of egg, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes, or until they are of a light brown colour. Sour milk will do instead of the sour butter-milk, and the sourer the latter is, the lighter it will make the rolls. Mannheim Bolls.—Sift Goz. of flour on to a table, make a hole in the centre, and mix in three eggs and 3 table- spoonfuls of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Mix well to a firm paste, and sprinkle in ioz. of finely-powdered aniseed. Should the paste be too moist, add a little more flour and sugar. Divide the paste into three or four pieces, rolling them out about £in. thick and 1ft. in length, place them carefully on a well-buttered baking-sheet, glaze them with yolk Bread—continued. of egg, make a slight incision with a knife lengthwise, put them into a hot oven, and bake them. When done, take them out, cut them into slices about ^in. in thickness (see Big. 199), and they are ready for use. Fig. 199. Cutting up Mannheim Roll. Milk Bolls.—Mix fib. of flour, ^lb. of butter, and 1 table- spoonful of baking-powder with a little salt, and make into a light dough with cold milk. Form the dough into the shape of rolls, brush these over with egg, and dust a little flour over them. Bake in a sharp oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Potato Bolls.-—(1) In the afternoon, bake two large white potatoes, and mash them perfectly smooth before they cool; add to them 2 table-spoonfuls of white sugar and 1 breakfast- cupful each of flour and lukewarm water, and beat the mixture for five minutes or until it foams. In the meantime, dissolve half d small cake of compressed yeast in 1 gill of lukewarm water, and add it to the sponge when it foams (or use instead 1 gill of fresh yeast); cover the bowl containing the sponge with a thick towel folded several times, and set it where no draught or air can strike it. In the evening, put the sponge into a Broad-mixing bowl with 4qts. of sifted flour, 1 table- spoonful of salt, 1 teacupful of sugar, and 4 table-spoonfuls of lard or butter chopped or rubbed into the flour; add enough lukewarm water to make a dough stiff enough to knead, and knead it for half-an-hour, using flour to prevent the dough from sticking to the hands or board. When the dough is smooth and shining, put it into a buttered bowl or pan large enough for it to double its original bulk in rising; butter the top of the dough, cover the bowl with a folded towel, and set it in a place free from draughts in summer, and in cold weather near enough to the fire to prevent chilling of the dough. Two hours before wanted, knead the dough again for five minutes, form it into little rolls, put these in buttered baking-pans, brush the surfaces with milk or a little butter, cover them with a folded towel, put the pans where they will be shielded from draughts and where the temperature will be about 98deg. Fahr., let the rolls rise until they have doubled their size, and then bake them. The rolls will be all the better if there is time for them to rise to more than twice the original size before they are put into the oven, because the heat penetrates them so quickly that there is very little chance for the expansion to continue. The rolls should bo put into a hot oven, and baked for about fifteen or twenty minutes. (2) Use 1 pint of mashed potatoes mixed with 1 pint of luke- warm milk in which (lb. of lard or butter has been molted; dissolve also in the milk ^oz. of compressed yeast and 1 tea- spoonful of salt; add to these ingredients flour to make a batter thick enough to hold for a moment a drop let fall from the mixing-spoon. Cover this batter in an earthen bowl to prevent chilling by draughts, and place it in a moderately warm place until it is light and foaming. The length of time required for rising will depend upon the temperature of the room ; if the heat is too great, the fermentation cannot take place properly, and the rising will be checked. The bowl, therefore, should not be put where the hand cannot be borne with comfort, for the heat will be too great. When the sponge is light, mix with it more flour to make a dough stiff enough to knead without sticking to the hands or the paste-board, knead the dough for five minutes, roll it out about 4in. thick, and cut it out into rounds with a biscuit-cutter; lay two of these together, put them upon a buttered baking-pan, cover again with a folded towel, and let them rise again to twice their original height. When the rolls are light, brush them with