198 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Brioches—continued. eggs are conspicuous by tlieir absence.” Brioches are usually made in either of two or three sizes, and although shaped like miniature cottage loaves, they differ in that the correct practice is to bake them in fluted moulds, hence the bottoms take that impression. (See Big. 211.) Other shapes may be used at discretion. Fig. 211. Brioche and Mould. (1) Make a sponge of loz. of German yeast dissolved in 1 breakfast-cupful of warm water, mixed with enough flour to form a batter. When it has risen to twice its original size, it is ready for further manipulation. Put on a paste-board lib. of flour, make a bay in the centre, place in this lib. of warmed fresh butter, 1 teacupful of milk, ten eggs, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and the sponge, and work together, adding more flour if needed. Place it in a basin with a cover on, and put it by in a warm temperature for three hours. Afterwards roll out, and fold it up again three times in suc- cession. Take about one-quarter of the paste away, make the other round, slightly flatten it on the top, wet the bottom of the smallest piece of paste, make a ball of that also, flatten it, and put it on the other, glaze over with a paste- brush dipped in a beaten egg, set on a buttered tin, and bake in a quick oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. (2) Take 21b. of flour, and put Jib. of it in a bowl; mix with this some warm water and 1 breakfast-cupful of yeast, cover it over, and place it in a warm place to rise. Mix with the other flour lib. of warmed butter, and work it in till smooth; then add 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, 1 dessert-spoonful of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of cream or milk, and six well-beaten eggs. If the paste is too stiff, one or two more eggs can be added. When the leaven is risen, knead with the paste, rolling and mixing it several times. Roll the Brioche in a floured cloth, put in a basin, and let it remain for one night, in a cool or warm place, according to the season. When ready to use, form it into any shape required, glaze with yolk of egg, and bake in a fast oven about half- an-hour. (3) Brioche paste is always better for being made the day before using. Sift 41b. of flour on the table, and divide it into four parts. With one part mix 2oz. of yeast dissolved in 1 pint of water or warm milk, and set aside to form a sponge; make some slits across the leaven, put it into a pan with a cloth covered over it, and put before the fire for a quarter-of-an-hour to rise. In the remaining 31b. of flour mix 3 large pinches of salt and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, breaking in the hand 21b. of butter and put- ting it in the midst; then break over it fifteen eggs, mix all well together, knead thoroughly, flatten, and put the leaven over it. Pull to pieces, roll, flatten, and knead again ; dust some flour on a cloth, put the paste in it, and cover over ; lay it in a basin, and set in a cool or warm place, according to the season, to rise. When the paste is twice its original size, cut three parts into even pieces, shape them round with the hands, and lay them down ; shape the rest of the paste into small round balls, make small hollow bays in the larger pieces, and put the balls in them. Glaze by brushing over with egg, and bake in a hot oven ; when it begins to colour, cover with paper, and bake till done. (4) Take Jib. of sifted flour, put 2oz. of it into a basin, make a hollow in the centre, and put into this 2 drachms of com- pressed yeast and J gill of lukewarm milk. Dissolve well the yeast with the milk for about one minute, then quickly Brioches—continued. beat in the flour for another minute. Cover the basin with a cloth, and let it rest in a warm closet for fifteen minutes. Put into another basin the remaining 6oz. of flour, make a hollow in the centre, and add to-it J saltspoonful of salt, three eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet cream, 2oz. of butter, and loz. of powdered sugar. Mix thoroughly with the hand all except the flour for three minutes ; then incorporate the flour gradually, and beat it sharply with the hands for three minutes. Add one egg, and beat one minute ; add another egg, and beat one minute longer. Take 4oz. of butter, spread it in pieces over the paste, and mix in well for two minutes. The yeast being properly raised double by this time, add it to the other ingredients, and mix the whole carefully by cutting it several times with the hand, taking care to repeat this for at least five minutes. Cover the basin with a cloth, and lay it in a closet or elsewhere, at a temperature of about 80deg., for three hours, when it will have risen to twice the original size. With the right hand cut it again into pieces in every direction, for about four minutes; re- cover the basin with the cloth, and leave it in a cool place for thirty minutes. Dredge a board with flour, and pour the paste over it; cut off a 3oz. piece and lay it aside, with the hands rolling up the remaining part of the paste into a ball. Butter well a round 2qt. mould, lino it with paper, and put in the paste. Take the piece laid aside, roll it pear-shaped with the hand, and make a small cavity in the centre of the paste in the mould, using a spoon ; arrange the pear-shaped piece in this, having the larger part on top. Lay the mould on a baking-sheet, glaze the top lightly with beaten egg, and put it in a moderate oven ; after it has been in fifteen minutes, cover it with a buttered paper, close the oven-door, and bake for one hour longer. Test it by thrusting in a larding-needle, and if no dough adheres to this, the Brioche is thoroughly cooked ; if not, leave it in ten minutes longer. Remove from the oven, turn it out, let it cool, place it on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. (5) Make a sponge with Jib. of sifted flour and Joz. of German yeast dissolved in I teacupful of warm water, mix rather softer than puff paste, put in a covered pan with a little warm water, and let it rise. Add to Jib. of flour, Joz. of sugar, lOoz. of butter rubbed in, and 1 pinch of salt, and mix by adding alternately J teacupful of water and an egg, until three eggs are used. Mix in the sponge when it has risen to twice its original size, put in a basin, and stand in a warm temperature for four hours. Turn it out on to a floured board, and fold and roll it several times ; then put it back in the basin for two hours to rise further; fold and roll again, and once more put in a cool place for two hours. Take the paste, put it on a baking-sheet, shape it round, and drag the paste from the centre till it forms a ring 12in. in diameter ; after a few minutes, egg with a paste-brush, open well the inside of the ring to prevent its closing, and bake in a brisk oven for half-an-hour. The Brioche can be shaped according to fancy, but this will be found the easiest for baking. A Jib. Gruyero cheese cut in Jim dice, or Jib. of grated Parmesan, mixed with the above paste, will be found a relishing improvement. (6) Put Jib. of well-sifted flour on a slab, spread it out to form a well in the centre, put in Joz. of German yeast, mixed with a little warm water to dissolve it, and then mix in sufficient water to form a rather soft paste; knead this into a ball, put it into a basin, cover it with a cloth, and set it in a warm place where it may rise. Put fib. of flour on the slab, make a hollow in the centre, and put in 1 teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, dissolving them with a small quantity of water, and working in lOoz. of butter. When quite smooth, break in sufficient eggs to make a dough, and work the wholo well with the hands. When the sponge has risen to about three times its original size, put it on the dough, which should have been spread out, and knead them both together till thoroughly mixed. Spread a cloth over a basin, dust some flour over it, then lift the Brioche paste into it, and dredge over some more flour; fold the corners of the cloth over, and set the bowl in a cool place, but kept away from all draughts. On the following morning, turn the Brioche out of the napkin on to the slab, which should be marble, shake a little flour over it, and fold and knead the paste six times. Put the paste back in the floured napkin and basin, cover it, and leave it for two hours. Take two.