76 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. BARBERRIES (Fr. Epine-vinette, Yinettier; Ger. Berberitzer).—The fruit of the Berberis vulgaris (Fig. 82) is not so highly prized by cooks and others as it deserves to be, either for making jellies, preserves, cooling drinks, or sweetmeats. The plant from which the fruit is gathered is a very ornamental shrub, and when covered, either with flowers in spring, or fruit in autumn, is very pleasing to the eye. The leaves are of a yellowish or bluish green, and the red berries are gratefully acid to the taste; the odour of the flowers may be grateful at a distance, but close to they are strongly offensive. In olden times this plant grew profusely in the hedgerows of England, but has suffered banishment, if not extirpation, from a strange belief that its presence is injurious to the growth of corn crops. The roots boiled in an alkali yield a very good yellow dye. Barberry Cream.—To those who admire sharp sweet flavours, this should be a welcome dish. It is made by stirring into 1 pint of cream, Jib. of Barberry Jelly and Joz. of isinglass in an enamelled pan over a low fire. When the isinglass and jelly are dissolved, remove them from the fire, and add a little cochineal to colour. Sweeten with caster sugar to taste, whisk to a fine froth, and pour into a suitable mould, and pack in ice to set. For a light supper dish, this cream is supreme. Barberry Drops.— (1) Squeeze out as much juice as possible from 6oz. of Barberries, and mix it up with ljlb. of sugar. The sugar for drops should be crushed, then passed through a coarse sieve and afterwards through a very fine sieve, and the small lumps that remain in the fine sieve should only be used, as the fine or powder sugar is apt to spoil the appearance of the drops by making them heavy and compact. Put the juice and sugar mixture into a sugar-boiler with a spout or lip to it, and if it is too thick, add a little water. Stir well with a spatula over a stove until the sugar begins to make a slight noise, but without letting it boil, keeping the boiler on the side of the fire until the paste is done, which is ascertained by dropping a little on a slab, and seeing if it retains its round form and does not spread. If it is too thin, add a little more sugar. Let the drops fall from the spout on to a copper plate, or thick piece of cartridge-paper, cutting them off the spout with a bent piece of wire. Let them remain for one-and-a-half or two hours ; take them off the plate with a knife, or by damping the back of the paper; Barberries—continued. put them in boxes with paper between the layers, and they are ready for use. (2) Press out the juice of Jib. of Barberries through a sieve by means of a wooden spoon, and mix with it ljlb. of pounded sugar. Should the juice not moisten the sugar sufficiently, add a little clear water. Make no more paste than you are prepared to use at the time, as the second time it is heated it becomes greasy and difficult to drop. Boil to crack (see Sugar-boiling), and drop upon a buttered baking-sheet. When cold, these drops may be raised from the sheet by a flat knife. They make a very nice sweetmeat for children. Barberry Jam.—(1) Put 41b. of picked ripe Barberries into a preserving-pan with a little water and cook them slightly; add 3jlb. of sugar, and mash them well together until the sugar is dissolved. Put the pan on the fire, and boil quickly for from eighteen to twenty-five minutes, skimming frequently. When the jam is done and drops like a thick jelly from the spoon, pour it into jars, cover and tie down, and put away in a cool place until wanted. (2) Put equal weights of well-washed ripe Barberries and coarsely-broken preserving-sugar into a preserving-pan, with sufficient water to cover the Barberries before the sugar is added. Boil together slowly, and skim as required. When the jam sets by dropping a little on a cold plate, remove the pan from the stove, stir well for a few minutes longer, then put into jars, and tie down in the usual way. See Jams. Barberry Jelly.— (1) Put Gib. of ripe Barberries into a pre- serving-pan with i pint of water, stir over a stove until it begins to simmer, and then pass through a hair sieve, or the juice may be pressed out by means of a fruit-press. Leave this juice in a basin, and make a strong syrup at ball degree (see Sugar-boiling); add the fruit or juice, and continue to simmer for a little longer, stirring gently now and then. Remove with a skimmer any scum that rises, and in about twenty minutes the jelly will hang in broad triangular drops from the skimmer held sidewise, then (and not till then) the jelly is done, and ready to be put into pots as soon as it begins to cool. (2) Gunter advises that the syrup should be made first, the fruit added in the preserving-pan, and the whole boiled to the pearl (see Sugar-boiling), when the contents of tbe pan should be passed through a sieve, and the fruit pressed through as much as possible with a wooden spoon or spatula. In all other respects proceed as in No. 1. (3) Dubois’ system differs from either of the foregoing in that he uses gelatine to make the jelly, which simplifies the process and insures success, which is not so easily attained without by other than experienced confectioners. Take 3 handfuls of the berries, which have been picked free from stalks, throw these into J pint of boiling thin syrup in a pan, remove the pan from the stove, and leave its contents to infuse for half-an-hour or so. Then stir in loz. of fine gelatine, set on the stove again, and let it come to the boil, stirring slowly all the time. Directly it bubbles freely, regulate the heat so that it will simmer for an hour, and then strain through a fine sieve. To make this jolly very bright and clear, pass it again and again through a jelly-bag. When it begins to cool down, but before setting firm, stir in sharply a small bottle of champagne, and fill champagne glasses with the jelly, and pack in ice, taking care to keep the glasses perfectly upright. These jellies are very nice for ball-suppers, or buffets. Barberry Jelly with. Apples.—(1) Some cooks, and Jules Gouffe amongst them, will not use Barberries alone to make a jelly, but mix them with some other fruit, such as apples, gooseberries, or apricots. The addition of apples is certainly justifiable, and gives a body to the jelly; but apricots lose flavour by the mixture, and gooseberries have not a sufficiently distinctive character in their flavour to make any marked difference one way or the other. A very pretty compound dish of Barberry Jelly and Apples can be made in this way: Peel, cut into eight so-called quarters, five or six large cooking apples (Blenheim Orange or Calville apples for choice), and boil them soft without falling, in their syrup, made up of lqt. of water and 31b. of preserving-sugar; remove with a skimmer, and set aside on a sieve to drain. Boil up again the syrup from which the apples have been