TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 65 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Bacon—continued. gently until quite clone, which will take about an hour-and- a-half. Then remove the pan from the fire, place a cloth under the lid to keep in the steam, and let it remain until the Bacon and liquor are quite cool. Take the Bacon out, drain and skin it, and grate bread over it; or when it is quite cold it may be glazed with ijoz. of gelatine, dissolved in I teacupful of boiling water, with a little caramel colouring added. The piece of Bacon may be decorated with designs in vermicelli, which is prepared for the purpose by plunging it into boiling water and boiling for two or three minutes, and then taking it up with a fork or skewer and dropping it on to the glaze before it is set. Boiled Bacon and Cabbage.—(1) This dish is not always prepared with cabbage ; sometimes French beans are selected, or Bacon and broad beans are the choice. In either case the process differs only in the vegetable. Cut a good cabbage into quarters, and remove some of the thick part of the stem—as much as you can without disturbing the leaves. Soak it in a pan of cold water until wanted—some add salt to the water, but this does not appear to have any value. Put the cabbage into a large saucepan containing boiling water, with 1 teaspoonful of salt and 1 pinch of bicarbonate of soda, and cook for half-an-hour. Take lib. of the back of Bacon, clean off the smoky parts, put into cold water, and boil for half-an-hour by itself. Then drain both the cabbage and the Bacon, and put them together in one pot, covering them with boiling water which has not been used before, and let them cook slowly for another half-hour. Remove the cabbage as whole as the spoon will allow you, drain thoroughly through a colander, and after slicing the Bacon, serve it on the cabbage in a dish with a drainer. (2) Take a piece of the back or middle of Bacon, and clean and trim it. Cut, quarter, and wash clean a good head of cabbage, and press the water out as well as you can. Boil the cabbage and Bacon, with half a pod of red pepper, together for one or two hours, according to the thickness of the meat; and having skinned the Bacon, serve it on the top of the cabbage, in slices, or surrounded by the cabbage ; or the cabbage may he in a vegetable dish by itself. Broiled Bacon.—Slices of streaky Bacon, nicely trimmed, may be broiled in a double gridiron over or in front of a clear fire. Turn frequently until done. Or the slices, cut all of a size, may he rolled up and impaled on skewers, when they may either be broiled, or baked in an oven; remove from the skewer before serving. A very useful contrivance for cook- ing Bacon before the fire is a Bacon- toaster. The rashers can be turned as often as desired by lifting the liook-bar by the handle provided for the purpose (see Fig. 67). Broiled Liver and Bacon.—Broiling the Bacon for this dish is considered wasteful, hence it is usual in small kitchens to fry the liver and Bacon together. In this way the beauty of the dish is spoiled. The neatest plan is to fry the well- trimmed thin slices of Bacon, and having washed and sliced the liver not too thick, say -jin., dried it thoroughly in a cloth, floured it, and then dipped it in the Bacon-fat in the frying- pan, to broil that over or before a clear fire, peppering and salting whilst it is cooking. When done, lay each slice on a dish, with a piece of Bacon on each piece of liver. Egg-and-Bacon Pie.—See Eggs. Fowl-and-Bacon Sausages. See Fowls. Fried Bacon.—Select a piece of streaky or back, and trim the piece to be cooked of rind, bone, and smoky parts before slicing. Many try to cut rashers by slicing through the rind, wherein they make a great mistake; for in the first place, it requires an exceedingly sharp knife to cut through the tough skin at all, and when it does cut it through, the chances are that the knife works unevenly and cuts the rashers irregularly. By laying the Bacon rind-side down, slices may be cut towards the skin, and trimmed off after, which will leave the rind uncut, and therefore serviceable for other culinary purposes. Cook in a frying-pan till the fat is transparent and the lean lightly browned on both sides, and crisp. Bacon—continued. Drain on paper, and serve. Rashers of Bacon may also be broiled when they are much milder in flavour; but when fried it is advisable that the frying-pan should contain some other fat than that of the Bacon, or tho rashers will be fried too fast and burned up. Some cooks dip tho slices in egg and breadcrumb, with chopped parsley and pepper, and fry in hot lard. Thin rashers, too, may be rolled up and tied, hut when cooked the string must be removed before serving. Fried Eggs with Bacon.—See Eggs. Steamed Bacon. — Wash and scrape the piece of Bacon required to be cooked, put it into a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, and steam it until it is quite tender. Take it out, and it is ready for use. By cooking in this way, the quantity does not waste as in boiling, nor does the quality deteriorate. BADEN-BADEN PUDDING-.—See Puddings. BADET.—A fermented liquor made in Java from rice. It is a favourite drink amongst tlie natives, and no Javanese banquet or festival would be considered complete without it. By the addition of various spices and fruit juices to this Badet, some very delicious beverages are concocted. BAEL.—This fruit, sometimes known as Bengal Quince, is imported from the East Indies; it grows upon a tree of the orange tribe (JEgle Marmelos), and is usually gathered when but half ripe, then dried, and Fig. 68. Bael Fruit. used as a medicine. When ripe and freshly gathered, the fruit is very fragrant, and pleasantly refreshing to the taste. In our Indian possessions the European residents hold it in high esteem as a preserve. The dried fruit as received in this country is usually cut into slices, having on the outer side a smooth, greyish shell, and internally a hard orange or red pulp. It has no distinct smell, but tastes slightly acid and gummy. In its fresh state the fruit is mostly globular (see Fig. 68), and measures, on an average, from 2in. to 4in. in diameter; it, however, varies very much both in shape and size, some being flattened at each end like an orange, whilst others are oval, and others again partake of the shape of a pear. They have a smooth, hard shell, the interior being apportioned into ten to fifteen uneven cells, something of the character of an orange, each cell containing several woolly seeds. Between the cells the fruit is filled with a mucilaginous, juicy pulp, which has an agreeable aromatic flavour. The pulp, when mixed with water, and sweetened, forms a palatable cooling drink. The fruit is rarely eaten fresh. Bael Jam.—Cut up the required quantity of half-ripe Bael fruit, and remove the stones and gum round about them; rub the fruit with a little water through a sieve into a preserving-pan, add sufficient sugar to sweeten well, and simmer gently for about half-an-hour, by which time the jam should be thick. Let it get cold, turn it into bottles or jars, cork or cover them over, and let them stand in a cool place until wanted. K & L Fig. 67. Bacon- toaster.