THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 56 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, 1be., referred to, see under their special heads. Aspic—continued. and tastefully. Then fill up the mould with more jelly until quite full. Leave in the ice-packing until quite firm, and then turn out carefully on to a dish, and fill the centre with chipped salad. Crayfish in Aspic.—See Crayfish. Crofttons of Aspic for Ornamentation.—With appropriate moulds, it is astonishing what can be done with Aspic Jelly in the way of ornamenting cold dishes, especially when used in a variety of colours. Attelettes (silver skewers with orna- mental heads) are frequently decorated with a string of fancy meats or vegetables embedded in Aspic shapes. It is more frequently used either in mass, as described in the preceding recipes, or as croutons, of which Fig. 54 gives a good idea. These croutons may be of almost any shape, a well-made Aspic being easily cut and manipulated; or little moulds may be used, into which the hot jelly is poured. As a specimen of decorating a cold joint with Aspic Croutons, the accompanying engraving (Fig. 55) of cold ribs of beef thus ornamented, as illustrated by Gouffe, is a noteworthy example. After trimming the joint, which lies upon its side, and dressing the bone with a paper frill, a star is formed upon the broad part by the careful placing of croutons (see Fig. 54), and the centre is then filled in with finely-chopped Aspic. The tail part can be similarly decorated, and the joint surrounded on the dish by croutons and Aspic chopped as before. The effect is very pretty, and by the addition of slices of beetroot, stamped into patterns by a vegetable-cutter, and set about symmetrically amongst the jelly, together with sprays of well-washed, curly parsley, the picturesqueness of the design is greatly enhanced. A multitude of dishes, in the preparation and decoration of which Aspic Jelly plays an important part, will be found described in the course of this work. ASS.—Although it has been stated that the flesh of the Donkey is quite as palatable as that of the horse, it is doubtful whether either will ever occupy any Ass—continued. position amongst our natural foods. The Wild Ass of Persia is, however, considered by the Persians to form a very delectable dish, and the animals are hunted for culinary purposes only. No particular mode of cooking is prescribed, but from the reports received from travel- lers in Persia, the flesh would appear to admit of varied treatment. ASSES’ MILK.—The milk of the maternal donkey is recommended by some physicians as being superior to cows’ milk for the use of invalids. That it is richer in some respects there can he no reason to doubt, but the difficulty of obtaining it, and the excessive price charged for it where it is available, carry it beyond the reach of the moderate investor. The following receipts are en- dorsed by the medical faculty as being worthy imitations: (1) Put 2 teaspoonfuls of prepared pearl barley into a basin, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of water, working it well until it is perfectly smooth, and then mix in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of boiling water. Set the saucepan on the fire, add a piece of sugar-candy to sweeten, and simmer gently for five minutes. Pass the liquor through a fine sieve into a basin, and add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of new cows’ milk and two well-beaten eggs. Let it get cool, and it is ready for use. (2) Put Joz. each of candied eringo-root and prepared pearl barley into a saucepan over the fire, pour in 1 pint of water, and boil until it is reduced to 1 breakfast-cupful. Add 1 breakfast-cupful of cows’ milk, a small quantity of sugar, and loz. of gelatine dissolved in cold water. Pour the whole into a basin, and when cold it is ready for use. (3) To make 1 tumblerful of artificial milk, beat up the yolks of four fresh eggs, and add by degrees £ teacupful of orange-flower water. When these are well mixed, add 1 dessert-spoonful of caster sugar, and when that is thoroughly dissolved, pour in sufficient hot water to fill a tumbler, stirring briskly or beating with a fork. This is best pre- pared fresh as required, and the greatest care must be taken to have the eggs perfectly sweet and pleasant, for the least taint once will sicken an invalid of this useful pre- paration. (4) Put 2oz. of pearl barley into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil it gently for a few minutes; then strain off all the water and pour in another quart. Add ^oz. of hartshorn shavings, and double the quantity of candied eringo-root. Set the pan on the fire, and boil slowly until the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity. Pass it through a cloth or fine sieve into a basin, and it is ready for use. It should be mixed with an equal quantity of cows’ milk before using. Two noted chemists (Ckevallier and Baudrimont) give the comparative nutritive values of asses’ and cows’ milk, thus: Water. Casein. Butter. Sugar. Asses’ milk ... 907 ... 1'7 ... 1'55 ... 5’8 Cows’ milk ... 86'5 ... 36 ... 405 ... 55 by which it will be seen that cows’ milk contains much more casein (cheese) and butter, a trifle less sugar, and considerably less water than asses’ milk—rather a strong indication in favour of the cows’ milk for quality. ASSAFCETIDA.—This is a gum-resin exuded from the excised roots of Ferula (Nartliex) Asafcetida and some other plants of the same genus. It is brought into England in small, agglutinated, hard, but brittle masses or grains of different colours, whitish, reddish, or violet. It emits an extremely foetid odour, and has a pungent, aromatic, bitter taste, somewhat resembling that of garlic. In India it is used by the natives as a seasoning for their food, and is styled by them the “Food of Gods.” In Persia the leaves of the plant are eaten as salad; and the root, after being roasted, is considered a delicacy. In more civilised cookery it is sometimes used in place of garlic, and we are told by Dr. Pereira that he has been assured “ by an experienced gastronome that the finest relish which a beefsteak can possess may be communicated by