116 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. to table, more of the half-glaze should be poured over the fillets. Fillet of Beef in Continental Style.—Cut the steaks across the fillet rather more than lin. thick; they will be somewhat circular; make them as much so as you can, by paring off the fibres and loose pieces, but leaving every bit of fat. TTlatten each on a block by a blow or two with the flat side of a meat-chopper, or a wooden beater made for the purpose, till it is reduced to about half its original thickness. Dip it in tepid butter, dust it over with pepper and salt, and grill it on a gridiron over a brisk, clear fire, turning it frequently. Serve it rather underdone and full of gravy, on a hot dish in the middle of which you have laid a piece of butter sprinkled with chopped parsley, garnished with fried potatoes ; or with watercress, seasoned with pepper, salt, and vinegar; or with brown mushroom sauce. Fillet of Beef in Flemish Style.—Skin and lard carefully about 31b. of the fillet steak of Beef. Braise until cooked, which will take about three-quarters-of-an-hour, or less. Slice the fillet, not too thick (about -(in.), and arrange around, or along the centre of a large dish. Garnish with seasonable vegetables, and serve with Spanish sauce. The vegetables should be cut up into shapes, and between each pile lay two or three bits of rolled streaky bacon. Fillet of Beef a la Gouffe. — Trim a fillet of Beef weighing from 81b. to 101b., lard it with some strips of fat bacon, put it in an oval pot, or fish-kettle, with lqt. of mirepoix and £ bottle of marsala, and cook for two hours, basting the meat frequently with the gravy. When the fillet is done, put it in the oven to keep warm, and glaze it with meat glaze. Prepare the garnish as follows: make eight chicken forcemeat quenelles, Sin. by ll2in., roll them to an oval shape, and “ contise ” them with thin slices of tongue. Take twelve large truffles, carefully washed, but not pared, and cooked in marsala. Wash and cook twelve cocks’ combs. Make some small chicken quenelles. Slice some mushrooms and truffles, and mix them together with the small quenelles in some Godard sauce. Take a dish, and with some boiled rice make a socle or stand on it, of the same length and breadth as the fillet, and 3in. in height ; brush it over with egg, and colour it in the oven. Drain the fillet, and put it on the rice socle, put the ragout of small quenelles, sliced mushrooms, and truffles all round the socle on the dish; on the ragout place all round alternately the large quenelles and the truffles, and put a cock’s comb on each truffle. Garnish four silver skewers (see Attelettes) with cocks’ combs and truffles, putting the cocks’ combs at the top; stick these skewers in the fillet, and serve with more Godard sauce in a boat. This very high-class dish should only be attempted by experienced cooks. Fillet of Beef l’Hollandaise.—Select a short fillet of Beef (Fig. 134), trim it, and cut it into slices about |in. thick. Fig. 134. Short Fillet of Beef. Sprinkle these over with salt, put them into a basin with 6 table-spoonfuls of butter warmed and slightly oily, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and let them remain for an hour. Dip them lightly in flour, put them into a double broiler, or on a gridiron, over a clear fire, and cook them for five or six minutes, turning them, to cook both sides. Put a pile of mashed potatoes in the centre of a dish, arrange the Beef—continued. slices round it, pour round Dutch sauce, and serve with sprigs of parsley for garnish. A short fillet would weigh from 2ilb. to 31b. Fillet of Beef in Jelly.—Trim a short fillet of Beef (Fig. 134), weighing about 211b., cut from the tenderloin, and make a deep slit in the side, but taking care not to go through the ends on to the other side; stuff the cavity with veal forcemeat, sew up the incision, and bind the fillet round with broad tape, making it into a good shape. Put a couple of slices each of ham and pork into a saucepan, place the fillet on them, and add two calf’s feet and two sticks of celery. Pour over igall. of good clear stock, place the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for two-and-a-half hours. Strain off all the liquor, and let the meat harden ; then scrape off every morsel of fat, put it into another saucepan, and add a small slice of onion and the whites of two eggs well beaten in 4 table-spoonfuls of cold water. Put the saucepan on the fire, and when the liquor boils, sprinkle over salt to taste, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for about half-an-hour. Strain the liquor through a cloth, put a little of it on the bottom and round the sides of a charlotte-mould, say to about jin. in depth, pack the mould in ice, and let the jelly harden. When it is nearly set, decorate the mould with hard-boiled eggs cut in rings or slices. Trim off the ends of the fillet, remove the tape, put it in the centre of the mould, and pour over the remainder of the strained jelly. Should the fillet float in the jelly before it is hardened, place a slight weight on the top of it to keep it down. When the whole is firm and set, turn it carefully out on to a dish, with a garnish of hard- boiled eggs cut in rings, and a stoned olive in the centre; decorate these with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Fillet of Beef with Macaroni.—Prepare the fillet, lard it through the thickest part with strips of cooked tongue and fat bacon, and tie it up with string. Melt alb. of butter in a saucepan, put in the fillet with two or three onions, some cloves, peppercorns, and bay-leaves, and cover it with slices of fat bacon. Place over a brisk fire for a few minutes, then half cover the fillet with broth and sherry in equal quantities. Stew the meat very slowly for two hours. Boil lib. of macaroni till tender, then drain off the water. When the meat is cooked, skim the fat off its stock, which pass through a fine hair sieve on to the macaroni. Add to the macaroni a little less than J pint of tomato sauce, stir it over the fire till it begins to boil, then mix in £lb. of grated Parmesan cheese and the same quantity of Gruyero cheese ; stir it about quickly over the fire, and season with salt, sugar, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Spread half of the macaroni on a hot dish, then a layer of grated cheese, then spread the remainder of the macaroni on that, brush it over with beaten eggs, cover it with greated breadcrumbs, baste these with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and brown them under a salamander. Put the meat on the macaroni, brush it over with glaze, and serve, with a sauceboatful of gravy. Fillet of Beef a la Mirabean.—Take a fine slice of fillet steak and broil it nicely; place a pat of maitre-d’hotel butter on the top, and garnish round with fillets of anchovies, olives, and watercress. Fillet of Beef in Neapolitan Style.—Cut off five or six steaks from a fillet of Beef, previously trimmed, which beat slightly, season, and put into a kitchen basin ; pour over a cooked marinade, and let them remain therein for two hours ; drain them, then wipe, sponge, and place them in a saute-pan with butter, and fry them on both sides. Put into a small stewpan 1 handful of dried currants well cleansed and scalded in boiling water for one minute, mix in it 3 table-spoonfuls of dried almonds blanched and cut up in long shreds. The Beef-steaks being done, take them out, drain off the fat out of the saute-pan, leaving the meat-sediment, pour in a part of the marinade stock of the Beef-steaks, let it boil, thicken it with a little brown sauce, and 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly. Two minutes or so later, pour this sauce over the currants, passing it through the tammy, and let it boil up again. Dish the Beef-steaks, and pour the sauce over. Forcemeat of Beef.—Put 4oz. of finely-chopped Beef-suet into a basin with some breadcrumbs, lib. of finely-minced