173 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. BOUZLLI(E).—Fr. for “boiled,” as bceuf bouilli— boiled beef. BQUILXjIE.—This is the name given in France to floor or other farinaceous food boiled in milk to the consistency of paste. Much used for feeding children. Amongst the more prominent of these are Polenta, Miliasse, Cruchade, Gaudes, or Fromert. BOHIXsIjQU.—Fr. for “ broth.” The term has been very much adopted in recent years as a generic term for concentrated beef and other meat essences. BOTTLE A BIZ.—A bowl made of tin or metallic gauze, in which rice or small patties are enclosed when it is desired to cook them in the saucepan in which broth is being made. BQULETTES.'—Little balls of chopped meat or breadcrumb, used chiefly for garnishing. BOUQUET GARNI.—Fr. for a bunch of sweet herbs used for flavouring soups, stews, &c. It consists usually of a small handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf. The parsley should be first thoroughly washed, the thyme and bay-leaf set in the middle of it, and the ends of the parsley folded down to hold the two others in; it must then lie tied round with string, and trimmed so that none of the outside leaves can break off in the soup or ragout. About 3in. would be the length of a well-constructed bouquet. The following directions are given by a distinguished cook : Take four sprays of well-washed parsley-leaves—if the sprays be small, take six—one stalk of well-washed soup celery, one bay-leaf, one sprig of thyme, and two cloves placed in the centre of the parsley; fold it well, and tie tightly with a string, so as to prevent cloves, thyme, and bay-leaf from dropping out while cooking, and use when prescribed in various receipts. BOVRANI.—An Oriental dish, which is a sort of con- somme of chicken, and barley cleared of its hull, reduced to a bouilli, and perfumed with various kinds of herbs. BOUBGEOISE, A LA.—The literal meaning of this French term is “ in a citizen’s or commoner’s style ”; but continued use has raised it above its lowly origin, and it is now used to signify a more elaborate prepara- tion than would be likely to be used by the class to which it refers. See Sauces. BOURGNIGNON(N£).—A French term applied to several dishes prepared with red-wine, as bceuf Bourgnignon —beef with Burgundy. EOUTABGUE.—The roe of the mullet, dried and pickled, which is eaten raw in Provence, and in parts of Italy and the East. Also known as Botargue or Botargo and Poutargue. Boutargue ■with. Oil.—Cut the Boutargue in slices, season with oil, pepper, and lemon-juice, and serve as a hors d’oeuvre or side dish. Boutargue Salad.—Put lib. of Boutargue in a mortar, and pound it well; mix with it 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice and 1 teaspoonful of the best olive oil, and pound again for a few minutes. Pour in the same quantity as before of lemon-juice and olive oil, and pound again ; continue in this way until the mixture is of the consistency of thick cream; then pour it on to a dish. Blanch and skin some pistachios or almonds, cut them into fillets, ornament the top of the salad with them, and serve. The above is a Turkish dish, and is served in that country at breakfast or luncheon, or in the middle of dinner, to sharpen the appetite. See Caviare. BOVAXiIUE.—A sort of extract of beef juice, which is considered by some cooks to be a useful adjunct to gravy stock. BOVB1X,.—“ Liquid beef,” as this essence is some- times called, has obtained great favour in this and other countries for its savoury, nutritious, and invigorating qualities. Its mode of preparation being the secret of Bovril—continued. its manufacturers, we must accept the verdict of analysts, who proclaim it to be produced from genuine meat. A teaspoonful in a breakfast-cupful of hot water, seasoned to taste, gives a very nice beef-tea drink, and is pleasantly stimulating whether consumed hot or cold. As a strengthener for soups and gravies, its employment is a matter of taste. BRACRETO.—A Piedmontese wine of fine flavour and bouquet. BRAINS (Fr. Cerveaux; Ger. Geliirn, Hirn).—The modem cook has a marvellous faculty for turning every part of an animal into food, and, amongst other portions of what by some would be treated as offal, we have delectable dishes that are very digestible and nutritious prepared from Brains. A few receipts for their pre- paration are given hereunder, all or any of which will give good results if diligently followed; but it must not be forgotten that the first care is to thoroughly cleanse them of blood and skin, and see that they are taken from a freshly-killed animal. All Brains are so pre- cisely the same in constitution that, excepting for size, it matters little from what animal they are taken. Brain Cakes.— (1) Blanch the Brains by soaking in salted water for two or three hours, and then boil them for fifteen or twenty minutes to get them firmer; chop them up, and put them in a mortar with 1 teaspoonful of parsley chopped fine, 1 saltspoonful each of mace and cayenne, salt and pepper to taste, and two eggs well beaten, and pound well together until they make a stiff paste. Lay out the paste in small rounds about l|in. in diameter, dip them in egg-and-bread- crumbs, and fry a light brown. These cakes are used as a garnish for calf’s head, and are considered very delicate. (2) Wash the Brains in salted water to remove the blood, and boil fast for ten or twelve minutes to harden them. When done, take them out and mince finely. Make a paste of breadcrumbs, 1 pinch of salt, a little pepper and chopped parsley, with sufficient egg to make it thick. For every fib- of Brains take Alb. of this paste, or double its quantity, and mix together with the Brains. Take a small quantity of this mixture and roll it into a ball, and then flatten into a cake. Dip the cake in egg-and-breadcrumbs, and fry in a little butter on both sides until a light brown. They can be served with either toasted bacon, gravy, or as a garnish. Brain Croquettes. — Put three large Brains into salted water, wash them thoroughly to remove the membranes and make them perfectly white, and beat them up well with three eggs to make a paste. Boll the paste into egg-shaped balls, dip into egg (well beaten) and breadcrumbs seasoned with a little parsley, pepper, and salt, and fry in lard to a light brown. Brain Cutlets.—This is an easy way of using the remains of Brains that have been left. Cut them into pieces about lfin. in diameter, dip each piece into egg first, and then into raspings finely sifted, a small quantity of parsley dried and rubbed to a powder, with pepper and salt to taste. Fry in butter till of a light brown colour. Garnish the dish with pieces of bread fried in the same way, cut the same size, and arranged alternately. Serve with a rich gravy. Brain Fritters. —Wash a large Brain in salted water, and boil for fifteen or eighteen minutes in a good stock. Allow it to get cold, cut it in very thin slices, dip each one in frying batter, and put them into very hot fat. To prepare the batter, mix a level teacupful of flour with 1 gill of water, add 1 table-spoonful of olive oil or butter warmed to melting, the yolk of an egg, and 1 pinch of pepper and salt. Let it stand for an-hour-and-a-half or two hours, then beat the white of an egg to a strong froth, and mix all together. The fritters are best fried separately or two at a time. When done, let them rest on paper or a sieve, to drip the fat from them. Serve on a folded napkin or dish-paper, garnished with parsley dried and dipped in the fat. Brains and Tongues au Gratin.—Take two small Brains and tongues, and wash them well in salt and water. Place all in a stewpan and cover them with cold water, with a little salt, and boil for two minutes ; then remove from the water and