THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 229 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. Balmoral Cakes.—Put 3Mb. of flour into a sieve with lloz. of bicarbonate of soda and tartaric acid, letting the soda predominate, and sift them two or three times ; then work in lib. of butter and the same of sugar, make a cavity in the centre, put in a few caraway-seeds, and, lastly, five eggs beaten up in lqt. of milk. When the dough is ready, divide Fig. 254. Bai.moral-cake Mould. it into pieces, put them in well-buttered moulds (see Fig. 254), sprinkle caster sugar over the tops, and bake in a moderate oven. Bath Cake.—(1) Mix with lib. of flour, Jib. of butter, four eggs, J pint of yeast, half a grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of caraway-seeds, and Jib. of sugar. Put in a Ca'ke-tin and let it rise before baking. (2) Take 1 Jib. of moist sugar, and add f pint of water; let it stand all night. Into 4 Jib. of flour rub 3oz. of butter; make a well in it, and pour in the sugar and water with J pint of honey-sweetened water added. Roll thin, cut out in shapes, place on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven. (3) Take Jib. of sugar, Jib. of butter, fib. of flour, two eggs, 1J gills of milk, 2oz. of bicarbonate of soda, 1 pinch of powdered nutmeg, and candied citron-peel. Warm the butter and work it in a hot basin into a thick cream, then introduce into it the eggs, taking them one by one and beating freely. Add the bicarbonate of soda, sugar, flour, and milk, all of which put in gradually, working the preparation with a spoon. The paste must be thick enough to keep together so that it does not spread when placed on the baking-sheet. Now take the paste up with a table- spoon, arrange it on an oiled baking-sheet, in pieces about the size of a walnut, being careful to place them a little distance from each other. Set on each of these pieces a large slice of candied citron-peel, and let them bake in a moderate oven till done. Beaulieu Cakes.—Separate the whites and yolks of eight eggs, and beat them separately; slightly warm lib. of butter, beat it until creamy, then mix in the eggs, the yolks first and the whites last. Mix 12oz. of caster sugar with lib. of sifted flour, also 1 teaspoonful of powdered cloves, a grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Work the butter and eggs gradually in with the flour, then add 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and 12oz. of well-washed and dried currants; continue working the mixture for nearly an hour. Butter two Cake-tins, and pour in the mixture; put them into a brisk oven, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Half the quantity of the above mentioned ingredients can be used in the same proportions. To make the Cakes less rich, leave out a third of the quantity of sugar and a third of the quantity of butter. Beauvilliers Cake.—Pound Jib. of sweet almonds, adding the white of an egg to prevent oiling, and mix with Jib. of caster sugar and the whites of five eggs. Put this mixture into a basin with lib. of caster sugar, and whisk briskly to a stiff froth, gradually adding the yolks of twelve eggs ; then add 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, the same quantity of ground rice, fib. of fresh butter, warmed to melting, and the whipped whites of seven eggs. Put into a buttered flat tin and bake in a slow oven. When cold, mask it with kirscli icing. Black Cakes. —(1) Mix well together lib. of butter, 21b. of caster sugar, and 3 pints of flour ; then add J pint of molasses, Cakes—continued. the same of brandy and wine, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of ammonia (saleratus), loz. each of all kinds of powdered spices, twelve eggs, 31b. of stoned raisins, 21b. of washed and dried currants, and Jib. of well-chopped candied citron- peel. Make into a strong dough, and put into deep tins and bake for three or four hours in a moderate oven. (2) Warm lib. of butter and beat up with lib. of caster sugar until they make a cream, then add ten eggs, two at a time, beating well, and 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour. When the flour is all in, add 2oz. of mixed spices, 1 teacupful of burnt-sugar colouring, 1 teacupful of molasses, the same of brandy, and 1 table-spoonful of essence of lemon. The batter will then be quite thin; mix in, floured well, 2Jib. of stoned raisins, the same of cleaned and dried currants, ljlb. of citron-peel, cut fine, and a few finely-shredded almonds. Line Cake-moulds with buttered paper, and put the mixture into them. Put the moulds in sheets of greased paper, and tie around them with twine, so as to keep off some of the heat and prevent the fruit- burning. Bake in a rather slow oven from two hours to two-hours-and-a-half. Bonnefeadas Cakes.—Make a rich puff paste, using lqt. of flour, divide it in two pieces, roll each out very thin, and spread with butter, washed and creamed, and beaten up with Jib. of fine moist sugar and 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Roll each up, wet the edge to fasten it, and cut into slices, about lin. wide ; put these in a baking-dish, sprinkle over them caster sugar, small pieces of butter, and cinnamon. Bake quickly. Turn them out of the dish while hot, and serve hot or cold. Bonnet Cakes.—Put half a stick of cinnamon and the peel of half a lemon into a small saucepan with J pint of water, and boil for three or four minutes; strain the water, and stir it into ljoz. of flour. Pour the paste into the saucepan, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Mix about loz. of butter with the paste, leave it until cold, then mix in with it the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, season with small quantities of salt and pepper, and beat the mixture well. Put a good supply of lard into a deep frying-pan, place it over the fire until boiling, and drop in the mixture with a dessert-spoon. As the Cakes are browned and cooked, skim them out of the fat, and lay them on paper near the fire to drain. When all are cooked and well drained, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, strew caster sugar over them, and serve while very hot. Bordeaux Cake.—Take fib. of butter, Jib. of caster sugar, ljoz. of ground almonds, 1 pint of flour, six eggs, and 1 wineglassful of brandy or wine; mix the butter well with the sugar, break in the eggs one or two at a time, and work Avell; then add the almonds, flour, and brandy, and bake in a round hoop (see Fig. 255) on a baking-sheet. When baked and cold, cut into thick slices, and spread each slice with jam or marmalade, and re-build the Cake before serving. Breakfast Cakes.—(1) Dissolve Joz. of German yeast in a basin Avith J pint of warm milk, and stir into it sufficient flour to make a batter. When this has risen, or sponged as it is called, warm Jib. of butter and mix with a little milk, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and the yolks of eight eggs. Beat up well, and make into a dough with the remainder of 21b. of flour, knead lightly, and then make it into Cakes about 2in. Fig. 255. Breakfast Cake and Hoop. thick, put them into buttered small hoops (see Fig. 255), lay the hoops on greased baking-sheets, and Avhen the dough is nicely risen put them into a warm oven and bake. When done cut them into thick slices and butter. Serve hot. (2) Rub 4oz. of butter into lib. of flour until smooth, then mix in 1 saltspoonful of salt, J pint of warm milk, J teacupful