THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 80 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Barley—continued. (4) Take lib. of neck of mutton, remove all fat and bones, cut tbe meat up small, and add to it 1 table-spoonful of well-washed Barley and 1 pint of cold water. Boil up slowly, and simmer for two hours. Then remove the bones, boil them separately in about J pint of cold water for half- an-hour, and then strain the liquor into the soup. Season with salt, skim off what fat there may be, and serve with dry biscuits. (5) Put into a large saucepan 2qts. of good broth free from fat. Add to it Jib. of well-washed Pearl Barley, which has been previously boiled in water for half-an-hour; also put in at the same time 2 breakfast-cupfuls of young vegetables, such as carrots, celery roots, and turnips cut into small dice. Boil up, and simmer for an-hour-and-a- half. When the vegetables are done, pour the soup into the tureen, in which a few table-spoonfuls of cooked green-peas, asparagus heads, or cauliflower sprays have been previously placed. Further season with a little chopped chervil, and serve. (6) The variety of Pearl-Barley soups appears to be almost interminable, owing in a large measure to the great adapta- bility of this grain to soups and broths. The following is a French receipt, and greatly esteemed at high-tea tables: Melt 6oz. of butter in a stewpan, and fry in it for a few minutes Jib. of well-washed Pearl Barley; add 2qts. or 3qts. of thin broth, stir the soup until boiling, season with salt, and simmer gently for about two hours; then introduce into it 7 or 8 table-spoonfuls of celery cut into small slices ; half- an-hour after thicken the soup with the yolks of four eggs, beaten up with J tumblerful of cream. Place again upon the stove, and whilst simmering stir in 4oz. of butter, a little at a time. Pour it into the soup-tureen, and serve quite hot. Barley Stew.—(1) Cut into pieces Jib. of cold roasted or broiled meat, and put it into a saucepan with J teacupful of well-washed Barley and two finely-chopped onions. Sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of flour, 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, and a small quantity of pepper; pour in lqt. of flour, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for about two hours. Add four potatoes, peeled, washed, and cut in slices, simmer for an hour longer, and then sprinkle in a little more salt and pepper if required. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Take about Jib. of cold roasted or broiled lean of meat, two medium-sized onions, four potatoes, J breakfast- cupful of Barley, 1 table-spoonful of flour, and lqt. of water. Cut the meat into dice, wash the Barley, and cut the onions very fine. Put all in a stewpan, dredge with the flour, adding J table-spoonful of salt and J teaspoonful of pepper, add the water, and simmer for two hours. Pare and slice the potatoes, add them to the stew, and simmer one hour longer. More salt and pepper may be added if required. Serve very hot. Barley Water.—(1) The following receipt is especially recom- mended for its simplicity : Put 1 teacupful of washed Pearl Barley in lqt. of very pure, cold, soft water, and place on the fire. When it boils up, skim carefully, and let it con- tinue boiling for at least half-an-hour; then strain off the water from the Barley, and let it cool. Some sweeten Barley Water, and flavour it with the juice of lemon; but it is better for invalids to take it without these additions. Note that the same Barley may be boiled two or three times over. (2) If a sweet Barley Water is desired, as it may be sometimes for taking after or disguising medicine, such as cod-liver oil, take 1 table-spoonful of Pearl Barley, and wash it well in cold water; then pour off the water, and put the Barley, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and half a lemon (sliced) into boiling water. Let it stand covered and where it will keep hot without boiling, for three hours; then strain it, and let it get cold for use. Currant jelly or orange-juice may be used instead of the lemon. Barley Water for Coughs.—Add to lqt. of Barley Water (No. 1) Joz. of sliced and well-bruised stick-liquorice, 2oz. of chopped dried figs, 2oz. of stoned and chopped raisins, and 1 pint of water. Let this boil up, then simmer until the liquid is reduced to about 2 pints, and then strain for use. For children with whooping-cough this drink is Barley—continued. invaluable, but must be given with discretion, a sip or so at a time. BARLBY SUGAR.—The reason that Barley Sugar is so named is because it was originally made with a decoction of Barley. To make this favourite sweetmeat some knowledge of sugar-boiling is necessary; so that it will be well before commencing, to make acquaintance with the details given under that heading. There are several methods advocated by different confectioners, each having one for himself, but the following receipts will be found sufficient for all practical purposes. Any flavouring, such as vanilla, ginger, &c., may be added. (1) Put 21b. of crushed loaf sugar in a pan with 1 pint of water, and place it on the fire to boil; when it is at the feather degree {see Sugar-boiling), add a little cream of tartar, and continue boiling to the crack degree ; when this degree is attained shake in a few drops of essence of lemon, and colour with a few drops of infusion of sandelkolz mixed with 2 drops of acetic acid; pour the syrup on to a marble slab or large flat dish (previously oiled), cut it into strips, and when nearly cold take the strips in your fingers and twist them. When quite cold put them into bottles, and keep dry and cool. (2) Dissolve and boil 31b. of crushed loaf sugar in 1 pint of pure water, and in this stir briskly the white of an egg. Strain the syrup, and boil to candy height (see Sugar- boiling) ; add 1 teaspoonful of citric acid or white vinegar, and then boil again quickly for a minute or two, so as to regain the candy height. Stir in essence of lemon to flavour. Then pour the syrup over an oiled marble slab, and when it sets stiff and can be handled, cut it into strips, and twist it like a screw or rope. (3) White Barley Sugar is made the same as above, only without colouring. When poured out on the marble slab, throw the sides of it which cool first over against the middle, so that it cools all alike, and then when possible to handle, it is to be pulled over a hook on the wall and drawn over and over by doubling until the body of it becomes quite white. Dip your hands now and then in fine starch-powder to protect them from the heat of the sugar. After this drawing is completed, pull the mass out, and twist it; let it cool on the slab, cut it into lengths, and put into bottles to keep. (4) When Barley Sugar is required for decorative purposes it is not an unusual thing with high-class confectioners to increase tho “ golden ” effect by mixing in, after the sugar is boiled, a few sheets of thin leaf gold, such as are used for gilding. Pour the syrup into a small oiled pan, and just before it becomes set it may be shaped with the back part of a knife or other tool. Mark it out over the surface, and when the sugar is quite stiff and brittle the shapes may be easily snapped apart. When an orange flavour is desired, it is better to rub off the rind on to lumps of sugar and add these to the boil. The juice if added is liable to burn, or discolour the Barley Sugar, and render it bitter. A little caramel can be used for colouring at discretion. Australian Barley Sugar.—Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar into a sugar-boiler, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Set the sugar-boiler on the fire, and boil to the crack degree ; then add 1 teacupful of filtered orange-juice, 1 liqueur-glassful of kirschenwasser, and 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid, also a few sheets of thin gold leaf, the same sort as is used for gilding. Have ready a well-oiled deep saute-pan, pour in the mixture, and before it sets mark it in the shape of diamonds. When the Barley Sugar is quite set and firm break it up where it was marked, and it is ready for use. Barley-sugar Cream.—The famous Louis Eustache Ude has left us a receipt for this, which has been modified hereunder to suit modern times: Melt about loz. of sugar with a table-spoonful of water in a small sugar-boiler. Let it reduce till it is brown, but bo careful to keep stirring to prevent the sugar burning and getting bitter to tho taste. When it is quite brown, dilute it with 1 table-spoonful of sweetened water. Take lqt. of cream that has been gently warmed, pour the caramel into it, and add sufficient sugar to make it sweet and palatable. If you wish to have the cream iced,