TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 61 Baba—continued. Baba Cake.—(1) Sift 41b. of dried flour on to a marble or slate slab, put one quarter of it into a basin, and pour in the centre loz. of German yeast dissolved in 1 teacupful of warm water. Mix well, using the fingers onty, adding a little more water if required to make a stiff paste. Roll into the shape of a ball, put this in the basin again, score it across the top in the form of a cross, set the basin in a warm place, and let the dough rise for about ten minutes, or until it is quite light. Make a cavity in the centre of the 31b. of flour, add 2^1b. of butter, slightly warmed, |oz. of salt, £ teacupful of water, and fifteen eggs. Work the eggs and butter well together, then mix the whole into a paste, keeping it rather soft. In about five minutes, add six more eggs, singly, and work lightly with the hand for ten minutes, sprinkling 1 teaspoonful of powdered saffron over the dough, and mixing it in. Put 4oz. of Smyrna and 8oz. of Malaga raisins, 4oz. of cleaned currants, and a small quantity each of mixed candied peels, cut into thin slices, into a basin, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of Madeira wine, and 3 wineglassfuls of brandy or rum, whichever is preferred, and let the ingredients soak for a few minutes. Mix them all in with the paste, using the hand lightly, and let the preparation stand for a few minutes. Put a strip of paper about 3in. above the rim of a well-buttered mould, put in the mixture lightly to about three-quarters the height of the mould, set it in a warm place, and when the paste has risen to the top of the mould, put it in a slack oven on a trivet or stand, and bake until done, which will take about three hours. Turn it out carefully on to a sieve, and serve either hot or cold. Great care must he taken not to have the paste too thin Fig. 60. Baba Cake. or the fruit will fall to the bottom of the cake, and the effect will be lost. As the fruit in some cakes has a tendency to stick to the mould when cooked, the latter may be masked with a coating of the plain paste before putting the cake mixture in. (2) Take lib. of flour, sift it, and mix into a fourth of it *oz. of German yeast, having first mixed it in a little warm water, adding 1 pinch of salt. Put this in a pan in a warm place, so as to let it ferment into a sponge. Spread out the remainder of the flour, and work in lOoz. of butter and 2oz. of sugar, mixing together with seven eggs, and working it well with the hands for five minutes. When this is done, mix the two together if the sponge has sufficiently risen. A mould must now be buttered and lined with a thin coating of the paste. Mix with the remainder of the paste 3oz. of muscatel raisins, 2oz. of washed and dried currants, loz. of chopped-up candied peel, 1 wineglassful of brandy and the same quantity of rum, and fill in the centre. The Baba should then be set to rise gradually in a place where the temperature is moderate. As soon as it has risen sufficiently, place it in an oven upon a thick baking-sheet, with a roll of paper round the mould to prevent the Baba from receiving too much heat at first, and it should not acquire too much colour. About three-quarters-of-an-hour will suffice to bake it. (3) Have ready fib. of the best flour, 1 drachm of com- pressed yeast, and f gill of warm water; put 3oz. of the flour into a vessel, make a hollow in the centre, and in it For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Baba—co ntinued. lay the yeast and water; with the hands mix the yeast gently with the water for three minutes, then mix all together for three minutes more. Cover the vessel with a towol, and leave it in the warmest place in the kitchen (not on the stove), and after thirty minutes it will rise to twice the original size. Lay the remainder of the flour on the table, make a hollow in the centre, putting in it loz. of powdered sugar and four raw eggs ; mix the sugar and eggs with the hands ; then add 1 gill of cream and | gill of good Madeira wine; season with 1 drachm of very fine salt, and mix all with the flour for five minutes. Make a hollow in the centre again, and into this put 5oz. of good, fresh, softened butter; mix well again for two minutes. If the prepared yeast-dough be now raised to its proper height, mix the two pastes together for at least five minutes, return it to the vessel, and put it in the same warm place, covering as before. When rested one hour, have ready 2oz. of cleaned sultana raisins, 2oz. of cleaned and stoned valencias, and loz. of finely-chopped citron-peel. Grease with cold butter the inside of a cylindrical copper or tin mould large enough to hold 3 pints. If the mixed paste be now raised to twice the original size, mix in the raisins, currants, and citron-peel, stirring thoroughly for about five minutes; put it in the mould, and lay it in a warm place (not on the stove) for another twenty minutes; then place it in a moderate oven for one hour. When a good golden colour, remove, and let it cool slightly; place a round dish over the mould, turn it upside down, lift off the mould, and glaze the cake with a thin syrup. Decorate the top and dish with candied fruits, and send to the table. (4) Dissolve {oz. of yeast in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and add sufficient flour to make a sponge. Set it to rise. Beat ilb. each of butter and sugar to a cream, add ioz. of blanched and chopped bitter almonds, £lb. each of raisins and sultanas, the grated rind of two lemons, 1 pinch of salt, 1 saltspoonful of powdered mace, and the yolks of ten eggs. Now add another breakfast-cupful of milk, the remainder of the flour, and the sponge when raised, working the whole well until perfectly smooth, and adding lastly the whites of ten eggs beaten to a snow. Turn the mixture into a buttered Baba cake' mould, and bake. Turn it out when done, soak it in punch, ice it with chocolate or other icing, fill the cavity with preserved and dried fruits of all kinds, cut up into small pieces, and serve. Baba au Madere.—Prepare a Baba cake as described in No. 3, but do not glaze it. Slit the cake into halves, and remove the top piece. Pour 1 pint of cold water in a very clean pan, add Jib. of sugar and half a medium-sized lemon, place it on the stove, and boil well for three minutes; then remove, and at once add 1 gill of good sherry wine and l gill of cura5oa. Lay the top part of the cake in a round, flat-bottomed vessel. To avoid breaking it, a wire basket is recommended, with which it can be lowered carefully into the pan. Pour gradually over it the prepared sauce ; let it rest for two minutes, then replace it carefully on top of the other half of the cake. Arrange it nicely on a dessert serving dish, garnish tastefully with candied cherries, and decorate the border with thin slices of candied pine-apple. Baba with Vanilla Cream Sauce.—Prepare a Baba cake. When removed from the mould, and laid on a dish, cut it into six equal parts. Take 6oz. of apricot marmalade, and proceed as follows: take one piece of cake in the left hand, and, with a knife in the right, cover both sides, where cut, with the marmalade. When finished, arrange the six pieces together on the dish, and give them the same form as before. To be eaten with vanilla cream sauce. Hot BclbcL Cake.—Put lib. 3oz. of flour on a baking-sheet in the oven, dry it, and pass through a fine sieve into a basin. Put a quarter of this into another basin, and mix it up with ioz. of yeast and 1 wineglassful of lukewarm milk ; when well mixed, put the basin in a warm place for this to rise. Form a hollow in the centre of the rest of the flour, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls each of cream and sifted, crushed loaf sugar, four eggs, 6oz. of warmed butter, and a small pinch of salt. Work well with the hand until thoroughly mixed and quite smooth, then add singly four more eggs, working one well in before another is added. Add 4|oz. more butter, pulled into small pieces, and work this in for about Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads.