THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 64 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Bacon—continued. The foregoing list of parts is quite sufficient guide for use in ordering Bacon of the merchant; and as good Bacon is not always to be purchased near home, the above plan should be found very useful in obtaining supplies from a distance. There are so many uses to which Bacon is applied by cooks, that it will be repeatedly mentioned through- out the receipts contained in these pages—in many cases as an incidental savoury; but there are a few conditions in which it forms the basis of a dish, and these are described in their place. To Prepare Bacon for Breakfast. — Procure fine, fresh Bacon, and with a keen knife cut the under-bones off; pare both edges neatly, also the end (the opposite side to the string which hangs it up). With the help of the same sharp knife, cut the necessary number of slices desired for immediate use, and no more. Thin slices are always preferable, so that the Bacon, whether broiled or fried, will be crisp and tasty. When cutting off the slices, be careful to avoid detaching them from the skin; also cut them crosswise, but never lengthwise. Arrange the slices on the broiler, and broil over a moderate fire for two minutes on each side ; dress the slices on a hot dish, and serve immediately. Four minutes will suffice for frying. See that the Bacon is kept hanging by the string in a dry, cool place, but do not put it on ice. Bacon and Eggs.—(1) To prepare these nicely, the rashers of Bacon, cut thin—slices of the back are best—must be trimmed of all bone, rind, and smoked part, and put into a hot enamelled frying-pan, or one that is bright and scrupulously clean. The Bacon is then to be cooked nicely brown without burning, and care taken that the fat especially shall not “catch.” When the Bacon is laid on a dish and popped into the oven, the shells of the eggs must be carefully broken so as not to break the yolks, and put into a cup—a shallow saucer is perhaps better, as being less likely to burst the yolk by the fall from the shell into the deep cup. Each egg should be broken and kept separately ; first, because a bad one would spoil the others (shop eggs, when really fresh, are quite good enough for this mode of cooking them); and secondly, because a fair share of white will then be apportioned to each yolk. As each egg is added to those in the frying-pan, the white about it should be allowed to set before adding another. Baste them with the hot fat, trim, and put one on each piece of Bacon. Sometimes mashed potatoes are served round the dish. (2) Break several eggs, one at a time, and put them in a dish, close up in front of a fierce fire. Toast over these slices of streaky Bacon, allowing all the drippings to fall upon the eggs. By the time sufficient Bacon is cooked, the eggs should be done. Lay the Bacon about the eggs, and serve together. Bacon-fat is declared by all cooks to be the best medium for frying such tasty foods as onions for curry, also for frying liver, and veal cutlets. Slices of bread fried in Bacon-fat make an excellent breakfast dish. The crusts should be trimmed off, and the bread fried a light brown, peppered, and served quite hot, garnished with parsley. Bacon-fat Salad Dressing.—Take 2 table-spoonfuls of Bacon- or pork-fat, 1 table-spoonful of flour, 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon- juice, k teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 1 tea- spoonful of mustard, two eggs, J breakfast-cupful of water, and i breakfast-cupful of vinegar. Have the fat hot. Add the flour, and stir until smooth, but not brown. Add the water, and boil up once. Place the saucepan in a bain-marie, or in another saucepan partly filled with boiling water. Bacon—continued. Have the eggs and seasoning beaten together. Add the vinegar to the boiling mixture, and stir in the beaten egg. Cook four minutes, stirring briskly all the time. Cool, and use. If put into bottles and corked tightly, this will keep in a cool place, and forms a very pleasant addition to a salad. Bacon with Macaroni.—Put 2oz. of broken macaroni into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of well-seasoned stock, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until it is quite tender, which will take about an hour; but it should be fre- quently tried, to prevent its being overdone or pulpy. Add 2oz. of streaky Bacon, boiled and cut up into small squares, and a small piece of butter. Toss the pan over the fire for a few minutes, season with salt and pepper, turn the pre- paration out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Bacon Omelet.—Put Jib. of finely-minced lean Bacon into a frying-pan with a little butter or lard, and fry it until done. Have ready a sufficient number of eggs, well beaten with salt and pepper, and stir them into the Bacon. When the omelet is cooked, take it out carefully, put it on a dish, and serve with piquant sauce, either in a sauceboat or poured round it. Bacon Salad.—Cut about Jib. of slices of fat Bacon into small squares, put them into a frying-pan, and fry them till lightly browned. Bemove the pan from the fire, and mix in with the Bacon one-third vinegar to two-thirds Bacon- oil. Prepare a salad by chopping up whatever greenmeats happen to be obtainable, season it, and pour the Bacon sauce over it; if the pieces of Bacon are not wanted, strain the sauce through a strainer. Beaten eggs may be mixed with the Bacon-fat if according to taste: they should be stirred into it over the fire till the dressing is thick, then let the mixture cool before pouring it over the salad. Bacon and Spinach.—Line a pudding-basin with thin slices of raw Bacon, trimmed so as to be all of one size, and let them be arranged symmetrically. Take some boiled spinach, ready chopped for table, and seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper; also some boiled carrots, turnips, and small onions cut into Jin. squares. Whip up the yolk of an egg with pepper and salt, and mix the carrots and turnips up with the egg and seasoning. Now arrange the squares of vegetables alternately and thickly amongst the slices of Bacon, and fill up the centre of the dish with spinach. When the basin is full, cover over with more slices of Bacon, and put into a saucepan partially filled with boiling water, not deep enough to boil over, and steam for an hour. Turn out into a flat dish, and serve with a rich brown gravy. Boiled Bacon.—(1) Before putting the piece of Bacon selected into the pot, it is advisable to soak it for some hours. This will remove superfluous salt, and enable the meat to soften and swell. Cut off any part that looks rusty, and scrape the flesh side quite clean. Put the piece into cold water, lot it come very slowly to the boiling-point, and then simmer gently until done. The time required may be calculated as twenty-five minutes for each pound, and twenty-five minutes over. When done, let it get cold in the liquor in which it has boiled, placing a folded cloth under the lid to keep in the steam. Peel off the skin (which may go into the stockpot, if you have one), and sprinkle the fat side freely with grated crust or browned breadcrumbs, which may be made by baking scraps of bread in the oven until brown, and then crushing them with a rolling-pin. Boiled Bacon can, when cold, be glazed by brushing it over with a solution of loz. of gelatine in 1 gill of warm water. Some- times well-boiled ribbon vermicelli, after being thoroughly boiled, is cut into ornamental shapes and laid on the Bacon before glazing. (2) Should the required piece of Bacon be very salt, it should first be soaked in cold water for several hours. Bemove any rusty or discoloured uneatable pieces, scrape the underneath parts, put it into a saucepan of water over a slow fire, and let it gradually come to the boiling-point. Bemove the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, and simmer slowly until the Bacon is quite tender. The time allowed for boiling Bacon is about twenty-five minutes for each pound, and if a big piece, about twenty minutes longer. When the Bacon is done, take it out, skin it, and sprinkle the fat over witli bread-raspings. (3) Wash and scrape about 31b. of Bacon cut from the back or ribs, plunge it into a saucepan of water, and boil it