THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 16 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. AMBROSIA (Food for the Gods).—The nearest approach to Ambrosia is a combination of sweet oranges and pineapples, sliced very thin, layered alternately, sugared well with caster sugar, wetted with Madeira wine, and with a dusting of sugar over all. Ornamented with small shapes cut out of crystallised angelica, this makes a beautiful dish. Tinned pineapple answers well. The following is a splendid receipt:— Skin sufficient oranges, and remove all pith and seeds; cut into thin slices, and place a layer of them on a glass dish; dust over well with caster sugar, and moisten with maraschino and brandy mixed in equal proportions. Spread ever this a layer of desiccated cocoanut, and then lay over that thin slices of pared fresh or tinned pineapple, dusting with sugar and moistening as before. Continue piling up these alternate layers, graduating into a conical shape, and sprinkling cocoa- nut after each layer of either fruit. Decorate with dried cherries and shapes cut out of candied angelica, and top up with whipped cream. Garnish the dish round with croutons of sweet jelly, and here and there a little chopped jelly, coloured if convenient. AMBROSIA SYRUP.—A mixture of equal parts of vanilla and strawberry syrups. AMERICAN BEER.—The brewing of Beer has rapidly increased of late years in the United States, the varieties most in demand being a sort of Lager and Golden Ale, introduced by enterprising Germans. Its percentage of alcohol is low, but as it is bright, spark- ling, has a good head, and is retailed icy cold, it suits the dry climate of America. Other Ales on the British prin- ciple— bitter and strong — are brewed in the country, but are not so greatly in demand; and black or dark brown Beers, such as Porter and Stout, find little or no favour. AMERICAN BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. AMERICAN CHEESE.—See Cheese. AMERICAN DISHES.—The culinary products of the United States differ very slightly from those of the “old country,” and that more in the materials than in the mode or style of preparing. Maize, or Indian corn, ripe (whole or ground) and in the green ear, occupies an important position amongst American cooks. Pumpkins^ Melons, Bananas, and Tams, are indigenous. Okra is a vegetable unknown to us, except by importation; it makes a delicious mucilaginous soup, commonly styled Okra Gumbo. Hickory Nuts are largely used in confectionery. Candies, Buckwheat Cakes, Chow-Chow, Pan-Dowdy, Pumpkin-pie, Popcorn, and Dougli-nuts, and more recently Chewing-gum, are held in high favour. Amongst birds are the Canvas-back Duck (a great delicacy). Mallard, Prairie Chicken, Reed-bird, and the indigenous Turkey; and of fish there are the Bass, Sheep’s-head, and Blue- fish, besides the famous Clams of “Clam-chowder” cele- brity, and Terrapins. These will be further described under their various names. AMERICAN DRINKS. — It is not our purpose to detail the eccentric combinations which are so highly esteemed by thirsty American epicures, as hitherto efforts to make them popular in this country have failed. With the exception of Iced Soda Creams flavoured with fruit syrups, we shall do well to rest satisfied with our present productions. In some of the liquor-bars of the States are to be found praiseworthy efforts to combine nourish- ment with stimulants, such as Lactarts, Egg Phosphates, Acid Phosphates, Moxie’s Nerve Foods, hot Beef Tea, Chicken Tea, and other refreshing and invigorating fluids, for many of which we have our British counterparts. But where the American asserts his superiority is in the nomenclature of his drinks. Punch, in several forms, is familiar to us ; but “ Spread Eagle ” Punch, “ Thirty- second Regiment ” Punch, “ Light Guard ” Punch, “ Rocky Mountain” Punch, “Tip Top” Punch, “Bimbo” Punch, American Drinks—continued. “Duke of Norfolk” Punch, and “Uncle Toby” Punch, would be innovations. Amongst the “ Noggs ” America holds its own; but the “Julep” is said to be peculiarly an American beverage, and is more popular than any other. It was introduced into England by Captain Marryat, who wrote of it thus: “I must descant a little upon the Mint Julep, as it is, with the thermometer at lOOdeg., one of the most delightful and insinuating potations that ever was invented, and may be drunk with equal satisfaction when the thermometer is as low as TOdeg. There are many varieties, such as those composed of claret, madeira, &c.; but the ingredients of the real Mint Julep are as follows. I learnt how to make them, and succeeded pretty well. “ Put into a tumbler about a dozen sprigs of the tender shoots of mint (see Fig. 19), upon them put a table-spoonful of pounded white sugar (caster sugar), and equal proportions of peach and common brandy, so as to fill it up one-third, or perhaps a little less. Then take rasped or pounded ice, and fill up the tumbler. Epicures rub the lips of the tumbler with a piece of fresh pineapple, and the tumbler itself is very often incrusted outside with sta- lactites of ice. As the ice melts, you drink. I once overheard two ladies talk- ing in the next room to me, and one of them said : ‘Well, if I have a weak- ness for any one thing, it is for a Mint Julep ! ’—a very amiable weakness, and proving her good sense and good taste. Mint Juleps are, in fact, like the American ladies, irresistible.” The “ Smash ” is a Julep on a small plan. The “ Cobbler ” is claimed to be of American origin, but it is said to be a favourite now in all warn climates; perhaps, because it requires but little skill to manufacture. The “ Cock- tail ” is par excellence American; so also is the “ Crusta,” which is said to be an improvement on the “Cocktail.” Jerry Thomas, the celebrated “bar-tender” of New York, gives the following receipt for a “ Crusta ”: First mix a Brandy Cock- tail thus : Three or four dashes of gum syrup, three or four dashes of bitters, 1 wineglassful of brandy, one or two dashes of cura9oa, squeeze of lemon-juice, fill glass one-third full of ice, strain into a fancy wine- glass, throw a piece of lemon-peel on top, and add more lemon-juice. Now take a fancy red wineglass, rub a sliced lemon around the rim of the same and dip it in pulverised sugar, so that the sugar will adhere to the edge of the glass. Pare half a lemon the same as you would an apple (all in one piece), so that the paring will fit in the wineglass, and strain the Crusta (see Fig. 20) from the tumbler into it. Then smile. Fig. 20. A Crusta.