TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 17 D & E For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. American Drinks—continued. “Mulls” and “ Sangai-ees,” “Toddies” and “Slings,” Flip,” “ Negus,” “Bishop,” and “Shrub,” are common, and may be classed as importations or “ settlers ”; but “Fixes” and “Sours” are indigenous. It is not until we get to the “ fancy ” drinks that the American’s inventive genius and “ tall talk ” distinguish themselves. When we are invited to partake of a “ Pousse 1’Amour,” “ Sleeper,” “Balaklava Nectar,” “Crimean Cup,” “Tom and Jerry,” “ White Tiger’s Milk,” “ White Lion,” “ Locomotive,” Fio. 21. Mixing American Drink, Blue Blazer. “ Archill shop,” “ Cardinal,” “ Pope,” “ Knickerbocker,” “ Rumfustian,” “Bottled Velvet,” “Blue Blazer,” “Stone Juice,” “Gin Straight,” “Fixed Bayonets,” “Elephant’s Milk,” “ Widow’s Tears,” “ Corpse Reviver,” and many others equally suggestive, our ideas of moderation betray us. The art of mixing some of these depends upon the skill with which the mixer can empty one glass into another from a height (see Fig. 21). AMERICAN MEAT,— The trade in Meat ex- ported in refrigerating chambers from the United States has assumed great proportions, and the. produce gives general satisfaction to the cook, both in quality and price. It differs slightly from our fresh meats, but according to good authority the quality is not dete- riorated by the freezing process to which it is subjected. The market price is considerably below that of our own. The question of imported preserved Meats is fully dis- cussed under Australian Meat, to which any remarks made apply more emphatically, in consideration of the much longer time required in transit. See Food-pre- serving. AMERICAN OVENS.—In small kitchens, or for the purpose of cooking diminutive dishes, such as bacon or a sheep’s heart, this utensil is very convenient, as it will accomplish before a very small fire what no other oven would do with a similar degree of heat. It is in many respects the counterpart of what is generally known as the Dutch oven, although it has some advantages American Ovens—continued. of construction that the Dutch oven does not generally possess. The American Oven is fitted with a shelf as well as an inclined floor, and concentrates the heat very fully Fig. 22. American Oven. without being set nearer than a foot to the fire; and it is not an absolute necessity that the fire should be glowing or free from flame. Made of tin or thin sheet iron, its cost is very small in comparison with its useful- ness. Meat cooked in it requires care and attention, and frequent basting and turning. AMERICAN WHITE-CAKE.—See Cakes. AMERICAN WINES.—During the past few years America has produced a large quantity of Wines of vari- able quality; and it is confidently asserted and believed by Americans that the time is not far distant when America will assert her pre-eminence as a Wine-pro- ducing country, and that her vineyards will yield finer Wines, and in greater quantities, than France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and all other European coimtries combined. This may be but an idle boast, but it is certain that over 25,000,000 galls, are now produced annually, and that with a very small proportion of acreage under grape plantation. It is remarkable that, except in California, none of the European vines will succeed; hence, according to Professor Simmonds, the American vintners are “compelled to search in their forests, and develop in nurseries and vineyards, the varieties which are, in the future, to be their reliance for competing with foreign producers.” Wine made from the Catawba grape is amongst the best and most popular, and of this the native poet Longfellow sang :—- The richest and best Is the Wine of the West, That grows by the beautiful river, Whose sweet perfume Fills all the room With a benison on the giver. Very good, in its way, Is the Verzenay, Or the Sillery, soft and creamy; But Catawba Wine Has a taste more divine— More dulcet, delicious, and dreamy. Whether American Wines are ever likely to supersede European in universal favour it is not possible to say: at present the country consumes nearly all it can produce, and the importation of foreign Wines has fallen in the last ten years from 7,000,000 galls, to less than half that quantity.