26 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Apples— continued. Codlin, large and early, and an excellent fruit; August to October. Lord Suffield, large, white, soft, and excellent for sauce or tarts ; August and September. Manx’s Codlin, one of the finest and most useful; September and October. Mere de Menage, large and good; October to March. New (or Winter) Hawthornden, very large and excellent, one of the best for sauce and cooking; November to January. Nonsuch, large and juicy, unequalled for sauce and cooking; August to October. Norfolk Beefing, large and good-flavoured, an excellent keeper, most useful for baking whole and preserving; November to July. Norfolk Greening, rather acid, keeps till April and May. Small’s Admirable, large, crisp, sweet, and juicy; November to January. Tower of Glammis, yellow, large, square-shaped, crisp, and excellent; February to May. Waltham Abbey Seedling, large; November and December. Warner’s King, large, handsome, and good; November to March. Worcestershire Pearmain, large, conical, of a very brilliant colour, crisp and juicy; August to October. York- shire Greening, large, juicy, and tender; November to January. For Dessert or Cooking'.—Brabant Bellefleur, large, round, pale yellow, red streaked, most useful for cooking; November to April. Court Pendu Plat, rich russet-brown, of first-rate Fig. 30. Dessert or Cooking Apple, Court Pendu Plat. quality; November to April; see Fig. 30. Early Harvest, juicy and pleasantly sharp; July to September. Lady Henniker, yellow, with crimson streaks near the sun, highly flavoured, and with a pleasant perfume; February to May. Winter Quoining (or Queening), very bright, almost red, flavour excellent; November to May. Wormsley Pippin, excellent quality, large, and pale green; September and October. There was at one time a very fine kind of cooking Apple sold in this country, called Costards, from which the term “costermonger,” or seller of Costards, is derived; they are not met with now, having been superseded by other varieties. Pippins have ever been favourites, especially for dessert, and Shakespeare makes Sir Hugh Evans say, in “ The Merry Wives of Windsor”; “ I will make an end of my dinner; There’s pippins and cheese to come.” Cheese is sometimes eaten with Apple Pie in these days of gastronomic enlightenment. The addition of Apples to some foods adds a wonderful zest to their appetising qualities. For instance, with pork and goose, Apple Sauce is an essential of the gourmet’s table; and in some parts of the country a farmer’s dinner would be incomplete without Apple Pie or Pudding. But there are many capital receipts in which Apples form the most prominent item, and a selection of these will be found in their place. Cider is manufactured largely in Apple-growing comities, by grinding down the fruit to a pulp, and pressing and squeezing out the juice, which is then fermented by the addition of yeast. It is a brisk and pleasing acid drink, and although variable in alcoholic strength, is not usually found much more intoxicating than small beer. The nutritive value of Apples is very small, probably less than that of rice; but their piquant acid flavour and ready adaptability to all sorts of culinary purposes render them of illimitable value to the cook. The best Apples for use are those which are freshly picked, but those imported from America and the colonies in tubs are generally good cookers and soimd. Dried Apples are Apples—continued. to be found in the market under the name of Norfolk “Beau-fines” (corrupted to “Biffins”) and Normandy - Pippins; they are dried whole under heavy weights: those supplied in chips and slices are dried by exposure to heat. In this state they can be kept in stock, and are very serviceable, seeing how readily they absorb moisture in place of that which has been driven out of them by evaporation. Tinned Apples are not so well flavoured as the dried kinds. American Crab Apples are sometimes used by con- fectioners ; they resemble red cherries in size and appear- ance, and make pretty decorations and good compotes. Apple and Almond Pudding1.—Peel and core a dozen or so of cooking Apples, put them into a saucepan with a little water, and cook them to a pulp. Put this at the bottom of a buttered basin or mould, and let it cool. Put 5oz. ol blanched almonds into a mortar with an equal weight of crushed loaf sugar, pound them well, and mix in the well- beaten yolks of seven eggs, the strained juice and grated rind of a lemon, and 1 table-spoonful of flour to thicken it. When these are incorporated, add the whites of the seven eggs beaten to a stiff froth, turn the whole into the basin or mould over the Apples, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for about half-an-hour, when the pudding should be of a light brown. Take it out when done, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with sweet sauce. Apples in Apricot Jam.—Pare and carefully core a couple of dozen small Reinette Apples, and cut them into slices about the thickness of a halfpenny-piece. Put a layer of apricot jam on a dish, cover over with a layer of Apples, and con- tinue in this way to form a dome. Sprinkle it over freely with caster sugar, glaze it in the oven, and serve. Apple and Apricot Meringue.—Pare and core a dozen or so Apples, cut them up into quarters, put them into a sauce- pan with 2oz. of sugar, and cook them until they are done and quite tender. Turn them out on to a sieve over a basin to strain off all the juice, then arrange them at the bottom of a dish, put a layer of apricot jam over them, spread over the whites of five eggs whipped to a snowy froth, dust this over with caster sugar, and put the dish in a moderate oven for a few minutes to dry the egg froth. Take it out before it colours, and serve. Apple Bavaroise.—Peel and cut into quarters 41b. of sweet Apples, and put them into a preserving'-pan; add the juice of two lemons, 2 wineg'lassfuls of sherry, ^lb. of caster sugar, and loz. of isinglass dissolved in 1 gill of warm water and strained. Place the pan over a moderate fire, stirring the contents occa- sionally with a wooden spoon. Stew until the Apples are quite tender, and then rub the lot through a tammy sieve into a kitchen basin. Place this upon ice, and stir slowly until upon the point of setting, when 1 pint of whipped cream must be stirred in, and the whole poured into a mould. Turn out when sot, and serve. A wineglassful of maraschino or noyeau adds considerably to the richness of the flavour. Apple and Blackberry Jam.—See Blackberries. Apple Brandy.—A spirit made wholesale in the United States from Apples, and more familiarly known as Apple Jack. To 5 barrels of good rectified spirit add lgall. of syrup of gum arabic, lib. of oil of Apple, and Jib. of oil of pear. Let it remain for some time in the barrel, then stir well, and filter. Apple Bread.—Put ljlb. of coarsely-broken lump sugar into a round-bottomed pan with 1£ pints of water, and boil to crack (see Sugar-boiling). Have ready, peeled, cored, and sliced thin, about twenty-four good cooking Apples, and when the syrup is ready put these in, stirring continuously until the whole is a thick marmalade. Then take it off the fire, and pour into a well-buttered, round mould with a central hollow, and let it remain until cold. It must be well shaken—not pressed—down into the mould. When firm, turn upside down. Fill the central depression with whipped cream, and pour over the following: 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly melted over heat, with the addition of 2 wineglassfuls of rum. Other embellishments may suggest themselves to the artist. Apple Butter.—In some parts of the world—notably America and Germany—special parties are gathered together to mako