144 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads Biscuits—continued. of lemon, and make into a dough, with three eggs and as much water as may be required. Make this into Biscuits by rolling and cutting, and bake quickly. Light Biscuits.—(1) Bub into 2qts. of flour 1 large table- spoonful of lard and the same quantity of butter, salt to taste, and 1 teaspoonful of soda. Make into a soft dough with butter-milk. Cut this into convenient shapes and set on buttered tins to bake quickly. (2) Boil four large Irish potatoes, and while hot mash them with a piece of lard the size of an egg; add 1 tea- cupful each of milk and fresh yeast, stir in enough flour to make a good batter, and set it to rise. It will take about 2qts. of flour. When light, make up the dough, adding more water or milk if required. Boll thick, cut into shapes, let these rise, and then bake in a very quick oven. (3) Prepare a Biscuit batter with a little lard rubbed into 21b. of flour and 1 pint of butter-milk, or sufficient to make the dough quite soft. Form it into Biscuits, bake these in a moderate oven, and let them get cold before using. Luncheon Biscuits. — Into 5Jlb. of flour rub 6oz. of lard and 6oz. of butter; make a bay and mix in 21b. of caster sugar, and make into a dough with 1 pint of milk and i pint of water. Mix in with the sugar 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and with the water 1 teaspoonful of hydrochloric acid. Let the dough be stiff, and break it well with the Biscuit- break (see Fig. 149). Boll out thin, and cut out pieces with round or oval cutter. Leave these covered over in a warm place to rise, and when they look puffy, put on buttered baking-sheets in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Madrid Biscuits.—Put 2oz. of dissolved butter into a basin with loz. of orange-zest, the yolks of six eggs, and 2 table- spoonfuls of brandy ; mix vigorously for about twelve minutes, using a whisk; add 12oz. of ground oswego, and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. Make this at once into a stiff paste, shape it into small twists, arrange these on well-buttered baking-sheets, brush them over lightly with egg, put them in a sharp oven, and bake. Take them out when done, and use hot or cold. Magnum Bonum Biscuits.—Put the yolks of fourteen eggs into one basin and the whites into another, keeping the latter in a cool place until wanted. Add lib. of finely-sifted pounded loaf sugar and 1 pinch of salt to the yolks, also a little flavouring either of vanilla, orange, or lemon; beat well for about twenty minutes, or until the batter becomes quite creamy in appearance. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, work them in with the yolk mixture, stirring very lightly, and add gradually 4Voz. each of flour and potato-flour, adding a little at a time. Put the mixture into a pastry-bag or forcer and squeeze out lumps the size of half plums; stick two of these together with plum or damson jam, cover them with more of the jam, glaze them with coloured transparent icing, using carmine mixed with a very little ultramarine blue so as to obtain a natural plum colour; let the Biscuits get dry, and with a fine camel’s-hair brush and finely-powdered sugar give them the bloom necessary to imitate plums. Dry them thoroughly, and they are ready for use. Marseillaise Biscuits.—These favourite little Biscuits are made thus: Bub 7oz. of butter into 31b. of flour mixed with 21b. of caster sugar ; make a bay and put in i teaspoonful of finely-powdered carbonate of ammonia, adding after, gradu- ally, five eggs well beaten together. Make a stiff dough with milk, and break. Boll out in thin strips, and cut off pieces the size of marbles ; put about twenty or thirty of these at a time into a hair sieve and roll them about like pills to make them round. Bake in a quick oven on dry tins. Naples Biscuits.—(1) These are so universally known as “ Biscuits ” that although they would be more correctly classified under the heading of “ Cakes ” it is considered advis- able to insert here the receipts for their preparation. Put lib. of loaf sugar with 1 gill of water into a small stewpan or round- bottomed boiler, and let it dissolve and come to the boil to make a syrup. Whisk eight eggs, pour in the syrup gently, and continue the whisking until very light. When it is quite cold, sprinkle in a little over lib. of flour, and stir it with the whisk until quite smooth. Have ready some Naples Biscuit-frames which are about 8in. long, 3in. broad, and lin. deep. In these the partitions are upright, and they Biscuits—continued. must be papered neatly. Put the mixture into the frames, and fill them well; bake in a good oven, but not too hot. Dust them over with caster sugar before baking. (2) The following ingredients and quantities may be used instead of the above : 111b. each of flour and finely-powdered sugar, nine eggs, and £ pint of rose-water. Beat the eggs well, put the rose-water in by degrees, then mix the flour and sugar together, and fill the frames. Nonpareil Biscuits.—Bub 3oz. of fresh lard into 2Vlb. of flour until it all crumbles; make a bay or well in the centre, and put in lflb. of fine moist or caster sugar, loz. of finely- and freshly-powdered ammonia, and make into a dough with milk ; do not work it more than is required to thoroughly mix the ingredients. Boll and cut out pieces the size and thick- ness of a penny, and wash the top with milk; have some “hundreds and thousands” or “nonpareil” sweets spread on the table, lift each Biscuit on a spatula and turn it over into the sweets. When they are sufficiently covered with the sweets, lift again and turn over on to slightly-greased tins. Bake in a moderately quick oven. Nursery Biscuits. — (1) These very useful but old-fashioned additions to the infant dietary can be prepared satisfactorily only in the following manner: Dissolve 3oz. of German yeast in lqt. of warm milk in which 5oz. of finely-powdered loaf sugar has been previously dissolved; stir into this 1 tea- cupful of flour, and let it work until it not only rises to a big head, but drops again; then stir in -Jib. of Bermuda arrowroot, and rub 5oz. of butter into 2 double-handfuls of flour until it has crumbled away. Make a well (or bay, as it is technically called) of the flour in a large crock or basin, into which put the ferment previously prepared, and work the whole into a good stiff dough, adding more flour if re- quired. Break carefully; return to the crock after flouring well; cover with a cloth, and set aside to rise, or prove. When it has become light and spongy it is ready for use. Now weigh off 41b. batches of the dough, and roll each one out on the paste-slab, or board, with a plain pin to lin. thick- ness, and cut out the Biscuits with a round cutter about 1 jin. or 2in. in diameter. Set the Biscuits as they are cut out a little way apart on lightly-greased baking-sheets, cover them over, and let them prove before the fire or in a steam press; and when they have risen well, put them into a quick oven and bake a good brown. Let the oven cool, and when only warm put the Biscuits back again to dry; they will then keep well and be very digestible. (2) Dissolve 1 loz. of German yeast in -j- pint of warm water and stir it into 21b. of flour; allow this to work to a fine head. When this ferment ceases to rise, stir into it quickly lib. of butter warmed to an oil, and then add lib. of finely-powdered sifted sugar (caster sugar is better) and 3 pints of warm milk. Stir this mixture freely for a little time, and then work in by degrees sufficient fine flour, dredged or sifted, to produce a firm dough, and leave it in the basin to rise. Put this under the Biscuit-break for a time, then divide into pieces the size of a fowl’s egg, and shape with the hands till like buns. Flatten them a little as you lay them on a lightly- greased baking-tin, cover them with a cloth, and let them prove well before the fire until they are considerably puffed up; then brush them lightly over with a brush or feather dipped in milk, prick the top of each five times with a skewer, and set to bake in a quick oven. When thoroughly cooked and a rich brown, remove them, and place in a screen to dry; or, let the oven get cool, and replace them in it until they are crisp. They can be stored in tins for use. To prepare these for food, put one in a basin and pour a little boiling water over it, and as it soaks the Biscuit will swell up; when quite soaked, pour the water off, add J tea- spoonful of caster sugar, beat up well with a fork, and it is then ready. Patience Biscuits.—Beat up with a strong whisk the whites of six eggs, adding by degrees as the mixture stiffens fib. of caster sugar. Dredge in whilst stirring lightly 1 table- spoonful of tine pastry-flour and 20 drops of essence of cinnamon. When thoroughly mixed, fill a Biscuit forcing-bag (see Fig. 153) with a small-sized tin funnel, lay out on a slightly-buttered baking sheet in long fingers, sift sugar over through a very fine sieve, and set in a screen or almost cold