23 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Angels on Horseback—continued. thick, toast it, and cut it into squares about l jin. each way. Spread upon these toasts some anchovy butter. Lay an oyster (or two, if they are small) upon the centre of each, and season with a dust of cayenne. Upon the oyster lay a piece of fat bacon, cut very thin and patted flat with a knife, so as to prevent it from curling when cooking ; upon the bacon put a little chopped parsley, and a small squeeze of lemon-juice. Set these on a baking-sheet, and put them in the oven to bake. When hot, dish upon an ornamented dish- paper or neatly-folded napkin, and serve. (3) Roll the oysters in the bacon, and secure by transfixing with a large needle. Otherwise treat the same as No. 2. ANGOSTURA HITTERS. — Although the first manufacture of this now famous appetiser dates back to the early part of the present century, its introduction to this country is quite recent. The tonic was invented by one Dr. Liegert, of Angostura, for his own use; but his friends soon assisted him to make it famous. Angostura Bitters is aromatic, stomachic, and digestive, and probably contains a preparation of the Galipca cusp aria, or Angos- tura bark, as well as a proportion of chamomile flowers, cardamoms, cinnamon, and orange-peel. A few drops in a glass of dry sherry form a splendid tonic. ANIMAIi WINES.—The value to delicate stomachs of soups, jellies, and other nourishing foods, combined with wine or some other stimulant, has long been recognised; but, according to a recent writer (Professor Simmonds on “Popular Beverages”), it is to the Chinese that we are indebted for the suggestion. He says: “ Among these [beverages] are Mutton Wine, Dog Wine, Deer and Deer-horn Wine, Snake Wine, and Tortoise Wine. To assure purchasers that the article is genuine, a strip of the skin of the animal is fastened to the top of the containing vessel. These animal substances are macerated in fermented or distilled liquors [Another authority tells us that the flesh was first macerated, and then fermented; both may be right.—Ed.], and by the Chinese nearly all portions of animals thus prepared are supposed to be efficacious in the treatment of disease”— Kidney Wine for kidney disease, Liver Wine for livers, Heart Wine for hearts, Brain Wine for brains, &c. “ The officinal Mutton Wine is, in fact, goat’s flesh,” he facetiously adds, “ these two animals (sheep and goat) being often confounded. It is a sweet and unctuous liquor, and believed to be a great restorer of the constitution. The alcoholic percentage is over 9. Sugar, raisins, almonds, litchi fruit, and skim-milk, enter into its composition.” See Koumiss. ANIMELLES.—This is a dish very little known in England or France, but much esteemed in Italy, both in Naples and Rome. Animelles are only to be found in entire male sheep. Pried Animelles.— Remove the skin that covers eight or ten Animelles, cut them lengthwise in quarters, put into a basin, dredge over with salt, and let them stand to macerate for ten minutes or so, by which time all the moisture will be extracted. Take up the pieces a few at a time, dredge over with flour, plunge into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until they are done and hard inside. Take them out, drain, wipe gently with a cloth, sprinkle over with salt, arrange on a napkin folded on a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. ANISE (Fr. Anis; Ger. Gemeiner Anis).—An aromatic herb of the Pimpinella tribe. The essential oil is used as a flavouring in confectionery The best only should be used, as common kinds are largely adulterated with the oil of Star Anise, which, although from quite another plant, possesses the aromatic qualities of the Anise, but in a much less delicate form. ANISEED.—The seed of Anise from which Oil of Aniseed is made. Aniseed Bread. — Stir -)-lb. of caster sugar with the yolks of ten eggs until frothy; add to this loz. of bruised Aniseed, Aniseed—continued. and work in lOoz. of best flour. Make into a dough, and form into rolls, setting them on paper and putting them into a hot oven to bake. This bread is said to be especially good for children. Aniseed Cake.—Break five eggs in a basin, add lib. of sugar, beat well, then add gradually lib. of flour and 1 drachm of Essence of Aniseed; take small quantities up with a fork, and drop lightly on buttered baking-sheets, leaving a small space between each ; set in a warm place to rise for twenty-five minutes, and bake in a moderate oven. Aniseed Confits or Balls.— Put 21b. of Aniseed into a confit- pan, and pour over a mixture of thin liquid gum, worked up with flour until it is of a consistence that does not stick to the hand. Set the confit-pan in action, heating it with a little steam, and add slowly to the Aniseed mixture some boiling thin syrup, flavoured with oil of Aniseed, keeping the mixture moving while adding it, and allowing it to coat well before more is put on. Continue to add the syrup until the confits are of the required size, letting the action of the pan complete the process. Take them out, and they are ready for use. Common sugar should be used for the syrup ; and about six coatings of this will be sufficient to make Confits the size of peas. Aniseed Cordial.— This may be manufactured from either the bruised seed or the essential oil. Take 2oz. of Aniseed, or 1| drachms of the oil, macerate or dissove it in lgall. of proof spirit, and dissolve in that about 41b. of crushed loaf sugar. Reduce the whole by adding an equal quantity of cold water. The cordial must not be of a lower alcoholic strength than 45 under proof, or it will be cloudy. A strong syrup of 21b. of loaf sugar to the pint, made by dissolving the sugar in the water at a heat a little below boiling-point, may be used instead. Aniseed Lozenges.—Put 141b. of crushed loaf sugar on a marble slab, make a cavity in the centre, and pour in about Iqt. of strained gum mucilage, made in the proportion of 21b. weight of boiling water1 to each pound of gum arabic, or tragacanth. Mix in goz. of oil of Aniseed and a little extract of liquorice to colour, and work the whole well into a stiff paste. Put a small quantity of this on to another slab, and roll it out to the required thickness, using the ball of the band to smooth the surface. Brush it over gently, and cut it into shapes with an oval tin cutter. Put the lozenges on boards or trays dusted over with starch powder, let them get cold, and they are ready for use. Essence of Aniseed.— As a substitute for Aniseed when used as a flavouring, the essence is by some confectioners con- sidered to be greatly superior. It is prepared by dissolving one part of the oil of Anise in four parts of rectified spirits of wine. Shake the bottle, and keep it well stoppered. ANISETTE.—A French cordial made with Oil of Aniseed. Anisette Jelly -with Pears.—Cut six rather largo pears into six pieces each, boil them in some syrup, and colour with a few drops of prepared cochineal. Whisk over the fire, till boiling, 2oz. of gelatine, the whites of three beaten eggs, fib. of lump sugar, the juice of one lemon, and 2 j pints of water. Take this mixture off, let it cool, and then add J pint of Anisette. Drain the pears, and fill a plain cylinder mould with pears and jelly alternately. Pack the mould in ice, and when the jelly is solid (about two hours) turn out and send to table. ANKER.—This is the name given to a small cask or runlet, which was at one time much used in this country for wine, its measure being fixed at 8.1 galls. It is now in common use on the Continent, but varies in its capacity from 7-tgalls. to lOgalls. ANNATTO (sometimes spelt Annatta, Aimotta, Anotto, Arnatto, or Arnotto; Fr. Rocou, Roucou, or Roucoue; Ger. Orleans).—A harmless colouring matter obtained from the outer pellicle of the seeds of Bixa Orellana (see Fig. 26), an evergreen tree, indigenous to Cayenne and other parts of tropical America, and now cultivated for exportation in the East and West Indies.