THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 48 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Artichokes—con t inued. British gardens. In the privy-purse expenses of this king are several entries about Artichokes. Thus: “ Paied to a servant of Maister Tresorer in reward for bringing Archecokks to tho King’s Grace to Yorke place, iiij3 iiijd.” There are three kinds of Glohe Artichoke commonly cultivated; hut the variety with the green (not purplish) head is generally reckoned the best, and it is the largest. Before cooking they should be very carefully washed in several waters, and plunged into hot water with salt and soda. They require from twenty to twenty-five minutes’ fast boiling, and are served upon a vegetable-dish on a napkin or strainer. In France, where Globe Artichokes are very plentiful, they are eaten raw as a salad or relish. Dr. Delamere describes the proceeding thus: Tho eater makes upon Ms plate a mixture of pepper, oil, vinegar, and salt, commonly called a poivrade. He then takes the Artichoke in his left hand, holding it by the top or the tips of the leaves, and with the knife in his right hand he cuts suc- cessively from the bottom very thin slices, to each of which is attached a leaf; then holding the leaf between his finger and thumb, he dips the sliced bottom into the poivrade, and duly masticates it as he would uncooked celery, radishes, and the like, and it is not a bit more wholesome or digestible. The Flower, Glohe, or “Burr” Artichoke, as it is some- times called, is largely cultivated on the Continent, and is such a favourite food that the bottoms are sold ready Fig. 46. Methods of Preparing Globe Artichokes. boiled in some of the appropriate shops in Paris, simply covered by a cloth to keep them hot. In some parts of the Continent, these vegetables are so prolific as to be thrown away in large quantities; hut in Great Britain they are rarely cultivated, forming an expensive vegetable luxury of not sufficient delicacy to become popular at the price charged for them in our markets. To prepare the Globe Artichokes (Fig. 46, a) for cooking, it is necessary to trim off the stalks, and cut through the tops of the leaves (b, c). For plain serving, it is usual only to trim the bottoms and cut off the leaf-tips in this way; but the fibrous core, called the “choke,” may be removed by quartering (d, e), for which purpose the leaves must be cut off lower down than they would be for cooking whole (c). Dubois advises, when these quarters are thoroughly cleaned, that they should he rubbed with a lemon, and then half-boiled in acidulated, salted water. After draining, they are to be ranged in a flat stewpan, side by side, with a hit of butter popped in between them here and there. Add a little seasoning, and boil over a slow fire. Served with brown or white sauce, finished with chopped parsley and the juice of a lemon, it would be difficidt to find a nicer dish. The Continental cook avails himself of the cup-like shape to which the Artichoke bottoms may be trimmed (g) to use it as an elegant and appropriate receptacle Artichokes—continued. for little, highly-seasoned dainties, such as minces of game, and its shield-like appearance (/) renders it ex- ceedingly available for a garnish. It is not surprising then that amongst artistic cooks the Glohe Artichoke holds an important position. A few modes of cooking and serving these flowers are here described. Artichokes a la Barigoule.— (1) Cut off about fin. from the tops of four Artichokes, trim off a few of the leaves from the bottom and burn them. Wash them thoroughly, put into a saucepan with a good supply of slightly-salted water, and boil until quite tender. Take them out, drain, scoop out the fibrous insides, and squeeze perfectly dry. Put the tops of the leaves into a frying-pan with about 6 table-spoonfuls of oil, and fry them. Put (lb. of grated bacon into a saucepan with ioz. each of flour and butter, add 1 gill of prepared fine herbs, and pour over 1 teacupful of broth ; put the saucepan on the fire, and stir well for about five minutes. Place a quarter of this mixture into each Artichoke (previously seasoned with salt and pepper internally), cover the top or opening made to scoop out the inside with a thin slice of bacon about 2in. square, bind them round with string to keep them in position, put into a saute-pan with a breakfast-cupful of broth, set the pan in the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Arrange the cooked leaves on a dish, remove the string and bacon from the Artichokes, place them on the leaves, and serve. (2) Prepare, blanch, and parboil six Artichokes as above. Trim them, scoop out the insides or choke, and fill them up with a mixture of sifted breadcrumbs, savoury meat, parsley, truffles, mushrooms, and shallots, all chopped very fine and seasoned with salt and pepper. Arrange them close together at the bottom of a saucepan, on top of a little each of ham, bacon, carrots in slices, and sweet herbs, and pour over 1 wineglassful of Chablis or any other white wine. Cover over the saucepan, set it on the fire, and cook the Artichokes until quite tender. Take them out when done, arrange on a dish, strain the liquor into another saucepan, thicken it with a little baked flour, strain it again, pour it round the Artichokes, and serve. Artichokes Boiled Plain.—(1) Cut off the tips of the leaves (Pig. 4G, c) and round off the bottoms, removing the stalk and trimming the under-leaves away. Soak in salt- and-water, washing well. Throw them into boiling salt- and-water, and let them boil fast until quite tender. The leaves come away readily when they are done. Boiling in a large quantity of water is advisable, as it helps to rid them of a certain bitterness to which they are liable, especially in the autumn. It is advisable when the Artichokes are cooked to drain upon a cloth, and then remove with a spoon the soft or fibrous substance found in the inside, and which is fancifully styled the “ choke.” Throw them once again into the boiling water, to heat up; take them out again, drain, Fig. 47. Dish of Globe Artichokes Plain Boiled. and serve in a vegetable-dish with a strainer (see Pig. 47) or upon a neatly-folded napkin. Serve with melted butter, or butter which has been oiled. (2) Cold they are eaten with pepper, oil, and vinegar. (3) Cut the Artichokes into four pieces, and remove the core. Plunge into boiling water in which 1 teaspoonful of salt