196 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Brill—continued. frequently -with the liquor. When done, remove to a dish, strain the gravy, and pour it over as a sauce. Garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. (2) Shin and clean a Brill, wash it well, dry it, and put it into a baking-pan with a few slices of onion and a little chopped parsley, seasoning with salt and pepper, and pouring over 3 wineglassfuls of water and 1 pint of white wine. Place a sheet of greased paper over the fish, set it in a slow oven, and bake until done; then take it out, put it on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of bechamel sauce, mixed with liquor of crayfish or crayfish-juice. Boiled Brill.—(1) Clean a thick Brill, cut off its fins, rub it over with the juice of a lemon and some salt, place it in a fish-kettle, sprinkle some salt and a little vineg-ar over it, cover with water, and place on the fire. When it boils, re- move the kettle on one side, and let it simmer g'ently till done, which would be about twenty minutes for a 41b. Brill. Lay it on a napkin, the white side up, and serve garnished with slices of lemon and parsley. (2) Soak a Brill in salted water for an hour (the skin must be scored across the thickest parts of the back, or the breast will break by the swelling of the fish), put it on a drainer in a fish-kettle, sprinkle over it a little salt, cover with water, and let it boil g-ently for twenty minutes. Cover a fish-drainer with a napkin, and when the fish is done, lay it gently on this utensil; then get a little of the coral spawn of a lobster, and rub through a fine hair sieve over the fish. Serve garnished with horseradish, some slices of lemon, and sprigs of parsley. (3) Cooking a small Brill takes about half-an-hour, and to keep it white, it is a good plan to rub a little lemon-juice and salt over it a short time previous to boiling. Place the Brill in a fish-kettle with some salt sprinkled over, cover it with a cloth, pour boiling water over, and let it simmer till done. It is sometimes thought advisable to make an incision down the backbone to prevent the skin of the belly from cracking, but if boiled slowly this is not necessary. Garnish and serve. (4) Take a Brill, rub it well over with lemon and salt, and put it into about 6qts. of boiling water with lib. of salt. Simmer gently on the side of the fire for thirty minutes until the fish slightly cracks ; then take it out, let it drain, place it in a cloth, and serve garnished with parsley. Shrimp sauce should be served either separately or poured over the fish; if in the latter way, do not use a cloth. Boiled Brill with Ancliovy Cream. — Put a good-sized Brill in a stewpan with about 6qts. of water and lib. of salt, place it by the side of the fire, and let it simmer for thirty minutes. Place it on a dish without a cloth, and make some sauce as follows : Put a stewpan with lqt. of melted butter on the fire, and let it nearly boil, then adding |-lb. of anchovy butter and 1 teacupful of cream. Whip the cream well before adding it to the butter. Mix all well together, and place it on the fire again (where it must not be allowed to boil) until wanted for use. Pour the sauce over the fish, and then throw a few capers and also some gherkins, finely chopped, over all. Brill —continued. Boiled Brill with Bechamel Sauce.—Clean a Brill, put it into a basin of water, and soak it for a couple of hours ; then take it out, drain it, put it into a deep dish, cover it over with salt, and let it remain for an hour. Put it into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil gently for from twenty to twenty-five minutes, taking great care that the fish does not break while cooking. When done, put it care- fully on a dish, and serve with bechamel sauce either poured round or in a sauceboat. Boiled Brill with Caper Sauce. — Take a fresh Brill, trim off the fins, clean it, cut it into pieces, and place it in a flat kettle; add 1 pint of milk or cream and 1 teacup- • ful of salt, and let it remain in this for an hour or so. When nearly required for serving, fill a stewpan with water, add some salt, a sprig of parsley, and a little vinegar, and place it on the fire; when it begins to boil, put in the fish, and boil up for three or four minutes, then leaving it to simmer on the side of the fire with a cover on. Let it stand for fifteen minutes; then take out the pieces of fish, drain them, place them on a cloth spread over a perforated strainer, garnish with parsley, and serve with sauce made as follows : Put 1 breakfast-cupful of melted butter into a pan, and let it nearly boil; then add 1 table-spoonful of flour, 3 table-spoonfuls of capers, and a little pepper and salt to taste. Serve either with the fish or separately. Lobster sauce may be used instead of this. Boiled Brill Garnished with Potatoes and Crayfish.— Put a Brill in cold water for two hours, having previously cleaned and cut off the fins ; wash it in fresh water, put it in a fish-kettle, sprinkle 2 table-spoonfuls of salt on top, cover with a cloth, pour boiling water in, and let it simmer for half-an-hour or more. Dish up and drain. Have some potatoes, cut to a regular oval, already cooked, and put them hot round the dish, with crayfish here and there, as though crawling between them. The fish itself may be garnished with lobster coral, slices of lemon, scraped horseradish, or parsley. Boiled Brill served in Parisian Style.—Get a thick, fresh Brill, thoroughly clean, dry, and score it along the back. Spread a gratin-dish thickly with butter, and put it in a fish- kettle with the fish on it; then mince an onion and a few pieces of mushrooms, and put in the kettle, sprinkling in a little salt, and covering the fish with white wine. When it boils, remove it to one side. Boil nineteen or twenty fresh button-mushrooms in some butter and lemon-juice; poach three dozen large oysters in white wine, and add to the mushrooms, with a few peeled truffles which have been boiled in wine and cut into large slices; prepare a few fish quenelles, and poach them; boil in a court bouillon about eighteen or nineteen live crayfish. Make a thick paste of 4oz. of flour and 4oz. of butter mixed with a little liquor in which the Brill is being cooked, and pass through a sieve into a saucepan, mixing