THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 230 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d'C., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. of fresh yeast, and two well-beaten eggs. Work the mixture well, cover it, and stand it in front of the fire until well risen, which will take about three-quarters-of-an-hour. Divide the dough into equal quantities, or mould them into Cakes about 4in. in diameter. Butter a baking-sheet, put the Cakes on it, leaving a space between them, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, cut each Cake into three round slices, butter them thickly, replace them, put them on a hot dish over which has been laid a folded napkin, and serve at once. (3) Warm loz. of butter and work it into 8oz. of flour; warm also 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and stir in 2oz. of yeast, then add loz. of sugar, and let it form a head. Now add the flour and make a dough; set it to rise for an hour, knead it well, and shape it into Cakes; set them to prove, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, pull them asunder, butter them inwardly, and serve hot. Brighton Cakes.—Put 4oz. of butter and lib. of powdered loaf sugar into a basin and rub them to a cream, beat in six eggs and stir in 3 teacupfuls of rich milk. Add lib. of flour, a little at a time, then 1 pinch of salt and 1 dessert- spoonful of baking-powder. Mix all very gently together, pour it into buttered, shallow tins or jelly-cake moulds, and bake in a quick oven. Take out when done, and let them get cold before using. Bristol Cakes.—Mix together 21b. of warmed butter, 21b. of sugar, twenty beaten eggs, 31b. of flour, 1 table-spoonful of baking-powder, 31b. of sultana raisins, and make into a paste. Put in small round hoops, and bake in a moderate oven. See Fig. 256. Brunswick Cakes.—(1) Large.—Dissolve 2oz. of dried yeast in 1 pint of lukewarm milk; warm lib. of butter, beat it until creamy, mix with it 6oz. of sugar, the beaten yolks of twelve and the whites of six eggs, the grated peel of one lemon, 1 table-spoonful of pounded sweet almonds, | table- spoonful of pounded bitter almonds, half a grated nutmeg, and the milk with the yeast. Sift in gradually 2jlb. of flour, and beat it thoroughly until a light dough is formed. Stone and chop 6oz. of raisins, well wash an equal quantity of currants, and add these at the last to the dough. Dust flour over a shallow baking-tin, put the dough in it, and spread it out ^in. in thickness ; put a cloth lightly over it, and set in a warm place to rise. When risen, make small holes in the dough with the fingers, and put in each a very small piece of butter; dust thickly over with caster sugar, and bake in a brisk oven. The Cake should be of a rich brown colour when cooked. (2) Small.—Warm in a basin and beat up a piece of butter the size of two eggs with ^lb. of caster sugar to a cream; add two well-beaten eggs and -f teacupful of milk, and stir until thoroughly mixed. Add Jib. of flour mixed with 1| teaspoon- fuls of baking-powder and H teaspoonfuls of mixed cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Bub some small Cake-tins with dripping, dust them with flour, pour in the mixture to about lin. in depth, bake in a moderate oven for kalf-an-liour, let the Cakes get cold, ice them, and use as desired. Buttercup Cakes.—Mix well together \\h. of butter, lib. of sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, one whole egg, 1 teacupful of milk, 1 pint of flour, 1 Haspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 11 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, 1 saltspoonful of mace, or 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel. Put portions into small round tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Ice with yellow icing, and decorate with candied fruit. Cakes—continued. Cakes for Coffee.—(1) Boil lib. of rice soft, mix with it 21b. of flour, 11b. of fine corn-meal, and 1 teacupful of fresh yeast. Moisten with cold water. Set the dough to rise overnight, make into small Cakes in tbe morning, and bake on a buttered baking-sheet. (2) German.—Make a light dough, as for Buns, sweeten it, and about three hours after roll it out very thin and lay it on a large baking-sheet. Brush over the top with 1 table-spoonful of lard that has been melted in hot water, and set the dough in a warm place to rise for one hour. Before baking, score it with the point of a paste-knife to prevent it puffing up. Let it bake ten minutes, and when it is done brush over the top with syrup, and sift over it caster sugar and ground cinnamon mixed. Cut it into 3in. squares. Cake in Imitation of a Ham.—Put the yolks of fourteen eggs in a basin with lib. of caster sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a few drops of essence of vanilla; beat them well until smooth and creamy. Whip the whites of the fourteen eggs to a firm froth, mix them gradually and lightly in with the batter, and sift in gradually 4Joz. of cornflour and the same quantity of wheaten-flour. Procure a large and deep oval-shaped paper case, pour the batter into it, and bake. When cooked, take the Cake out of the oven, turn it out of the case, and leave till cold. Hollow out the under part of the Cake, and trim it all round with a sharp knife to the size and shape of a dressed ham. Coat the whole of the upper surface with dissolved apricot jam; coat also the part where the rind is generally left on the knuckle with some transparent chocolate icing, then place it where it may dry without being disturbed. Prepare some cream ice and flavour it with vanilla, then fill the interior of the ham with it. Ornament the ham with a design, piped on in royal icing ; stick a fancy silver skewer in the knuckle end of the ham, and fix a paper ruffle round it. Put a lace-edged disli-paper on a dish, place the ham on it, and garnish with croutons of red and yellow jelly. It is then ready for serving. Cake in Imitation of a Haunch of Lamb (a la Soyer).— A dish of this character is of no extraordinary value, even as an eccentricity. Put the yolks of thirty-six eggs in a basin with 31b. of caster sugar, stand the basin in another one containing hot water, and whisk the eggs till rather thick and warm, then take the basin out of the water, and continue whisking them until cold. Beat the whites of the thirty-six eggs and mix them with the yolks, then sift in gradually 31b. of the best white flour and the finely-chopped peel of two lemons, stirring it lightly at the same time with a wooden spoon. When quite smooth, turn the batter into a very long mould and bake it. When cooked, take it out of the oven and leave till cold. If not convenient to use so large a mould, the Cake can be baked in two separate portions, and afterwards joined together with icing. When cold, trim the Cake with a sharp knife into the shape of a haunch of lamb. Make a hollow in tho interior of the Cake, but fill it up again with the pieces, to keep it in shape. Colour some icing to a light gold with a small quantity of melted chocolate and cochineal, and coat the Cake over with it, and leave till dry. Make sufficient strawberry or vanilla ice to fill the interior of the Cake. Form the knuckle-bone of tho lamb with office-paste; moisten the interior with brandy and preserved strawberry-juice, then fill it with tho ice. Put the haunch on to a dish, fix a paper frill round the knuckle-bone, and glaze it over with a mixture of apricot marmalade and currant jelly. Melt a small quantity of red- currant jelly with some red wine, pour it round the haunch, to imitate gravy, and serve. Cake in Imitation of a Melon.—Put lib. of sifted loaf sugar into a basin with ten eggs and the grated zest of a lemon, and beat well with a whisk for five or six minutes; remove the whisk and with a wooden spoon stir in 12oz. of sifted flour. Butter slightly a melon-shaped mould, half fill it with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Take out the Cake when done, let it stand for a day, cover it with royal icing, and then roll it in coarsely-sifted loaf sugar and let it set. Colour it on one side with extract of spinach and on the other with extract of saffron, imitating the shades of a ripe melon as nearly as possible. Prepare an imitation stalk