THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 219 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces■ dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cabbages—continued. Kales (or Kails). Although these are all classified as one botanical tribe (Brassica oleracea), they nevertheless differ from each other in conformation and other par- ticulars, such as culinary adaptation. For instance, of the white and red Cabbage and Savoy, the first growth of leaves, with or without a heart, forms the part selected for cooking; of Brussels Sprouts, the secondary growths, or shoots, are gathered; of the Broccoli and Cauliflowers, the flower of the plant is eaten; and the Red Cabbage is commonly used for pickling. Jerrold, in “ Our Kitchen Garden,” pronounces Brussels Sprouts and Cauliflowers to be the aristocracy of the Brassica family, leaving the common Cabbage to maintain the much more extensive democracy; in confirmation of this he further states, “Indeed, so universal is the liking for spring Cabbage that we have heard persons profess to consider it better than green peas.” Undoubtedly a crisp, freshly-cut, quickly-grown Cabbage may be reckoned almost second to no other vegetable, but there are some few coarse, stringy, tough, strong-flavoured, bitter Cab- bages to be met with in our open markets that can hardly be considered fit food for anything better than cattle. Cultivation has much to do with the quality of Cabbages, and since our cooks have learned to appreciate them for culinary purposes a happy combination of interests be- twixt the cook and the gardener have tended to raise the quality and estimation all round. The indefinite term “ greens ” is sometimes given to Cabbages, as also to sprouts, turnip-tops, and other green food; but it is advisable, for the sake of distinction, to relegate that appellation, however comprehensive, to the region of nick-names, and discard it for ever from our kitchens and kitchen-gardens, for it has no meaning whatever which is not already more perfectly supplied by other terms. Cabbages—continued. Jerrold further informs us that, “Among the hearting Cabbages may be placed the Drumheads and Savoys. The former, of enormous size, is largely grown for cattle, biit is an excellent vegetable, very useful when stewed in soups or broth, although most country people have such a prejudice against Cabbage of any description being boiled in soup that wc have known a hard-working labouring-man throw into the hog-tub a whole gallon of pea-soup, simply because lie found that Cabbage had been boiled with other vegetables in its preparation.” Blytli maintains that Cabbages possess anti-scorbutic properties, and contain sulphur, hence their disagreeable smell when boiling. They hold also other sanitary salts, and about 90 per cent, of water. The nutritive value of Cabbages is not high, but Continental cooks have obtained the best results from them by boiling them in meat stock, and serving them with sundry rich sauces. The custom of boiling in plain water, with or without the addition of soda to preserve the colour, has not in- creased the popularity of Cabbages; the soda destroys much of the distinctive flavour. Coarse Cabbages may be rendered more palatable by boiling them in several waters; but those which are crisp, freshly cut and young, should be plunged at once into hot water or stock, and boiled fast until they are tender. Under the denomination “ Cabbages ” our consideration will be confined to Cabbages proper—White, Red, Savoy, and a comparative stranger known as “ Stock ” Cabbage, leaving other kinds of Brassica with specific names to be treated under their own headings. Fig. 243. St. John’s Day Cabbage. White Caeeages.—It would be a difficult matter to pronounce in favour of any particular kind of white Cabbage, although there can be little doubt that amongst such a vast number of existing varieties some will pro- bably possess superior qualities to others. But it must be remembered that the quality of a Cabbage as food depends greatly upon the nature of the cooking. Nicholson, in the “Dictionary of Gardening,” recommends the following varieties of white Cabbage: Atkins’ Match- less, Carter’s Heartwell, Early Battersea, Early York (Fig. 241), a very handsome Cabbage, with large smooth leaves and cone-shaped heart; Ellam’s Early Dwarf, En- field Market, Oxlieart (Fig. 242), a short stumpy Cabbage, of fine quality, with small round full heart; St. John’s Day (Fig. 243), a Savoy-like Cabbage, with very crisp, tender leaves, and round, firm heart; Sugarloaf, Wheeler’s Imperial, and Portugal or Couve Tronchuda. The last- named was introduced recently from Portugal. The following receipts, by our best cooks, provide numerous modes for cooking Cabbages, and ensure for this vegetable an appreciation that might otherwise be unknown. American Slaw.—(1) Cold.—Chop up small a Cabbage that has been boiled and then allowed to get cold. Dissolve