152 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Blackberries—continued. Blackberry Meringue.—Put 8oz. of sugar and fire eggs into a basin, beat tbem well for two or three minutes, then add 4oz. of warmed butter, 12oz. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder, and 1 teacupful of milk; when well mixed, spread the preparation on to a baking-sheet, and bake until done. Care must be taken in spreading out the mixture to have it a little thinner in the centre than at the sides. When done, take it out of the oven, cover the surface with Blackberries, and cover them again with meringue made by beating the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, and mixing in 4 table- spoonfuls of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Put the cake in the oven, bake for a minute, take it out, and serve. Blackberry Pie.—Pick the Blackberries clean of stalks and debris, and put them into a flat pie-dish lined with a good paste. Grate a little nutmeg over, add the juice of a lemon and its grated rind, and a piled teacupful of moist sugar; then pour in 1 gill of water, put on a top crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Sometimes apples to the extent of a third of the fruit are added, and the juice of a lemon is another great improvement. Blackberry Pudding. — Take a sufficient quantity of Black- berries and thinly-sliced apples, mixed, to fill a pudding- basin. Turn out the fruit from the basin, and line with a good pudding crust; replace the fruit, add 21b. of sugar, cover over, and tie up with a cloth. Plunge into boiling water, and let it boil for two hours, or nearly. Blackberry Shape.—Carefully select and pick over a full pint of large freshly-gathered ripe Blackberries, freeing them from stalks, leaves, and any other debris. Put them in a wide- mouthed jar, stand this in a saucepan partly filled with water, and let them stew with the lid on the jar until they are soft; then squeeze all the juice out of them by twisting in a cloth. Have ready pared, cored, and chopped as many good cooking apples as will weigh lib.; put them into the preserving-pan with the juice of the Blackberries, and let them boil for a little until the apples are soft; then add (stirring) fib. of moist sugar, and let it simmer until the sugar is all dissolved, and for a few minutes after; then stir in the grated peel of half a lemon, and put into a stone or earthenware mould. This will set better if the full mould is packed in ice. Before turning out, dip the outside of the mould for a second into a basin of hot water, and the shape will fall out of the mould quite easily. Blackberry Shortcake.—Put into a basin Jib. of crushed loaf sugar with Jib. of well-washed butter, grate in the rind of half a lemon, and mix well with the hand for ten minutes. Break in five eggs, one at a time, meanwhile mixing for ten minutes longer, always with the hand. Add gradually Jib. of sifted flour, and mix for three minutes. Cover a baking-sheet with thick paper, place on this three tin cake-rings, 9in. in diameter and lin. high, divide the preparation equally into them, and place in a moderate oven to bake for thirty minutes. Remove, and allow the cakes thirty minutes more to cool. Lift up the paper with the cakes, turn it upside down on the table, remove the paper, and detach the cakes from the rings by passing a knife all round. Pick and clean 3 pints of fine ripe Blackberries. Have ready a dish with a fancy paper over; lay one of the cakes on top of this, spread over evenly 2 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream, cover with half the Blackberries, sprinkle liberally with powdered sugar, cover with another cake, spread over the same quantity of cream as before, arrange the other half of the Blackberries on top, dredge again with powdered sugar, and lay the last cake over all, sprinkling with more sugar. Fix a small tube into a pastry-bag, put into the bag 6 table-spoonfuls of whipped vanilla cream, and with it decorate the top of the cake in an artistic manner. Blackberry Syrup.—(1) Mash and express the juice from as many freshly-gathered ripe Blackberries as you may have for the purpose, and to each quart of juice add a syrup made by boiling 61b. of sugar in 1J pints of water. When the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, add the juice, boil up, and then remove from the fire ; skim, and pass through a fine strainer into bottles. (2) To 2qts. of juice add lib. of sugar, Joz. of powdered nutmeg, Joz. of powdered cinnamon, Joz. of powdered cloves, and Joz. of powdered allspice; boil together for a short time, and when cold add 1 pint of good brandy. Blackberries—continued. Blackberry Tarts.—(1) Take Jib. of puff paste, roll it out 12in. long by 8in. wide, and with a pastry-cutter cut out six pieces; arrange these neatly on six scalloped tart-moulds, each 3 Jin. wide. Take each separate mould in the hand, and with the thumb press the paste gently down at the bottom and sides, so to give it the perfect shape of the mould, but avoid pressing the paste on the edge, so that in baking it will swell and rise. Divide into them evenly 8oz. of apple marmalade, lay them on a baking-sheet, and put them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes; remove them to the door, sprinkle the edges with powdered sugar, return them to the oven, and close the door for two minutes, so that the sugar melts thoroughly ; lift them out, put them to cool for twenty minutes, and take out half the marmalade. Pick and wash 1 pint of Blackberries, put them in a vessel with 2oz. of powdered sugar, and mix well for one minute; divide this equally into the six tarts, spread over ljoz. of apple jelly, dress them on a dish with a folded napkin or ornamental paper, and serve. (2) Spread 12oz. of apple marmalade over a pie-dish lined with paste, put a strip of paste round the rim, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes ; dust the surface profusely with powdered loafi sugar, and bake for two minutes longer. Take it out, ler'dt get quite cold, and with a spoon scoop out about half of thte apple; fill up the cavity with 1J pints of Blackberries mixed up with 2oz. of sugar, spread over a little apple jelly, and serve. Blackberry Tartlets.—Same as for Blackberry Pie, ex- cepting that small tartlet-pans are used instead of a pie- dish, and the fruit is left uncovered. Blackberry Wine.—(1) A variety of instructions are given by different authors for the preparation of this wine, but all err more or less in one very important particular—the addition of so much sugar that only a small part is broken up by fermentation, leaving a rich syrupy liquor instead of a pleasantly drinkable beverage. The best plan is to get -what Blackberries you can, taking care that they are gathered when the sun is up; for should the day be dull or wet, the fruit is not generally fit to ferment, and is flavourless. Mash the fruit with a masher as soon after gathering as possible, and put it in a vat with equal parts of warm water in which a little sugar has been dissolved over heat—lib. of sugar to lgall. of fruit and water is ample. Pour off the juice and press the mass thoroughly to get out all the liquor you can ; then put into a well-cleaned tub to ferment, but do not fill the tub by 2in. or 3in. In the course of a few days the fermentation will have thoroughly set in without the addition of yeast. When the active fermentation has in a measure subsided, fill up the barrel with old Blackberry wine if you have any, or sugary water (lib. to a gall.), and bung up. In the course of two or three months it will be soon enough to .draw off into another cask, and fine down by pouring into it the whites of two or three eggs to every 9galls., or loz. of gelatine dissolved in a little of the wine; stir in well, re-bung, and leave for a fortnight or more ; then draw off into bottles, taking every care to cork them thoroughly. Lay down in a cellar for a year or so before using, as wine made in this way improves by keeping. (2) Cover a quantity of Blackberries with water, and put them into an oven to draw out the juice. Strain the liquor through a sieve, and leave it to ferment for fifteen days. Afterwards add lib. of sugar to each 2qts. of juice, and stir in J pint of gin or brandy. Bottle, cork loosely, and in a few days’ time it will be ready for use. See British Wines. Blackberry Wine with Blums.—(1) Pick off all the stalks and remove all the leaves from 3galls. of freshly-gathered Blackberries. Put Jgall. at a time into a saucepan or pre- serving-pan, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and stir over a slow fire until they commence to boil. Pass the liquor through a jelly-bag into a basin, and proceed udth the re- maining Blackberries, serving them in the same way. When all the liquor is obtained, measure it, and to each gallon add l.Vlb. of any kind of plums, such as egg-plums, bullaces, sloes, or damsons, and 31b. of sugar; put them all into a tub, pour in lgall. of water, add sufficient yeast to ferment it. When the fermentation is completed, remove the head,