204 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Broth—continued. number of receipts for its preparation were few ; but since French cookery has become popular in this country, a vast array has been brought before us, so that it has become more difficult to distinguish Broths from soups or consommes from potages. Bouillon stands almost by itself, and thus, according to our Continental chef, we have Bouillon—a weak Broth ; Consomme—a finished or seasoned Broth; Potage—a soup requiring much skill in compounding. A Broth-napkin stretched on frame is shown at Fig. 216, while Fig. 217 illustrates a ready method of stretching a Broth-napkin. When cold the cakes of fat should be removed with a skimmer (see Fig. 218), and put in a pot for future culinary uses. Put 61b. of beef in a stockpot with a knuckle of veal and half a fowl, cover with plenty of water, and let it come to the boil slowly, removing the scum as it rises to the top, so that it may be quite clear ; when boiling, put into the liquid a head of celery, three small carrots, three leeks, three turnips, and two onions, one of these having been stuck with four cloves. Move the stockpot to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for four hours; at the end of that time skim all the fat off the Broth with a skimmer (see Fig. 218), and put in a lump of salt. It is then ready for use. Broth in Eorty Minutes. ■— Put into a stewpan 41b. of lean meat from a leg of beef, previously cutting it into small squares, taking care to remove all fat and skin ; put 2qts. of cold water to every pound of meat, and then add a few minced vegetables, such as carrots, leeks, celery roots, and onions, 1 pinch of chervil, a few peppercorns, cloves, and, if handy, a few backs or trimmings of either raw or cooked fowl can be added. Put the pan over the fire, stirring from time to time, and when beginning to boil, move the pan back so as to let it simmer gently. Twenty minutes after, drain the Broth through a moistened cloth, and clear it of its fat. Broth in an Hour.—Let lib. of lean beef cut into pieces, with chopped onions and carrots, and a few thin slices of bacon, simmer in a stewpan in half a tumbler of water for a quarter-of-an-hour. When it begins to stick to the bottom of the pan, add lqt. of boiling water, with 1 pinch of salt, and boil three-quarters-of-an-hour ; then strain, and use. Broth with Macaroni.—Boil lib. of good macaroni till nearly done ; then strain, and put it into a rich stock Broth to boil. When well done, serve, with grated Parmesan cheese separately in a dish. Broth Banacla.—Pour 1 pint of Broth into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of crumbled crusts of bread, put it on the fire, and boil from forty-five to sixty minutes, stirring it all the time, and adding ioz. of butter and salt to taste. A little celery flavour added is usually appreciated. Broth Thickened with Eggs.—Many an invalid will be thankful to Ude for the following: Take sufficient good game or fowl consomme, and to every 5 pint add the yolk ' of one egg; beat in and thicken it with a little flour. If it is wanted to set so as to turn out in a shape, use two yolks of eggs to each 5 pint, butter the moulds, put the Broth in, and boil in the bain-marie till hard ; then turn them out on a dish. Thicken some more consomme with the yolks of two eggs, and pour over as a sauce. Cheap Broth.—Clean and wash a sheep's head, remove the brains and tongue, put it in a stewpan with sufficient water and a little salt, and boil for ten minutes, when it will be quite clean. Pour off the water, and add lgall. of fresh water, lib. of the scrag end of the neck of mutton cut into small pieces, a dozen peppercorns, half-a-dozen onions, 2 Broth—continued. table-spoonfuls of pearl barley, and salt to taste. Place this over the fire or stove, and -when it boils skim it carefully ; then put on the cover, and simmer very gently for six hours. A little warm water should be added now and then, to make up for that which boils away. When done, pass it through a conical strainer, and squeeze the pearl barley and onions through a sieve to make them fine. Skim off the fat, moisten a little flour in a small quantity of the Broth, and pour it in to thicken it; then boil up again, and serve very hot. Invalid Broth.—Chop up a handful or so each of well-washed chervil, sorrel, beet-leaves, and purslane, and the leaves of two large lettuces, and put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water; bring the water once more to the boil, put on the lid, remove the pan from the fire, and let it stand for twenty minutes. Add a little salt and 2oz. of butter, stir well until melted, strain through a fine sieve, and use as desirde. Maigre Broth.—Cut into slices ten carrots, turnips, and onions, put them into a saucepan with two lettuces, two sticks of celery, one parsnip, half a cabbage, all cut up, and a little chervil; mix in 8oz. of butter and 2 breakfast- cupfuls of water, cover over the pan, and cook until nearly all the liquor is absorbed or evaporated. Half fill the pan with boiling water, add two or three cloves, lqt. of green peas, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil for three or four hours, strain the Broth into a tureen, and serve. Nutritive Broth.—(1) Cut 61b. of meat off a shoulder of beef, take away the bones, and divide the meat into square pieces about 6oz. each; put these in a saucepan, and moisten with 8qts. or lOqts. of cold water ; set the saucepan on the fire, add a little salt, skim the fat off, garnish with vegetables, and let it simmer gently. Two hours later, add to it a bone of roasted beef, or that of a leg of mutton. When the meat is done, pour the Broth through a napkin, and skim the fat off. (2) Chop into small pieces 41b. of the scrag end of a neck of mutton, take away all the fat, and put the meat into a saucepan with 6 pints of water. When it boils, skim and stand it aside to simmer for an hour. Chop into small pieces a turnip and a small head of celery, add 1 teacupful of washed rice, and let the Broth simmer for two or three hours. Skim off all fat, and season with salt and pepper. (3) Put in a stockpot half a chicken, a knuckle of veal, and about 61b. of lean beef; cover with cold water, and boil it slowly, skimming it well. Add two onions (one stuck with three cloves), three turnips, two carrots, and one head of celery, and simmer gently for four hours. When done, add a little salt, skim again, strain, and serve. Pectoral Broth.—Pluck, singe, and draw an old fowl, cut it into quarters, clean the feet, crop, liver, and wings, and put them all into a stockpot together with a little marsh-mallow root, which any herb-chemist will supply; add 2 handfuls of best pearl barley well washed in two or three waters, and cover with cold water. Let this boil gently for three hours, strain through a cloth, and serve. The addition of 1 table- spoonful of rum improves this Broth. Refreshing' Broth.—Divide an old fowl into four parts, cut a small knuckle of veal into small pieces, put both in a stock- pot, sprinkle a little salt over the top, add 4qts. of cold water, and put it over the fire till it boils ; then skim, and move it on one side. Put in a carrot, a piece of turnip, two leeks, and 1 teacupful of well-washed pearl barley, and let it simmer gently for an hour ; then add two small whole onions that have been browned in the oven, three fresh well- washed cabbage lettuces, and let it simmer for another hour; then add a pinch of chervil; half-an-liour later, skim off all the fat, and strain through a damp cloth. Rich Broth.—First truss, and then roast two fowls before a sharp fire, so that they may be browned before being more than half cooked. Put them into a saucepan with 61b. of gravy beef, 41b. of leg of veal, and 7qts. of stock, and place on the fire to boil; then skim, and add lib. of salt, three or four carrots, and four leeks. Let it simmer at the side of the fire for four hours; then strain, take off the fat care- fully, and clarify the Broth with fillets of the fowls, reserved for the purpose. Strain again through a Broth-napkin into a basin, and keep in a cool place till wanted.