TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 184 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, sec under their special heads. Bread—continued. left. If it be too soft to be bandied easily, use a little of the reserved flour; if too stiff, add more water. Knead it for half-an-hour, then cover, and let it rise until it has doubled in size. Cut it through several times, and let it rise again; then divide into four parts, shape these into loaves, cover, and let it rise again. Bake in a hot oven lor nearly an hour. Whole-meal Bread.—Mix 1 pint of scalded milk, 2 table- spoonfuls of moist sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, f breakfast- cupful of yeast, 5 or 6 breakfast-cupfuls of fine granulated wheat flour (or 2 breakfast-cupfuls of white flour), and 3 or 3J breakfast-cupfuls of sifted Graham-flour, into a dough a little softer than for white bread, and let this rise till light; then stir it down, pour it into well-greased pans (see Fig. 193, b), or, if stiff enough, shape it into loaves, let it rise again, and bake a little longer and in a less hot oven than for white Bread. Rolls and Twists.—If it is difficult to distinguish between the qualities of plain and fancy Bread, it is still more difficult to define what sort of dough is suitable for Rolls and Twists and what is not. The object of these “ petits pains ” is convenience, and to some extent appearance—two advantages that have been secured at the cost of quantity and sometimes of dietetic quality. Indeed, the dough prepared for some of these exceedingly white, light, spongy breads is subject to adulterative treatments that are injurious to health. Any such have been carefully avoided in giving instruc- tions for the manufacture of the following. American Astor-Honse Rolls.—Put 2qts. of sifted flour into a deep bowl, make a hollow in the centre, and put into it the following ingredients : 1 pint of lukewarm milk with 1 table-spoonful of butter dissolved in it, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and 2 gills of yeast; with the hand mix enough of. the flour with these ingredients to fo»m a smooth thin batter. Cover the bowl with a folded cloth, and put it in a warm place until the batter is light and foamy; then mix in the rest of the flour, knead the dough for five minutes, cover it again, and let it stand until twice its original size. When the dough is light, roll and Fig. 196. American Astor-House Boll. cut it into thick rounds, sot two together (see Fig. 196), and bake in a quick oven until browned. American Parker-House Rolls.—Put 2qts. of flour into a deep bowl or pan, make a hollow in the middle of it, and put in the following ingredients without mixing them, and in the order in which they are named: 1 table-spoonful of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of butter broken into small pieces, 1 pint of cold scalded milk, and 5 pint of yeast. Cover the pan with a folded towel, and place it in a cool part of the kitchen. This being done in the evening, the dough will be risen in the morning. Add to it a teaspoonful of salt dissolved in a little warm water, mix all the ingredients, and knead the dough for fifteen minutes; then return it to the pan, cover with the cloth, and let it rise again for six hours. Again knead the dough for two or three minutes, roll it out evenly about -)in. thick, and cut it with a smooth biscuit-cutter. Put a small piece of butter, on one side of each round of dough, and double them; put the rolls in a buttered baking-pan, cover them with a folded cloth, set the pan in a moderately warm place, and let the rolls rise for half-an-hour; then bake them in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes, and serve hot. Butter Rolls for Tea.—Put Rb. of light bread dough into a basin, mix in 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, loz. of butter, the Bread—continued. yolk of an egg, | teacupful of milk or cream, and about 1 breakfast-cupful of flour. Set the preparation to rise in a warm temperature for a couple of hours, then knead it well on a floured table, pressing it with the knuckles, and con- tinue in this way for several minutes, until the dough is full of air bubbles, light, and with a silky appearance. Make out the dough into round balls, and when all are done roll them out flat; brush half of them over with melted butter, place the other half on the top, press in the centre, brush over the surfaces with melted butter, and set them to rise again. Put them into a moderate oven, and bake for from fifteen to twenty minutes; take them out, cut them into halves or quarters, butter them inwardly, and serve hot. Caraway Roll.—Dissolve 1 table-spoonful of yeast in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warm milk. Warm 2oz. of butter, and beat it with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar; then mix it with the yeast, and add 2lb. of flour, a few caraway-seeds, and sufficient warm milk to make a light dough. Knead the dough thoroughly, put it on a floured paste-board, and shape into a long roll. Lay the roll on a tin, cover it with a cloth, and keep it in a warm place until risen. Bake the roll till of a light yellow colour in a moderate oven. When cooked, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and strew caster sugar over it. Derbyshire Rolls.—Rub 6oz. of butter into 61b. of the best wheaten-flour till quite smooth. Mix R table-spoonfuls of yeast in R pints of milk, and beat in the yolks of six eggs. Work all these ingredients together till quite smooth. Divide the dough into equal portions, shape into rolls, let these rise in a warm temperature, and then bake them. On the following day dip the rolls in milk, put them in a Dutch oven, and brown them before a clear fire. Serve hot, with butter. Family Rolls.—Mix 2qts. of flour with 2 teaspoonfuls of salt and 2 table-spoonfuls of butter or lard, add sufficient sponge to make a 2qt. loaf of Bread, mix in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and form the whole into a dough; make this into rolls, and bake in a slack oven. French Rolls.—(1) Mix lqt. of flour in with 1 teaspoonful of salt, two eggs, 1 table-spoonful of lard, 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast, and sufficient milk to make a dough, and work it well; then sot the dough to rise for the night. Work it well again in the morning, then form it into rolls ; set those to rise again, and bake them in a quick oven. (2) Work 1 gill of yeast in with 3 pints of flour, add a well- beaten egg and 1 table-spoonful of butter, and sufficient milk or warm water to form a dough ; set this to rise, and when risen, form it into rolls, and bake in a quick oven. (3) Beat loz. of butter into lib. of flour, adding a small pinch of salt, a well-beaten egg, 1 table-spoonful of yeast, and sufficient milk to form a stiff dough. Work this well Fig. 197. Frencii-roll Tin (Mathews and Son). without kneading, set it to rise, put it into tins (see Fig. 197), and bake for about half-an-hour. (4) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a saucepan, and warm it; add loz. of butter, melt it, pour all into a basin, add one beaten egg, a little salt, 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast, and Rib. of flour ; set the dough to rise for an-hour- and-a-half; then knead it well, form it into shape or put it in tins (see Fig. 198), and bake in a quick oven for about forty-five minutes. (5) Put 21b. of flour into a basin, work in 4oz. of butter, and then add two well-beaten eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast, -£ teaspoonful of salt, and sufficient warm milk to form a soft dough. Put this in a bowl in a warm place to rise for about