TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 183 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <t-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Bread—continued. sponge. Mis 1 teaspoonful of salt with 21b. of flour, and stir in the sponge, kneading well together. Cover over the pan with a cloth, and set to prove, or rise. When ready, make the dough into three loaves, put these on a well-floured baking-sheet, and bake in a hot oven for an hour. When they are cooked, the loaves should be put on a stand or turned over on their sides to prevent the bottom crust from becoming wet and soddened with steam. (2) Put into 1 pint of scalded milk 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and 1 pinch of salt; when cool, add § breakfast-cupful of fresh yeast, and stir in gradually enough flour to make a dough. Knead till smooth and elastic, cover with a cloth, and let it rise; then divide into four parts, and make into any shape preferred. Let it rise again in the pans, and bake forty or fifty minutes. If preferred not kneaded, use about 1 breakfast-cupful less of flour, mix: it with a knife, work it until all the dry flour is well incorporated with the other ingredients, and make just soft enough to be shaped into a loaf. Potato Bread.—Put 2|lb. of peeled potatoes into a saucepan of slightly-salted water, and boil until they are soft and mealy ; then turn them out into a basin, mash them, mix them up with a little cold water, and pass them through a sieve into a bowl or earthenware pan; stir in a teacupful of yeast and 2oz. of salt, and work the whole into a stiff paste by adding 71b. of flour ; cover the pan with a cloth, and put it in a warm place to rise. When the dough has sufficiently risen, knead it well, form it into the shape of loaves, put them in the oven, and bake for from an-hour-and-a-half to two hours. Take them out, and they are ready for use, and may be eaten as ordinary Bread. One or two eggs and a little butter may be added to the paste before the flour is mixed in, and are a great improvement to the flavour. Pumpkin Bread.—(1) Peel a pumpkin, cut it in slices, and boil it. When soft, strain the slices through a colander, and mash very fine. Use half as much wheat-flour as there is pumpkin, and prepare a sponge with yeast in the ordinary way; when it begins to rise, work the pumpkin in, using as much of it as will bring the dough to a proper degree of stiffness without water. The pumpkin should not be too hot. Knead the dough smoothly, cover it, and set it to rise in a warm place for two or three hours. Knead it again, shape the loaves, and bake in a moderate oven. (2) American.—Take 1 breakfast-cupful of pumpkin squash, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of fine sugar and 1 teaspoon- ful of salt. Melt 2oz. of butter in 1J pints of scalded milk, and when the milk is cool add 1 teacupful of yeast and flour enough to sponge it. When risen, mix all together and add flour enough to knead it. Let it rise until light. Knead again thoroughly, and shape into loaves or biscuits. Let it rise again, and when well risen, bake as other Bread. Queen’s Bread.—Prepare a stiff dough with Jgall. of water at about 94deg. Fahr., lib. of moist sugar and 5oz. of German yeast dissolved in it, and l|lb. of flour; mix well, and set to rise; then add lib. of butter and lard, 2oz. of salt, and one egg to each pound of dough, set it to rise for half-an hour, form it into any desired shapes, and bake in a moderate oven. Biice Bread.—(1) Put 1 Jib. of rice into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and boil slowly for four or five hours ; beat the rice to a smooth pulp, then mix in 141b. of flour, 3oz. of salt, and 1 breakfast-cupful of yeast. Turn the mixture into an earthen- ware bowl, cover it with a cloth, and let it rise before the fire or in a warm place. Make it into loaves, and bake these in the oven as for ordinary Bread. (2) Put lqt. of ground rice into a saucepan, pour in sufficient warm water to make a thick pulp, then add 2qts. or 3qts. of boiling water, and stir well over the fire until the liquor boils; add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, boil for a minute or two, and then let the mixture cool. Add a breakfast-cupful of yeast and sufficient flour to make the paste stiff, turn it into a bowl, and let it rise in front of the fire. Work in a little more flour, form the Bread into loaves, put these in the oven, and bake. Bye Bread.—Put 1 table-spoonful each of butter and sugar into a basin, pour over 1 pint of boiling milk, add 1 teaspoonful of salt; let the mixture cool, and then add a teacupful of yeast. Make the sponge in the. morning, and allow it to stand covered all night in a cool pantry, then add 3 breakfast- Bread—continued. cupfuls of rye-flour, beat well, and let it rise. When it is sufficiently risen, add more rye-flour to make it firm, knead well for half-an-liour, let it rise again, knead it again, shape it into loaves or rolls, put these in the oven, and bake. Scotch Bread.—Anything in the way of Bread from the “ Land o’ Cakes ” is considered in South Britain to be very superior; whereas at one time Scotch Bread was rather inclined to be coarse and rough flavoured, being made chiefly from potato ferment. These conditions have apparently been changed, for Scotch Bread is now famous for its softness, purity, and white- ness—the latter marked quality being due to the superfine quality of the flour. The leaven mostly used is that known as Parisian barm, and the process of making is as follows : To make 1 sack of biscuit flour into Bread with a quarter sponge, take lgall. of lukewarm water, to this add Jgall. of Parisian barm, and work into it sufficient flour to make a stiffish dough. This may be set about midday, and will then be ready to use before 4 o’clock. It should drop a little in the tub in which it was set before it is turned into the bread trough. Add 10 galls, of water in which 21b. of common salt have been dissolved, and mix well in- to a well-beaten sponge ; add Ggalls. more lukewarm water with 111b. more salt dis- solved in it, and work this up with the remainder of the sack of flour into a soft dough—the softer the dough can be worked, the clearer and showier will the loaf be. When quite ready and thoroughly kneaded, cut through in places, leave to rise a little in a warm place, and then, when the dough is light enough according to your judgment, which in this case proclaims your experience and skill, shape into large oblong, square-cornered loaves, press together, and bake in a slow oven until the crusts are browned. Or the loaves may be put into lightly-greased oblong tins (see Fig. 195), and these tinned Scotch loaves are usually preferred to those baked in batches. Soda Bread.—With 21b. of flour mix loz. of tartaric acid and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Dissolve loz. of bicarbonate of soda in 1 pint of milk, and when all the sediment has disappeared, pour it into the flour, and mix up quickly. Make into loaves, and bake for an hour. Sweet Potato Bread.—Boil, peel, and mash sweet potatoes sufficient to yield lqt. of pulp; to this add 1 pint of milk in which has been dissolved ioz. of compressed yeast and 2 teaspoonfuls each of salt and sugar; add also 1 pint of boiling water, and just enough flour to make a stiff batter. Put this batter in a warm place near the fire to rise, keeping it covered with a thick towel folded three times. When the batter has risen to twice its original bulk, mix with it more flour—enough to make a soft dough; knead this for five minutes, then put it into three buttered iron pans (see Fig. 193, a), half-filling each, and again cover. Let the loaves rise to double their original bulk, then bake them in a moderate oven until quite done. Use this Bread hot or cold. Togus Bread.—Mix together lj pints of sweet milk, J pint of sour milk, ljoz. of corn-meal, 4oz. of flour, 1 teacupful of molasses, and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and powdered carbonate of ammonia; knead thoroughly, form into a flat loaf, and bake for three hours. Turnip Bread.—Boil some turnips till tender, press out the juice, and when the pulp is dry beat it very fine; mix with this the same quantity of flour, and season with salt. Knead, let the dough rise a little, and then bake like ordinary Bread. Water Bread.—Sift 2qts. of flour into a bowl holding about 4qts. (keeping back, however, 1 breakfast-cupful of it to uso later on if needed), and mix in 1 teaspoonful of salt and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, rubbing in 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter until fine. Mix Jib. cake of compressed yeast in 5 breakfast-cupful of water, and stir in with the flour with another pint of warm water. Scrape the dry flour from the sides and bottom of the bowl, and bring the knife up through the dough, turning the mass over and over until no dry flour is Fig. 195. Scotch-bread Tin (Mathtws anil Son).