TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 68 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, sec under their special heads. Baking—continued. A useful article is a flat sheet of tin or thin iron, turned up a little at the edges, and made to slide in and out of the oven; upon this hatches of small cakes, &c., can he conveniently arranged (Fig. 72). Utensils of this kind are sometimes quite flat, round, or square, and are known as baking-sheets or plates. Others are con- structed of coarse wire gauze, to allow the hot air equal access to both top and bottom of the biscuits or cakes. BAKING-POWDERS.—These are for the most part mixtures of tartaric acid, carbonate of soda, and some form of farinaceous matter, such as ground rice, or potato-starch. They are mixed dry with the flour, and when wetted effervesce like Seidlitz powders, the carbonic-acid gas generated giving the required lightness to the dough or paste. A Mr. M’Dougall has recently advocated the use of phosphoric acid in place of the tartaric acid, the salt formed with the soda being a more natui-al constituent of food, and upon this supposition he has pi'oduced for us what is styled “phosphatic yeast,” which is simply a form of this substitution. Analysts complain loudly of the impurities and adulterations found in some Baking-Powders, due in a great measure to the use of impure chemicals. Dr. Hassall states that he has found a large proportion of arsenic in some specimens that have been submitted to him for analysis, due to the use of common washing soda instead of the bicarbonate. The temptation to adulteration must be very great, especially in the very cheap forms of the powder, and it is therefore better to prepare Baking-Powder at home, unless one of the known good makes is obtainable, especially as the process is simple. Amongst the reliable makes may be safely included Borwick’s, Freeman’s, Teatman’s, and Goodall’s. Here are two or three excellent receipts: (1) Take Jib. of powdered tartaric acid, fib. of bicarbonate of soda, and fib. of ground rice, or British arrowroot; dry them separately, and then mix them by rubbing through a sieve. This should be packed away in perfectly dry bottles without delay. (2) Take fib- of powdered tartaric acid, (lb. of powdered alum, fib. of bicarbonate of soda, and lib. of ground rice ; dry separately, and mix by rubbing through a sieve, and then add 3oz. of sesquicarbonate of ammonia, freshly and finely powdered. (3) The following, which is known as “ Green’s receipt,” is for wholesale purposes : Tartaric acid, 351b.; bicarbonate of soda, 561b. ; potato-flour, lcwt. Mix, and rub through a sieve. By the addition of a little turmeric, say J dr. to each pound, the above Baking-Powders may be converted into egg- powder. Should there be any difficulty in the way of either preparing Baking-Powder for private use, or purchasing it in packets, bicarbonate of soda and sour milk answer every purpose for making cakes—a little soda in excess being of no particular importance. One teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda should be sufficient to neutralise i pint of thoroughly soured milk, and carbonic-acid gas will be given off as soon as they are blended either in the cake or separate. The method usually adopted by confectioners is to mix the bicarbonate of soda with the flour, and wet the cake down with the sour milk. BAKLAVA.—A sort of pastry-cake made in Turkey. BALLACHONY.—This Indian preparation is in great favour amongst the European residents of India as an appetiser. (1) Shell and clean eight or nine dozen boiled prawns, and pound them with a pestle and mortar, using a little vinegar to keep the mortar moistened. Put the mass into a basin, and mix in loz. of green ginger, half the quantity of chillies, and the rind of four lemons, all pounded separately; when they are incorporated, add 2oz. of salt and the strained juice of two lemons. In the meantime, cut four small onions into rings, put them into a frying-pan with 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, and Ballachony—continued. fry them until they are quite soft, taking care not to burn them. Add the mixture, cook until it is quite dry, and then take it out. As soon as it is quite cold, put it into jars or pots, cover it over with orange-leaves, tie the jars over with bladder, and keep them in a cool place until wanted. The Ballachony will keep in this way for years. (2) For this either cooked or uncooked fish may be used, but if the latter, the onions must be half cooked before being added. Bemove the skin and bones from 21b. of any uncooked fish, mince it very fine, and add five or six large onions, also finely chopped, 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, and 1 tea- spoonful of cayenne. When these are well mixed, add about 5 teacupful of tamarind-juice, the juice of two lemons, and 8oz. of butter. Put the preparation into a frying-pan over a slow fire, and stir well until it is cooked, adding a small quantity more of butter if required. Add a little salt if necessary, turn the whole out on to a dish, put it into jars or pots when cold, cover and tie them over, and the Ballachony is ready for use. BALLOON OR PRUSSIAN CAKES. — See Cakes. BALLOON PUDDING.—Bee Puddings. BALL-SUPPERS AND REFRESHMENTS.— By these the host gives the key-note to the entire entertainment; for however exquisitely the room may be decorated, however sweet the music and highly polished the floor, and however charming and fascinating the company may prove, all is lost and absorbed in the dis- contentment born of a badly-served or ill-provided supper. The very act of dancing being one of over-heating and exertion, causes an exhaustion of the animal tissue and fluids, which must be reinstated to insure the comfort of the individual. For this reason it is advisable to show much discretion in the selection of refreshments, care being taken to avoid all those which might increase exhaustion by causing irritation—such as poultry, game, or fish with bones—or which by their nature provoke rather than relieve hunger and thirst, except perhaps in the case of those whose palates require something of an exciting character to gratify them. Another incidental to be borne in mind is that the measure of man’s or woman’s power of abstinence and appetite varies in each individual, as well as the meed of physical power which enables them to dance for a certain time without food or drink. Some are undoubtedly more capable of this abstention than others. These and other such considerations have taught the careful hostess to provide a continual supply of refresh- ments throughout the evening, so that the thirsty can drink, and the hungry eat, just when it suits them to do so; but in the majority of cases these desires, however keen they may be, can only be gratified at the supper- table, and then the gentlemen are expected, in the ordinary course, to give their attention to the ladies, with the result that in the end they come off very badly themselves. It would appear that society is at last awaking to a knowledge of this state of affairs, and begins to admit that “ sit-down ” suppers, as they are styled, are a mistake, and that the true ball-supper should unhesitatingly commence with the dance, and last the dancing through. Supposing that a buffet supper is decided upon, it will be obvious that any interval in the dance-programme would be inconvenient, and lead to a raid upon the buffet at one given time; so that it is better to state plainly bn the programme cards that refreshments are available during the whole evening; and if displayed in another room, which is almost imperative, the direction of the room should be specified. How to the buffet. What do we find P A very simply constructed bar, behind which two or three of the female servants dispense the good things that are laid out before them. In the space facing the buffet, and beyond into the conservatory, hall, or other convenient space, there