THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 200 For details respecting Culinary Frecesses, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Brioches—continued. lin. thick, fold these round the fingers, and place them in a buttered Brioche-mould, with the joined part of the ring down- wards. Mould some more Brioche paste in a long shape, pointed at one end, and stick through the centre of the Brioches, glaze the top, and bake in a hot oyen for twenty minutes. (2) Prepare the dough as for Brioches, No. 4, and when raised to twice the original size, lay it upon a board which has been lightly dredged with flour.; cut out a piece of 3oz., and lay it aside until needed; cut the rest of the paste into twelve equal pieces, and with the hand roll them into separate balls, laying these on a baking-sheet. Divide the paste laid aside into twelve parts, roll them out, and give each one a pear shape. With a spoon make a cavity in the centre of each ball, and put one of the pear pieces into each, having the larger part on the top. Leave them to rise in a hot closet for fifteen minutes, glaze them lightly with beaten egg, and put them in a brisk oven for twelve or fifteen minutes, but no longer. Remove, and with a light hair brush glaze them with butter, keeping them in a warm place until wanted. If the Brioches should be required cold, do not glaze them with butter, but dress them on a dish with a folded napkin. It is advisable to prepare the paste the evening previous, covering it with a cloth, and leaving it in a cool place all night. BRISOTIN OF VEAXs.—See Teal. BRITISH WINES.—If it is to be considered that good wine can be produced from the juice of the grape only, then it is time to inquire what are the peculiar wine-produeing qualities of the grape-juice that the juices of other fruits do not possess. So far as flavour is con- cerned, there are many fruits grown in this country that possess richer flavours and finer fragrance than grapes. Currants, gooseberries, cherries, plums, apples, and even rhubarb, all lay claim to decided characteristics of flavour that might be developed in wine, producing a variety of bouquets that should be grateful to the most fastidious palate. But, in defiance of this acknowledged fact, wines made from these fruits are very little appreciated; a cir- cumstance which may be due in a measure to errors of manufacture. In a very elaborate work written upon this subject (The Practical Manufacture of British Wines) the authors lay great stress upon the lack of skill shown in the manufacture of British Wines, and further observe that “ science in its advanced state informs us that the chemistry of wine-making is no longer enveloped in mystery—the whole book lies open before us now, and a careful examination of its pages tells us that the faculty of producing good wine is no longer a monopoly of the grape, but that many, if not all, fruits and vegetables are capable, by the simple assistance that chemistry affords, of producing wines that need differ only from those of the grape in character of bouquet and variety of flavour.” Again, we read, “Although wines made from currants, gooseberries, rhubarb, or what not, might not suit the palates of confirmed drinkers of port, sherry, and Madeira, yet, with the exception of such cases as where the taste has been ensured and substantiated by habits of long practice, it is our contention and honest belief that a distinction could not be drawn ’twixt the two; and that even experts may be, and are, deceived, or deceive; for by a statistical return . . . it is evident that not one-half of the wines retailed in this country as foreign have ever left the shores of Great Britain, or made the acquaintance of grapes. This is especially the case with champagnes and other sparkling wines, in which, if the contents of the bottles could speak, or the manufacturers would, it would lie found that many times more than half were actually compounded of the juices of the fruits we have mentioned.” However correct this sweeping statement may have been at the time the book from which these remarks are taken was written, it must be admitted that further legislation British Wines—continued. has served in a measure to break the back of the nefarious system of substitution that was unhappily practised, and this to the advantage of the consumer and honest merchant alike. Gooseberry and rhubarb wines entered largely into the “ preparation” to which champagnes have been subject almost from their first introduction to this country; and as wines so “ blended ” are preferred by many British consumers, who are wont to select those which are cheapest and sweetest, it would not be very extraordinary should such consumers prefer a wine composed entirely of that which gives to other champagnes the quality they so admire in them. Numerous attempts have been made in England to grow grapes for wine-making, but these have signally failed in almost every case. Evelyn informs us in his Diary that there were vineyards in Kent, Surrey, and Gloucestershire as late as 1655, but he tells us also that although he had the opportunity of tasting some of the very best samples of the wine produced, he found them “ good for little.” This may have been due to the difficulty of ripening grapes in such a cold climate as this, and that therefore the wines consisted largely of the juice of unripe grapes, which is watery, acid, and lacking bouquet or flavour. If every country has its wine-producer, it is evident that grapes are not the wine-producers of Great Britain; there- fore it behoves us to turn to some other fruit which grows freely, ripens readily in a British climate, is sweet, juicy, and otherwise suitable for wine-making. Instinctively we turn to currants, gooseberries, elderberries, rhubarb (which can scarcely be called a fruit), and other fruits, vegetables such as carrot and parsnip, and flowers such as elder, cowslip, and primrose, which will be found described under their various headings; and so, also, will receipts for making raisin, orange, lemon, and ginger wines be found under their respective headings; but these latter can scarcely be termed British Wines, seeing that they are manufactured from foreign fruits. Wines from apples and pears are better known as cider and perry. In the Health Exhibition Handbook on Alcoholic Drinks, the author (Dr. J. L. Thudichum) tells us that before the reduction of the wine duties in 1860 large quantities of wine were made at various places in England from fresh imported grapes, and this wine was ultimately converted into champagne, “ which only differed from real champagne by being made in England, but in all other respects they were genuine wholesome wines of fair quality at their price.” Again, “ grapes are still im- ported into this country to serve as ferments of larger quantities of saccharine matter, mostly in the form of cane sugar,” the wines produced being converted into sherry and port by the addition of “ flavouring and colouring matters,” and alcohol to bring up the strength. Describing different British Wines, Dr. Thudichum says of them, “they are so peculiar and so good, so original in their taste when properly made, and, on account of their cheapness, so useful to many classes of the people, that we think it just and patriotic to put their merits properly before the public.” These remarks are not applicable to the so-called British Wines that are made for the grocers’ shops, and come under the denomination of “ sweets,” being of so low an alcoholic percentage that they do not affect the excise. Such concoctions are in many cases little more than sugary infusions, coloured, flavoured, and very lightly alcoholised. The wines alluded to here are genuine fermented juices of British-grown fruits, some of which are equal to anything the Continent has ever pro- duced, and which can be manufactured in Great Britain and retailed at a price even less than ordinary beer. Under the heading of Fermentation will be found all that is necessary to be known of that magic process, and therein it is explained that in order to set up fermentation the juice of the fruit must contain a just proportion of glucose (grape sugar), ferment, and nitrogenous food for