137 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hauccs, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Biscuits—continued. which have only one apparent characteristic running throughout them, that of being baked brittle or crisp. Pastrycooks and confectioners, both British and foreign, appear to have mutually agreed to retain this feature as the only one necessary to distinguish a tribe of kinds which differ from each other in almost every other par- ticular. So greatly, indeed, do they differ, that it is almost impossible to attempt their classification, passing as they do with rapid strides from dry to sweet, hard to soft, flaky to short, and plain to fancy, or from one combination to another. The simplest Biscuit is, of course, that made of flour, or meal and water, and commonly known as Sea-Biscuit. These are so solid and free from water that Blyth believes them to be more nourishing than bread in the proportion of four to three. They are, however, difficult of digestion, and deficient in fat. During the American War, a manufacturer in Texas (Gail Borden, of Galveston) produced a coarse Biscuit made with meat-juice, which was found very portable and useful by the soldiers employed in that memorable struggle: 101b. of them were said to be sufficient to serve as a man’s whole food for fourteen days. They were made by mixing flour with a strong meat stock instead of water, and were finished in the usual manner prescribed for that class of goods. After soaking in cold water for a few minutes and boil- ing for twenty or thirty minutes longer, they produced a very satisfying soup; but they were not regarded with much favour by the soldiers, and chemists declared that as they contained neither fat nor meat fibrine, they were nothing like so nutritious as they were represented to be by the inventor and manufacturer. In this country the term “ Biscuit ” appears to have a much wider signification than in any other, and they are no longer simply used as foods, but attempts have been made to utilise them as vehicles for medicine. Bragg’s Charcoal Biscuits, for the cure of heartburn and flatulence, are world-renowned, and Biscuits for the de- struction of worms in children are not unknown; but amongst Continental pastrycooks it seems to be a necessity that the paste should contain eggs, flour, and sugar. Careme is said to have made himself famous by preparing a Biscuit paste without eggs, but it is more probable that these “ Biscuits de Careme ” were made famous by having the name of the great cook attached to them, for the culinary fame of Careme extended far away beyond Biscuits. Amongst the more famous of Continental Biscuits are “ Biscuits de Savoy ” and “ Biscuits de Rheims,” of which latter it is said that as many as 18,000doz. have been sold daily, and that Paris alone consumes over 2,555,000doz. yearly. Receipts suitable for making these and others in small quantities will be found in these pages, but the prolific productions of such important manufacturers as Messrs. Huntley and Palmer, Peek, Frean and Co., and others, could only be produced by machinery of the very highest order. Up to the year 1833 the system em- ployed for making Sea-Biscuits for the navy in the Royal Clarence Victualling Yard at Gosport was that of hand work only, and as a consequence the Biscuits produced were of a very inferior quality and exceedingly expensive as compared with those produced since the introduction, in that year, of machinery invented by Mr. Grant, of Gosport. As a description of Grant’s process cannot fail to be instructive, the following has been taken from Tomlinson’s “Encyclopaedia of Useful Arts.” In the first process, the meal is conveyed into a cylinder 4|ft. long and 3ft. 2in. in diameter, and the water is let in from a cistern at the back of the cylinder, regulated by a gauge to the exact quantity required for mixing the meal. In the centre of the cylinder is fitted a shaft armed with knives, and working horizontally. The shaft being set in motion, the knives revolve through the meal and water. During the first half-minute the Biscuits—continued. meal and water do not appear to unite; but after this the dough begins to assume a consistency, and in two minutes 5cwt. of well-mixed dough is produced. The cylinder is formed so that its lower half is easily sepa- rated by means of a wheel and pinion from the upper sides, thereby forming a trough containing the dough, from which it is removed and placed under the breaking- rollers to be kneaded. These rollers, two in number, weigh 15001b. each, and are propelled in such a manner that they pass backwards and forwards over the dough for the space of five minutes, when the 5ewt. of dough is brought into a solid, perfect, and equal consistency. After the breaking-rollers have done their duty the dough is cut into pieces 18in. square, and placed on boards 6ft. long by 3ft. wide, which are conveyed to another machine to be rolled to the required thickness for making the Biscuits. The square of dough being now pressed out to cover the surface of the board, it is forthwith transferred to the cutting and stamping plate, and is at one motion cut and stamped with holes, i.e., docked and incompletely divided into forty-two six-sided Biscuits, which are then in one sheet ready for baking. The ovens Fig. 148. Biscuit-break, and Rubler Combined. (E. Cox’s Design.) are specially constructed, and each one will bake an immense number at once. When done, the Biscuits are easily broken apart by hand, and the saving effected by Government in making Biscuits by this machinery can hardly be calculated, so much do they gain by economy of labour and expedition. Such machinery as that described is, of course, far too elaborate and expensive for minor or domestic use. Other machines have, however, been invented, which are very useful to professional pastrycooks (see Figs. 147, 148).