GO TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ball-Suppers and Refreshments—continued. should be set numerous little marble-topped tables, or tables covered by snowy cloths, surmounted by little cruets, flowers in vases, knives, forks, spoons, glasses, and serviettes. Or, if the space will not admit of these cosy tables, then a few chairs should be set before the buffet for ladies, and the gentlemen will wait upon them and take care of themselves at the same time. In such case, instead of the single serviettes, it would be advisable to hang a row of clean damask cloths along the front of the buffet for gentlemen to wipe their fingers and moustaches upon. Finger-bowls here and there con- taining scented water would be an advantage. What have we on the buffet ? Little fairy lamps supporting tiny bouquets of flowers, and menu cards amongst tall ferns, grasses, and vases of fine flowers—a dozen or more of these cards, according to the company. “ And what will you take ? ” That depends, of course, upon what there may happen to be, as shown by the card. Let it be observed here that a buffet presents a finer effect if decorated with tall flowers, and especially grasses; but should the supper be spread upon a table, then the only tall pieces must be of fruits or confectionery, or the guests will be hidden from each other across the table. But in the case of the buffet, as the maid-servants and the wall only, and perhaps a few piles of empty lates, glasses, and other paraphernalia, are visible ehind, it will be in perfect taste to lay it with a sort of background of noble epergnes, ferns, and foliage plants, provided always that they do not interfere with the serving from behind. In lieu of menu cards, a far better plan is to have each dish of savouries plainly labelled—this does not so much matter for sweets, and is not at all necessary for fruits or biscuits, but applies especially to sand- wiches and aspics. Wines, spirits, and liqueurs, and other beverages, should certainly be plainly marked, and this may prevent disappointment and enable the guest with a choice to get the drink he or she really wishes. Of what shall the viands consist? Handsomely-piled dishes of fruit, such as grapes, with scissors to cut them; pine and melon, cut in slices and served with sugar; oranges, quartered and sugared; and any other juicy fruit, such as apples and pears, that may be in season. Nuts are of course inadmissible. Candied fruits are favourites with ladies, and make pretty little dishes with vanilla chocolates, as a set-off to the olives provided for the gentlemen. Gravy soups, always hot, served in small cups, with sippets, a variety of tasty sandwiches, small patties, rissoles, quenelles, boudins, boned poultry stuffed with savoury minces, salmis, ham and tongue, and cold ribs or round of beef, are available. Oysters, scalloped or plain, served on shell, mayonnaises, macedoines, aspics, galantines, and raised pies. Salads of different kinds, including lobster, celery, cheese straws, cheese souffles, macaroni cheese, and fried mushrooms on toast. In the way of sweets, there are cakes and biscuits in almost any variety. Jellies, creams, ices, served on plates, and ice-puddings, compotes, blancmanges, custards, trifles, vol-au-vents, timbales, minces, meringues, flawns, tartlets, baba-cake, brioches, charlottes, and many other light dishes that are described in these pages. The prevailing idea should be to provide foods which can be eaten without difficulty, either with fork or spoon, or in rare cases with both, or even with a knife; but no bones of any kind should be served to a guest. No savouries of strong-smelling character, such as those prepared with onions or garlic, should be admitted, nor strongly-scented fish; even preparations of cheese might well be discarded. Luscious sweetmeats are not advisable; but a choice should be made of those which give a sweet acid flavour, and may therefore be regarded as refreshing. Lemon ices are preferable to strawberry creams, and so is lemonade to ginger beer. Cooling and thirst-assuaging ices and iced beverages should abound, and these are to be found Ball-Suppers and Refreshments—continued. in syphons of effervescing waters, clarets, vins rouges et blancs, and light sparkling wines which have been stand- ing in ice, such as champagne, hock, and moselle, and claret, cider, and other cups. With such a selection as the foregoing, surely no hostess need be at a loss to provide a supper. Please observe, however, that indi- gestible food, such as salmon, cucumber, radishes, and that style of food, should find no place at a ball. We give a Coloured Plate of a nicely-arranged Ball-Supper Buffet. If a “ sit-down ” supper is decided upon, little or no further remarks are necessary excepting as to decorations, the guests usually taking care of themselves. The servants in attendance should see that as soon as a dish is getting low, it is replaced by a full one. The butler should take similar care of the decanters and claret-jugs. Claret-cup and cider-cup should be at everyone’s call, and be kept covered by a cloth, lest the dust floating in the room should settle upon its surface in the bowl. A plentiful supply of clean plates, glasses, knives, forks, and spoons should be always at hand; and if all the servants do their duty as well as a host and hostess can wish, such a Ball Buffet as we have described should assuredly prove a success. Towards the small hours, tea, coffee, and chocolate with cream should be handed round, accompanied by large plates of rolled bread-and-butter, fingers of cakes, and biscuits. A flask of cognac should accompany the coffee. One word more. As the host and hostess will probably have sufficient upon their hands in making themselves agreeable to their guests, and the guests agreeable to one another, it is advisable, if not imperative, that they should appoint some enthusiastic dancer, gifted also with discretion, to act as master of the ceremonies. But with his duties we have nothing to do, beyond mentioning that it is usual to provide him with a tambourine or gong, by which he can announce the next dance to the company, leaving the host and hostess to look after the more material comforts of the guests. BALLOTTINES.—The name given to dishes pre- pared by mincing game, poultry, or other flesh with forcemeat, ham, and seasoning, and stuffing small birds, such as quails and larks, with the meat thus prepared. These are generally arranged, when highly ornamented, upon socles of fat or rice; being frequently garnished with aspic jelly in colours and a variety of designs. The illustration (Fig. 73) is that of a Ballottine made from a galantine of poultry cooked in the skin of a turkey’s leg. The force- meat is prepared with meat of turkey and bacon in equal parts, mixed afterwards with a salpicon of fat, liver, and raw truffles. These galan- tines are sewn up so as to give them the shape of small hams. When cold, they are masked with a white chandfroid sauce; then on the pointed end with a brown sauce, to imitate the skin of a ham. They are afterwards ornamented, slightly covered over with aspic jelly, decorated with paper frills, and dished up on an elaborate stand made of stearine, fat, or rice. See Fowls, Lamb, Larks, Partridges, Pigeons, Quails, Turkeys, &c. BALLS.—A variety of sweet and savoury prepara- tions are made up in this convenient form, and are described under their various names, such as Oakes, Codfish, Eggs, Forcemeat, &c. BALMORAL CAKES.—See Cakes.