THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. $4 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Asparagus—continued. and lay them for sippets at the bottom of the vegetable-dish, Take out the bundles of Asparagus from the boiling water, using great care to prevent the heads from falling off. Lay the bundles on the toast, and untie them upon it, allowing the Asparagus to fall so that all shall be in one direction on the toast, and the sippet be saturated with the water of the Asparagus. Melted butter with the juice of a lemon in every pint, may be poured over, or served separate in a butter-boat. Oiled butter is sometimes served with As- paragus, especially in Paris and other continental cities. (2) After boiling as above for thirty minutes, take out of the pot, drain, and cut that which is tender into pieces about lin. in length; put these into a flat saucepan, with just enough milk or cream to cover them. Warm up to boiling, and just before serving add 1 tablespoonful of butter, in which 1 teaspoonful of flour has been previously thoroughly rubbed. Season with salt and pepper. Carrots and Asparagus.—See Carrots. Cauliflower and Asparagus Salad.—See Cauliflowers. Preserved Asparagus. — Scrape the required quantity of sticks of Asparagus, clean them, wash thoroughly, drain, tie up into bundles, and cut the ends so as to have them all of one length. Fill a saucepan about three-parts full, add a little pepper, salt, and vinegar, and a few cloves. Set the pan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils, plunge in the bundles of Asparagus and let them blanch. Take them out, drain, put into jars, pour in sufficient strong salt-and-water pickle to cover them, and let them remain in this for a few days. Pour off the pickle, boil and skim it, pour it back again into the jars, let it remain for two or three days, and then pour in oil or hot butter to the depth of about 2in. Cover the jars over with paper first, then with parchment or bladder, and let them remain for about three months in a cool place. Repeat the operation with fresh pickle and oil or butter, cover over the jars again, and the Asparagus is then ready for use. They will remain good for a long time in this pickle. Puree of Asparagus.—Take the tender parts of a large bundle of Asparagus, wash well, heat in boiling water with salt to make them green. When beginning to get tender, drain and put in cold water. When they are cold, drain on a clean towel, and when dry put into a stewpan previously prepared with a small piece of fresh butter, some sprigs of green parsley, and a few green onions; fry them as quickly as possible, to preserve the green colour. Add a lump of sugar, a little salt, sprinkle with 1 table-spoonful of fine flour, and moisten with a good broth. Cool quickly, and rub through a tammy sieve, adding a little spinach-green to colour. A plain puree may be used for soups. Sprue and Eggs.—For this dish take the long, thin, over- grown Asparagus, that is useless for serving in any other way; cut the sticks into lin. lengths, and boil them till tender. Separate the yolks and whites of three eggs or more, according to the quantity of Asparagus, and beat them well; then mix them together with a little butter and cream. Thoroughly drain the Asparagus, then pour the above mixture into the saucepan with it, and toss over the fire till quite hot. Turn the Asparagus into a hot deep dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Stewed Asparagus Points.—Put a little fat bacon or lard into a saucepan over the fire, and when it is melted add a little each of grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, and finely-chopped chervil and parsley. Add the required number of Asparagus heads, moisten with a little stock, and when the heads are cooked, mix in a little beef gravy. Turn the whole on to a dish, and serve. To Warm and Serve Tinned Asparagus.—Open the tin, and stand it over a stove in a shallow stewpan with sufficient water to simmer without boiling over the edges of the tin ; or the tin may be set in a slow oven for a short time. Remove the heads from the tin one by one, lifting them by the white end, and taking great care not to break off the points. Lay them neatly upon toast previously soaked with part of the liquor from the tin. Put the remainder of the liquor or juice in a little sauce- pan, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a squeeze of lemon-juice, salt to taste, and stir up with sufficient flour to make a thin “ melted-butter ” sauce, which pour over, and serve. ■ASPERULE ODORANTE (Asperula odorata).— This plant is variously named, hut is generally known as Woodruff, Wald-meister, and Muguet des Bois. The inhabitants of North Germany value it highly for the fragrant taste imparted by its leaves to a drink which they partake of with much gusto about the time its leaves are fully formed. This being in May, the drink is named accordingly; but it is very little known in this country. Mai-trank is made thus : (1) lib. of pounded white sugar is put into a large bowl, and moistened with a few table-spoonfuls of cold water to dissolve it. To this is added 1 bottle of white Moselle wine, and a pinch of well-washed Asperule leaves, which are permitted to infuse in the liquor for the space of twenty-five minutes. Then the liquid is passed through a strainer into a punch-bowl, and set on ice to cool. (2) Put a dozen black-currant leaves into a glass bowl or mug, add a little woodruff and lemon-juice, and sugar to taste. Pour in 1 pint of moselle or hock, stir well for thirty minutes or so, and it is ready for use. The commonest wine that can be obtained is the best for this, and if any other wines, such as Sauterne, Yin de Grave, &c., are used, they must be diluted with water. This is a very good beverage, and can only be made when the shoots of the woodruff are fresh and tender; that is, from the middle of April to the middle of June. The Asperule odorante is used in France for scenting clothes and wardrobes, and is considered to be a sime preventive against the attacks of moths. ASPIC.—This is the name of a clear savoury .jelly made from meat, which has lately come into very general use in preparing ornamental entrees, decorating hams, pies, and many other tasty dishes. The origin of the name is not distinctly understood, although “ Aspic ” is universally adopted by all Continental countries. Some assert that it owes its title to a small serpent of the Asp species that waits for its prey in a bed of transparent jelly with which it has enshrined itself. “ Cold as an Aspic,” is a common French saying; but it is just possible that the term “ cold ” refers to the jelly rather than to the snake. Other authorities express it as their opinion that Aspic refers to lavender; but that derivation appears to be somewhat exaggerated and far-fetched. As there are so many uses to which Aspic is applied, it is not surprising to find that there are several ways of producing it; but whatever their number may be, they all take their foundation from one source, and that is savoury meat. In preparing “ Aspics,” the art is displayed in the arrangement of fish, flesh, fowl, or game, with truffles, cockscombs, sliced pickles, and the like, and the subsequent inclosing the same in a body of moulded jelly. The jelly may be variously coloured and cut up, or separately moulded, or may undergo a variety of artistic metamorphoses; but in all cases its technical constitu- tion is the same, with this exception—that French cooks generally add tarragon vinegar to them Aspic. Aspic Jelly.—(1) Put two scalded and well-cleaned calf’s feet, chopped up, 41b. of lean veal, 31b. of lean ham, two large onions sliced, three sliced carrots, and lgall. of water into a pot; boil steadily for eight or ten hours — that is to say, until the stock is reduced to about one-half. Strain this into a large stewpan, and stir in the well-beaten whites of four eggs, a large bunch of savoury herbs, three blades of mace (bruised), 1 teaspoonful of white peppercorns, and as much salt as would be necessary to season the stock. Keep it stirred over a stove until nearly boiling; let it simmer for twenty or thirty minutes, and then strain through a stout jelly-bag or clean kitchen cloth, stretched by its corners to the four legs of an inverted chair. If not quite clear and bright, strain again and again until it is. In this state it is ready for use; and if allowed to cool and solidify, it can be re-melted at any time by warming it in a pan. (2) Pack into a stewpan two calf’s feet, chopped into small pieces, a few slices or bits of ham, from which all fat has been removed, the chopped-up carcase of a fowl (as old