THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 20l For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. British Wines—continued. the ferment; other sugar (cane sugar) may he present, and acid in excess, hut these have little or no effect unless the cane sugar (sucrose) becomes converted into grape sugar (glucose), in which case it also becomes fer- mentable. The greater the percentage of fermentable sugar (glucose) in the juice, the higher will be the per- centage of alcohol, provided all things are equally favour- able ; therefore, from the following table, a very shrewd guess may be made at the relative wine-producing values of various fruits : Grapes (Hot-house) Percentage of glucose. ... 17-26 Percentage of sucrose. Apples ... 12-63 2-19 Figs (Black) ... 11-55 Cherries (Black) ... ... 10-00 Grapes (Out-door)... ... 9-42 Pears ... 8-42 0-36 Cherries (White) ... ... 8-25 Currants (White) ... ... 6-40 Strawberries ... 5-86 Raspberries ... 5-22 201 Oranges ... 4-36 4-22 Greengages ... 4-33 1-23 Apricots ... 2-74 6-04 Pineapples... ... 1-98 11-33 Peaches .. 1-07 0-92 Lemons ... 1-06 0-41 Other juices might be mentioned from which wine can be produced, such as that of blackberries, black currants, elderberries, rhubarb, and parsnip; and those flowers which have no wine-making juice, but provide flavour and ferment only, such as cowslip and primrose, in which the proportion of glucose varies considerably. In order to bring these up to the necessary standard, the addition of a proportion of glucose naturally suggests itself, but, unfortunately, there has not yet appeared in the market a glucose sufficiently pure for wine-making, so that there is no alternative but to add pure cane sugar, such as loaf, crystallised, or sugar-candy. This cane sugar undergoes changes when in solution with the juice of the fruit that converts it by a simple process into glucose, i.e., fermentable sugar. The first care of the wine-maker is to prepare the juice, or liquor, commonly called the must. In the case of fresh fruit or vegetables this is done by expressing, in which case a strong wooden press, such as is described under Cider, is invaluable. Should only a small quantity of wine be contemplated, and such a press not be available, then a method of twist- Fic. 213. Squeezing Juice out or Fruit by Twisting Towel. ing in a towel (see Fig. 213) may be found sufficiently efficacious. Dried fruits, such as raisins and grocers' currants, yield their wine-making qualities to maceration in warm water, and flowers give up all that they possess of any value to boiling and infusing. The next step is to ascertain the saccharine value of British Wines—continued. the must, and this can only be effected by a saccharo- meter. Should this register 12deg., a very good per- centage of alcohol may be expected, and anything below that, the alcohol will be in proportion. Having settled this to your satisfaction, by adding more sugar if the saccharine degree is too low, or more water—called “ liquor ”—if, in your estimation, the saccharine degree is too high, put the must into a barrel standing upright on a stand, with a tap set in it about Gin. from the Fig. 214. Domestic Ferme.nting-tun. head upon which it is resting (see Fig. 214). This tun should be located in a covered chamber where it will be possible to regulate the warmth of the air and keep it at about 78deg. to BOdeg. Fahr. Lay the cover (a mat does very well) over, and in the course of a day or two a creamy froth will appear on the surface, and then bubbling will quickly follow, and continue until fer- mentation subsides. As ‘fermentation proceeds, the fruit- fibre that is certain to be floating in the juice will rise to the top and form a sort of “ head ” or “ cap.” This should be occasionally pressed down under the fluid. When fermentation has subsided, the wine should be drawn off into clean casks, and bunged down, when it will usually clear itself ; but in some cases artificial clarification is advisable. Let these casks be stored in a moderately warm cellar, and in the course of a few months the wine, which always improves with keeping, will be ready for bottling. As regards setting up fermentation, it may be explained that the juices of all fresh fruits, and some dried ones, carry their own ferments, and only require a suitable temperature (78deg. Fahr.) to start by themselves; but others, such as rhubarb or parsnip wine, require some assistance, and it is then advisable to stir up in the must some fresh yeast, or purified German yeast (see Yeast), to the extent of, say, ^ pint of fresh yeast, or diluted German, to the 36galls. of must. The result is in this way attained more expeditiously and certainly. Information on all other subjects connected with wine- making, clarifying, storing, bottling, &c., will be found under the specific heads, and also receipts for special wines, together with any variations of the process of manufacture that are advocated by experienced wine- producers. BROAD BEANS.—See Beans.