63 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Bacon—continued. to be well rubbed with common salt, but the fleshy side will require considerably more rubbing than the skin. Some curers use after the first salting a mixture of salts in these proportions: 31b. or 41b. of common salt, £lb. of saltpetre, and lib. of coarse sugar or treacle, and this “ pickle ” gives to the Bacon a flavour that is much admired by good judges. It is usual to dry the salt in an old frying- pan over the fire before using. When the process of rubbing is completed, the flitches have to be placed in the pickling- trough upon each other, skin side downwards, and the next day it is as well to rub salt into them again. They should be left in the trough for a month or six weeks, according to the size of the flitches and the state of the weather (cold weather requiring longer time). Repeat the rubbing process four or five times at intervals of about a week. Fig. 61. Pig Marked Out for Cutting-up for Bacon. The next step is to dry them by hanging them up high over a kitchen fireplace, or in some other equally warm and draughty place. When they are hard and firm, they may be removed to racks or hooks prepared for their reception near the kitchen ceiling. In old farm-houses the kitchen chimney is well adapted to the curing of Bacon, and the constantly open door permits a draught through, which removes any superfluous heat that might rise to the ceiling or rafters and injure the Bacon by turning it “ rusty.” Exposure to the sun will also turn Bacon rusty, and must therefore be carefully avoided. Some slight variations of the foregoing process are prac- tised in different parts of the country, but they are not sufficiently important to require special description. See Curing, Pickle, &c. Bacon, Salted, Dried, and Smoked.—For this the salting and drying process is precisely the same as that just described, the only difference being in the next step, which is smoking. In London it is unusual to meet with any Bacon but that which has been smoked, but in some of our large midland cities and towns “ green ” Bacon finds the readier sale. The smoke is generally that of burning wood or straw (in America hickory chips and corn-cobs are used). Woods containing resins, such as pine, are not advisable, as they would give an unpleasant flavour to the Bacon. The plan usually adopted is to dry the flitches slowly over the smoke made by burning sawdust of oak or beech. The fire may be kept up night and day by smothering with dry saw- dust. In some parts of the country drying and smoking are practised as a regular trade, and sums are charged for smoking Bacon varying from 4d. to 6d. for a ham, and lOd. or Is. for flitches; and this convenience is widely appreciated in rural districts. The flitches should be hung up high until quite dry, but not so hard that the rind begins to peel off. Sometimes the rubbing over of the flitch with bran is advocated; but it cannot judiciously be recommended, for it encourages flies to settle upon the Bacon, and lay their eggs there, which produce maggots. This may be prevented to some extent by wrapping in paper or suspending in calico bags. To Choose Bacon.—The best Bacon is that which has a thin rind, agreeable odour, firm, consistent fat, with a slight tint of red about it; the lean should be red and bright, tender, and fast on the bone. Do not buy Bacon with yellow fat, for that means that it is “ rusty.” To test the quality of Bacon, a knife or skewer should be thrust into the meat close to or along a bone, and if it smells sweet when withdrawn, and the flesh is moderately firm, it is sure to be fresh and good. Bacon—continued. As to the choice of the different parts of Bacon, much is due to the purpose for which the Bacon may be required, and something to fancy. The streaky covering of the rib bones is generally preferred for ordinary use, or as breakfast rashers, and commands the highest price, although in all other animals this part is the least esteemed, and consequently the cheapest. Fig. 62. a, b, and c, constitute the Entire Side; A and B, or B and C, are a Three-quarter Side ; A, Fore-end, weighing about 181b.; B, Middle, 351b. ; c, Gammon with Corner, 141b. Fig. 63. D, e, f, Middle, cut through into three pieces, each weighing about 121b. p o n M Fig. 64. G, Fore Hock, weighing about 101b.; H, Thick Streaky, or Middle Cut, 81b.; J, Thin Streaky, 61b.; K, Flank, 3J,lb.; L, Gammon, 101b.; M, Corner of Gammon, 41b.; N, Long Loin, 81b.; o. Back and Ribs, 81b.; P, Collar, 71b. X W V U T S FIG. 65. Q, Top of Thick Streaky, weighing about 31b.; r, Prime Thick Streaky, or Middle Cut, 6ilb.; S, Leanest part of Loin, 21b.; T, Loin, 61b.; u, Back Ribs, prime cut, 61b.; v, Thick Back, 21b.; w, Prime part of Collar, 51b.; x, End of Collar, 21b. PLANS OF A FLITCH OF BACON OF 64lb. For lean Bacon, the back or gammon would be selected; and for cheapness, the fore hock, or fore end, would serve best, especially for boiling for family use. Part of the thick flank also doe3 very well for boiling. The above diagrams (Figs. 62 to 65) explain the parts into which a flitch is generally sub-divided.