THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 234 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, 1 table-spoonful of cinna- mon, two well-beaten eggs, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in 1 teacupful of milk, and a little over 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour. Pour into well-buttered tins to a depth of 2in. Sprinkle a layer of currants on the top, and some preserved ginger cut in thin slices ; cover again, add more fruit, and continue until all the batter is used. Bake for two hours in a moderate oven. Derby Cakes.—Bub lib. of butter well into 2.\lb. of flour, and add lib. of caster sugar; beat two eggs in 1 tcacupful of milk and 3 table-spoonfuls of honey-water, and mix with the flour, adding |lb. of washed and dried currants. Put into small moulds, and bake in a moderate oven. Derby Short Cakes.—Take til), of butter and lib. of flour, an^ rub them together till quite smooth; then mix in ilb. of caster sugar, one beaten egg, and \ pint of milk. Dust some flour over a board, and roll the paste out on it till quite thin, then cut it into small fancy shapes of any description; brush over the top of each with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, and dust some caster sugar over them; butter some tin dishes, put the Cakes on them, and bake them about ten minutes in a quick oven. These Cakes are nice eaten either hot or cold. Derwentwater Cakes.—Bub fib. of fresh butter into lib. of flour; put in ^lb. of washed and dried currants and |lb. of caster sugar; beat the yolks of four eggs and whisk the whites to a froth. Mix them with the flour to make a stiff paste. Boll out to iin. thick, cut in small rounds, and bake on a greased baking-sheet in a slow oven for about twenty minutes. Dessert Cakes.—Mix thoroughly £lb. of butter beaten to a cream, with an equal weight of caster sugar, the same of ground rice, and teaspoonful of baking-powder. Beat up thoroughly three eggs and stir them in. Butter some small Cake-tins, pour the mixture into them, and bake for ten or twelve minutes in a quick oven. Devonshire Cakes.—Bub well into 41b. of fine flour lib. of clotted cream, or butter warmed and beaten to a cream; add fib. of moist sugar, lib. of washed and dried currants, fib. of candied lemon-peel cut small, and a grating or two of nut- meg. Beat two eggs in 1 pint of warm milk, steep | drachm of saffron in boiling water, let it stand for an hour, then strain off and mix in, adding f pint of fresh yeast to the mix- ture. Cover over till next morning. Then work it up together again, and put it into greased tins which hold about 111b. Bake in a quick oven for an-hour-and-a-half. Digestive Cakes.—Put Jib. each of sifted flour and sugar into a basin, add gradually six well-beaten eggs, stir well with a wooden spoon while adding them, work briskly for ten minutes, pour the mixture into a pastry-bag, squeeze out on to buttered and floured baking-sheets, cut in small rounds, put a small bit of anise (or a few aniseeds) on the tops of them, bake in a moderate oven, and use them when cold. Dimple Cakes.—Mix thoroughly together the whites of three eggs and fib. of sugar; stir in almonds, blanched and cut fine. Drop on tins, and bake in a slow oven. Domino Cakes.—Bake some sponge Cake batter in a rather thin sheet; cut into dominoes, and ice them on the top and sides. When hard, dip a brush in melted chocolate, and draw the lines and make the dots with it. They can be arranged very prettily with crystallised fruit (see Fig. 265). Dover Cake.— Slightly warm fib. of butter, and beat it till creamy with lib. of caster sugar; mix in four eggs, beat a few minutes longer, then add f pint of milk, 1 wineglassful of brandy, f wineglassful of rose- or orange-flower water, half a grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon; put 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a very small quantity of hot water, stir it till dissolved, then mix it with the other ingredients. Beat in as much flour as will make a batter as stiff as that generally used for pound Cake ; con- tinue beating till quite smooth. Butter a Cake-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a quick oven for an hour or longer. A sheet of paper should be put over the Cake after it has been in the oven for a few minutes. Dream Cake.—Mix If teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and f teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with 2f breakfast-cupfuls of flour. Bub about 2oz. of warmed butter to a cream, add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, beat well, add 1 teacupful Cakes—continued. of milk and the flour alternately, a little at a time. Beat up the whites of eight eggs, and mix altogether with 1 tea- spoonful of almond flavouring. Bake in three shallow pans. Make an ornamental frosting, flavouring one part with lemon, another with rose, and the third with vanilla. Frost each Cake separately, put them together one on top of the other, and grate some fresh cocoanut over and between them. Drop Cakes.—(1) Mix well together six eggs, lib. of sugar, fib. of warmed butter, 1 tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and lqt. of flour. Put small quantities on a greased baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. (2) Beat the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two with fib. of sugar for twenty minutes or lialf-an-hour. Then mix in gradually If breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 table-spoonful each of thinly-shred candied orange- and lemon-peel, and the grated peel of half a lemon. Stir the ingredients until well mixed. Dredge a baking-sheet with flour, drop the mixture on it in small quantities, and bake them until lightly browned in a moderate oven. Duchess Cakes a la Datissiere.—Warm loz. of butter and beat it till creamy with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then mix well with it 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, the finely- minced peel of half a lemon, a small quantity of dried orange- flowers, 1 pinch of salt, and the whites of two eggs. Beat the yolks with £ pint of cream, then mix this in also. Butter some small moulds and three-parts fill them with the Cake mixture; put them in the oven and bake. When cooked, turn the Cakes out of the moulds on to a hot dish, sift some caster sugar over them, and serve. Duchess Cakes.—Put loz. of flour into a basin and mix it till smooth with an egg; pound six macaroons, mix them with the flour, add 4oz. of caster sugar, 1 pinch of salt, the beaten yolks of six eggs, and lastly one whole egg. Stir the above ingredients well till thoroughly incorporated; then mix in 1 pint of thick cream, some strips of citron, a handful of well-washed and dried currants, 1 teaspoonful of chopped angelica, and a few glazed cherries and preserved orange- flower leaves. Butter some small moulds, fill them with the mixture, and bake them in a moderate oven. When cooked, glaze the Cakes with white sugar and serve them while very hot. Dundee Cake.—Put lib. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat in lflb. of crushed loaf sugar, 1-Jlb. of flour, 21b. of candied peel cut into small squares, and lastly thirteen eggs. Beat until light, but not too light, turn it into a mould, decorate the top with comfits, entirely covering it, and bako in a moderate oven until done. If it is beaten too light the comfits will sink, and the effect be spoiled. Turn it out, and serve hot or cold. Dutch Solac Cake.—Put lib. of dried flour into a basin and mix with it f teacupful of fresh yeast and sufficient water to make a sponge. Cover the sponge with a cloth, and set it in a warm place until well risen. Blanch and chop 2oz. of sweet almonds, and cut 2oz. each of candied orange- and lemon-peel into fine shreds. Warm -Jib. of butter and beat it well with fib. of sugar, also beat well three eggs, and mix