14 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Almonds—continued. and the Soup would be spoilt. A bowl of cold cream whipped to a froth, and a table-spoonful of it dropped into each soup- plate when being served, is a great improvement. Almond Sponge Biscuits.—Crack twelve eggs separately into a teacup, and having ascertained that each is good, as you break it, pour them all into a large kitchen basin, and beat up with a whisk until thoroughly mixed; then add by degrees lib. 2oz. of fine caster sugar, and beat in until the sugar is quite dissolved. Then add lib. 3oz. of fine pastry flour, and work into a light dough. Have ready sufficient sponge-cake or other convenient small moulds; warm them, and butter the inner surfaces neatly. Fill level to the rims with the dough, dust over the top with caster sugar, lay over them some chopped blanched Almonds, and bake in a moderate oven. Almond Sponge Cake —Take lib. of ground Sweet Almonds, and mix with the whites of three eggs ; add a teaspoonful of grated lemon-rind, lib. of caster sugar, and the yolks of fifteen eggs, well whisked. Then take the whites of twelve eggs, whip them to a froth, and stir them in. Next sift in slowly, beating all the time, jib. of dried flour; pour this into a tin, care- fully buttered and dusted with caster sugar, until it is half full, put it into the oven, and hake for an hour. When done, turn it out and set it on a sieve to cool. See Sponge Cakes. Almond Tablets.—Dissolve lib. of loaf-sugar in a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, set the saucepan on the fire, and boil quickly until the sugar candies (see Sugar-boiling). Add a small quantity of cream of tartar and 6oz. of Almonds, blanched, cut into shreds, and dried or toasted in the oven. Butter or oil a flat tin dish, pour in the mixture, and when it is cool, mark it in the shapes required with a blunt knife. When it is quite cold, turn it out and break it into tablets, which are then ready for use. Almond Tartlets. -— Line a dozen tartlet-moulds with paste, cut the paste on the rims of the moulds, then mask the bottom with a thin layer of marmalade. Pound 6oz. of blanched Almonds, dried in the oven, mixing up by degrees the same amount of fine sugar, a little orange or lemon zest, and the yolks of six eggs. Bemove this from the mortar, put it into a kitchen basin, and work up with it eight whipped whites of eggs. Pill the tartlets, sprinkle them over with fine sugar, and bake in a slack oven for twenty-five to thirty minutes. Almond Wafers.—Blanch and pound to a pulp in a mortar fib. of Sweet Almonds, and beat them up with two eggs; sift in gradually, whilst still beating, 1 teacupful of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of fine flour. Add 2 or 3 drops of essence of lemon. Butter lightly a warmed, clean baking-sheet, and spread the mixture with a spatula very thinly and evenly over it. Put into a quick oven, and bake a pale brown. Bemove to the table, cut the paste with a knife into oblongs, and roll each one lengthwise round a piece of round stick about jin. in diameter. Let them get cold and hard, and then remove the sticks. These wafers are very useful as a garnish for creams and other light, sweet entremets. Almond Walnut Biscuits.—To make these, special moulds or stamps are required—one for the half-kernel, and the other for the half-shell (see Fig. 17). (Note.—These moulds may be purchased of any culinary- utensil manufacturers.) Use the same paste as for Almond Birds’-nest Biscuits, roll it ^-in. thick, cut out the shapes with the moulds, place each on greased paper, and let stand for a day. Then bake the shells dark and the kernels much lighter, and join the two neatly together with icing, placing them afterwards in a very slow oven for a few minutes to set. Amandines.—Put fib. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat it to a cream with fib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Add gradually 3oz. of Bitter Almonds, blanched and pounded in a mortar with a little rose-water; next add sufficient flour to make a thick paste, and stir in lastly the whites of Almonds—continued. twelve eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Half-fill small buttered cups or tins with the mixture, and bake them in a quick oven for about half-an-hour. Turn them out, decorate some of them with chopped pistachio kernels, and some with cochi- neal, sugar, or sugar-icing, and they are ready for use. Apple and Almond Pudding1.—See Apples. Burnt Almond Charlotte B-usse.—Line a plain mould with finger biscuits as for other charlottes. Chop up finely fib. of best Almonds, and brown them by boiling in fib. of sugar; cool them on a baking-sheet, pound them thoroughly in a mortar, adding after, as you stir in a pan on the fire, lqt. of cold milk; press through a tammy cloth or stout napkin. Steep loz. of isinglass in 1 gill of tepid water. Put the Almond Cream into a stew-pan with eight beaten yolks of eggs, add fib. of finely-powdered sugar, and stir over the fire until it thickens; pour into a kitchen basin, and stir in the solution of isinglass, after straining it; pack the basin in broken ice, and stir the mixture slowly until it begins to freeze. As soon as it shows symptoms of congelation, pour it carefully into the biscuit-lined mould, and cover it with a thin sheet of tin, a baking-sheet, or a plate, with ice piled on it, and leave it thus for an hour or so longer, or till wanted ; it may then be turned out on to a glass dish, and garnished with crystallised fruits. Burnt Almonds and Orange Ice.—1st Mixture: Chop 2oz. of blanched Almonds, and melt 2 table-spoonfuls of coarsely- pounded sugar in a sugar-boiler; add the chopped Almonds, and stir over the fire until they are red-brown, when they must be spread on a baking-sheet to hai-den. Boil If pints of rich cream. Put the beaten yolks of six eggs into a stewpan with fib. of pounded sugar, stir in the hot cream, and continue to stir over the fire or stove until the mixture thickens. Pound the Burnt Almonds as finely as possible in a mortar, and then add them to the cream, stirring briskly. 2nd Mixture : Take 1 pint of syrup at 18 deg. by the saccharo- meter, and rasp into it the thin rind (zest) of eight oranges. Squeeze the juice of sixteen oranges, and dilute with f pint of water; tinge with carmine, and dissolve in it 1 table- spoonful of citric acid. Strain this mixture through a pointed strainer. Whisk in thoroughly the white of one egg. Freeze the two ices separately in a freezer (see Ices), and mould together in layers when serving. These cream ices are declared to be exquisitely delicious. Cannelons of Almond Baste.—Make a good Almond Paste by pounding in a mortar fib. of Sweet Almonds, blanched and peeled, using a little white of egg to moisten them and prevent oiling when pounding. When thoroughly pounded, mix with them fib. of caster sugar and two eggs, one beaten in at a time. Make some good puff paste, and roll it out, about fin. in thickness. Divide the Almond Paste into equal-sized portions, 2in. long and lin. wide, cover over with paste and stick the edges well together by wetting, cut them apart, and fry them in hot fat. When they are done, drain them and sift a little caster sugar over the tops; then serve. Essence of Bitter Almonds, or Almond Flavouring.— This favourite flavouring is prepared by dissolving the oil of Bitter Almonds with a large proportion of spirits of wine. As these flavourings require great care in selecting and making up, they are generally bought in bottles, ready mixed for use, from druggists’ and other domestic stores. Almond Flavouring is stated to contain prussic acid, but it has been satisfactorily shown that the peculiar Almond flavour does not depend upon the presence of this poisonous acid, hence successful attempts have been made to supply the flavour deprived of the deleterious ingredient. Forcemeat of Almonds.—Put 1 teacupful of cream into a basin, and beat it up with the yolks of three eggs and a little grated nutmeg to flavour it. Put 3oz. of blanched Sweet Almonds into a mortar, and pound them well, adding sufficient white of egg to moisten them. Put this into the cream mixture with 3oz. of butter, broken into small pieces, and 12oz. of finely- sifted breadcrumbs. Put the whites of the three eggs into a basin, whisk them to a stiff froth, and stir them into the other mixture, when it will be ready for use. Pithiviers Almond Cake.—Pithiviers is the name of a town in France celebrated for lark pies, Almond Cakes, honey, and Fig. 17. Almond Walnut Biscuit.