125 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. cupfuls of rich gravy, and stew gently on the side of the fire for a quarter-of-an-hour or until done. Put them on a dish, score them on the top, pour the liquor round them, and serve with slices of lemon for garnish. (3) Chop fine lib. of lean veal, half that quantity of ham, and a small quantity of Beef-marrow or suet, mixing in any trimmings of cooked fowl that may be available; put the mixture into a mortar, and pound it well ; then mix in loz. of chopped boiled truffles and a bunch of sweet herbs; sprinkle the forcemeat with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and form the whole into a mass by adding the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. Cut off three steaks, about Jin. in thickness and lOin. long, trim them as nearly square as possible, cover them over with the forcemeat, and roll them up tightly, fastening them with thick tape or string; dredge them well with flour, put them into a saucepan, and brown them in butter : strain off the butter, add 1 breakfast-cupful of mushrooms, four chopped shallots, a lump of butter kneaded with flour, salt and pepper to taste, and pour in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of rich gravy and half that quantity of port wine ; cover over the pan, and cook gently for about an hour. Take out the meat, remove the string, put it on a diBh, skim off the fat from the sauce, pour it over the meat, and serve. A few forcemeat balls, fried in butter, should accompany this dish. Boiled Flank of Beef.—This will require 41b. or 51b. of a fine flank (Fig. 102, 7). Wipe nicely, tear off the skin and thin membrane, and cut away all superfluous fat. Beat and trim to a uniform thickness, and then make a stuffing as follows: 1 breakfast-cupful of biscuit-crumbs, 2 table- spoonfuls of finely-chopped salt pork or bacon, J teaspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful each of thyme, marjoram, and sage, J saltspoonful of pepper, half an onion chopped fine, and one egg. Mix all these ingredients, and moisten with hot water until soft enough to spread over the meat. When this is done, roll it up firmly, tie round and round securely, wrap a cloth around it, put it into boiling water, and simmer six hours, or until tender. Remove the cloth, put a weighted board upon it to press it, and when it is cold remove the strings. Serve in thin slices. Corned flank may be prepared in the same way. The stuffing may be omitted, and the meat covered with vinegar, spiced and flavoured with onion and cloves; and after remaining in the pickle several hours, it may then bo rolled, and boiled as above. Boiled Larded Fillet of Beef to resemble Boasted Hare.—Put a fillet of Beef into a bowl, and pour over it 1 wineglassful each of port wine and vinegar ; let it soak in this for twenty-four hours. Take it out, cover it over with highly-seasoned forcemeat, roll it into the shape of a trussed hare, lard it with strips of bacon, and suspend it from a spit in front of a clear fire. Put 1 wineglassful more of port wine and vinegar into the basting-dish with a little pounded allspice, baste the meat frequently with it, and roast until done, allowing fifteen minutes to each pound of meat. When done, put it on a hot dish, pour round hot rich gravy, and serve with red-currant jelly. This is a very savoury dish. Boulade of Beef.—Procure a fino brisket of Scotch Beef (Fig. 102, 13), roll it up, and tie securely. Put into a saucepan one peeled onion, one well-washed and scraped carrot, both cut in thin slices, one sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, three cloves, and a few shreds of fat bacon, and place the roulade of Beef on the top ; season with salt and pepper, cover the pan very tightly to prevent steam from escaping, and set a weight on top of the lid. Place it on a moderate fire, and simmer gently for twenty minutes in all. Remove the lid, and add 2 wineglassfuls of white wine | and 1 gill of broth. Cover very tightly again, place the pan in the hot oven, and braise for fully two hours; remove it | from the oven, untie it, and place it on a hot dish. Skim off the fat from the gravy, strain it into a saute-pan, and reduce it on the hot range to one-half. Have ready loz. of cooked smoked ox-tongue cut into fancy shapes, one good-sized sliced truffle, six veal-forcemeat quenelles, and six mushrooms; put them all into a saute-pan on the fire, with J wineglassful of Madeira wine, and boil for one minute; strain the reduced gravy of the roulade over this, I Beef—continued. and add J gill of tomato sauce and J gill of Spanish sauce. Cook again for five minutes, then pour it into a sauceboat, and serve with the meat, having them both very hot. Bump of Beef d. la Portugaise.—Remove the bone from a rump of Beef (Fig. 102, 2), cut the meat into two pieces, a thick and a thin, dust the thin with flour, and cook it in a frying-pan. Scald, peel, and chop fine, two dozen chestnuts, mix them up with 4oz. of shred Beef-suet, one boned anchovy, one onion, a sprig of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste, and make the mixture stiff by adding the yolks of two eggs. Stuff the thick end of the rump with this, put it into a saucepan, and pour over 1 breakfast- cupful of white wine and Jgall. of rich broth. Add a finely- chopped clove of garlic, cover over the pan, and cook gently on a slow fire for about four hours. When done, put it in the centre of a dish, cut the thin end in halves, place one at either end of the dish, and put them in the oven or near the fire to keep hot. Strain the liquor into another saucepan, skimming off the fat, add 1 table-spoonful of browning, a few pickled cucumbers cut in slices, another couple of dozen chestnuts scalded and peeled, and a lump of butter kneaded with flour. Put the saucepan on the fire, boil until the liquor is smooth, season with cayenne, salt and pepper, pour it over the Beef, and serve with a garnish of slices of lemon and fried oysters. Bump-steaks Stewed in Wine.—Put two rump-steaks, weigh- ing about lib. each, into a basin, pour over 3 teacupfuls of port wine and one of cider, and add a dozen whole peppers, half a blade of mace, and salt to taste. Let them remain in this for a couple of days, turning them frequently. Put them with the liquor into a saucepan over a clear fire, and stew for about four hours, turning the meat frequently. Pour in 1 teacupful of rich gravy, and boil for a few minutes ; then put the steaks on a dish, pour the liquor over, and serve very hot. Salad of Cold Boiled Beef.—Cut up 1 Jib. of cold boiled Beef into small squares, after removing all the gristle and fat; put these pieces into a salad-bowl, with 1 teaenpful of cold Beef-broth, 2 table-spoonfuls of malt vinegar, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, and a free sprinkling of pepper, and set to macerate for three hours. Before serving, add 4 table- spoonfuls of oil, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped ravigote, and more seasoning if required. Minced or sliced onions and shallots are sometimes added to this salad. Salted Beef.—(1) All meat takes salt faster in warm weather than in cold. First rub it with pounded saltpetre, to give the scarlet tinge to tho inside (but too much must not be used, for fear of turning the meat hard, loz. being enough for a joint from 71b. to 81b.); then lay the Beef in the salting- pan and cover it completely with common salt well heaped over it. Turn the meat every day, and ladle it with the brine which forms in tho pan. Beef so salted is more delicate than when plunged into a ready-made brine; which plan, howovor, has its advantages when several pieces are salted at once, as well as in hot weather, when flies are troublesome. Tho addition of sugar for salting Beef is a matter of taste ; it is usually reserved for meat intended to bo dried, hung, or smoked. (2) After being carefully examined and wiped, tho meat should be sprinkled with water and hung for a few hours before being rubbed with salt; this cleanses it from blood, and improves the delicacy of the flavour. The salt should be rubbed in evenly ; first, half of the quantity, and after two days tho remainder. The meat should be turned every day, kept covered with the pickle, and rubbed daily. If required, the brine will serve for more than one parcel of meat, if it be boiled, skimmed, and used cold. In salting, tho brisket and fat ribs should be “jointed,” so as to let in the salt, which should also be rubbed well into each piece. The meat should then be put down tightly in the pan, the prime pieces at the bottom, and covered with salt; the coarse at the top, to be used first. Delamere recom- mends tho following brine : To 3galls. of spring water add filb. of common salt, 21b. of bay-salt, 21b. of common loaf sugar, and 2oz. of saltpetre. Boil these over a gentle fire; take off the scum as it rises, and let it stand till quite cold before you put the Beef in.