10 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, ctee., referred to, see under their special heads. Almonds—continued. Put I2 pints of cream into a basin, and whip well until there is only 5 pint left, the remainder being in a stiff froth. Put 1 pint of blanched Sweet Almonds into a mortar, pound them well, mix in the unwhipped cream, and add three eggs beaten up with 1 teacupful of sugar. Put the whole into a saucepan, and stir well over the fire until the preparation commences to thicken. Add the gelatine, remove the pan from the fire, pour the whole through a sieve into a basin, and add 5 teaspoonful of Essence of Almonds. Whisk well until the mixture thickens, then add the whipped cream, stir well, and pour the cream into moulds, packed in ice. When it is set and firm, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Whipped cream should accompany it. Almond Birds’-nest Biscuits.— Prepare some paste as for Almond Faggots, or as follows: Blanch and pound lib. of Sweet Almonds with lib. of caster sugar and a few drops of essence of lemon, and make into a paste with yolks of eggs. To form the nests, roll out the paste thickly, and divide equally into pieces to form round balls the size of a large walnut, which arrange on a greased baking-sheet. Make a depression in the centre of each ball with any convenient round-ended instru- ment of about .'in. diameter, forming with this the hollow of the nest; drop three or four white confits into it, to represent eggs (see Fig. 11), and bake in a moderate oven. When baked a light brown, and cold, pipe round the rim of the nest with sugar icing; then lift each nest between the fingers and thumb, and dip it lightly into some very finely shredded pistachio kernels, so that the icing may take up enough to give the rim of the nest a very pretty chevaux- de-frise appearance. These nests may be used for garnishing, or other artistic decoration. Almond Biscuits.—(1) Blanch and pound 2oz. each of Bitter and Sweet Almonds, adding a few drops of orange-flower water to prevent them from oiling. Beat up the yolks of two eggs, and mix in jib. of caster sugar; add the Almond pulp, and sufficient flour to form a stiff paste, and roll out to ^in. thick. Cut into shapes with a pastry-cutter or the rim of a wineglass, and bake on a greased baking-sheet until a light brown. (2) Into lilb. of fine pastry flour rub lib. of fresh butter, and mix in lib. of caster sugar. Pound 2oz. of blanched Bitter Almonds to a pulp, and add to the mixture of flour, butter, and sugar, making the whole into a stiff paste with three well- beaten eggs. Mix and knead thoroughly, adding a little milk, milk-and-water, or water, if required. Boll out thin, cut into shapes, dock (see Biscuits), and bake in a quick oven. (3) Blanch and pound to a pulp jib. of Bitter Almonds, grate off the outer skin of two lemons, and beat six yolks and three whites of eggs together. Beat up 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar with the remaining three whites. Put a baking-sheet into the oven to heat; grease it very lightly, when quite hot, with a piece of rag dipped in butter; paint over the surface with a large paste-brush dipped in the whites of the eggs. Two or three coats of white will be required to make the “ wafer-paper,” as the white is called, sufficiently thick. Bub 3oz. of fresh butter into lib. of fine flour; mix in the Almond pulp, grated lemon-rind, and lib. of caster sugar, and form into a stiff paste with the beaten eggs. Boll out this paste to ;lin. thick, and cut into rounds, laying each one separately and apart on the prepared baking-sheet. Put into a quick oven until they are baked a light brown ; remove from the oven, and divide the white of eggs on the baking-sheet with the point of a sharp knife between the biscuits, and when cold take up each biscuit by itself, and trim the white round with a pair of scissors. Almond Blancmanger. —Blanch fib. of Jordan Almonds and l,oz. of Bitter ones. Pound them in a mortar, and add lqt. of water. Strain through a tammy cloth into a basin. Put ilb. of sugar and If pints of water into a stewpan, and stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, when it is well to Fig. 11. Almond Bird's-nest Biscuit. Almonds—continued. strain through a silk sieve. When cool, this should be stirred into the Almond milk with 2oz. of gelatine dissolved in it, or vice versa, and the addition of a teaspoonful of orange-flower water is an improvement. Fill a mould with the mixture, and set in ice for at least two hours. It may be turned out then and served. Almond Bread.—Blanch and pound 8oz. of Sweet and loz. of Bitter Almonds, put them in a basin, and mix with lib. 2oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Bub the mixture through a sieve into another basin, and add the grated rind of a lemon, 2oz. of flour, and sufficient yolk of egg to make them all into a light soft paste or batter. Pour the mixture into well- buttered shallow tins to about 2in. in depth, bake gently in a slack oven until done, and it is ready for use. Almond Cakes.—Mix |lb. of warmed butter with |lb. of caster sugar until it presents a creamy appearance; then work in gradually five beaten eggs. Having done this thoroughly, mix in lightly 2oz. of ground Sweet Almonds, with a few ground Bitter ones amongst them, a wineglassful of brandy, and 6oz. of flour. Pour this cake about l|in. deep into a baking-sheet, previously buttered, and put it into a quick oven to bake. When the cake is nearly done, spread the following mixture over it: £lb. of chopped Almonds, 2oz. of caster sugar, and half the white of an egg, which must be well whipped. Beturn to the oven, and finish baking to a nice light brown colour. When done, the cake should be turned out and allowed to get cold; when it can be cut up in strips, and these into diamond shapes Fig. 12. Method of Cutting a Strip into Diamonds. (see Fig. 12), and built up like a pyramid on a fancy dish- paper or napkin. Sometimes whipped cream is served on the centre of each diamond. Almond Carrot and Turnip Biscuits. — These are very easily made, and most useful for ornamenting sweet entremets. They are shaped by hand out of the same paste as is used for the Almond Walnuts and Nests, the one resembling small spring carrots, and the other turnips, about the size of large radishes. Into the crests of each, where the leaves should be, place a piece of thin stick, with a length of string attached to it, by which the shapes are to be suspended and left for twenty-four hours to dry, and then put into a moderate oven to bake. Have ready a Fig. 13. Almond Carrot and Turnip Biscuit. breakfast-cupful of liquid sugar icing coloured red and another plain white. Hip the carrots in the red, and the turnips in the white, and hang them up again to dry. When the icing is