216 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Butter—continued. There is a practice very prevalent of making from salt Butter a so-called fresh Butter. Irish salted Butter of a very inferior quality is used for this purpose. This is repeatedly washed with water in order to free it from the salt, which being accomplished, the next process is to wash it frequently with milk, and the manufacture is completed by the addition of a small quantity of sugar. Wheat-flour, oatmeal, pea-flour, &c., are also said to be used for the sophistication of Butter, but such adultera- tions are extremely rare. M. Chevallier gives the following as a list of the adulterants found in French Butters: Chalk, potato- starch, cooked potatoes, wheat-flour, good Butter mixed with Butter of an inferior quality, carbonate or acetate of lead, saffron, juice of carrot, alkanet, flowers of marigold, aspergrallus berries, the fruit of the winter cherry, and the juice of celandine to give it a yellow colour. Before describing the various preparations to which Butter, in some form or other, is subjected by cooks for culinary purposes, the following hints will be found of considerable value. Butter Prepared in Haste.—Put some milk as it comes from the cow into a pan, and make it as hot as possible over the fire without boiling it. Let it cool, skim off the cream, put this into an earthenware bowl, and beat it well until the Butter is formed, which will be done in a short time. Take out the Butter, work it in a basin with a small quantity of cold water, add a little less than 1 table-spoonful of salt to each pound, and beat it well in. Form the Butter into a roll, cover it over with muslin, put it in a cool place, and it is ready for use. A little finely-sifted sugar worked in with the salt is a great improvement. Ornamental Butter for Table.—Butter can be made up into many pretty forms, such as small pats in the shape of a pine, the roughness being made with a silver fork; or it may be put on a crimping-board, and rolled on a cut pattern with either name or crest; or scooped out with the bowl of a spoon (by dipping the spoon in salted water each time, it will form a shell). When served, it should be garnished with parsley. Removing1 Salt from Butter.—Put 31b. or 41b. of salted Butter into a bowl, pour over sufficient cold water to cover it, and beat it with a spoon until the water is slightly dis- coloured. Pour off the water, and add more until it remains quite clear after the Butter has been worked in it. Restoring Rancid Butter.—Melt it at a very low tem- perature, and stir into every pound 1 tablespoonful of finely- powdered animal charcoal. Keep the Butter warm until the charcoal settles to the bottom. Irrespective of the various sauces and other preparations in which Butter takes a prominent part, the provident chef engaged in an extensive kitchen stocks himself with a variety of Butters, elaborated and compounded from the following receipts. Each has its particular value, whether prepared for storing or for immediate use, and may therefore be regarded as a stock Butter. For other special Butters, see Anchovy, Crayfish, Garlic, Horseradish, Lobster, Orange, Peach, Pumpkin, Rum, Shrimp, &c. Black or Brown Butter.—(1) Put Jib. of Butter in a stew- pan, and keep it on the fire until it browns, then let it cool. Take another pan and put 1 teacupful of vinegar in it, with a little pepper, and boil until the quantity is. re- duced one-third. When the Butter is cold, put in the pepper and vinegar, and warm it over the fire, stirring well, but do not let the mixture boil. When thoroughly incorporated, pour off into pots for future use, or use at once. The flavour of the Butter is entirely destroyed by the heat, so that inferior Butter does very well for this. (2) Pour into a stewpan 2 wineglassfuls of white vinegar, to which add a bay-leaf, and then let this reduce over the fire to half the original quantity. Remove the bay-leaf, and let the vinegar stand. Put Jib. of Butter in a stewpan or skillet, warm it until it begins to brown, but do not let it burn; Butter—continued. take it off the fire, mix in a pinch each of salt and pepper, and a little chopped parsley ; gently pour the liquid into the stew- pan containing the vinegar, stirring freely, let it boil up, and then serve in a hot sauceboat. (3) German Method.—Put the quantity of Butter re- quired to be browned into a saucepan over a slow fire, and stir until it is coloured, but be careful that it is not burned. Must be used at once. Camp Butter.—Blanch for two minutes in boiling water a bunch of chervil, a small bunch of tarragon-leaves, and about six blades of chives ; drain them, squeeze out all the water, and chop them. Work ljlb. of fresh Butter with the herbs till thoroughly mixed, then keep it packed in a tin box. The above mixture makes a capital sauce for fish, or either tinned or fresh vegetables. When ready to use it, a frying-pan should be made hot, then removed from the fire, and a piece of the Butter, about the size of an egg, put in; stir this about in the hot pan till it melts, then squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Either pour the sauce over the article for which it is intended, or serve it in a sauceboat. When camping out in hot countries, the Butter can be kept by digging a hole in the ground, putting in a small lump of ice (if this can be obtained), standing the tin containing the Butter on it, covering it with a marble or stone slab, over which fresh grass should be kept, constantly changing this as it dries by the heat of the sun. In this manner the Butter can be kept firm for some considerable time. Clarified Butter.—This is a very important preparation of Butter, and must be thoroughly understood. Put the Butter in a saucepan to melt, and as it heats remove any scum that rises. Let it stand near the fire to settle, and then strain it through a fine silk sieve, leaving any sediment at the bottom of the pan. When hot, it may be used instead of oil, both for salads and other purposes. The milky particles left at the bottom of the pan are curds, which decompose readily, so that Butter when clarified will keep for an indefinite period. Creamed Butter.—In this condition Butter is best adapted for making cakes and some kinds of pastry. Put the pre- scribed quantity in a warm basin, and hold it near the fire, beating quickly as it melts with the hand or a wooden spoon. The hand is better because of its warmth. Drawn Butter.—Dissolve Jib. of Butter over a slow fire, sprinkle in 1 table-spoonful of flour, then add J pint of boiling water and 1 pinch of salt; stir well, and boil up for a few minutes; then put in 1 teaspoonful of cold water. If intended to be eaten with pudding as sauce, put in a glass of white wine and half a grated nutmeg, stirring all the time. Fairy Butter.—Take the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and either grate them or pound them in a mortar until they are quite smooth; mix into these 1 teacupful of Butter slightly softened before the fire, 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and flavour with 1 teaspoonful of orange-flower water. Put this mixture in a basin, place it in a very cool place, and when perfectly cold rub it through a fine sieve, when it should have the appearance of vermicelli. This fairy Butter is used piled on a dish with a snow cake cut in slices, and eaten together like bread-and-butter. Gascony Butter.—Put a dozen or so of heads of garlic in a saucepan of water, and boil them until tender; take them out, drain off all the liquor, put them into a mortar, pound them well, and mix them up with Jib. of Butter. Sprinkle over grated nutmeg, cayenne, and salt to taste, and it is ready for use. Green Butter.—Blanch loz. of parsley-leaves in boiling water for five minutes, drain, and chop up as fine as possible. Wash loz. of anchovies or sardines, bone them, and pound them in a mortar, adding the parsley and 2oz. of Butter. Rub the whole through a fine sieve, and serve as cold as possible on pieces of toast. Kneaded Butter.—This is used to thicken light sauces just before the time of serving, fut the Butter into a small basin, and work into it with a wooden spoon an equal bulk of flour; let it form a smooth paste, and be quite free from lumps or irregularities.