207 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special licads. Brussels Sprouts—continued. with an elongated stem (see Fig. 219), from which sprout out small green heads like miniature cabbages (see Fig. 220). The usual mode of cooking is boiling, but the French cook tosses them afterwards in butter and seasoning Fig. 220. Brussels Sr routs. such as pepper and nutmeg, over a hot fire. They con- stitute a very elegant garnish, and are much used for that purpose. Belgian Puree.—Blanch 1 pint of fresh Brussels Sprouts in salted water, drain them, and cook them for a few minutes in a saucepan with a small quantity of butter. Take them out, put them into a mortar, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste; pound well, mix them up with a little piece of butter and two or three yolks of eggs, and rub the mixture through a very fine sieve. Put 6oz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, and when it is melted mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and cook for a few minutes, taking care not to let the flour get discoloured. Pour over the required quantity of good broth, stir well until it boils, remove the pan to the side, skim frequently, and let it stand for twenty-five minutes or so until it is quite clear. Strain it into another saucepan, boil up once more, and add the puree; when the broth is thick, sweeten it slightly, add a small piece of butter, turn the whole into a tureen, and serve. Boiled Brussels Sprouts.—(1) About 21b. make a good dish. Wash well in salted water, and pick them over. Put on the fire a saucepan full of water, with some salt and a pinch of bicar- bonate of soda; when boiling, put in the sprouts, leave the lid off, and let them boil fast till quite tender—i.e., about twenty minutes. When done, drain and dry them in a cloth. Put into a large saute-pan 2oz. of butter, a little salt and pepper, and toss the sprouts in this till they are quite hot again; but do not lot them fry. Sometimes they are served on a quartered round of buttered toast. (2) Wash and boil as for No. 1. When half-done, strain off the water, put in 1 teaspoonful of fresh butter, toss them gently, but do not stir them. Make a sauce with f pint of beef gravy, and bring it to the boil; then mix 1 teaspoonful of flour or arrowroot in a little cold water, work it smooth, and add 1 teacupful of brown sauce. Stir in with the gravy, and boil up. Pour this into the pan with the sprouts. Keep them closely covered, and when dishing up squeeze a little lemon-juice over them. Brussels Sprouts a la MSitre d'Hotel.—Boil a sufficient quantity of sprouts; put them into a stewpan with a large piece of butter, and let them heat. Put jib. of fresh butter in a pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, the juice of two lemons, ^ teaspoonful of salt, and half that quantity of white pepper; mix well together with a spatula, and whilst boiling stir it quickly, and sauce over the sprouts on the dish, or sauce them in layers as you pile them up. Brussels Sprouts Tried in Butter.—Put the required quan- tity of sprouts into a bowl of slightly-salted water, wash them thoroughly, put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil them. Take them out when tender, drain Brussels Sprouts— continued. and squeeze out all the water, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry them. Put them into a vegetable-dish, dredge them over with salt and pepper, and serve. Brussels Sprouts for Garnish.—The pretty diminutive cabbage-like appearance of these vegetables render them ex- ceptionally suitable for garnishing many sorts of dishes. Boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour lib. of picked, washed, and drained Brussels Sprouts in 4qts. of water with ioz. of salt, and drain them on a clean cloth. Melt ioz. of butter in a frying-pan, and toss the sprouts for a couple of minutes, sprinkling them with a little salt and grated nutmeg. Brussels Sprouts Sautes.—(1) Wash and boil lib. of Brussels Sprouts, put them in a pan, toss them over a sharp fire with a piece of butter the size of a fowl’s egg, and 1 pinch of salt, for eight minutes. Sprinkle over it 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and serve when done. (2) Wash and boil for about twenty minutes in salted water a sufficient quantity ; when done, drain them, and put them into a stewpan with |lb. of butter, a little salt and pepper, 1 table-spoonful of brown sugar, and the juice of a lemon to every vegetable-dishful. Pile them upon the dish, and serve hot. Brussels Sprouts Sautes au Beurre.—Pare neatly, and pick off the outer dead leaves of lib. of Brussels Sprouts; wash them thoroughly, drain, and cook them in boiling salted water for seven minutes. Drain, and cool in cold water ; drain them once more, and then throw them into a saute-pan containing 2oz. of butter. Season with J pinch each of salt and pepper, adding 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, cook slightly for five minutes, and serve. Brussels Sprouts Sautes a la Creme.—Pare, pick, and blanch lib. of sprouts. When well drained, put them into a saute-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce ; season Fig. 221. Brussels Sprouts Sautes 1 la Creme. with £ pinch of salt and 1 pinch each of pepper and nutmeg, and add | breakfast-cupful of sweet cream. Let them heat, but not boil, for five minutes, tossing them frequently. Dress on a hot dish, and serve (see Fig. 221). Brussels Sprouts en Turban with Cucumbers.—Get three fresh cucumbers, cut them in pieces about 2in. long, peel each separately, then cut off the outside flesh and divide into three or four slices according to size, leaving the seeds in one piece in the middle, and trimming off all the edges neatly. Put into a saucepan 4 table-spoonful of sugar, loz. of butter, a little chopped shallots, and the cucumber ; toss them over a moderate fire for ten minutes without breaking, and keep them quite white. Make a turban rrpon a border of mashed potatoes, and dress in pyramids with boiled Brussels Sprouts. Pour over the cucumber a good thin Dutch sauce, and over the sprouts bechamel sauce, not too thick, or else the Brussels Sprouts will not show through. Dressed Brussels Sprouts.—Thoroughly wash the sprouts, trim off the outside leaves, and boil them in plenty of salted water. When cooked, drain the sprouts, pressing them in a colander, to free them as much as possible from water. Put them into a saucepan with some white sauce, or if preferred some brown gravy, stir them for five or six minutes over the fire, then turn them on to a hot dish. Garnish the sprouts with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and servo them. Omelets with Brussels Sprouts.—Beat up six eggs, and mix with two dozen boiled Brussels Sprouts, each sprout dried and