5 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Agro Dolce Sauce—continued. ceipt for its manufacture is given by Mr. J. Fiorillo as follows: lib. of pignoli, or pine-cone kernels, from which a pungent bitter is obtained, 2oz. pistachio kernels, 3oz. of chocolate, 2oz. of sugar, j- pint of wine vinegar, l.joz. of candied orange- and lemon-peel combined, 2oz. of black currants, and ljoz. of red-currant jelly ; these ingredients are stewed for half-an-hour in a rich, clear, brown sauce, preferably that made from the flesh which forms the dish. Wild boar, venison, hare, and other savoury meats, are greatly improved by the addition of this sauce. AIGEN. —The Tartar tribes give this name to a sort of arrack, which they ferment from cows’-milk, as the Arabs prepare koumiss from the milk of mares. See Koumiss. AIGRETTE.—This is a French term, much used in ornamental confectionery, and signifies, literally, “ a bunch or group,” such as of grass, palms, or flowers, or a plume of grapes. AIGUILLETTES.—Fr. for, literally, “little needles.” By some cooks the term is applied to “ very thin strips ” into which fish or meat is cut; but others, and Soyer amongst them, adapt the term to indicate the mode of serving—that is, “ on small, silver skewers.” Aiguillettes of Fish.—This dish is given us by Dubois, and the term is applied as to the strips of flesh. Cut a slice of any fish to little more than lin. thick, remove the skin, and divide the slice into two, having removed the bone. Cut the slices up into very thin strips (forming the Aiguillettes), salt them, dip them in oil, roll them in flour, and plunge them into hot fat to fry them. As soon as the flesh is firm, take them out with a skimmer, drain, season them with salt, and dish up with a little fried parsley. Note that this process is merely one of frying strips of flesh, and may therefore be applied equally well to almost any kind of fish flesh which may be convenient. The hot fat must be hotter than boiling water (see Frying), and a thick batter may be used instead of oil and flour. Anchovy sauce goes well with these fish Aiguillettes. “For this kind of hors-d'oeuvres,” says Soyer, “it is necessary to have twelve small silver” [or electro- plated.—Ed.] “ skewers, about 4in. long, and the thickness of a packing-needle, with a ring or fancy design on the top (see Fig. 2); the persons eating what is served upon, them taking the head of the skewer with the thrnnb and fingers of the left hand, and picking it off with the fork ” (see Attelettes). Aiguillettes of Sweetbread.—Boil three throat sweetbreads in water for ten minutes. Pour off the water, and add one onion, one carrot, one turnip (all sliced), two bay leaves, and 1 pint of white stock or broth. Let all simmer for about twenty minutes or so—that is, until the sweetbreads are quite firm. Then take out the sweetbreads, and lay them on a clean cloth. Cut them into pieces about the size round of a shilling, with a long, round cutter, and season with pepper and salt. The next part of the process is to chop two shallots very fine, and fry them in a stewpan with loz. of butter until they are quite white. Then add 10 table-spoonfuls of white sauce and 8 table-spoonfuls of light stock. Let it reduce slowly until thickish, when the yolks of two eggs may be beaten in, and the juice of half a lemon. Do not let it boil after the yolks are added, but remove to one side of the stove. Dip the pieces of sweetbread into the sauce with a fork, and lay them on a dish until they are cold. Bun the skewers through the centres of the pieces—two on a skewer. Egg and bread- Aiguillettes—cont inued. crumb them freely, and fry in hot lard. Serve very hot, on a folded napkin or dish-paper. A variety of dainty foods can be served on these Aiguil- lettes, which would be inexpensive: Oysters threaded, egged, and breaded, or buttered, and fried; mussels ditto; bits of lobster or any other fish; or cold meats, such as chicken and ham alternately, served with a slice of lemon to each: either would complete a very novel and tasty supper-dish, well worthy of any cook’s consideration. AILLADE.—Fr. for a piece of bread that has been rubbed with garlic. AIR.—It is a remarkable fact that cooks and others pay very little attention to the value of a continuous supply of fresh Air to the apartments in which they are destined to spend so much of their time. A notion seems to prevail that a draught, as they term it, passing through the chamber, is calculated to delay the cooking by cooling the stove; whereas, the free access of Air increases the com- bustion of the fuel, and in that way increases the heat far beyond what the stream of Air can carry off. Roasting meats should at all times be protected by a screen (see Roasting). The kitchen of the Orleans Club, London, under the direction of Mons. L. Cunat, is divided into compartments by glass partitions descending from the ceiling to within about 6ft. or 7ft. of the floor. The heated Air rises into these compartments, and is carried off by ventilators opening at the top of each. The result is, that whilst the massive ovens, stoves, and roasting-fumace are in full work, the heat is scarcely perceptible a few yards away from them. Such a clever and strictly scientific arrangement adds to the comfort and health of those working therein. Air contains moisture, which the heat of the stove quickly dries up; this moisture is essential to the well-being of the lungs and Air-passages. Hence, inhaling heated or dried Air leads to numerous irritative or in- flammatory affections of the respiratory organs, such as bronchitis, pneumonia, and asthma, to all of which cooks and kitchen hands are notoriously subject. A wise cook will take care that a steady current of Air is gently, but continuously moving through the kitchen, and that this Air comes direct from the outside, and is therefore pure and unvitiated in transit. After coming into contact with the heated stoves, it passes up the flue, or through venti- lators in or close to the ceiling. Fig. 3. Ventilated Safe (Keen’s Principle). As a stream of Air passes along, it bears on its soft wings particles of dust, which are continually falling when the Air is still, but which are raised again like feather- down in a gust or rapid draught. These particles may be