THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 238 Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. square baking-sheet, spread the paste on it, and bake. When it is done, cut it into rounds with a lin. plain cutter. Boil some loaf sugar in water until it is brittle (see Sugar-boiling), colour half of this sugar with a little prepared cochineal, glaze half of the rounds of Cake with it, and the others with the plain syrup ; line an oiled plain mould with these Cakes, arranging the colours in patterns, and let them set. Put a folded napkin on a dish, turn the croquenbouche out of the mould on to this, put a plume of spun sugar on the top, and serve. (10) For Ices.—Some cooks, such as Dubois, are famous for their very rich adaptations of genoa Cakes, of which the following is a good example: Mix in a basin lib. of caster sugar, twelve eggs, a little salt, and the grated zest of half an orange. When frothy, mix with it lib. of sifted flour and lib. of butter warmed to melting, but not hot or oiled. Spread the paste on to floured and buttered baking-sheets to -|-in. in thickness, and bake it in a moderate oven. Make a six- sided shape of cardboard, and when the Cake is done, cut out, with the assistance of the cardboard plan, a dozen six-sided flats of Cake. Cut out their centres with large plain pastry- cutters, arrange them in threes, one above the other, and let them stand to get cold under a light weight. Then cover each flat with a layer of apricot marmalade, on which place another flat, joining the corners well; cover again with marma- lade, and thus continue till the twelve are used; trim it, and cover it all round and over the top with tepid reduced marma- lade. Ornament the six faces with a decoration of icing-sugar or fruits, and put the Cake on a dish. When ready to serve, fill the hollow of the Cake with orange or other cream ice. See Fig. 274. German Cake.—(1) Beat 21b. of butter to a cream, mix in two eggs and the yolks of three more, stir for two or three minutes, and continue in this way stirring for a few minutes until twelve whole eggs and twelve yolks of eggs have been worked in, producing a smooth cream. Sift in gradually 21b. of flour, and add l.|oz. of yeast dissolved in 1 breakfast- cupful of warm milk; stir in another -£lb. of flour, make a bay in the centre of the paste, and work in loz. of salt and 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Now add 1 breakfast- cupful of warm milk and 41b. of flour, form the whole into rather thin paste, adding a little more warm milk if required; pour the mixture into a mould garnished with pieces of almonds; let it rise, put it into a moderately hot oven, and bake. When done, turn it out, and it is ready for use. If desired, the mould may be well buttered and strewn with breadcrumbs. (2) Bub 4oz. of butter into 8oz. of flour, mix in 4oz. of sugar and about f teaspoonful of baking-powder, add an egg beaten up with 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and work the whole into a smooth paste. Divide the mixture into halves, roll them out round, put one of them into a greased round tin or plate, mask it with jam, and put the other half on top; place the Cake in a moderate oven, and bake until done, which will take about forty-five minutes. Take it out, cut it up into slices, and serve when cold. (3) Bub 4oz. of butter into fib. of flour until quite Cakes—continued. smooth, and mix with it gib. of sugar. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 table-spoonful of thick cream and J- wine- glassful of sherry, then stir it in with the flour and butter, stirring until quite smooth. Cover the basin with a cloth, and leave the paste in a warm place for half-an-hour. Blanch and finely chop gib. of sweet almonds and five or six bitter ones, and mix with them the juice and grated rind of half a lemon, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and 1 table- spoonful of orange-flower water. Dredge flour over the -table or paste-board, put the paste on it, and roll it out as thinly as possible. Get a baking-tin about 3in. in diameter, and cut the paste into as many rounds as possible, each being the same in diameter as the tin. Butter the tin, put in a round of the paste, mask it with a layer of the almond mixture, put over that another layer of paste, then the almond mixture, and so on until all is used, making the last layer of paste. Lay a sheet of buttered paper over the tin, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, remove the paper, turn the Cake on to a dish, and sift caster sugar over it. It may bo served either hot or cold. Gloucester Cakes.-—Beat five eggs very light, and mix in lqt. of milk and lqt. of flour; beat this until perfectly smooth, then add a little salt. Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg, and stir it into the batter. Pour into small greased moulds, and bake. Gold Cake.—(1) Put in a basin 2\ breakfast-cupfuls of flour, £ teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, f teaspoonful of cream of tartar, then add gib. of butter, 14 breakfast-cupfuls of fine granulated sugar, the yolks of four eggs, one whole egg, and 4 teaspoonful of powdered mace. Work all to- gether thoroughly, put in a greased round tin (see Fig. 275), and bake in a moderate oven till the Cake shrinks from the pan. (2) Mix thoroughly together 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar and 4 breakfast-cupful of butter (warmed), then add the yolks of three eg'gs, one whole egg, 4 breakfast-cupful of milk, g teaspoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and cream of tartar, and If breakfast-cupfuls of flour. Put in a buttered tin, bake for about half-an-hour, or a little longer, in a moderately hot oven. (3) Soften slightly by warming gib. of butter, and rub it into lib. of flour in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been mixed. Beat the yolks of eleven eggs with lib. of caster sugar; add the grated rind of an orange and the juice of two lemons. Mix all together, and beat for ten minutes. Bake for two hours in a lib. Cake-tin. Ice over with lemon icing. Griddle or Girdle Cakes.—(1) Bub into lib. of flour 3oz. of butter and a little salt; make it into a paste with sweet butter-milk ; roll it out, cut into Cakes with a large biscuit- cutter, and bake them on a griddle. (2) Get lqt. of sour milk, add to it 1 pint of sweet milk, a little salt, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and sufficient flour to make a batter. The thinner the batter the more tender the Cakes will be, if baked well. Shape out, and bake on a griddle. Butter, and. serve hot. For a sauce, mix together 1 teacupful of cream, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and | tea- spoonful of ground ginger. (3) Sift J teaspoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of bicar- bonate of soda into 1 pint of flour. Mix thoroughly, then add 1 pint of sour milk or cream, and beat well. Put in the yolks of two well-beaten eggs and the whites, beaten stiff. Bake on a hot griddle, well greased ; turn when full of bubbles, and bake the other side, till they stop puffing. (4) Put lqt. of new milk into a large basin with sufficient cornflour to make a thick batter. Beat up two eggs, add a little flour and salt, and mix in with the milk. Make a griddle hot, and rub some butter over it; then with a spoon take out the batter, drop it on, and bake at once, not turning. (5) Irish.—Add to 31b. of flour a little salt and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda mixed with 1£ pints of sweet butter- milk, or sufficient only to make it into a stiff dough Boll Fig. 275. Round Cake-tin (Mathews and Son).