121 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, tee under their special heads. Beef—continued. au<l let the meat cool in the liquor; take it out, drain it, trim it so as to expose tlie larding, trim also tlie fat, cut any design on it, and glaze tlie meat, but keep tlie fat white. Arrange a rice rock on the dish, put the Beef on it, cover over with Montpellier butter, and serve with the dish garnished with croutons of meat jelly. Pickled Brisket of Beef.—The whole brisket (Pig. 102, 13) should be pickled for a week ; it must not be too fat. As this is a long, awkward joint, it may be cut in two pieces and served upon different occasions. Wash off the pickle, wipe dry, and put into cold water with a few cloves to boil for about five hours. Serve with vegetables such as carrots, turnips, and parsnips arouild it. When upon table, it must be cut into thin slices, fat and lean in fair proportions. Cold brisket of Beef is an excellent dish for cold collations, luncheons, &c. Pilau of Beef as Prepared in Spain.—Take about 21b. of rump-steak cut with the grain (Fig. 140), and cut it up into pieces tin. square. Put these into a stewpan with -lib. of streaky bacon cut up into dice, a chopped onion, a bunch of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a piece of butter or fresh lard about as large as a fowl’s egg. Set the stewpan on a good fire to cook the meats ; salt lightly, and when the moisture is reduced, put in £ pint of good broth ; cover the stewpan, Fig. 140. Rumt-steak Cut with the Crain. and simmer down the broth to a glaze. By this time the meats should be done ; if so, add lib. of rice, picked, washed in three waters, and dried on a sieve; two seconds after, moisten the rice and meats, to double their height, with more broth. Boil up again for five or six minutes, and season with 1 pinch of saffron, a good sprinkle of Spanish pepper, a little cayenne, and 4 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce. Put the lid on the stewpan, remove it back to simmer for twenty minutes, and dish up. Polish Method of Cooking Fillet of Beef.-Cut off a fillet of Beef, rub it well with salt, and let it remain for four or five hours in a bowl. Put an equal quantity of wine, vinegar, and water into a saucepan with two or three slices of lemon, an onion in slices, a clove, a bay-leaf, and a little each of ground ginger and thyme. Boil this mixture, pour it hot over the meat, and let it stand for a day ; strain off the liquor, boil up, and pour it over again; in a day’s time repeat the operation. Take out the meat, drain it, make several holes over it with a larding-needle, and fill them up with small pieces of boned anchovy; put the meat into a saucepan on top of a few thin slices of bacon, cover it over with more of the slices, pour round the liquor in which the Beef was soaking, cover over the pan first with a piece of oiled or buttered paper, and then with the lid, put it on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the meat is done. Baste the meat frequently while cooking, with its own liquor and sour milk alternately. Skim off all the fat and scum, put the meat on a dish, and serve with the following sauce poured over or round it: Put a little sour milk and butter into a saucepan, warm them, mix in a thickening of flour, and a little pounded anchovy to taste, pour in some of the Beef liquor, and boil the whole up. Potted Beef.—It is astonishing what a lot of odds and ends can be worked up into nice potted meat. Any part that is free from fat, gristle, bone, and such-like can be pounded soft, and spiced in to make a tasty breakfast or luncheon Beef—continued. delicacy, especially serviceable for sandwiches. The following are good receipts : (1) Put 21b. of lean Beef into a jar with £ pint of water; cover, and place this in a deep stewpan full of boiling water, and simmer slowly for five hours. Take out the Beef, mince it very finely, and pound it in a mortar with 1 teaspoonful each of pepper, salt, and mace ; when smooth, add 6oz. of butter. Pill small pots with this, and pour clarified butter over the top, to keep the air out. Tie down with paper, and keep in a cool pantry for use. (2) Take lib. of lean cold roasted Beef, free from skin, sinews, and gristle ; mince fine, and pound in a mortar to a paste. When pounding, add by degrees 1 saltspoonful of *-salt, half that quantity of black pepper, 1 pinch of cayenne, a little finely-powdered mace, and 2oz. of warmed butter. Press into small jars, and cover with a coating of warm clarified butter; tie over with bladder or paper. (3) A very superior kind of potted meat is made as follows : Take 21b. of rump- or fillet-steak, remove all skin and sinew, cut the meat into very small pieces, and put it into a covered earthenware pot, which place in a large saucepan of water, or in a slow oven, and let it cook gently until the gravy has run out. Pour off the gravy, and keep it for other uses, such as Beef-tea, and pound the meat in a mortar until quite smooth. To each pound of meat put jib. of fresh butter, or fat cold boiled bacon pounded in the mortar, 2 table-spoonfuls of essence of anchovy, 1 small teaspoonful of pepper, and salt to taste. Put the meat back again into the covered jar, and let it warm gently for a little time longer; when hot through, stir occasionally until nearly cold, and then press it firmly into little pots, and the next day pour over each (to cover) some butter warmed to melting or melted mutton-suet. (4) Cut off all the skin and gristle from a piece of Beef so as to leave 2Jlb. of lean. Put it into an earthenware or stone jar with 1 table-spoonful of hot water, place it in the bain-marie or a saucepan of boiling water, and cook for about four hours, taking care not to let any addi- tional water get into it. Take out the meat when done, chop it very fine, and pound it in a mortar; sprinkle it over with salt and pepper to taste, and a slight seasoning of ground mace. Beat well until the mixture is quite smooth; mix in 5oz. of warmed butter and a small quantity of the liquor in which the meat was cooked, squeeze the mixture into jars, pour melted butter over the top, tie them over with bladder or thickish paper, and put them in a cool place until wanted. The meat in this way will keep for some time. Note.—The butter used for covering need not be wasted ; it will serve again for basting poultry or game. Potted Beef with Venison Flavour.—Cut into quarters 41b. of lean Beef, taken from the buttock; put it into a deep pan, rub it well over with a mixture of 4oz. of salt, 2oz. each of saltpetre and bay-salt, and {oz. of sal prunella, and let it remain for four days, rubbing and turning it frequently. Take it out, put it into another pan, cover it with water mixed with a small quantity of the brine pickle, put it into the oven, and cook for from two to two-and-a-half hours, by which time the meat should be quite tender. Take it out, drain it, remove the skin and sinews, and any objectionable parts, put it into a mortar, and pound it. Turn it out on to a dish, spreading it out, dust it over with powdered mace, pepper, and cloves, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and mix the whole together with a little warm butter. Put the mixture into jars, pressing it down tightly; put them at the door of the oven for a few minutes, pour over clarified butter to about Jin. in depth, cover the jars over with paper, and fasten down. Put them in a cool, dry place, and the meat will remain good for a long time. Pressed Beef.—(1) Select a nice-looking piece of the flank (Fig. 102, 7) of about 61b., and put it in the following pickle : Dissolve in lgall. of water 31b. of common salt, or lib. of bay-salt, lib. of coarse brown sugar, loz. of black pepper and the same quantity of mixed spice bruised and tied in muslin, and two bay-leaves, and boil together twenty minutes. Skim well, and when cold put in the meat, which must be covered by the brine. The thin flank will be ready in ten days; the thick flank, or other parts, according to size and