THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 62 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Baba—continued. five minutes; mix in the dough, work for five or six minutes longer, sprinkle in about 1 teacupful each of Smyrna raisins and well-washed and dried currants, and a little less than 1 teacupful of finely-chopped mixed candied peel. Take up the preparation with the hand, in small quantities, drop it into a well-buttered cylindrical-shaped mould, filling it to about three-quarters full, put it in a warm place to rise (or the heat of the kitchen will perhaps be sufficient), and when it has risen to the rim of the mould put it into a slack oven and bake it until done. Turn out very carefully on to a dish, smear over with chocolate or apricot sauce or orange cream, and serve. The proportion of ingredients used in the above should be sufficient to make two cakes. GoufK serves Baba cake with the following sauce : Put |lb. pot of apricot jam in a stewpan, with £ pint of syrup and 1 gill of rum. Boil, and strain through a hair sieve. Serve in a tureen, or poured over and round the cake. Mr. C. Norwak gives us the following receipt for making sauce for Baba cake, as made by him in Krakau, Poland: Take 1 pint of good wine, and mix with it the strained juice of a large lemon, and a small piece of cinnamon just to give a flavour; work this up with 4oz. of caster sugar, the yolks of four eggs thoroughly beaten up over the fire, and when ready, pour over the hot Baba. BABEURRE.-ft. for “butter-milk.” BABKA — This is the name of a Polish cake made with eggs, milk, sugar, cream-cheese, and chopped almonds. It stands very high and narrow, and is said to be called “ Babka ” on account of its resemblance to an old woman with her head depressed. More than a hundred varieties of it are known in Poland, made with fruit, vegetables, fish, and other things. BACALAO.—The Spanish mode of dressing salt codfish with oil and garlic, as follows : (1) Clean a cod-fish, put it in a bowl of slightly salted water, and soak it for a day ; take the fish out, cut it up in pieces or slices, lay a few of them at the bottom of an earthenware dish to cover it, then put over this a layer of garlic, parsley, and grated bread, continuing in this way until the dish is full. Pour over a mixture of oil and garlic well seasoned with salt and pepper, cover over the dish, and boil until nearly all the liquor has evaporated or is absorbed and the ingredients are nearly dry. When done, take it out, and serve. (2) Clean and cut in slices a cod-fish; boil the pieces in a saucepan of water, and when done, take them out and drain them. Put the pieces into a bowl with sufficient honey to nearly cover them, and when they are well soaked, take them out, dust them over with flour, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them. Take the pieces out, drain them, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish. Or instead of being soaked in the honey, the pieces may be dipped in egg beaten with a little salt, well floured, fried in boiling fat, and dusted over with caster sugar. (3) Cut some onions and tomatoes in rather thick slices, put a few of these at the bottom of an earthenware dish, and add a little garlic and ground cinnamon. Cover this over with slices of cod-fish, and continue in this way until the dish is full or all the cod-fish used up. Pour over a mixture of oil, whole and ground pepper, and cloves, filling up all the crevices, and boil over a clear fire until the liquor from the tomatoes and onions, together with the oil, is nearly absorbed. When done, take out the dish, and serve. (4) Lay onions, cut in thick circles, at the bottom of a pipkin, with tomatoes, a grain of garlic, and cinnamon; on this place a layer of cod-fish sliced, and so on in alternate layers. Pour in plenty of oil, cloves, pepper (whole and ground), and then set on the fire to boil, without adding any stock, till the juice of the tomatoes and onions is nearly absorbed. Bacalao A la Biscayexme.—After soaking and cutting in bits, put the fish on to boil; meanwhile toast a few tomatoes before the fire, skin them, and well mash them with a wooden spoon; chop up plenty of onions very small, put them to boil in oil, and just before they turn colour add the tomatoes. Now place the cod in a pipkin, throw in Bacalao—continued. the onions and tomatoes, with the oil in which they were cooked, and set on a slow fire to simmer gently till quite done. Bacalao with Garlic Sauce.—Prepare this by boiling the fish first, then adding a sauce at the time of serving, made by frying garlic in oil, and adding peppers, green and red, with vinegar in equal quantity with the oil. Bacalao a la Vizcaino.—Clean a cod-fish, cut it up in pieces or slices, soak these for a day or so in slightly salted water, and boil them until done. Have ready a few tomatoes, toasted before the fire and skinned, and mash them to a pulp. Cut up a good lot of onions into very small pieces, put these into a saucepan with sufficient oil to cover them, and boil them. When they begin to change colour, add the tomato pulp, and cook until all are done. Arrange the slices of cod at the bottom of an earthenware dish, pour over the oil mix- ture, and place the dish on the side of the fire; simmer gently until the whole is done, and serve hot. BACKINGS.—These are a very delicious kind of pancakes or fritters, highly esteemed in some parts of the United States as a breakfast delicacy. Beat 1 breakfast-cupful of buckwheat meal in a basin with sufficient warm milk to make it soft and smooth. Into this stir £ teacupful of fresh yeast, or loz. of American cake yeast dissolved in 1 wineglassful of lukewarm water. Set this to rise until a good sponge has formed, and then dilute the whole till it forms a liquid batter. Just before being wanted for serving, have ready a frying-pan with plenty of hot fat in it, pour in f teacupful at a time, cook both sides as for pan- cakes, and serve in the same manner. A better name for these, perhaps, would be “ Buckwheat Pancakes.” BACON (Fr. Bacon; Ger. Speck; Ital. Lardo; Sp. Tocino).—The term “ Bacon ” is derived from the German bachen, the plural of bache—a wild sow—which it is more than probable formed, when dried, a very important item in the dietary of the rural German inhabiting the vast forests of the country where the wild pig or boar abounded. Bacon is defined as “ the flesh of swine, salted and dried, and subsequently smoked or not,” and the name, so far as we know it, is restricted to the sides and belly so prepared. Other parts of the pig are cured in a similar manner, hut these have distinctive names, such as “ hams ” and “ Bath chaps,” and will be treated under those heads. In some of the northern countries of Europe and America the term “ Bacon ” is more generally used and applied to other kinds of dried and smoked flesh, especially that of the bear, which is said to be of a very superior flavour; but with that we have nothing to do here, our remarks being confined to the belly and side of the domestic pig—“ salted and dried, and subse- quently smoked or not.” From the foregoing introductory notes it is plain that there are two kinds of Bacon to be met with in this country, namely, that which has been salted and dried only, and that which has been salted, dried, and subse- quently smoked. We take the description of Bacon cured by the simplest process first. Bacon, Salted and Dried (or “ Green,” as it is called).— After the slain pig has been cleaned and deprived of its head, it is slit carefully down the back (as shown in Fig. 61) by means of a butcher’s chopper, or in a largo pig the chine (a) is cut out for roasting or boiling. The hams (c) and hands (d) are removed, or the shoulder in small pork may be left. The hair on the skin is then singed off over a fire, or by means of kindled straw laid over it. Scalding with water is not advisable, as the dampness produced interferes with the process of salting. A large wooden trough or tray is pro- vided, having a gutter round its edges to drain off the brine; the flitches, as they are called, are then sprinkled over with salt, and left for twenty-four hours on the trough, or on sloping boards, so that the flesh may drain. When the time prescribed for draining has elapsed, each flitch should be taken separately and wiped perfectly dry, and the drainings from them thrown away. Both sides of the flitches are then