170 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Bouchees—continued. and lay them on a pastry-grating for fifteen minutes to dry. Dress them on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Bouchees a la Patissiere.—Roll out -jib. of puff paste to about the thickness of a penny, cut it with an oval fluted cutter into fifteen pieces about 2 jin. in length and ljin. in breadth, and damp them with water. Take up and roll out the trimmings in the same way, from which cut fifteen pieces lin. in diameter, removing the centres with a smaller cutter, forming them into rings. Place them in the centre of the other shapes, damp them slightly, dip the tops into sifted sugar, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake them in a moderate oven until they are of a light colour. Take them out when done, fill the centre of the ring with currant, apple, or other jelly, put a cherry or other small preserve on top, and serve. Bouchees £, la Seine.—(1) Roll fib. of puff paste to fin. thick, let it rest for ten minutes in a cold place, then cut six rounds out of the paste with a 3in. diameter fluted paste-cutter (see Pig. 181). Lay these on a buttered tin baking-dish, slightly apart from each other, brush over with beaten egg, and make a mark on the surface of each with a paste-cutter 2in. in diameter, being careful to dip the cutter each time in hot water, so that the marked out- line may remain perfect. Put them in a brisk oven for twenty minutes, then lift the centres with a knife, remove the crumb, and fill with a white salpipon, made of truffles, mushrooms, Fig. 181. Scalloped Paste- finely-shred chicken, and tongue, cutter for Bouchees. cut up into small dice. Set the centres on again as covers, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin or ornamental dish paper. (2) Strip the meat from one or two boiled chickens, cut it in dice, with one-third the quantity of ham, and put it in a saucepan with a little grated nutmeg, pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and 1 pinch of salt. Pour over it j pint of bechamel sauce, and simmer gently at the back of the fire. Prepare some patty cases as for No. 1, and fill them with the mixture. In place of the sauce, 1 pint of milk thickened with 1 table- spoonful of flour added to the chicken may be used, but it must not be made too thick. Bouchees de Dames.—(1) Put into a pastry-bag a small quan- tity of paste as for Lady’s Ringer Biscuits. Butter and flour a baking-sheet, form about fifty small round biscuits the shape of macaroons, sprinkle slightly with powdered sugar, and place in a brisk oven to bake for twelve minutes. Remove, and set to cool for fifteen minutes; then lift from the pan, lay them upside down on a table, with a knife make a small cavity jin. in diameter in the centre of each, and fill with cream. Fasten them two by two, to enclose the cream; they will then be ball-shaped. Dip carefully one after the other into a thick sugar icing, and lay them on a pastry- grating to dry for fifteen minutes; then dress on a dessert- dish with a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, and send to the table. (2) Prepare a batter in the following way : Put the yolks of fourteen eggs into a basin, and the whites into a round bowl, and place in a cool place till wanted. Add lib. of sifted sugar and 1 pinch of salt to the yolks, flavour to taste, work all together for twenty minutes, when the batter will be creamy. Whisk the white into a froth, and mix very lightly with the batter, adding 1 teacupful of sifted flour and 1 teacupful of cornflour at the same time. Spread a sheet of paper on a baking-sheet, push the batter through a biscuit- forcer on to this paper in rounds measuring ljin. across, sift caster sugar over the top, and bake to a light brown; then place them on a sieve, put a circular piece of red-currant jelly, or any kind of preserve, on the tops, gloss them over with transparent icing, and leave them to dry for a few minutes before serving. Bouchees with Game Puree.—Make lib. of puff paste, roll it out at six turns to about jin. in thickness. Let it rest Bouchees—continued. for five minutes, then with a tin channelled paste-cutter 2in. in diameter cut the paste into rounds. Brush a baking- sheet over with a paste-brush dipped in cold water, arrange the flats of paste on it, leaving a short space between each, and brush them over with beaten egg. Cut three-parts through the centre of each flat of paste with a tin cutter lin. in diameter, mark three lines across the inner circle of the paste with a sharp-pointed knife, and bake the patties for twenty minutes in a hot oven. When cooked, take them out, remove them from the baking-sheet by slipping a thin- bladed knife underneath them, lift the lids, and scoop out the underdone paste. Have a puree of game warmed at the moment, fill each of the patties with some, then put the lids on again. Arrange them in a group on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish them with a few neat little sprigs of parsley, and serve. This dish is also known as “ Bouchees a la Saint Hubert.” Bouchees with Oranges.—Beat the yolks of fourteen eggs with lib. of caster sugar, 1 pinch of salt, and some orange- zest sugar, till of a thick creamy substance. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, then mix them with the beaten yolks, adding gradually at the same time 9oz. of potato- and wheat-flour, mixed in equal proportions. Spread a sheet of white paper over a baking-sheet, fill a biscuit-forcer with the batter, and squeeze it out on the paper in rounds measuring lfin. across; sift some caster sugar over them, and bake till lightly browned. Quarter some oranges, and stew them for a short time in a small quantity of syrup. When cooked, put the Bouchees on a wire drainer, drain the quarters of oranges, put a slice on each Bouchee, glaze them over with transparent icing, and set them in the screen to dry. In ten minutes the Bouchees will be ready for serving. This dish is also known as “ Bouchees h la Seville.” Bouchees with Peaches.—Proceed as for Bouchees with Oranges. Stamp the biscuits with a tin cutter to remove any uneven parts round the edges; then stand them on a wire drainer, put half of a preserved peach on each, and allow any excess of moisture from the syrup to become entirely absorbed in the biscuit ; then glaze them over with a transparent icing flavoured with noyeau and tinged with carmine, and dry them for a few minutes in the screen. Arrange the cakes in a fancy dish, and serve them for dessert. They make a very pretty addition to the table, and are delicious to eat. Also known as “Bouchees Montreuil.” Petites Bouchees.—(1) Make some puff paste, roll it out to jin. thick, cut out about eighteen or twenty Bouchees with a fluted paste-cutter 2in. in diameter, place them on a greased baking-sheet, and let them stand for ten minutes on ice ; remove them, brush them over with egg, and cut through Fig. 182. Savoury Bouchees with Pear-shaped Croquettes. one-third of the thickness of the paste with a cutter about ljin. in diameter; this will form the cover, as it can be removed when baked. Bake in a brisk oven. Removo the covers from the centres when done, take out some of the inside of the patties from under the lid, and smooth it with a handle of a knife. Mince some cold chicken, truffles, tongue, and mushrooms, add