222 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cabbages—continued. Cabbage Soup with Rice.—Take two small heads of Cabbage, wash, remove the outer leaves, cut in quarters, and mince the tender leaves. Put -Jib. of bacon cut into small dice in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry until it becomes a light yellow colour; add an onion finely chopped and let it remain for ten minutes, then 4qts. or 5qts. of good broth. Let the whole boil for five minutes, then mix in a few handfuls of rice that has not been either washed or blanched, and cover over the pan. When the rice is thoroughly done, season with a little pepper, and serve hot. A plate of grated Parmesan cheese served with it, but separately, is a good addition. Cabbage Sour-crout.—Wash and trim off the outside leaves of the required quantity of Cabbages and cut out the stalks; put them in a heap to sweat for a couple of days or so. Have some thoroughly drained casks, choosing those that have been used for white wine in preference to any other; pack the crout in, allowing the large leaves to cover the sides of the cask, and sprinkling them well with salt; add a few juniper berries or caraway-seeds to aromatize it. When the casks are filled, cover the whole with a layer of salt: cover with some outside Cabbage leaves, then with a wet cloth, put in tlio head of the cask, and then a heavy weight on the top of that, to prevent the Cabbage from rising during fermentation—din. or 5in. ought to remain empty below the head of the cask. A wooden spigot should be introduced, by which the Cabbage-water can run off, it being extremely fetid and thick. This water must be re- placed with salted water or pickle every three or four days till it runs off clear and has no disagreeable odour. The cask should be kept in a cool place and filled up every month with pickle, and the cloth should be changed every two months. Prepared in tho above manner the sour-crout can be kept throughout the winter, provided it is always in a cool place. Cabbage Stewed witli Milk.—Trim off the outer leaves of the Cabbage, wash it thoroughly in plenty of water, then cut it into four pieces. Put the Cabbage into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt and a small piece of char- coal, and boil it slowly until tender. When cooked, turn the Cabbage into a colander, and drain it as much as possible. Put a lump of butter, about 2oz., into a saucepan, melt it, put in the Cabbage, dredge a small quantity of flour over it, pour in J- pint of milk, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Put the pan over a slow fire, and stir gently with a wooden spoon until the milk has somewhat reduced. When ready, turn the Cabbage on to a hot dish, and serve. Dolmas of Cabbage in Grecian Style.—Strip off the leaves of a white Cabbage, wash them thoroughly, put them into a saucepan of salted water, and boil for twenty- f five minutes. Take them out, plunge into cold water, and j Fig. 246. Dolmas of Cabbage in Grecian Style. afterwards dry them. In the meantime, prepare ljlb. of forcemeat, using an equal quantity of finely-chopped fat bacon and lean mutton, two eggs, a small quantity of chopped onion, a handful of sifted breadcrumbs, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of minced mushrooms, and a little minced parsley. Divide this into pieces about the size of a walnut, wrap them up separately in pieces of the leaves, put them close together in a Cabbages—continued. saute-pan, sprinkle well with salt, pour over a little melted butter, and add broth to half their height. Cover them over, and cook until tho liquid is reduced to a glaze; then re- move the pan to tho side. Have ready a risot made with lOoz. of rice, and finished with butter and grated Parmesan cheese. Cover the bottom and sides of a timbale-mould with tender large leaves of tho Cabbage, without any of their hard parts, spread a layer of the risot lin. thick over the bottom leaves, mask this with tomato sauce, arrange ten slightly-flattened dolmas on top, grate over a little Parmesan cheese, and continue in this way until all are used up, by which time the mould should be full. Cover over with a Cabbage-leaf, then with thin slices of fat bacon, put the mould in a moderate oven, and cook for an hour. Drain off the fat, remove the bacon and Cabbage-leaf, turn the timbale out on to a hot dish, glaze tho leaves with a paste-brush, and serve at once. Or these dolmas may be cooked in a stewpan, and garnished with bacon round the dish on which they aro piled (see Fig. 246). Dolmas of Cabbage in Turkish Style.—Pull off the white leaves of a large Cabbage, plunge them into boiling water for a few minutes, tako them out, dip into cold water, drain, put them on a cloth, and with a sharp knife remove all the tough parts. Remove tho sinews from lib. of fillet of mutton, miueo it, put it into a basin, add about 1 breakfast-cupful of slightly-blanched rice, one small chopped onion, a little chopped parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. Divide this preparation into small pieces about the size of filberts, wrap each one separately in a piece of Cabbage-leaf, pack them in five or six rows in a high saucepan, putting one row over tho other, and seasoning well as each set of rows are complete ; pour in sufficient broth to nearly cover them, put a plate or cover over, so as to press them well, boil until the liquor is reduced to about one-quarter its original quantity, and removo tho pan to the side of the fire for twenty minutes longer. Tako out tho dolmas one at a time, and place them in a pilo on a hot dish; strain the liquor into another saucepan, boil it up again, add a thickening of tho yolks of five or six eggs mixed up with the juice of two or three lomons, pour it over the dolmas, and serve at once. See Fig. 247. Fried White Cabbage.—Chop cold boiled Cabbage, press out all tho moisture, add 1 toacupful of cream to a quart bowlful of Cabbage, and season with salt and pepper. Put 2 table- spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan over the fire, and let it got smoking hot; then put in tho Cabbage, and brown it quickly on tho under-side. Turn it at once upside down on a hot dish, and serve. Gratinated Cabbages with Soup.—Make a beef broth, and when tho meat is nearly done cut two small Cabbages in quarters, clean them, and put into boiling water, with a little salt added ; leave them to blanch for fifteen minutes, drain, dip them into cold water for a minute, and then squeeze dry. Take a flat stewpan and mask the bottom with fat bacon trimmings, a slice of raw ham, and a few sliced carrots and onions; place tho quarters of tho Cabbages on these, sprinkle over a little salt, and add sufficient broth to cover the lot. Stew until the vegetables are dono, then tako them out and put them on a sieve to drain. Do not squeeze them, but carefully remove tho Cabbage-stalks and cut each of tho quarters of Cabbago into two or three pieces, which place in a basin gradually, and mix in with a spoon a little