120 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—co ntinued. one shallot chopped very fine, the shredded rind of half an orange, and a little grated nutmeg; season with salt and cayenne pepper, and let it simmer for four or five minutes ; then add f pint of good brown sauce. Mix the Beef with the preparation, add a few drops of lemon-juice, and bring the whole to a boil again. Put it in the centre of the dish, shake a few raspings of bread over it, put some three-cornered pieces of bread (which have been previously fried in butter) round the dish, and a poached egg on each, with scallops of tongue in between. (2) Mix about 21b of minced cold roasted Beef with 5oz. of sifted breadcrumbs or grated bread ; sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a small onion if desired; put the mixture into a saucepan, and pour over 1 teacupful of rich gravy mixed with 1 table-spoonful of vinegar or lemon-juice, to give it a sharp acid taste Put the saucepan on the fire for a few minutes, and warm the mixture ; turn it out on to a dish in a sloping direction from the centre, smooth the surface, put a few small lumps of butter on it, cover it over with breadcrumbs, put more lumps of butter on this, and put it in the oven or Dutch oven It will require about twenty minutes to brown. Take it out, and serve. (3) Prepare lflb. of any part of cold boiled Beef by removing the gristle, fat, or skin, and chop fine, or pass through a mincing-machine. Stir 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour and loz. of butter in a stewpan, and cook for three minutes. Take off the fire, add 1 pint of broth, 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, and 1 pinch of pepper, and mix for two minutes ; put on the fire, stir for ten minutes, then add the Beef, together with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and stir again for two or three minutes. Should the mince be thick, add a little more broth to soften it. This mince may he made ■with Italian or tomato sauce, to which, when warmed, the Beef should be added as above, stirred on the fire for five minutes, and served Minced Beef a I’Espagnole.—Cut some cold meat into thin slices, then into strips, and lastly into dice ; put these into a saute-pan to brown in oil, and add two very finely- chopped shallots, one onion, and a green pepper cut into pieces. When well browned, after five minutes, put in 1 pint of Spanish sauce, J pinch of salt, and the same of pepper. Cook again for fifteen minutes, and serve with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley strewn over. Minced Beef with Poached Egg’s.—Take about lib. of roast Beef, carefully remove the fat and skin, cut it into very thin slices, and then chop it very fine ; put the Beef into a stewpan with k pint of good brown sauce, season with a little grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, and a dust of cayenne pepper, and stir the whole upon the stove for about five minutes. Put some square pieces of toast round the edges of the dish you are about to serve it upon, pour the minced Beef into the centre, place a poached egg upon each piece of toast, and serve very hot Minced Beef a la Portugaise.—The same as for Minced Beep with Poached Eggs, but leaving out the eggs, and garnishing with six timbales, which are prepared as follows: Thoroughly clean the interiors of six small timbale-moulds, then butter them well inside; fill them up half their height with hot boiled rice, well pressed down, so that when turned out of the moulds they will hold perfectly firm; place them in the hot oven for two minutes ; turn them out, and arrange at equal distances round the dish. Dress six small, hot, roasted tomatoes, one on top of each column of rice, and then serve. Minced Beef a la Proven^ale.—Cut into slices a piece of cooked Beef weighing ljlb., and put them into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of fat and two or three chopped onions ; brown all together for a few minutes, then dredge over about 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and cover with broth; stir well, and put in two sliced tomatoes, two crushed cloves of garlic, and five or six finely-shredded mushrooms; season with salt and pepper, and place the lid on the pan. Let this cook for twenty minutes, then spread it on a hot dish, arrange six heart-shaped croutons round the dish, and serve. Minced Beef-steaks.—Take the thick and thin end of a fillet of Beef (about lib.), trim away the sinewy skin, cut up the meat in pieces, and chop it very fine ; add to this a fourth- part of its volume of clean Beef kidney-suet, which must also be Beef—continued. chopped fine, and season with salt and pepper. Divide into portions each the size of a fowl’s egg, and form these into round balls, which flatten with a cutlet-bat to the thickness of a common Beef-steak. A quarter-of-an-hour previous to their being wanted, melt in a frying-pan a large piece of butter, put in the Beef-steaks, fry them gently on both sides (for they are soon done), and dish them up. Sprinkle over each of them a minced onion fried in butter, pour over some melted glaze, and arrange them tastefully round a dish of mashed potatoes. Miroton of Beef.—(1) The preparation of this tasty dish is usually confined to cooks of high standing, for considerable practical experience is required to produce it satisfactorily. Cut up l|lb. of cold boiled Beef into slices about |in. thick, removing the outside which may be dry, and all the fat; set the slices in the smallest of the oval copper gratin-pans, and sprinkle with 1 pinch of salt and 2 small pinches of pepper. Cut up lib. of onions into halves, and then crosswise into thin shreds; scald in boiling water for five minutes, fry in a little batter, and when they are of a light brown colour, sprinkle them with 1 table-spoonful of flour, 1 pinch of salt, and 2 small pinches of pepper, and let them cook five minutes longer. Take off the fire, and add 1 pint of broth; then stir well over the fire for twenty minutes. Add 1 tea- spoonful of mixed mustard and £ teaspoonful of burnt sugar. Pour the onions on the slices of Beef, bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes, and serve in the pan used for cooking. (2) Cut up in thick round slices a piece of boiled or braised rump of Beef (Pig. 102, 2). Slice three or four onions and a few shallots, put them into a flat stewpan, fry them with butter Fig. 139. Miroton of Beef. to a nice colour, add a bay-leaf, and then sprinkle over 1 pinch of flour ; a few seconds after, moisten gradually with gravy and a little vinegar, or white wine, thus getting the sauce a little thickisli, and colour it with a few drops of burnt sugar if it appears too pale; then add to it some chopped or sliced mushrooms, and 1 pinch of pepper. Let the sauce boil for a while, and then add to it the slices of Beef, seeing that the sauce exactly covers the meat; put the lid on the stew- pan, and let the Beef simmer for half-an-hour over a very slow fire, putting a few hot ashes on the lid. Skim the fat away, sprinkle over 1 pinch of chopped parsley, then dish up the slices of Beef arranged in a circle (Fig. 139). Take out the bay-leaf, and pour the sauce and onions over the meat. (3) Half fry in butter a couple of sliced medium-sized onions. When they are nicely browned, add a dust of flour, some sliced mushrooms, 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, and 1 wineglassful of red wine. Let these simmer over a gentle fire until the onions are cooked to a pulp, then set it on the side of the stove. Presently put in the slices of Beef, nicely trimmed and cut very thin, to warm up and absorb the sauce. They must not boil. When it is time to serve, arrange the slices of Beef round the dish with a spoon and fork, and pour the sauce in the middle. Some cooks heighten the seasoning of this sauce with a dash of mustard. .Toix of Beef with Meat Jelly.—Take a noix of Beef, trim it, leaving the fat on the top, lard the fleshy part with fat bacon and raw ham alternately, cover over the lean part with slices of fat bacon, and tie them on securely; put the noix into a braising-pan with sufficient mirepoix to cover, and cook gently for about six hours. Remove the pan from the fire,