TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 119 tor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. minutes. Put it on a dish, and serve with poached eggs laid on the top, sprinkling over with chopped fried parsley. (2) Make a hash as for No. 1, put it into a lightly- buttered baking-dish, and sprinkle with rasped breadcrumbs. Moisten with 1 teaspoonful of clarified butter, and bake in the oven for fifteen minutes, or until brown. It will then be ready to be served. (3) Form a border round a baking-dish with mashed potatoes, set it to warm for two minutes in the oven, fill the centre with hot hashed corned Beef, sprinkle over the top with fried parsley, and serve. (4) This is prepared the same as No. 1, adding to the hash two good-sized sliced tomatoes, one bruised clove of garlic, and some chopped parsley. Cook for fifteen minutes, and serve very hot. Hung Beef.—(1) This is essentially an American dish, and is prepared by salting and drying, either without or with smoke. Hang up the Beef (any thick lean piece will do) three or four days till it becomes tender, but take care it does not turn green or spoil; then salt it in the usual way, either by dry-salting or by brine with bay-salt, brown sugar, and salt- petre, with a little pepper and allspice; afterwards roll it tight in a cloth, and hang it up to dry in a warm, but not in a hot, place for a fortnight or more, till it is sufficiently hard. If desired, it may be smoked, and then it will keep a long time. Cut into thin slices ; grated and spread on hot buttered toast; and shredded in omelets, are the usual modes of serving this tasty meat. (2) The meat should be soaked for a few hours, then boiled slowly until tender with carrots and cabbage. It is best eaten cold, but slices of it can be broiled on a gridiron and served with green vegetables. (3) Put a piece of Beef weighing about 121b. into an earthenware bowl, rub it well with a mixture of lib. each of coarse moist sugar and salt, and half that quantity of salt- petre. Let it remain in this for ten or twelve days, turning it and rubbing it daily with the pickle; then take it out and smoke it. The Beef should be well rubbed with a portion of the saltpetre first before the other ingredients, so as to give it the fine red colour required. A clove of garlic may also be added to the pickle, and this very much improves the flavour of the meat. (4) Dutch Style.—Take a lean piece of Beef, rub it well with treacle or coarse sugar, and let it remain for three days, turning it frequently. After that, wipe it dry, and salt it well with common salt and saltpetre well dried and beaten fine; turn it every day for a fortnight. Boll it quite tight in a coarse cloth, and put it into a cheese-press, or under a heavy weight, for a day ; hang it then to dry in the smoke of wood or turf, but turn it upside-down every day. Fig. 137. Loin Suitable for Hungarian Beef. Hungarian Beef.—At the very best this is but a coarse dish, but is regarded by some foreign palates as a very desirable Beef—continued. food. Much depends upon the curing. Take about 101b. of fine fat sirloin of Beef (Fig. 137) that has been killed four or five days, and rub thoroughly with |lb. of coarse sugar or treacle until none can be seen. After lying to drain two days, take 2oz. of juniper-berries, {07„ of bay-salt, 2oz. of saltpetre, loz. of sal prunella, and lib. of common salt; beat them all together into a powder, and mix in some bay-leaves and thyme chopped small; rub the Beef with this brine for an hour every day for three weeks, leaving it to lie in an earthen pan with the brine about it. At the expiration of the prescribed time, take it out, wipe it well, and plunge into cold water, letting it soak for twelve hours. Wipe it perfectly dry again, and paint with bullock’s blood to colour it. Hang it up to smoke lightly for the first three days, and then smoke thoroughly until nearly black. It is used like ham or bacon, and sometimes eaten raw. Irish Stew of Corned Beef.—See Irish Stew. Macaronied Beef.—Take the lower end of a loin of Beef (Fig. 138) weighing about 61b.. make some large holes in it with a Fig. 138. Lower End of Loin of Beef. larding-needle or skewer, and squeeze |lb. of macaroni into them. Sprinkle over a little salt and pepper to season. Put 1 teacupful of butter into a 6qt. stewpan with four large onions peeled and chopped fine; place the pan over the fire, and stir until the onions are a light brown; put in the meat, and push the onions to one side of the pan; sift 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into it, and cover the meat over with the onions; add two cloves and lqt. of boiling water, cover over the pan, and let it simmer on the side of the fire for three hours; add lqt. of peeled and sliced tomatoes, and simmer for an hour longer. Take out the meat, put it on a dish, pour the gravy through a strainer over it, and serve with boiled macaroni. Macedoine of Beef.—Cut some rump-steak into slices a little more than tin. thick, shape them like cutlets, 3in. by 2in. flat, trim them all to the same size, and lard them thickly on one side with fine lardoons of bacon-fat. Lay them out, the larded side uppermost, in a flat pan, and put into it as much richly-flavoured stock as will come up to the top of the meat slices. Put the lid on the pan, and set it in an oven to braise for an hour. Bemove the lid, baste the slices with the gravy, and let them remain uncovered in the oven till the larding has taken colour ; they are then ready to dish up. Take equal quantities of sliced carrots and turnips, cutting the slices into fancy shapes; take also equal quantities of green peas, French beans, asparagus-points, and small sprigs of cauliflowers. Boil all these vegetables in salted water until tender. Then melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, add 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir in sufficient milk to make a sauce, and add pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Put all the vegetables into this sauce, of which there should be just enough to make them adhere together, and toss them gently in it to make them quite hot. Pile them in the middle of a dish, and dispose the slices round them in a circle. Skim off the fat from the gravy, pour it round the dish— not over the slices—and serve. Minced Beef.—(1) Take some slices of cold roasted Beef about iin. thick, cut these into strips about the same width, and slice up finely, this being done with a very sharp knife. Next put into a stewpan 1 wineglassful of port wine,