87 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, doc., referred to, see under their special heads. Batter—continu ed. adding gradually, 2oz. of hot butter. When these are incor- porated, beat in lightly the -whites of two eggs, whipped to a froth, and the Batter is ready for use. Batter for Frying.—(1) Stir with a fork 1 pint of water, or milk, gradually into a well, formed in 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, allowing the water to take up the flour by degrees, and keeping fluid all the time by adding more liquid as fast as the stirring thickens. Add 1 table-spoonful of olive oil, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and \ wineglassful of brandy, beating together thoroughly until quite smooth. When about to use for frying, beat an egg to a froth, and mix with the above. Dip the things to be fried into the Batter so that their surfaces are equally and thoroughly covered with it; and to insure this, dry first by dabbing with a cloth. (2) Provence.—Mix in a basin lib. of flour, the yolks of two eggs, 4 table-spoonfuls of fine oil, and sufficient cold water to form the flour into a thin paste, working it with a wooden spoon until quite smooth, and add 1 pinch of salt and the well-whipped whites of two eggs. It is essential that the fat for frying should be quite hot for this Batter; for should it not be sufficiently so, the paste will soften, and the dish look poor, instead of crisp and firm. (3) Dutch.—This is prepared precisely the same as No. 2, except that 1 pint of good strong beer is used for moistening instead of water. Por frying sweet things, such as apple fritters, substitute 1 table spoonful of sugar for the salt; or use the following: Batter for Frying1 Sweet Things.—Take \ breakfast-cupful of milk, one egg, 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed broth, 1 table- spoonful of golden syrup, 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, and \ teaspoonful of baking-powder. Mix the baking-powder and flour together, and put them with the other ingredients into a pan, the flour last. Add 1 pinch of salt, and work well with a spoon until the Batter is quite smooth. It should be thin enough to coat whatever is dipped in it, clinging in lumps like paste. Batter for Frying Vegetables.—Mix the required quantity of flour with water to the consistency of cream, then add a small quantity of salt, 1 table-spoonful of olive oil, and H table-spoonfuls of brandy. Beat thoroughly, and a few minutes before using it add the white of an egg beaten to a froth. Batter Pudding (Small).—Put the yolks of eight and the whites of five eggs into a basin, and beat them up well with {lb- of moist sugar. Beat 4oz. of butter that has been melted, in { pint of cream and 4oz. of flour. Butter some breakfast-cups, sprinkle a few well-washed currants at the bottom of them, pour the Batter in, and bake for twenty minutes. These are sometimes called “blackcaps.” Batter Bolls.—Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, mix with them the yolks, well beaten, and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour previously mixed with 1| pints of milk, and make with this a Batter. Put a piece of butter in an omelet-pan, and when it is hot, turn in the Batter, and fry both sides. Mask it with jam, roll it, dust caster sugar over, and serve hot. Boiled Batter Pudding.—Stir fast-cupful of flour with £ tea- spoonful of salt; beat up two eggs, and mix with 1 pint of new milk; make a well in the flour in a large basin, and add the egg and milk gradually, stirring briskly until there are no lumps. Let the Batter stand a short time to set. Butter a pudding-basin, and pour the Batter into it; tie this over tightly and securely with a floured cloth, and put it into a saucepan of boiling water to boil. Move the saucepan backwards and for- wards sharply every now and then after the pudding is first put in—this will prevent the flour settling at the bottom rather more than one hour, tl up in a basin 1 piled break- Fig. 94. Boiled Batter Pudding (Mode of Tying Cloth over Mould). of the basin. Let it boil for en turn it out, and serve very i Batter—continued. hot, with either wine or sweet sauce; or mask it with orange, apple and quince, or apricot marmalade. Clabber Batter Cakes.—Sift the required quantity of flour into a basin, and pour in sufficient clabber, or milk curdled by souring, to make it of the proper consistence. Mix in a small quantity each of bicarbonate of soda and salt, form the Batter into cakes, cook them on the griddle over the fire, and they are ready for use. Gratinated Batter.—Pour lqt. of warm milk into a basin, mix in 5oz. of flour, strain through a fine sieve into a sauce- pan, and stir over a good fire until it thickens; as soon as it commences to boil, remove it to the side, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little yeast, and a small pinch of salt. Let the Batter cook in this way for a quarter-of-an- hour, by which time it should be quite thick and consistent. Turn about a fourth of this Batter into another saucepan, and thicken it quickly on the fire; when quite thick, take off the pan, work in the yolks of three or four eggs, and let this cool. Boil or simmer the remainder of the Batter for about forty-five minutes, adding from time to time a little warm milk to lighten it, as it must be quite light and free from grains. Well butter a baking-sheet, pour over a thin layer of the egg Batter, brown and dry it in a slack oven; take it out, cut it up into pieces, and remove them from the sheet by pushing a knife-blade under them. Pour the other mixture into a deep dish, cover with the pieces, and serve. Schwarn Batter.—Mix a little sugar, salt, and grated lemon- peel with Jib. of flour, adding the beaten yolks of four eggs and sufficient milk or cream to make it the consistency of thick Batter. Whisk the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, then stir them into the Batter. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a saucepan, and when melted pour in the Batter, put the lid on, and leave till the Batter is lightly browned at the bottom; then break it up with a fork, and leave it till set and browned again. Turn the Batter out, tear it lightly into small pieces, put it into a hot dish, pour some stewed fruit over it, and serve at once. BATVINA, or BATUINIA.—This is the name of a Russian soup which has the unusual characteristic of being served cold. Although the mode of spelling varies somewhat according to different authorities, it is probable that the two ways given are pronounced in Russia very much the same. Dubois gives for its preparation a receipt somewhat as follows: Blanch separately 4 handfuls of well-washed spinach and 2 handfuls of sorrel. Boil and drain them, and then press them through a sieve to make a puttie. Mix them together in a large kitchen basin, and moisten with lqt. of kislichi, a kind of sourish beer, made in Russia, in some respects resembling cider, and foaming like champagne. To this mixture add £ teaspoonful of moist sugar, and when that is stirred in, pour the whole into a silver stewpan, and keep the contents simmering by the side of the fire for a time, and then set it on the ice. Pick out five or six dozen crayfish tails, cut into thin slices a piece of braised sturgeon, and another of cold boiled salmon. Lay these on a dish. Pare two or three salted gherkins, and cut them into small squares. Garnish round the dish with little piles of these, and a tuft of scraped horseradish at each side or end. Put a few pieces of ice in the soup, and serve with the fish and garnish. BAVARIAN’ BBBR.—According to some authori- ties, there is more beer consumed in Bavaria in pro- portion to the population than in any other country in the world. The average beer brewed is not of a very high alcoholic character, and is said to obtain some of its characteristic flavour from the pitch used to line the casks. Beer brewed from wheat—white beer—is mono- polised by the Duke of Bavaria, who has established a Royal white-beer brewery. BAVARIAN CREAMS.—A great variety of these are to be found under the name of Bavakoises, to which reference must be made for receipts for their preparation. BAVARIAN SAUCE.—See Sauces.