143 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to see under their special heads. Biscuits—continued. Imitation. Fruit Biscuits.—These are more especially useful for garnishing creams, jellies, and other sweet entremets. They should not be made large, and require considerable tact in shaping. This, however, can be effected readily enough with a bag or Biscuit-forcer and funnel (see Figs. 153, 155). The funnel should be of medium size. The paste for making Biscuits to imitate any kind of fruit is prepared thus : Break six eggs, and put the whites in one basin and the yolks in another. Into the basin holding the yolks put Jib. of caster sugar and 1 teaspoonful of lemon-zest (grated lemon-peel); beat up with a wooden spoon to a stiff mixture, and add the six whites previously beaten together; then stir in lightly Jib. of sifted flour (best pastry whites). Place some of this dough in a Biscuit-forcer, lay out on a sheet of lightly- greased paper marked with lines to show the shape of the halves of the fruit you wish to imitate, dust over with sugar, and bake in a slow oven. Bemove the halves from the paper, and join them together with apricot jam. Cut some thin strips of green angelica, and stick them in the Biscuits to form stalks. Dip in a glace icing coloured appropriately, and finish as follows: For Apricots.—Colour the icing a pale yellow with a tinge of saffron, and put on delicately the pink patches with a feather dipped in dry carmine. Use saffron and cochineal for tingeing icing. For Peaches.—Same as for apricots. For Pears.—Very pale green tinge of spinach extract to icing sugar; currant for eye, and strip of angelica for stalk. For Plums. — Tinge the icing sugar with extract of spinach. It is very evident from the above that the fruit and other designs which may be produced in the above way are almost indefinite. Imperial Biscuits.—Bub Jib. of butter into 1 Jib. of flour; then mix 1 Jib. of sugar with the flour and butter, make a bay, put in four beaten eggs and 1 pinch of powdered ammonia, and mix all well together. Boll out a piece at a time Jin. thick, and cut into Jin. strips; cut these strips into 2in. lengths, and place about lin. apart on slightly-buttered tins. The oven should be very slow. Kent Biscuits.—Bub lib. of butter in with 41b. of flour; or make a bay of the flour, and cream the butter by working it near the fire with a spoon; take ten beaten eggs, 1 Jib. of sugar, and 2 teaspoonfuls of powdered ammonia, and pour into the bay; mix well together and make into a dough. Boll out a sheet about Jin. thick, stamp out pieces with a small scal- loped cutter (see Fig. 157), lay these on lump sugar previously broken into pieces the size of split peas, and then place them on tins slightly buttered. Brush over the tops with white of egg, and bake in a moderate oven. Lady’s Fingers.—(1) Bub Jib. of butter into 31b. of flour pre- viously mixed with Jib. of caster sugar, and drop in all about 30 drops of essence of lemon. Mix all these ingredients with milk into a firm dough, and put this in a cloth for half-an- hour to settle before using. At the expiration of this time, put it under the Biscuit-break (see Fig. 149) or beat with a rolling-pin, until it is thoroughly smooth; then roll out thin. Fig. 163. Tin for Lady's Fingers. and cut into strips, and these into 5in. lengths; but if these Biscuits are wanted for charlottes, it is imperative that they should be cut out with a pastry-cutter shaped for this pur- pose, or forced from the bag into grooves made on purpose for them in a hollow sheet or tin (Figs. 163, 164). If cut out Biscuits—continued. with a pastry-cutter, set them on an oiled baking-sheet, bake in a hot oven till a very light brown, remove from the sheet, Fig. 164. Tin for Lady's Fingers. and dry on a cloth or wire sieve (see Fig. 164) before the fire, or in a screen. Fig. 165. Biscuit Wire Tray or Drainer. (Wm. Smith and Co.) (2) Put 4oz. of powdered sugar and the yolks of five eggs into a small bowl, and beat thoroughly with a spatula for five minutes. Put the whites of the eggs into a copper- basin, and with a wire whisk beat them to a stiff froth. Add to the sugar and yolks 4oz. of flour, mix tog-ether gently for a minute-and-a-half, and then add the whites. Beat gently for one minute more, and the preparation will be ready. Take a well-cleaned pastry-bag, slide into it a small tube, and with a wooden spoon or small skimmer pour the preparation into the bag. When it is all in, close the upper part of the bag very firmly, and lay it aside for one moment. Take two separate sheets of solid brown paper, each measuring 17in. long by 5in. wide; lay them on the table, one beside the other. Take hold of the lower part of the bag near the tube with the left hand, and the upper part with the right; press with the latter, and drop the batter on the paper in straight strips 4in. long by lin. wide. Make ten of equal size on each paper, being careful to leave an interval of fin. between each. Then with a sugar-dredger sprinkle them lightly with powdered sugar three times, at one minute’s interval between each sprinkling. When finished, lift up one paper at a time, keeping it perfectly straight, and shake off the loose sugar, being particular that the Biscuits do not detach themselves from the paper. Now lay them in a baking-plate, and let them rest for two minutes; put into a slow oven, and bake for twenty minutes or until of a. light golden colour. Bemove, lift them from the plate, and lay on a table to cool. Have ready a dessert-dish with a folded napkin; then detaching the Biscuits gently from the paper with the hands, dress them neatly on the dish, and send to table. * Lemon-flavoured Biscuits.—Bub Jib. of butter into Jib. of flour, add Jib. of caster sugar and 20 drops of essence