180 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bread—con tinned. melted butter, bake them in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, or until done, and serve hot. Swedish Bolls.—Dissolve J teacupful of sugar and 1 tea- spoonful of salt in 1 pint of boiling milk, and melt 1 tea- cupful of butter. When the milk is lukewarm, add the butter, 1 teacupful of yeast, and the whites of two eggs, and mix tin sufficient flour to form a batter, setting this to rise; then add more flour, to form a stiff dough, and knead it well for about twenty minutes; let it rise again for several hours, then knead it slightly, and roll it out into a large rectangular piece about Jin. in thickness, keeping the edges as straight as possible. Spread over this a thin layer of butter, and sprinkle it with a little each of sugar, cinnamon, grated lemon-rind, and currants. Boll up the dough, cut off slices about lin. in thickness, put these on a well-buttered baking- dish, let them rise again, and bake in a hot oven for from fifteen to twenty minutes. When done, glaze them with sugar dissolved in milk, or rub them over with soft butter, dry them in the oven for a few minutes, and they are ready. Should the mixture be made in the morning, make a sponge with the scalded milk cooled, the eggs, salt, sugar, and part of the flour. Place the bowl containing this in a pan of warm water for two or three hours; then add the butter and remainder of the flour, and knead well; when risen, roll out as before. Tea or Breakfast Bolls.—Sift lib. of flour on to a table and rub in 4oz. of butter. Make a hollow in the flour, work in one egg and 1 table-spoonful of yeast dissolved in a little warmed milk, and set it to rise in a warm place. When it has risen, form a light dough, and let this rise again in front of the fire; then shape it into rolls, put these in front of the fire again for about ten minutes, brush them over with egg, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Tea Bolls.—Put ljlb. of flour in a bowl, and place it near the fire where it will just get warm. Slightly warm 6oz. of butter, and beat it with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, the yolks of three eggs, and the white of one. Dissolve 2 table-spoonfuls of dry yeast in J pint of warm milk, mix it with the beaten eggs, and then stir the whole gradually into the flour. Well beat the mixture with a wooden spoon until a light dough is formed. If too stiff, use more milk. Take the dough up a table-spoonful at a time, and roll it with floured hands into small oval shapes, pointing them slightly at each end. Butter a baking- sheet, and place the rolls on it, leaving a short space between each; leave them covered with a cloth in a warm place until well risen. Beat the whites of two eggs with J table-spoonful of caster sugar, then dip a paste-brush in it, and brush over the tops of the rolls. Bake them in a brisk oven until lightly coloured, but not browned. Turin Bolls.—Prepare a sponge with lOoz. of flour and 1 breakfast-cupful of warm milk. Dissolve 2oz. of sugar and Joz. of salt in 1 table-spoonful of water, mix this into lib. 14oz. of flour, with the yolks of eight eggs and Jib. of butter made hot without boiling, and stir thoroughly. Let the sponge rise, add to it the egg paste, cover it over, and let it remain for several hours; then add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, and work the preparation with the hand against the side of the pan until it becomes quite elastic. Half-fill some small well-buttered moulds with it, let it rise again in a warm place, put the mould on a baking-sheet in a quick oven, and bake to a light colour. The rolls may also be made into shaj)e by the hand on a floured board (making them about ljin. thick in the centre and pointing the ends), put on a baking-sheet, brushed over with egg, a small cut made in each centre, and baked without being allowed to rise. Twists.— (1) Stir 2 table-spoonfuls of dry yeast into 1 pint of warm milk until dissolved; then make a well in the centre of 21b. of flour, pour in the milk, and work the whole gradually into a smooth dough. Cover the dough with a cloth, and keep it in a warm temperature until risen. Slightly warm Jib. of butter, then beat it with four eggs and about 1 teaspoonful of pounded cloves. Thoroughly beat the butter and eggs in with the dough, and let it rise again. Divide the dough into three equal portions, roll these out on a floured paste board into three long strips, then plait them (see Fig-. 200, in which the upper right-hand loose piece should be shown higher and Bread—continued. broader) and point them at each end. Lay the twists on a buttered baking-sheet, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven, not allowing them to take too much colour. Fig. 200. Plaiting Twist. (2) Prepare a sponge with 2 Jib. of sifted flour, 2oz. of German yeast, 4oz. of warmed butter, a little salt, sufficient lukewarm water to form a dough, and set it to prove, or rise. Knead it well, form it into twists, or any fancy shapes, put these on buttered baking-sheets, let them rise for a short time, brush them over with millc-and-egg, bake them in a quick oven, and they are ready for use. Vienna Bolls.—(1) Dissolve 1 teacupful of German yeast in lqt. of lukewarm milk, stir .in lib. of fine flour, and set to sponge; three hours afterwards add 1 table-spoonful each of salt and moist sugar, and make all up into a stiff dough. Let this rise for four hours, then work it well on a table or board, and roll it out to about Jin. in thickness; then cut it into strips about Gin. in width; these must be cut again into long triangles, not very wide at the base. Boll these pieces up, commencing from the base or bottom, and the top of the triangle will come in the centre of the roll. Boll them a little with the hands, then put them in a crescent shape on to a baking-sheet, and brush over with melted lard or water; let them rise on the sheets for half-an-hour, and then bake for about ten minutes, or until lightly coloured. (2) Dissolve in 1 pint of new milk Jib. of moist sugar; add Jib. of warmed butter, 2oz. of German yeast, and stir in enough Vienna flour to make a stiff dough. Shape this into pointed rolls, and bake a dark brown in a quick oven. From the foregoing list of receipts many excellent Breads may be prepared, and from the following a great variety of dishes in which Bread forms an important ingredient. The very great adaptability of Bread to the cook’s purposes renders its use almost universal, and for this reason it is impossible to give raider this one heading more than a typical selection. Baden-Baden Bread Pudding1. - Work lib. of warmed butter with a spoon until it is thick like cream, gradually adding eight yolks and four whites of eggs. Moisten lib. of Bread cut into small squares with a little cream, and let it remain for ten minutes to soak; then press it with a spoon to extract all the moisture possible, beat it into a pulp, and add Jib. of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of flour; work it a little while after adding these, and then put in the butter, &c., with lib. of sultana raisins and 1