THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 223 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Cabbages—continued. grated Parmesan. Put a layer of shaped slices of bread on the bottom of a dish, then a layer of Cabbage, and so on. alternately, pouring a little broth over each layer. Pill up the dish, sprinkle oyer all a handful of grated Par- mesan, put the dish in the oven, and let it remain for twenty minutes. Serve the Gratinated Cabbages and remain- ing broth separately ; but first strain and clear it of fat. Minced Cabbage. — Boil a Cabbage and press it dry in a colander, then chop it up very finely. Put into a frying-pan Jib. of fresh butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour; place it over the fire, and as soon as it becomes smooth and hot, add the Cabbage, and season with pepper, salt, and 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar ; let it fry for five minutes, stirring constantly. Place it when done on a dish, smooth it over with a knife, and place pieces of hard-boiled egg round it for garnish. Pickled White Cabbage.—(1) Remove tho tough part of the stalks from four large white Cabbages, cut them into slices, put them in an earthen jar or a wooden tub, sprinkle over about J pint of salt, and let them stand overnight. The next day draw off tho brine, put the Cabbage over the fire, with four peeled and chopped onions, 4oz. of mustard-seed, 2oz. each of ground mustard, celery-seed, and turmeric, loz. each of whole mace, cloves, allspice, and popper, 21b. of brown sugar, and enough vinegar to cover the whole. Boil all these ingre- dients together until the stalks of the Cabbage aro tender ; then cool the pickle, and put it up in air-tight jars. (2) Select three or four large white-heart Cabbages, and trim off the outside leaves; wash them in salted water, then drain, and cut them each crosswise into pieces. Place a small quantity of yeast at the bottom of a stone jar, and put in the Cabbage, with 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped capsi- cums ; cover with brine, and place the lid on tho jar. Keep the pickle in a dry store-cupboard, and at tho end of every three or four days pour tho brine in the jar backwards and forwards. When the Cabbage has turned acid, it is ready for use. (3) Remove the defective, bruised, and green coarse outer leaves of firm white Cabbages, and slice enough to fill a 4qt. measure. Take an equal quantity each of green tomatoes, small green cucumbers, and green peppers, and slice them thin, after wiping with a wet cloth. Put the wliolo into earthen or wooden vessels, sprinkling 1 pint of salt among them, and let them stand overnight; drain them tho next day, and put them into a preserving-pan with 1 pint of small red peppers and the following spices: loz. each of wholo mace, peppercorns, mus- tard-seed, and powdered turmeric, Joz. each of wholo cloves, celery-seed, and grated horseradish, and sufficient vinegar to cover them. Boil them gently for lialf-an-hour, then cool them, and put up in earthen or glass jars with close covers. See also Chow-Chow. Stewed Cabbage Stuffed with Forcemeat.—Trim off the outer leaves and chop off tho stalk of a largo Cabbage, put it into a bowl of boiling water, and scald it for about ten minutes. Cut a small holo in the centro by the side of the stalk, fill it up with highly-seasoned beef or mutton force- meat, and put a small quantity of this between tho leaves. Tie tho Cabbage round with broad tape to keep in tho forcemeat, place it upright in a saucepan, with a slice of fat bacon, two carrots, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme, pour in sufficient stock to nearly cover it, place the saucepan on a slow fire, and cook gently until tho Cabbage is done. Romovo the tape, put tho Cabbage on a dish, and servo with a garnish of cooked carrots and turnips cut in slices or whole. Stewed Cabbage and Tinned Beef.—Take a fine, firm, well- hearted Cabbage (or, should tho Cabbages bo small, take two), cut out all tho stalk, and chop tho Cabbage into very thin strips; wash these well, and drain them. Have a large pan of water boiling, throw in a handful of salt, and, if necessary, skim it; put tho Cabbage into the water while it is boiling fast, and lot it boil hard for ten or fifteen minutes till the Cabbage is tender; then turn it into a colander, press the water from it thoroughly, and chop it a little. Put about 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, and when it molts put tho Cabbage on top of it, season with pepper and salt, and stir it over a clear fire till it seems pretty dry. Shake in lightly 1 table-spoonful of flour, then add very gradually the gravy in which tho beef has been cooked, which should, while the Cabbages—continued. Cabbage was being cooked, have been done in the following way: Open the tin, turn the beef out and scrape off the fat, then put it back in tho tin with its gravy and a little water; place the tin in a stowpan of boiling water, and keep the water boiling till tho moat is hot through. When the beef is hot, put it on tho dish it is to be served on, and arrange the Cabbago round it. Stewed 'White Cabbage. — (1) Trim off the outside and discoloured leaves of two Cabbages, wash them, put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt and a small piece of charcoal, and boil them until tender. The object of the charcoal is to remove the unpleasant odour that arises from Cabbage when boiling. When tender, turn the Cab- bage into a colander and press it, to extract as much of tho water as possible, then cut them into fine shreds. Put about 4oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then put in the Cabbage, toss it about over tho fire for three or four minutes, then dredge it with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of flour, and pour in 1 pint of clear broth. Boil slowly until the liqour has somewhat reduced, then turn tho Cabbage on to a hot dish, and serve while very hot. (2) Cut a Cabbago into strips, wash it, and drain it dry. Tie a small onion and 1 teaspoonful of wholo allspice in a bit of muslin, and put it with the Cabbage into a stowpan, to- gether with 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, a piece of fresh butter the size of a large walnut, pepper and salt to taste, and 1 breakfast-cupful of good gravy or stock. Simmer gently till the liquor lias almost simmered away and tho Cabbage is done. Take out the spice and onion before serving'. (3) Trim off the outer loaves and remove tho stalks from a white Cabbago, and cut the remaining leaves into pieces. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan with a finely-chopped onion, and place it over the fire until hot; then put in the Cabbage, and set the pan at tho edge of the fire, where it may cook slowly with tho lid on. When the Cabbage is three-parts done, dredge it over with flour, salt, pepper, and a small quantity of caraway-seeds (these may be omitted if not approved), put the lid on again, and finish cooking it. Care must be taken not to lot it get too dry, or it will burn. A small quantity of milk or broth may be added if necessary. Turn the Cabbage on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) Bavabian.—Remove the outer leaves and wash one or two large white Cabbages, cut them into quarters, remove tho thick stalks, and cut tho Cabbages into thin slices; strew salt over these (tho Germans use caraway-seeds as well), and leave them for an hour or two. When ready, put 3oz. of butter in a stewpan, make it hot, put in the Cabbage, and place the lid on the stewpan ; keep it at the edge of the fire until the Cabbago is tender. Pour 1 wineglassful of white wino and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar over the Cabbage, stew a short time longer, then dredge with flour, put tho pan over the fire, and stir briskly. Turn the Cabbage on to a hot dish, and serve. (5) GjJRMAN.--Trim off all the discoloured leaves and wash a Cabbago well, then put it into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil it for ten minutes. At tho end of that time turn tho Cabbago into a colander, and when it has well drained cut it into small pieces. Put about 4oz. of chopped fat pork into a stewpan, toss it about over a brisk firo until three- parts cooked, then put in tho Cabbage, and finish cooking, stirring it at tho samo time. When nearly cooked, moisten tho Cabbago with a small quantity of clear gravy. Turn it on to a dish, and serve while very hot. Stuffed Cabbage.—(1) Take a large head of Cabbage and boil it, but not quite tender. Very carefully take out tho middle of it with a long, sharp knife, and fill it with a mix- ture of 1 table-spoonful of minced suet, 2 table-spoonfuls of bacon or ham, 2 table-spoonfuls of any cold meat, one raw egg, the grated rind of a lemon, a little grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt to taste. Milk may bo used instead of tho egg. Tie the Cabbage with string, put it in the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Put it on a dish, and pour some rich brown gravy round, but not over, it. The Cabbage must be frequently basted with dripping or butter, and must not bo allowed to brown or get dry. (2) Cut out tho root and heart from a medium-sized Cabbage-head, pick off several of the outer leaves, and blanch the remainder; then open the leaves carefully so as