THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 85 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bath. Buns—continued. it may be put in tbe screen before tbe fire, but in hot weather the fermentation will proceed more satisfactorily if it is placed on the kitchen table, or in some such place of moderate warmth. This part of the operation is termed “ setting the sponge.” Next, put the remainder of the flour on the slab, and spread it out to form a hollow in the centre; then put in the salt and the sugar, pour in a little water to dissolve them, add the butter, break in six eggs, and work the whole well together with the hands until it is well mixed; then rubbing the paste with both fists held flat on the slab, move them to and fro, so as to reduce any remaining lumps to smoothness. By the time that the paste is mixed, the sponge will probably have risen sufficiently. To be perfect it must have been increased three times its original size. Spread it out on the paste ready to receive it. It should present the appearance of what is called a honeycomb sponge, full of holes, from which cir- cumstance it takes its name. Both the above should then be immediately, gently but thoroughly, mixed. A napkin must be spread in a wooden bowl, or basin, some flour shaken all over the bottom and sides, and the paste lifted into it. Sprinkle some flour over the paste, and after throwing the corners of the napkin over all, set the bowl containing the paste in a cool place in the larder or cellar, free from any current of air, till the next morning. Take up lib. of this paste, add thereto 1 gill of cream, 1 small glass of orange-flower water, 4oz. of cut candied peel, and 2oz. of cherry-kernel comfits. Mix all together, divide the whole into twelve equal parts, knead them into round balls, and press them down slightly upon buttered baking-sheets. Egg them over, sprinkle nibs of loaf sugar upon them, and bake them in a moderate heat till brown. (4) Take lib. of fine flour, the grated peel of two lemons, Jib. of butter melted and stirred into 1 teacupful of cream, 1 teaspoonful of yeast, and three eggs. Mix thoroughly, and add £lb. of powdered loaf sugar. Mix this well again, and let it stand to rise, and then pinch off pieces sufficiently large to fill a table-spoon. Shape these on a buttered baking- sheet, and put into a hot oven to cook. This quantity should make about three dozen buns. (5) Eor about a dozen buns take lib. of flour, 8oz. of butter, 8oz. of sugar, four eggs, a little warm milk, loz. of yeast, some citron-peel cut small, and half a grated nutmeg. Bub the butter in with the flour, make a bay, and break the eggs into it; add the yeast, with sufficient milk to make the whole into a dough of moderate consistence, and put in a warm place to rise. When it has risen enough, mix in the peel, a little essence of lemon, and the sugar, which should be in small pieces about the size of peas. Divide into pieces for buns, prove (that is, leave to rise in a warm place), and bake in gentle heat. They may be washed with egg and dusted with sugar before proving. (6) Take 41b. of flour, 11b. of butter, 6oz. of sugar, 4oz. of yeast, four eggs, and sufficient milk to make all into a dough, adding essence of lemon. Warm the milk, add the sugar and yeast, with sufficient flour to make a ferment. When ready, add butter, eggs, and remainder of flour, with currants or peel to taste. Weigh or divide into 3oz. each, mould them round, egg over the top, and roll in caster sugar. Slightly prove, and bake in a moderate oven. (7) The following receipt is that generally preferred by the famous William Gunter : Bub £lb. of butter into lib. of flour, and add five beaten eggs and 1 teacupful of yeast. Having well mixed the whole of these ingredients in a large pan, put it in a warm place to prove, and when sufficiently risen add ^lb. of finely-powdered sugar and loz. of powdered caraway-seeds well mixed in. Boll out, and shape into little cakes, and bake on buttered tins in a hot oven. Sift a little powdered loaf sugar on top, and stick on a few caraway comfits before putting the tins in the oven. BATH CAKES.—See Cakes. BATH CHAPS. — This somewhat fanciful title appears to have no definite meaning so far as the name of the city is concerned. It is only natural to associate it in some way or other with the fashionable watering- place; but there are no authentic records that we know of to connect smoked chaps with Bath. They form, Bath Chaps—continued. however, a very delicious breakfast-dish when boiled or baked, and are prepared as follows: Select cheeks from pigs not weighing more than 8 score. To each stone of chaps mix lib. each of coarse sugar and bay- or rock-salt, and loz. each of pepper and saltpetre. Bub well daily for a week ; turn in the pickle for another fort- night ; wipe dry. Coat with coarse oatmeal warmed in an oven, and hang up to dry for a week, and then put in a smoke-house for a month. See Cueing. Bath Chaps are best cooked by boiling, after soaking in water for a few hours. They do not require more than an hour or three-quarters of sharp cooking, according to size, and should then be allowed to cool a bit in the liquor, after which skin and sprinkle with raspings of crust, or crushed baked breadcrumbs. BATH OLIVER BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. BATH PIPE.—Tbis sweetmeat is a great favourite in all families as a sedative in cases of irritable cough. It is easily made, and the following is an excellent receipt for it: Put 3oz. of gum dragon into a basin of water; allow it to soak for a day, and then rub it through a sieve. Put lqt. of this gum mucilage into a basin with joz. of oil of aniseed and 21b. of extract of liquorice made into a solution, and work in sufficient finely-crushed and sifted loaf sugar to form a very stiff paste. Pull off a small piece, roll it out with the hands until it is of the required thickness, then roll it out again with a board, pressing it very slightly and evenly, so as to have the pipe of an equal thickness all over, and with a smooth surface. Arrange these pipes on a sieve, put them in the hot closet to dry, take them out when done, and they are ready for use. BATH POLONIES.—See Polonies. BATH PUDDING—See Puddings. A BATONS.—This is the name given by French con- fectioners to what would be termed generally in this country “sugar sticks.” There are several receipts given for them. Milanese Batons. -— Put £lb. of flour on a marble slab, make a hole in the centre, and mix in 5oz. of loaf sugar crushed and sifted, 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar, two eggs, and a small quantity of salt. Work well until the mixture is quite elastic, then divide it into twenty-four parts of equal size. Put these on a floured board, and roll them out into thin sticks. As soon as this is done, put them on a baking-sheet, pressing down the ends to keep the sticks straight while baking. Place in a moderate oven, and bake for about eight minutes. Take them out when done, and put in tins for future use. BATON DE JACOB.—A little French cake of an oblong shape, made of a spongy character, in two halves, hollowed, into which flavoured cream is put before fastening the two halves together. The tops are often covered with chocolate icing, or other kinds of different flavour and colours. BATTEBi.—A mixture of flour, water, milk, and eggs is so called from the amount of “ battering,” or beating, required to mix it. French cooks have no definite name for this mixture, although it is frequently used by them in preparing English and some foreign dishes. Batter holds a very important position in British cookery, as is testified by the variety of receipts given hereunder; and in some parts of England, especially in Yorkshire, it is so highly esteemed that scarcely a dinner is provided at which it does not appear in some form or other. For frying purposes, Batter is sometimes better than, or preferred to, the old-fashioned egg-and- breadcrumb dressing—due in a measure, perhaps, to the simplicity of its application; but, excepting in rare cases, the egg-and-breadcrumb results are considered by good cooks to be more satisfactory and refined. As a paste I for puddings, it is capable of a great variety of adaptations,