TIIE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 91 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Beans—continued. drained, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and steam them gently for six or seven minutes, stirring constantly. When done, turn the preparation out on to a dish, and serve at once. (2) Put 2qt.s. of blanched Beans into a saucepan with loz. of butter, and cook on the stove for five minutes, tossing them well. Season with i pinch of salt, the same of pepper, and add \ bunch of chives, and two sprigs of parsley tied together. Pour in ij breakfast-cupful of cream or milk, diluted with the yolks of two eggs. Heat well, without boiling, for five minutes. Then serve as a hors d’oeuvre or entremet. Sugar may be added with advantage, if desired. French Beans with Garlic.—Boil the Beans in slightly- salted water until they are tender. Take two small pieces of garlic which have been crushed on the dresser with a wooden spoon, and mix them with a little fresh butter. Drain quite dry, and then stir in lightly the garlic with £lb. of butter, and keep stirring the Beans till the whole is well combined. Mix some fine herbs, such as parsley and shallots, chopped fine, or green onions, with the above, and pour over them a little olive oil. Continue the stirring, and then the oil will form a paste. Season it well, and add the juice of a lemon. Servo up hot and quickly, that the oil may not drop through. French Beans with Gravy.— Put 1 pint or so of cold, cooked French Beans into a saucepan with a little chopped parsley and onions, fried in butter, season to taste with salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire for about ten minutes. Now pour in sufficient stock and gravy from roasted meat to moisten, cook gently for fifteen minutes, skim out the Beans and put them on a dish. Add the yolks of two or three eggs to the gravy to thicken it, pour it over the Beans, and serve very hot. French Beans with Parsley and Butter.—Put about 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, sprinkle in a few chopped, green parsley leaves, and about lqt. of French Beans, stir well until the butter is melted, the Beans are coated with it, and the parsley is equally spread over them. Cover over the pan, cook gently on the side of the fire for fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve. French Beans a la Ponlette.—(1) Prepare and boil the Beans as before, and when done drain them quite dry, put them into a stewpan with £ pint of bechamel sauce, 6 table-spoonfuls of stock, pepper, salt, 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, a bunch of small green onions, and parsley, and stew gently for ten minutes ; take out the bunch, add 1 tcaspoonful of chopped parsley, and finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with 1 gill of cream ; stir this in quickly, and when it begins to thicken, it is ready to serve. (2) Prepare the required quantity of young French Beans by stringing them or removing the fibres; wash them thoroughly, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them. When done, strain off the water, add a little warm butter, well seasoned with chopped parsley and chives, toss the pan over the fire for a few minutes, mix in a little flour and salt, pour in a sufficient quantity of stock to moisten, reduce quickly, and add the yolks of eggs to thicken. When done, remove the saucepan from the fire, squeeze in a, little lemon- juice, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. French-Bean Salad.—(1) Blanch some French Beans, cut up into diamond-shaped pieces, let them cool, and drain thoroughly; mix them up with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and a little ravi- gote sauce, turn the salad into a croustade made of paste, and serve cold. (2) Take lqt. of cooked French Beans; place them in a * salad-bowl, seasoning with 1 pinch of salt, £ pinch of pepper, and sprinkle over 1 pinch of chopped parsley; add 3 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, and 2 table-spoonfuls of oil, and mix all well together with a wooden spoon before serving. French Beans ■with Salted Herrings.—This is a much esteemed German dish, and is very easily prepared. Slice lengthwise a few handfuls of tender French Beans, put them into a saucepan and moisten to half their height with white broth. Bring the liquor to the boil, remove the pan to a moderate fire, and finish cooking the Beans. When they are done and the liquor is well reduced, season with salt, Beans—continued. pepper, and pounded dry or chopped fresh savoury, add a thickening of butter, turn the whole out on a dish, and keep hot. Well wash two or three salted herrings, cut off their heads, skin them and cut them up into slices, slightly slant- ing. Spread a dish over with vino-leaves, arrange the herrings in their original forms on top, and serve at the same time as the Beans. French. Beans Sautes in Butter.—Take £qt. of fine French Beans, parboil them in boiling and slightly-salted water for one-and-a-half minutes, drain them on a colander, and place them immediately in a saucepan on a hot stove with loz. of butter; season with 1 teaspoonful of salt, and shuffle lightly with a wooden spoon while cooking for three minutes. When ready add § teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley; place them on a hot dish, and serve. Mixed Beans Fanaclies.—Place § pint of cooked blanched French Beans and the same quantity of Scarlet-runners or Lima Beans in a saute-pan with ljoz. of butter, season with \ pinch each of salt and pepper, toss them well while cooking for five minutes, place them on a hot dish, sprinkle over a pinch of chopped parsley, and serve. Pickled French Beans.—(1) For this, the Beans should bo gathered before they are stringy, and the stalk-end should not be cut off. Put the required quantity into a basin of brine—which must bo very strong—and let them remain until they turn yellow. Take out and drain them, put them into a jar, pour over boiling water, cover over to prevent the steam escaping, and let them remain for a day. Drain off the water and repeat the process for four days, by which time the Beans will turn green again. Turn them, without the water, into a jar, add a little bruised ginger and a few peppercorns, pour over hot vinegar to cover them, and in a day or two they will be ready for use. (2) Put the French Beans into a bowl together with 'suffi- cient brine to cover them, and let them remain for a day; boil up the brine and pour it over them, continuing this for ten days, and then leave them for two or three weeks before boil- ing again. Put them into fresh water to soak out the salt, changing it frequently until they are sufficiently fresh; then put them into an iron vessel, with sufficient vinegar to cover them, and keep them on the side of the fire until the liquor is nearly boiling. Take them out, put them into another vessel, cover with more cold vinegar, and add a seasoning of mustard-seed, olive oil, green pepper pods, horseradish, allspice, ginger, mace, and cloves, mixing in lib. of moist sugar to each gallon of vinegar. In a few days the Beans will be fit for use. Flageolets.—This is a term used for French Beans in their second stage—that is, before the shells are too old to be eaten, and the Beans inside are green and like peas. They can be cooked in the same way as green peas; but if they are in cans or preserved, they must be well washed and dried on a cloth before being used. Haricot Beans (Fr. Haricots blancs; Ger. Weisse Bohnen).—These are simply the dried seeds of the Kidney Bean, of which the white variety, whether large (runner) or small (dwarf) are usually selected for cooking. The reason of this selection is chiefly for the sake of appear- ance, there being little or no difference in the nutritive and culinary qualities of red or white. Before pur- chasing these Beans, it is advisable to snap one through, when the kernel being exposed will enable you to judge by its colour and general quality whether they are this year’s Beans or last. New Beans only are fit for cooking or eating—those of another year, whilst probably answering the purpose of seed, are so hardened by keeping that they are not only difficult to soften, but indigestible when served. The meal resembles that of the dried Broad Bean in some particulars, but differs in that it is much more delicately flavoured. Baked Haricot Beans.—Wash lqt. of Beaus, put them into a basin with sufficient cold water to cover them, and let them soak for ten or twelve hours. Strain off the water, put the Beans in a saucepan, cover them with boiling water, put 21b. of corned beef or pork into the saucepan with them, and boil until the Beans begin to split open. It will take from half- an-hour to an hour, according to the age of the Beans. Take