77 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Barberries—continued. removed, and then throw in Jib. of picked Barberries, remove from the fire or stove, cover, and leave for two or three hours to infuse. Then strain and squeeze the Barberries from the syrup through a white napkin. Dissolve 2oz. of fine gelatine in J pint of warm water, add the juice of one lemon, and mix with the syrup. Add also a few drops of infusion of cochineal to make a nice colour. Pack a plain cylinder mould in broken ice, and pour in a little of the jelly to the depth of Jin. When that is set, arrange on it a layer of the pieces of apple in any methodical design—on their backs as crescents, with one end pointing to the centre, does very well. Pour on sufficient jelly to just cover them, let that set, and arrange another layer of apple and again cover with jelly, and so on until the mould is full, taking care to finish with jelly. Put a small baking-sheet with ice on it over the mould, and let the jelly stand for at least two hours, then turn out on a suitable dish, and serve. Note that when filling the mould, the jelly must not be stiff, nor must it be warm ; but just in that agreeable intermediary condition which a little experience in jelly-making will teach you how to obtain and preserve. (2) Put into lqt. of boiling syrup Jib. of picked Barberries, and turn all into a basin. Put a cloth over the top, and let the contents stand for two hours. Dissolve 2oz. of gelatine in the whites of three eggs, the juice of 1 lemon, and 1J pints of water. Strain the Barberries through a fine hair sieve, and mix the syrup with the gelatine, colouring with a few drops of cochineal if required. Cut five cooking apples into about forty pieces, boil them in syrup, and drain them. Pour a little of the jelly into a plain cylinder mould, and when it has set put a layer of apple over it, then some more jelly, and so on until the mould is nearly full, letting each layer of jelly set before adding the fruit, and finishing with a layer of jelly on the top. Embed the mould in ice, cover with a baking-sheet, put ice on the top of that, and let the jelly freeze for two hours. Turn it out of the mould when ready to serve. Barberry Ketchup.—(1) Have 3qts. of Barberries stewed and strained; 4qts. of cranberries, 1 breakfast-cupful of stoned raisins, a large quince, and four small onions, all stewed with lqt. of water, and strained. Mix these ingredients with the Barberries, and add J pint of vinegar, £ breakfast-cupful of salt, Jib. of sugar, 1 dessert-spoonful each of ground cloves and ground allspice, 2 table-spoonfuls each of black pepper and ground celery-seed, 1 table-spoonful of ground mustard, 1 teaspoonful each of cayenne, cinnamon, and ginger, and a grated nutmeg. Let the whole boil up for a minute. If too thick, add vinegar or water till it is of a useful con- sistency. With the quantities given, about 3qts. of ketchup can be made. Bottle for future use. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of stoned raisins, four small onions, one large quince, and lgall. of cranberries into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil them until all are done. Strain off all the water, put the whole into a bowl, and mix in 3qts. of Barberries, also stewed and strained, 1 tea- cupful of vinegar, 1J teacupfuls of salt, 1 dessert-spoonful each of ground cloves and allspice, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of ground mustard, 2 table-spoonfuls each of black pepper and celery-seed, a grated nutmeg, and 1 teaspoonful each of cayenne and ground cinnamon and ginger. Boil for a minute, and if the ketchup is too thick, add a little water or more vinegar. These quantities will be sufficient to make about 3qts. of ketchup, which should be kej)t in bottles in a cool place. This ketchup is of American origin, but requires only to be known in this country to be a prime favourite. With chops, steaks, and some fish, it is superior to almost all other sauces. Barberry Marmalade.—Boil 21b. of ripe Barberries in 1 pint of water until they are soft; pour the liquor through a coarse sieve, and return to the preserving-pan, adding sufficient extra water to make lqt. In this water boil 41b. of preserving-sugar to make a strong syrup, and then put in the fruit and boil up again very gently for a quarter-of- an-hour or so, or until you are satisfied that the marmalade will set. Some confectioners would stir in thoroughly loz. of gelatine with the fruit. Put into jars, and tie down in the usual way. Barberries—continued. Barberry Syrup.—This syrup is valuable for so many pur- poses where the flavour and colour of Barberries are desired, that it may be prepared in as large quantities as you may please or estimate to meet your probable requirements. Select and pick over the fruit, and then mash it in a sieve, squeezing and pressing out all the juice you possibly can. A fruit-press will save a lot of trouble, and produce much more juice from the same quantity of berries. Pass the juice once or twice through a tammy or flannel bag, or until it is quite bright. Make a syrup by boiling to the crack (see Stjgar-boiling) lib. of sugar to every pint of water, and adding to this quantity J pint of juice. Stir well over the stove, and let it boil, removing scum as it rises. When it has boiled for a quarter-of-an-hour, strain through a flannel jelly-bag, and put into wide-mouthed bottles for future use. Barberry Tart.—Butter a deep dish, line it with any crust preferred, and bake in a quick oven. Pick the stalks off the fruit, put it into a saucepan with half its weight of sugar, or rather more if not quite ripe, pour in a very small quantity of water, and cook them over a slow fire. When cooked, turn the fruit into the crust, and serve. Barberry Water Ice.—Put into a small sugar-boiler 21b. of well-washed ripe Barberries, with 1 teacupful of water, and boil until quite soft, then pass through a sieve by rubbing' with the back of a wooden spoon. Into 1 pint of thick syrup stir 20 drops of essence of vanilla, 1 teaspoonful of infusion of cochineal, and the Barberry purde. Stand this in a freezer whilst you beat up the white of 1 egg- with a dessert-spoonful of caster sugar to make a meringue; work this into the syrup, and put into the freezer again to finish. Bottled Barberries.—(1) The fruit should be quite ripe. Pick the berries off the stalks, put into bottles, shake them down close, and fill up with a thin syrup. Stand in boiling water up to the shoulder for fifteen minutes ; cork and tie down. In Bunches.—(2) Wash the bunches by dipping them several times in tepid water in which a good lump of alum has been dissolved. Drain them, and afterwards lay the bunches carefully in close layers in the bottles prepared for them; fill up with syrup, and stand in boiling water for twenty minutes. Keep the water boiling, cork, and tie down. Compote of Barberries.—Pick off from the bunches all the bright red berries, wash them thoroughly by sousing several times in water, and drain them. Let them simmer gently for a quarter-of-an-hour in a good syrup, and when done pile them on a glass compote-dish, or compotier, and pour the syrup over them. Pickled Barberries.—Bemove the leaves and stalks from the required quantity of Barberries. Put them into bottles or jars, pour over sufficient well-salted water to cover them, and tie down with bladder. As soon as the scum rises, strain off the salted water, and add fresh ; cover over the bottles or jars again, and put them in a cool place until wanted. Vinegar is not used for this pickle, on account of the intense acidity of the juice of the fruit. Preserved Barberries.—(I) There are several modes of preserving this fruit. Put them into a jar in layers with a good sprinkling of salt between each layer, and tie paper over the top. (2) Take bunches of Barberries, and tie several together. Make a syrup, consisting of lib. of sugar boiled with £ pint of water, and clarify it with white of egg. When strained quite clear through a tammy, throw in the bunches, and boil quickly until the fruit looks slightly transparent. Pack them in jars, pour the syrup over, and when cold tie down with bladder. (3) Pick the fruit off the stalks on to a clean hair sieve, and rub the pulp through with a wooden spoon into a clean white pan. Add 4oz. of pounded sugar to each pound of pulp. Mix thoroughly, and fill the bottles. Cork, and stand in a pan of boiling water for ten minutes, and tie down whilst hot. Preserved Barberry Pulp.—Pick 41b. of Barberries, put them in a fine sieve, and rub through into a basin. Add ljlb. of crushed loaf sugar ; mix well together, put into bottles, cork, and tie down; place in a saucepan of water, and boil for eight minutes. Let this cool, then take out, and put. in a cold, dry place until wanted.