THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 220 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cabbages—continued. loz. of sugar in 1 gill of vinegar, and add 1 teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper. Pour this over the Cabbage, and then add a little more vinegar if desired. (2) Boil a firm head of white Cabbage of medium size in plenty of cold water, and cut it into thin slices. Put in a porcelain-lined saucepan over the fire £ breakfast-cupful each of vinegar and water, 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, | saltspoonful of pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Let them just begin to boil; then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, where its contents will not boil; stir in the yolks of four eggs, and as soon as this sauce is stirred smooth pour it over the cold Cabbage. Serve the cold slaw with roasted meat or poultry. (3) Hot.—Carefully wash a firm white Cabbage, cut it into shreds, and put it over the fire in boiling salted water to boil only until tender, which will take from five to twenty minutes, according to tho age of the Cabbage. Drain it, and serve with a dressing made as follows : Melt together by gentle heat 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, 1 teacupful of rich cream, and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and add them to the boiled Cabbage ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve tho hot slaw as soon as it is prepared, with any dish of fried poultry or meat. (4) Take a large clean Cabbage, chop it into fine shreds, put it into a stewpan, and boil until quite tender. There should be only just sufficient water, so that when the Cabbage is quite done there will bo very little left. To 1 teacupful of vinegar, add ljoz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Add this to the Cabbage, and put it over the fire, gently tossing the pan for about five minutes, when it will bo ready to serve. Blanched Cabbage.—Pare off the outer leaves from a medium- sized Cabbage, cut it into four square pieces, wash thoroughly, dry, and put them into a saucepan, covering with salted hot water. Cook for ten minutes, drain, and put them into cold water to cool; remove from the water, and drain again. Boiled Cabbages.—Remove the outside leaves and put the Cabbages into plenty of salted water to cleanse them, then into a saucepan with boiling salted water and boil up fast. Do not use a lid to cover them. When done, strain them well, cut into quarters (see Pig. 244), and serve at once. It is well to change the water when they have boiled for ten minutes, as this gives the Cabbages a better flavour. Boiled Cabbage and Bacon.—(1) Cut a large Cabbage into quarters and thoroughly cleanse it with salted water. One hour before serving, put it into the saucepan in which the bacon has been boiling. A pod of red pepper put with it will improve the flavour of botli bacon and Cabbage. (2) Cut up a large blanched Cabbage, put tho pieces into a saucepan with a piece of salted pork or bacon and a few slices of German sausage, season with grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and pour over sufficient water to moisten. Boil quickly over a good clear fire, then remove the saucepan to a smaller fire, and cook gently until the Cabbage is done. Put it on a dish together with the bacon or pork, reduce and thicken the liquor with a lump of butter rolled in flour, pour it over the whole, and serve. Boiled Cabbage with Cream.—Clean two Cabbages (young ones for preference) and boil until soft; then take them out of the water, drain, and press them until thoroughly dry. Chop them up fine and put them in a stewpan in which loz. of butter has been previously melted, and add pepper and salt to taste. Put the whole on the fire for two or three Cabbages—continued. minutes, and stir frequently. When it is quite hot, sprinkle a small handful of flour over it, and add gradually ^ pint of milk or cream. Mix all well together, and when done serve. Boiled Cabbage and Sausages.—Boil a Cabbage in the ordinary way, drain and squeeze it, put it on a board, and chop it finely, taking care that no lumps are left. Put it in a stewpan with a little butter, pepper and salt to taste, and heat it up again, but not enough to let it get brown; or fry. When hot, spread it in tho centre of a dish, and level the top with a spoon or knife ; on this put the sausages, either boiled or fried. Poached eggs may also be used, placed in tho middle of the Cabbage, and the sausages put round in a ring. Cabbage with Apples.—Wash and trim off the discoloured leaves of a Cabbage, put it into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil it for ten minutes. Drain the Cabbage in a colander, pressing it well to free it from water as much as possible. Peel about lib. of cooking apples, core them, and cut them in quarters ; put a good-sized lump of butter into a stewpan, place it over tho fire until melted, then put in the Cabbage and apples. Pour in £ pint of clear broth or water, season with salt and a small quantity of sugar, and stew the whole gently until tender. When cooked, turn the Cabbage and apples on to a hot dish, and serve. Cabbage Cake.—Wash and boil a large Cabbage, put it in a colander, and press it by putting a plate on the Cabbage; chop it finely. Have ready a pie-dish that is well buttered and sprinkled with fine breadcrumbs. Put in a layer of Cabbage and then a layer of any cold meat finely minced, and so on alternately until the dish is nearly full, but let the last layer bo of Cabbage. Put four or five rashers of fat bacon over the top, and place in a moderate oven. When the bacon is done and the remainder is heated through, which will take about forty minutes, turn it out as if it were in a mould on to a dish, and pour brown gravy round, but not over, it. Cabbage with Cream. — Drain and cool a well-blanched Cabbage, chop it up, and place it in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, seasoning with 1 pinch of salt, jj pinch of pepper, and i pinch of grated nutmeg ; add 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir well, and moisten with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Reduce until the Cabbage and cream are well incorporated, which will take about forty-five minutes. Arrange on a hot dish, and serve. Cabbage for Garnishing.—Put a Cabbage into a saucepan of boiling water, with a lump of salt and a small piece of com- mon soda about the size of a pea, and boil it for half-an- liour. At tho end of that time take the Cabbage out of the saucepan, refresh it with cold water, then drain it well and press the water out as much as possible. Chop the Cabbage finely, throwing away the coarse stalk; put 4oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, put in the Cabbage, dredge a small quantity of flour over, and toss it about until it begins to brown. Pour a small quantity of clear broth over the Cab- bage, stirring it at the same time, and when it boils season with salt, three or four peppercorns, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Continue boiling the sauce gently until sufficiently thick, then remove the peppercorns, and serve it. Cabbage au Gratin.—Boil a white-heart Cabbage until it is quite tender, divide it or cut it up into pieces, put a layer of these on a buttered baking-sheet, cover over with melted butter sauce mixed up with grated Gruyere and Parmesan cheeses, then put on another layer of Cabbage, and so on until all is used up. Sprinkle the surface with a little more grated cheese, then with breadcrumbs, pour over a small quantity of hot butter, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot. The cheese may be omitted if objected to, and care must be taken to serve the Cabbage entirely covered with the sauce. Cabbage a la Mode.—Choose a close, firm head of Cabbage, and wash it well in cold water; have ready a saucepan of boiling water, put into it a very small piece of common soda about twice the size of a pea, then when the water boils very fast put in the Cabbage, and let it boil fast for a-quarter- of-an-hour ; take it out, put it into a colander to drain, and let it cool a little. Take -jib. of cold roasted or boiled chicken, half that weight of cold boiled pork, and one large onion, and