189 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Bread—continued. and not allowing it to colour; moisten with 5 pint of broth, stir until it boils, and then remove it to the side of the fire to simmer; let it remain for an hour, then skim off the fat, and thicken with sis yolks of eggs. Remove it from the fire, and add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of minced cold fowl or turkey; or use in any other way required. Bread Panada with Milk.—Put the required quantity of Breadcrumbs into a basin, pour in sufficient milk to soak them, and stir well before the fire until they are quite dry. Mix in yolk of egg to make it the required thickness, pack it in jars, cover these over, and keep them in a cool place until wanted. This is generally used for quenelles or forcemeat. Bread Patties.—Cut off the tops of some small stale rolls, scoop out the insides, fill them with minced fish or chicken made hot in cream sauce and then cooled, trim the edges of the tops, replace them, arrange the patties on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a garnish of watercress. Bread Pudding' (Baked).—(1) Put into a saucepan J pint of sweet cream, 3oz. of powdered sugar, and the peel of half a medium-sized lemon; place the pan on the stove, stir with a spatula, boil for three minutes, and remove from the fire. Have lOoz. of stale Bread, pare off the crust, and cut it into small dice-shaped pieces; add these to the preparation, mixing lightly, put on the lid, and let the Bread soak for ten minutes. Chop up very fine loz. of candied citron, mix it with 4oz. each of dried currants, melted butter, and melted and strained beef-marrow, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, stirring thoroughly with the hand for two minutes. Pour this preparation in with the soaked Bread, and mix gently, either with the hand or a spatula, for ten minutes; mean- while breaking in three eggs, one by one, at a minute’s interval, and adding 1 gill of Madeira wine and J gill of cognac. Butter and sprinkle well with Breadcrumbs a 2qt. pudding-mould, pour in all the preparation, lay it on a baking-plate, and put it in a slow oven to bake for an-hour- and-a-half. Remove, and with the aid of a towel turn it on to a hot dish, serving it with Sabayon Sauce au Madere poured over. (2) Put in the oven any scraps or pieces of Bread, and let them bake there until they are a light brown; then take them out and roll them to a fine powder while they are hot. To every Jib. of crumbs add 1 teacupful of stoned raisins, sultanas, or currants, lqt. of milk, 1 teacupful of brown sugar or golden syrup, and Joz. of allspice. Pour J pint of boiling water over the crumbs, and let this stand for a short time until they are soft; then add all the other in- gredients and stir well together. Rub the sides and bottom of a largo pie-dish with butter or dripping, pour in the mixture, and put a little more butter or dripping on the top of it. Place it in the oven, and bake for about half-an- hour. (3) Take any stale pieces of Bread and soak them in cold water; squeeze them dry and break up or remove any lumps there may be ; then add an egg beaten up, sufficient sugar to sweeten, a little grated nutmeg, and about J pint of boiling milk to 1 pint of soaked Bread. Bake in a slow oven until it becomes firm. A few raisins added are an improvement. If the Bread is very light, such as Vienna rolls, it may be soaked in cold milk instead of cold water. When it is soft, add the flavouring sugar and eggs, and proceed as before. Sometimes minced candied orange- and lemon-peel are added. (4) Take equal proportions of Breadcrumbs and flour, about lib. each, and well mix together, adding 1 teaspoonful of ginger and a little salt and sugar; then add the yolks of four well-beaten eggs and the whites of two, with sufficient milk to make a batter, Jib. of stoned raisins, and Jib. of currants, beating all together. Pour the batter into a but- tered dish, and bake until done. (5) Put any stale pieces of Bread into a pan with suffi- cient water to cover them, let them stand for about an hour, and then squeeze them as dry as possible. To each pound of bread put an egg well beaten in J pint of boiling milk, loz. of finely-chopped suet, and sugar to taste. Grate a little nutmeg and lemon-peel into it, put in a dish rubbed well inside with butter or lard, and bake slowly for three- quarters-of-an-hour. / (C) Blanch and peel Jib. of almonds, put them in a mortar, Bread—continued. pound them, and mix with them the grated peel of one lemon, 2oz. of caster sugar, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Cut small French rolls into thin slices ; butter a pie-dish, cover the bottom with a layer of the slices, over these strew about half of the pounded almonds ; put in another layer of the slices, then the remainder of the almonds, and cover with more slices. Put a few small lumps of butter on the top. Beat six eggs, mix with them 1 pint of milk, and sweeten to taste with sugar; pour this over the Bread. Put the pudding into a moderate oven. When cooked, pass a knife between the sides of the pudding and the pie-dish to loosen it, turn it over into a hot dish, pour wine sauce over, and serve. Bread Pudding (Boiled).— (1) Boil 1 pint of milk, and pour it over J pint of Breadcrumbs; allow it to get cold, then add 2oz. of currants, three eggs well beaten, a little grated nutmeg and sugar to taste, and mix all well together. Butter a basin, pour in the mixture, tie a cloth over the top, and boil for an hour or an-hour-and-a-quarter. (2) Beat one egg up well, and add 2oz. each of warmed butter, flour, and Breadcrumbs, and 1 dessert-spoonful each of raspberry jam and orange marmalade. Beat all well to- gether, and then put in a small teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Pour this into a buttered basin or mould, tie down tightly, and steam in a large saucepan for an-hour- and-a-half. When done, turn it out of the basin or mould, and serve with custard, jam, or wine sauce. (3) Put Jib. of Breadcrumbs in a dish with only as much boiling milk as they will absorb. Beat up eggs in the proportion of one to every table-spoonful of crumbs, and mix all well together, with a little grated nutmeg to flavour. Butter a basin, pour in the mixture, and boil for about twenty minutes, or a little longer if the pudding is a good size. It may be baked also, fifteen or twenty minutes being sufficient for this, as it is only required to be of a light brown colour. Bread Pudding' with Cream Sauce. — Take a deep oval dish large enough to hold 3 pints. Pare off the crust of half a loaf of stale wheaten Bread, cut it into slices Jin. thick, butter them well with melted butter, and with them line the dish. Put in a basin Coz. of currants, two eggs, 1 pint of cold milk, and loz. of powdered loaf sug'ar, and grate in the rind of a medium-sized lemon, adding also its juice. Mix well together with a spatula for two minutes ; then pour it into the dish, and place it in a moderate oven to cook for thirty minutes. Take it from the oven, lay it on another dish, and serve very hot. Bread Pudding served with Pruit Sauce.—Moisten lib. of crumb of Bread cut into dice with a little warm milk; let it stand for ten minutes, and then take a small quan- tity at a time and squeeze it as dry as possible. Put it in a stewpan and beat up with a spoon ; then add ten yolks and six whites of eggs, Jib. of butter, Jib. of vanilla-flavoured sugar, fib. of currants, 1 pinch of salt, and 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of raw cream. Pour this into a well - buttered timbale-mould, put it on a trivet in a stewpan, and fill half-way up with water. Let the water boil first, then cover the stewpan, put it in the oven, and keep it boiling for an hour. When done, turn it out on a dish, and mask with cherry or other fruit sauce. Bread Salad. — Cut some slices of stale home-made Bread about Jin. thick, remove the crusts, and cut them into small squares or diamond-shaped pieces; put these into a bowl with 1 teacupful of salad-oil, and toss them about occasion- ally till the oil is absorbed; finely chop three hard-boiled eggs, three small pickled onions, and a small branch of pickled cauliflower; slice a boiled beetroot, and cut it into small diamond-shaped pieces. Mix all the above ingredients together, and season them well with pepper and salt. Turn the salad on to a flat dish, arrange a border of watercress round it, having first washed it and freed it from stalks pour a small quantity of vinegar over, and serve. This dish is an excellent relish when served with cold roast beef or mutton. Bread Sauce.— (1) Pour 1 pint of milk in which an onion has been boiled for ten minutes over Jib. of sifted Breadcrumbs ; add a small piece of butter (size of a walnut), 1 pinch of salt, and a sprinkle of cayenne pepper. Put this on the