TUE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 228 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. dissolved in the milk before beating in the eggs. Put the mixture into a shallow baking-tin or pan (see Pig. 250), and bake in a moderately hot oven. When quite done, remove from the tin, and spread icing over the top and bottom; then lay finely-grated cocoanut over before the top icing is dry. Add more icing and another layer of cocoanut, and again another layer of icing over if wished, and return to the oven to set (see Pig. 251). The icing is made by beating up the whites of three eggs, lib. of finely-powdered sugar, called “ icing sugar,” and the juice of a lemon. Angels’ Cake.—(1) Mix lib. of finely-powdered sugar with the whites of eight eggs, well beaten. Work Jib. of fresh butter into a cream, and mix with the sugar and eggs. Dissolve J tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda in J breakfast-cupful of new milk, and add this and lib. of flour (in which 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar has been stirred), in small quantities, to the former mixture, working in well with a fork. Flavour with lemon or vanilla added .to the milk; bake in a thin sheet, spread icing, as in Angels’ Bread, over the top and sides, and sprinkle over grated cocoanut. Return the Cake to the oven to set. (2) Take the whites of eleven eggs, 1J breakfast-cupfuls of granulated sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of pastry-flour (measured after being sifted four times), 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Sift the flour and cream of tartar together. Beat the whites to a stiff froth ; beat the sugar into the eggs, and add the flavouring and flour, stirring quickly and lightly. Beat until ready to put the mixture into the oven. Use a pan, if available, that has little legs at the top corners (see Fig. 252), so that when the pan is turned upside down, after the baking, a current of air may pass under and over it. Bake for forty minutes in a moderate oven. Do not grease the pan. Sugar icing, with or without grated cocoanut, may be used as in No. 1 at discretion. If a pan with top legs is not at hand, the corners may be supported by resting on four cotton-reels or bits of wood. (3) The addition of Jib. of sultana raisins, and some finely- sliced candied peel, adds to the richness of the Cake. (4) Mix with 1 breakfast-cupful of flour 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Beat up the whites of five eggs with 1 tea- cupful of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon flavouring, and stir in the flour lightly. Put in a small deep mould, not buttered, and bake in a slack oven about thirty minutes. When done, turn the mould upside down, and leave it to get cold before removing the Cake. Put icing over or dust with caster sugar. (5) Mix 14oz. of dry flour, 2oz. of cornflour, and 2 tea- spoonfuls of cream of tartar; sift them several times, and stir in lightly with a whisk 3 pints of white of eggs whipped to a froth, and 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla sugar or 2 teaspoonfuls of extract of lemon. Have Fig. 253. Angels’-cake Tin (Round) (Wilson Engineer- ing Co.). Cakes—continued. ready a mould (not greased) with a conical tube in the centre at least lin. higher than the sides of the mould, which should be loin, across at the bottom, 12in. at the top, and 5in. deep (see Fig. 253). Pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty-five minutes. Take it out, turn it upside down, and let it stand on the conical tube until cold. Turn it out by passing a knife round the rim, and serve. It may be iced if required. Anglo-French Stuffed Cake.—Boil 3oz. of ground rice in 1 pint of milk ; stir till the rice is done, then move it on one side. Pound Jib. of sweet almonds with loz. of bitter ones and 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and put them in the stew- pan ; cut finely Joz. of candied citron and soak it in a little maraschino, then put it in with the almonds and rice; beat five eggs, pour them in with the other ingredients, and stir all over the fire till thick. Make some puff paste, divide it into unequal pieces, and roll both out, one being larger and thicker than the other. Pile the mixture in the centre of the smaller paste, wet the rims, and lay the larger over, pinching and notching the edges, and bake in a moderate oven; dust over with caster sugar, glaze with a salamander, and when cold cut into strips or fingers, and serve on a napkin spread on a dish. Ash Cake.—Put lib. or so of cornflour into a basin, sprinkle in a little salt, and add sufficient water to make it into a stiff dough. Let it remain for half-an-hour or so, then form it into a Cake from lin. to 2in. in thickness, put it on the hearth, cover it over with wood ashes, and bake for from thirty to forty-five minutes ; wijie it clean when done, and it is ready for use. The alkaline properties left by the ashes in the crust make it especially good for dyspeptics with an acid stomach. Athole Cakes.—Put into a basin Jib. of cornflour, 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 large teaspoonful of baking- powder, the grated rind of one lemon, and a small piece of candied peel finely shredded. Stir in Jib. of butter, warmed and beaten to a cream, and two well-beaten eggs. Mix all well together, and put into buttered small patty-pans a piece of the size of a fowl’s egg. Bake for five or six minutes in a hot oven. Aurelian Cake.—Mix together Jib. of caster sugar and Jib. of ground rice. Whisk the yolks of twelve and the whites of seven eggs together and add to the rice, with a wine- glassful of brandy. Flavour with essence of almonds. Beat all together for about twenty minutes, pour into a buttered mould, and bake until done in a hot oven. A table-spoonful of thin slices of candied orange-peel improves the Cake very much. Bairn Brack Cake.—Put Jib. of fresh butter into a saucepan with J pint of milk, and place it over the fire until hot and melted, then move the pan to the side and let it cool a little. Put into a basin 1 Jib. of dried flour, Jib. of brown sugar, 1 table- spoonful of caraway-seeds, 1J table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; mix these ingredients well, and beat in the butter and milk and four well-beaten eggs. Work the dough well, taking care that it is not too stiff; cover it with a cloth, and place it near the fire until well risen. Butter the interior of a Cake-tin, put the doug'h in it, and bake. When cooked, the Cako may be either cut into slices and served hot with butter, or left until cold and toasted before serving. Bakestone Cakes.—Sift lib. of flour on to a board, rub in a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, and add sufficient cream to moisten it and make it of the required con- sistency. Roll out the paste, cut it into Cakes, put them on a griddle over a clear fire, and cook slowly until done, which will take about forty-five minutes. Take them off when done and they are ready for use. A few currants may be used with the flour, if desired. Balloon or Prussian Cakes.—Prepare about 21b. of dough, such as is used for making currant buns, flatten it, put it into a buttered tin, and let the dough prove or rise. When it has about half proved, divide into eight equal parts, let it finish proving, then brush over the surface with well- beaten egg, sprinkle over caster sugar, damp this with a very little water, and bake in a slack oven, so that the icing will not be too much coloured.