75 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, J c., referred to, see under their special heads. Barbel—continued. is greenish-brown, becoming yellowish-green on the sides, the belly white, the fins are red, and the tail is of a deep purple colour. As a food, the Barbel is not considered a delicacy, although it is said that the flesh is much improved by keeping in water for a few days before cooking. At Fig. 80. Barrel. any time the flesh is coarse and woolly, and the roe is found to be violently cathartic. There are, however, a few receipts given for its preparation which may be appreciated by the hardy; but, as a rule, high-class cooks omit this fish from their list of good things. Baked Barbel.—Put into a fish-kettle enough water, with a little vinegar, to cover the fish; add some fennel, and a good quantity of salt. When the water boils, put in the fish, thoroughly scraped, washed, and cleaned, and boil slowly. When done, drain for one hour, remove the fish from the kettle, put it into a pie-dish with plenty of butter and minced parsley, and bake in an oven for one hour. Serve very hot. Baked Barbel served with. Parmesan Cheese.—Bcmove the skin and bones, if any, from pieces of cooked Barbel, break them up small, and warm in a saucepan with a little thick bechamel sauce. Turn the mixture out on to a tin or dish, smooth over the surface, sprinkle it over first with breadcrumbs and then with grated Parmesan cheese, put it in the oven to brown, or brown it with a salamander, and serve. This is a vei-y good way of using up any pieces of the fish left over from dinner. Baked Barbel in Spanish Style.—Mr. C. Willin strongly recommends the following receipt: Clean the fish by taking out the inside gills and scaling; dust the inside with salt and cayenne mixed, laying the salt and pepper deeply along the backbone, add the juice of a lemon, and lay the fish on its back while preparing the following stuffing : Take a few champignons, a small piece of lean ham, a piece of garlic about the size of a coriander-seed, a good bunch of parsley, and chop all very fine. Place sufficient butter and flour in a stewpan to form a roux, with just a little cayenne, nut- meg, and salt, and mix with enough boiling milk to form a stiff paste that will not adhere to either spoon or sides of the pan; then add tho abovo chopped mixture of ham, parsley, &c.; stir well over a dull fire for five minutes, add the yolks of two eggs, and stuff tho inside of the fish, having previously rinsed out the pepper and salt with a little white wine vinegar. Tho above stuffing must be made in quantity according to tho sizo of the fish being prepared. Envelope tho fish in a well-buttered paper, taking care to turn in the edge of the paper so as to make it as air-tight as possible, and bake in a medium heat till quite done. Serve with tho following sauce : Chop an onion very fine and saute in butter till a light brown colour; add a finely- shredded red capsicum or chilli pepper, a little salt, a small clove of chopped garlic, a small quantity of sugar, and 1 tin of American cooked tomatoes; boil till reduced one- fourth, keeping it constantly stirred to prevent burning. Pour a little around the fish on going to table, and also serve some in a sauceboat. A few browned breadcrumbs shaken over tho fish improves the appearance. Barbel Boiled in Court-bouillon.—Clean and wash a good-sized Barbel, not scaling it, put it into a shallow dish, Barbel— continued. pour over boiling vinegar, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and let it soak for an hour or so. In the meantime, pour a little wine into a saucepan, and add a seasoning of onions, lemon-peel, sweet herbs, laurel leaves, cloves, salt, and pepper. Set it to boil, and put in the fish. Boil the fish in this until it is quito tender, then take it out, scale it, drain off all the liquor, put it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a good sharp or other sauce. A little water- cress should bo served as a garnish. Broiled Barbel.—Scale, wash, and remove the gills, by making as small a hole as possible, so as not to interfere with the appearance of the fish ; slit it up through tho belly, score it six or eight times, according to tho size of tho fish, across the back, and having spread it open on skewers broil it over a clear fire, turning frequently, and basting with butter, plenty of salt, and a little powdered thyme rubbed up with the salt. Broiled Barbel a, la Maitre d’Hotel.—Take two Barbel weighing as nearly lib. each as possible, if you can get them. Scrape off the scales, remove the gills and fins, and make them as clean as possible. Score them across tho back and down both sides as shown in Fig. 81. Put them on a largo Fig. 81. Scored Barrel. dish to steep for an hour, with 1 tcacupful of oil poured over, after sprinkling freely with salt and pepper. Broil them for a few minutes over a clear fire, and turn, until done, and serve on a hot dish with maitre-d’hotcl butter. Matelote of Barbel and Eel.—This mode of preparing Barbel is about the best that has been noticod. Take an eel weighing about 1 j 1 b., skin and clean it, and steep it in boiling water for two or three minutes, and then you can rub off with a cloth the second skin of tho eel, which is ex- ceedingly indigestible. Steep the eel until it does come off. Trim off tho fins, and chop into lengths of about 2in. Scrape, and clean a Barbel of about 1 jib., or thereabouts (selecting the two fish of about equal weights), and cut it into pieces about 2in. wide. Put into a large stewpan 2oz. of butter and twenty small round onions, nicely peeled and scalded. Fry tho onions in the butter until they are coloured, and then dredge in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Stir for ten minutes, and add lqt. of red wine, '2 pinches of salt, 2 small pinches of pepper, 1 double bunch of herbs, and a whole clove of garlic. Simmer for ten minutes, keeping the stewpan closely covered. Put in tho pieces of eel, and boil gently for a quarter-of-an-hour; then add tho pieces of Barbel and \ gill of brandy, and simmer for ten minutes more. Season to taste, remove the herbs and garlic, put tho fish on a dish, and pour over the onions and sauce. Boasted Barbel.—Scrape off the scales, wash, and remove the gills, by making as small a hole as possible, so as not to interfere with the appearance of the fish; stuff tbo interior with sweet herbs—such as rosemary, thyme, marjoram, parsley, and winter savory, chopped vei’y fine. Boast beforo a quick fire, basting frequently with vinegar and butter, and plenty of salt. Stewed Barbel.—Scale and clean a Barbel, wash it well, put it into a saucepan with sufficient red wine to moisten it, and add a seasoning of salt, black pepper, two cloves, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and a good lump of butter. Put the saucepan on the fire, and boil until the fish is clone. Take it out, put it on a dish, and pour over tho liquor, thickened with butter and flour and strained, and servo very hot. BARBERA.-Tlie name of a famous class of Italian wines, made in the Piedmont district.