22 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, <fce., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Angel-Fish—continued. is found occasionally along the British and French coasts, and the southern coast of the United States, and commonly in the West Indies. Its flesh is declared by some to be “ very savoury wherefore, as it is caught varying from 6ft. to 8ft. long, it should be a valuable article of food. Naturalists have described the Angel-fish (Fig. 25) as a cross between the shark and the skate, which would suggest that the quality of the flesh also varies between that of the shark and that of the skate—and this would not recommend it to the epicure as likely to make a prime dish. There are, however, several varieties of it, some of which are found superior to others for culinary purposes ; but these are so rarely met with that no special culinary treatment of them has as yet been described. ANGELICA (Fr. Angelique; Ger. Angelika, Angelica- wurzel, Angel-Kraut).—An aromatic herb (Angelica Arch- angelica) which grows wild in this and other countries (rarely in this). It is cultivated on the Continent for the purpose (when candied) of flavouring and ornamenting confectionery, and for dessert. It may be seen in any large confectionery establishment, neatly tied into bundles with coloured ribbon. Angelica was at one time eaten like celery, raw and stewed. Herbalists have attached so many virtues to this herb, especially that of driving away pesti- lence, that the common name for it in rural districts is “ Holy Ghost.” Candies, compotes, jellies, &c., are made or flavoured with Angelica. Angelica may be preserved in syrup, candied, and used in a number of ways. The Americans put it into punch. Angelica Confits.—Cut up some candied Angelica into little diamond shapes or tiny strips. Put these into a small, shallow preserving-pan, fitted with a long handle, strewing them thinly and evenly over the bottom of it; set it over a very slow heat, and let it warm thoroughly. Make a syrup with 21b. of sugar to 1 pint of water in which loz. of pow- dered gum arabic has been previously dissolved, and when the pan and Angelica are quite hot, but not burning, pour some of the syrup loosely over the Angelica and shake freely till it dries on. Six or eight coatings must be given in this way, shaking the pan continually during the whole time it remains over the fire, and bearing in mind that the confits must he turned out of the pan upon a baking-sheet to be dried after every charge of syrup, the pan being cleaned on each occasion. Finally, when sufficiently coated, dry upon a sieve at a little distance from the fire, or in a screen. If desired, the syrup may be flavoured, or coloured. Angelica Punch.—Stone and chop Jib. of raisins; put them into a basin with the grated rind of half a lemon, the strained juice of a whole one, and 1 pint of boiling water; stir in ilb. of sugar till dissolved. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, rubbing the raisin pulp through at the same time. Pour it into a freezer, add 1 pint of Angelica wine, and work it till frozen. When nearly frozen, add the whites of two eggs that have been whipped till thick with 2 tablespoonfuls of caster sugar. When quite frozen, the punch will have the appearance of cream; it is then ready for serving. Angelica—continued. Angelica Ratafia.—Macerate for ten days in a large stone jar 1 drachm of bruised Angelica seed (bruised in a stone mortar), Jib. of sliced fresh or dried Angelica stalk, loz. of bruised bitter almonds (blanched), and 6qts. of proof spirit, or brandy. When ready, filter off the liquor and stir into it lqt. of syrup (21b. to the pint). Let this stand for two or three weeks, then strain it through a sieve, and bottle for use. Compote of Green Angelica.—Take sufficient preserved green Angelica, and arrange the sticks crosswise on a glass dish; pour over all some of its own syrup, slightly flavoured with orange. The stalks may be cut into rings. Dried. Angelica.—Prepare the Angelica as for preserving, and then cut the stalks into short strips, lozenges, or large and small rings ; give them two or three more boilings in the syrup (see Preserved Green Angelica) ; drain, give them a roll in finely-powdered sugar, dry thoroughly in a screen, and pack away in tins for future use. Preserved Angelica with Jellies.—Select a few broad, hollow stalks or reeds of green preserved Angelica, cut them in slanting or transverse slices lin. wide, fill up the hollows with apple or currant jelly, or any other stiff preserve, dip them in caster sugar, and place them on a sieve in the screen to dry slowly for an hour. Serve in a glass dish, or use to garnish sweet entremets, such as jellies, creams, and blancmangers. Preserved Green Angelica.—Let the Angelica selected be as fresh, young, crisp, and tender as can be got. Cut the tubes or stalks into 6in. lengths, and wash them clean ; boil them in water for ten minutes, and then, having drained them, boil in syrup for half-an-hour, and set aside to cool, leaving in the syrup. Preserve in jars or wide-mouthed bottles. Francatelli advises a very elaborate process : First scald the sticks in boiling water for three or four minutes, and then “ refresh ” them in cold water; drain them upon a sieve, and then parboil them in water (without allowing it to come to the boil) for ten minutes ; once again drain, and throw them into cold water ; drain again, and put them with sufficient syrup at 22deg. (see Syrups) to make them swim in a copper preserving-pan. Set them on the fire till the syrup begins to simmer; then remove to a cool place, leaving them in the pan with the syrup, the surface being covered over with vine-leaves, and leave thus until the following day. The Angelica sticks are next to he drained on a sieve, the vine-leaves thrown away, \ pint of water added to the syrup, the pan scoured out, the syrup replaced in it, boiled up once and well skimmed, the Angelica to be added, and covered afresh with vine-leaves, and set aside till the next day This process must be repeated twice more—in all, four different charges to be given four days running; at the end of this time the Angelica will be perfectly green and tender. ANGELS’ BREAD.—This is a very popular variety of Cocoanut Cake. See Cakes. ANGELS’ CAKE.—This resembles in many respects the cake described as Angels’ Bread; but as it is known to confectioners under a specific name, it is considered advisable to distinguish one from the other. See Cakes. ANGELS ON HORSEBACK (Fr. Anges au Cheval).—The origin of this unique term is of quite modern birth, it being originally applied, we believe, to oysters on steak. So many fanciful variations have ensued from the inventive genius of our cooks, who evidently have been taken with the name, that the term may now be considered to represent a class of dishes. (1) Select a few dozen large oysters, open them, and remove their beards and the hard part; put them on a plate, and season with salt and pepper. Blanch a piece of bacon, and when cold cut it into thin strips, and then into squares, each about the diameter of an oyster. Take the oysters one by one, and pile them on little silver or electro-plated skewers (see Aiguillettes), alternating each of the oysters with a square of bacon, until six of each are on a skewer. Sprinkle over these a little breadcrumb mixed with chopped parsley; or egg and breadcrumb in the usual way. Broil at a brisk fire for three minutes only, and dish, placing the skewers on little croutons fried in butter, and kept very hot. (2) Beard two dozen oysters (large ones do for cooking), and set them on one side. Next cut some bread about lin.