180 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Bread—continued. tlie Brick, Coburg, Tinned, Cottage, &c., some of which, it is to be feared, were originated in order to bring loaves of ordinary dough under the denomination of Fancy Bread, and thus avert the penalties that are due to loaves Fig. 189. New Six-sided Bread- tin (Mathews and Son). Fig. 190. New-shaped Bread- tin (Mathews and Son). “ under weight.” In Figs. 189 and 190 are seen two new shapes for tinned loaves. In the manufacture of “ penny ” and “twopenny” loaves, rolls, twists, and other “petits pains,” the baker has ample scope for treating his customers very much to their disadvantage—an oppor- tunity of which some bakers are only too ready to avail themselves. See also Alum, Baking, Flouk, Yeast, &c. Should loaves or rolls “ catch ” in the baking, and present a hard, black, burnt crust, as they sometimes will do in spite of every care and precaution, the worst of the black can be removed by means of a rasp made for the pur- pose (see Fig. 191). Housekeepers are very apt to spoil their Bread by the unsuitable places and conditions chosen for its storing, fig. 191. Bread Rasp A warm cupboard and a damp pantry (Mathews and Son), are both ecpially bad; the former causing the Bread to become stale and hard, and the latter making it soft and mildewy. The best plan is to store it away in a large earthenware crock fitted with a lid. But here again a great trouble is liable to arise from putting hot Bread into a crock without any way of escape for the dampness generated by the steaming loaves. Fig. 192. Bread-crock with Ventilated Lid (Keen’s Principle). Bread—continued. Stale Bread may be made quite soft and fresh again by dipping the loaf into a bowl of water, leaving it to soak for a couple of minutes, not longer, and then putting it into a slow oven for an hour. The following receipts will be found to give all the instructions that are necessary for the manufacture of Bread, providing at the same time a very large assort- ment, and all within the range of family culinary facilities. American Bread.—Put in an earthen vessel, wider at top than bottom, ljlb. of flour and \ pint of fresh brewers’ yeast, and mix with it 1 pint of lukewarm water; then set it away for three or four hours till it rises and falls again (if winter, it should be kept in a warm temperature). Put 2 table-spoonfuls of salt in 2qts. of water, mix well with the above, add about 91b. of flour, work together, leave it until light, and then shape it into loaves. In the spring and fall of the year, the water should be lukewarm ; in hot weather, cold; in winter, warm. Put it in a hot oven at first, allow- ing it to cool afterwards. If the loaves are large, bake a little more than one hour. American Brown Bread.— (1) Mix together 2 breakfast- cupfuls of flour and 1 breakfast-cupful each of cornflour, rye-meal, and molasses. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a little boiling water, add that and the milk to the molasses, beat it up with the other ingredients, and add a well-beaten egg. Mix thoroughly, pour into a buttered tin that holds 2qts., let it steam in a slow oven for four hours, and then let it bake in a quick oven for half-an-hour. (2) Put lqt. of cornflour in a Bread-pan, sprinkle a little salt over it, and wet it with scalding water. When cool, put in iqt. of rye-meal, add J pint of fresh yeast, and mix with water as stiff as can be kneaded. If summer, stand for an-hour-and-a-half in a cool place; if winter, in a warm one. Bake in an oven for three hours. (3) Put 1 pint of yellow corn-meal into a mixing-bowl, and add sufficient boiling water to wet it; let it stand ten minutes, and then make a soft batter by adding colder water. Whilst it is warm, add 1 teacupful of yeast, 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teacupful of molasses or treacle, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 pint of rye-meal. Beat well together, and put it to rise until it breaks open ; then stir it down, and put it in a tin (buttered and floured) to rise again. Sprinkle a little flour on the top, and bake for two hours in a moderate oven. American Premium Bread.—Make a stiff dough of 5qts- of flour, I pinch of salt, and \ pint of yeast mixed with warm milk. Knead and put in a warm place to rise. Knead again thoroughly, and stand it in the pan covered over for twenty or thirty minutes for a second rising. Make into loaves, and bake. American Thirded Bread. — Mix 8oz. each of flour, rye- flour, and yellow corn-meal with sufficient milk (that has been scalded and cooled) to make it thick enough to be shaped; then add 1 teacupful of yeast, 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Let this rise until it cracks open, when stir it down, and put it into an earthenware pan (see Pig. 193, b) to rise again. When well risen, bake it for an hour. A B Fig. 193. Pans for Brown Bread. a, Iron; n, Earthenware. The illustration (Fig. 192) shows a Bread-crock with a ventilator fitted into the centre of the lid, and experience has shown that this is a consideration worthy of special attention. Black Bread.—Kub 101b. of brewers’ grains to a paste, and work into it lib. of fresh yeast, 51b. of coarse flour, and 1 hand- ful of salt. Let it rise, then, when twice its original bulk, shape into loaves and bake. A favourite in Germany, Russia, and other countries.