105 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Beef—continued. dish, and surround them with two dozen blanched oysters. Pour on the bottom of the dish a little cold gravy, finish the pie with a good crust, and hake it lightly for an-hour- and-a-quarter. Beef-steak Pot.—Mince 21b. or 31b. of tough Beef-steak, season with salt and pepper, put it into an earthenware jar with a few cloves and a slice of fat bacon, and pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water mixed with vinegar. Put the lid on the jar, place it in a slow oven, and bake for about three hours. Take out the meat when done, put it on a dish, mix 1 table-spoonful of walnut ketchup with the gravy, pour it over the meat, and serve. Beef-steak Pudding'.—The same instructions that have been given for making Beef-steak pies will serve for puddings also, the difference being in the make of the crust and the mode of cooking. In good cooking the crust may be made as follows: Spread over the tabl& or slab lib. of flour in a circle, in the centre of which put Jib. of finely-chopped Beef-suet (kidney, for preference), a little salt, 1 teacupful of cold water, and mix well together. Gather up the paste, without working much, and having allowed it to rest for a few minutes, roll it out, and line a basin or dome-shaped mould. For an ordinary economical pudding almost any scraps of juicy Beef will do, especially of that part which is commonly known as “Beef-skirt.” The pieces should be trimmed of all skin, string, and other hard things, and cut small: bits of raw kidney or liver, or of any other meat, may be added if handy; an onion, partly boiled and chopped small, should be mixed with the pieces, and the pudding-basin, lined with pastry, filled with it. Season freely with pepper and salt, and add 1 teacupful of water or thin stock. Wet round the edges of the paste trimmed on the edge of the basin, lay a sheet of paste over, and set firmly together. Cover over with a cloth dipped in scalding water, tie round the rim with string, and having pulled the cloth tight pin the corners together over the top. Boil for about two hours, according to the size of the pudding. Lift from the saucepan by the corners of the cloth; remove the cloth, and let the pudding stand for two or three minutes before turning out. By this rest the pudding cools a little, and the pressure of steam from within subsides; and then by running a thin knife round the edge between the pudding and the basin, it can be turned out readily, if the basin or mould has been greased before using. , To Make a Pudding foe Boiling in a Cloth without a Basin.—This is not recommended except for farmhouses and such places, or when the pudding paste is required to pre- dominate over the meat. Boll the crust thick, scald a cloth and lay it in a basin, lino this with the whole sheet of paste, put in the meat as before, and draw the crust over, wetting and pinching well together in the centre. Tie up the cloth tightly, and put into boiling water to cook. The time taken will be quite as long as when a basin is used, if not longer. Beef-steak Pudding with Oysters.—Cut up 111b. of tender Beef-steak into small fillets, and season them with salt and pepper. Chop up an onion, and slightly fry it with butter in a flat stewpan; add to it the Beef-steaks, which warm quickly on both sides to “ set,” and place them on a dish. Sprinkle | table-spoonful of flour into the stewpan in which the Beef-steaks have been fried, fry this flour for a few seconds, stirring it, and then moisten it with 1 teacupful of gravy and 1 glass of wine, and pour it over the Beef-steaks. Eight or ten minutes later, fill in the hollow of a lined bowl or mould, alternating the layers with two or three dozen raw oysters, and pour over each a little of the sauce. The mould being full to its height, fold the paste over on the centre, and cover it with a round flat of the same paste, thus enclosing the mould completely. Butter and flour the centre of a damp napkin, put it over the pudding, and fasten it tightly below the mould with string as for Batter Pudding (see Fig. 94). Plunge the pudding into boiling water, and let it boil quickly for an-hour-and-a-half. Afterwards drain the mould, dip it into cold water, remove the napkin, and turn the pudding out on a dish. Garnish round with potato- croquettes. Beef-steak, Spanish (as in Mexico).—The receipt for this exceedingly delicious mode of cooking a steak was contributed Beef—continued. by an old Kentuckian who has practised the same for many years, and who declares that whether tough or tender before cooking, there is no dish equal to it after. Any cut of Beef will do, but a thick slice from the round is best. Put sufficient water into a frying-pan to three-parts cover the steak, and let it cook over a steady fire, turning once only. As the water boils away add 1 table-spoonful of dripping, and some green peppers and sliced onions. When the water has all disappeared, leaving nothing but the fat to cook the steak in, turn the meat once more and add 2 table-spoonfuls of stewed tomatoes for each person. Heat up thoroughly and serve. A little salt dusted over and about the steak in the first instance, and a dust or so over the peppers, onions, and stewed tomatoes adds much to the savouriness. Beef-tea.— (1) Take lib. or more of lean rump of Beef, remove every particle of fat, cut the meat into small pieces, put them into a champagne bottle, cork, and tie down tightly. Place the bottle in a deep saucepan with cold water to reach two-thirds of the way up the bottle, place the pan on a slow fire, and lot it come slowly to the boil. After boiling for fifteen minutes take out the bottle, pour out the liquor, which will be about 2 table-spoonfuls, and use as required. (2) Mince lib. of lean Beef, put it into a porcelain bowl with sufficient cold water to cover it, and let it macerate for three or four hours. Turn all into a saucepan, bring it slowly to the boil, skimming frequently, strain off the liquor, season with pepper and salt, and serve. If desired, rice and chopped onions may be cooked with it. (3) Take a rump-steak about l|in. thick and without fat, cut it into pieces about the size of the palm of the hand, place them on a wire double broiler, and make them hot through and through. Put each piece separately into a lemon squeezer, squeeze out all the juice, make it hot, and serve as required. (4) Cut up lib. of lean Beef and pound it well; then put it into a stewpan with Iqt. of cold water, and boil for twenty minutes, removing any scum that rises. Strain it, and let it get cold. Cut lib. of tender rump-steak into thin slices, spread them over a deep dish, sprinkle with salt, and pour over the slices I pint of boiling water. Cover the dish, place it in a very slow oven for half-an-hour, add this to the previous broth, boil for fifteen minutes, and strain for use. (5) Cut up the Beef finely, put it into a jar with a little salt sprinkled over it, and set in a slow oven to draw out the juice. As this accumulates at the bottom of the jar, pour it off into a small vessel, and preserve for use. Continue this for twenty minutes, and when all the juice has been collected, pour over the meat 1 pint of water, let it cook in the oven or boil in a stewpan for an hour or so, and pour off or strain to serve, adding the juice pre- viously obtained. In this way it is contended that much more nourishment is drawn from the meat. (6) Cut into strips lib. of juicy steak, quite free from fat and sinew, and scrape it with a sharp knife ; or mince up the meat and bruise it thoroughly in a mortar, a little at a time. Put it into a jar with a piece of salt as it is pounded, and pour over it 1 pint of cold water. Let it stand for about an hour, then put it into a stewpan, and boil up. Strain and serve; or the meat may be taken with the tea. (7) Cut some lean Beef into small pieces, put it into a stone jar, stand a plate on the top, and put it into a moderate oven for four hours. Drain all the gravy off the Beef, and keep it in a cool place. When ready to serve, mix boiling water with the gravy, thinning it to the strength required. (8) Cut lib. of gravy Beef into small pieces, and soak it in 1 pint of water into which 5 drops of muriatic acid and 1 pinch of salt have been stirred. When the gravy of the Beef has been extracted, strain it through muslin, and serve it. (9) Mince lib. of gravy Beef, removing at the same time all fat; put it into a saucepan with f pint of cold water, press it with a spoon till on the point of boiling, add 1 saltspoonful of salt, and let it simmer gently for a-quarter- of-an-hour. Drain the gravy off the Beef, and servo it with dry toast.