TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 239 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—co nt inued. this out until it is smooth, and put it on a buttered griddle. Turn it often to prevent it from burning, and cook both sides equally brown. Serve hot, split and buttered. Guernsey Cake.—Work Goz. of butter into 4oz. of flour and 2oz. of ground rice ; add 1 pinch of salt, Jib. of finely-sifted crushed loaf sugar, loz. of mixed candied peel, chopped fine, 2oz. of dried cherries, and loz. of angelica, chopped small. Mix these thoroughly, and then add the yolks of four well- beaten eggs, four drops of almond essence, and 1 table-spoonful of brandy. Line a tin with buttered paper, cutting a round for the bottom, and lastly add the whites of two eggs, whisked to a stiff froth. Beat all together for a few minutes, pour into the tin, and bake in a quick oven for forty minutes. Hard Cakes.—Sift Jib. of flour on a paste-board, make a bay in the centre, in which put 3oz. of butter, 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, two well-beaten eggs, and a few drops of any kind of essence. Work the flour in gradually, then knead the whole thoroughly. Dredge a little flour over a paste-board, and roll the paste out to about Jin. in thickness. Cut the paste out with fancy-shaped tin cutters, and with a wooden skewer draw a scroll, or any other fancy design on each; lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, beat the white of an egg with a tea- spoonful of caster sugar, brush the Cakes over with it, using a paste-brush for the purpose, and bake them in a good oven. Serve the Cakes when cold. Harlequin Cake.—Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, lib. of sugar, three eggs, J pint of milk, Jib. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Beat them thoroughly together, and divide the dough in quarters. Colour one of the quarters with unsweetened chocolate and another with pink colouring, and bake each part separately; when done, place first a light Cake, then the chocolate, then another light Cake, and lastly the pink. Spread lemon jelly over each layer, and cover with white icing. The lemon jelly is made by well beating an egg and adding £ pint of water and the juice and grated rind of a lemon. Pour this slowly over lib. of sugar mixed with 2 table- spoonfuls of flour. Cook in a double boiler until smooth and like cream. This is a very effective Cake for five o’clock tea. Havre Cake. — This Cake is made of a cussy Cake paste baked in a low, broad cylinder-mould with six sides. When the Cake is perfectly cool, mask it with a layer, of apricot marmalade, and over that spread lightly sugar icing. Before the icing gets dry, decorate the sides with angelica cut into r, ,C'T\ ■ j A A shapes. Place the Cake on a dish, arrange a little chopped jelly round the base, and just before serving fill the cavity with piled up. almond paste flavoured with vanilla, and this again should have a circle of scalded candied cherries round its base with angelica points (see Fig. 27G). Heart Cakes.—See Queen Cakes. Heavy Cakes.—Sift lib. of flour on a paste-board, make a bay in the centre of it, and put in 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 table- spoonful of sugar, and lib. of butter; work the above ingredients until the butter is well incorporated with the flour, then mix in gradually the beaten yolks of four eggs and 2 pint of cream. Knead thoroughly, dust.flour over the paste- Cakes—continued. board, and roll the paste out; fold the paste in four, and roll it out again, repeating this operation four times. Butter a tin, put the Cake in it, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, take the Cake out of the tin and let it get cold before serving. Heloise Cake.—(1) An oval-shaped flat mould, about lOin. by Sin. in diameter, is required for this Cake ; pack this mould in ice while lqt. of cream is whipped very stiff; mix with the cream a little caster sugar and 2 wineglassfuls of noyeau. Put it in a freezer, and when three-parts frozen, lino the mould (in the interior of which a sheet of white paper has been set round) with a layer of the cream, about lin. thick. Make a custard with the yolks of eight eggs, and mix with it 1 teaspoonful of gelatine; stir it over ice till rather thick, then mix with it 2 wineglassfuls of noyeau, 4 pint of whipped cream, and 11b. of cherries; they should bo well dried before being mixed with the custard, as it is desirable to keep the custard as white as possible. Pour it in the centre of the cream, and stand the mould in ice again till wanted. Make a custard with the yolks of four eggs. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it round, and turn out the gateau on to an oval dish; stick a few preserved cherries here and there, pour the custard over, and serve at once. (2) Take lib. of sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar grated on the rind of oranges, and 1 pinch of salt. Beat up the yolks of twelve eggs, and add 2oz. of potato-flour ; pass this through a sieve, and also the whisked whites of twelve eggs. Great care must be taken not to let the paste be lumpy. Put the paste into a very dry timbale mould; warm it, and butter whilst hot. Drain the mould thoroughly of fat, and then dust with sugar, mixed with an equal quantity of potato-flour. .Fill the mould up to three-quarters its height, and draw the paste up to the brim with a spoon. Put it on a baking- sheet, and bake for an hour. When done, turn it out. Put the yolks of ten eggs and 3oz. of sugar into a stewpan, and add Jib. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Place it over a moderate fire until it thickens like cream, stirring constantly, but do not let it boil. Trim the Cake straight, and cut it transversely into very thin slices ; mask each of the slices with the cream, and replace them in their original order. When done, put the Cake on a stand and mask all over with raw orange-icing- sugar. Serve on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, and garnish with crystallised greengages or apricots. Hermits.—Take 1 pint of raisins (stone them and chop them fine), the same quantity of sugar, J breakfast-cupful of butter, three eggs, J teaspoonful of bic .r-bonate of soda dissolved in 3 table-spoonfuls of milk, one grated nutmeg, 6 breakfast- cupfuls of flour, and 1 teaspoonful each of cloves and cinna- mon, and work into a paste. Boll it out to about lin. in thickness, and cut it with a round biscuit-cutter (see Fig. 277). Bake for about twelve minutes in a quick oven. Hoe Cake.—Put J pint of white cornmeal, J teaspoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar (if fancied) into a basin. Mix all well together, and add sufficient boiling milk or water to scald it. It should be of such a consistency that when put on the griddle it will not spread. Grease the griddle with bacon-fat, and drop the mixture from a spoon on to it. Flatten the Cakes until they are about Jin. in thickness; cook them slowly, but do not let them burn, and when of a nice brown colour, put a piece of butter on the top of each, and turn over. It can also be served in the following way: Make the dough into one large Cake, and when brown underneath, turn it over on to another part of the greased griddle; peel off the thin