THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 136 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Bilberries—continued. five minutes, stir into the beaten eggs 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar and 1 pint of milk, then add the berries and the flour, mixing all the ingredients lightly and quickly. The mixture should form a stiff batter; if more flour is needed, add it. Fry the cakes, by the table-spoonful, in smoking- hot fat, or fry them in a hot frying-pan with just enough fat to prevent them sticking to the pan. Use them, buttered, for tea or luncheon. BIIiLS OP FARE.—This plain English term has of late years, when applied to viands and the order of serving them, given place to ‘the more stylish “ Menu,” and is now generally used to indicate tariffs of hotel charges, including beds, breakfasts, dinners, and at- tendance. See Menus. BIRCH BEER.'—The bark of the black Birch (Betula lenta) is sometimes used for manufacturing a beer for which in country districts numerous medicinal qualities are claimed. Whether its virtues are over-estimated or not depends principally upon the opinion of those who profess to hold it in high favour. But to the un- prejudiced it is probably inferior to any other beverage, whether medicinal or merely refreshing. It may be pre- pared as follows: Make a liquid extract of the bark by boiling lib. of it in a gallon of water, straining and reducing the liquor rapidly until the residue is as thick as treacle. Next boil 2 large handfuls of hops and |lb. each of pimento and ginger in 3galls. of water for a quarter-of-an-hour. Strain this, and dissolve in the liquor the Birch extract. Boil up, and stir in 6qts. of golden syrup. Put this into a cask and add 20galls. of water, and when this is cool add 1 pint of fresh yeast or 4oz. of German yeast dissolved in 1 pint of warm water. In a short time the beer will show signs of fermenting; let this go on for two days, leaving the bung out, and the bung-hole tightly covered with a piece of stout cloth. When the fermentation begins to flag, draw off the beer into bottles, passing it first through a strainer composed of several thicknesses of flannel, cork down securely (see Bottling), and store in a cool place. As only a little of this beer is usually drunk at a time, the smaller-sized bottles are best. BIRDS’-NEST SOUP.—Although this is almost exclusively a Chinese dish, it is not altogether unknown in this country, the nests being imported in small quan- tities, and commanding enormous prices: the best white or clean sort fetch sometimes as much as £5 10s. per pound of about fifty. They are of a peculiar gelatinous con- struction, but contain no other special qualities of flavour, requiring the addition of fowls’ flesh and seasoning to render them palatable. One nest will make 1 pint of soup. It is first well washed in cold water, and then cooked in a bain-marie for eight hours; a fowl is then boned, and the flesh beaten to extract the juice, which is then added to the nest with seasoning, and boiled up for a quarter-of-an-hour. BISCOSCHA.—This dish is attributed to Arabia, but appears to be most in vogue amongst the Turks. It appa- rently owes its origin to the Spanish bizcocho (biscuit). Put twelve eggs and lib. of finely-sifted crushed loaf sugar into a deep round-bottomed bowl or pan, and beat them vigorously with a wire whisk for fully half-an-hour, by which time the contents should be about double or treble the original volume. Add gradually a flavouring of vanilla and fib. of cornflour or other starch, and stir very gently and only suffi- ciently to mix them. Put the mixture into an oiled or buttered deep turban-shaped mould, set it in a moderate oven, and bake for half-an-hour. Turn it out when done, and it is ready for use. BISCOTIN(S).—French for small crisp biscuits of various kinds, usually served with ices, creams, wine, coffee, or chocolate. Doubtless these Biscotins correspond to the Italian Biscottini. Custom has given special meanings to varieties in Continental countries; but they are in Great Britain virtually all included under the one general term of Biscuits. BISCOTTES.-—A French term applied to small pieces of milk bread, baked a light brown, and served with coffee. Answering to our “ pulled bread.” Brussels Biscottes.—Sift 4oz. of dried flour on to a slab, make a hole in the centre, and pour in |oz. of yeast dissolved in a little warm water; mix this in carefully and lightly, adding a little more water to make a soft, smooth paste; roll this into a ball, put it in a bowl, score it with a knife, cover it over, and set it to rise in a warm place. Sift 12oz. more of the dried flour into a basin, make a hole in the centre, put in 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar and a small pinch of salt, and pour over sufficient water to dissolve them ; now add lOoz. of butter, and the grated rind of two lemons, and work the whole into a smooth paste, using the hands very lightly, but taking care to break all the lumps. When the dough has risen to about three times its original bulk, add it to the paste, together with 1 teacupful of well-whipped cream, and beat well with the hand to give it an elastic appearance. Cut the paste into twelve equal-sized parts, roll them out to about 3in. in length, put each one into a well-buttered tin of an oblong shape, let them rise in the heat of the kitchen, brush them over with egg, put them on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven, and bake them until they are done and of a light colour. Take them out, cut them lengthwise into slices, and colour them slightly in the oven; then take them out again, and serve. BISCOTTINI.—Although this Italian term may be considered to refer in a general way to the tribe of small sweet cakes, or Biscuits, nevertheless it has a special as well as a general signification, particularly as applied to the following receipts: Polish. Biscottini.—Put the yolks of six eggs into a basin with 3oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, and work them to- gether until they become quite white; then add 6oz. of flour, 1 dessert-spoonful of aniseed or of liqueur, teacupful of cream, and 1 pinch of salt. Mix well, turn the paste on to a floured board, roll it out into the shape of a short rolling- pin, about 8in. long and 2in. in diameter. Have ready a stiff paper case, long and wide enough to admit the roll of paste, and mask it well with butter. Brush the paste over with egg, put it into the case, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Take it out, and while warm cut it lengthwise into slices; brown these lightly in the oven, take them out again, and they are ready for use. Russian Biscottini.—Sift |lb. of flour on to a board, make a hole in the centre, put in loz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, aoz. of salt, the same of caraway-seeds, and 1 teacupful of cream. Mix thoroughly, cut the paste into about two-and-a- half dozen equal parts, roll them out like thin sticks, put them on a baking-sheet (not greased), fastening down the ends to keep them in position, put the baking-sheet into a rather quick oven, and bake for about six minutes. Take them out when done, let them get cold, and serve with cheese. Victoria Biscottini.—Put 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar into a basin with the yolks of four eggs, and work them well for eight or ten minutes; then add 2oz. of warmed or dissolved butter, 1 table-spoonful of orange sugar, Joz. of yeast dis- solved in a little warm water, 6oz. of flour, and a few drops of essence of cloves. Mix well, and add thick royal icing, made with one white of egg ; work the paste well with the hands, put it into a biscuit-forcer, squeeze it out into rings, about l£in. in diameter, on to a well-waxed baking-sheet, and bake them to a light colour in a moderate oven. Take them out when done, cover them with rose-pink icing, and they are ready for use. BISCUITS (Fr. Biscuits; Ger. Swiebacken; Ital. Biscotti; Sp. Bizcochos).—Bis, twice, and cuits (or Latin coctus), cooked, is the derivation of this term, referring probably in its origin to a class of goods which were only partially baked in the first instance and put in the oven again, or toasted, before serving, such as our tea- cakes and muffins. Larousse, the French etymologist, believes that the term was first applied to “ a well- known variety of hard, dry, unleavened bread made in thin flat pieces.” Biscuit is universally adopted now by all Continental confectioners as applying in the broader sense to an extensive description of pastry goods