THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 149 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bisk—continued. tinental soup into which a great many tasty ingredients were cleverly blended. It was composed generally of some sort of broth or gravy stock, with quenelles of poultry or game, pounded shell-fish—especially crayfish—- and minced fish. Ude, who never stinted on account of expense, says that it is to he sent to table on gala- days only, when you are obliged to make a frequent change of soups. Bisk of Fresh-water Crayfish.—(1) Take the best fresh- water crayfish to be procured; five or six dozen are not too many as a rule. If you boil the crayfish especially for this occasion, do not put any vinegar into the water. Select two- and-a-half dozen of the finest tails that remain whole. Pound the rest with all the meat and fleshy parts of the inside in a mortar with the flesh of the breasts of two roasted fowls or chickens. Boil the crumb of two French penny rolls in some rich broth ; put this into a mortar with some yolks of eggs boiled hard, and pound together ; then mix up with the cray- fish and chicken. Next put the shells of the crayfish to boil in 1 pint of broth, use some of the liquor to dilute the pounded meat, and rub it through a fine sieve. Then boil lj pints of cream, and keep stirring it round so that no scum shall rise ; pour into the soup, and season all well with salt and pepper. Have ready the red spawn of a lobster well pounded, dilute it with some of the broth, and mix it up with the soup. Keep hot without boiling. Soak a few rounds of bread, and lay them at the bottom of the tureen; pour the Bisk on to them, place the tails that have been reserved over the soup, and serve up hot. This Bisk should not bo too thick. (2) Mannheim Style.—Dubois gives a receipt for this which differs in some particulars from the above. Choose two dozen live crayfish, put them into a stewpan with a little salt, a bunch of parsley mixed with a few sprigs of aromatic herbs, and I teaspoonful of peppercorns; moisten witli 1 wineglassful of good white wine and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, or half-a-dozen sliced tomatoes. Cover, and warm up to boil- ing for ten minutes; then drain, take out a part of the tails, and pound the remainder of the crayfish with 6oz. of rice boiled dry in broth. Dilute this with the liquor the crayfish were boiled in, and l|qts. of fish- or meat-broth. Pass the soup twice through a fine sieve, season highly, warm well without letting it boil, and add it to the crayfish-tails minced fine, and sprinkle over a pinch of cayenno pepper. Serve up the soup in a tureen, with small dice of bread fried in butter or bacon-fat. (3) Delamere gives a receipt for an economical Bisk, as follows: Take fifty live crayfish, and boil them in a very small quantity of water, seasoned with salt, c.oarse-ground or whole pepper, parsley, and onion. Let them cook twenty minutes after boiling up, stirring now and then gently, so as to have all equally cooked, but taking care not to break them. Drain, and stand to cool in the stock in which they have been boiled. When cool, pick out the flesh of the tails, half open them to remove the black thread or intestine which runs through their whole length, pick out the flesh of the claws, and sot all these aside together. Pound in a mortar all the rest (shells and heads) very small, reducing them to a stiff paste with a lump of butter about the size of an orange. Put this paste into a stewpan with ^ pint of water, and boil till all the goodness is extracted, say for an-hour-and-a-half; then strain, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Add 2qts. of veal-stock or broth, and boil up again. Arrange a layer of bread cut into dice and fried in butter, together with the meat of the crayfish set aside for the purpose, pour the soup over, and serve. (4) The soup No. 3 may be considerably enriched by using more fish, and adding J pint of cream, 1 gill or so of pounded lobster coral, the pounded yolks of hard-boiled eggs, or the pounded flesh of two or three boiled soles. Small lobsters, prawns, and shrimps make quite as good a Bisk as crayfish, whose chief merit appears to be that they can bo caught inland. Bisk of Lobster.—Pick the meat of the lobster from the shell, and cut the tender pieces into Jin. dice. Put the ends of the claw-meat, and any other tough hard parts, in a saucepan with the bones of tbe body and 1 pint of cold water; boil it Bisk—continued. for twenty minutes, adding more water as it boils away. Tut the coral to dry in a moderate oven. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour with a little cold milk, then stir it into the remainder of 1 qt. of milk, which should be boiling; stir it over the fire and boil for ten minutes; then strain the water from the bones and other parts, mix it with the milk, put in 1 table- spoonful of butter, and season with salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Bub the dried coral through a fine hair sieve, and put sufficient in the soup to make it a bright pink colour. Put the green fat and lobster-dice in a soup-tureen, strain the boiling soup over them, and serve at once. If liked, force- meat balls made in the following manner may be put in the soup: put only half of the lobster-meat cut in dice in the soup ; chop the remainder, put it in a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, 1 teaspoonful of butter, a little salt and pepper; pound it, then mix it to a stiff paste with a beaten egg; shape the paste into balls the size of a nutmeg, put them in the soup before it is turned out, and let them simmer long enough to cook the egg, which will take about five minutes. Bisk of Prawns.—Put a hundred well-washed prawns into 2qts. of boiling water, and boil them until the shells turn red. In the meantime, wash 21b. of eels in cold water, cut them in lin. pieces, and put them over the fire in sufficient cold water to cover them, together with 1 gill of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of whole peppercorns, a blade of mace, an onion peeled and stuck with a dozen whole cloves, a sprig of any sweet herb except sage, a small sprig of parsley with root attached, a stalk of celery, and 1 tea- spoonful of salt. As soon as the prawns are red, put the hot liquor in which they were boiled with the above-named ingredients, and then take the prawns from the shells; put the flesh of the prawns aside until the soup is nearly‘done, add the shells to the other ingredients, cover the soup-kettle, and boil until they are reduced to a pulp; then strain the soup through a towel laid in a colander. Put 2 table- spoonfuls each of butter and flour in a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until they bubble; then gradually stir in the strained soup, about J breakfast-cupful at a time, until a creamy soup is made ; add the flesh of the prawns to this, season it palatably, put with it 1 gill of Sauterne wine, let it heat to the boiling-point, and then serve it hot. If prawns are not plentiful, some lobster flesh may be shredded and used for the soup. BISMARCKS.—This name has been given to a sort of American dough-nut, made up with stewed fruit inside. An American pastrycook gives the following plan and proportions for their manufacture : Take 21b. of light dough, and put it into a largo pan with i teacupful each of molasses and brown sugar, a beaten egg, and 2oz. of melted lard. Work these together thoroughly, and then leave the dough to rise a little, say for half-an - hour or so. Then work in sufficient sifted flour to stiffen the dough, and leave it again, covered with a cloth and in a warm place, to prove. In the course of four or five hours the dough may be rolled out into a very thin sheet, and bo brushed over with a paste-brush dipped in water. Put 1 teaspoonful of stewed fruit of the kind chosen (any kind without stones will do) at a convenient distance apart, say a clear l^in. every way; cover this with another sheet of the dough, and cut out with a largo biscuit-cutter so that the fruit is carefully enclosed, one pile in each Bismarck. Set these on a floured tray to rise a bit, then drop them into hot lard, and fry to a light brown. BISQUE.—Fr. for Bisk. BITTERS.—“ The taste for Bitters is growing day by day,” says a writer on popular beverages, which statement is met by the following from another author: “ This class of liquors has been justly charged with being the fertile cause of habitual intemperance, of disease, and even of death.” And again, “ Their occasional use as tonics or stomachics is also objectionable— owing to the trash and even deleterious substances, which so frequently enter into their composition.” Yet another writer upon the subject comments upon the above in the following words : “ That an occasional