TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 108 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, tee under their special heads. Beef—continued. Boiled Silverside of Beef.—Put 101b. or 121b. of tbe silver- side of Beef (Fig. 102, 4) into a bowl of pickle, and let it remain for about ten days. Take it out, drain and wash it, tie it up into a round shape, fastening it with broad tape, put it into a saucepan of water over the fire, and boil it for a few minutes. Carefully take off all the scum, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for two-and-a-half or three hours. When done, skewer it, remove the tape, put it on a dish, pour over a little of the liquor, and serve with carrots and parsnips as a garnish. Boiled Tom Thumb Rib of Pickled Beef.—Take out the bone from a rib of Beef (Fig. 120) weighing from 91b. to 101b., rub the inside with a little salt, roll it up, and secure it either with tape or skewers. Put it into a bowl of pickle, and let it remain for six or seven days, turning it daily. Take it out, drain, put it into a saucepan of boiling water on the side of the fire, and let it simmer slowly for about three hours, or until the joint is done. Take it out, remove the wooden skewers, if any are used, supplanting them with silver or plated ones, put the meat on a dish, and serve. Braised Beef.—(1) Cover the bottom of a stewpan with a layer of sliced onions, and over this arrange a layer of thick slices of fat bacon, and place a piece of round of Beef (Fig. 102, 5)— about 101b.—on the bacon. Tie the Beef up first into a nice shape with string. Set the saucepan on the fire for twenty minutes, and turn the Beef over once or twice during that time ; then add 1 tumblerful of wine, two carrots, an onion cut in slices, a bundle of sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, and a few cloves. Then fill up the saucepan with suffi- cient stock to cover the top of the Beef. Put the lid of the pan on, and braise the Beef from four to five hours, putting from time to time a few hot cinders on the lid. Serve this joint with its own gravy, after straining and freeing from fat. (2) Take 41b. to 61b. of Beef from the lower part of the round (Fig. 102, 5) or face of the rump (Fig. 121). Trim, and well ruh with salt, pepper, and flour. Cut two small onions into dice, and fry them until light brown in pork-fat or dripping. Beef—continued. Skim them out into a hraising-pan, then brown the meat all over in this fat, adding more fat if needed. Put the meat into the pan resting on skewers, to keep it from touching the pan, with the onions around, not under the meat. Add lqt. of boiling water, and 1 table-spoonful of mixed herbs, which should be tied in a small piece of tammy-cloth or muslin. Cover closely, putting a brick on the cover to keep it down, and cook in a moderate oven for four hours, basting every twenty minutes; turn over after two hours. Add more water as it evaporates, so as to have 1 pint left for gravy. When tender, take up the meat, remove the fat and bag of herbs from the gravy, add more salt and pepper, and if desired add lemon-juice, tomatoes or mushrooms, or their ketchups. Wet 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in a little cold water, and add to thicken. Cook ten minutes, and pour over the meat. Garnish with potato balls, boiled onions, or with piles of vegetables. Scraped horseradish is sometimes served with this meat. (3) Procure a rump of Beef (Fig. 102, 2) weighing 31b., lard it with four large pieces of salted pork, seasoned with 1 pinch of chopped parsley and a crushed clove of garlic. Lay the Beef in a braising-pan, with pieces of salted pork or fat at the bottom, add one sliced onion, the round slices of one carrot, one sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf; season with J table-spoonful of salt and J pinch of pepper; then cover, and brown it well on both sides for ten minutes. Moisten with J pint of broth, and 2 pint of Spanish sauce; then cook for an hour. When finished, lay it on a dish, garnishing with six stuffed cabbages. Skim off the fat, strain the gravy, and pour the sauce over, or else serve it in a tureen. Braised Beef a la Bignonne.—Braise a rump of Beef. Take six large potatoes, and pare them as round as possible ; scoop out the insides with a vegetable-cutter, being careful not to break them, parboil them slightly for three minutes on a quick fire, and then fill them with any kind of forcemeat; place them in the oven with 2 table-spoonfuls of clarified butter, and bake well for twenty minutes. Serve them around the Beef, three on each side of the dish. Braised Beef en Daube.—Add to a piece of braised Beef, loz. of salted pork, cut in small square pieces, the round slices of two carrots and twelve glazed onions, also one cut-up turnip. Put all these ingredients into the pan with the Beef three-quarters-of-an-hour before serving. Braised Beef & la Flamande.—Braise the Beef as de- scribed under Braised Beep, and serve it decorated with clusters of a quarter of a cooked red cabbage, two cooked turnips, and two carrots, all sliced. (Bed cabbage, carrots, and turnips should all be cooked separately.) Braised Beef d la mode.—Lard with four large pieces of salted pork a piece of Beef weighing about 31b. Let it marinade for twelve hours with the juice of half a lemon, 1 table-spoon- ful of salt, half the quantity of pepper, one sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, and half-a-dozen parsley roots. Put the meat (after marinading) in a saucepan with Joz. of butter, and let both sides brown well for ten minutes ; take it out, and lay it on a dish. Then add to the gravy about 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stirring it well, and moisten with lqt. of broth, mixing it in slowly while the sauce is boiling. Beplace the Beef in the saucepan with two sliced carrots and twelve small glazed onions, and cook for one hour, adding a strong bouquet garni, 1 wineglassful of claret wine, and a tiny piece of crushed garlic ; also J teaspoonful of salt, and the third of that quantity of pepper. Serve on a hot dish, skim the fat off the gravy, and strain it over. Arrange the carrots and onions in clusters around the dish, and serve. Braised Beef a l’Orsini. — Braise a piece of Beef, as described under Braised Beep, and serve it on a dish garnished with rice, prepared as follows : With some cold boiled rice form six balls the size of eggs, roll them in bread- crumbs, then dip them in beaten eggs, lard them with Jin. slices of cooked smoked tongue, and fry in hot fat for three minutes. Serve these round the Beef, with its own gravy well skimmed and strained over. Braised Beef a la Providence.—Braise a piece of Beef weigh- ing about 31b., as described under Braised Beep, adding a quarter of a cooked cauliflower, J breakfast-cupful of flageolet beans, and 1 breakfast-cupful of cooked carrots, cut with a