71 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culimry Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jec., referred to, see under their special heads Bananas— continued. three times more. The cream should by this time bo quite firm. Spread a folded napkin over a cold dish, dress the cream over, and send to the table. Banana Cream Pie.—Put ljoz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of crushed loaf sugar, the yolks of two eggs, 1 teacupful each of milk and sherry or angelica, and a littlo more than 1 breakfast-cupful of Bananas mashed to a pulp. Pour the mixture into a deep dish, stir in the well-whipped whites of the two eggs, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake until done, taking care, by covering it over with paper, not to let it bake too quickly. Take it out, and serve. Banana Fritters.—(1) Peel a dozen or so Bananas, cut them in halves if large, put into a basin, and soak in a mixture of rum and sugar. Take the Bananas out, dip them into thin batter, plunge into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and fry to a light brown. When done, take them out, drain, drop them in caster sugar, and serve on a dish; or they may be served with sweet sauce, or with syrup poured over them. (2) Peel a dozen Bananas, cut them in halves, not length- wise, put these into a basin, and steep in syrup for an hour or two. Take the Bananas out, drain them, roll them well in flour, coating them thickly with it, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and fry to a light brown. Take them out when done, put on a dish, pour over more syrup, and serve. They may also be baked until they are crisp and well browned, but should be kept basted with syrup while baking. Banana Pie.—Line a pie-dish with rich puff paste, having it thinner in the centre of the dish than it is at the outside. This can bo easily done by folding over the paste and rolling it. Remove the peel from four or five mellow Bananas, cut them up lengthwise in slices, put these in the dish, cover them with crushed loaf sugar, put a few small lumps of butter on the top, and pour over 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of wine. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes; take out the pie when done, and serve. Banana Syrup.—Dissolve 2 drachms of the essential oil of Banana in G pints of simple syrup, and stir in 1 drachm of powdered tartaric acid. Compote of Bananas.—Peel a dozen or so Bananas, cut them in halves, put them into a saucepan with sufficient sweet sauce to cover them, and parboil. Put a thick layer of well- sweetened boiled rice on a dish, lay the Bananas on it, pour the sauce over, and serve. BANBURY CAKES.—The town of Banbury, in Oxfordshire, has for generations past been famous for the manufacture of these delicacies, and cheese, as well as for its famous cross, to visit which we were in our Fig. 75. Banbury Cakes. childhood so often invited by our nurses to “ ride a cock- horse,” and behold the musically-disposed young lady “ sit on a white horse.” Whether the fame of the cakes preceded the rhyme, or the rhyme called attention to the cakes, we are unable to state; or, indeed, whether there is any connection whatever between the two ex- cepting that of localisation; but this we can confidently state, that the inventor of the Banbury Cake deserved, if he did not realise, a fortune—he has been much flattered by a multitude of imitators. Whether the cake was first made in Banbury, or merely fantastically named after that town, is another moot point; certain it is, how- Banbury Cakes—continued. ever, that local confectioners have taken full advantage of the circumstance, and, as with the Richmond “ maids of honour,” there are more makers of them there now than the originator. (1) Put lib. of butter on to a board well sprinkled with flour, and roll it out in sheets. Put the remainder of the flour (using ljlb. in all) into a basin, add a little yeast, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and make the whole into a stiff paste. Boll this out, place tho sheets of butter on it, double up, and roll out, repeating the operation five times in all. Cut up into squares of about ljin. in diameter, and cover each square over with 1 teaspoonful of a mixture made of finely-chopped candied peel, well-washed and dried currants, moist sugar, and brandy. Bring the corners of the paste together in the centre, over the mixture, giving the cakes an oval appearance; turn them over on to a baking- sheet, having the joins underneath, dust with caster sugar, and let them remain for a little time ; then put them into a moderate oven, and bake very gently for about half-an-hour. Take them out when done, and they are ready for use. A rich mincemeat for the cakes may be made with 2oz. of bcof-suet, 12oz. of currants, 4oz. of candied orange- or lemon-peel (or half of each), 3oz. of ratafias, and a little seasoning of grated nutmeg, chopped up fine together. (2) Put lib. of butter into a basin, warm it, and mix in fib. of flour, lib. of moist sugar, 21b. of well-washed and dried currants, fib. each of candied orange- and lemon-peel, and Joz. each of powdered cinnamon and allspice. When thoroughly mixed, jiut small quantities of it upon little rounds of puff paste, close the paste over the top, flatten them, dust over with caster sugar, arrange on a baking-sheet, giving them a littlo distance between one another, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Then take them out, and serve either hot or cold. (3) Take 31b. of fine sifted flour, and work into it fib. of fresh butter. Moisten the flour with about 1 pint of water in which a little German yeast has previously been stirred up, and make into a smooth paste. Boll out on a large sheet, and lay on the remainder of butter (21b. in all); fold over, and roll out again : do this three times, and then cut into square pieces about as large as a duck’s egg. Have ready a mince- meat of currants, candied peel choi>ped fine, and moist sugar, moistened with a little brandy. Boll out the pieces of paste square, and put 2 teaspoonfuls of this mixture on each piece; bring the two corners together in the middle, close them up into an oval shape, and turn tho cake upside down, so that the closing may be downwards. Sift finely- powdered loaf sugar over the tops, put them on a cold well- buttered tin, let them stand awhile in the cold to prove (as bakers call it), and bake in a moderate oven. (4) Take 21b. of currants, foz. each of ground allspice and powdered cinnamon, 4oz. each of candied orange- and lemon- peel, 8oz. of fresh butter, lib. of moist sugar, and 12oz. of flour, and mix the whole well together. Boll out a piece of rich puff paste, and cut into oval shapes. Put a small quantity of the mince into each, double them up in the shape of an oval puff, passing the closing under, and flatten down with the floured hand or rolling-pin. Sift powdered sugar over the tops, and set on buttered baking-sheets to cook. (5) Take lib. of fresh butter, warm it, and beat to a cream. Into this stir lib. of candied lemon- and orange-peel minced very finely, 21b. of well-washed and dried grocers’ currants, loz. of powdered cinnamon, 4oz. of powdered allspice. Mix them all together thoroughly, and put into a covered jar for future use. The paste should be a tolerably rich puff rolled out thin, and cut into rounds, squares, or ovals. Put a layer of the mince on each flat, and fold over, passing tho closing (wet the edges for this) under, flatten with the hand, and shape. Lay these on buttered baking-sheets, and bake. Before putting them into the oven, brush the tops over with the whites of eggs beaten into a froth with icing sugar. They will take about fifteen minutes to bake. Banbury Mincemeat.—Wash and dry well fib. of currants, and mix them with 2oz. of beef-suet chopped as fine as possible, a little nutmeg, Jib. of candied orange-peel shred very fine, 3oz. of ratafias crushed up, and a slip of lemon- peel. Mix all well together, and when required for use it should be spread over paste, and baked.