PRINCIPLES OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. purposes. They are tubes of steel, one end being closed and tapered to a sharp point, the other opened and split down in four places for from one to two inches. The strip of bacon is inserted in the open end, and must be encased for about half its length to prevent the shrinking of the meat after the needle has passed through drawing it out of the tube. As a rule, both ends of the lardoon stand out of the meat, but sometimes it is drawn through so as to leave only one end in sight. The needle is inserted—not too deeply—generally across the grain, and the size of the stitch depends on the size of the article and the number of lardoons to be used. The ends which stand up should be trimmed with scissors to an even length, care being taken that the stitches are evenly placed and at equal distances apart. Marmite. Literally " a pot ". A small pot with a lid, usually earthenware, in which is served one portion of soup. Mask. To cover with a liquid which will solidify, such as sauce stiffened with gelatine or jelly. These are used when just on the point of setting. Mayonnaise. An emulsion of raw yolks of eggs and oil, which with various seasonings and flavourers forms a thick cold sauce, served with salads, fish, etc., and making the base of many others, as Tartare, Remoulade, Ravigote froide, etc. Panard, Panade or Panada. Boiling water, butter and salt, into which flour is stirred and cooked. It forms an ingredient in most farces or forcemeats, and is the base of certain mixtures of the same class as beignets. The name is applied to bread soaked and used for forcemeats, also to meat and bread pounded and stewed for infants' and invalids' food. Parboil. A process often combined with blanching and for the purpose of removing colour or rank flavour. The substance is placed in cold water for a longer or shorter time, then brought to the boil. After a few seconds' scalding it is plunged into cold water, rinsed, trimmed, or cleaned, when it is ready to use for cooking. PoTAGE. A general term meaning " soup " applied to almost any kind except clear soup. Puree. A soup thickened,with the substance from which it derives its special name, which is generally passed into it through a sieve or tammy. Also any substance, fish, meat, vegetables