THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1058 sliuwii 1)V the darkly-shaded })ai-ts in Fig. 712, the back of the uieseiiteiies of the aisceuding, descending, and iliac portions of the colon, adheres to the yjosterior abdominal wall, and these mesenteries become lost; whilst the mesenteries of the transverse and pelvic portions of the colon remain free, and persist in the adult. At the same time, the mesentery proper (which was at first attached only at its narrow neck, between the dnodenum and transverse colon, and below this was continuous on the right with the ascending mesocolon), now acquires a new attachment to the posterior abdominal wall through the absorption of the ascending mesocolon (Fig. 712), and the adult condition is attained. THE LIVER. The liver (liepar) is a, large glaudular mass of irregular shape, wliich lies tuider cover of the ribs in the upper and right portion of the abdominal cavity, immediately beneath the diaphragm (Fig. 714). It is the largest of all the digestive glands, and plays an important part in the metabolism of both carbo- hyilrate and nitrogenous materials: in addition, it secretes the l)ile — a Huid which although chiefly excretory, assists to some extent in pancreatic digestion. From the liver the bile is conveyed to the duodenum Ijy the bile duct, in con- nexion with which is found a pear-shaped diverticulum, for the temporary storage of the ])ile, known as tlie (jaU-Uadder (Fig. 716). Form.—The liver is so irregular, and varies so considerably in size and shape in different bodies, and even in the same ))ody under different conditions, that it is difficult to convey a true idea of its form. This, perhaps, may be most readily realised from a consideration of the portion of the abdomen in which the liver lies, and to the shape of which its form is chiefly due. The u])per portion of the abdominal cavity is dome-shaped, its anterior, posterior, and lateral walls, as well as its roof, l)eing formed chiefly by the vaulted under surface (»f the diaphragm, which slopes down on the inner aspect of the ribs as far as the lower border of the thoracic framework. In the right and middle portions of the dome-shaped space thus formed the liver lies, like a cast in its mould, and from it chiefly its form is derived. And, if an iihaginary plane be passed l)ackwards and upwards, from an ol)lique line extending across the anterior a))dominal wall, from a point immediately below the right margin of the ribs to a point one inch below the left ni])ple, it will cut off a segment of the abdominal cavity which corre- sponds tolerably accurateh' to the liver, in both size and form. Accordingly, the liver may lie described as having two chief surfaces : a parietal surface, convex in general outline, which fits into the arch of the diaphragm; and a visceral surface, irregular in form, which looks downwards, backwards, and to the left, and rests upon the al)doniinal viscera. These two surfaces are separated from one aiuither liy the Inferior margin of the liver. Syniingtou has (Inscribed the liver, when hardened //( nitu, as a riglit-aiigled triangular prism witli its right angles rounded off, and as having five surfaces—anterior, posterior, superior, right, and inferior. The first foui' of these would be included in the parietal surface described above, and the inferior corresjionds to the visceral surface. Syuiington's description has received a \iiv\ wide acceptance. Previously His had desi iilx-d three surfaces : an inferior, corresponding to the ^'isceral, and a .su])erior and posterior, wliich together c(jrres])ond to the parietal surface. Before His's descri])tion, which changed all ])revious views on the form of the livei-, became current, it was described as having two surfaces, an u]iper and a lower, and two i)orders, an anterior thin and a ])osterior thick ; and this is the shape of the ordinary soft dissecting-room bvei', which fiattens out into a cake - like form when removed from the body. In the body, on the other hand, instead of being fiatteued out in this way, it is folded, as it were, around its ])ortal and longitudinal fissures into a much more compact mass; and if hard- ened in situ before its remo\'al, it ])resents an apjjearance very difi'ercnt from that of the soft ]iver just reterred io. Froiu a study of such hai-dened specimens it will l)e seen that the mass of the right lobe lies chiefly in an antero-posterior (hrection, its posterior thick jwrtion fitting into a wide groove at the side of the vertebral column, and its long axis running from behind forwards and a little inwards. The left lobe, leading off from the anterior part of the right lobe, is iblded across the front of the vertebral column and great ^'essels, its long axis running transversely, but it does not usually ])ass back at the side of the vertebral colunni, like the right lobe, into the vertebral groove; so that there is no ii-al notch, as usually described, at the back of the lix'er foi' tlie