651 THE TENTH OE PNEUMOGASTEIC NEEVE. nerves: (1) with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; (2) with the hypo- glossal ; (3) with the loop between the first and second cervical nerves; and (4) with the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve. This part of the nerve applies itself to the ganglion, and thereby supplies to the vagus nerve the inhibitory fibres for the heart, as well as the motor fibres for the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach and intestines, larynx and respiratory organs. Branches of the Pneumogastric in the Neck.^—In the ueck the pneumo- gastric nerve supphes cardiac l:)ranches and (on the right side) the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve (Fig. 467). The cardiac branches are superior and inferior. On the right side both cardiac branches pass downwards into the thorax behind the subclavian artery, and proceed alongside the trachea to join the deep cardiac plexus. On the left side the two nerves separate on reaching the thorax. The superior nerve passes deeply along- side the trachea to join the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior nerve accompanies the pneumogastric nerve over the aortic arch, along with the superior cervical cardiac branch of the sympathetic, to end in the superficial cardiac plexus. The right inferior laryngeal nerve arises at the root of the neck, as the pneumogastric nerve crosses over the first part of the subclavian artery. It hooks round the artery, and passes obliquely upwards and inwards behind the subclavian, the common carotid, and the inferior thyroid artery and the thyroid body. It finally disappears beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor muscle, and ends in supplying the muscles of the larynx. In its course it gives off the following branches:— (1) Cardiac branches arise as the nerve winds round the subclavian artery, and course downwards alongside the trachea to end in the deep cardiac plexus. (2) Communicating branches to the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic arise from the nerve behind the subclavian artery. (3) Muscular branches supply the trachea, oesophagus, and the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. (4) Terminal branches supply the muscles of the larynx (except the crico-thyroid) and communicate beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage with branches of the internal laryngeal nerve. Branches of the Vagus in the Thorax. — In the thorax the pneumo- gastric nerve forms the great pulmonary and esophageal plexuses. The right nerve, in addition, furnishes cardiac branches; and the left nerve gives off the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve. The left inferior laryngeal nerve differs from the nerve of the right side only in its point of origin and in the early part of its course. It springs from the pneumogastric nerve as it crosses the aortic arch, and, after hooking round the arch external to the ligamentum arteriosurii, it passes upwards in the superior mediastinum in the interval between the trachea and oesophagus to the neck. In the neck its course and relations are similar to those of the nerve of the right side. The l)ranches of the nerve are the same as those of the right nerve. The cardiac branches are larger, and, arising below the aortic arch, proceed to the deep cardiac plexTis. Cardiac branches from the right pneumogastric nerve arise in the superior mediastinum, and pass downwards alongside the trachea to join the deep cardiac plexus. On the right side thoracic cardiac branches are thus supplied from both the trunk of the nerve and its recurrent branch ; on the left side the cardiac branches in the thorax arise solely from the recurrent branch. Abdominal Branches.—After the formation of the oesophageal plexus the two pneumogastric nerves resume their course, and passing along with the gullet through the diaphragm, terminate by supplying the stomach. The right nerve enters the abdominal cavity behind the gullet, and is distributed to the posterior surface of the stomach. It sends communicating offsets to the cceliac, splenic, and renal plexuses. The left nerve applies itself to the anterior surface and lesser cur- vature of the stomach, to which it is distributed. It sends communicating offsets along the lesser curvature of the stomach to the right pneumogastric, and between the layers of the small omentum to the hepatic plexus.