THE DEEr CONNEXIONS OF THE CEANIAL NEEVES. 483 encountered the moment the boundary line between the medulla and pons is passed, and the region immediately above the inferior olivary nucleus is reached. At first it lies so deeply in the tegmentum of the pons that it actually rests upon the dorsal aspect of the corpus trapezoides; but a little farther up the superior olive comes into view, and insinuates itself between the facial nucleus and the trapezial fibres. The upper part of the nucleus is in this way tilted somewhat backwards, and thus comes to lie on the dorsal and outer aspect of the superior^ olive. The facial nucleus is situated close to the place where the nerve emerges from the brain, but the nerve does not at once pass to this point of exit. It pursues a long and devious path within the pons before it finally reaches the surface. This intrapontine part of the nerve may be divided into three parts, viz.: (1) a radicular part, (2) an ascending portion, and (3) an emergent part. Ml, -r' Fig. 358.—Section through the Pons Varolii of the Orang, Sliovviiig the nucleus and intrapontine course of the facial nerve. The left side of the drawing is taken from a section at a slightly lower level than the section from which the right side is talien. 1. Ascending part of facial nerve. 2. Posterior longitudinal bundle. 3. Descending root of eighth nerve. 4. Radicular fibres of facial nerve. 5. Restiforni body. 6. Facial nucleus. 7. Spinal root of fifth nerve. 8. Vestibular nerve. 9. Superior olive. 10. Fillet. 11. Pyramidal tract. 12. Transverse fibres of jious. B 1. Ascending jjart of facial nerve. 2. Emergent portion of facial nerve. 3. Restiforni body. 4. Nucleus of sixth nerve. 5. Sixth nerve. 6. Emergent part of facial nei've. 7. Peduncle of superior olive. 8. Superior olive. 9. Corpns trapezoides. 10. Facial nerve. 11. Sixth nerve. 12. Pyramidal tract. 13. Transverse fibres of pons. The radicular part of the facial nerve (Fig. 359) is composed of a large number of fine loosely-arranged bundles of fibres, which issue from the outer and dorsal aspect of the nucleus and proceed backwards and slightly inwards through the pons. Beaching the floor of the fourth ventricle they curve inwards, and the bundles which lie highest up sweep over the outer and dorsal aspect of the lower part of the nucleus of the sixth nerve. Close to the mesial plane they turn sharply upwards and are collected into a single solid nerve-bundle, which consti- tutes the ascending part of the facial nerve (Figs. 358 and 359). This proceeds vertically upwards immediately beneath the ependyma of the ventricular floor, on the dorsal aspect of the posterior longitudinal bundle, and along the inner side of the sixth or abducent nucleus, for a distance of about five millimetres. Suddenly the nerve bends outwards at a right angle and curves a second time over the dorsal aspect of the sixth or abducent nucleus. The nerve now passes straight to the place, of exit from the brain, and this part of the intrapontine trunk may be termed the