903 ABNORMALITIES OF VEINS. l-lie obturator artery and to tlie subsequent enlargement of the anastomosing pu))ic branches of the obturator and deej) epigastric arteries. The course of the abnormal obturator artery is of importance. From its origin it descends into the pelvis on the inner side of the external iliac vein, and in the majority of cases on the outer side of the crural ring, but in three-tenths of the eases, and more frequently in males than in females, it descends on the inner side of the ring. The obturator artery sometimes gives off an accessory pudic branch which passes along the side of the prostate, 2)ierces the triangular ligament, and terminates by dividing into the artery of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the penis. When this occurs the pudic artery is small, and it terminates in the artery to the bulb. Occasionally the accessory pudic arises from the pudic artery in the pelvis, or from one of the vesical arteries. The external iliac artery may be inucli smaller than usual, especially if the sciatic artery persists as the main vessel of the lower limb. It may give off two deep circumflex iliac branches, a dorsal artery of the penis, an internal circumflex artery of the thigh, or a vas aberrans, and its deep circumflex iliac and deep epigastric branches may arise at higher or lower levels than usual. The Arteries of the Lower Limb. The femoral artery is small, and ends in the profunda and circumflex branches, when the sciatic artery forms the principal vessel of the lower liml). The jirofunda branch, which usually rises from the outer side of tlie femoral trunk, about one-and-a-lialf inches ))elow Poupart's liga- ment, niay commence at a higher or a lower level, and from the back or the inner side of the femoral trunk. Absence of the profunda has been noted, and in these cases the branches usually given oft'by it sj^ring directly from the femoral artery. The femoral artery may be double for a jjortion of its extent, or it may be joined by a vas aberrans given off from the external iliac artery. In addition to its ordinary Ijranches, it may furnish one or both of the circumflex arteries of the thigh, and sometimes it gives off, near the origin of the profunda, a great saphenous artery, such as exists normally in many mammals. This vessel descends through Scarjia's triangle and Hunter's canal, and accompanies the internal saphenous nerve to the inner side of the foot. The deep circumflex iliac, the obturator, and the deep epigastric arteries are occasionally gi^-en off from the femoiul. The popliteal artery may exceptionally form the direct continuation of the sciatic artery. It sometimes divides at a higher or lower level than usual, and the division may be into either two or three branches ; if three terminal branches are present, they are the anterior and posterior tibial and the i^eroneal arteries, and if only two, either the anterior and posterior tibial, or the anterior tibial and the peroneal arteries. Occasionally the artery is double for a short portion of its course, and it has been found to cross first behind the inner head of the gastrocnemius to the inner side of the knee, and then in front of the inner head of the gastrocnemius to regain the popliteal space. The number of its branches may be reduced, or they may be increased by the addition of a vas aberrans which con- nects it with the posterior tibial artery. Its superficial sural branch may enlarge to form a well- marked small saphenous artery. The posterior tibial artery may be small or altogether absent, its place being taken by Ijranches of the peroneal artery ; again, it may be longer or shorter than usual, in conformity with the higher or lower division of the popliteal trunk. The peroneal artery is large if either the anterior or posterior tibial arteries are small. The anterior terminal branch of the peroneal is almost invariably large when the anterior tibial artery is small; in some cases, indeed, it rejdaces the whole of the dorsalis pedis continuation of the latter vessel; in others, however, only the tarsal and metatai'sal branches are so replaced. The peroneal sometimes arises from a stem common to it and the anterior tibial artery. The anterior tibial artery may be absent, its place being taken by branches of the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries. It is longer than normal when the popliteal artery divides at a liigher level than usual, and in these cases it may pass either behind or in front of the popliteus muscle. Occasionally the anterior tibial artery and its dorsalis jiedis continuation are lai'ger than normal, and the terminal part of the dorsalis pedis takes the place, more or less completelv, of the external jilantar artery. The internal plantar artery is sometimes very small, and it may be absent; its 2)lace is taken hy branches of the dorsalis pedis or external plantar arteries. The external plantar artery also may be small or aljsent, the plantar arch Ijeing formed entirely by the dorsalis pedis. ABNOEMALITIES of VEINS. Abnormalities or variations of veins are as frequently met with as those of arteries, and they are due to similar causes. The Superior Vena Cava. The superior vena cava may develop on tke left side instead of the right. This peculiariij' is due to the pensistence of the left duct of (hn-icr iust('a<l of that on the right side, and it is associated with absence of the coronary sinus, wliicli is ii'plaeed l)y the lower part of the left superior vena cava. An exceptional case is recorded in which llic opening of the coronary sinus