THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1056 which was originally the left side of the organ ; similarly, the right nerve lies on the back, which was originally the right side. Intestines. — At first there is no separation into large and small intestines ; the primitive canal simply foi'ms a slender tube, with a convexity towards the umbilical orifice, through which the vitelline duct yjasses to the yolk sac. Later, the tube increas(-s iii length, and in emljryos of 11 or 12 mm. an outgrowth of the canal appears, which represents the future c;ecum, and indicates the sejjaration into large and small intestines, (irowing longer, the intestine forms a large loop with the vitelline duct si)ringing from and the superior mesenteric artery, running down between the layers of its mesentery. its apex (Fig. 711) CEsophagu? Stoiiiacli Spleen Sniall intestine Superior mesen- teric artery Small intestine Vitellin duct Caacum Inferior mesenteric artery Rectum Ventral mesentery Liver Ventral mesentery Bile duct Stouiach Diaphragm Spleen Ijine crosses meaogastrium Pancreas Sni)erior mesen- teric artery —Duodenum Colon Inferior mesen- teric artery Rectum The mesentery Fir.. 711.- -TWO Dl.\GHAMS TO ILLUSTRATE THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE INTE.STINAL Canal. At the same time the two extremities of the coil approach one another, and form a narrow neck to the. loop, as shown in Fig. 711. There now takes ])lace a change which entirely modifies the position of the parts — this is a rotation of the whole loop, with its mesentery, around the superior mesenteric arteiy as an axis (Fig. 711). The result of this rotation is that the original right side of the loop of gut and mesen- tery becomes the left side ; and the beginning of the large intestine is carried across the duo- superior mesenteric artery, viewed from the left .side. u; rotatiou of the intestinal loop round the , /tti- m ci\ ii In both figures the parts are supposed to be denum (Fig. 712), thus supposed explaining the passage of the duodenum behind the transverse colon in the adult. At the same time the ca;cum comes to lie near the middle of the abdomen below the liver, a position in which it will be found during the third month. Subsequently, it passes further to the right; and finally, descending, comes to occupy its adult position. The small intestine continues to grow in length, and, as a result, is thrown into coils, which become more and more complex as the length increases, until the adult condition is attained. Tiie terminal portion of the large bowel retains its position on the left side, and passes down to the anus. The development of the cfccum and appendix is described at page 1027. Peritoneum. — At first the primitive alimentary canal is suspended from the dorsal wall of the embryo, along the middle line, by a simple dorsal mesentery, which extends along the whole length of the tube, and is common to all its divisions—a condition found in the adult stage of many reptiles. There is also present, in the upper part of the cavity, after the stomach and liver descend into the abdomen, a ventral mesentery (Fig. 711), which connects the stomach and duodenum to the back of the liver, and, passing on, connects the front of the liver to the anterior abdominal-wall. The portion of this ventral mesentery, between the stomach and liver, becomes the lesser omentum ; its anterior portion, between the liver and the abdominal wall, forms the falciform ligament (Fig. 711) ; and, in its lower margin, the umbilical vein runs from the umbilicus to the liver. The portion of the dorsal mesentery lying behind the stomach is known as the mesogastrium. At first it is relatively short; but with the growth of the posterior wall of the stomach, and the turning of that organ over on its right side, the mesogastrium becomes elongated, and is folded on itself, forming more or less of a pouch, directed down- wards and to the left. The wall of this pouch becomes in part the great omentum, and within it is developed the small sac of the peritoneum. In the rotation of the stomach ^ind the accompanying passage of the lesser omentum from an antero-posterior to a more or less transverse direction, a portion of the cavity of the abdomen is, as it were, caught in