THE ANAL CANAL. 1041 muscles, which run backwards to the coccyx on each side of tlie bowel. The branches of the superior h;emorrhoidal vessels are also found running down on its muscular coat, as far as the midcUe of the rectum, where they pierce the wall of the bowel. In front, the rectum is separated from the bladder, to within an inch of the prostate, by the rectovesical pouch of peritoneum, which usually contains some coils of small intestine. Below the reflexion of the peritoueum the front of the bowel is in contact with the base of the bladder, the vasa deferentia, vesiculae seminales, and the back of the prostate gland (Fig. 702), from all of which it is separated by the rectovesical layer of the pelvic fascia. In the female (Fig. 707) the rectum is separated from the posterior surface of the uterus and the upper end of the vagina by the pouch of Douglas and the intestine which it usually contains. Below the peritoneal reflexion it is in direct contact with the posterior vaginal waU, to wliich it is connected loosely above, but more closely below. The lower portions of the rectum and bladder in the male are separated by the rectovesical fascia only, over a narrow triangular area which measures about an inch (2-5 cm.) in vertical height. The base of this triangle corresponds to the reflexion of the peritoneum from one organ to the other, and the apex to the base of the prostate, whilst the sides are formed by the vasa deferentia, which lie very close to one another except above, near the base of the triangle, where they diverge rather abruptly (Fig. 702). Through this triangle the operation of tapping the bladder from the rectum is performed. The vesiculaj seminales, unless when of a small size, slope outwards and backwards round the front and sides of the distended rectum (Fig. 702), which they thus embrace, as it were, within their grasp. The ureters, as they run inwards towards the base of the bladder, lie close in front of the vasa deferentia, and are not far separated from the distended rectum (see Fig. 702). The portion of the rectum below the level of the peritoneal reflection is surrounded by the rectal fascia, a layer of connective tissue which is derived from the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia. In the child the rectum, or at least its upper part, is relatively larger, and it pursues a much straigliter course, than in the adult. As pointed out above, its peritoneal covering likewise descends lower at birth, and reaches as far as the base of the prostate. THE ANAL CANAL. Anal Canal (pars analis recti—third part of the rectum of the old descrip- tions).—In order to reach the exterior, it is necessary for the lower end of the bowel to pierce the floor of the pelvis. This it does by passing through the narrow interval left between the mesial borders of the levatores ani muscles (Fig. 701). As it passes between them, the two muscles pinch in the tube, and by the apposition of its lateral walls obliterate its cavity, reducing it to a mere slit- like passage. This passage, through which the rectum communicates with the exterior, is the " anal canal" (Symington). Formerly this terminal portion of the tube was described as tlie " third part of the rectum," and, like the rest of that bowel, it was supposed to form a reservoir for the retention of the fasces. Symington jjointed out that tliis was not the case. He showed that the canal was not of tke same nature as the rest of the rectum, but that it was a mere passage through wliich the bowel discharged its contents, the relation between the two being practically the same as that between the urethra and the bladder.in the female. It is probable, however, that, when the rectum is distended, the upjjer part of the anal canal is often, if not usually, occupied by the wedge- shaped lower end of the contained fiiecal mass, whilst the chief bulk of the contents is supported Ijy the rectal \'alves and the levatores ani. The anal canal begins where the rectum proper terminates, namely, at the level of the levatores ani muscles, opposite the lower part of the prostate. When the distended rectum is cut across near its lower end, in a hardened body, and the cavity examined from the interior, a distinct projection, formed by the inner border of the levator ani (pubo-rectalis, or sphincter recti portion), is 66