275 THE KADIO-CAEPAL JOINT. The interosseous membrane (Fig. 212) of the forearm (membrana interossea inter- brachii) is a strong fibrous membrane which stretches across the interval between the radius and ulna, and is firmly attached to the interosseous border of each. Below it extends downwards to the lower limit of the space between the bones, whilst above it does not reach higher than a point about one inch below the tuberosity of the radius. A gap, called the hiatus interosseus, is thus left above its upper margin, and through this the posterior interosseous artery passes backwards between the bones to reach the dorsal aspect of the forearm. This gap is bounded above by the oblique ligament. The fibres which compose the interosseous membrane run for the most part downwards and inwards from the radius to the ulna, although on its dorsal aspect several bands may be observed stretching in an opposite direc- tion. The interosseous membrane augments the surface for the origin of the muscles of the forearm; it braces the radius and ulna together; and when shocks are com- municated from the hand to the radius, owing to the direction of its fibres, the interosseous membrane transmits these, to some slight extent, to the ulna. The oblique ligament (Fig. 212) is a slender tendinous band of very varying strength which springs from the outer part of the coronoid process of the ulna, and stretches obliquely downwards and outwards to the radius where it is attached immediately below the bicipital tuberosity. Movements of the Radius on the Ulna.—The axis about which the radius moves is a longitudinal one, having one end passing tlirough the centre of the head of tlie radius and the other througli the styloid process of the ulna and the line of tlie ring-finger. In this axis the head of the radius is so secured that it can only rotate upon the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna within the orbicular ligament, and consequently the radial head remains upon the same plane as the ulna; but the lower end of the radius being merely restrained by the triangular fibro-cartilage, is able to describe nearly a half-circle, of which the apex of this ligament is the centre. In this movement the radius caiTies the hand from a position in which the jjalm is directed forwards, and in which the radius and ulna lie parallel to each other (supination), to one in which the palm is directed backAvards, and the radius lies diagonally across the front of the ulna (pronation). The ulna is unable to rotate upon a long axis, but while the radius is travelling through the arc of a circle from without inwards in front of the ulna, it will usually be seen that the ulna appears to move through the arc of a smaller circle in the reverse direction, viz. from within outwards. If the humerus be prevented from hioving at the shoulder-joint, a very large propor- tion, if not the entire amountv-efjjiis apparent movement of the ulna will disappear. At the same time some observers maintain that it really occurs at the elbow-joint, associated with lateral movement during slight degrees of flexion and extension at that joint. THE RADIO-CARPAL JOINT. This joint (articulatio radiocarpea) is a bi-axial diarthrosis, frequently called a condyloid joint. The articular elements whibh enter into its formation are: on ii?,proximal side, the inferior surface of the lower end of the radius, together with the inferior surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage ; on its distal side, the superior articular surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones. The articular surface of the radius is concave both in its antero-posterior and transverse diameters, in order to adapt itself to the opposing surfaces of the scaphoid and semilunar, which are convex in the two axes named. In the ordinary straight position of the hand the triangular fibro-cartilage is in contact with the semilunar bone, and the upper articular surface of the cuneiform bone is in contact with the capsule of the joint. When, however, the hand is bent towards the ulna, the cuneiform bone is carried outwards as well as the semilunar and scaphoid, and the triangular fibro-cartilage comes into contact with the cuneiform. The articular surface of the radius is subdivided by an antero- posterior, slightly elevated ridge, into an outer triangular facet which usually arti- culates with the scaphoid, and an inner quadrilateral facet for articulation with a portion of the semilunar bone. In the intervals between the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones, the con- tinuity of the articular surfaces is usually maintained by the presence of interosseous ligaments which are situated upon the same level as the articular cartilage. Ligaments.—A capsular ligament completely surrounds the joint. It is some- what loosely arranged, and permits of subdivision into the following portions:— The external lateral ligament (Fig. 216) is a well-defined band which is attached