THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. 354 lateral patellar ligaments. Passing down the leg, the fascia blends over the inner surface of the tibia with the periosteum of the bone. It extends round the outer side of the leg from the anterior to the internal border of the tibia, binding together and giving origin to the muscles, and gaining an attachment to the lower part of the shaft of the fibula. Two septa pass from its deep surface ; one septum is attached to the anterior border of the fibula, encloses the musculo- cutaneous nerve, and separates the extensor from the peronei muscles. The other septum is attached to the posterior border of the fibula, and separates the peronei from the flexor muscles. From the last-named septum another extends across the back of the leg, forms a partition between the superficial and deep flexor muscles, and encloses the posterior tibial vessels and nerves. It gives rise to subordinate septa attached to the vertical line of the tibia and the oblique line of the fibula, which separate the tibialis posticus muscle from the flexors of the toes on either side. At the ankle the deep fascia is strengthened by additional transverse fibres; it is attached to the malleoli and the OS calcis, and gives rise to the annular ligaments. The internal annular ligament stretches between the internal mal- leolus and the tuberosity of the OS calcis. While it is continuous at its upper border with the general investment of the deep fascia of the leg, it is chiefly formed by the septal layer cover- ing the deep mus- cles on the back of the lea;. It •Extensor proprius hallucis. Anterior tibial nerve and dorsalis jiedis arter Extensor longus dioitoru Peroneus tertius- Fibula' Interosseous calcaneo- astragaloid ligamenl~r4! Calcaneum Peroneus brevis External annular ligament Peroneus longus- Abductor minimi digiti Plantar fascia- Anterior annular ligament I IBIAI.IS ANTICUS Tibia Astragalus Tibialis posticus Internal annular ligament I'l.EXOR LONGUS dioitorum ■ .—Internal plantar artery B7^yJ-Llnterna.\ plantar nerve . ^^^^^>^Flexor longus hallucis [ ^ ^^Abductor hallucis xternal plantar nerve I'/xternal plantar artery I'LEXOR BREVIS DIGITORUM ACCESSORIUS Fig. 259.—Coronal Section through the left Ankle Joint, Astragalus, AND Calcaneum. sometimes gives insertion to the plantaris muscle. It is continuous below with the plantar fascia, and gives origin to the abductor hallucis muscle. It is pierced by the calcanean vessels and nerve. Along with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, the tendons of the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, and flexor longus hallucis, pass beneath it, each enclosed in a separate synovial sheath. Tlie external annular ligament, much smaller, is a thickened band of the deep fascia stretching between the external malleolus and the os calcis. It binds down the tendons of the peronei, which occupy a space beneath the ligament, lined by a single synovial membrane. The anterior annular ligament is in two parts. An upper band, broad and undefined at its upper and lower borders, stretches across the front of the ankle between the two malleoli. This band binds down to the lower end of the tibia the tendons of the tibialis anticus and extensor muscles of the toes. One synovial sheath is found beneath it, surrounding the tendon of the tibialis anticus. On the dorsum of the foot, where the general covering of deep fascia is much thinner, a special well-defined band stretches over the extensor tendons. This lower band of the anterior annular ligament (fundiform or lanibdoid ligament) has an attachment externally to the greater process of the os calcis. It divides into two bands as it passes inwards over the dorsum of the foot—an upper part, which joins the upper ligament and is attached to the internal malleolus, and a