THE PIA MATEE. 563 Lateral ventricle Choroid plexus of lateral ■ \ seinicircu mater which intervenes between the body of the fornix which lies above it and the epithelial roof of the third ventricle, and the two optic thalami which lie below it. Between its two layers are blood - vessels, and some subarachnoidal trabecular tissue. In shape the velum interpositum is triangular, and the narrow anterior end or apex reaches forwards as far as the foramina of Monro. The base lies under the splenium of the corpus callosum, and here the two layers of the velum separate and become continuous with the investing pia mater on the surface of the brain by passing out through a cleft called the transverse fissure. Along each lateral margin the velum interpositum is Ijordered by the choroid plexus of the body of the lateral ventricle, which projects into the ventricular cavity from imder cover of the free lateral margin of the fornix. It should be borne in mind that the epithelial lining of the ventricle gives a complete covering to the choroid plexus. Posteriorly the choroid plexus is continuous with the similar structure in the descending horn of the ventricle, whilst in front it narrows greatly, and becomes continuous across the mesial plane with the corresponding plexus of the opposite side, behind the epithelial layer which lines the foramen of Monro. From this median junction two much smaller choroid plexuses run back- wards on the under surface Position of of the velum interpositum, and project downwards into the third ventricle. These are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The most conspicuous blood-vessels in the velum interpositum are the two veins of Galen, which run backwards, one on either side of the mesial plane. In front, each is formed at the apex of the fold by the union of the vein of the corpus striatum and a large vein issuing from the choroid plexus ; behind, they unite to form the vena magna Galeni, and this pours its blood into the anterior end of the straight sinus (Fig. 413, p. 557). The continuous cleft in tlie brain tlirougli wliicli the velum 1 intei'jjositum and tlie choroid plexuses of the two descending horns of the lateral ventricles are introduced into the interior of tlie brain is sometimes called the transverse fissure. It consists of an upper intermediate part and two lateral parts. The former passes forwards between the corpus callosum and the fornix above and the roof of the third ventricle and the ojjtic thalami below. It is limited on either side by the epithelial covering of the choroid plexuses which shuts out these structures from the cavity of the lateral ventricles. Tlie lateral part is the choroidal fissure. This is continuous with the intermediate part, and has already been described in connexion with the descending horn of the lateral ventricle (p. 535). Pia mater spinalis.—The pia mater of the cord is thicker and denser than that of the brain. This is largely due to the addition of an outside fibrous layer, in which the fibres run chiefly in the longitudinal direction. The pia mater is very firmly adherent to the surface of the cord, and in front it sends a fold into the antero-median fissure of the cord. The septum which occupies the poste;ro-median fissitre is likewise firmly attached to its deep surface. In front of the antero- median furrow of the cord the pia mater is thickened in the form of a longitudinal glistening band, termed the linea splendens, which runs along the whole length of the cord, and blends with the filum terminale below. The blood-vessels of the spinal cord lie between the two layers of the pia mater. The nerves which leave both the brain and cord receive closely-applied Titnia thalami Choroid plexus Vent. Ill Fig. 418.—Diage.'^mm.vtic Coronal Section through the optic thalami, and the parts in immediate relation to them. The inter- mediate part of the great transverse fissure holding the velum interpositum is seen, and also the maimer in which this fissure is shut out from the lateral ventricles by the epithelium which covers the choroid ple.xns on each side.