1046 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. small branches of these several arteries unite with one another in the muscular coat. It should be 'remarked that the superior haemorrhoidal artery supplies both the muscular and mucous coats above, whilst it is confined to the latter in the lower few inches of the gut, the muscular coats here being supplied by the middle and inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels. Veins of the Rectum and Anus.—These form two chief jilexuses of large vessels devoid of valves, namely, tlie internal lueinoi-rhoidal plexus situated in the submucous coat, and the external hfemorrhoidal plexus in the outer coat. The internal hsemorrhoidal plexus takes origin near the margin of the anus in a number of small (anal) veins, which are radially disposed beneath the skin of the anus, and communicate below with the rootlets of the inferior haemor- rhoidal vein over the external sphincter. These anal veins, traced upwards, join together, and are joined by others from the surrounding parts to form larger and often tortuous vessels, which ascend in the columns of Morgagni, where they frequently jjresent ampullary enlargements, varying in size up to that of a small pea, which are said to be the starting-points of htemorrhoids. Passing ujjwards, the veins are known as the "terminal veins" ; they communicate freely with one another, forming the plexus, and unite into still larger vessels, which pierce the muscular coat about the middle of the rectum, and join the two lu'anches of the superior luemorrhoidal vein. From the lower part of the internal luemorrlioidal plexus numerous vessels pass through the external sjihincter to join a venous network on the outer surface of that muscle, from which the inferior hsemorrhoidal veins arise. This network, as pointed out above, also com- municates with the internal luemorrhoidal plexus, through the anal veins whiph descend from the latter beneath the skin of the anal canal, to the exterior of the sphincter. The various veins which jiass out through the walls of the rectum unite freely on its exterior to form a rich venous jilexus (external hsemorrhoidal plexus), through which the three liaemorrhoidal vessels are brought into free communication with one another. Passing off from this plexus, the superior hsemorrhoidal vein joins the inferior mesenteric, which opens into the portal vein ; the middle luemorrlioidal joins the internal iliac, a tributary of the vena cava ; and the inferior luemorrhoidal joins the internal pudic, a tributary of the internal iliac. Thus, on the rectum, a free anastomosis is established between the veins of the portal and .systemic circulations. Lymphatics.—Most of the lymphatics of the rectum join a number (four or five) of rectal glands found in the connective tissue coat of the bowel along the superior liEemorrhoidal \eiii and its two branches, whence they pass to the sacral glands on the front of the sacrum. Some of those from the lower jiart of the anal canal join the cutaneous lymphatics round the anus, and jjass with them to the oblique set of superficial inguinal glands. A few of the lymphatics from the lower portion of the rectum are said (by Quenu) to join the internal iliac glands, but these are inconstant according to Gerota. Nerves.—The nerves of the rectum come partly from the sympathetic and partly from the cerebro-spinal system. The sympathetic fibres are derived on the one hand from the inferior mesenteric plexus, and on the other from the right and left divisions of the hypogastric plexus {i.e. the pelvic jjlexuses), the former accompanying the superior hsemorrhoidal, the latter the middle hfemorrhoidal vessels, to the rectuni. The cerebro-si^inal fibres arise from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves soon after these leave the sacral foramina (and constitute the " jjelvic splanchnics" of Gaskell). They run forward in the pelvic connective tissue, and joining the pelvic plexuses, reach the side of the rectum. Fibres of the inferior hsemorrhoidal branch of the internal pudic nerve (third and fourth sacral) are also distributed to the lower part of the anal canal as well as to the external sphincter. It has been shown by experiments on animals, that the cerebro-spinal nerves (from the second, third, and fourth sacral) convey motor impulses to the longitudinal fibres, but inhibitory impulses to the circular muscular fibres. In like manner the branches from the sympathetic convey motor fibres (derived from some of the lumbar rami communicantes) to the circular muscle, and inhibitory fibres to the longitudinal muscle of the rectum. The refiex centre which governs the action of the sphincters and the muscular fibres of the rectum (" defaication centre ") is situated in the lumbar region of the cord, and appears to be capable of carrying out the whole act of defaication even when separated from the brain. Variations.—^The best known anomalies found in connexion with the rectum are those classed under the term imperforate anus or atresia ani. The atresia may be simply due to a partial or comi^lete jjersistence of the anal membrane (see ji. 43), which separates the procto- d;eum from the hind-gut in the embryo (artresia ani simplex); or the hind-gut may be deficient in its lower part, when there is a considerable interval between the proctodiBum and the gut (defectus recti jjartialis, vel totalis); or the rectum may open into the vagina, the uterus, the bladder, or the ureters, when usually no anus is evident; or finally the cloaca may persist. Other forms are also described, but the foregoing are those most commonly foiind. For the development of the rectum and anus, see pp. 32 and 43. THE PERITONEUM. An introductory sketch of the peritoneum was given on p. 997; subsequently, when describing the abdominal viscera, an account of its detailed relations to each of these was included. We shall here consider the membrane and its folds as parts of one continuous wliule ; and we shall also describe its arrangement as seen