THE FRONTAL BONE. 101 constitute the external and internal angular processes respectively. The latter descend to a lower level than the former, and articulate with the lachrymal bones, being separated from each other by a rough articular surface—the nasal notch for the nasal and superior maxillary bones. The curve of the orbital margin varies in different individuals and races; towards its inner third it is crossed by a groove, not iinfrequently converted into a foramen—the supraorbital notch or foramen (incisura sive foramen supraorbitalis). Through this there pass the supraorbital nerve and artery. Above the supraorbital margin the character of the bone displays marked differences in the two sexes: in the male, above the interval between the two internal angular processes, there is usually a well-marked prominence, called the glabella, from this the fulness extends outwards above the orbital margin, varying in degree and extent, and forming the elevations known as the supraorbital or superciliary ridges (arcus superciliares). The prominence of these naturally reacts on tlie character of the supraorbital margins, which are thicker and more rounded in the male tlian in the female. Passing upwards over the glabella, the remains of the suture which originally separated the two halves of the frontal bone can usually be seen; above this point all trace of the suture is generally obliterated. Pacchionian Superior longitudinal For articulation with depression sinus and falx cerebri Fia. 78.—Frontal Bone as seen from Below. Extending upwards from the external angular process is a well-marked ridge, which curves upwards and slightly inwards, then turning backwards it arches across the lateral aspect of the bone. This is the temporal ridge or crest (linea tem- poralis), which serves to separate the anterior surface of the frontal portion of the bone from its temporal aspect. The latter (facies temporalis) forms the floor of the upper and anterior part of the temporal fossa, and serves for the attachment of the temporal muscle. The orbital part of the bone (pars orbitalis) consists of two transversely-curved plates, each having the form of a sextant; their inner edges, which are cellular, lie parallel to each other, and are separated in their posterior half by the ethmoidal notch (incisura ethmoidalis), in which the ethmoid bone is lodged. The edges of the notch on either side are grooved in front and behind by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina, which are completed when the ethmoid is in situ. The anterior transmits the internal branch of the nasal nerve and the anterior ethmoidal vessels ; the posterior, the posterior ethmoidal vessels. In front of the ethmoidal notch is the nasal notch, from the centre of which the nasal process projects downwards and for- wards to terminate in the nasal spine (spina nasalis), which lies between, and articu- lates with the nasal bones and perpendicular plate of the ethmoid. On either side of the root of this process the bone is grooved obliquely from above downwards and