817 THE FEMOEAL ARTEEY. (d) The perforating arteries (Fig. 575), including the terminal branch of the profunda, are four in number. They curve backwards and outwards round the posterior aspect of the femur, lying close to the bone, under well-marked tendinous arches, which interrupt the continuity of muscular attachments; their terminal branches enter the vastus ex- ternus and anastomose in its substance with each other, with the descending branch of the external circum- flex, with the anasto- motic, and with the superior external articular branch of the popliteal. The first perforating artery (a. perforaiis prima) pierces the in- sertions of the adductors brevis and magnus, and some of its branches anastomose beneath the gluteus maxinius with the sciatic, with the transverse branch of the internal circumflex, and with the transverse branch of the external circumflex, forming what is known as the crucial anastomosis. The second perforat- ing artery (a. perforans secunda) pierces the adductors brevis and magnus, and then passes between the gluteus maxinius and the short head of the biceps into the vastus externus. It anastomoses with its fellows above and below, and with the internal cir- cumflex and the upper muscular branches of the popliteal artery. The third (a. per- forans tertia) and fourth perforating arteries pass through the adductor magnus and the short head of the biceps into, the vastus externus. Their anastomoses are similar to those of the second perforating. A nutrient branch (a. nutricia femoris) to the femur is given off either from the second or third Gluteus maxiimis Great sciatic ligament Gluteus mediu.s Gluteus minimus Deep branch of gluteal artery Muscular branch of profunda artery Gracilis Popliteal artery Supeiior internal articular artery Seniitendinosus Gastrocnemius Muscular artery Pyriformis Obturator internus and gemelli Ascending branch of internal circumflex artery Quadratus femoris Transverse branch of internal circumflex artery 1st perforating artery 2nd perforating artery 3rd perforating artery Termination of profunda artery (4th perforating) —Short head of biceps Long head of biceps Popliteal vein Superior external articular artery Gastrocnemius Fig. 575.—The Arteries of the Buttock and the Back of the Thigh aud Knee. perforating artery, usually the former ; an additional nutrient branch may also be supplied by the first or fourth perforating arteries. (5) The anastomotic (a. genu suprema) arises near the termination of the femoral artery in the lower part of Hunter's canal, and divides almost immediately into a superficial and a deep .branch; indeed, very frequently the two branches arise separately from the femoral trunk