1003 THE STOMACH. The distance in a direct line from the cardiac to the pyloric orifice varies from 3 to 5 inches (T\"j to l-I-'j cm.), and that from the cardia to the snmmit of the fundus from 2i to 4 inches {6-2 to 10-0 cm.). As regards the vmyltt, I have found the average of twelve wet sjaecimeus freed from theii' omenta to he 4| oz.'('l35 grms.), with a maximum of 7 oz. (198-45 grms.) and a minimuni of 3i oz. (99-22 grms.) " ^ ■ ■ - Glendenning gives the Aveight as 4^ ounces. Relations and Connexions of the Stomach.—The relations will Ije nmch more readily uiiderstood if we brietiv cousider the disposition of the portion of the abdoniinal cavity in whicli the stomacli lies, a portion which has such con- stant and definite "surroundings tliat it perhaps merits the title of "stomach chamber." The stomach chamber (Figs. 676 and 677) is a space iu the upper and left portion of tlie alxlominal ra\ ity wliich is (■i)m])letely occupied hj the stomach when that organ is distended, liut into which the trans\-erse colon also pas.ses, doubling up over the stomach, when this latter is emjity. The chandler jiresents an arched roof, an irregularly slojiing floor, and an anterior wall. The roof is f(irme<l ]iartly l>y the visceral surface of the left lohe of the liver, and in the rest of its exlent ]iy tlie left cu])ola of the (liaiiliiiiniii, which arches Left cupola of diaphragm Uuodeuuiii The Stomach Chamber and Stomach Bed. P'l-oin the same body as the preceding flgiu'e, after the .stomach had been removed. al >d< lal wall, between the ribs on the left and the giadually downwards hehind and on the left to meet tlie Hoor. The floor or ''sftnuai'h bed' fFig. 676) is a shijiing shell' on which the under surface <if the stomach rests, and hy which it is su]i]iorted. The lied is formed liehind liy the top of the left kidney (with its su]irai-enal capsule) and the gastric surface of the sjileen ; in front of this, hy the wide u]iper surface of the ]iancreas ; and nioi-e anteiidi ly still, liy the trans- \ eise iiicsdciilini I'unning for- waids ali<ive the small intestine, ii-oni the anterior edge of the panci-eas to the c.ildu (Fig. 676), which lattei- (-(impletes the floor antci-i(irly. Finally, the wnfi'rior mill (if the stomach chamlier is formed liy the livei- iin tlie right side. This eliaiiilier is completely tilled liy the stomach, wlu'ii that organ is distended. When, on the other hand, the stuiiiach is empty and contracted, it still rests on the floor, or stomach hed, liut occupies (inly the lower jiortion of the chamlier, whilst the i-est of the sjiace is filled liy the transverse c<il(iii, which turns gradually upwards as the stomach retracts, and finally comes to lie both above and in front of that organ and immecUately beneath the diajiliragm—a fact to be remeiiibereil in clinical examinations of this region. The upper (or parietal) surface of the stomach is more convex and more extensive than the hiwer. It lies, when tlie organ is distended, in contact with the roof and anterior wall of the stomach chandier, and thus conies into relation with the under surface of the left lolie of the liver on tlie riglit, the vault of the diaphragm on the left, and the anterior alidoininal wall in front (Fig. 670). When the stoma,ch is empty, on the other hand, the transverse colon, as just explained, douliles up over it, and sejiarates this surface from the roof of the chamlier. The lower (or visceral) surface, more flattened than the upper, rests upon the stomach lied, and comes into relation with the following parts:—Behind, at the fundus, witli the diaphragm and gastric surface of the spleen; in front of this with the left kidney, the suprarenal, and the upper surface of the pancreas, and, more anteriorl}" still, with the transverse mesocolon and colon. From all of these the stomach is separated by the small sac of the peritoneum (the anterior layer of which clothes tliis surface), except belovy and to the left of the cardia, where the