8 GENEEAL EMBEYOLOGY. The majority of the " segmentation masses" or cells, Llastomeres, as they are termed, are differentiated into tissue elements, but a certain number retain the characters of the original germ-cells and become ova or sperm-cells, which form the "points of departure" of succeeding generations. Every germ-cell is derived, therefore, " by a continuous and unbroken series of cell divisions " which have ex- tended through the past, from the most primitive ancestor, and it forms a point from which, under ordinary circumstances, all future generations will commence. It is in this sense that the changes through which a living being passes in the course of its life " may, in their completest form, be considered as constituting a morphological cycle, beginning with the ovum and ending with the ovum again." To follow these changes it is necessary that the characters and capabilities of the constructive elements should be clearly understood. The animal cell, which plays an all-important part in the life-history of the individual, and the modified germ-cells must be carefully studied, and as far as possible the exact nature of their constituent parts ascertained. Tlie phenomena of impregnation and segmentation, and the subsequent develop- mental processes and morphological changes which result in the formation of the embryo, and, finally, the arrangements for the nutrition and protection of the ovum during its intrauterine existence, will then be considered. THE ANIMAL CELL. Cells ai'e the structural units of the body. Each cell has an individual life- history within the tissue or organ to which it belongs, it is produced by a pre- existing cell, it develops and grows, is modified by circumstances, reproduces otlier cells similar to itself, and dies. A cell possesses a body and a nucleus. An external investing membrajie or cell wall may or may not be differentiated. The cell body consists of proto- plasm—=an unstable, highly complex organic substance, tlie constitution of which is approximately repre- Nucleohi Nucleus Spongioplasni (cyto-reticuluiii) Uyaloplasm Attraction sphere Ceiitrosoine Fio. 2.—Diagram of an Animal Cell. sented by the formula CgoHjQgNjgC.jQ. It is colourless, semi-fiuid, viscous, insoluble in water, capable of osmosis, and it is contractile and irritable. In the living condition it always contains a certain amount of water and various inorganic matters. It is to be observed, how- ever, that there are many varieties of protoplasm, differing somewhat in nature and qualities. The protoplasm of the cell body is called cytoplasm. Under low powers of the microscope it is homogeneous or slightly granular, but witli higher magnification, and especially after the application of staining agents, it is possible to distinguisli— (1) A highly refractile, elastic, and extensile network—the csrto-reticulum or spongioplasm—the meshes of which are filled with (2) A clear, semi-fluid substance—the cytolsnnph or hyaloplasm. The fibres of the reticulum present some few minute rounded bodies of doubtful nature, which are termed microsomes. The nucleus is a spherical vesicle embedded in the cell body. It is surrounded by a distinct nuclear membrane, and usually contains nucleoli. It consists of modified protoplasm, which is termed karyoplasm, the precise rela- tion of which to the cytoplasm is not clear. Structurally it resembles cytoi)lasm in that it })resents a fine reticulum, the fibres of which seem to be continuous with the cyto-reticulum through the nuclear membrane, whilst its meshes are occupied by nuclear juice. The reticulum forms a fine network composed of linin fibres (achromatic