COMPONENT PAETS OF WHITE MATTER OF SPINAL CORD. 433 fibres entering from the series of posterior nerve-roots is not nearly so complete as in the case of the monkey. Numerous collateral fibrils stream into the gray matter of the posterior horn both from the ascending and descending branches of the entering fibres of the posterior nerve- roots. These are classified into long and short collaterals. The long collaterals extend forward into the anterior horn of gray matter and end in relation to the ventral nerve- cells. The short collaterals end in relation to the nerve-cells in the substantia Eolandi, the nerve-cells of Clarke's column, and the other nerve-cells of the posterior horn (Fig, 320, p. 426). Tract of Lissauer.—This is a small tract, of nerve-fibres of minute calibre which assume their medullary sheaths at a comparatively late period. It is placed at the surface of the cord close to the postero-lateral furrow. It is formed by some of the outer fibres of the posterior nerve-roots, which do not enter the tract of Burdach, and which pass upwards in the cord close to the substantia gelatinosa Rolandi, in which they ultimately end. Association Fibres in the Posterior Column.—But the whole of the fibres of the posterior column are not derived from the posterior nerve-roots. A few fibres exist in this column which have a diff'erent origin. In all probability they are derived from some of the cells of the gray matter of the cord, and pass upwards or downwards in the posterior column for a varying distance before they finally turn in to end in the gray matter at a higher or a lower level. These fibres, therefore, constitute links of con- nexion between different cord segments, and thus they are termed association or longi- tudinal commissural fibres. Our information regarding these fibi'es at present is some- what defective ; but it may be mentioned*that it is probable that the "comma" tract of Schultze, in the deeper part of the posterior column, and the descending septo-marginal tract of Bruce, placed nearer the surface, belong mainly to this category. Lateral Column of the Cord.—-In the lateral column of the cord the v^^ell- established tracts are :— 1. The direct cerebellar tract. 2. The tract of Cowers. 3. The crossed pyramidal tract. The remainder of the column goes under the name of the lateral basis-bundle. The direct cerebellar tract (fasciculus cerebello-spinalis) is a band-like strand vi^liich lies in relation to the surface of the cord immediately in front of the postero-lateral groove. It is an ascend- ing tract and is com- posed for the most part of coarse large nerve- fibres, which are de- rived from the nerve- cells of the posterior vesicular column (Clarke's column) in the posterior horn of gray matter. It is, therefore, not found through the whole length of the cord. It first appears in the lower part of the dorsal region; and as it ascends it gradually increases in size as it is joined by the axons of the cells of Clarke's column, which , lie at higher levels. It finally enters the medulla oblongata, and through this proceeds to the cerebellum, in which it ends. ^ Gowers's tract (fasciculus antero-lateralis superficialis) lies in front of the direct 28 Fig. 322.—Diagrammatic Representation of a Transverse Section THROUGH the SpINAL CoED. The iierve tracts in the white matter and the clusters of nerve-cells in the gray matter are shown.