THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. 397 muscular fibres on the left side). By its lateral margins the diaphragm is in contact with the thoracic wall beyond the reflection of the pleura, and behind with the oesophagus and descending thoracic aorta. The under surface of the diaphragm is concave, and is for the most part invested by peritoneum. It is in relation with the liver, stomach, spleen, kidneys, suprarenal bodies, duodenum and pancreas, the inferior vena cava, and the branches of the coeliac axis. Its vault is higher on the right side than on the left, owing to the upward projection of the liver on that side. The diaphragm is found as a complete septum between the tliorax and abdomen only in mammals. It is occasionally deficient in the human subject, producing hernia of the diaphragm, either into the pericardial cavity through the central tendon, or iiito the thoracic cavity through the lateral portions of the muscle. A rare condition is congenital deficiency of a part of the lateral half of the muscle, generally placed posteriorly, and on the left side. This produces, by continuity of the peritoneum and pleura behind the diaphragm, a congenital diaphragmatic hernia. Nerve Supply. The intercostal muscles, levatores costarum, infra-costal muscles, and triangularis sterni, are all supplied by the anterior primary divisions of the intercostal nerves. The diaphragm receives its chief, if not its entire, motor supply from the phrenic nerves (C. 3. 4. 5.). It is innervated also by the diaphragmatic plexus of the sympathetic, and is said to receive fibres from the- lower intercostal nerves. Actions. The act of respiration consists of two opposite movements, inspiration and expiration. 1. The movement of expiration is performed by (1) the elasticity of the lungs, (2) the weight of the chest walls, (3) the elevation of the diaphragm, (4) the action of muscles—triangularis sterni and muscles of the abdominal wall. It is sometimes stated that the interosseous fibres of the internal intercostal muscles are depressors of the ribs. 2. The movement of inspiration (the elevation and forward movement of the sternum, and the elevation and eversion of the ribs) produces enlargement of the thoracic cavity antero- posteriorly and transversely. Its vertical diameter is increased by the descent of the diaphragm. The muscles of inspiration are divided into two series—ordinary and accessory. a. Ordinary Muscles. h. Extraordinary and Accessory Muscles. Diaphragm Intercostals Scaleni Serrati postici Levatores costarum Quadratus lumljorum Pectorales Serratus magnus Sterno-mastoid Latissimus dorsi Infra-hyoid muscles Extensors of the sj^ine Of the ordinary muscles, the diajjhragm is the most important. Its action is twofold- centrifugal, elevating the ribs and increasing the transverse and antero-posterior diameters of the thorax, and centripetal, drawing downwards the central tendon and increasing tlie vertical diameter of the thorax. Of the two movements the former is the more imj)ortant. There has been considerable diversity of opinion regarding the action of the intercostal muscles. It is generally agreed that the external muscles elevate the ribs; it is probable that the whole of each internal muscle acts in the same way, although it has been stated by different observers that the whole internal muscle is a depressor; or that the interosseous part is a depressor, the inter- chondral ^Jortion of the muscle an elevator of the ribs. FASCI.^ AND MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. The space between the margins of the bony thorax and the pelvis is filled up by a series of muscles, covered externally and internally by fasciee. The-muscles are in three series—anterior, lateral, and posterior. The anterior muscles are the pyramidalis and rectus abdominis; the lateral muscles are the obliqui, externus and internus, and the transversalis abdominis ; the posterior muscles are the quadratus lumborum, and the psoas (magnus and parvus) and iliacus (described already). 1