V 928 THE EESPIKATOKY SYSTEM. Right subclavian artery Right innominate vein Innominate artery Sulcus subclarius The cervical cul de sac of pleura is strengthened and held in place by an aponeurotic expansion, first described by Sibson, which is spread over it, and is attached to the inner concave margin of the first rib. This fascia is derived from a small muscular slip which Right vagus nerve Tracliea (Esophagus I.eft subclavian arterv takes Origin from the transverse pro- cess of the seven til cervical vertebra. Left vagus nerve Left common J^l^G COStal iirotidartery pleura is the, Leftinno- strongest ami thickest part of the parietal pleura. It lines the deep surface of the costal arches and of the iutervenino- in- tercostal muscles. In front it reaches the back of the sternum, whilst l)ehind it is carried forwards on the bodies of the vertebrae. It is easily detached from the parts which it covers, except as it passes from the heads of the ribs on to the vertebral column. Here it is somewhat tightly bound down. The diaphragm- atic pleura covers the portion of the upper surface of the diaphragm which lies to the outer side of the base of the peri- DlSSEC'TION OF A SUBJECT HARDENED BY FoRlIALIX-INJECTIOX, tO sllOW the Cardiuni, but it The anterior and doeS notdipdown to the l)ottom of the narrow in- terval between the thoracic wall and the diaphragm. In other words, a strip of the upper surface of the diaphragm adjoining its costal attachment is left uncovered. The mediastinal pleura exteiids backwards from the posterior surface of the anterior thoracic wall to the vertebral column, and it clothes the side of the mediastinum or partition intervening between the two pleural cavities. It is continuous with the pleura costalis of its own side, I)oth in front and liehind, along two lines which are respectively termed the anterior and posterior lines of pleural reflection ; whilst Vielow it becomes continuous witli the diaphragmatic pleura of its own side at the base of the pericardium. Above the level of the root of the lung the mediastinal pleura passes directly backwards from the sternum to the vertebral column. In this region the left Fio. 628. relations of the two pleural sacs as viewed from the front, diaphragmatic lines of pleural reflection are exhibited by black dotted lines, whilst the outlines of the lungs and their fissures are indicated by the blue lines.