356 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. a strong tendon which passes over the dorsum of the foot, to be inserted into the internal cuneiform and the base of the first metatarsal bone. The muscle is superficially placed along the outer side and front of the tibia, internal to the long extensors of the toes and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. Its tendon occupies special compartments beneath both upper and lower parts' of the anterior annular ligament, enclosed in a separate synovial sac. The tibio-fascialis anticus is a separated jjortion of the muscle occasionally present, inserted into tlie fascia on the dorsnni of the foot. The extensor longus digitorum arises from the outer side of the external tuberosity of the tibia, from the upper two-thirds or more of the anterior surface of the fibula, from the fascia over it, and from intermuscular septa on either side. It gives rise to a tendon which passes beneath the anterior annular ligament, and in front of the ankle divides into four tendons, inserted into the four outer toes, exactly in the same way as the corresponding tendons in the hand (see p. 330). They form membranous expansions on the dorsum of the first phalanx, joined by the tendons of the extensor brevis digitorum, lumbricales, and interossei, which separate into one central and two lateral slips, attached respectively to the middle and terminal phalanges. The muscle is superficial, and is placed external to the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius hallucis, and internal to the peronei muscles. The musculo-cutaneous nerve is on its outer side. It conceals the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. The tendon occupies a separate compartment along with the peroneus tertius beneath the lower part of the anterior annular ligament, invested by a special synovial membrane. The peroneus tertius is a separated por- tion of the extensor longus digitorum. It is an essentially human muscle. It arises (in- separably from the extensor longus digitorum) from the anterior surface of the fibula, and from the intermuscular septum external to it. The tendon of the muscle is inserted into the dorsal aspect of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. It accompanies the extensor longus digitorum beneath the anterior annular liga- ment, and lies external to that muscle on the dorsum of the foot. The extensor proprius hallucis muscle (m. extensor hallucis longus) arises from the front of the fibula in its middle three-fifths, and for a corresponding. extent from the interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes over the dorsum of the foot, to be inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx of the great toe. In the leg the muscle is deeply placed between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum. It conceals the anterior tibial vessels and nerve, and crosses the termination of the anterior tibial artery in front of the ankle joint. It is invested by a special synovial sac as it lies beneath the Peroneus bre Lower jiortion anterior annul ligament Tendon of peroneus TERTIUS Innermost slip EXTENSOR bre DiaiTOR Fig. 261.—Muscles of the Front of the Right Leg and Dorsum of the Foot.