435 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SPINAL COED. From this crossing of the pyramidal tracts, it results that the destruction of the fibres which compose them as they descend in one side of the brain must result in paralysis of the miLScles supplied by the efferent nerves of the opposite side of the cord. It is well to note that the fibres of both pyramidal tracts are not meduUated until the time of birth. They are the latest of all the cord-tracts to myelinate. The anterior basis-bundle (fasciculus anterior proprius), like the lateral basis- bundle, is composed largely of fibres which arise from the cells of the gray matter of the cord, and act the part of intersegmental association fibres. Summary of the Constitution of the White Matter of the Cord.—The white columns of the cord are formed of two" kinds of nerve-fibres:— 1. Those which enter the cord from without. 2. Those which take their origin from the cells within the gray matter of the cord itself. Under the first category we include (a) the greater part of the fibres of the posterior column (columns of Burdach and Goll), which arise from the cells of the spinal ganglia, and which enter the cord as the posterior nerve-roots; and (b) the crossed and direct pyramidal tracts which come from the motor cells of the cerebral cortex. The fibres which arise within the gray matter of the cord may be classified thus: (a) Fibres which pass out from the cord as efferent nerves (anterior nerve- roots) ; (&) fibres which form long tracts and pass up the cord to enter the brain (direct cerebellar tract and the tract of Gowers); (c) fibres which form short tracts, "linking together different segments of the cord (intersegmental association fibres in each of the three columns of the cord). Anterior White Commissure.—The anterior commissure is composed of niedullated nerve-fibres passing from one side of the cord to the other and entering the anterior horn of gray matter, and also the anterior column. It is to be regarded more as a decussation than as a commissure, and its width, which varies somewhat in different regions, fluctuates in correspondence with the diameter of the cord. Amongst the fibres which cross in the anterior commissure may be mentioned : (1) The fibres of the direct pyramidal tract; (2) collaterals from both the ventral and lateral columns ; (3) axons of many of the cells of the gray matter ; (4) the dendritic processes of some of the mesial ventral cells. Posterior Gray Commissure.—Although this is composed of gray matter with a large admixture of neuroglia, numerous transverse nerve-fibres pass through it, so as to bind the cells of one side of the cord to those of the other. Development of the Spinal Cord. In the chapter upon General Embryology it has been pointed out (p. 19) that the brain and cord first take shape in the form of a tube of ectoderm, which receives the name of the neural tube. Three expansions, placed one behind the other at the cephalic end of the tube, represent the early brain ; whilst behind these primitive cerebral vesicles comes the elongated narrower part of the tube, which at this stage represents the spinal cord. By a developmental process, which we now have to study, the walls of this portion of the neural canal give rise to the various elements which build up the substance of the cord, whilst a portion at least of the primitive cavity is preserved as the central canal of the cord. The account which is here given of the development of the cord is taken almost entirely from the writings of Professor His of Leipzig. When first formed, the neural tube is compressed from side to side and presents an oval outline in transverse section (Fig. 14, p. 20). The two lateral walls are very thick, whilst the narrow dorsal and ventral portions of the wall are thin, and are termed the mid-dorsal and mid-ventral laminae. The cavity of the tube in transverse section appears as a narrow slit. At this stage the wall of the neural tube is formed of a series of elongated neuro-epithelial columnar cells, closely applied to each other and extending throughout the whole thickness of the wall. The inner ends of these long columnar cells unite to form a delicate membrane termed the internal limiting membrane, which lines the lumen of the tube, whilst their outer ends present a similar relation to an external limiting membrane, which invests the outer surface of the tube. The name of spongioblasts is given to these cells, and they soon develop in such a manner as to form the sustentacular framework of the growing cord. Between their inner parts, immediately subjacent to the internal