THE OKGANS OF SENSE. 708 tympanic cavity, to end at the stylo-mastoid foramen. (4) The processus cochleari- formis, or septum canalis musculo-tubarii. This process extends backwards, above the anterior end of the fenestra ovalis, where it makes a sharp outward curve and forms a pulley, over which the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle plays. (5) A funnel-shaped recess, the fossula fenestrse cochleae, which is situated behind and below the promontory and almost hidden by its overhanging edge. It leads for- wards, upwards, and inwards to an irregularly-oval opening, termed the fenestra rotunda seu cochlese, which in the macerated bone communicates with the cochlea, but in the recent state is closed by a membrane, the membrana tympani secundaria. This membrane appears angularly bent along a line joining its antero-inferior two- thirds with the postero-superior third. It consists of three layers: (a) external, continuous with the mucous lining of the tympanum and containing a network of capillaries; (J) middle, or substantia propria, the fibres of which radiate chiefly towards the periphery of the membrane—some branched, dendritic fibres are also present; (c) internal, continuous with the epithelial lining of the labyrinth. (6) Between the fenestra ovalis above and the fossula rotunda below is a small circular depression, the sinus tympani, perforated by one or two minute foramina for l)lood-vessels, whilst immediately internal to it is the ampullated extremity of the posterior semicircular canal. Mastoid Antrum and Mastoid Air-cells. The mastoid antrum (antrum mastoideum seu tympanicum) is seen in the tem- poral bone at birth as a cavity, having a vertical measurement of 7-9 mm. and a transverse of 9-11 mm., and is nearly as large in the newly-born child as in the adult. Hoofed in by the tegmen tympani, its floor and inner wall are formed by the petro-mastoid, while externally it is closed by the junction of the thin outer part of the squama with the pars mastoidea. At birth its outer wall has a thick- ness of only 1-2 mm., but by the ninth year this has increased to about 10 mm. Coincident with the growth of the mastoid process the mastoid air-cells are de- veloped downwards and backwards as diverticula from the antrum, and present the greatest possible variations in different skulls. They may be large, compara- tively few in number, and involve the whole process, in which case the compact bone which surrounds them is extremely thin and the innermost cells are only separated by a transparent lamella from the lateral sinus. In other cases the cells may be small and numerous, only invading a portion of the process, the remainder consisting of diploetic tissue. No definite conclusion can be come to as to their condition by external percussion or examination. A solid process is occa- sionally seen. The air-cells are not limited to the mastoid process, but extend forwards over the roof of the meatus, upwards towards the squama, and inwards towards the temporo-occipital suture, whilst in a few cases-they are seen to invade the j)firs jugularis of the occipital bone. They are lined by thin mucous membrane continuous with that of the tympanum ; the deep surface of the mucous membrane is firmly fixed to the periosteum, while its free surface is covered by a layer of flattened, non-ciliated epithelium. Eustachian Tube. The Eustachian tube (tuba auditiva Eustachii) leads from the tympanic cavity to the naso-pharynx and transmits air to the former, in order that the pressure on the inner and outer surfaces of the membrana tympani may be equalised ; it may also serve to convey mucous secretion away from the tympanic cavity. Its outer extremity, the ostium tympanicum tubse auditivse (Fig. 515), opens into the anterior part of the tympanic cavity Ijelow the canal for the tensor r tympani muscle. Directed downwards and inwards, the tube ends on the upper part of the naso- pharynx by a wide orifice, the ostium pharyngeum tubae auditivse (Fig. 490). It measures about an inch and a half (36 mm.) in length, and forms with the hori- zontal plane an angle of 30'' to 40^ with the sagittal plane an angle of about 45°, and with the bony part of the external meatus one of 135° to 140°. It consists of two portions: (a) an antero-internal, fibro-cartilaginous part, the pars cartilaginea tubse