120 OSTEOLOGY. the lesser wings, and terminates anteriorly in a ragged edge, which articulates with the criljriform plate of tlie ethmoid, and has often projecting from it, mesially, a pointed process, the ethmoidal spine. The lateral aspects of the body are fused with the great wings, and in part also with the roots of the pterygoid processes. Curving along the side of the body, superior to its attachment to the great wing, is an Z'-shaped groove, the carotid groove (sulcus caroticus), whicli marks the position and course of the internal carotid artery. Posteriorly, tlie hinder margin of this groove, formed by the salient outer edge of the posterior suiface of the body, articulates with the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and is lience called the petrosal process ; just above this, on the lateral border of the dorsum sellce, there is often a groove for the sixth nerve. The anterior surface of the body displays a vertical mesial sphenoidal crest (crista splienoidalis), continuous above with the ethmoidal spine, and lielow with the pointed projection called the rostrum. Tliis crest articulates in front witli the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid. On either side of the middle line are seen the irregular openings leading into the sphenoidal air sinuses, the thin anterior walls of wliich are in part formed by the absorption''of the sphenoidal turbinated bones with whicli in early life they are in contact. With the exception of a broad groove leading downwards from the apertures above mentioned, which enters into the formation of the roof of the nasal fossa of the corresponding side, the lateral aspects of this surface of the bone are elsewliere in articulation with the lateral masses of the ethmoid and the orbital processes of the palate bones. The rostrum is continued mesially for some distance along the inferior surface of the body, where it forms a prominent keel which fits into the recess formed by the ahe of the vomer. The edges of the latter serve to separate the rostrum from the incurved vaginal processes at the roots of the internal pterygoid plates. Posteriorly the under surface of the body of the sphenoid is rouglier, and covered by the mucous membrane of the roof of the pharynx; here, occasionally, a median depression may be seen wliich marks the position of the inferior extremity of a fcxital channel, called the canalis cranio-pharyngeus. The lesser or orbital wings (al;ie parvte) are two flattened triangular plates of bone which project forwards and outwards from tlie fore and upper part of the body of the bone, with which they are united by two roots, enclosing between them the optic foramina (foramina optica) for the transmission of the optic nerves and ophthalmic arteries. Of these roots, the posterior springs from the body just wide of the olivary eminence, separating the carotid groove behind from the optic foramen in front; externally this root is confluent with the recurved posterior angle of the lesser wing, which here forms the projection known as the anterior clinoid process (processus clinoideus anterior), which overhangs the fore part of the body of the bone. The anterior root, broad and compressed, unites the upper surface of the lesser wing with the fore and upper part of the body. Externally the outer angle terminates in a pointed process which reaches the region of the pterion and there articulates with the frontal, and may come in contact with the great wing. The superior aspect is smooth, and forms in part the floor of the anterior cranial fossa. The inferior surface forms part of the posterior portion of the upper wall of the orbit, and also serves to roof in the sphenoidal fissure which separates the lesser from the greater wings below. The anterior edge is lagged and irregular, and articulates with tlie orbital plates of the frontal. The posterior margin, sharp and sickle-shaped, separates the anterior from the middle cranial fossa, and corresponds to the position of the Sylvian fissure on the surface of the cerebrum. Tlie greater or temporal wings (ala^ magnte), as seen from above, are of a somewhat creseentic form. If the inner convex edge of the crescent be divided into fifths, the posterior fifth extends backwards and outwards beyond the body of the bone, presenting a free posterior edge, which forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum medium. This border ends behind in the horn of the crescent, from which a pointed process projects downwards, called the alar or sphenoidal spine (spina angularis), which is wedged into the angle between the petrous and squamous parts of the temporal bone. The inner surface of the posterior border and s})ine is furrowed for the cartilaginous Eustachian tube (sulcus tubai), whilst on the inner