298 THE ARTICULATIONS OR JOINTS. fibula, whereas in dorsiflexion, as in raising the fore part of the foot from the ground, the widest part of the astragahis is forced back between the tibia and fibula ; but notwithstanding the dif- ference between these two movements, the filnda remains in close contact with tlie astragalus by reason of the action of the transverse inferior fibro-fibular ligament and the posterior talo-fibular ligament, so that lateral movement is prevented. It i.s doubtful whether lateral movement at the ankle-joint can be obtained by any natural movement of the foot, although it is generally believed that in the position of partial extension a small amount of lateral movement may be produced by the application of external force. " This apparent play " of the ankle-joint during extension "is really due to oscillati(m of the small bones of the foot on each other, largely of the scaphoid on the astragalus, but also of the cuboid on the calcaneum. Excessive mobility of these latter is restrained by an important function of the posterior tubercle of the cuboid which locks into a notch in the os calcis" (Blake). INTERTARSAL JOINTS. These joints (articulatioues intertarsese) are all diarthroses in which the gliding movement is characteristic, as in the carpus. With the view of obtaining a proper con- ception of the many I teautiful mechanical principles involved in the construction of the foot, it is necessary to study these articulations with considerable attention to detail. Articulatio Talo-calcanea.—The astragalus and os calcis articulate with each other in the articulatio talo-calcanea. This joint is situated between the inferior facet on the body of the astragalus and a corresponding facet on the upper aspect of the hinder part of the os calcis. On each bone the articulation is limited in front by a wide deep groove which runs obliquely across each bone from within outwards and forwards. The supporting and investing ligaments form a capsule, consisting for the most part of short fibres, but the joint derives additional strength from the external and Anterior ligament of ankl" Calcaneo-scaphoid ligament Dorsal scapho-cuboid ligaments Dorsal scapho-cuneiform ligaments Dorsal intercuneiform ligaments \^ Dorsal cubo-cimeiform ligament \ Dorsal tarso-nietatarsal ligaments Dorsal inter- metatarsal ligaments Ant. inf. tibio-tibular ligament Post. inf. tibio-fibular ligament Ant. fasciculus of ext. lat. ligament Middle fasciculus of ext. lat. ligament Internal calcaneo-cuboid ligamentv Dorsal calcaneo-cuboid ligament. Inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament- External calcaneo-cuboid ligament. Ant. calcaneo-astragaloiil ligament Interosseous calcaneo- astragaloid ligament Ext. calcaneo-astragaloid ligament Fig. 229.—Ligaments on Outer Aspect of Ankle and on Dorsum and Outer Aspects of Foot. internal lateral ligaments of the ankle-joint. The capsule is subdivided into the following astragalo-calcaneal or talo-calcaneal bands :— The anterior talo-calcaneal ligament (Fig. 229) consists of a band of short fibres placed immediately in relation to the anterior end of the deep groove which bounds the articular facets. They are attached to the antero-external aspect of the neck of the astragalus, from which they extend downwards to the adjacent superior surface of the os calcis. The external talo-calcaneal ligament (Fig. 229) is in continuity with the hinder border of the preceding ligament, and it is placed parallel to, but on a deeper plane than, the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle- joint. It consists of short fibres passing between the adjacent rough outer margins of the two bones. The posterior talo-calcaneal ligament (Fig. 229) closes the joint cavity on its posterior aspect. It consists of fibres which radiate from the posterior aspect of