THE PARIETAL BONES. 103 sinus is so large, and extends so far.back, that tlie optic nerve is carried through it m a bony tube. Another point of some practical importance is that the sinuses are hardly ever sym- metrical. It is rare to meet with cases of their complete absence, although sometimes the sinus on one or other side may be wanting. . The external angular process, from the arrangement of its surfaces and the density ot its structure, is particularly well adapted to resist the pressure to which it is subjected when the jaws are firmly closed. Variations.—That most frequently met with is a persistence of the suture which unites the t^^•o halves of the bone in the infantile condition : skulls displaying this peculiarity are termed metopic. The researches of various observers—Broca, Ranke, Gruber, Manouvrier, Anoutchine, and Papillault {Rev. mens, de I'ecole d'Anthropol. de Paris, anm^e 6, n. 3)—point to the more frec[uent occurrence of this metopic suture in the higher than in the lower races of man; and Calmette asserts its greater frequence in the brachycephalic than the dolichocephalic type. Separate ossicles (Wormian bones) mav occur in the region of the anterior fontanelle. The fusion of these with one or other half of the frontal explains how the metopic suture is not always in line with the sagittal suture (Stieda, Anat. Anz. 1897, p. 227); they occasionally persist, however, and form by their coalescence a bregmatic bone (G. Zoja, Bull. Scientifico, xvii. p. 76, Pavia). Turner (Challenger Reports, part xxix.) records an instance of direct articulation of the frontal with the orljital plate of the superior maxilla in a Bush skull, and other examples of the same anomaly, which obtains normally in the skulls of the chimpanzee and gorilla, have been observed (Joarn. Aiiat. and Physiol, vol. xxiv. p. 349). Ossification.—Ossification begins in membrane from two centres, which appear about the sixth or seventh week, one on either side immediately above the orbital margin. By extension inwards and backwards from these the orbital plates are formed. Serres, Rambaud, and Renault and v. Ihering describe the occurrence of three pairs of secondary centres somewhat later: one pair for the nasal spine on either side of the foramen ceecum ; a centre on either side in corre- spondence with the position of each trochlear fossa; and a centre for each external angular process. Fusion between these secondary and the primary centres is usually complete about the sixth or seventh month of foetal life. At birth the two symmetrical halves of the bone are separated by the metopic suture, obliteration of which gradually takes place, so that about the fifth or sixth year it is more or less completely closed, traces only of the suture being left above and below. In about eight per cent of Europeans, however, the suture persists in the adult (see ante). At birth the supraorbital notches lie near the middle of the supraosbital arches. Traces of the frontal sinuses may be met with about the second year, but it is only about the age of seven that they can be definitely recognised. From that time they increase in size till the age of puberty, subsequent to which time they attain their maximum development. FiG. 79.—Ossification of Frontal Bone. ft, Metopic suture still open, b. Position of primary centre, c, Centre for external angular process, d, Centre for region of troclilea. e, Centres for nasal spine. The Paeietal Bones. The parietal bones (ossa parietalia), two in number, are placed on either side of the vault of the cranium, articulating with the frontal anteriorly, the occipital posteriorly, and the temporals and sphenoid inferiorly. Each bone possesses an external and internal surface, four borders, and four angles. The external surface, convex from above downwards and from before backwards, displays towards its centre a more or less pronounced elevation, the parietal eminence (tuber parietale). This marks the position of the primitive ossific centre, and not unfrequently corresponds to the point of maximum width of the head. At a variable distance from the lower border of the bone, and more or less parallel to it, two curved lines can usually be distinguished; these together constitute the temporal crest. The superior temporal line (linea temporalis superior) serves for the attachment of the temporal fascia; the inferior temporal line (linea temporalis inferior) defines the attachment of the temporal muscle, the extent and development of which necessarily determines the position of the crest. The surface below the crest enters into the formation of the floor of the temporal fossa, and is called the planum temporale; it