THE KNEE-JOINT. 291 the tibia above the groove for the semi-membranosus tendon. The long or anterior portion inclines somewhat forwards, and descending superficially to the tendon of the semi-membranosus, it is continued downwards, to be attached to the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia below the level of the anterior tuberosity. On its superficial aspect the internal lateral ligament is augmented by prolonga- tions from the tendons of the semi-membranosus and sartorius muscles, but is: separated by a bursa from the tendons of gracilis, semi-tendinosus and sartorius. Its deep surface is adherent to the convex edge of the internal semilunar cartilage, but lower down the inferior internal articular vessels inter- vene between the ligament and the shaft of the tibia. Th^xternal lateral ligament (lig. colluterale libulare, Fig. 223), sometimes called the ligamentum laterale externum longum, is a distinct rounded band which is under cover of the ordinary capsule, and yet well separated from the joint- cavity by intervening objects. It is attached superiorly to a tubercle on the outer surface of the external condyle, im- mediately above the groove occupied by the tendon of the popliteus muscle, superficial to which the ligament descends. By its lower end it is attached to the outer side of the head of the fibula, in fronts of the stylgidjprocess. In its course vertically downwards it splits the tendon o>f inser- tion of the biceps fiexor cruris (Fig. 223), the portions of which are fixed to the head of the fibula on either side of the ligament, and a bursa may intervene between the tendon and the ligament. The inferior external articular vessels pass forwards subjacent to this ligament and above the head of the fibula. Unlike the internal ligament, it is not attached to the corresponding semilunar cartilage. The ligamentum laterale externum breve seu posticum (Fig. 224) is an inconstant structure wliicli is attached by its U2J]^r end immediately behind the preceding, and subjacent to ■rt;he outer head of the gastrocnemius muscle. It likewise descends superficial to the jDopliteal tendon and is aflixed interiorly into tlie styloid process of the fibula. The intra-articular structures of the knee-joint are more important and more numerous than in any other joint of the body. The crucial ligaments (ligamenta cruciata genu) are two strong, rou.nded,tendinous bands which extend from the non-articular area on the upper surface of the head of the tibia to the non-articular sides of the intercondyloid notch of the femur These interarticular ligaments are distinguished from each other as the anterior or external and the posterior or internal. They cross each other like the limbs of an X, yet they remain distinct throughout, and each has its own partial synoviali covering. They lie within the capsule of the joint, and extend between non- articular surfaces in relation to the longitudinal axis of the limb. The ligamentum cruciatum anterius (Figs. 223 and 225) is attached inferiorly to the inner part of the rough depressed area in front of and close to the spine of the tibia. It passes obliquely upwards, outwards, and backwards to the inner- non-articular surface of the external condyle, where it finds attachment far back in the posterior part of the intercondyloid notch. This ligament is tense in the positiom of extension, and therefore it assists in maintaining the erect attitude. The ligamentum cruciatum posterius (Figs. 223 and 225) is somewhat shorter than the preceding. It is attached inferiorly to the hinder part of the depressed