UROGENITAL SYSTEM. 1140 The Wolffian duct serves as the canal or duct for the primitive secretory organ of the embryo. It does not persist as such in the adult, yet the adult of lioth sexes retains structures which have their origin in the Wolffian duct. These adult structures may be in a rudimentary or in a functional condition, and the functions performed by them may have changed during the course of development. In the male the canal of the epididymis, the vas deferens, and the common ejaculatory duct, are to be looked upon as directly developed from the Wolffian duet of the embryo ; while in the female the longitudinal duct of the parovarium and the hydatids of Morgagni are rudimentary structures having a like origin. Furtlier, the ureter and its pelvis, together with the complicated system of Fi(!. 780.—Deveuu'ment of the Bladder, Ureter, and KmNEV. From the models l)y Professor Keibel. A. Caudal portion of an embryo of 15 to 18 days old. The cloaca is relatively very large, and is not yet joined by the Wolffian ducts ; an indication is present of the separation of the cloaca into dor.sal or rectal, and ventral or urogenital, sul)divisions. B. The cloaca of an older embryo—25 to 27 days old. The subdivision of the cloaca is more clearly markeil. The Wolffian duct is seen joining the anterior subdivision, and from the lower part of the duct an out- growth is present, which gives origin to the ureter and the kidney. C. Still older stage (36 to 37 days old). The ureter has acquired a separate opening into the developing bladder, which is placed upon the same level as that of the WolfHan duct. The kidney is much more advanced, and the rectum is becoming separated from the urogenital canal. D. Female embryo 8^ to 9 weeks old. The openings of the ureter and genital ducts have become se])arated by a considerable interval. The urogenital canal and rectum have acquired separate openings. 1, Spinal cord ; 2, Notocliord ; 3, Pubic sj'mphysis ; 4, Cloacal membrane, forming the floor of the ectodermal cloacal fossa ; 5, Allantoic canal ; 6, Rectum, or rectal subdivision of cloaca ; 7, Urogenital subdivision of cloaca ; 8, Bladder; 9, Urogenital canal; 10, Wolfhan duct ; 11, Ureter (or ureter and developing kidney) ; 12, Miillerian duct ; 13, Genital eminence. kidney tubules whicii open into it, arise in both sexes as an outgrowth from the Wolffian duct. In the male the vesicula seminalis also arises as a diverticulum of the Wolffian duct (Fig. 781). The primitive excretory organ — mesonephros—develops in connexion with the anterior part of the Wolffian duct (p. 30), and is during the early life of the embryo a most important structure. With the development of the permanent kidney the meso- nephros atrophies, yet some of its tubules persist in the adult. The vasa efferentia, the ductuli aberrantes, and the rudimentar}- paradidymis (xjrgan of Giraldes) in the male, and the rudimentary tubules of the parovarium (epoophoron) and of the paroophoron in the female, are structures which owe their origin to tubules of the mesonephros. Soon after the formation of the Wolffian ducts two other longitudinally-disposed canals, called the Miillerian ducts, are developed. These open at their cephalic ends into the body cavitv, and at their caudal ends, unlike the Wolffian ducts, they nnite with one another in the middle line. From them are formed in the female—the Fallopian tubes, the uterus, and the vagina ; and in the male—the hydatids of the testis or of the epididynn's and the utriculus prostaticus. 'I'he Wolffian and Mtdlcrian ducts o])en at their caudal ends into the ventral or