206 OSTEOLOGY. independent centre for the styloid jjrocess of tiie third metacarpal, and there is usnally a scale-like epiphysis on the head of the first metacarpal which makes its appearance about eight or ten, and rapidly unites w ith the head. The Phalanges. nr. I'lialaiix, ungual or terminal II. riialanx I. Plialaux Head Hllaa The phalanges or huger boues (phalanges digitorum manus) are fourteen in number—three for each finger, and two for the thumb. Named numerically in order from the proximal toward the distal ends of the fingers, tlie first phalanx (phalanx prima), the longest and stoutest of the three, has a semi-cylindrical shaft which is slightly curved forwards. The palmar surface is Hat, and bounded on either side by two sharp l)orders to which the sheath of the flexor tendons is attached. The dorsal surface, convex from side to side, is overlain by the extensor tendons. The proximal end, considerably enlarged, has a simple oval concave surface, which rests on the head of its corresponding metacarpal bone. On either side of this the bone is tubercular, and affords attachment to the lateral ligaments of the meta- carpo-phalangeal joint. The distal end is much smaller than the proximal; the convex articular surface is divided into two condyles by a central groove running from be- fore backward. The second phalanx (phalanx secunda) resembles the first in general form, but is of smaller size. It dift'ers, however, in the form of its proximal articular surface, which is not a simple oval concavity, but is an oval area divided into two small, nearly circular con- cavities by a central ridge passing from before backwards ; these articulate with the condyloid surfaces of the proxi- mal phalanx. The third, terminal or ungual phalanx (phalanx tertia), is tlie smallest of the three; it is easily recognised by the spatula-shaped surface on its distal extremity which supports the nail. The articular surface on its proximal end resembles that on the proximal end of the second phalanx, but is smaller. On the palmar aspect of this end of the l)one there is a rough surface for Base the insertion of the tendon of the flexor profundus digi- torum muscle. The phalanges of the thumb resemble in the arrangement of their parts the first and third phalanges of the fingers. The arterial canals, usually two in luunher, jjlaced on eitluT side of the ])abnar as])e(;t and nearer the distal than the proximal end of the bone, are directed towards the tinger-tiiJ.s. Architecture.—Each jdialanx has a medullary cavity, the walls of the shaft being formed of (h'nse coiiii>act l)one, es])ccially thick along the doi-sal aspect. The extremities are made uj) of sjiongy l)one within a thin dense shell. Variations.—Staderini has recorded a case in which there were three i)lialanges in tin- tliundj {Imf. Anaf. Ji Firenze G. Chinrimj Mimifore Zool. Ital. Anno 5, N. 6-7, \\ 119-123). Ossification.—'i'he phalanges are ossified from primaiy and secondary centres. From the former, which appear as early as the ninth week of fa^tal life, the shaft and distal ex- tremities are developed : whilst the latter, which begin to appear about the third year, form the proximal epiphyses which unite with the shafts from eighteen to twent}'. Dixey {Prof. Roy. Soc. xxx. and xxxi.) has pointed out tiiat the primary centre in the ungual phalanges commences to ossify in the distal part of the bone rather than towards the centre of the shaft. This observation has been confirmed by Lambertz, who furthei- demonstrates the fact that ossification commences earlier in the distal phalanges than in any of the other bones of the hand. Of the other phalanges, those of the first row, begin- ning with that of the third finger, next ossify, subsequent to the appearance of ossifie centres in the shafts of the metacarpal bones, wiiilst the second or intermediate row of the ]>halanges is the last to ossify about the end of the third month. Metacarpal Fig. 154.—Thk Pn.ALANiiES of THE FiNCERS (palmar aspect).