502 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. tegmental region and the corpus mammillare. In front, however, as the tegmental substance gradually disappears, the thalamus comes to lie over the outer part of the tuber cinereum. From the subthalamic region many fibres enter the thalamus on its under aspect, whilst other fibres leave this surface of the thalamus to take part in the thalamic radi- ation. The superior or dorsal surface of the thalamus is free. Exter- nally it is l)ounded by a groove, which traverses the floor of the lateral ventricle of the brain and intervenes be- tween the thala- ]uus and the caudate nucleus. In this groove are placed a slender band of 10 n g i t udinal fibres, termed the taenia semi- cularis, and in its fore-part the vein of the corpus striatum. Non-vpiitricnlar part of tliaiaiiiiis Groove correspoiifiiii;; to fornix Quailrigeniiiial bodies Troclilpar iifirve Middle cere- bellar iiediiiicle Snjjer ior cere- bellar peduncle Lingula Bidb Genu of corpus callosuni Coqius callosuni (cut) Ventricle \'. Sejitum luciduui Caudate uuclens Foi'uix Foramen of Monro Anterior commissure Anterior tubcT'cle of thalamus • Jray commissure Tliird ventricle Ta'uia semicircularis Ta-nia thalau]! Trigonuni habenula- Posterior commissure Stalk of pineal body ~-Pulvinar -Pineal body Fig. 373.—The Two Optic Thalami (as seen from above). Internally, the superior surface of the mesial surface in its anterior half by thalamus is separated from the internal or a sharp edge or yjrominent ledge of the ependyma of the third ventricle. This is termed the taenia thalami, and the ridge which it forms is accentuated by the fact that, subjacent to it, there lies a longitudinal strand of fibres called the stria meduUaris. When these two structures, viz. the ependymal ridge and the subjacent tract, are traced liackwards, they are seen to turn inwards and Ijecome continuous with the stalk or peduncle of the pineal body. Behind the portion of the taenia thalami which turns inwards towards the pineal body a small depressed triangular area, the trigonum habenulse, situated in front of the superior qiiadrigeminal body, forms a very definite inner boundary for the hinder part of the superior surface of the thalamus. The superior surface of the thalamus is slightly bulging or convex, and is of a whitish colour, owing to the presence of a thin superficial covering of nerve-fibres, termed the stratum zonale. It is divided into two areas hj a faint oblique groove, which begins in front at tlie inner border, a short distance behind the anterior extremity of the thalamus, and extends outwards and Ijackwards to the outer part of the hinder end. This groove corresponds to the outer edge of the fornix. The two areas which are thus mapped out are very differently related to the ventricles of the brain, and also to the parts which lie above the thalamus. The oiUer area, which includes the anterior extremity of the thalamus, forms a part of the floor of the lateral ventricle. It is covered with ependyma, overlapped by .the choroid plexus of this ventricle, and lies immediately subjacent to the corpus callosum. Along the line of the groove the epithelial lining of the lateral ventricle is reflected