FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE FOEEAEM AND HAND. 321 Table of Muscles acting on the Elbow Jcfint. Flexors. Extensors. Biceps Brachialis anticus " Brachio-radialis Pronator radii teres Flexors of wrist and fingers Extensors of wrist (in pronation) Triceps Anconeus Extensors of wrist and fingers (in supination) (2) Subordinate and accessory movements are performed by all the muscles of tbis group except tlie brachialis anticus. Tlie biceps supiuates tlie forearm, flexes the elbow, and with the aid of the coraco-bracliialis adducts and flexes the humerus at tlie shoulder joint. The triceps througli its scaj^ular head adducts and extends the humerus, besides extending the elbow joint. FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE FOEEAEM AND HAND. Collateral digital branches of the median nerve Collateral digital branches of the ulnar ner\ e FASCIiE. The superficial fascia in the forearm presents no exceptional features. On the dorsum of the hand it is loose and thin; in the palm it is generally well furnished with fat, forming pads for the protection of the vessels and nerves. It is closely adherent to the palmar fascia, and to the skin, especially along the lines of flexure. The palmaris brevis is a quadrilateral subcutaneous muscle occupying the inner side of the hand under the superficial fascia. It arises from the inner border of the thick central portion of the palmar fascia, and is inserted into the skin of the inner border of the hand for a variable distance. It covers the ulnar artery and nerve, branches of which supply it. Its action is to wrinkle the skin of the inner border of the hand, and by raising up the skin and super- ficial fascia, to deepen the hol- low of the hand. The deep fascia of the forearm and hand is continuous above with the deep fascia of the arm. At the upper part of the forearm it is strengthened by additional fibres around the el- bow ; in front by fibres from the semilunar fascia of the biceps, behind by the fascial insertions of the triceps, First dorsal inter- osseous MUSCLI Adductor tran-j VERSUa POLLICIS Digital braiiche: (median nerve) Abductor pollicis Opponens pollici« — Superficial volar artery Palmaris longus tendon Fig. 238.—The Palm of the Hand (Superb'icial Dissection). and laterally by fibres derived from the humeral condyles in relation to the common tendons of origin of the flexor and extensor muscles of the forearm. It closely invests and gives origin to these muscles. It is attached to the posterior border of the ulna in the whole length of the forearm, and affords increased 21