THE ULNA. 189 u third centre for the small tuberosity begins to appear about the end of the third year, or uiiiy l)e deUxj'ed till the fourth or fifth year. These three centres are all blended by the seventh year, and form an epiphysis, which ultimately unites with the shaft about the age of twenty-five. It may be noticed that the superior end of the diaphysis is conical and pointed in the centre, over which the epiphysis fits as a cap, an arrangement which thus tends to prevent its displacement before union has occurred. The first centre to appear in the loiver e.rtremlty is that for the capitellum about the second or third year. This extends inwards, and forms the outer half of the trochlear surface, the centre for the inner lialf not making its appearance till the eleventh or tweltth year. At liirtli. About 5 years. About 12 year.s. Fig. 133.—Os.sification of thk Humerus. Al)out 16 yeiu> 1. Appears early in 2iid montli fetal life. 2. For tuberosity, appears 2 to 3 years. 3. For head, appears within first B months. 4. For internal condyle, appears about 5 years. 5. For capitellum, appears 2 to 3 years, (i. Appears about 12 years. 7. Centres for head and great tuberosity, coalesce»about 5 years. S. Centres for small tuberosity fuse with other centres about 7 years, ii. Appears about 11 or 12 years. 10. Inferior epiphysis fuses with .sliaft about Ifi to 17 years. U. Superior epiphysis fu.ses with shaft about 2.5 years. 12. Fuses with shaft aboiit 17 to IS years. Separate centres are developed in connexion with the epicondyles ; that for the external appears about the twelfth year, and rapidly coalescing with the centres for the capitellum and trochlea forms an epiphysis, which luiites with the shaft about the sixteenth or seventeenth year. The centre for the internal epicondyle appears about the fifth year; it forms a separate epiphysis, which unites with the shaft about eighteen or nineteen. These two epiphyses at the lower end of the bone are separated by a down-growth of the shaft, which lies between the internal epicondyle and the trochlea, and forms part of the base and inner side of the latter process. The epicondylic process when present is developed from the diaphysis, and has been observed to be already well ossified by the third year. (" Proc. Anat. Soc." Journ. Anat. and Physiol, 1898.) ^ The Ulna. Of the two bones of the forearm, the ulna, which is placed internally, is the longer. It consists of a large superior extremity supporting the olecranon and coronoid processes; a shaft tapering from above downwards; and a small rounded inferior end called the head. Superior extremity.—The olecranon process (olecranon) lies in line with the shaft. Its posterior surface, more or less triangular in form, is smooth and