LYMPHATIC GLANDS AND VESSELS OF LOWEK EXTKEMITY. 869 glands which lie parallel with and just below Poupart's ligament. They receive afferent vessels from the back and outer part of the thigh and the buttock, and the superficial lymphatics from the body wall below the level of the umbilicus, except those from the lower and anterior part which pass to the internal group of glands. Their efferents pass through the deep fascia, and terminate either in the deep femoral or the external iliac glands. (b) The inferior or femoral group is formed by from three to six oval glands which are disposed vertically along the upper part of the internal or long saphenous vein. They receive all the superficial lymphatics of the foot and leg, except a few which accompany the external saphenous vein to the popliteal glands; all the superficial lymphatics of the thigh, except those from the upper and outer part, which terminate in the superior set of glands, and a few from the upper and inner part which terminate in the inner group of glands. The efferent vessels of the femoral group pass through the saphenous opening, and terminate either in the deep femoral glands or in the external iliac glands. (c) The internal or pubic group includes two, three, or four rounded glands which lie internal to the saphenous opening and close to the spine of the pubis. They receive afferent vessels from the lower and middle portion of the abdominal wall, from the upper and inner part of the thigh, from the external genitals, including the lymphatics of the membranous and spongy portions of the urethra in the male, or the lower third of the vagina in tlie female, and from the perineum, including the lymphatics of the lowest part of the rectum and of the anus, in botli sexes. The vessels from the lower third of the vagina and the corresponding part of the rectum communicate not only with the inguinal glands but also with the internal iliac glands. The efferent vessels of the pubic glands communicate with the efferents of the superior and inferior groups, and, after passing through the saphenous opening, they terminate either in the deep femoral or the external iliac glands. (2) Deep Glands.—The deep lymphatic glands of the lower extremity are found on the upper part of the interosseous membrane of the leg, in the popliteal space, and in Scarpa's triangle. The anterior tibial gland (lymphoglandula tibialis anterior) is situated near the anterior tibial artery on the upper part of the front of the interosseous membrane. It receives afferent vessels from the deep parts of the sole and the dorsum of the foot, and from the deep parts of the front of the leg. It gives off two efferent vessels which pass backwards along the anterior tibial artery and terminate in the popliteal glands. The popliteal glands (lyraphoglandulse poplitese) are four or five in number; they lie in the popliteal space, generally round the popliteal artery, but occasionally there is one immediately beneath the deep fascia near the entrance of the external saphenous vein. They receive afferent vessels from the sole of the foot and the back of the leg, and from the anterior tibial gland; they also receive the superficial lymphatics which accompany the external saphenous vein. The efferent vessels join the deep femoral glands. The deep femoral glands, three or four in number, lie on the inner side of the femoral vein, and the largest of the group is embedded in the crural canal. Their afferent vessels are the efferents of the popliteal glands, some of the efferents from the superficial glands of the groin, and the deep lymphatic vessels from the front and outer side of the thigh and knee. Their efferents pass to the external iliac glands. Lymphatic Vessels of the Lower Extremity.—There are two sets of these vessels, (1) the superficial and (2) the deep. (1) Superficial Vessels.—The superficial lymphatics lie in the subcutaneous tissues. They commence in plexuses which are best marked on the plantar aspects of the toes and foot. The lymphatic vessels which emerge from the plantar plexus in each toe terminate in four digital vessels which are arranged in pairs along the dorso-lateral border of the digit, and these end posteriorly in a plexus on the dorsum of the foot. Some of the vessels which drain the plexus in the sole of the foot turn round