492 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF THE MESENCEPHALON. When transverse sections are made through the mesencephalon the aqueduct of Sylvius is seen to be surrounded by a thick layer of gray matter, which receives the name of the Sylvian gray matter or the central gray matter of the aqtueduct (stratum griseum centrale). On the dorsal aspect of the Sylvian gray matter the corpora quadrigemina form a layer which separates it from the surface, and to which the term lamina quadrigemina is applied. On the ventral and lateral aspects of the Sylvian gray matter are the tegmental portions of the crura cerebri, whilst, intervening between each of the latter and the correspond- ing crusta, there is a conspicuous mass of dark pigmented matter termed the substantia nigra. Sylvian aqueduct and Sylvian gray matter (aqu;eductus cerebri— stratum griseum centrale).— The aqueduct of Sylvius is the canal which leads from the fourth ven- tricle below, upwards through the mesencephalon, to the third ventricle above. It is not quite three-quarters of an inch in length, and it lies much nearer the dorsal than the ventral surface of the mesencephalon. When examined in transverse section, it presents a triangular outline as it passes into the fourth ventricle and a T-shaped outline close to the third ventricle. In the intermediate part of its course it assumes different outlines, and not always the same form at the same level in different individuals. The aqueduct of Sylvius is lined by ciliated epithelium, and outside this is the thick layer of Sylvian gray matter, which is directly continuous below with the gray matter spread out on the floor of the fourth ventricle, and above with gray matter on the floor and sides of the third ventricle. Scattered more or less irregularly throughout the Sylvian gray matter are numerous nerve-cells of varyiiag forms and sizes, whilst in addition to these there are three definite collections or clusters of cells, which constitute the nuclei of origin of the trochlear nerve, the oculo-motor nerve, and the mesencephalic root of the trigeminal nerve. The position and relations of these will be given at a later stage. Substantia Nigra.—When seen in transverse section, the substantia nigra presents a semilunar outline. It consists of a mass of gray matter, in the midst of wliich are large numbers of deeply pigmented nerve-cells. It is only when this substance is examined in bulk that it appears dark; in thin sections it does not differ much in colour from ordinary gray matter, although, under the microscope, the brown-coloured cells stand out very conspicuously, even under low powers. The substantia nigra is, in reality, disposed in the form of a thick band, interposed between the tegmental and pedal portions of the crus cerebri. It begins below at the upper border of the pons Varolii and extends upwards into the subthalamic region. The margins of this band of dark-coloured substance come to the surface at the oculo-motor and the lateral sulci of the mesencephalon, and its inner part is traversed by the emerging fascicles of the oculo-motor nerve. It is not equally thick throughout. Towards the lateral sulcus it becomes thin, whilst it thickens considerably near the inner aspect of the crus cerebri. The surface of the sub- stantia nigra, which is turned towards the tegmentum, is concave and uniform; the opposite surface is convex and rendered irregular by the presence of numerous slender prolongations of the substance into the crusta. The morphological and physiological significance of the substantia nigra is not fully understood, and the connexions established by its cells are imperfectly known. Inferior Quadrigeminal Bodies (colliculi inferiores).—Each of the inferior