474 THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM. side of the mesial plane, and, although they appear to lie within the cavity, they are in reality excluded from it by the epithelial lining of the ventricle, which covers over and is adapted to every sinuosity on their surface. Two lateral oft'shoots from these longitudinal choroid plexuses proceed outwards, and protrude in a similar manner into the lateral recesses. Minute Structure of a Cerebellar Folium. A cerebellar folium is composed of a central core of white matter, covered by a layer of gray matter. The gray cortex is arranged in two very evident layers, viz. a superficial molecular layer and a subjacent rust-coloured granular layer. Between these strata a single layer of large cells, termed the cells of Purkinje, are disposed in the form of a very nearly continuous sheet. The cells of Purkinje constitute the most characteristic, and probably the most essential, constituents of the cerebellar cortex. The cells of Purkinje are most numerous on the summit of the folium, and at the bottom of the sulci .which intervene between the folia they become fewer in nund:)er, and, therefore, looser in their arrangement. Each consists of a large flask-shaped or pyriform cell body, the narrow end of which projects into the molecular layer, whilst the thicker, deeper end rests on the granular layer. From the latter arises a single axon, which passes into the granular layer and presents the peculiarity of almost immediately assum- ing its medullary sheath. From this axon a few col- lateral branches soon arise, which, taking a recurrent course, enter the molecular layer, to end in connexion with certain of the adjoin- ing cells of Purkinje. They would seem to have the function of binding together adjacent cells, and thus en- abling them to carry on their opei'ations in harmony with eacli other. The dendritic processes spring from the narrow end of the cell either in the form of one or perhaps two stout stalks. These ascend into the molecular layer, branching and rebranching until an arborescent arrange- ment of extraordinary rich- ness and extent results. The dendritic branches ex- tend throughout the entire thickness of the molecular layer, and the branching takes place in one plane only, viz. in a plane which is transverse to the long axis of the folium. Consequently, it is only when transverse sections are made through a folium that the full den- dritic effect is obtained ; in Fig. 352.—Tra>-sverse Skction throdok a Cerebellar Folium (after Kolliker), Treated by the Golgi metliod. P. A.xon of cell of Purkinje. F. Moss fibres. K and K^. Fibres from white core of folium ending iu molecular layer in connexion with the dendrites of the cells of Purkinje. M. Small cell of the molecular layer. GR. Granule cell. GR.' Axons of granule cells in molecular layer cut transversely. W. Basket-cells. Basket-work around the cells of Purkinje. Neuroglial cell. Axon of an association cell. ZK. GL. N. sections made parallel to the long axis of the folium the cells are seen in profile and are observed to occupy quite a naiTow area. The branching of the dendrites of a cell of Purkinje may, therefore, be compared to that which takes place in the case of a fruit-tree which is trained against a wall. In the molecular layer the cells are not particularly numerous, and of these the