THE MUSCLES OF THE LEG AND FOOT. 355 lower part, which passes across the dorsum of the foot, and joins the fascia of the sole at its inner border. Beneath this ligament are three special compartments with separate synovial sacs, one for the tibialis anticus tendon, a second for that of the extensor proprius hallucis, and a third for the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius tendons. There are occasionally other additional bands of the deep fascia passing like the straps of a sandal across the dorsum of the foot. The plantar fascia is of great importance. In the centre of the sole it forms a thick triangular band, attached posteriorly to the tuberosity of the os calcis. It spreads out anteriorly and separates into five slips, which are directed forwards to the bases of the toes. These slips as they separate are joined together by ill-defined bands of transverse fibres, which constitute the superficial transverse metatarsal ligament. The slip for each toe joins the tissue of the web of the toe and is continuous with the digital sheath. On each side of the toe a band of fibres is directed forwards, to be attached to the side of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation and the base of the first phalanx. This central portion of the plantar fascia assists in preserv- ing the arch of the foot, by drawing the toes and the os calcis together. On each side it is continuous with a much thinner layer which covers the lateral muscles of the sole, and joins the fascia of the dorsum of the foot at each border. It also gives rise to intermuscular septa, which pass upwards on each side of the flexor brevis digitorum, enclosing that muscle in a separate sheath, and giving investments on either side to the abductor muscles of the great and little toes. At the outer border of the footi the calcaneo-metatarsal ligament, a thickened band of the fascia, connects the tuberosity of the os calcis with the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The digital sheaths, though smaller, are the same in arrangement as those of the fingers. Vaginal ligaments are present in relation to the first and second phalanges. Branches of internal plantar nerve Inner portion ol plantar fascia Thick central portion of plantar fascia Inner portion of plantar fascia Connective tissue and fat in the web of the toes ^ Branches of external J plantar nerve Outer portion of plantar fascia Branches of external plantar nerve Outer portion of plantar lascia Calcaneo-metatarsal liKament Fig. 260.—The Plantar Fascia and Plantar Cutaneous Nerves. THE MUSCLES OF THE LEG AND FOOT. The muscles of the leg and foot are divisible into three series: (1) the extensor muscles on the front of the leg and dorsum of the foot; (2) the peronei on the outer side of sole of the foot, the leg; and (3) the flexor muscles on the back of the leg and in the The Muscles on the Front of the Leg and Dorsum of the Foot. The muscles on the front of the leg and dorsum of the foot include two groups: (1) on the front of the leg, the tibialis anticus, long extensors of the toes and peroneus tertius; and (2) on the dorsum of the foot, the extensor brevis digitorum. The tibialis anticus (m. tibialis anterior) arises from the upper two-thirds of the outer surface of the tibia, from the interosseous membrane, from the fascia over it, and from an intermuscular septum externally. The muscle ends in 23 a