THE UPPEK SURFACE OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL. 165 is the foramen ovale; through this pass both roots of the inferior maxillary nerve, the small meningeal artery, and some emissary veins. A little external and posterior to this is the foramen spinosum for the transmission of the middle meningeal vessels, together with a recurrent branch from the inferior maxillary nerve. Leading from the external extremity of the foramen lacerum there is a groove which passes outwards, backwards, and slightly upwards on the superior surface of the petrous temporal to end in the hiatus Fallopii (a cleft opening into the aauseductus Fallopii), which gives passage to the large superficial petrosal branch from the geniculate ganglion on the seventh nerve, together with the small petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery. Just external to the hiatus Fallopii there is another small foramen for the transmission of the lesser superficial petrosal nerve. Overhung by the posterior border of the lesser wing of the sphenoid is the sphenoidal fissure, the cleft which separates the lesser from the great sphenoidal wings, and which opens anteriorly into the hollow of the orbit; through this pass the third, fourth, ophthalmic division of the fifth, and sixth nerves, together with the ophthalmic veins as well as the sympathetic filament to the lenticular ganglion. Just below its inner extremity is the foramen rotundum for the passage of the superior maxillary nerve to the spheno-maxillary fossa. Behind this, and between it and the foramen ovale, the foramen Vesalii may occasionally be seen, through which a vein passes to reach the pterygoid plexus. The lateral parts of the middle fossa are moulded in conformity with the convolutions of the temporal lobes, but towards their inner sides the splitting of the dura mater in the region of the cavernous sinus serves to separate the cranial base from the under surface of the cerebrum. As may be seen by transmitted light, the floor of the lateral parts of the fossa is thin as it overlies the temporal, zygomatic, and glenoid fossae. The'grooves for the lodgment of the branches of the middle meningeal artery leading from the foramen spinosum are readily seen; one, coursing backwards a little below the line of the squamoso-parietal suture, is specially well marked. Amongst other features may be noticed the depression for the lodgment of the Gasserian ganglion overlying the summit of the petrous temporal; behind and to the outer side of the hiatus Fallopii, the arcuate eminence, indicating the position of the superior semicircular canal; and immediately anterior and slightly to the outer side of this the tegmen tympani, which roofs in the cavity of the tympanum, the thinness of which can readily be demonstrated if light be allowed to fall through the external auditory meatus. The posterior fossa is larger and deeper than the others. In front it is limited by a line on either side leading backwards and outwards ft'om each posterior clinoid process along the superior border of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where externally and posteriorly it becomes confluent with the superior lip of the transverse groove for the lateral sinus, ending posteriorly in the middle line at the internal occipital protuberance. Along the line thus indicated the process of dura mater called the tentorium cerebelli, which roofs in the posterior fossa, is attached. The floor of the fossa, in which the cerebellar lobes, the pons, and medulla are lodged, is formed by the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal bone, with part of the body of the sphenoid and the basilar portion of the occipital bone wedged in between them. Above the mastoid temporal a small part of the posterior inferior angle of the parietal enters into the constitution of the outer wall of the fossa. Behind and within these the lateral parts and lower portions of the squamous occipital complete the floor. In the middle line the floor of the fossa is pierced by the foramen magnum, in which lies the lower part of the medulla, together with its membranes, and through which pass upwards the vertebral arteries and the spinal accessory nerves. On either side of the foramen magnum, and a little in front of a transverse line passing through its centre, is the opening of the anterior condylic foramen for the passage of the hypoglossal nerve, a small meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery and an emissary vein. Overhanging the opening of the anterior condylic foramen there is a thickened rounded bridge of bone, to the outer side of which is placed the irregular opening of the jugular foramen (foramen lacerum posterius). The size of this is apt to vary on the two sides, and the lumen is frequently subdivided by a spicule of bone which