451 THE PONS VAEOLII. form body, whilst the auditory nerve reaches the brain close to the facial nerve, on the ventral aspect of the restiform body. The whole of the medulla enters the lower aspect of the pons, and, with the exception of the restiform bodies, its constituent parts are, to a large extent, carried up within it. The crura cerebri emerge from its upper aspect. The dorsal surface of the pons is turned backwards towards the cerebellum, and presents a triangular area covered with gray matter, which forms the upper part of the anterior wall or floor of the fourth ventricle. This area is directly continuous below with the medullary part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, and is bounded on either side by a band of white matter termed the superior peduncle of the cerebellum. The superior cerebellar peduncles (brachia conjunctiva) are hidden from view by the upper part of the cerebellum, under cover of which they lie. They emerge from the lateral hemispheres of the cerebellum, and, as they proceed upwards on the dorsal aspect of the pons, they converge towards each other until, at the level of the inferior corpora quadrigemina, the inner margins of the two peduncles almost become contiguous (Fig. 333, p. 447). At first they form the lateral boundaries of the upper part of the fourth ventricle; but, as they ascend and approach closer to each other, they gradually come to overhang that cavity and thus enter into the formation of its roof. They disappear from the surface by dipping under cover of the quadrigeminal bodies and entering the substance of the mesencephalon. Valve of Vieussens or the Superior Medullary Velum (velum medullare anterius).—Filling up the triangular interval between the two superior cere- bellar peduncles, and stretching across from the inner and free margin of the one to the corresponding margin of the other, is a thin layer of white matter which completes the roof or dorsal wall of the upper part of the fourth ventricle, and receives the name of the superior medullary velum. When traced downwards, it is seen to be carried with the superior peduncles into the white matter of the cere- bellum. Spread out on its dorsal surface is a small, thin, tongue-shaped prolongation of gray matter from the cortex of the cerebellum, which is termed the lingula, whilst issuing from its substance close to the inferior quadrigeminal bodies are the two fourth or trochlear cranial nerves. Fourth Ventricle of the Brain (ventriculus quartus).—The fourth ventricle is somewhat rhomboidal in form. Below, it tapers to a point and becomes con- tinuous with the central canal of the cord; above, it narrows in a similar manner and is continued into the aqueduct of Sylvius, which tunnels the mesencephalon. The posterior wall is termed the roof and is concealed by the cerebellum. The anterior wall is called the floor and is formed by the dorsal surface of the medulla and pons. On either side a narrow-pointed prolongation of the ventricular cavity is carried outwards from its widest part and curves round the upper part of the corresponding restiform body. This is termed the lateral recess. The roof of the cavity is very thin and intimately connected with the cerebellum. It is better, therefore, to defer its description until that part of the brain has been studied. Floor of the Fourth Ventricle (fossa rhomboidea).—In its lower part the floor of the fourth ventricle is formed by the dorsal surface of the open part of the medulla, whilst in its upper part it is formed by the dorsal surface of the pons Varolii (Fig. 333, p. 447). The area thus constituted is lozenge-shaped, its widest part being opposite the middle peduncles of the cerebellum. A thick layer of gray matter, continuous with that which surrounds the central canal of the cord, is spread out like a carpet over the ventricular floor, and covering this is the usual ependymal layer, which lines all the ventricles of the brain. The area is circum- scribed by definite lateral boundaries. Thus, helow it is bounded on either side by the clava, the cuneate tubercle, and the restiform body; whilst above the lateral limits are formed by the superior cerebellar peduncles. The floor of the fourth ventricle is divided into two lateral and symmetrical portions by a median groove. At the lower narrow end between the two clavae it receives the name of the calamus scriptorius, from its fancied resemblance to the point of a pen. Crossing each half of the floor, at its widest part, are several trans-