591 THE EADIAL NERVE. nerve varies in size, according to the bulk of the lesser internal cutaneous and intercosto-humeral nerves. '1. Muscular branches (rr. musculares).—These are in two sets. One series supplies the long head of tlie triceps muscle near its origin; the other series enters the inner head of the muscle. One of the latter, separating itself from the rest, accompanies the ulnar nerve in the middle third of the arm, and supplies the lower part of the muscle. This is some- times called the collateral ulnar nerve. Branches arising on the back of the humerus. — Muscular branches arise from the nerve in the musculo- spiral groove for the supply of all three heads of the triceps muscle. The branch which enters the inner head of the muscle, besides supplying it, passes through the muscle aiid behind the external condyle of the humerus, to terminate in the anconeus. Branches arising at the outer side of the humerus.—1. The cutaneous branches (n. cutaneus anti- brachii dorsalis) are two in number, superior and inferior. Arising from the musculo-spiral nerve before it pierces the external intermuscular septum, these branches pierce the deep fascia close together on the outer side of the arm in its lower half. Descending over the back of the external condyle, the superior branch supplies the skin of the outer side and back of the arm in its lower third, and the back of the forearm in its upper half. The inferior hranch supplies an area of skin on the back of the forearm in the upper two-thirds internal to the area innervated by the musculo-cutaneous nerve (Fig. 43.3, p. 588). 2. Muscular branches.—The musculo-spiral nerve, as it lies in the interval between the brachialis anticus and brachio-radialis, supplies a small branch to the brachialis anticus (which in some cases is not present) and nerves to the brachio-radialis and extensor carpi radialis longior. It may also provide the nerve to the extensor carpi radialis brevior. Fig. 435.—Diagrammatic Repre- sentation OP THE Branches OF THE Musculo-spiral Nerve. M.S, Musculo-spiral nerve ; L.H, Nerve to long head of triceps ; I.C, Internal cutaneous branch ; I.H, Nerve to inner head of triceps; O.H, Nerve to outer head of triceps ; I.H, Second nerve to inner head of triceps ; Anc, Nerve to anconeus ; Art, Ar- ticular Lranch ; E.C's, Superior external cutaneous branch ; E.Ci, Inferior external cutaneous branch ; B.A, Nerve to brachialis anticus ; Br, Nerve to brachio- radialis ; E.C'.R.L, Nerve to ex- tensor carpi radialis longior ; P.I, Posterior interosseous nerve ; R, Radial nerve. Radial Nerve. - The radial nerve (r. superficialis) is entirely cutaneous in its distribution. Arising in the hollow of the elbow beneath the brachio-radialis. it courses down- wards under cover of that muscle through the upper two-thirds of the arm, and accompanies the radial artery in the middle third of the forearm. It then passes backwards beneath the tendon of the brachio-radialis and pierces the deep fascia in the outer side of the fore- arm in the lower third. It is distributed to the skin of the back of the wrist, the outer side and^ the back of the hand, and the back of the thumb and outer two and a half fingers (Fig. 433, p. 588). Its branches communicate on the ball of the thumb With the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and on the back of the hand with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. The digital branches are small, and are five in number. Two pass to the back of the thumb and reach the inter-phalangeal articulation. One supplies the radial side of the index finger as far as the second phalanx. The remaining two branches divide at the clefts between the second and third, and third and fourth fingers respectively, and innervate the adjacent sides of these fingers as far as the second phalanx. The rest of the skin of these digits to the tips is supplied by digital branches of the median nerve;