207 THE LOWEE LIMB. Sesamoid Bones. Two little oval nodules (ossa sesamoidea), which play in grooves on the palmar aspect of the articular surface of the head of the first metacarpal bone, are constantly met with in the tendons and ligaments of that metacarpo-phalangeal articulation. Similar nodules, though of smaller size, are sometimes formed in the corresponding joints of the other fingers, more particularly the index and little finger; as Thilenius has pointed owt, {Moiyh. Arheiten, vol. v.), these are but the persistence of cartilaginous elements which have a phylogenetic interest. THE LOWEE LIMB. THE PELVIC (4IRDLE AND THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The pelvic girdle is formed by the articulation of the two haunch bones with the sacrum behind, and their union with each other in front, at the joint called the symphysis pubis. The Innominate Bone. The innominate or haunch bone (os coxse) is the largest of the flat bones of the skeleton. It consists of three parts—the ilium, the ischium, and the pubis— primarily distinct, but fused together in the process of growth to form one large irregular bone. The coalescence of these elements takes place in and around the acetabulum, a large circular articular hollow which is placed on the outer side of the bone. The expanded wing-like part above this is the ilium; the stout V-shaped portion below and behind it constitutes the ischium ; while the ^-shaped part to the inner side, and in front and below, forms the pubis. The two latter portions of the bone enclose between them a large aperture of irregular outline, called the thyroid or obturator foramen (foramen obturatorum), which is placed in front and below, and to the inner side of the acetabulum. The ilium, almost a quadrant in form, consists of an expanded plate of bone, having a curved superior border, the iliac crest (crista iliaca). Viewed from the side, this forms a curve corresponding to the circumference of the circle of which the bone is the quadrant; viewed from above, however, it will be seen to display a double bend—convex anteriorly and externally, and concave posteriorly and externally. The iliac crest is stout and thick, and for descriptive purposes it is divided into an outer lip (labium^ externum), an inner lip (labium internum), and an intermediate surface (linea intermedia) which is broad behind, narrowest about its middle, and wider again in front. About 2^ inches from the anterior extremity of the crest the outer lip is usually markedly prominent and forms a projecting tubercle, which can readily be felt in the living. Attached to these surfaces and lips anteriorly are the muscles of the flank, whilst from them posteriorly the latissimus dorsi, quadratus lumborum, and erector spinse muscles derive their origins. In front, the crest ends in a pointed process, the anterior superior iliac spine (spina iliaca anterior superior). To this the outer extremity of Poupart's ligament is attached, as well as the sartorius muscle, which also arises from the edge of bone immediately below it, whilst from the same process and from the anterior end of the outer lip of the iliac crest externally the tensor fascife femoris muscle takes, origin. The anterior border of the ilium stretches from the anterior superior iliac spine to the margin of the acetabulum below. Above, it is thin ; but below, it forms a thick tubercular process, the anterior inferior iliac spine (spina iliaca anterior in- ferior). From this the rectus femoris muscle arises, whilst strong fibres of the ilio-femoral ligament of the hip-joint are attached to it immediately above the acetabular margin. Posteriorly, the crest terminates in the posterior superior iliac spine (spina iliaca posterior superior). Below this, the posterior border of the bone is sharp and irregularly notched, terminating in a prominent angle, the posterior inferior iliac spine (spina iliaca posterior inferior), in front of which the edge of the