1167 THE CEANIUM. The short process of the malleus projects outwards, and presents itself, tlierefore, as a conspicuous object at the upper part of the menil)rane ; passing forwards and backwards from this process are the anterior and posterior folds of the membrana tympani; they form the lower limit of Slirapnell's membrane, and correspond to tiie line of the cliorda tympani nerve. The handle of the malleus, situated at the junction of the two upper quadrants, is seen passing downwards and slightly backwards to the point of maximum concavity of the membrane (umbo), situated a little below its centre ; passing downwards and forwards from the umbo is the trianyular cone of reflected light, to which too much importance must not be attached, since its appearances vary considerably in healthy ears. Normally, the long process of the incus is hut faintly visible, and still less so are the promontory and foi'amen rotundiim; in the condition of Eustachian obstruction, however, in which the membrane is indi'awn, these structures, along with the folds of the drum, become more distinct. In performing the operation of 2M'>'aceittesi)< of the ti/mpauic membrane the postero- inferior quadrant is the site chosen for making the puncture, as, in addition to providing good drainage, it is farthest removed from important structures, especially the chorda tympani nerve. In order to understand the clinical importance of. the parts seen through the trans- lucent membrane, it is necessary to study the relative position of the structure of the Internal jugular vein Promontory Fig. 79.5.—View of the Innek Wall ok the Middle Ear. Section tlirougli the left temporal bone of a child, to show the relations of the middle ear and mastoid antrum to the middle and posterior foss;e of the skull. " mtso-tympanum" that is to say, that part of the tympanum which lies ojpposite the tympanic membrane. If the tympanic plate and the tympanic membrane be carefully removed so as to leave the ossicles and chorda tympani nerve in position, it will be seen that the head of the malleus and the body and short process of the incus are altogether above the tympanic membrane, and that, they occupy the tympanic attic or epitympanic space. At the junction of the two upper quadrants of tiie membrane is the handle of the malleus, which is directed downwards, backwards, and inwards. The short process of the malleus is directed outwards a little below the deepest part of the roof of the osseous external auditory canal. Opposite the postero-superior quadrant are the long process of the incus, which descends behind and almost parallel to the handle of the malleus, and the stapes, which is directed inwards and slightly backwards to the foramen ovale. The chorda tympani nerve runs from behind forwards between the outer surface of the upper part of the long process of the incus and the inner surface of the neck of the malleus. At the deepest part of the I'oof of the osseous canal above the chorda tympani nerve and the short jjrocess of the malleus is a notch (iiotch of Rivini), which is occupied by the flaccid and highest portion of the membrana tympani {Shnrpnell's membrane). Opposite the jjostero-inferior quadrant of the drmn-head is the promontory of the cochlea, below and behind which is the foramen rotundum. (Opposite tlie antcro- superior quadrant are the processus cochleariformis, tiie tendon of the tensor tympani, and tlie passage loading towards tlie Eustachian tube. The i)i)ier ivall of the tympanic cavity is related to the internal ear. The upper mill is separated from the middle fossa of the skull and the under surface of the temporal lobe of the brain by the tegmen tympani—a thin plate of bone, which is continued