THE MUSCIJLAE SYSTEM. 312 border to the costo-coracoid membrane. It crosses the axillary vessels and the cords of the brachial plexus, and is pierced by branches of the anterior thoracic nerves. Either in ])art or wholly the pectoralis minor may pass over the coracoid ^^rocess of the scapula, separated from it by a ljursa, to be inserted into the coraco-acromial ligament, or the acromion process; or jiiercing the coraco-acromial ligament, it may be attached to the capsule of the shoulder joint (coraco-liumeral ligament). Pectoralis minimus.—This is a slender slip, rarely jiresent, -u hich extends between the first costal cartilage and tlie coracoid process. The subclavius muscle arises from the upper surface of the first costal cartilage in front of the costo-clavicular ligament. It is inserted into a groove in the middle third of the under surface of the clavicle. The muscle is invested by the fascia which forms the costo-coracoid membrane, and is concealed by the clavicle and the clavicular origin of the pectoralis major. The sterno-clavicularis is a small separate slip, rarely present, extending beneath the pectoralis major from the upper j^art of the sternum to the clavicle. The serratus magnus (m. serratus anterior) is a large curved quadrilateral muscle occupying the side of the chest and inner wall of the axilla. It arises hj fleshy slips from the external aspect of the upper eight ribs. The first slip is a double one, arising from the first two ribs and the fascia covering the intervening space. The insertion of the muscle is threefold. (1) The first portion of the muscle (from the first and second ribs) is directed back- wards to be inserted into the ventral aspect of the upper angle of the scapula. (2) The next three slips of the muscle (from the second, third, and fourth ribs) are inserted into the vertebral border of the scapula. (3) The last four slips (from the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs) are directed obliquely upwards and Imck- wards, to be inserted on the ventral aspect of the lower angle of the scapula. The external surface of the muscle is partly superficial below the axilla, on the side wall of the chest, where its shps of origin are seen inter-digitating with those of the obhquus externus abdominis. Higher up it forms the inner \vall of the axilla, and is in contact with the pectoral muscles in front and the subscapularis behind. Its upper border appears in the floor of the posterior triangle, and over it the axillary artery and the cords of the brachial plexus pass to reach the armpit. The lower border is oblique, and is in contact with the latissimus dorsi muscle. The deep surface of the muscle is in contact with the chest wall, so that the serratus magnus along with the subscapularis nmscle separates the scapula from the ribs. The muscle may extend higher than usual, so as to be continuous with the levator anguli scapulae. Fig. 233.—The Serratus Magnus Muscle.