THE OEGANS OF SENSE. 720 above the external attachment of the membrana basilaris. A canal is thus enclosed between the underlying scala tyinpani and the overlying scala vestibuli, and con- stitutes the membranous cochlea or ductus cochlearis. Triangular on transverse Fig. 526.—Section across the Ductu.s Cochlearis (Retzius). section, it possesses a roof, outer wall, and floor, and is lined throughout with epithehum and filled with endolym.ph. On its floor the epithelium is greatly modified, and here are found the endings of the cochlear division of the auditory nerve. The roof or vestibular wall of the ductus cochlearis is formed by the mem- brane of Eeissuer, which consists of a delicate, nearly homogeneous membrane, covered on its two surfaces by a layer of epithelium. Its entire thickness is about 3 /X. The outer wall of the ductus cochlearis (Fig. 527) consists of the periosteal lining of the bony cochlea, which, however, is much thickened and greatly modified to form what is termed the ligamentum spirale cochleae. Occupying the whole outer wall, this ligament projects inwards inferiorly as a triangular prominence, the crista basilaris, to whicli the outer edge of the membrana basilaris is attached. The fibres of the membrane radiate into the ligament in the form of a series of bundles analogous to the ligamentum pectinatum iridis. In the upper part of the liga- mentum spirale the periosteum is of a reddish-yellow colour and contains, immedi- ately under its epithelial lining, numerous small blood-vessels and capillary loops, forming the stria vascularis. The lower limit of this stria is bounded by a prominence, the prominentia spiralis, in which is seen a vessel, the vas prominens, and between this prominence and the crista basilaris is a concavity, the sulcus spiralis externus. The height of the outer wall diminishes towards the apex of the cochlea. The floor or tympanal wall of the ductus cochlearis is formed by the periosteum covering that portion of the lamina spiralis ossea which is situated to the outer side of Keissner's membrane, and by the membrana basilaris, which stretches from the free edge of the lamina spiralis ossea to the crista basilaris. On the inner part of the membrana basilaris, the complicated structure termed the organ of Corti is placed. The lamina spiralis ossea consists of two plates of bone, between which are placed the canals for the branches of the cochlear nerve. On the upper plate the periosteum is thickened and modified to form the limbus laminae spiralis, the outer extremity of which forms a C-shaped concavity, the sulcus spiralis internus. The portions of the limbus which project outwards, above and below this concavity, are termed respectively the labium vestibulare and labium tympanicum. The latter is perforated by some 4000 small apertures, the foramina nervosa or habenula perforata, for the transmission of the cochlear nerves. Externally it becomes continuous with the