699 THE EAE. aspect of the optic stalk, forming what is termed the chorioidal fissure (Fig. 508). Througli this fissure the mesoderm passes inwards between the lens and the retina to form the vitreous body, while the arteria centralis retinae also becomes enclosed in it and so gains its future position in tlie centre of the optic nerve. The arteria centralis is prolonged forwards from the porus opticus througli tlie vitreous body, as a cone of branches, as far as the back of the lens. By the fifth or sixth month all these branches have disappeared except one, the arteria hyaloidea, which persists until the last month of foetal life, when it also atrophies, leaving only the canalis hyaloideus to indicate its position. The lens rudiment, at first in contact with the ecto- derm, fi'om which it is derived, soon becomes separated from it by mesoderm, and then consists of a rounded vesicle lined by epithelium. The epithelium -which lines the anterior part of the vesicle remains as a single layer of cells—the anterior lens epithelium of the adult. The cells lining the posterior part of the vesicle become elongated into lens fibres, and by the forward growth of these the cavity of the vesicle is obliterated. This elongation into lens fibres is greatest at the centre of the lens, while near the equator the fibres ai'e shorter, and here the gradual transition between the anterior e])ithelium and the lens fibres is seen (Fig. 506). The lens becomes enveloped in a vascular tunic, which receives its vessels from the arteria centralis retinae and from the vessels of the iris. The front part of this tunic forms the membrana pupillaris, and this, like the rest of the tunic, disapjtears before birth. The hollow stalk of the optic cup becomes solid by the thickening of its walls and the obliteration of its cavit}^ and, acquiring nerve fibres, becomes the optic nerve. These nerve fibres are mostly centripetal, and are derived from the nerve-cells of the retina: but a few are centrifugal and have their origin in the brain. The further development of the retina resembles, in certain respects, that of the spinal cord. Some of the epithelial cells of the retinal layer become elongated and branched spongioblasts, and are developed into the sustentacular fibres of Miiller and their limiting membranes ; while others, neuroblasts, give rise to the nervous elements. The rods and cones make their appearance in the human embryo about the end of the fifth month (Falchi), but not until after birth in the cat and rabbit (M. Schultze). The condensed mesoderm surrounding the optic cup becomes the sclera and chorioid. In the portion of the mesoderm which lies in front of the lens a cleft-like fissure appears, and divides it into a thick anterior and a thin posterior layer. The former becomes the substantia propria of the cornea; the latter, the stroma of the iris and anterior part of the vascular tunic of the lens. The fissure represents the futnre anterior chamber, and its lining cells form the laj'er of endothelium on the back of the cornea and front of the iris. The eyelids arise as two integumentary folds above and below the cornea, each being- covered on both its surfaces by the ectoderm. By the third month the folds meet and unite with each other at their edges, the eyelids being only permanently opened shortly, before birth ; in many animals they are not opened until after birth. The ectoderm / forms the epithelium of the conjunctiva and the stratified epithelium of the cornea. It is also invaginated at the lid margins to form the hair follicles and the lining ceils of the Meibomian glands and glands of Moll, and, at the fornix conjunctiv;e, to form the liuing of the alveoli and ducts of the lachi'ymal gland. The nasal duct, lachrymal sac, and canals represent the remains of the furrow which extends from the inner angle of the eye to the nasal cavity between the superior maxillary and lateral nasal processes (p. 38). It is at first filled by a solid rod of cells, which becomes hollowed out to form the duct and canals. ()ptic stalk Gliorioiflal issure Fio. 508.-—Oi'Tic Cup and Lens virwkd FRDM BEmND AND BuLOW, to sllOW formation o^ chorioidal fissure and enclosure of the arteria centralis re- tin;e (Irom model liy Ziegler). THE EAE. The ear or organ of hearing (organon auditus, Fig. 509) consists of three por- tions—external, middle, and inte;nal, the last const.tuting its essential part, as -within it are distributed the peripheral terminations of the auditory nerve.