1072 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Veil, join the ccntrul or intruloluiliir vein (Fig. 721). 'Iliis vnn« down tlu-ough tlie centre of the lolxile (Fig. 720, A), and openis at it« base into a snblobuhir vein. The snblobnlar veins, uniting and growing larger by constant additions, finally form the liepatic veins, wliicii open into the vena cava. Hepatic Cells. — In the intervals be- tween the branches of the capillaries, lunning from the interlobular to the intralobular veins (Fig. 721), ai-e placed tlie polygonal-shaped, epithelial, hepatic cells. Between the cells run the bile canaliculi (ductus Ijiliferi) which, passing- out of tiic lobule (Fig. 721), join the interlobular bile - ducts (ductus inter- lobulai'es), and these miiting, finally end in the hepatic ducts. Development of the Liver. In man, the liver first appears as two hollow outgrowths from the ventral wall of the foregut, in the position of the future duodenum. These outgrowths, which are formed entirely of entoderm (hypoblast), pass forward and upward into a mass of mestxloraiic tissue—called by His the septum transversum—which branches of the hepatic vein ; B, Section df a portal lies in front of the foregut just below canal showing its contained branches of the portal ^ij^ j^^ addition to constituting Bile-iluct Fk; 20.—Dl.\l;liAJlS U.LUISTRATIN(; THE Sl li IICTUliK OF Liver. Arrangement of liver lobules around the suldobuhir vein, hepatic artery, and bile-duct, surrounded V)y a prolongation of Glisson's capsule. the mesodermic bed in which the liver is developed, tliis mass also forms the chief rudiment of the future diaphragm ; tln-ougii it, too, pass tiie great foetal veins on their way to the heart. The two outgrowths give oft' numerous solid buds of endodermic cells—known as liepatic cylinders — which grow into the tissue of the septum transversum, and there Interlobular 7 veins ' and duct Ct'iitral vein Ve.iTls Bile ducts Fio. 72L—Dl.\GEAM illustrating the arrangement of the blood-vessels (on left), and of the hepatic cells and bile-ducts (on right) within a lobule of the liver. The first diagram shows the interlobular veins running around the o\itside of the lobule, and sending their capillaries into tlie lobule to join the central vein. In the second diagram the bile capillaries are seen, with the hepatic cells between them, radiating to the periphery of the lobule, where they join the interlobular bile-ducts. branch and anastomose freely with one another, forming a complicated network, the meshes of whicii are occupied by blood-vessels. From the sides of these primarj^ hepatic cylinders come off secondar}' cell buds, which similarly branch and anastomose; and this process is continued until the mass of the liver is formed.