THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. 554 posterior commissure. In front of these structures the roof of the fore-brain is epithelial, and remains so during life. It constitutes the epithelial roof of the third ventricle, and it becomes involuted along the middle line into the cavity hy the choroid plexuses of the ventricle. The posterior commissure appears as a transverse thickening at the bottom of a transverse groove which appears in the roof of the early brain-tube behind the pineal diverticulum. Cerebral Hemisphere.—The cerebral hemisphere is derived entirely from the alar section of the lateral wall of the telencephalon. From this it grows out and soon assumes very large dimensions. At first it grows forwards and upwards, and a distinct fissure, the early incisura longitudinal is cerebri, appears between the cerebral hemispheres of opposite sides. The separation of the two cerebral vesicles by the longitudinal fissure begins at the end of the first month. This fissure becomes occupied by mesoblastic tissue, RECESS CHIASMA Fig. 412.—Two Drawings by His, illustrating tlie development of the human brain. A, Median section through a fcetal human brain in the thii'J mouth of development. B, Schema showing the directions in which the cerebral hemisphere expands during its growth. P.M.H. Pars mammillaris hypothalami. M. Mammillary region. 0. Occipital lobe. P.O.H. Pars optica hypotlialami. F. Frontal lobe. T. Temporal lobe. P. Parietal lobe. which later on forms the falx cerebri. The cerebral hemisphere, in its further growth, is carried progressively backwards over the hinder parts of the developing brain. At the end of the third month it has covered the optic thalamus. A month later it reaches the corpora quadrigemina, and by the seventh month it has not only covered these but also the entire upper surface of the cerebellum. At the end of the first month the rhinencephalon or nasal brain begins to be marked ofif from the cerebral vesicle. It is situated below the cerebral vesicle, and is joined to the corresponding region of the opposite side by the lamina cinerea. Very soon the rhinen- cephalon is divided by a constriction or furrow, termed by His the. Jissura prima, into an anterior and a posterior part. From the anterior part the olfactory tract and bulb grows out in the form of a hollow diverticulum, whilst the basal part of the same division of the rhinencephalon forms the olfactory trigone and the area of Broca (p. 528). The posterior part of the rhinencephalon furnishes the anterior perforated space and the gyrus subcallosus. In the floor of the hollow cerebral hemisphere a thickening takes origin, and this ultimately is developed into the corpus striatum. On the outer surface of the vesicle this thickening is seen to correspond to a depression which constitutes the early Sylvian fossa, the further development of which is described on p. 515. In the earlier stages of its development the cerebral hemisphere is a thin-walled vesicle with a relatively large cavity, which represents the primitive condition of the lateral ventricle. At first the vesicle is bean-shaped and the cavity is curved. At this stage the outline is very similar to that presented by the cerebral hemisphere of a quadruped, and there is little or no trace of an occipital lobe or of a posterior horn of the lateral ventricle. As development goes on, however, the occipital portion of the hemis])here grows backwards over the cerebellum in the shape of a hollow protrusion, and a distinct occipital lobe enclosing the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle is the result. This developmental stage, which is distinctive of man and the apes, begins about the fourth month. On the mesial aspect of the cerebral hemisphere, in the early stages of its development, an invagination of the wall of the vesicle takes place into the cavity immediately above