THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 468 or notch. The posterior notch (incisura cerebelli posterior) is smaller and narrower than the anterior notch. It is bonnded laterally by the lateral hemispheres, whilst its bottom is formed by the median lobe or vermis. It is occupied by a fold of dura mater, called the falx cerebelli. The anterior notch (incisura cerebelli anterior) is wide and shallow, and, when viewed from above, it is seen to be occupied by the Tuber valvula; Posterior notch Fig. 348.—Upper Surface of the Cerebellum. inferior quadrigeminal bodies and by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum. As in the case of the hinder notch, its sides are formed by the lateral hemispheres and the bottom by the vermis. On the superior surface of the cerebellum there is little distinction to be noted between the median lobe and the upper surface of each lateral hemisphere. On this aspect the median lobe receives the name of superior vermis, and it forms a high median elevation, from which the surface slopes gradually downwards on each side to the margin of the hemisphere. The superior vermis is highest in front, immediately behind the anterior notch, and from this it inclines dowuwai^ds towards the posterior notch. This elevation of the superior worm is frequently called the monticulus cerebelli. The folia on the surface of the superior vermis are thicker and fewer in number than those on the upper surface of the lateral hemisphere. It is this which gives it the worm-like appearance from which it derives its name. On the inferior surface of the cerebellum the distinction between the three constituent parts of the organ is much better marked (Fig. 349). On this aspect the lateral hemispheres a,re full, prominent, and convex, and are separated by a deep mesial hollow, which is continued forwards from the posterior notch. This hollow is termed the vallecula cerebelli, and in its fore-part is lodged the medulla oblongata. When the medulla is raised and the lateral hemispheres are pulled apart, so as to expose the bottom of the vallecula, it will be seen that this is formed by the vermis inferior, and, further, that the latter is separated on each side from the corresponding lateral hemisphere by a distinct furrow, termed the sulcus valleculse. Sulci Cerebelli.—Certain of the fissures which traverse the surface of the cerebellum are deeper and longer than the others, and they map out districts which are termed lobes. The most conspicuous of all these clefts is the great horizontal fissure. The great horizontal fissure (sulcus horizontalis cerebelli) of the cerebellum begins in front and passes continuously round the circumference of the organ, cutting deeply into its outer and posterior margin. In front, its lips diverge to enclose the three cerebellar peduncles as they pass into the interior of the cerebellum. The great horizontal fissure divides the organ into an upper and a lower part, which may be studied separately.