1098 UROGENITAL SYSTEM. Syiniiliysis pubis Corpus Bulb of uretliva / ■'/' uiusclf Internal sphincter ani External sphinctpr ani Anal canal Exteiiial siiliinctfr ani empty, it extends u])\vanls into the alHlomiiial cavity. Its anterior aspect is in contact witli the ])osterior surface of the anterior abdominal wall. At hirth the peritoneum forming the recto-vesieal pouch covers the whole of the posterior sur- face of the l)la(lder, and reaches as low as the upper limit of the prostate. The internal urethral orifice is placed at a high level, and sinks gradually after birth (Fig. 74(j, A). In the newly-born child this opening lies on a level with the upper margin ()f tlie symphysis puliis, and the openings of the ureters lie almost on a level with the plane of the pelvic brim. The obliterated hypogastric arteries are more intimately related to the bladder in the fcetus and child than in the adult, and lie close against its sides as they pass upwards towards the umbilicus (Fig. 757). Interior of the Bladder.—The mucous memltrane lining the bladder is but loosely con- nected to the mus- cular coat,and when the bladder is con- tracted the mucous is thrown number of prominent wrinkles or folds (Fig. 747). At one place only the mucous mem- l)rane is firmly con- nected to the sub- jacent muscular coat, and the inner surface of this part of the bladder wall is smooth and free from wrinkles, a triano'ular surface lilaildcr Synipliysis pubi Vagina- Urethra Carina \n'ethrali LabiniM ntiiiu Uterus -Rectum lining into a Internal sphincter ani -External sphincter ani Anal canal External sphincter ani Fig. 746.—Mesial Section through the Pelvis of newly-born Child. A, Male, and B, Female. From preparations in the Anatomical Department, Trinity College, Dublin. This smooth area, called tlie trigonum vesicae, corresponds to l)ehind tlie urethral orifice and to tlie part of the liladder wall whicli immediately surrounds the opening. The base of the triangle is formed by a line drawn lietween the openings of the ureters into the l)ladder, and the apex lies at the lieginning of the urethra. Just behind the urethral opening the bladder wall bulges slightly into the cavity, owing to the presence beneath it of the middle lobe of the prostate. When well marked, as it often is in old people, this elevation is termed the uvula vesicae. Stretching across between the openings of the ureters there is usually to be seen a smootli curved ridge, which is due to the presence of a bundle of transversely-disposed muscle fibres within this part of the bladder wall, beneath the mucous membrane. The lateral portions of this ridge are called the