1031 THE COLON. CEecuni certain fossfe, of which the most interesting and important are—(«) the retro- caical or retro-colic fosssu; (b) the ileo-cjecal fossa; and (<•) the ileo-colic fossa. The retro-colic fossae (Fig. 698, B) are only occasionally present, and are exposed by turning the caecum and adjacent part of the ileum upwards. Two forms, external and internal, are described; the first lies behind the outer part of the ascending colon, immediately above the caecum; the second behind its inner part. These fossae are specially interesting because, when present, they frequently lodge the vermiform pro- cess (see Fig. 698, B), a condition which is said to favour the production of appendicitis. Ileo-caecal Fossa and Fold.—If the appendix be drawn down, and the finger run towards the cfecum, along the lo^oer border of the terminal part of the ileum, its point will generally run into a fossa situated in the angle between the ileum and caecum (Fig. 698, A)j wiiich is known as the ileo-caecal fossa. The fold which bounds the fossa in front is the ileo-caecal fold (the " bloodless fold of Treves "). It passes from the ileum to the front of the meso-appendix, which latter forms the posterior wall of the fossa. Ileo-colic Fold and Fossa.—Similarly, if the finger be run out along the ujjjxr border of the ileum towards the caecum, it will usually lodge in a smaller fossa, the ileo-colic, which Fig. 698.—The C^ecal Folds and Fossj?. In A, the c:eeum is viewed from the front ; the mesentery of the appendi.'c is distinct, and is attached above to tlie nnder surface of the portion of the mesentery going to the end of the ileum. In B, the caBcnm is turned upwards to show a retro-caecal fossa, wliioh lies behind it and the beginning of the ascending colon. is bounded in front by a small peritoneal process, the ileo-colic fold (Fig. 698, A), containing the anterior caecal arterj'. THE COLON. The ascending colon (colon ascendens) begins about the level of the inter- tubercular line, opposite the ileo-cfecal orifice, where it is continuous with the caecum. From this it runs upwards and somewhat backwards, with a slight concavity to the left, until it reaches the under surface of the liver, where it bends forwards and to the left, and passes into the hepatic flexure (Fig. 699). In its course it lies in the angle between the quadratus lumhorum behind, and the more pn'ominent psoas internally (F"ig. 673). It is situated chiefly in the right lumbar region, but it extends slightly into the hypochondrium above; and, although it usually begins about the level of the intertubercular line, still with a low position of the cfecum it will extend further d(jwn, and may occupy a considerable part of the iliac region. Its length is about 8 inches (20 cm.), and it is wider and much more prominent than the descending colon. It generally presents several minor curves or flexures, and it often has the appearance of being pushed into a space which is too short to accommodate it. Relations.—In front, it is usually in contact with tlie abdominal wall, but the small intestine frequently intervenes, particularly al)0ve (Fig. 670). To its inner