1146 UEOGENITAL SYSTEM. fused posterior parts, whicli at first open into the urogenital canal, give rise to the uterus and vagina. The manner in which the original position of the opening of the Miillerian ducts becomes shifted, by the shortening of the urogenital canal, so as to appear at the bottom of the urogenital fissure, has already been described. The vaginal portion of the fused Miillerian ducts is at first relatively very short, and at the point where it opens into the urogenital canal a slight fold appears, which is the future hymen. The vagina increases rapidly in length as its opening moves downwards towards the urogenital cleft. The Wolffian ducts and the mesonephros atrophy in the female, but traces of them are to be found in the longitudinal canal of the parovarium and paroophoron of the adult. In the fa3tus the Wolffian duct can ))e traced along each side of the \iterus as far as the upper end of the A'agina. Prostate.—Tlie glandular portion of the prostate arises as a series of solid out- growths from tlic epithelium of the urogenital canal during the third month. The outgrowths, which are at first- simple, become branched and finally acquire a lumen. They are arranged in three groups—an upper and a lower dorsal group, and a ventral. The glands of the ventral group soon become reduced in number and often completely disappear. Cowper's glands are also developed from the epithelium of the urogenital canal. Tlie glands of Bartholin arise as outgrowths from the epithelium of the urogenital canal. External Genital Organs.—The external genital organs are developed in the region of the ectodermal cloacal fossa, and those of the male and female can only be distinguished from one another after the ninth week. The fossa is at first shallow, but soon, by the formation of prominent lateral boundaries, it becomes much deeper. These lateral eminences i-eceivo the name of outer genital or labio-scrotal folds, and enclose between them the genital eminence and the urogenital opening (Fig. 783). The urogenital opening is at this time a mesial cleft and its margins form a second pair of much smaller folds called the inner genital folds. The genital eminence which is situated at the upper or anterior end of the fossa, appears very early, even before the cloaca becomes divided into rectal and urogenital subdivisions. Its summit is somewhat enlarged, and its posterior surface presents a groove which leads into the urogenital opening. The genital eminence gives origin to the terminal portion of the clitoris in the female and of the penis in the male, the enlarged extremity becoming the glans in each case. In the female the interval between outer genital folds becomes the urogenital cleft of the adult, the outer folds the labia ma'ora, and the inner folds the labia minora. The groove on the posterior aspect of the clitoris becomes closed, but does not form a canal. In the male, on the other hand, the cloacal fossa becomes roofed over by the meeting together of its lateral boundaries to enclose a canal which becomes the spongy part of the urethra. The outer genital folds, meeting in a median raphe, form the scrotum. The groove on the posterior aspect of the genital eminence becomes by the fusion of its margins the terminal portion of the male urethra. THE MAMMAEY GLANDS. The mammary glands (mammae) or breasts are accessory organs connected with the female reproductive system. Each gland is situated in the superficial fascia covering the anterior aspect of the thorax, and usually extends from the level of the second to that of the sixth ril). The hemispherical projection formed by the gland lies upon the superficial aspect of the pectoralis major and to a small extent upon the serratus magnus muscle. Near the summit of each mammary elevation, and usually at the level of the fourth rib, is placed the wart-like nipple (papilla mammse), which is pierced by the minute openings of tlie lactiferous ducts and surrounded by a coloured circular area called the areola. The skin covering the nipple is thrown into numerous wrinkles, while on the areola there are many minute rounded projections due to the presence I)eneath of cutaneous glands. These have received the name of Montgomery's glands or glandulse areolares, and are con- sidered to represent rudimentary portions of the mammary gland. The colour of the nipple and areola varies with the complexion of the individual, but in young sul ijects they are usually of a somewhat rosy-pink colour, wliich changes to a deep brown during the second and third months of first pregnaiu'v. During pregnancy