233 THE ASTKAGALUS. Tendo Acliillis Plantari.s Peroneus brevis (Fawcett, Ed. Med. Journ., 1895). Over the external border the cartilage-covered surface is continuous externally with an extensive area of the form of a quadrant. This is concave from above downwards, and articulates with the inner surface of the fibular malleolus. Its inferior angle is prominent and somewhat everted, and some- times referred to as the external process (pro- cessus lateralis tali). The inner aspect of the body has a comma- shaped facet, confluent with the superior articular surface, over the inner edge of the trochlea; this articu- lates with the outer surface of the tibial malleolus. Inferior to this the bone is rough and pitted by numerous small openings, and just below the tail of the comma there is a circular impression for the attachment of the deep fibres of the inter- nal lateral ligament. On the inferior surface there is a deep concave facet, called the pos- terior calcaneal! facet (facies calcanea articu- laris posterior), which is of more or less oval or oblong form and is placed obliquely from behind forwards and outwards; this rests upon a corresponding surface on the upper aspect of the os calcis. In front of this, and crossing the bone from within outwards and forwards, is a deep furrow (sulcus tali), the floor of which is pierced by numerous large canals. It serves for the attach- ment of the strong in- terosseous ligament which unites the astra- galus with the OS calcis, and separates the facet already described from a smaller oval articular surface having a slightly convex surface, which lies im- mediately in front of it. This is called the middle calcanean facet (facies articu- laris calcanea media), and articulates with the upper surface of the sustentaculum tab of the os calcis. Posteriorly the body is provided with two tubercles, separated by a groove; the external of these (processus posterior tali) is usually the larger Extensorfs iligitorum Extensor proprius lialluois Third or terminal phalanx Fig. 173.—Bomes of the Rkiht Foot as seen from Above.