THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. spinal curd. Tliis uracliuoitlal sac is most capacious towards its lower part, where it envelopes the lower end of the cord and the collection of long nerve-roots which constitute tlie cauda equina. As the nerves, both from the brain and the cord, pass outwards they receive an investment from the arachnoid, wliich runs for a sliort distance upon them and then comes to an end. Subarachnoid Space (cavum subarachnoidale).—The interval between the arachnoidea and the pia mater receives the name of tlie subarachnoid space. It contains the cerebro-spinal fluid, and communicates freely through certain well- defined apertures with the ventricular cavities in the interior of the brain. Three of these (viz. the foramen of Majendie and another at the extremity of each lateral recess) are in connexion witli the fourth ventricle; two are slit-like openings into the lateral ventricles, and are placed at the extremity of each descending horn. Within the cranium the subarachnoid space is broken up by a mesh work of fine filaments and trabeculse, which connects the two bounding membranes (viz. the arachnoidea and the pia mater) in the most intimate manner, and forms a delicate sponge-like interlacement between them. Where tlie arachnoidea passes over the summit of a cerebral convolution, and is consequently closely applied to the sub- jacent pia mater, the mesliwork is so dense and the trabecuhie so short that it is liardly possible to discriminate between the two membranes. To all intents and purposes they form in these localities one lamina. In the intervals between the rounded margins of adjoining convolutions, however, distinct angular spaces exist, where the sulmrachnoid tral)ecular tissue can be studied to great advantage. These intervals on the surface of the cerelirum constitute numerous communicating channels which serve for the free passage of the subarachnoid fiuid from one part of the brain to another. The larger branches of the arteries and veins of tlie brain traverse the subarachnoid space; their walls are directly connected wdth the sub- arachnoid trabeculte, and are bathed by subarachnoid fiuid. In certain situations within the ci'anium the arachnoidea is separated from the pia mater by intervals of consideral)le width and extent. These expanded ^lortions of the subarachnoid space are termed cisternse subarachnoidales. In these the sub- arachnoid tissue is much reduced. There is no longer a close meshwork; the trabecula' connecting the two bounding membranes take the form of long fila- mentous intersecting threads which traverse the spaces. All the subarachnoid cisterns communicate in the freest manner witli each other and also witli the narrow channels on the surface of the cerebrum. Certain of these cisterns require special mention. The largest and most conspieuoii.s is tlie cisterna magna. It is formed liy the arachnoid memhraue hiidging over tlie wide interval between tlie hack part of the luiih^r surface of the cei-elwlhim and the medulla. It is continuous througli the foramen magnum with the ])osterior part of the wide subarachnoid sjiace of the cord. The cisterna pontis is the continuation ujiwards on the Hoor of the cranium of the anterior ])art of the subarachnoid space of the sjiinal cord. In the region of the medulla it is continuous behind witli the cisterna magna, so that this subdivision c)f the biain, like the spinal cord, is surrounded hy a M'ide suljarachnoid sjjace. Ill front of the jions A'arolii the arachnoidea bridges across between the i)rojecting temporal loljes, and covers in the deeji hollow in this region of the brain. Tliis sjjace is called the cisterna basalis, and within it are pLiced tlie large arteries which take part in the formation of the circle of Willis. Leading out from the cisterna basalis there are certain wide suljarachnoid channels. Two of these are jn'olonged into the Sjdvian fissures, and in these are accommodated the middle cerebral arti%i'ies. Anteriorly the basal cistern passes into a sjjace in front of the optic chiasma, and from this it is continued into the great longitudinal fissure abo\ e the corjius callosum. In this suliarachnoid ])assage the anterior cerebral arteries are lodgeil. The spinal part- of the subarachnoid space is a very wide interval wliich is partially sul)divided into compartments by three incomplete septa. One of these is a mesial partition called the septum posticum, which connects the pia mater covering the ])osteri()r aspect of the cord with the arachnoid mater. In tlie upper part of the cervical region the septum posticum is imperfect, and is merely repre- sented by some strands passing between the two membranes; in the lower part of the cervical region and in the dorsal region it liecomes toleraldy complete. The other two septa are formed l)y the ligamenta denticulata wliicli spread outwards from eitlier side of tlie spinal cord. These will be described with the yiia mater.