THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 440 are finally joined togetlier by a short commissural portion, termed the optic chiasma. The optic nerve is continued forwards and outwards, on either side, from the chiasma and tract. The crura cerebri, the optic tract, and the optic chiasma enclose a deep rhomboidal or lozenge-shaped interval on the base of the brain, which is termed the interpeduncular space. Within the limits of this area the following parts may be seen as we pass from behind forwards: (1) the locus perforatus posticus; (2) the corpora manmiillaria; (3) the tuber cinereum and the stalk of the pituitary body. At its posterior angle, immediately in front of the pons Varolii, the inter- peduncular space is very deep and is floored by a layer of gray matter, which is perforated by numerous small apertures. This is the locus perforatus posticus. Through the apertures which are dotted over its surface the small postero-mesial basal branches of the posterior cerebral artery enter the brain. The corpora mammillaria are two small white pea-like eminences placed side by side in front of the locus perforatus posticus. The tuber cinereum is a slightly raised field of gray matter, which occupies the interval between the anterior portions of the optic tracts in front of the corpora mammillaria. Springing from the fore-part of the tuber cinereum, immediately behind the optic chiasma, is the infundibulum, or the stalk which connects the pituitary body with the base of the brain. Outside the limits of the fore-part of the interpeduncular space there is on either side a small depressed triangular field of gray matter, which leads outwards into the Sylvian fissure. It is perforated by the antero-mesial and the antero- lateral groups of basal arteries, and receives the name of the locus perforatus anticus. General Connexions of the Several Parts of the Brain. — The medulla oblongata, the pons Varolii, and the cerebellum occupy the posterior cranial fossa, and they are separated from the cerebral hemispheres which lie above them by a partition of dura mater, termed the tentorium cere- belli. Further, they surround a cavity, a portion of the primitive cavity of the early nei;ral tube, which is termed the fourth ventricle of the Ijrain, and they all stand in intimate connexion with each other. The medulla is for the most part carried upwards into the pons Varolii; but at the same time two large strands from its dorsal aspect, termed the restiform bodies, are prolonged into the cerebellum, and constitute its inferior peduncles, or the chief bonds of union between the medulla and the cerebellum. -ScHEMA,^^.owi„g the^coimexions of the several ^j^^ ^^^^ y^^^^j.• j^^^ j^^^^ numbers of transverse fibres entering into its composition, and the great majority of these are gathered together on either side in the form of a large rope-like strand. This plunges into the corresponding hemisphere of the cerebellum, and constitutes its middle peduncle. The cerebrum, which forms the great mass of the brain, occupies the anterior and middle cranial fossfe, and extends backwards into the occipital region above the tentorium and the cerebellum. The greater part of the cerebrum is formed by the cerebral hemisplieres, which are separated from each other in the mesial plane by the great longitudinal fissure. At the bottom of this fissure.is the corpus callosum, a broad commissural band which connects the two hemispheres with each other. Each liemisphere is hollow, the cavity in its interior being termed the lateral ventricle of the brain. Between and below the cerebral hemispheres, and almost Meseiiceplialon Superior cerebellar peduncle Middle cerebellar peduncle Inferior cerebellar peduncle Fig. 326.