LATEEAL YENTRICLE. 533 Great lon"itudinal tissure Corpus callosuin (genu) Anterior horn of lateral ventricle Caudate nucleus Caudate nucleus (in section) Corpus eallosum (genu) Great longitudinal fissure Fig. 395.—Coronal Section thkough the Frontal Lobes and the Anterior Horns of the Lateral Ventricles. outline, the floor sloping upwards and outwards to meet the roof at an acute angle. It is bounded in front by the posterior surface of the genu of the corpus callosuin; the roof is also formed by the corpus eallosum. The inner wall, which is vertical, is formed by the septum lucidum; whilst the sloping floor presents a marked elevation or bulging, viz. the smooth, rounded, and prominent extremity of the pear-shaped caud- ate nucleus. Body of the Lateral Ventricle (pars centralis).—• The body of the cavity is likewise roofed by the corpus eallosum. On the inner or mesial side it is bounded by the attachment of the fornix to the under surface of the cor- pus eallosum and by the hinder part of the septum lucidum. On the outer side it is closed, as in the case of the anterior horn, by the meeting of the floor and the roof of the cavity. On the floor a number of important objects may be recognised. From without inwards these are met in the following order: (1) the caudate nucleus; (2) a groove which extends obliquely from before backwards and outwards between the caudate nucleus and the optic thalamus, and in which are placed the vein of the corpus striatum and a white band called the tainia semicircularis ; (3) a portion of the upper surface of the optic thalamus; (4) the choroid plexus; (5) the thin sharp lateral edge of the fornix. The caudate nucleus narrows rapidly as it proceeds backwards on the outer part of the floor of the body of the lateral ventricle. The vein of the corpus striatum is covered over by ependyma. It joins the vein of Galen close to the foramen of Monro. The connexions of the taenia semicircularis will be dealt with later. The portion of the upper surface of the optic thalamus which appears in the floor of the ventricle is in great part hidden by the choroid plexus, which lies upon it. The choroid plexus is a rich vascular fringe which appears from under cover of the sharp lateral edge of the fornix. In front it is continuous, behind the foramen of Monro, with the corresponding choroid plexus of the opposite side, whilst behind, it is carried into the descending horn of the ventricle. Although the choroid plexus has all the appearance of lying free within the ventricle, it must be borne in mind that it is invested by an epithelial layer which represents a portion of the hemi- sphere wall and excludes it from the cavity. This thin layer is continuous on the one hand with the sharp edge of the fornix, and on the other it is attached to the upper surface of the optic thalamus. Posterior Horn of the Lateral Ventricle (cornu posterius).—The posterior horn is an elongated diverticulum carried backwards into the occipital lobe from the hinder end of the body of the ventricle. It tapers to a point and describes a gentle curve, the convexity of which is directed outwards. The roof and outer wall of this portion of the ventricular cavity are formed by the tapetum of the corpus eallosum. In coronal sections through the occipital lobe this is seen as a thin but distinct layer of white fibres, which lies immediately outside the ependyma and to the inner 34 a