THE MUSCLES IN THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. 363 The adductor transversus hallucis arises from (1) the capsules of the outer four metatarso-phalangeal articulations and (2) the transverse metatarsal ligament. Directed transversely inwards, under cover of the flexor tendons and lumbricales, the muscle is inserted, along with the adductor obliquus (from which it is separated by an angular interval), into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The flexor brevis minimi digiti (m. flexor brevis digiti quinti) arises from (1) the sheath of the peroneus longus, and (2) the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Partially concealed by the adductor minimi digiti, the muscle passes along the fifth metatarsal bone, to be inserted, in common with that muscle, into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. The interossei muscles of the foot resemble those of the hand except in one respect. In the hand the line of action of the muscles is the middle line of the middle finger. In the foot the second toe is the digit round which the muscles are grouped, and their attach- ments and actions differ accordingly. There are four dorsal and three plantar muscles, which occupy together the four inter- osseous spaces, and pro- ject into the hollow of the foot. The four dorsal mus- cles, one in each inter- osseous space, arise by two heads each from the shafts of the metatarsal bones. Each gives rise to a tendon, which, after passing above the trans- verse metatarsal liga- ment, is inserted on the dorsum of the foot into the side of the first phalanx, the metatarso-phalangeal capsule, and the dorsal expansion of the extensor tendon. The first and second muscles are inserted into the second toe on the tibial and fibular sides respectively. The third and fourth muscles are inserted into the third and fourth toes on their fibular sides. The three plantar muscles occupy the three outer interosseous spaces. Each arises by a single head from the tibial side of the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones respectively. Each ends in a tendon which passes beneath the transverse metatarsal ligament, and is inserted, in the same manner as the dorsal muscles, into the third, fourth, and fifth toes on their tibial side. Fig. 268.—Interosseous Muscles of the Foot. A, Dorsal muscles of the left foot : B, Plantar muscles of the rieht foot. Nbbvb-Supplt of the Muscles of the Leg and Foot. Muscles. Tibialis anticus Extensor proprius haUucis Extensor longus digitoruni Peroneus tertius Peroneus longus Peroneus brevis Extensor brevis digitorum Plantaris Popliteus Gastrocnemius Soleus .... Nerves. I anterior tibial . j-musculo-cutaneous anterior tibial . tibial. Origin. VL. 4. 5. S. 1. L. 4. 5. S. 1. } |S. 1. 2.