THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 978 The following statement is simple, and perhaps is sufficient for all ordinary purposes. The temporary teeth usually appear in the following order:—Central incisors, lateral incisors, first niolars, canines and second molars; the erujition commences between the sixth and the ninth month, and is usually completed by the twenty-fourth—the lower teetii, as a rule, preceding the upper. Formation of Enamel and Dentine.—Different opinions are held as to the method in wliicli the enamel is produced )iy the enamel cells. One view maintains that it is secreted and shed out by the enamel cells (Kcilliker). According to the other view, part of the substance of the cells is actually converted or transformed into enamel (Tomes). In comiexion with this latter view, which .seems to receive more supjjort at ])resent, Tomes has disco\ered that there ])ro- jects from the base of eacli enamel cell, towards or into the most recently formed enamel, a fibrillar process, wdiich has received the name of Tomes' process, and he liolds that tiie enamel is formed by calcification taking jjlace in or around the process. Similarly, two views are held as to the j)roductiou of dentine liy the odontoblasts; one, that the odontoljlasts secrete the matrix of the dentine, and the other, that their substance is actually converted into the matrix. The odontoblasts, when active, are Ijranched columnar-shaped cells, and from their outer ends one or more jjrocesses extend towards and into the dentine ; Ijetween these processes a matrix apjiears—pi'oduced probably by the odontoblasts—and soon this matrix becomes calcified. In this way the dentine is formed, and the process is repeated ludil its full thickness is attained. The branches of the odontoblasts, encased in dentine, just mentioned, are the Tomes' filirils already de.scribed ; tlie canals in which they lie are the dentinal tul)es ; and the tiln-ils themselves are concerned in the ])roduction of the slieaths of Neumann which line the tubes. The tooth-sacs, when fully developed, are large and distinct fibrous bags which lie in the alveoli of the maxilla and are continuous above with the tissue of the gum. On the lingual side of the sacs of the milk teeth are found the germs of the permanent teeth, surrounded by their own sacs. These latter are at fii'st very small, and are partly embedded in the posterior wall of the temporary tooth-sacs, but subsequently they come to lie in distinct but incomplete bony cavities of their own. The bone surrounding the tooth-sacs, temporary and permanent, is always wanting over the summit of the sac, and the band of connective tissue by which the sac is connected with the overlying gum tissue, through the deficiency, is known as the gubernaculum dentis. These points are easily demonstrated on the lower jaw of a child at birth, particularly when the tissues have been allowed to soften a little. If, in such a specimen, the gum and periosteum be reflected upwards from the outer and inner surfaces of the mandible, and freed as far as the upper border of the jaw, the giim, with the tooth-sacs depending from it like small bags, can be pulled away out of the bony groove of the jaw; and if the operation has been successfully performed, the tooth-sacs of the three front permanent teeth may be seen, varying in size from a small pin's-head to a hemp- seed, hanging down behind the upper part of the corresponding temporary sacs. As already explained, the tooth-sacs are procluced simply by a condensation of the connective tissue around the developing tooth, the condensation going on to the formation of a dis- tinct membranous bag. Formation of Alveoli and Eruption.—At first the develophig teeth lie in an open bony groove or channel between the outer and inner plates of the young jaw. Tliis groove is subsecpiently divided up into separate compartments for the sacs of each of the temporary teeth. As development proceeds these compartments or alveoli siuTound the sacs more completely, but never actually close over the summit. When the eruption of the temporary teeth is about to take place, the anterior wall and roof of the alveolus are absorbed ; the tooth passes through the sac and ajjpears above the gum, and then the alveolus, which up to this was much too large to give actual support, is re-formed more closely around the tooth. Meanwdiile the root, which was only partly formed at the time of the eruption, contiiuies to be added to, possibly for a few" years more, and, as it grows, the alveolus is completed around it. When the permanent tooth, or as much of it as is then formed, is about to be erupted, it makes its way from its own bon}' cell througli the posterior wall of the alveolus of its temporary jjredecessor ; the root of the temporary tooth undergoes absorption at the same time, but quite independently of pressure from the permanent tooth. The alveolus, now occupied by both teeth, is again much enlarged by absorption, particularly in front; what remains of the temporary tooth is shed; the permanent tooth passes onwards through the enlarged alveolus, and, making its way to the surface, appears above the gum. After some time, when the tooth has taken its final position, the alveolus is again re-formed, first around its neck, and later on, as the root is built up, around it also, and thus the tooth is permanently fixed. What the force is which causes the eruption, is a question that has not been answered satisfactorily. That the growth of the root pushes uj) the crown was until recently the