1101 THE BLADDEE. ligaments of the bladder, and are described as pubo-prostatic or anterior ligaments, reacliing the bladder from tlie pubis in front, and lateral ligaments, reaching the bladder from the fascial lining of the side wall of the pelvis. In addition to the urachns and the peritoneal and true ligaments already mentioned, the bladder is supported and fixed in position, in the region of its Vesical artery First sacral ^ ertebra Pig. 749.—Mesial Section of the Pelvis in an Adult Male. The foils of snuill intestine which hiy within tlie jjelvis have been lifted out in order to give a view of the side wall of the pelvic cavity. The peritoneum is coloured blue. The separation of the prostate from the bladder is indicated somewhat diagranimatioally. basal surface, by the dense fibrous and unstriped muscular tissue which sur- rounds the seminal vesicles, the terminal portions of tlie vasa deferentia, and the ureters. Laterally the stiauds of connective tissue aud the bundles of muscle fibres forming this sup- povt pass backwards to gain attachment to the fascia in connexion ^\•itl^ the rectum, and the front of the sacrum. Muscle fibres connected with the bladder wall are also found within the pubo-prostatic ligaments, through which they are attached to the pubis. Tn the female the l)asHl part of the bladder wall is supported and held in place by its connexion with the anterior wall of the vagina. The region of the urethral orifice is the most firmly fixed part of the 1 (ladder wall in both sexes. Structure of the Bladder. -The wall of the bladder from without inwards is com- posed of a serous, a muscular, a submucous, and a mucoUs coat. The serous coat (tunica serosa), formed by peritoneum, is incomplete, aud covers only the upper aud posterior parts of the distended bladder (Fig. 742). The muscular coat (tunica muscularis) is composed of- three imperfectly separated strata, called external, middle, aud internal. The external stratum (stratimi externum), in the middle line of the organ, is made up of longitudinally-directed bundles of muscle fibres. These have an attachment in front to the lower part of thd back of the symphysis pubis, where they constitute the musculus pubo-vesicalis. Further from the middle line (on the sides of the bladder) the fibres composing the external stratum run more obliquely, and frequently cross each other. The middle stratum (stratum medium) is composed of