THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 424 Internal Stkucture of the Spinal Cord. Column of GoU Posterior column Column of Bnrdach The spinal cord is composed of a central core of gray matter thickly coated on the outside by white matter. At only one spot does the gray matter come close to the surface, viz. at the bottom of the postero-lateral groove. Gray Matter of the Cord.—The gray matter in the interior of the cord has the form of a Huted column, but it is customary to describe it as it appears in transverse sections through the cord. It then presents the appearance of the capital letter H. In each lateral half of the cord there is a semilunar or crescentic mass, shaped somewhat like a comma, the concavity of wliich is directed outwards and the convexity inwards. The two crescents of opposite sides are connected across the middle line by a transverse band, which receives the name of the gray commissure (commissura grisea). The postero-median fissure cuts through the cord until it reaches the gray commissure. The bottom of the antero-median fissure, however, is separated from it by an intervening strip of white matter, which is termed the anterior white commissure (commissura anterior alba). In the gray commissure may be seen the central canal of the cord (canalis centralis), which tunnels the entire length of the cord and is just visible to the naked eye as a minute speck. The portion of the gray commissure which lies behind the central canal is called the posterior gray commissure (commissura grisea posterior); whilst the portion in front receives the name of the anterior gray commissure (commissura grisea anterior). Each crescentic mass of gray matter presents certain well-defined parts. The projecting portions which extend behind and in front of the connecting transverse gray commissure are termed respectively the posterior and the anterior cornua of gray matter (columnae grisea^). These stand out in marked contrast to each other. The anterior cornu (columna grisea anterior) is short, thick, and very blunt at its extremity. Further, its extremity falls consider- ably short of the surface of the cord and is separated Anterior column from it by a tolerably thick Fig. 319.—Transverse Section through the Upper Part of the coating of white matter. Cervical Region of the Cord. (Froiu a specimen jirepared by Through this the fasciclcS of the Weigert-Pal method, by which the white matter is rendered n,?fp,.inr npvvp rnnt« fl« dark whilst the gray matter is bleached.) anteilOl nene-lOOtS, aS they emerge from the gray matter of the anterior horn, pass on their way to the surface. The thickened end of the anterior cornu is called the caput cornu, whilst the slightly constricted part close to the gray commissure is termed the cervix cornu. Throughout the greater part of the cord the posterior cornu (columna grisea posterior) is elongated and narrow, and is drawn out to a fine point, which almost reaches the bottom of the postero-lateral sulcus. This pointed extremity receives the name of the apex cornu; the slightly swollen part which succeeds it is the caput cornu; whilst the slightly constricted part adjoining the gray commissure goes under the name of the cervix cornu. The apex or tip of the posterior cornu differs considerably in appearance from the general mass of the gray matter. It is composed of a material which presents a lighter hue and has a somewhat translucent look. It is called the substantia gelatinosa Rolandi, and, when seen in transverse section, it exhibits a V-shaped out- line and fits on the caput cornu like a cap. A pointed and prominent triangular projection juts out from the external aspect of gray matter nearly opposite the gray commissure. This is the lateral horn (columna grisea lateralis), and is best marked in the upper dorsal region (Fig. 320,^B). Traced upwards it becomes absorbed in the greatly expanded anterior horn Formatio reticularis Lateral column Central canal Spinal accessory root Origin of spinal accessory nerve Anterior nerve-root