THE VAS DEFEEENS. 1109 the prostate the vas deferens becomes once more a narrow canal, and is joined by the duct of the corresponding seminal vesicle to form the common ejaculatory duct, which, after a short course downwards and forwards through the prostate, opens into the urethra. In some cases the vas deferens crosses the obliterated hypogastric artery before it enters the pelvic cavity ; it normally does so in the fcetiis. Common Ejaculatory Duct (ductus ejaculatorius).—This duct, formed by the union of the vas deferens with the duct of the corresponding seminal vesicle, is less than one inch in length, and lies very close to its fellow of the opposite side as it passes Posterior superior iliac spine Ureter Jreat sciatic notch Vas deferens- Spine of ischium Vas deferens Seminal vpsu-lc Bladder wall Levator am Prostate Iscliio-rectal fossa Tuberosity of ) ischium f Gluteus maximus Posterior superior iliac spine Cut end of rectum Apex of sacrum Great sciatic notch Ureter —Peritoneum -Spine of ischium Bladder wall Seminal vesicle Ampulla of vas deferens ) Cut end of great sacro- i sciatic ligament Common ejaculatory duct Levator ani Tuberosity of ischium Ischio-rectal fossa Cut end of rectum External sphincter ani —Gluteus maxhnus Fig. 755.—View of the Base of the Bladdek, Prostate, Seminal Vesicles, and Vasa Deferentia froji behind. The coccyx aud sacro-sciatic ligaments, togetlier with the muscles attached to them, have been removed. The levatores ani have been separated along the median raphe, and drawn outwards. A considerable portion of the rectum and the upper part of the right seminal vesicle have been taken away. The recto- vesical pouch of peritoneum is coloured blue. through the prostate behind its mesial lol )e. The ducts open by slit-like apertures into the first part of the urethra on each side of the sinus pocularis (utriculus prostaticus). Seminal Vesicles.—The vesiculae seminales, or seminal vesicles, are a pair of hollow sacculated structures placed in front of the rectum and behind the bladder (Fig. 755). Each vesicula seminalis is usually aljout two inches in length, and has its long axis directed downwards, inwards, and somewhat forwards. The upper extremity of the vesicle, which is partly covered by peritoneum* is large and rounded, and lies at a considerable distance from the middle line, liehind the lower end of the ureter. The vesicle tapers towards its lower end, which is placetl