THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 786 cutaneous, lesser internal cutaneous, and ulnar nerves, and in the lower part with the median nerve. Two vena comites, one on each side, accompany the artery, and com- munications between these pass across the vessel. Bkanches of the Brachial Artery. (1) The superior profunda (a. prdfunda brachii) is a large branelj which arises from the inner and back part of the brachial soou after its commencement. It runs downwards and outwards, with the musculo-spiral nerve, in the musculo- spiral groove, and divides at the back of the humerus into two terminal branches, the anterior and the posterior. Not infrequently this division takes }ilace at a higher level, and the artery appears double. The anterior terminal branch accompanies the musculo-spiral nerve through the external intermuscular septum, and descends between the supinator longus and the brachialis anticus to the front of the external condyle, where it anastomoses with the radial recurrent artery. The posterior terminal branch descends behind the external intermuscular septum, and anastomoses behind the external condyle with the posterior interosseous recurrent artery and with the anastomotic artery. Whilst they are lying at the back of the humerus one of the terminal branches gives off—(a) a slender twig, which descends in the substance of the internal head of the triceps to the back of the elbow, where it anastomoses with the anastomotic artery ; (b) a nutrient branch, which enters a foramen ou the posterior surface of the humerus; and (c) an ascending branch, which anastomoses with the descending- branch of the posterior circumflex artery. (2) Muscular branches are given to the Ijiceps, coraco-brachialis, brachialis anticus, triceps, and pronator radii teres. (o) Nutrient.—A small artery which arises from the middle of the brachial and enters the nutrient foramen on the inner side of the shaft of the humerus. (4) The inferior profunda (a. coUateralis ulnaris superior) is smaller than the superior profunda, with which it sometimes rises by a common trunk: usually, however, it springs from the inner and back part of the middle of the brachial. It runs downwards and l)ackwards, with the ulnar nerve, through the internal intermuscular septum, and then, descending more vertically, reaches the back of the internal condyle of the humerus, where it terminates by anastomosing with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anastomotic arteries. (5) The anastomotic (a. collateralis ulnaris inferior) rises from the inner side of the brachial artery about two inches (50 mm.) above its termination. It runs inwards behind the median nerve and in front of the brachialis anticus, it then pierces the internal intermuscular septum, and turns outwards between the inner head of the triceps and the posterior, surface of the bone to the external con- dyle. It supplies the adjacent muscles and anastomoses, in front of the internal condyle, with the anterior ulnar recurrent, behind the internal condyle with tlie posterior ulnar recurrent and the inferior profunda, at the middle of the back of tlie humerus with a branch of the superior profunda, and behind the external condyle with the posterior terminal branch of the superior profunda and the posterior interosseous recurrent artery. The Radial Artery. Tlie radial artery (a. radialis, Figs. 563, 564, and 5G5) is tlie smaller of the two terminal branches of the brachial artery but it is the more direct continuation of the parent trunk. It commences in the ante-cubital fossa opposite the neck of the radius, and terminates in the palm of the hand, by anastomosing with the deep branch of the ulnar artery, and tlius completing the deep pahuar arch. The trunk is divisible into three parts. The Jirst part lies on the front of the forearm. It runs downwards and some- what outwards to the apex of the styloid process of the radius. The second part curves round the outer side of the wrist and across the back of the trapezium to reach the proximal end of the first interosseous space. The third fart pavsses.