UKOGENITAL SYSTEM. 1124 ureter and uteriue vessels. Thus the anterior border of the ovary lies just behind the line of the obliterated hypogastric artery, and the posterior border is on a plane anterior to the ureter (Fig. 770). The inner surface of the ovary is almost completely covered by the Fallopian tube, which, passing upwards on it near its anterior border, arches over the upper pole, and tlien turiis downwards in relation to the posterior border and posterior part of the inner surface (Fig. 770). In some cases the ovary is fovuul to lie beliiud, or more rarely in front, of the fossa described above, and its long axis may be oblique instead of vertical. The above description, however, corresponds to the typical position of tlie organ in women who have not borne children. Connexions of the Ovary.—When the ovary is in position a small somewhat triangular peritoneal fold passes upwards from its upper pole, and becomes lost in the peritoneum covering the external iliac vessels and the psoas muscle (Fig. 770). This fold has received the name of suspensory ligament of the ovary, and is a portion of the upper and outer part of the broad ligament of the uterus, which here contains between its two layers the ovarian vessels and nerves as they pass down into the pelvis to reach the hilus of the ovary. The vessels and nerves entering the ovary along its anterior border are enclosed in a sheath of peritoneum derived from the posterior layer of the broad ligament. In this way the ovary is connected along the whole length of its anterior border by a very short mesentery or mesovarium to the posterior aspect of the broad ligament (Fig. 769). The lower pole of the ovary is connected with the lateral angle of the uterus by a ligament called the ligament of the ovary (ligamentum ovarii proprium). This has the form of a rounded cord enclosed between the peritoneal folds of the broad ligament, and is attached to the uterus, behind and below the point of entrance of the Fallopian tube. It is chiefly composed of smooth muscle fibres continuous with those of the uterus. The upper pole of the ovary is often directly connected with one of the largest of the fimbrite surrounding the abdominal end of the Fallopian tube, which receives the name ovarian fimbria of the tube (Fig. 769). Descent of the Ovary.—Like the testes, the ovaries at first lie in the abdominal cavity, and only later assume a lower position. At birth the ovary lies partly in the abdominal, and partly in the pelvic cavity; soon, however, it takes up a position entirely within the pelvis. It is a rare abnormality for the ovary, instead of entering the pelvis, to take a coarse similar to that of the testis, and pass through the inguinal canal into the tissue of the labium majus. Structure of the Ovary.—The ovary is for the most part composed of a connective tissue stroma (stroma ovarii), richly supplied by blood-vessels and nerves. The stroma contains very numerous spindle-shaped connective tissue fibres, and some elastic tissue. The surface of the ovary is covered by a layer of epithelium, which is composed of columnar cubical cells, and is continuous with the epithelium of the peritoneum forming the mesovarium. The ovarian epithelium is a persistent portion of the germinal epithelium of the embryo which covers the genital ridges, and from which the ova and other cells of the Graafian follicles are dei'ived. The position in which it be- comes continuous with the peritonexmi can usually be distinguished as a fine white line near the hilus of the ovary. Shining through the eijithelium of the fresh uvary (except in old age), are usually to be seen a variable number of small vesicles—the Graafian follicles (folliculi oophori vesiculosi), in which the ova are contained. The number of follicles visible, and also the size which each follicle reaches before it ruptures and sheds its contents, is by no means constant. When a follicle ruptures and discharges the ovum its walls at first collapse, but later the cavity becomes filled with extravasated blood and cellular tissue of a yellowish colour. The resulting structure, called a corpus luteum, slowly degenerates unless impregnation has taken place, in which case it develops and becomes larger during pregnancy. As it atrophies the cells of the corijus luteum disappear, and the structure, losing its yellow colour, receives the name of corpus albicans. Owing to the periodic rupture of the Graafian follicles, the surface of the ovary, which is at first smooth and even, becomes in old age dimpled and puckered. A section through the ovary, especially in young children, presents in its superficial part a somewhat granular appearance, which is due to the presence of enormous num- bers of small follicles, or collections of epithelial cells, embedded in the connective tissue near the surface of the ovary. The larger follicles lie deeper in the stroma, but when they become fully developed they pass towards the surface, where the ripe follicles are