318 THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. The intermuscular septa are processes of the deep fascia attached to the supracondyloid or epicoudylic ridges of the humerus. The internal and stronger septum is placed between the brachialis anticus in front and the inner head of the triceps behind, and gives origin to both. It extends upwards to the In.skbtion of pectoralis MAJOR coraco-brachialis \\^\ Short head of biceps Long head of biceps Brachialis anticus PS (iniifir liead) Musculo-cutaiieous uerx'e Musoulo-spiral nerve —i Urachio-radialib E.XTENSOR carpi RADIALIS LONOlOB Radial artery (cut) E.XTENSOR OSSIS METAOARPI POLUCIS Radial artery (cut)- - Anterior annula Insertion of pectoralis MINOR Deltoid ■,_ Axillary arttry \ Musculo- . , ■ p l_^ —cutaneous nerve insertion 01 the coraco 1 Median nerve (outer liead) Median nerve (inner head) Ulnar nerve brachialis (which is often continuous with it). The external septum is thinner and of less extent. It separates the brachialis anticus and brachio-radialis in front from the inner and outer heads of the triceps behind, and gives origin to these muscles. It extends upwards to the insertion of the deltoid, and is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. MUSCLES. The coraco-brachialis is a rudimentary muscle placed on the front and inner aspect of the arm. It arises in common with the short head of the biceps from the tip of the coracoid process of the scapula, and is commonly connected at its origin with the insertion of the pectoralis minor. The muscle is partially sub- divided into two parts by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and ends in a tendon inserted into a faint linear impression about an inch in length on the middle of the inner border of the humerus. The muscle lies on the inner side of the biceps, and is concealed at first by the deltoid and pectoralis major. In the lower part of its extent it is super- ficial, and forms a swelling beneath the skin on the inner side of the arm which serves as a guide to the axillary and brachial arteries. The coraco-brachialis is the remains of a threefold m uscle, of whicli only two elements are usually jjresent in man, but of which in anomalous cases all the 2>arts may be more or less fully develoi^ed. The passage of the iiiusculo-cutaneous nerve througli the muscle is an indication of —Semilunar fascia of biceps Pronator radii teres Deep fascia of forearm -Flexor carpi radialis Palmaris longus Flexor carpi ulnaris Flexor sublimis digitori'm Flexor longus pollicis Pronator quadratus Ulnar artery Ulnar nerve Fig. 236.—Superficial Musclks on the Fkont op the Arm AND Forearm.