THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. 386 boundary of the submaxillary space. The posterior belly is concealed at its origin by the mastoid process and the muscles attached to it. It crosses the carotid vessels and the hypoglossal nerve in the anterior triangle. The anterior belly covers the mylo-hyoid muscle. The stylo-hyoid muscle arises from the styloid process of the temporal bone, and is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone by two slips which enclose the tendon of the digastric muscle. It is directed downwards and forwards alongside the posterior belly of the digastric, and crosses the anterior triangle in front of the carotid vessels. The mylo-hyoid muscle arises from the lower three-fourths of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw. It is directed downwards and inwards, to be inserted into the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone, and more anteriorly (along with the opposite muscle) into a median raphe extending from the hyoid bone nearly to the chin. The muscle forms a diaphragm in tlie floor of the mouth, and has in contact with its external surface the digastric muscle and the submaxillary gland. Its internal surface is partially covered by the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, and is separated from the hyoglossus and genio-hyoglossus muscles by the deep part of the submaxillary gland, the subli'ngual gland, Wharton's duct, and the lingual and hypoglossal nerves. The genio-hyoid muscle arises from the lower of the two genial tubercles on the back of the symphysis of the lower jaw. It is directed downwards and back- wards, to he inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. The muscle is concealed by the digastric and mylo-hyoid muscles. It lies along the lower border of the genio- hyoglossus. The muscles of opposite sides are often fused together. The Muscles of the Tongue. The muscular substance of the tongue consists of two symmetrical series of muscles placed on either side of a membranous raphe in the middle, line, and composed of (1) extrinsic muscles arising from the soft palate, styloid process, hyoid bone and lower jaw, and (2) intrinsic muscles, proper to the tongue itself. Each set consists of four series of muscles. The extrinsic muscles are four in number: (1) genio-hyo-glossus, (2) hyo- glossus, (3) stylo-glossus, and (4) palato-glossus. The genio-hyo-glossus muscle (Fig. 283) is an extrinsic muscle of the tongue as well as a supra-hyoid muscle. It is a fan-shaped muscle arising by its apex from the upper of the two genial tubercles behind the symphysis of the lower jaw. From this origin the muscular flbres diverge; the lowest fibres are directed down- wards and backwards, to be inserted into the body of the hyoid bone ; the highest fibres curve forwards, to be attached to the tip of the tongue ; the intermediate fibres are attached to the substance of the tongue between the base and tip. The muscles of opposite sides are separated by the median raphe of the tongue. On the outer side of each are placed the hyo-glossus and mylo-hyoid muscles. Between the hyo- glossus and genio-hyo-glossus are found the stylo-hyoid ligament, the Lingual artery, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The hyo-glossus muscle is also an extrinsic muscle of the tongue as well as a supra-hyoid muscle. It arises from the hyoid bone (body and great cornu), and is directed upwards and forwards, to be inserted into the side of the tongue, inter- lacing with the stylo-glossus. The muscle is quadrilateral, and lies between the genio-hyo-glossus and mylo-hyoid muscles, separated from the latter by the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, the sublingual and part of the submaxillary glands, the lingual and hypoglossal nerves, and Wharton's duct. The chondro-glossus is a small separated slij) of the hyo-glossii.s, not always present. The stylo-glossus muscle arises beneath the parotid gland from the lower end of the styloid process and from the stylo-mandibular ligament. Proceeding forwards and inwards, it is inserted iuto tlie side and under surface of the tongue, its fibres spreading out to decussate with those of the palato-glossus and hyo-glossus. The muscle is covered by the internal pterygoid muscle and the mucous membrane of the tongue.