THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. 586 lialf of tlie flexor profundus digitoruin, and tlie pronator (piadratus, minute medullary -branches to the radius and ulna, and twigs to the periosteimi and interosseous membrane. (4) Palmar Cutaneous Branch.—In the lower third of the forearm a small cutaneous branch arises, which pierces the deep fascia and crosses the anterior annular ligament to reach the palm of the hand. It supplies tlie skin of the palm and communicates witli a similar branch of the ulnar nerve. This branch is not always present. Branches in the Hand.—In the liand the median nerve gives oft' its terminal branches. These are muscular and cutaneous. The main muscular branch arises just below the anterior annular ligament and passes out- wards to the base of the thenar eminence; enter- ing the ball of the thumb superficially on the inner side, it supplies branches to the abductor pollicis, opponens pollicis, and the superficial head of the flexor brevis pollicis. The cutaneous branches are five in number. Three separ- ate branches supply each side of the thumb and the radial side of the index finger. The two remaining branches subdivide at the cleft between the second and third, and the third and fourth fingers re- spectively, into branches which supply the ad- jacent sides of the second and third, and the third and fourth fingers. From the nerves which supply re- spectively the radial side of the index finger, and the contiguous sides of the index and third fingers, fine muscular branches arise for the two outer lumbrical muscles. The cutaneous branches of the median nerve are placed in the palm between the super- ficial palmar arch and the flexor tendons. They become superficial at the roots of the fingers between the slips of the palmar fascia, or, in the case of the nerves to the thumb and radial side of the index finger, at the outer edge of the central portion of the palmar fascia. In the fingers they Fio. 432.- (A) -The Disthibution of Cutaneous Nerves on the Front of THE Arm and Hand. represents the distribution of the several nerves, the letters indicating their nomenclature. Acr, Acromial branch (cervical plexus) ; CiRC, Cutaneous branch of circumflex nerve ; M.Se, Superior external cutaneous branch of niusculo-spiral nerve ; M.C, Musculo-cutaneous nerve ; M, Median nerve ; U, Ulnar nerve ; I.C, Internal cutaneous nerve; L.I. C, Les.ser internal cutaneous nerve (Wrisberg); I.H, Inter- costo-humeral nerve ; T.2, 3, 4, 5, 6, Anterior and lateral branches of intercostal nerves. (B) is a schematic representation of the areas supplied by the above nerves, the lettering indicating the spinal origin of the branches of distribution to each area. V.A.L, Ventral axial line.