550 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. longitudinally-directed fibres in the white medullary centre of the occipital lobe. It lies on the outer side of the ventricular cavity, from which it is separated by the fibres of the tapetum and the ependyma of the ventricle (Figs. 397, p. 535 ; and 400, p. 538). To the outer side of, and applied closely to, the optic radiation is another longitudinal tract of fibres in this part of the medullary centre of the cerebral hemi- sphere, viz. the inferior longitudinal association Imndle; but the fibres of the latter fasciculus are coarser and are stained more deeply by the Pal-Weigert method, and thus they can, as a rule, be easily distinguished from the optic radiation. Traced^ in a backward direction, the fibres of the optic radiation disperse and pass to the cortex of the occipital lobe ou both its mesial and outer aspects. This is a matter of interest, seeing that the visual centre is placed in this cortical district, and more particularly on the mesial aspect in the immediate neighbourhood of the calcarine fissure (Flechsig and Henschen). When the optic radiation is followed in a forward Caiulato nucleus < )ptic radiation Caudate nucleus Optic railiatiou Inferior longitudinal bundle-^\^ Tapetum ■Descending horn of lateral ventricle Choroid plexus in lateral ventricle Corpus callosum Fornix riialanius (pnlvinar) Occipital ciirticifugal tract to luperior <iuadrigeminal body Superior quadrigeminal body Corpus genieulatuni externum Corpus genieulatuni interuum Sylvian gray matter Inferior bracluuni Lateral fillet Superior cerebellar peduncle Cerebellum Vons Fimbria Gyrus dentatus lleiitate lissura Fig. 409.—Coronal Section through the Left Side of the Cerebkum, Mesencephalon, and Pons, IN THE Region op the Pdlvinar of the Thalamus and the Corpora Geniculata (Chimpanzee ; Weigert-Pal sijecinien). direction it is seen to enter the retrolenticular part of the posterior limb of the internal capsule, from whence its fibres pass to the pulvinar of the optic thalamus, to the corpus geniculatum externum and the superior quadrigeminal body. As we have noted, the optic radiation is composed partly of corticifugal and partly of corticipetal fibres (p. 511). The former arise from cells in the occipital cortex and end in the pulvinar and the superior quadrigeminal body; the cortici- petal fibres arise in the pulvinar and in the corpus geniculatum externum and end in the occipital cortex (Ferrier and Turner). The system of fibres which belong to the mesial fillet and the superior cerebellar peduncle have been already more or less fully dealt with (pp. 494 and 497). The fillet system represents the continuation upwards of the posterior columns of the cord. The first nuclear internodes in the system are met with in the medulla in the shape of the cuneate and gracile nuclei. It is here that the fillet first takes definite shape, and, as it passes upwards through the tegmental part of the medulla and pons, it receives many additions to its strength in the form of fibres from the nuclei of termination of the afferent cranial nerves. Finally, passing through the tegmentum of the mesencephalon, it reaches the subthalamic region and enters the ventral aspect of