THE THOEACIC AORTA. 753 vertebra, and finally turus downwards to become continuous with the descending aorta. At its commencement it has the same diameter as the ascending aorta, 1| inches (28 mm.), but after giving off three large branches, the diameter is reduced to a little less than one inch (23 mm.). Relations.—It-is overlapped in front and on the left side by the right and left lungs and pleural sacs, but much more by the latter than the former, and in the interval between and behind the pleural sacs it is covered by the remains of the thymus gland. As it turns backwards it is crossed vertically on the left side by four nerves in the following order from before backwards—the left phrenic, the inferior cervical cardiac branch of the left vagus, the superior cardiac branch of the left sympathetic and the trunk of the left vagus, and the left superior intercostal vein passes obliquely upwards and to the right between the vagus and phrenic nerves. Behind and to the right side of the arch are the trachea, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, the left border of the oesophagus, and the thoracic duct. Above are its three large branches—the innominate, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian arteries—and crossing in front of the roots of these is the left innominate vein. Beloiv is the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery and the root of the left lung ; the ligamentum arteriosum, which is also below, attaches it to the commencement of the left pulmonary artery, whilst to the right of the ligament is the superficial cardiac plexus, and to its left is the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Branches.—The three great vessels which supply the head and neck, part of the thoracic wall, and the upper extremities—viz. the innominate, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian arteries—arise from the aortic arch. The descending aorta (aorta descendens).—-The thoracic portion of the de- scending aorta lies in the posterior mediastinum; it extends from the termination of the arch, at the lower border of the left side of the fourth dorsal vertebra, to the aortic opening in the diaphragm, where, opposite the twelfth dorsal vertebra, it becomes continuous with the abdominal portion. Its length is from seven to eight inches (17"5 to 20 cm.), and its diameter diminishes from 23 mm. at its commencement to 21 mm. at its termination. Relations. — Immediately behind it is the vertebral column and the anterior common ligament. It rests also on the vena azygos minor superior and the vena azygos minor inferior, whilst from its posterior aspect the aortic intercostal branches are given oft'. In front it is in relation, from above downwards, with the root of the left lung, the peri- cardium which separates it from the back of the left auricle, the oesophagus with the oeso- phageal plexus of nerves, and the crura of the diaphragm which separate it from the Spigelian lobe of the liver. On the left side are the left lung and pleura. On the right side the thoracic duct and the vena azygos major form immediate relations along its whole length. The oesophagus also lies to the right of the upper part of the descending aorta, whilst the right lung and pleura are in close relation below. Branches.—Nine pairs of aortic intercostal arteries, two left bronchial arteries, four or five oesophageal, some small pericardial, and a few posterior mediastinal branches usually arise from the descending aorta. THE ABDOMINAL AOHTA. The abdominal portion of the descending aorta lies in the epigastric and umbihcal regions of the abdomen. It extends from the middle of the lower border of the last dorsal vertebra to the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it bifurcates into the right and left common ihac arteries. The point of division is a little below and to the left of the umbihcus, opposite a line drawn transversely across the abdomen on a level with the highest points of the ihac crests. At its commencement it is 21 mm. in diameter, but after the origin of two large branches, the coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric arteries, it diminishes considerably, and then retains a fairly uniform diameter to its termination. Relations.—Behind, it is in contact with the upper four lumbar vertebrae and 48