THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. 401 liga- and attaches the fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca ; the inner part forms the floor of the inguinal canal. At its inner end a triangular band of fibres is reflected horizon- tally backwards to the ilio-pectineal line, forming Gimbernat's ligament, the outer edge of which limits internally the crural ring. The femoral vessels in the femoral sheath enter the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament, in fr?)nt of the psoas muscle. The external abdominal ring, the place of exit of an inguinal hernia, is a split in the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus, just above the spine of the pubis. It transmits the spermatic cord, or round ligament of the uterus, covered by the cremaster muscle or cremasteric fascia. The opening is of considerable extent, and its edges are drawn together by a thin fascia, strengthened superficially by a number of arched and horizontal fibres, the intercolumnar fibres, which arise from Poupart's ligament and sweep inwards across the cleft in the aponeurosis. The margins of the ring constitute its pillars. The external pillar is narrow, and is formed from that part of the aponeurosis which joins the pubic spine, and is continuous with of the inner end ' Poupart's ment. The in- ternal pillar is the part of the apo- neurosis internal to the ring which is attached to the crest and sym- physis of the pubis. It is flat and broad. The inter- columnar fibres and the pillars of the external ab- dominal ring are continuous with a thin tubular sheath, the inter- columnar or ex- ternal spermatic Obliquus externus Obliquus internus Ilio-hypogastric nerve Ilio-inguinal nerve Cremaster Aponeurosis of obliquus externus (cut) Saphenous opening Genito-crural nerve Internal saphenous vein Fig. 296.—The Groin. Aponeurosis of obliquus externus (cut) Twelfth thoracic nerve Triangular fascia Spermatic cord Susi-iensory liga- ment of penis Intercolumnar fascia Dartos muscle The structures seen ou removal of part of the obliquus externus. fascia, which forms an envelope for the spermatic cord or round ligament beyond the external abdominal rinff. The triangular fascia, lastly, is a triangular band of fibres placed behind the internal pillar of the external abdominal ring. It consists of fibres from the opposite external oblique aponeurosis, which, having traversed the linea alba, gain an insertion into the crest and spine of the pubis on the opposite side. The obliquus externus muscle is superficial in almost its whole extent. It is overlapped posteriorly by the latissimus dorsi muscle, but may be separated from it just above the iliac crest by an angular interval (triangle of Petit). The obliquus internus abdominis, a broad thin sheet lying between the obliquus externus and the transversalis, arises from (1) the lumbar fascia, (2) the anterior half of the iliac crest, and (3) the outer half of Poupart's ligament. Directed for the most part upwards and forwards, its highest fibres are inserted directly into the last three ribs. The rest of the fibres form an extensive aponeurosis, broader above than below, which splits along the linea semilunaris, to form, along with the aponeuroses of the obliquus externus and transversalis muscles, the sheath of the rectus, and is thereafter inserted into the seventh, eighth, and ninth costal cartilages, and into the linea alba from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis pubis. The fibres arising from Poupart's ligament join with those of the trans- versalis muscle having a similar origin to form the conjoint tendon, which passes altogether in front of the rectus muscle, to be attached to the pubic crest and spine and to the ilio-pectineal line. 26