THE ILIAC VEINS. 851 Sciatic Veins (vv. okitacce inferiores).—Tlie venie comites of the sciatic artery com- mence ill the subcutaneous tissues on tlie back of the thigh ; they ascend with the sciatic artery, and pass deeply into the buttock beneath the gluteus maximus, where they receive numerous tributaries from the surrounding muscles. Entering the pelvis through the great sciatic foramen, they unite into a single vessel, which terminates in the lower and anterior part of the internal iliac vein below the termination of the obturator vein. Gluteal Veins (vv. glutaese superiores).—The vense comites of the gluteal artery are formed by tributaries which issue from the muscles of the buttock. They accompany the artery through the gi-eat sciatic foramen, and terminate in the internal iliac vein : they frequently unite together before reaching their termination. Internal Pudic Veins. — The venae comites of the internal pudic artery commence by tributaries which emerge from the corpus cavernosum of the ^^enis (vv. profundfe penis) or clitoris (vv. profundiie clitoridis). They follow the course of the internal pudic artery, and usually join together into a single vessel (v. pudenda interna) which terminates in the internal iliac vein. As tributaries they receive the veins from the bulb, the superficial perineal and inferior hsemorrhoidal veins (vv. hsemorrhoidales inferiores), and veins from the muscles of the buttock. The inferior haemorrhoidal veins, which commence in the substance of the external sphincter of the anus and in the walls of the anal canal, anastomose witli the middle and superior haemorrhoidal veins, and consequently connect the portal and vena caval systems together. The intra-pelvic trihutaries of the internal iliac vein are either («) parietal or {b) visceral; the former comprises the lateral sacral veins, the latter includes the efferent vessels from the plexuses around the several pelvic viscera. {a) Parietal: Lateral sacral veins (vv. sacrales laterales) accompany the corre- sponding arteries, and terminate on each side in the inner and back part of the internal iliac vein. (6) Visceral tributaries are derived from the rectum and from the ])lexuses associated with the iiterus, vagina, bladder, and prostate. They include the middle luemorrlioidal, the uterine, the vaginal, and the vesical veins. The middle hsemorrhoidal veins (vv. haemorrhoidales mediales) are very irregular; sometimes they cannot be distinguished. When present they are formed by tributaries which commence in the submucous tissue of the rectum, where they communicate with the superior and inferior hsemorrhoidal veins; they pass through the muscular coat, and fuse together to form two iiiddle haemorrhoidal veins, right and left, each of which runs outwards beneath the peritoneum, on the upper surface of the levator ani, to terminate in the internal iliac vein. In the male each middle haemorrhoidal vein receives tributaries from the seminal vesicle and vas deferens of its own side. Uterine Plexuses and Veins.—The uterine plexuses lie along the lateral borders of the uterus ; they receive tributaries, which are entirely devoid of valves, from the uterus, and they communicate above with the ovarian, and below with the vaginal plexuses. The uterine veins (vv. uterinje), usually two on each side, issue from the lower parts of the uterine plexuses above their communications with the vaginal plexuses. At first the uterine veins on each side lie in the inner part of the base of the broad ligament above the lateral fornix of the vagina and the ureter; they then pass backwards, accom- panying the corresponding artery, in a fold of peritoneum which lies between the back of the broad ligament and the recto-uterine fold; finally they ascend in the floor of the ovarian fossa, and terminate in the" internal iliac vein. Vaginal Plexuses and Vaginal Veins. — The vaginal plexuses lie at the sides of the vagina. They receive tributaries from the walls of the vagina, and communi- cate above with the uterine plexuses, below with the veins of the bulb, in front with the vesical plexus, and behind with the veins which issue from the middle and lower parts of the haemorrhoidal plexus. A single vaginal vein issues from the upper part of the vaginal plexus on each side ; it accompanies tlie corresponding arteries, and terminates in the internal iliac vein. Superior Vesical Plexus.—The superior vesical plexus of veins lies on the outer surface of the muscular coat of the bladder at the fundus and the sides. It receives tributaries from the mucous and muscular walls, and its efferent vessels terminate in the prostatico-vesical plexus in the male, and in the inferior vesical plexus in the female. Prostatico-vesical Plexus.—This plexus is distributed round the prostate and the neck of the bladder, and is enclosed })etween the proper fibrous capsule of the prostate and its sheath of recto-vesical fascia. In front it receives the dorsal vein of the penis, which