THE TESTIS. 1105 and overlapping, to some extent, the posterior part of the onter surface of the testis. The upper, somewhat swollen part of the epididymis, is called the globus major (caput epididymidis), and overhangs the upper end of the testis, to which it is directly connected hj numerous emerging ducts, by connective tissue, and l)y the serous covering of the organ. The lower and smaller end is termed globus minor (cauda epididymidis), and is attached by loose areolar tissue and by the serous covering to the lower end of the testis. The intermediate part or body (corpus epididymidis) is apphed against, but is separated from, the posterior part of the outer surface of the testis by an involution of the serous covering of the organ, which forms an intervening pocket termed the digital fossa. Attached to the globus major, or to the adjoining part of the upper extremity of the testis, there are usually one or two minute pedunculated bodies, called hydatids of the epididymis or of the testis (appendices testis), which have a developmental interest. Above the globus major, and in front of the lower part of the spermatic cord, there is also sometimes a small body present, called the organ of Giraldes or paradidymis. This is rarely seen in the adult. Tunica Vaginalis.—The cavity within which the testis and its epididymis are placed is lined by a smooth serous membrane—the tunica vaginalis—which resembles in appearance and structure the peritoneum from which it is originally derived. The cavity is considerably larger than the contained structures, and 0 extends not only down to a lower level than the testis, but also reaches upwards to a higher level than the gland. The sac or cavity tapers as it is traced upwards, and above the level of the testis the spermatic cord bulges forwards into its posterior part. The tunica vaginalis not only lines the cavity for the testis,.but is reflected from the posterior wall of the scrotal chamber over the testis and epididymis, giving a covering to each. The part of the membrane lining the cavity is called the parietal portion (lamina parietalis) of the tunica vaginalis, while the part clothing the testis and epididymis is the visceral portion (lamina visceralis). Between the outer surface of the testis and the body of the epididymis, the visceral part of the tunica vaginalis dips in and lines an interval called the digital fossa (sinus epididymidis). On the other hand, the tunica vaginalis is absent where the globus major and globus minor of the. epididymis are adherent to the testis, and similarly the serous covering is incomplete posteriorly, where the various structures forming the spermatic cord enter or leave the testis and epididymis. From the lower part of the testis or epididymis a small crescentic fold of the tunica vaginalis passes downwards to the bottom of the sac. Structure of the Testis and Epididymis.—Beneath the serous tunica vaginalis the testis is invested by an external coat, composed of dense white inelastic fibrous tissue called the tunica albuginea, from the deep surface of which a number of slender fi1)rous bands or septa dip into the gland. These—the septula testis— imperfectly divide the organ into a number of parts called lobes or lobules, (lobuli testis. Fig. 751). All the septa end posteriorly in a mass of fibrous tissue which is directly continuous with the tunica albuginea, and which projects forwards into the testis along its posterior border. This structure receives the name of mediastinum testis, or corpus Highmori. The mediastinum is traversed by an exceedingly com- plicated network of fine canals, into which the minute tubules which compose tlie substance proper of the testis open. The mediastinum is also pierced by the arteries, veins, and lymphatics of the testis. These vessels enter the posterior border of the organ, and traversing the mediastinum, spread out on the fibrous septa which radiate towards all parts of the deep surface of the tunica albuginea. In this way a delicate network of vessels (tunica vasculosa) is formed on the deep surface of the tunica albuginea and on the sides of the septa. The testis is composed of enormous numbers of much convoluted seminiferous tubules (tubuli seminiferi contorti), which fill up the intervals between the septa. These minute tulDules look like fine threads to the unaided eye, and are but loosely connected together. Usually but three or four are fonnd in each lobule of the gland, and the total number of tubules in the testis has been estimated at about 600. The seminiferous tubules, after a course of about two feet in length, pass towards the mediastinum testis, and unite, at acute angles, to form a smaller 70