552 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. which in the cortex is the corresponding part to the retina, should be of greater extent than the auditory field, which represents the cochlea, and the olfactory area, which represents a small amount of olfactory mucous membrane in the nasal chamber. The four sensorial areas, taken together, only form about one-third of the entii'e cerebral surface. The remaining two-thirds of the cortex constitute what Flechsig has termed the association centres. The great extent of these in man must be regarded as a special human characteristic. These centres differ from the sensorial areas in being exceedingly poorly pro- vided with projection fibres. They have little direct connexion with the centres which lie at a lower level. Indeed, the only direct bond of union over a very large extent of these association areas with lower centres consists of tlie thalamo-cortical fibres, which pass to them from the thalamus. But, on the other hand, they are rich in association fibres, and are linked in the most complete and perfect manner by these fibres to the sensorial areas. Flechsig regards these association areas as constituting the portions of cortex in which the higher intellectual activities are carried on, and he further believes that they exercise an important controlling influence over the sense areas. More particularly is this control exhibited in the case of tlie great somaesthetic area within which the influence of all bodily impressions is received and transformed into consciousness, and within which the impulses which are thereby excited take definite form. These impulses, according to Flechsig, are, in a measure, in all properly-balanced minds, held in subjection by the higher feelings, which assume shape in the association centres. In his study of the foetal and infantile brain Flechsig has shown that the fibres of the sensory paths Ijecome medullated in tlie first instance; then the corticifugal fibres which go out from the sense areas assume their sheaths of myelin ; and, further, that it is not until a month after birth, and after the projection fibres in connexion with the sense areas are myelinated, that the associa- tion areas become linked on by medullated association fibres with the sense areas. Development of the Parts derived from the Fore-brain. It has been previously noted that the fore-brain very early sliovvs an obscure sub- division into a front portion, termed the telenceplialou, and a hinder jjart, called the diencephalon, which corresponds moi'e nearly to the original cavity of the fore-brain. The'cavity of third A^entricle is derived from both, and stretches forwards, therefore, to the lamina terminalis, which in its lower part is represented in the adult by the lamina cinerea. The lateral wall of both sections of the primitive fore-brain shows very distinctly the subdivision into a dorsal or alar and a ventral or basal lamina. The groove which indicates this separation is the sulcus of Monro, and is evident even in the adult brain. Alar Lamina.—The alar part of the lateral wall of the telencephalon is pushed out to form the divertictilum, which ultimately constitutes the cerebral hemisphere, and thus from a very early period the primitive position of this part of the latei'al wall is indicated by the wide foramen of Monro, or aperture of commvmication between the cavity of the cei'ebral hemisphere and the third ventricle. The alar part of the lateral wall of the diencejjhahm is utilised for the development of the thalamus, the epithalamus, and the metathalamus. Of these the optic thalamus is derived from the anterior and by far the greatest part of the alar wall. It arises as a large oval swelling, which gradually approaches its fellow of the. opposite side, and thus diminishes the width of the third ventricle. Finally, the two bodies come into contact in the mesial plane and cohere over an area corresponding to the gray commissure. This occurs about the end of the second month. From that section of the lateral wall to which the name of metathalamus is given the two geniculate bodies arise. Each of these shows, in the first place, as a depression on the inside, and a slight elevation on the outside, of the wall of the diencephalon. As the thalamus grows backwards, it encroaches greatly upon the territory occupied by the geni- culate bodies. It thus comes about that in the adult brain the internal geniculate body seems to hold a position on the lateral aspect of the mesencephalon, whilst the external geniculate body, viewed fi'om the surface, appears to be a part of the thalamus. From the epithalamic region of the wall of the diencephalon are developed the pineal gland, its peduncle, and the habenular region. These parts are relatively much more evident in the embryonic than in the adult brain. The pineal body is developed as a diverticulum of the posterior part of the roof of the dienceiaiialon. Viewed from the dorsal aspect of the brain-tube, this diverticulum shows in the first instance as a I'ounded elevation, from either side of which a broad ridge runs forwards. This ridge becomes the tfenia thalami, whilst in the region of its junction with the pineal elevation the trigonum habenula; takes shape. The pineal diverticulum ultimately becomes solid, but a small portion of the original cavity is retained as the recessus pinealis of the third ventricle.