FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE AEM. 317 Muscles. Nerves, i Origin. Deltoid "i Teres minor J Supraspinatus 1 Infraspinatus J Teres major Subscapularis Circumflex Suprascapular Lower subscapular Lower and upper subscapular • C. 5. 6. Actions. ' . The principal action of this group of muscles is on the shoulder joint. They have'^ also secondary actions in relation to movements of the trunk and limbs. < ■ 1. Movements at the Shoulder Joint. a. Abduction. Adduction. b. Flexion (Forwards). Extension (Backwards). ■ Deltoid Supraspinatus Teres major Teres minor Pectoralis major Latissimus dorsi Coraco-brachialis Biceps (short head) Triceps (long head) (Weight of limb) Deltoid (anterior fibres) Subscapularis Pectoralis major Coraco-brachialis Biceps Deltoid (posterior fibres) Teres major Infraspinatus Latissimus dorsi Triceps c. Botation Outwards. Botation Inwards. Deltoid (posterior fibres) Infraspinatus Teres minor Deltoid (anterior fibres) Teres major Pectoralis major Latissimus dorsi d- Circumduction—combination of previous muscles. The various movements at the shoulder joint are greatly aided by the muscles acting on the shoulder girdle. In raising the arm above the head, for instance, the humerus is brought to the horizontal position by the deltoid and supraspinatus, and the movement is continued by the elevators of the shoulder girdle. Again, in forward and backward movements at the shoulder joint, great assistance is derived from muscles acting directly on the shoulder girdle—pectoralis minor and serratus magnus ; trapezius and rhomboidei. 2. In relation to the trunk and limbs, the shoulder muscles, by fixing the humerus, have auxiliary power on the one hand in movements of the trunk, such as forced inspiration; on the other hand, acting along with muscles fixing the elbow joint, they stiffen the limb so as to permit of the more refined movements of the wrist and fingers. FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE AEM. FASCIJi;. The superficial fascia presents no features of importance. There is a bursa beneath it over the olecranon process; and occasionally another over the inner condyle of the humerus. The deep fascia forms a strong tubular investment for the muscles on the front and back of the humerus. It is continuous above with the deep fascia of the shoulder and axilla, and is further strengthened by fibres derived from the inser- tions of muscles attached to the upper part of the humerus. At the elbow it becomes continuous with the deep fascia of the forearm, and gains attachment to the condyles of the humerus and the olecranon process of the ulna ; it is strength- ened also by important bands associated with the insertions of the biceps in front and the triceps behind.