376 THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. frontalis muscle the skin of the forehead is thrown into horizontal parallel folds. The extrinsic muscles of the ear are three in number: retrahens, attollens, and attrahens aureni. The retrahens aurem (m. auricularis posterior) is a narrow fleshy slip which arises from the surface of the mastoid process and is inserted into the deep surface of the pinna. It bridges across the groove between the mastoid process and the pinna, and conceals the posterior auricular vessels and nerve. Tlie attollens aurem (m. auricularis superior) is a small fan-shaped muscle which arises from the temporal fascia, and descends vertically to be inserted into the top of the root of the pinna. The attrahens aurem (m. auricularis anterior) is a similar small muscle, placed in front of the attollens, and stretching obliquely between the temporal fascia and the top of the root of the pinna. These two muscles conceal branches of the temporal vessels as they lie on the temporal fascia. The ear muscles are rudimentary and usually functionless. The Muscles of the- Face. The muscles of the face are divided into three groups, associated with the several apertures of the eye, nose, and mouth. 1. The muscles of the eyelids include four muscles: the levator palpebrse superioris (described with the orbital muscles), orbicularis palpebrarum, tensor tarsi, and corrugator supercilii. The orbicularis palpebrarum (m. orbicularis oculi) is a transversely oval sphincter muscle surrounding and occupying the eyelids. It is divisible into an external portion (pars orbitalis) composed of coarse fibres, spreading on to the forehead, temple, and cheek, and an internal j}ortion (pars palpebralis), composed of finer fibres, which occupies the eyelids beneath the skin. At the inner canthus of the eye the muscle (by its palpebral fibres) gains an attachment to the tarsal ligament and the borders of the naso-lachrymal groove. The fibres which extend along the margins of the lids constitute a separate ciliary bundle. The fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum enclose the lachrymal sac and the canaliculi. The posterior fibres, extending between the posterior edge of the naso-lachrymal groove and the tarsal ligaments behind the lachrymal sac, constitute the tensor tarsi muscle. Externally the orbicularis palpebrarum has no bony attachment; so that when it contracts and closes the eyelids, both lids at the same time tend to be drawn inwards towards the inner canthus of the ejB. The oorrugator supercilii arises from the nasal eminence, and passing horizon- tally outwards, blends with the upper fibres of the precedino- muscle on its under surface. The contraction of this muscle throws the forehead into vertical folds. 2. The muscles of the nose comprise five small muscles proper to the nose, and one common to the nose and upper lip: the pyramidalis nasi, compressor naris, dilatores naris (anterior and posterior), depressor al?e nasi, and levator labii superioris alteque nasi. They are all small and feeble. The pyramidalis nasi arises from the occipito-frontalis muscle and the skin over the glabella; it is inserted into a membrane stretching over the nose, which also gives attachment to the compressor naris. The compressor naris (m. nasalis) arises by a narrow origin from the superior maxilla, under cover of the levator labii superioris alseque nasi. It passes forwards over the bridge of the nose, and ends in a membranous insertion common to it and the previous muscle. The dilatores naris are feeble muscular slips placed on the outer side of the margin of the nostril, one anteriorly, the other posteriorly. The depressor alse nasi is a small muscle arising from the upper part of the incisor fossa of the maxilla; it divides into two parts as it passes upwards and inwards, and is inserted into the ala and the septum of the nose (depressor septi).