227 THE TIBIA. for the attachmeut of the anterior hgament of the joint; further, it ia occasionally provided with a pressure facet caused by the locking of the bone against the neck of the astragalus in extreme flexion. Externally the edge of the articular area corresponds to the base of the triangle formed by the splitting of the interosseous ridge into two parts. Where these two lines join it, both in front and behind, the bone is elevated into the form of tubercles, in the hollow between which (incisura tibularis) the lower end of the fibula is lodged, being held in position by powerful ligaments. The cartilage-covered surface occasionally extends for some little distance above the base of the triangle. Internally there is a down-projecting process, called the internal malleolus (malleolus medialis), the inner aspect of which is subcutaneous and forms the projection of the inner ankle. Its external surface is furnished with a pyriform facet (facies articularis malleolaris), confluent above with the cartilage - covered area on the inferior extremity of the shaft; this articulates with a corresponding area on the inner surface of the body of the astragalus. Interiorly the malleolus is pointed in front, but notched behind for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle. Running obliquely along the posterior surface of the malleolus there is a broad groove (sulcus malleolaris) in which the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor * longus digitorum muscles are lodged; whilst a little to the fibular side of this, and running downwards over the posterior surface of the lower extremity of the bone, there is another groove, often faintly marked, for the lodgment of the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis muscle. The proportionate length of the til)ia to the body height is as 1 is to 4'32-4-80. Arterial Foramina.—Nutrient canals are seen piercing the upper extremity of the bone around its circumference and above tlie tubercle. The floors of the intercondylic fossse are also similarly pierced, and there is usually a canal of large size opening on the summit of the spine. Two or three foramina of fair size are seen riinning upwards into the substance of the bone a little below and to the inner side of the tubercle, while the principal vessel for the shaft j^asses down- wards into the bone on its posterior surface, about the level of the junction of the upper and middle thirds. The inner surface of the internal malleolus, as well as the aiiterior and posterior borders of the inferior extremity, are likewise pitted by the orifices of small vascular channels. Connexions.—Superiorly the tibia supports the condyles of the femur, and is connected in front with the patella by means of the patellar ligament. Articulating externally with the fibula above and below, it is united to that Ijone throughout nearly its entire length by the inter- osseous membrane. The crest and internal surface can be readily examined, as they are sub- cutaneous, except above where the internal surface is overlain by the thin tendinous aponeurosis of the muscles passing over the inner side of the knee. The form of the lower part of the knee in front is determined by the tuberosities on either side crossed mesially by the ligamentum patellas. Interiorly the internal malleolus forms the projection of the inner ankle, which is wider, not so low, less pointed, and placed in advance of the j^rojection of the outer ankle. The front and back of the lower end of the bone*are crossed by tendons, which mask to a certain extent its form. Architecture.—The shaft of the bone is remarkable for the thickness and density of the osseous tissue which underlies the crest. The posterior wall is stout, but the internal and external walls are thinner. The several walls are thickest opposite the middle of the shaft, and thin out aljove and below where the shaft unites with the epiphyses. The medullary canal, narrow and circular in the middle of the bone, increases in all its diameters above and below, and reaches to within 2^ to 3 inches of either extremity. Superiorly the arrangement of the lamellte of the spongy tissue resembles a series of arches springing from the dense outer walls. These form a platform on which the superior epiphysis rests, the spongy tissue of which displays a more or less vertical striation. This is much more compact under the condylic surfaces, the superficial aspect of which is formed by a thin layer of dense bone. The spine and tubercle are also formed of compact tissue, whilst the circumference of tlie tuberosities is covered by a thinner and less dense wall. In the lower end of the shaft the spongy tissue, of a loose and cellular character, is arranged in vertical fibres, blending inferiorly with the closer tissue of the inferior epiphysis, the articular surface of which is covered by a thin but dense layer. In the adult bone the nutrient canal for the shaft is embedded in the dense posterior wall for ; the space of two inches. Variations.—The tibia is often unduly laterally compressed, leading to an increase in its antero-posterior diameter as compared with its transverse width. This condition is more commonly met with in the bones of prehistoric and savage races than in modern Europeans. Attention was first directed to this particular form by Busk, who named the condition platycnemia. The general appearance of such tibias resembles that seen in the apes, and depends on an exceptional development of the tibialis posticus muscle, though, as Manouvrier has pointed out, in apes this is associated Avith the direct action of the muscle on the foot, as in climbing, whereas in man, as a consequence of the bipedal mode of progression, tlie muscle is employed in an inverse sense, viz. by steadying the tibia on the foot, and thus providing a fixed