1194 SUKFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. point of view the costo-iliac space may be said to be limited internally by the outer edge of the erector spinpe, and, more deeply, by the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrte, while externally it is bounded by the posterior free border of the external oblique, and, more deeply, by the line of reflexion of the peritoneum from the colon on to the lateral wall of the abdomen. The space is roofed over by the latissimus dorsi, except below, where a narrow triangular interval is left })etween its outer liorder and the posterior Ijorder of the external oblique, the base of the triangle being formed ]jy the crest of the ilium, a little behind its centre. This triangle (Fig. 250, p. 339), known as the "triangle of Petit," represents a weak area through which a lumbar aliscess may come to the surface, and through which a luml)ar hernia occasionally develops. On removing the latissimus dorsi and the lower part of the thin serratus posticus inferior, another triangle will be exposed, which constitutes a second weak area in the loin ; it is bounded above by the last rib, internally by the outer border of the erector spin;ie, and externally by the posterior muscular fibres of the internal oblique; the floor of the triangle is formed by the aponeurosis of origin of the transversalis al)dominis muscle. At the outer border of the quadratus lumborum this aponeurosis splits into tliree layers to form two comi)artnieuts, the anterior enclosing tlie quadratus lumborum and the posterior tlie erector spini^e. Kidneys.—By retracting inwards the erector spinje and dividing the posterior filtres of the three abdominal muscles, along with the outer fibres of the quadratus, the kidney may be exposed, with the colon lying vertically in front of its outer border. Tlie upper limit of the kidney is indicated 1 jy a line drawn transversely across the loin o})posite tlie eleventh dorsal spine, the lower limit ))y a line on a level with the third luml)ar spine. The upper extremity reaches to the eleventh rili; the lower, wiiich lies immediately external to the tip of the transverse process of the third lund)ar verteln-a, reaches to within 1| to 2 in. of the crest of the ilium. About a third of the kidney lies above the lower margin of the twelfth rib. The left kidney usually lies about ^ in. higher than the right. The most external point of the outer l>order lies 4 in. from the middle line, while the hilus lies 11 in. external to it in front of the interval lietween the tips of the transverse processes of tlie first and second lumbar vertebrse. The psoas muscle intervenes between the postero-internal surface of the kidney and the transverse processes, and protects the organ from injury by a blow directed from the front. Between the upper end of the kidney and the eleventh and twelfth ril)S is the diaphragm and the posterior costo-diaphragmatic reflexion of the pleura. The relations of the pleura to the last rib have already lieen considered (p. 1188). Posteriorly the course of the upper part of the ureter may be indicated by a line drawn vertically upwards from the posterior superior iUac spine to the level of the second lumbar spine; the deep guides are the tips of the transverse processes of the second, third, and fourth lumbar vertebrje, covered ])y the psoas muscle. ■ A needle ])assed tlirough the inner extremity of the eleventh intercostal space will transfix the suprarenal body. The pus of a perinephritic abscess occupies the extraperitoneal fatty layer (peri- renal fat), and lies, therefore, within the fascial envelope of the abdomen ; the pus in a psoas abscess, on the other hand, lies external to the fascia. In opening a psoas abscess from behind, a vertical incision is made in the angle formed by the outer border of the erector spinte and the crest of the ilium; in the deeper part of the dissection the surgeon should keep close to the front of the transverse process of the fourtli lumbar vertebra. Diaphragm, Liver, Stomach, and Large Intestine.—Posteriorly the right arch of the diaphragm and the right lol)e of the liver extend upwards to the level of the angle of the scapula (eighth rib), while the left arch and the fundus of the stomach lie 1 in. lower (eighth interspace); the central tendon reaches up to the eighth dorsal spine. The right lobe of the liver is covered posteriorly by the eighth to the twelfth ribs, and is overlapped by the base of the right lung as far as a line drawn horizontally outwards from the tenth dorsal spine; hence, posteriorly, the upper limit of the liver cannot be defined by percussion, and its lower limit merges into the dulness of the loin muscles and kidney.