J THE HUMEEUS. 187 Lesser ti'bf.rositv Snbsc:iiJiilaiis Head rounded, elevated ridge, most pronounced altove, where it joins the deltoid eminence, and sloping on either side towards the epicondylic ridges; it is into the outer of these slopes that the musculo - spiral groove flows. Inferiorly the elevated surface spreads out, and becomes con- fluent with the condyles, more correctly termed the epicondyles. The internal epicondyle (epicon- dylus medialis) is the more prominent of the two, and furnishes a surface for the origin 'of the pronator radii teres, and the superficial flexor muscles of the foreann. The external epi- condyle (epicondylus lateralis), stunted and but little projecting, serves for the attachment of Int. ei'i-_ i'ondyi.e' Great tuberosity Infra- spinatus Fi(i. 130.—Thk Head (ik the Richt Humkkcs as seex fho.m Above (with the outline of tlie lower e.xtreniity in relation thereto shown in dotted line.) Capitelutm (Olecranon fossa Fig. 1.31.—The Lower Extremity of the RioHT Hdmerus as seen from Bei.ow. for the passage of the ulnar anconeus muscle. The inner muscle has an extensive origin from the posterior surface of the lower two-thirds of the shaft, internal to and below the musculo-spiral groove. The lower extremity of the humerus is furnished with two articular surfaces (the condyles proper), the outer of which, called the capitellum (capitu- lum), for articulation with the upper surface of the liead of the radius, is a rounded eminence, placed on the anterior surface and lower border, but not extending upwards on the posterior surface of the inferior end of the bone. Above it, in front, there is a shallow depression (fossa radialis), into which the margin of the head of the radius sinks when the elbow is strongly flexed. A shallow groove separates the capitellum internally from the trochlea, which is a grooved articular surface, with prominent edges winding spirally round the lower extremity of the shaft. The spiral carves from behind forwards and inwards, and its axis is slightly oblique to the long axis of the shaft. The inner lip is the more salient of the two, and forms a sharp and well-defined margin to the articular area ; its cartilage-covered surface is slightly convex. The outer lip, much less prominent, is rounded off into the articular groov^ which separates it from the capitellum, posterior to which, however, it is carried up as a more or less definite crest. It is by means the common tendon of origin of the extensor muscles. The brachialis anticus muscle has an extensive origin from the anterior surface of the lower half of the shaft, in- cluding between its upper slips the inser- 5 tion of the deltoid. 5 The posterior surface of the lower ]ialf I of the shaft is smooth and rounded from f. side to side; somewhat flattened below, r where the whole shaft tends to incline forwards, it Ijecomes continuous on either side with the posterior surfaces of the epicondyles, the inner of which is grooved nerve, whilst the external supplies an origin for the head of the triceps ove tor ulnar iier\'( Ext. epicondyle (,'apitellum KXT. LATERAL i.IOAMENT Trochlea Anconeus. Fig. 132.—The Lower Right Humerus / the Outer Side. End of the s seen from of the trochlea that the