988 THE DIGESTIVE ^SYSTEM. by the palate in its growth backwards ; the part above the palate is represented in the adult by the lateral recess of the pharynx and the part l)elow it hy the sinus tonsillaris. From tlie lower and greater jjart of the sinus tonsillaris the tonsil is developed ; the upper part of the sinus persists, however, as the snpratonsillar fossa. The tonsil at first is a smooth depression of the mucous membrane. About the fourth month of foetal life downgrowths of the epithelium take place, which are afterwards converted into the tonsillar crypts. Subsequently lymphoid cells accumulate around the downgrowths and form the lymphoid tissue, which constitutes the mass of the organ. The upper and anterior part of the naso-pharynx is derived from the stomatodeuni, the remainder of the cavity from the foregut. THE (ESOPHAGUS. The oesophagus or gullet is the portion of the digestive canal which intervenes between the pharynx above and the stomach below. With the exception of the pylorus, it is the narrowest, and at the same time one of the most muscular parts of the whole alimentary tube. It extends from the termination of the pharynx, at the lower l^order of the cricoid cartilage and opposite the sixth cervical vertebra, to the cardiac orifice of the stomach, opposite the eleventh dorsal vertebra. Between these two points it traverses the lower part of the neck, the whole length of the thorax, and, having pierced the diaphragm, it enters the abdomen, and immediately afterwards joins the stomach. In this course it does not adhere to the mesial plane of the body, hut twice leaves it, and curves to the left. The first of these curvatures corresponds to the lower part of the neck and the upper part of the thorax, where the oesophagus projects beyond the left margin of the trachea to the extent of ^ or ^ inch (4 to 6 mm.). It returns to the middle line about the level of the aortic arch. Lower down, behind the pericardium, it again passes to the left, and at the same time forwards, in order to reach the oeso- phageal opening in the diaphragm (which is placed in front and to the left of the aortic opening), and it maintains this direction until the stomach is reached. In addition to the curvatures just described, • it is also curved in the antero-posterior direc- tion, in correspondence with the form of the ver- tebral column upon which it, in great part, lies. In length it usually measures about ten inches (25 cm.). Its breadth, where the tulie is widest, varies between half an inch (13 mm.) in the empty contracted condition and an inch or more (25 to 30 mm.) in tlie fully distended state. When seen in sections of the frozen body (Fig. 666), the oesophagus usually appears either as a flattened tube with a transverse slit-like cavity, or as an oval or rounded canal with a more or less stellate lumen. The former condition is more common in the neck, owing to the pressure of the tracliea, and the lattci- in the thorax. When exposed in the ordinary post-mortem examination soon after death.