SURFACE AND SUKGICAL ANATOMY. 1174 of delicate straight vessels which disappear under pressure and do not move with the con- juuctiva ; they are the subconjunctival (episclcrotic) terminations of the anterior ciliary arteries ; in health they ai'e invisible. Lachrymal Apparatus.—The lachrymal gland, situated beliind the outer part of the supra-orl)ital margin, cannot be felt unless enlarged. By everting and raising the upper eyelid, the accessory (palpebral) portion of the gland is seen to project Ijeneath the outer tliird of the fornix, in which situation also the minute orifices of the lachrymal ducts may be detected. By gently drawing downwards the lower lid, the small punctum lachrymale is seen situated upon a slight pa})iUary elevation of its margin about 4 mm. from the inner canthus; the corresponding orifice of the upper lid is placed a little nearer the canthus. Normally" the puncta are directed towards, and accurately apY)lied to, the ocular conjunctiva immediately external to the caruncle. By drawing the lids outwards the internal palpebral ligament is put upon the stretcli, and can be felt as a narrow tense band passing transversely inwards to be attached to the nasal process of the superior maxilla. The ligament is a guide to the position of the lachrymal sac, which it crosses a little above its centre. Continuous with the lower end of the lachrymal sac is the nasal duct, wliich passes downwards and slightly backwards and outwards, to open int<» the inferior meatus of the nose, mider cover of the anterior end of the inferior tiirbinal. The lachrymal sac and duct each measure about -| in. in length; the latter is slightly contracted at its commencement and termination, and it is in these situations that pathological strictures of the duct are commonest. Spon- taneous rupture of an abscess of the lachrymal sac almost invariably occurs just below the tendo palpebrarum; it is in this situation that the abscess should be opened, the incision being made a little external to the angular termination of the facial artery. The canaliculi lachrymales, which convey the tears from the puncta to the lach- rymal sac, run for the first 1-2 mm. almost vertically" to the free margins of the lids, and thence parallel to them. Between the canaliculi is the lachrymal caruncle. In the various morbid conditions which give rise either to misdirection of the puncta or to stricture at any part of the lachrymal drainage apparatus, overflow of the tears (^epiphora) is the chief symptom. In passing a probe along a canaliculus the instrument, in consequence of the bend upon the duct, is passed at first vertically to the margin of the lid, and afterwards parallel to it, until the point is felt to strike against the inner wall of the lachrymal sac; to }>ass the instrument onwards along the nasal duct the handle is rotated forwards and u])wards through a quarter oi^ a circle, and then pushed gently downwards and sliglitly backwards and outwards into the inferior meatus of the nose. The tarsal " cartilages " are attached to the periosteum of the orbital margins by the orbito-tarsal ligaments which shut off the communication between the subcuta- neous tissue of the eyelids and the fatty tissue of the orbital cavity. In fracture f)f the anterior fossa of the base of the skull involving the orbital plate, the blood extends forwards between the periosteum and the musculo-fascial envelope of the orbit and appears under the conjunctiva. To obtain free access to the cavity of the orbit, the surgeon first enlarges the palpebral fissure by making a horizontal incision from the outer canthus to the outer margin of the orbit, and then, after everting the eyelid, divides the conjunc- tiva along the fornix of the upper or lower lid, or of both, as may be desired. Nose.—To examine the anterior nares {anterior rhinnscopij) a strong light is reflected into the nostril which is dilated by means of a nasal speculum. The anterior extremity of the inferior turbinal appears as a rounded body projecting from the outer wall of the nose; in turgescence of its erectile tissue it is liable to come in contact with the nasal septum and so occlude the nostril. The inferior meatus, situated between the inferior turl)inated body and the floor of the nasal fossa, is brought into view liy tilting forwards the head. The lower aperture of the nasal duct is concealed from view by the anterior irdvt of the inierior turliinal. The floor of the nose is liorizontal and placed on a slightly lower level than tlic anterior nares. The septum, generally more or less deviated to one or other side, is seen when Iho head is sliniit-lv rotated awav from the side (n be exaaniued. The