THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 842 borders. Each sinixs comniuiiicates with the middle meningeal veins, receives veins from the dura mater, and terminates in the anterior part of the corresponding cavernous sinus. Superior Petrosal Sinuses.—Each superior petrosal sinus (s. petrosus superior) commences at the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone in the posterior end of the corresponding cavernous sinus. It runs backwards and outwards in the attached margin of the tentorium cerebelli, above the fifth cranial nerve, and grooves the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, at the outer extremity of which it terminates in the lateral sinus at the point where the latter is tru'ning downwards on the inner surface of the mastoid portion of the temporal l)one. It receives inferior cerebral, superior cerebellar, tympanic, and diploic veins. Inferior Petrosal Sinuses.—An inferior petrosal sinus (s. petrosus inferior) commences at the posterior end of each cavernous sinus; it runs backwards, out- wards, and downwards in the posterior fossa of the cranium, in a groove along the lower margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the adjacent border of the basilar portion of the occipital bone, to the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen of the same side, through which it passes. It crosses the last four cranial nerves either externally or internally, and it terminates in the internal jugular vein. Its tributaries include inferior cerebellar veins and veins from the internal ear, which pass to it through the internal auditory meatus, the aqueductus cochlea, and the aqueductus vestibuli. The Spinal Veins. The spinal veins inchide— (1) The extra-spinal veins. (a) The anterior spinal plexus. (b) „ posterior ,, (2) The veins of the bodies of the vertebrse. (3) The intra-spinal veins. (a) The anterior longitudinal veins. (b) „ posterior ,, ,, (4) The veins of the spinal cord. The anterior spinal plexus lies in front of the bodies of the vertebrae. It consists of a number of relatively small anastomosing channels, which communicate with the veins of the bodies of the vertebra;, and which receive tributaries from the adjacent muscles and ligaments. Its efferent vessels terminate in the cervical region in the anterior deep cervical vein, in the dorsal region in intercostal veins, in the lumbar region in the lumbar veins, and in the sacral region in the lateral sacral veins. The posterior spinal plexus consists of numerous anastomosing venous channels Avhich lie on the lamina; and round the spines and the articular and transverse processes of the vertebrae. The plexus receives tributaries from the muscles and skin of the back, and communicates, through the ligamenta subfiava, with" the posterior longitudinal spinal veins in the interior of the spinal canal. Its efterent vessels pass between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, or through the sacral foramina, and terminate in the vertebral, the intercostal, the lumbar, and the lateral sacral veins respectively. Veins of the Bodies of the Vertebrae.—The cancellous tissue of the bodies of the vertebrae is permeated by large venous channels which conununicate anteriorly with the anterior spinal plexus. These channels terminate posteriorly in the veme basis vertebrce, which open into transverse anastomosing vessels which connect the anterior longitudinal spinal veins. Anterior Longitudinal Spinal Veins. —Two anterior longitudinal spinal veins collect blood from the bodies of the vertebrfe, from the adjacent ligaments, and from the spinal dura mater. They are plexiform vessels which extend from the foramen magnum, behind the bodies of the vertebrae and along the margins of the posterior common ligament, to the coccyx, and they are connected together, opposite each vertebral body, by transverse anastomoses which lie between the posterior common ligament and the bodies of the vertebrae; these transverse anastomoses are greatly dilated opposite the centres of the bodies where they receive the venae basis vertebrae. Each anterior longitudinal spinal vein communicates round the margin of the canal with the corresponding posterior vein.