223 THE PATELLA. Fuses with shaft about l.S-19 yeais first vnar foetus. According to Hartman, it is absent in about 12 per cent of children at term, and may appear as early as the eighth month of fostal life in about 7 per cent. The superior extremity, entirely carti- lao'inous at birth, comprises Appears about the head, neck, and tro- chanter majoi". A centre appears for the head during the early part of the first year. That for the tro- chanter major begins to ossify about the second or third year, whilst the neck is developed as an upward extension of the shaft, which is, however, not coniined to the neck alone, but forms the lower circumference of the articular head, as may be seen in bones up to the age of twelve or sixteen; after that, the separate epiphysis of the head begins to over- lap it so as to cover it en- tirely when fusion is com- plete at the age of eighteen or twenty. The epiphysis of the great trochanter unites with the shaft and neck about eigh- teen or nineteen, whilst the epiphysis for the trochanter minor, which usually makes its appearance about the twelfth or thirteenth year, is usually completely fused with the shaft about the age of eighteen. The epiphysis for the lower end, although the first to ossify, is not completely united to the shaft until from about the twentieth to the twenty-second year. It is worthy of note that the line of fusion of the shaft and inferior epiphysis passes through the adductor tubercle, a point which can easily be determined in the living. Usually apjiears i the 9th month of fo?tal life. At birth. Fuses with shaft about 20-22 years About 12 years. About 16 years. Fig. 165.—Ossification of Femur. The Patella. The patella, the largest of tiie sesamoid bones, overlies the front of the knee- joint in the tendon of the quadriceps extensor. Of compressed form and somewhat triangular shape, its External ARTfcuLAR FAOET ^QyfQT- angle projcctS downvpards and forms a peak, called the apex (apex patellfe), whilst its upper edge, or base (basis patellae), broad, thick, and sloping forwards and a little downwards, is divided into two areas by a transverse line or groove; the anterior Surface for the ligauieutuni patella Fig. 166.—Right Patella. A, Anterior surface. B, Posterior surfact area so defined serves for the attach- ment of the common tendon of the quad- riceps extensor muscle, whilst the posterior, of compressed triangular shape, is covered hj synovial membrane. The i7mer and outer borders, of curved outline, receive the insertions of the vastus internus and externus muscles respectively, the