THE IN TEEN AL ILIAC AETEEY. 803 from the front and towards the left side of the aorta au inch and a half above the bifurcation; it passes downwards and slightly outwards, lying behind the periton- eum and on the front of the left psoas muscle, to the upper and outer border of the left common iliac artery, where it becomes the superior hsemorrhoidal. Branches.—(a) The left colic artery (a. coUca sinistra) arises from the left side of the inferior mesenteric near its origin. It runs upwards and to the left towards the splenic flexure of the colon, where it divides into ascending and descending branches. The ascending branch crosses in front of the lower end of the left kidney, passes between the layers of the transverse mesocolon, and, turning inwards, terminates by joining the left branch of the middle colic artery. The descending branch passes downwards behind the peritoneum to the iinier side of the descending colon to unite with the superior sigmoid artery, and from the loops thus formed branches are distributed to the descending colon. In the whole of its course the left colic artery lies behind the peritoneimi, and on the posterior abdominal wall; it crosses in front of the left psoas, the left ureter, and the lower end of the left kidney. (b) The sigmoid branches (aa. sigmoidese), usually two in number, arise from the convexity of the inferior mesenteric, and pass downwards and outwards to the iliac colon. They lie behind the peritoneum, and in front of the psoas, the ureter, and the upper part of the iliacus. They terminate by dividing into branches which anastomose with the left colic above and with branches of the superior haemorrhoidal below, forming a series of arches from which branches are distributed to tlie lower part of the descending colon, the iliac colon, and the pelvic colon. (c) The superior hsemorrhoidal artery (a. htemorrhoidalis superior) is the direct continuation of the inferior mesenteric. It enters the mesentery of the pelvic colon, crosses the front of the left common iliac artery, descends into the pelvis as far as the third piece of the sacrum, or in other words the junction between the pelvic colon and the rectum, and divides into two bi-anches which pass downwards on the sides of the rectum. Half-way down the rectum each of the two terminal branches of the superior haimorrhoidal artery divides into two or more branches which pass through the muscular coats and terminate in the submucous tissue, where they divide into numerous small branches which pass vertically downwards, anastomosing with each other, with offsets from the middle hsemorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac arteries, the inferior hsemorrhoidal branches of the internal pudic arteries, and with branches from the middle sacral artery. The superior hfemorrhoidal artery supplies the mucous membrance of the pelvic colon and the rectum and the muscular coats of the pelvic colon. THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The internal iliac or hypogastric artery (a. hypogastrica, Figs. 566, 569, and 572) in the foetus is the direct continuation of the common iliac trunk. It supplies numerous branches to the pelvis, runs upwards on the anterior abdominal wall to the umbilicus, and is prolonged as the umbiHcal artery to the placenta. One of its pelvic branches—the sciatic—is at first the main artery of the inferior extremity, but subsequently another branch is given off which becomes the chief arterial trunk of the lower limb. This branch is the external iliac artery; it soon equals and ultimately exceeds the internal ihac in size, and it is into these two vessels that the common iliac appears to bifurcate. "When the placental circulation ceases and the umbilical cord is severed, the part of the internal iliac trunk which extends from the pelvis to the umbilicus atrophies, and is afterwards represented almost entirely by a fibrous cord, known as the obliterated hypogastric artery. It is only at its proximal end that the atrophied part remains pervious, and here it forms the commencement of the superior vesical artery; accordingly, the permanent internal iliac artery is a com- paratively short vessel. Owing to the arrangement of some of its branches it appears to end in an anterior and a posterior division, the former of which is to be regarded as the continuation of the vessel to the obliterated hypogastric, whilst the latter is simply a common stem of origin for some of the branches. With this explanation the internal iliac artery may be described in the usual manner. It arises from the common ihac opposite the lumbo-sacral articulation, and