364 THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. Nerve-Supply of the Muscles of the Leg and Foot—continued. Muscles. Nerves. Origin. Soleus ...... Flexor lougus digitoraiu Tibialis posticus .... Flexor longus liallucis . Abductor hallucis .... Flexor brevis digitonini Flexor brevis hallucis . First Luinbricalis .... Second, third, and fourth luiubri- cales Flexor accessorius .... Adductores hallucis Interossei Flexor brevis minimi digiti . Abductor minimi digiti l^posterior tibial. | 1 internal plantar ) .external plantar J L. 5. S. 1. 2. L. 5. S. 1. L. 5. S. 1. L. 5. S. 1. 2. L. 4. 5. S. 1. S. 1. 2. Action op the Muscles of the Leg and Foot. Tlie muscles of the leg and foot act chiefly in the movements of the ankle-joint (assisted by movements of the inter-tarsal joints); of the metatarso-phalangeal joints (assisted by movements of the tarso-metatarsal and inter-nietatarsal joints); and of the inter-phalangeal joints of the several toes. I. Tibio-Fibular Articulations.—The upper tibio-fibular articulation is only capable of slight gliding movement, occasioned by the action of the biceps and popliteus and the muscles arising from the fibula. II. Movements at the Ankle-Joint.—The movements at the ankle-joint are movements of flexion and extension of the foot on the leg, along with inversion and eversion (only during extension). These movements are produced at the ankle, aided by movements in the inter-tarsal joints, and are occasioned by the following muscles :— a. Flexion. Extension. b. Inversion. Eversion. Tibialis anticus Extensor communis digitorum Extensor proprius hallucis Peroneus tertius Gastrocnemius Plantaris Soleus Tibialis posticus Peroneuslongus Peroneus brevis Flexor longus digitorum Flexor longus hallucis Tibialis anticus Tibialis posticus Peroneus tertius Peroneus longus Peroneus brevis III. Movements of the Toes—^. At the Metatarso-Phalangeal Joints (assisted by move- ments at the tarso-metatarsal and inter-metatarsal joints).—These movements are flexion and extension, abduction and adduction (in a line corresponding to the axis of the second toe). a. Flexion. Extension. Flexor longus digitorum Accessorius Lumbricales Flexor longus hallucis Flexor brevis hallucis Flexor brevis digitorum Flexor brevis minimi digiti Interossei Extensor longus digitorum Extensor brevis digitorum Extensor proprius hallucis b. Abduction. Adduction. {From and to the middle line of the second toe). Abductor hallucis Adductores hallucis Dorsal interossei Plantar intero,ssei Abductor minimi digiti