1132 UEOGENITAL SYSTEM. Position and Relations of the Uterus. — The position occupied by the uterus in the pelvis is not always the same, as it varies to some extent with the conditions of the neighbouring organs. The lower cervical part is, however, much more firmly fixed in place than the body and fundus, which possess a considerable amount of mobility. The uterus rarely lies exactly in the mesial plane of the body, but usually bends to one or other side, most frequently towards the right. The anterior surface of the uterus rests against the bladder, and follows the rising or falling of its superior wall as that organ becomes filled or emptied. When the bladder is empty the long axis of the uterus points forwards and upwards, and the organ is said to be in an anteverted position. Also the long axis of the uterus is bent on itself where the body joins the cervix, and so the organ is said to be antejiexed. The anteflexion is due to the fact that the more rigid cervix is firmly fixed, while the movable upper part of the uterus sinks forwards, following the l)ladder wall. With the empty condition of the bladder the angle formed between the long axis of the uterus and that of the vagina is about a right angle. When the bladder becomes filled, the antevertion and anteflexion of the uterus ])ecome less marked, owing to the body and fundus being pushed backwards. Finally, if the rectum be empty and the bladder very much distended, the uten;s is pushed so much backwards that the long axis of the organ may nearly correspond to that of the vagina. The uterus is then said to be retroverted. In the upper part the peritoneum intervenes between the anterior surface of the uterus and the bladder, on whicli it lies; lower down the two organs are separated merely liy connective tissue. The posterior surface looks into the pouch of Douglas, and is usually, like the fundus above, in relation to some loops of intestine. Laterally the uterus is related to the broad ligaments. The terminal parts of the ureters pass downwards, inwards, and a little forwards on each side of the cervix, but are separated from it by an interval of about three-quarters of an inch. The lowest part of the cervix is, as we have seen, enclosed within the cavity of the vagina. On each side of the cervix uteri and upper part of the vagina there is an interval in which lie numerous large vessels. These are surrounded by loose fatty tissue, wliich is continued upwards for a considerable distance between the layers of the broad ligament. This loose tissue, which is of surgical importance, has received the name parametrium. Structure of the Uterus.—Tlie thick uterine wall is composed of three chief layers, which are termed respectively the serous, the muscular, and the mucous coats. The serous coat or perimetrium (tunica serosa), is derived from the peritoneum, and covers the whole organ except the anterior surface of the cervix, and the part of the cervix which projects into the vagina. At the lateral borders it is continued into the broad ligaments. The serous coat of the uterus is very firmly adherent to the deeper layers, and cannot be easily peeled off without tearing either it or the underlying muscular tissue. The muscular coat (tunica muscularis) is composed of imstriped fibres, and forms the chief part of the uterine wall. The more superficial layer of this muscular coat sends prolongations into the recto-uterine folds, into the round and bi'oad ligaments of the uterus, and into the ovarian ligaments. Other fibres join the walls of the Fallojjian tubes. The main branches of the blood-vessels and nerves of the uterus lie among the muscle fibres. In the deeper layers of the muscular coat a considerable amount of connective tissue and some elastic fibres are to be found. The muscular coat of the cervix (tunica muscularis cervicis) contains more connective and elastic tissue than that of the body, and hence the greater firmness and rigidity of the cervical part of the uterus. The deeper and thicker part of the muscular tissue of the uterus is considered by some anatomists to represent a muscularis mucosae, and is therefore described as part of the mucous coat. The deep and superficial portions of the muscular coat are, howevei', quite continuous, and there is no representative of a submucous vascular layer of tissue such as in the alimentary canal separates the muscular coat from the muscularis mucosae. In the uterus the blood-vessels lie in the muscular coat. The mucous coat (tunica mucosa) in the body of the uterus is smooth and soft, and covered by columnar ciliated epithelium. Simple tubular glands (glandidse uterinse), also lined by a ciliated epithelium, are present in the mucous membrane, and penetrate in their deeper parts into the muscular coat. In the cervix of the uterus the mucous