THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 016 of the ischio-rectal fossa aud tlie fold of the nates behind the anus. This nerve replaces, in some cases, the perforating cutaneous nerve. Anterior Sacro-coccyg"eal Nerves (nn. ano-coccygei).—By the union of the remaining part of the fourth witli the fiftli sacral and coccygeal nerves, the so-called coccygeal plexus is formed. A fine descending branch of the fourth sacral nerve passes over or through the great sacro-sciatic ligament, to join the fifth sacral nerve. This fifth sacral nerve, joined l)y the descending branch of the fourth, descends alongside the coccyx and is again joined by the coccygeal nerve, so that a plexiform cord results, homologous with the inferior caudal trunk of tailed animals. Fine twigs arise from it, which pierce the sacro-sciatic ligament and supply tlie skin in the neighbourhood of tlie coccyx, internal to the perforating cutaneous nerves and behind the anus. The Pudic Nekve. Tlic pudic nerve (n. pudendus) is the principal nerve for the supply of the perineum. It arises in tlie pelvis usually by three roots from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves (Fig. 446, p. G14). (Frequently one of its branches, the inferior hsemorrhoidal nerve, arises independently from the third and fourth sacral nerves.) PEHINrAI. HRANCH OF FOURTH .SACK.\L NERVE ANTERIOR SACRO-COOCVUEAL NEKVE Fto. 447.—The Muscles and Nerves of the Male Perineum. The nerve passes to the buttock tlirough tlie great sacro-sciatic foramen below the great sciatic nerve, and lies on the lesser sacro-sciatic hgament, or the spine of the ischium, internal to the internal pudic artery. It enters the perineum along with the pudic artery through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. In the perineum it is deeply placed in the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, enclosed in a special sheath derived from the parietal pelvic fascia covering the inner surface of the obturator internus muscle. At the anterior limit of the ischio-rectal fossa, the nerve approaches the surface and divides at the base of the triangular ligament into its terminal branches, the perineal nerve and the dorsal nerve of the penis. The branches of the pudic nerve are essentially the same iu the two sexes. As a rule no branches are given off till the nerve enters the perineum, but some- times tlie inferior htiemorrhoidal nerve has an independent origin from the