UBOCIENITAT. SYSTEM. 1080 wall, the whole, or almost tlio wliole, of tliu left kichiey will lie fouiul to lie a))uVe the level of the ])laiie .so deterniiiied. It is, therefore, situated in the sul)costal zone of the aJ)doininal cavity. The right kidney, however, although it lies for the most ])art in tlie sulicostal zone, usually projects at its lowest part slightly lielow lli')iatic vi'ius riiri'iiic arti'i'v- Suprarenal limly Inferior vi'na cava Ascending coIdii C'jininon iliac vein CijUiiMOii iliac artery- Middle sacr.d artery Trfrinillation ot'iU'nni 1 External iliac riaclins (Kso|iliat;us < I lls ot iliapliragiii llirenic artery Sujirareiial body' < 'o-liac axis artery H i I -Capsnlar vein i'tll Snperiiir ' / mesenteric artery / Heiial artery lieiial vein Lninliar arteries L'reter T^eft colic arlery Jvarian artery Inferior iiiesenteric iirtery ~Descendiiig colon "Psoas muscle "Coiimion iliac artery Si;;moid artery I'oniTiion iliac \eiii Snjierior lueiiior- rliiiidal artery 1 liac colon Peh ic c{)loll IC\tenial iliac artery Kxteriial iliac vein Fallopian tube Flu. 720.—The Postkrkiu Abijomin.\i, Wall, after tlie removal of the stoniacli, liver, and tlie greater part of the intestines, .showing the position of the kidneys, the course of the ureters, etc. (A. H. Young and A. Robinson). the subcostiil plane, and so lies to a small extent in the umbilical zone. It is stated that in the female the kidneys are placed on a somewhat lower level than in the male. By far tlie greater part of each kidney lies to the inner side of a line drawn vertically upwards through tlie middle point of Poupart's ligament. The posterior aspect of the kidney is closely applied against the muscles attached to the bodies of the last dorsal and upper three lumbar vertel)r8e, and is placed in front "of the last rib and of the transverse processes of the upper three lumbar vertebrae. In some cases the eleventh rib also lies behind the upper part of the kidney; this happens more frequently on the left side of the body. The