FEMALE PELVIS. 1233 upwards the greater part, or even the whole, of the rectum may be excised without opening into the peritoneal cavity. The posterior surface of the prostate, the vesiculse seminales, and tlie external trigone of the bladder, may be exposed l)y making a trans\ ersely curved incision, convex forwards, between the two ischial tuberosities. The centre of the incision passes through the central point of the perineum, immediately behind the bulb, while laterally the incision sinks into the ischio-rectal fossa behind the trans- verse perineal muscles and the base of the triangular ligament. By dividing the anterior or pubo-rectal fibres of the levatores ani the lower part of the rectum is exposed, and may be readily separated from the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia. On dividing this fascia the posterior surface of the prostate is exposed, and above it the external trigone of the bladder, bounded laterally by the vesiculte seminales and the terminal portions of the vasa deferentia. FEMALE PELVIS. The external genitals are fully described at page 1136. Tlie external orifice of the urethra, surroimded by a slight annular prominence of the mucous membrane, is situated about 1 in. behind the clitoris, immediately above the centre of the base of the vestibule—a smooth triangular area at the anterior part of the vulva, with its sides formed by the labia minora and its base by the anterior margin of the ostium vaginae. In passing the catheter the instrument is directed along the forefinger (introduced just within the ostium vaginte with the palmar surface towards the symphysis pubis) to the base of the smooth vestibule, where it is tilted slightly upwards so as to bring its point opposite the meatus. Bartholin's glands, about the size of a bean, are placed one on either side of the posterior third of the orifice of the vagina, above the triangular ligament. Their ducts, nearly 1 in. in length, open posteriorly between the hymen and the posterior commissure (fossa navicularis). Abscesses and cysts not infrequently develop in connection with these glands. The bulbs of the vagina are two pyriform collections of erectile tissue situated one upon each side of the vestibule, between the sphincter vaginje and the anterior layer of the triangular ligament. Eupture of these bodies gives rise to the condition known as imdendal hccmatocele. In making a vagmal exwrninatioti the patient should be placed in the dorsal position, with the thighs well flexed; the index-finger of the right hand is now carried along the fold of the buttock towards the middle line, where it will impinge against the posterior aspect of the introitus vaginae, whence it is inserted upwards and backwards into the canal; to render the examination more thorough the middle finger may also be intro- duced. When the uterus is in i(,s normal position the vaginal portion of the cervix uteri is felt as a knob-like body projecting downwards and backwards into the upper part of the canal. In nulliparse the os uteri is a small transverse slit, whereas in women who have borne children it is larger and more or less fissured. Above and behind the cervix is the posterior fornix, which is in close proximity to the pouch of Douglas; this pouch, though normally empty, is the frequent site of displaced abdominal and pelvic organs,- and collections of intraperitoneal effusions and exudations. A loaded rectum can be detected through the vagina by the characteristic way in which the contents can be pitted by the finger. In front of the cervix is the shallow anterior fornix, through which may be felt the body of the uterus and the base of the bladder, while through the lower half of the anterior vaginal wall the urethra may be detected as a cylindrical, cord-like thickening which may be rolled against the lower border of the symphysis. The ureter, especially if enlarged, can be recognised through the antero-lateral fornix, by compressing it against the pubic bone. By the bimanual examiruition the pelvic organs are steadied and pushed downwards towards the pelvic outlet by the pressure of the left hand applied in the hypogastric region, so that they can be more readily reached and palpated .by the finger placed in the vagina with its palmar aspect directed upwards. The ovary may be felt as a firm body about the size of the end of the thumb by pushing the fingers well up into the lateral fornix towards the lateral wall of the pelvis. In health the ovaries are freely movable. The healthy Fallopian tubes cannot, as a rule, be felt per vaginam. The whole of the interior of the bladder in the female can be readily seen bv reflecting 78