716 THE OEGANS OF SENSE. superior) is anterior and external, and opens into the vestiljule immediately above that of the external canal. Its opposite extremity joins tlie non-ampuUated end of the posterior canal to form the crus commune, which is about 4 mm. in length and opens into the upper and inner part of the vestibule. The posterior semicircular canal (canalis semicircularis posterior) is the longest of the three and measures from 18-22 mm. Its ampullary end (ampulla ossea posterior) is placed inferiorly and opens into tlie lower and back part of the vestibule, where may be seen some six or eight small apertures, forming the macula cribrosa inferior, for the trans- mission of the nerves to this ampulla. Its upper extremity ends in the crus commune. The external canal (canalis semicircularis lateralis) is the shortest. It measures from 12-15 mm. and arches nearly horizontally outwards. Of its two extremities the external is ampuUated (ampulla ossea lateralis), and opens into the vestibule immediately above the fenestra ovalis and in close relationship to the ampullary end of the superior canal. Although the three canals are generally regarded as opening into the vestiliule by five orifices, some observers incline to the view that the ampullary ends of the superior and external canals form a common orifice, and that, consequently, there are only four opeiungs for the three canals. Cochlea.^—When freed from its surroundings the cochlea assumes the form of a short cone (Fig. 52?)); the central part of its base (basis cochlear) corresponds Recessus coc)ilearis of vestibule luteniiil auditory nieutus Fig. 523.—Section of Bony Cochlka. with tlie bottom of the internal auditory meatus, whilst its apex or cupola is directed forv/ards and outwards, and comes into close relation with the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. It measures al^out 9 mm. across the base and about 5 mm. from base to apex, and consists of a spirally-arranged tube, which forms from 2| to 2| coils around a central pillar termed the modiolus. The length of the tube is from 28 to 30 mm., and its diameter, near the base of the cochlea, 2 mm. Its coils are distinguislied by the terms basal, central, and apical; the first, or basal coil, gives rise to the promontory on the inner wall of the tympanum. The modiolus is about 3 mm. in height and diminishes rapidly in diameter from base to apex, while its tapered extremity fails to reach the cupola by a distance of 1 mm. Its base (basis modioli) corresponds with the area cochleae on the fundus of the internal auditory meatus and exhibits the tractus spiralis foraminosus, whicli transmits the nerves for the basal and central coils of the cochlea and the foramen centrale, which gives passage to the nerves for the apical coil. The foramina of the tractus spiralis foraminosus traverse the modiolus, at first parallel to its long axis, but, after a varying distance, they bend outwards to reach the attached edge of the lamina spiralis ossea, where they become expanded and form by their apposition a spiral canal, the canalis spiralis modioli of Rosenthal, which lodges the ganglion of Corti, or ganglion spirale cochleae. From this spiral canal numerous small foramina, for the transmission of vessels and nerves, pass outwards to the free edge of the lamina spiralis. The lamina spiralis ossea, a thin. Hat shelf of bone, winds round the ' In the following description the cochlea is supposed to be placed on its base.