447 MEDULLA OBLONGATA OE BULB. * proceeds upwards on the surface of the medulla. The fascicles which carry up the line of the posterior nerve-roots on the surface of the medulla are the root- bundles of the spinal accessory, the vagus, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerves. These are attached along the bottom of a furrow which is the direct continuation upwards / of the postero-lateral furrow of the cord, and therefore receives the name of the postero-lateral furrow of the medulla. The root-bundles of these nerves differ, however, in so far that they are not all com- posed of afferent fibres springing from gang- lionic cells placed with- out and entering the medulla. Certain of them are purely efferent (spinal accessory roots), whilst others likewise contain a considerable number of efferent fibres, and are therefore to be regarded as mixed roots. By the antero-pos- terior and the antero- lateral grooves, and also by the two rows of nerve fascicles attached along the bottom of these fur- rows, the surface of the medulla on each side is divided into three dis- tricts, viz. an anterior, a lateral, and a posterior, similar to the surface areas of the three columns on the side of the cord. Indeed, at first sight, they appear to be a direct continuation upwards of these three portions of the cord; this is not the case, however, because the fibres of the three columns of the cord undergo a rearrange- ment as they proceed upwards into the medulla. Anterior Area of the Medulla—Pyramid (pyramis).—The district between the antero-median fissure and the antero-lateral furrow, along the bottom of which the root-fascicles of the hypoglossal nerve issue from the medulla, receives the name of the pyramid. An inspection of the surface is sufficient to show that the pyramid is composed of a compact strand of longitudinally directed nerve-fibres. Tapering below, it expands and assumes a prominent appearance as it is traced upwards, and, finally reaching the lower border of the pons Varolii, it becomes slightly constricted and disappears from view by plunging into that portion of the brain. The two pyramids, separated from each other by the antero- median furrow, are the great motor strands of the medulla. Although the pyramid at first sight appears to be continuous with the anterior column of the cord, only a very small proportion of the fibres contained in the latter are derived from the pyramid. This at once becomes manifest when the lips of the antero-median fissure are thrust apart at the place of junction between the cord and the medulla. The pyramid is then seen to divide at this level into two parts, viz. a small portion composed of a variable number of the outermost fibres of the pyramid, termed the direct pyramidal tract, and a much larger portion situated next the antero-median fissure, called the crossed pyramidal tract. The direct pyramidal tract is continued down into the anterior column of the cord, and in this it takes up a mesial position next the antero-median fissure.. The crossed pyramidal tract is broken up into three or more coarse bundles, which sink backwards and at the same tinae cross the mesial plane, to take up a position Frenulum Valve of Vieussens Superior petluncle of the cerebellum Middle peduncle of the cerebellum Strine acusticEe Area acusticse Trigonuni vagi Cuueate tubercle Funiculus gracilis Ta?nia tlialami Pineal body Superior quadri- geminal body Inferior quadri- geminal body Crus cerebri Pontine part of floor of ventricle IV. Eniinentia teres Fovea superior Restiform body Trigonum hypoglossi Clava Rolandic tubercle Funiculus cuneatus Fig. 333.—Back View of the Medulla, Pons, and Mesencephalon of a full-time human fcetus.