INTEKNAL STRUCTUKE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 425 of the cervical swelling, but it reappears again in the upper part of the cord about the level of the third cervical nerve; followed in a downward direction it blends with the anterior horn in the lumbar swelling and contributes to the thickening of that cornu. It is interesting to note that it again reappears in the sacral region. The gray matter is for the most part mapped off from the surrounding white matter with a considerable degree of sharpness ; but in the cervical region, on the outer aspect of the crescentic mass and in the angle between the anterior and posterior horns, fine bands of gray matter penetrate the white matter, and, joining with each other, form a network the meshes of which enclose small islands of white matter. This constitutes what is called the formatio or processus reticularis. _ Although best marked in the cervical region, traces of the same reticular formation may be detected in the lower regions of the cord. Characters presented by the Gray Matter in Different Regions of the Cord. —The gray matter is not present in equal quantity nor does it exhibit the same form in all regions of the cord. Indeed, there is reason to believe that every cord segment presents its own special characters in both of these respects. It is not necessary, however, in the present instance to enter into this matter with any degree of minute detail. It will be sufficient if we point out the broad distinctions which are evident in the different regions. It may be regarded as a general law that, wherever there is an increase in the size of the nerves attached to a particular part of the cord, a corresponding increase in the amount of gray matter will be observed. It follows from this that the regions where the gray matter bulks most largely are the lumbar and the cervical sweUings. The great nerve-roots which go to form the nerves of the large limb-plexuses enter and pass out from those portions of the cord. In the dorsal region there is a reduction in the quantity of gray matter in correspondence with the smaller size of the dorsal nerves. In the dorsal region (Fig. 320, B) both horns of gray matter are narrow, although the distinction between the anterior horn and the still more attenuated posterior horn is sufficiently manifest. In the cervical region (Fig. 320, A) the contrast between the cornua is most marked; the anterior horn is of great size and presents a very broad surface towards the anterior aspect of the cord, whilst the posterior horn remains narrow. In the lumbar region (Fig. 320, C), on the other hand, the difference in the breadth of the two gray horns is not so marked, owing to a broadening out of the posterior horn. The increase in the quantity of gray matter in the cervical swelling is chiefly confined to the anterior horns, whilst in the lumbar swelling it takes place in both horns. In the lower part of the conus medtcllaris the gray matter in each lateral half of the cord assumes the form of an oval mass joined to its fellow of the opposite side by a thick gray commissure. Here almost the entire bulk of the cord consists of gray matter, seeing that the white matter is reduced to such an extent that it forms only a thin coating on the outside. White Matter of the Spinal Cord.—In transverse sections of the cord the three columns into which the white matter is subdivided become very apparent. The posterior column is wedge-shaped, and lies between the postero-median fissure and the posterior horn of gray matter. The lateral column occupies the concavity of the gray crescent. Behind, it is bounded by the posterior horn of gray matter and the postero-lateral sulcus, whilst in front it extends as far as the outermost fasciculi of the anterior nerve-roots as they pass out from the anterior gray horn. The anterior column includes the white matter between the antero-median fissure and the anterior horn of gray matter, and also the white matter which separates the broad extremity of the anterior gray^.cornu from the surface of the cord. This latter portion of the anterior column is traversed by the emerging fascicles of the anterior nerve-roots. In cross-sections of the cord the partition of pia mater, which dips in at the posterior paramedian groove and divides the posterior column into the column of Goll and the column of Burdach, is very strongly marked in the cervical region; but as it is traced downwards into the dorsal region it becomes shorter and fainter, and finally disappears altogether at the level of the eighth dorsal nerve. Below