STEENO-CLAVICULAE JOINT. 265 pulled ajiart in the latter case. Considered in connexion with respiration, it is necessary to observe that, to all intents and purposes, the vertebral column and the sternum are rigid structures. Next we must remember that the heads of all the ribs occupy fixed positions, and similarly the anterior ends of seven pairs of cartilages are fixed to the lateral margins of the sternum. Tlie ribs thus form arches, presenting a large amount of obliquity from behind forwards. Tliere- fore, during inspiration, when the rib is elevated, the arch becomes more horizontal, and the transverse diameter of the chest is increased. At the same time, the anterior ends of the sternal ribs tend to thrust the sternum forwards and upwards ; but the nature of the attachment of the first pair of ribs to the sternum, as well as the attachment of the diaphragm to the ensiform cartilage, prevents this movement from becoming excessive, and hence the sternum becomes a line of resistance to the forward thrust of the ribs. As a consequence, the ribs rotate upon themselves about an oblique axis which jaasses downwards, outwards, and backwards through the capitular joint and the neck of the rib anterior to the costo-transverse joint. In this way increase, both of the antero-posterior and transverse diameters of the thorax, is provided for, although the amount of increase is not equally pronounced in all planes. Thus at the level of the first rib very little eversion is possible, because the axis of rotation is nearly transverse, and therefore any increase in the transverse or antero-posterior thoracic diameters at this level may be disregarded, although a certain amount of elevation of the manubrium sterni and anterior end of the first rib is evident. Below the level of the sixth rib elevation and rotation of the rib during inspiration are usually said to be complicated by a certain amount of backward movement, due to the character of the costo-transverse joint, until, in the case of the last two ribs, which are destitute of costo- transverse joints, a movement backwards is almost entirely substituted for elevation. It is probable, however, that the movements of the asternal ribs exactly correspond to those of the sternal series, and that by the contraction of the costal digitations of the diaphragm the anterior ends of the asternal ribs are provided with fixed positions comparable to those supplied by the sternum to the ribs of the sternal series. We may therefore say that during inspiration the ribs move upwards and outwards between their fixed ends, while as a whole the rib rotates, and its anterior end is thrust slightly forwards. During expiration these movements are simply reversed. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. The bony g-rch formed by the clavicle and scapula articulates directly with the axial skeleton only at one point, viz. the sterno-clavicular joint. AETICULATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. The Sterno-clavicular Joint. The sterno-clavicular joint (articulatio sterno-clavicularis) is an example of an arthrodial diarthrosis. The articular surfaces concerned in its formation present the following appearances:— 1. The sternal end of theiclavicle is somewhat triangular in outhne, having its most prominent angle directed downwards and backwards. The anterior and posterior sides of the triangle are slightly roughened for the attachment of ligaments, while the base or inferior side is smooth and rounded, owing to the prolongation of the articular surface to the inferior aspect of the bone. In the antero-posterior direction the articular surface tends to be concave, while vertically it is shghtly convex. 2. An articular facet, situated on the superior lateral angle of the manubrium sterni, but in a plane slightly behind the supra-sternal notch, articulates with the clavicle. This facet is considerably smaller than the clavicular facet with which it articulates. 3. The superior surface of the first costal cartilage close to the sternum also participates to a small extent in the articulation. It should be noted that the articular surfaces of the clavicle and sternum are covered mainly by fibro-caitilage. A capsular ligament is well marked on all sides except inferiorly, where it is very thin. . The anterior sterno-clavicular ligament (Fig. 207) forms part of the capsule, and consists of short fibres which extend obliquely downwards and inwards from the anterior aspect of the sternal end of the clavicle to the adjoining anterior surface of the sternum and the anterior border of the first costal cartilage. The posterior sterno-clavicular ligament also forms part of the capsule, and