SUKFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. 1200 1 in. external to and a little below the level of the tip of the coracoid process. In examining the upper end of the humerus for fracture, the tuberosities should be grasped between the finger and thumb of one hand, while the flexed elbow is rotated with the other hand. The head of the humerus has the same direction as the internal condyle; its lower part can be palpated through the axilla, the arm Iteing meanwhile abducted, to bring the head in contact with the under suj.'face of the capsule. It is through this, the weakest part of the capsule, that the head is driven in the common varieties of dislocation of the shoulder, viz. those due to forcible aliduction. The upper epiphysis of the humerus includes the head and the greater yjart of the tulierosities. The capsule is mainly attached to the epiphysis; hence, in children, we find that separation of the upper epi})hysis takes the place of dislocation. Disease in the upper end of the diaphysis does not necessarily involve the cavity of the joint. Tlie bicipital groove of the humerus, which lies immedi- ately external to the lesser tulierosity, may be mapped out upon the surface by drawing a line, two inches in length, downwards along the axis of the humerus from the tip of the acromion. When there is effusion into the joint, the arm be- comes slightly abducted, and there is fulness in front, along the line of the long tendon of the biceps. With the elbow at the side the inferior part of the capsule of the shoulder-joint is loose and folded upon itself to form a dependent pocket; if, after an injury, the arm be retained too long in this position, the patient may be unal)le to abduct tlie arm in consequence of the formation of adhesions in aiul around the pouch. To evacuate pus from the shoulder joint, the integuments, deltoid, aiul capsule should be cut into by an incision passing vertically downwards from the tip of the acromion. THE AXILLA. The anterior fold tif the axilla, formed by the lower border (jf the pectoralis major, extends from the fifth rib to the middle of the anterior border of the deltoid. With the arm abducted, the interval between the sternal and clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major is indicated ])y a slight groove extending downwards and oi;t- wards from the inner end of the clavicle. The sternal fibres, along with the pectoralis minor, are removed in a complete operation for mahgnant disease of the l)reast, the pectoral branches of the thoracic axis artery being secured as they cross the interval between the sternal and clavicular portions of the greater pectoral. The posterior fold of the axilla, formed by the latissimus dorsi and the teres major muscles, is (in a lower level than the anterior fold, and leaves the chest a little in front of the inferior angle of the scapula. Between the two folds, and running in the long axis of the lim]>, from the axilla to the middle of the upper arm, is the prominence of the coraco-brachialis muscle. The pulsations of the third part of the axillary artery may be felt in the fuirow immediately behind this prominence at the junction of the anterior and middle thirds of the outer wall of the axilla. Female Mamma.—The breast tissue proper is arranged to form a central portion, the corpus inammcc, and a peripheral portion, made iip of branching processes which radiate into the paramammary fat and become continuous idtimately with the connective-tissue septa of the subcutaneous fatty tissue. The mamma, therefore, has no distinct capsule. In the young adult nullipara, the corpus mamma; is compact and well defined, and contains but little intramammary fat, while the peripheral processes are relatively small. In multipara, the corpus mamma? contains more fat, and the peripheral processes extend more widely into the paramammary fat. Tlie arraugeineut and extent of the parenchyma can he well seen by treating the l)rea.'<t with a 5 'per rent solntion (if nitric acid. It' slices of the fresh organ be placed in this solution for a lew minutes and then washed under running water, the albumen of the epithelial cells of tlie jjarenchyma is coagulated, while the connective tissue is rendered translucent and somewhat gelatinous. The ultimate lobules of theparcnchtpua now appear as little (1 to 2 ram.), dull, oj^aque, white, sago-like hodies, arranged in graiie-like clusters around the finer bi'anches of the duets. The parenchyma is prolonged into the peripheral processes, into the suspensory ligaments of Cooper, and into the loose retromammary cellular tissue and pectoral