876 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. reversed, and at this period the pericardial cavity which, like the area, is semilunar in shape, extends from side to side beneath the foregut, and its cornua are continuous at the sides of the foregut with the general body cavity of the embryo. Subsequently this con- tinuity is obliterated, and the pericardial cavity is separated from the pleuro-peritoneal part of the general body cavity or ccfilom. The mesoderm at the posterior end of the reversed pericardial region, whei'e the somatic and splanchnic layers are continuous, i.e. just in front of the umbilicus, increases in thickness and forms a semilunar mass, the septum transversum, in which the liver and the ventral part of the diaphragm are formed. The latter extends mesially from the anterior wall of the body to the foregut, immediately in front of the gastric dilatation, whilst laterally it forms two falciform projections which encroach from without upon the portions of the coelom which lie at the sides of the foregut. Ultimately the lateral portions of the diaphragm pass inwards, and, fusing with the mesentery of the foregut, they separate the pleuro-peritoneal portion of the coelom into three parts—two anterior, one on each side of the foregut, the pleural sacs, and a posterior, the peritoneal cavity. When the pericardial region is completely reversed the two vessels developed in its splanchnic layer lie side by side in what is now its dorsal wall. Posteriorly they are continued into the lateral part of the septum transversum, and through it they pass to the wall of the yolk sac. Anteriorly they are continued, as the first cephalic aortic arches, through the mandibular arches which have developed at the sides of the bucco-pharyngeal membrane, to the dorsal wall of the gut, where they pass backwards beneath the paraxial meso- derm and provertebral somites to the posterior end of the body, whence thej^ are continued, in the human subject, along the body stalk to the placental portion of the chorion, giving oft' branches to the walls of the alimentary canal and yolk sac. These two primitive embryonic vessels are the primitive aortse. After the formation of the cephalic and caudal folds, each primitive aorta may be looked upon as consisting of three parts imited by two arches :—an anterior ventral part, the anterior ventral aorta, situated partly in the septum transversum and partly in the dorsal wall of the pericardium and the root of the neck; a dorsal part, the primitive dorsal aorta, which extends beneath the paraxial meso- derm from the dorsal end of the mandibular arch to the tail fold; a posterior ventral part, the posterior ventral aorta, which passes to the yolk sac; the continuation of the posterior ventral aorta to the yolk sac soon atrophies, however, and the vessel is then prolonged from the posterior part of the ventral wall of the body to the placenta by a new branch. The two arches which unite tiie three main portions of each primitive aorta together are an anterior, the first cephalic aortic arch, which lies in the mandiVjular arch and passes from the anterior ventral aorta to the anterior end of the primitive dorsal aorta, and a jDosterior, the primary caudal aortic arch, which passes in the tail fold and at the side of the hind gut, from the primitive dorsal aorta to the posterior portion of the primitive ventral aorta. As development proceeds a series of transformations occurs in the various sections of the primitive aortse. These transformations are, with few exceptions, alike on the two sides, but the transformations which occur in one section are entirely different from those met with in the other sections; therefore each part must, to a certain extent, be considered separately. Each anterior ventral aorta is divisible into.-j;hree parts. The posterior part lies in the septum transversum. Posteriorly it forms the terminal portion of the vitelline vein, and carries the blood from the wall of the yolk sac. For a long time it remains sejsarate from its fellow of the opposite side, but afterwards the two vitelline veins xmite to form a common stem, which terminates at first in the posterior part of the heart, and subsequently in the liver. The anterior section of the posterior part of the anterior ventral aorta 1st cephalic aortic avcli Anterior primitive ventral aorta Primitive dorsal aorta Vitelline vein Umbilical vein Branches to yolk sac Vitelline artery Posterior primitive. ventral aorta Primary canrlal arch Allantoic artery Placenta Fio. 597.—DiAGR.\M OP THE Primitive Vas- cular System before the Formation of THE Heart.