525 TEMPOEAL LOBE. the cerebral fissure. It is apparently the only part which is developed in the ape, and often also it is the only part which is present in the brain of the microcephalic idiot. It is not uncommon, in the normal cerebrum, to find that it presents an ape-like form and is completely cut off from the posterior part of the fissure. The posterior calcarine fissure is a secondary formation. It appears much later, and usually in two pieces, which run together and then join the anterior calcarine fissure. The points of union are indicated in the adult by tlie two cuneo-lingual deep gyri. The posterior calcarine fissure is a purely human characteristic ; it is not found in any ape, and is usually absent also in tlie more intense forms of microcephalic idiocy. The cuneus is the wedge-shaped or triangtilar district, on the mesial aspect of the occipital lobe, which lies between the internal parieto-occipital and calcarine fissures. The gyrus lingualis is a well-roarked convolution between the calcarine fissure above and the posterior part of the collateral fissure Ijelow, which stretches forwards from the occipital pole. Anteriorly, it becomes very narrow and joins the hippocampal part of the limbic lobe. It lies partly on the mesial surface and partly on the tentorial surface of the occipital lobe. On the tentorial surface of the occipital lohe there is only one convolution, viz. the posterior part of the occipito-temporal gyrus. It proceeds continuously forwards into the temporal lobe on the outer side of the collateral fissure, and is bounded externally by the occipito-temporal sulcus, a furrow whicli is rarely con- tinuous, but is usually represented liy a series of detached pieces. There are two well-marked sulci on the external surface of tlie occipital lohe, the sulcus occipitalis transversus and the sulcus occipitalis lateralis. The sulcus occipitalis transversus extends transversely across the upper part of the lobe, behind the arcus parieto-occipitalis. As already explained, it is the terminal bifurcation of the ramus occipitalis of tlie iutraparietal sulcus. The sulcus occipitalis lateralis is a short horizontal furrow, which divides the outer surface of the lobe into an upper and a lower area of very nearly equal extent. These areas are connected by super- ficial annectant gyri with the parietal and temporal lobes. Temporal Lobe.—The temporal lobe lies behind the stem and below the posterior horizontal limb of the Sylvian fissure. It is somewhat pyramidal in form, and presents an upper, an outer, and a tentorial surface, with a free projecting apex or pole. Above, it is bounded by the posterior horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, together with the artificial line which is drawn backwards from this. On the tentorial face it is separated from the hippocampal part of the limbic lobe by the collateral fissure, whilst behind it is marked off from the occipital lobe by the artificial lines already described. The temporal pole projects forwards on the under surface of the brain beyond the stem of the Sylvian fissure. It should be noticed that the recurved end of the hippocampal part of the limbic lobe (uncus), which lies to the inner side of the temporal pole, does not extend so far forwards as the latter, and is separated from the pole by the incisura temporalis. This sulcus may be regarded as the connecting link between the anterior end of tlie collateral fissure and the inferior limiting sulcus of Eeil. The importance of tliis connexion is evident when we recollect that, strictly speaking, the inferior limiting sulcus of Reil is the true upper limit of the temporal lobe. The upper or opercular surface of the temporal lohe is turned towards the island of Eeil and the fronto-parietal operculum. The fissure of Sylvius must, therefore, be widely opened up to expose it. For the most part the surface is smooth, but towards the back part there are a few transverse furrows, which separate two or three weakly-expressed gyri. The anterior transverse gyrus is much more strongly expressed in the foetal than in the adult brain. It appears in the early part of the seventh month, and is only subsequently completely hidden within the Sylvian fissure. The fact of the auditory centre being localised in this region of the temporal lobe makes this fact of interest. On the deep surface of the temporal pole there are also a few feeble furrows. On the outer suoface of the temporal lohe there are two horizontal sulci, called respectively the first temporal or parallel and the second temporal sulcus. The parallel sulcus is a long, continuous, and deep fissure, which l)egins near the temporal pole and proceeds backwards below the posterior limb of the Sylvian