518 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. of the collateral fissure; at the same time it must be admitted that the two are seldom continuous with each other. The collateral fissure and the incisura temporalis intervene between the Umbic and temporal lobes. Fig. 386.—The Gyhi and Sulci on the Mesial Aspect of the Cerebkal Hemisphere. r, Fissure of Rolando, r.o, Rostral sulcus, i.t, Incisura temporalis. Tlie collateral fissure is developed, as a rule, in three portions—a hinder or occipital, an intermediate, and an anterior or temporal part. These ultimately run into each other and form the continuous fissure. The middle part is usually a complete fissure and responsible for the pro- duction of the eminentia collateralis posterior in the floor of the trigonum of the lateral ventricle ; the temporal part is sometimes a complete fissure, forming when it is so the eminentia collateralis anterior; the occipital part is always incomplete. Calloso-inarginal Fissure.—This fissure is a strongly-marked sulcus on the forepart of the mesial surface of the hemisphere. It divides the front portion of the mesial surface into an upper marginal and a lower callosal convolution, and intervenes between the frontal and Umbic lobes. Beginning below the fore end of the corpus callosum, close to the locus perforatus anticus, the calloso-marginal fissure curves round in front of the genu of the corpus callosum, and then extends backwards to a point a short distance behind the middle of the mesial surface. It then turns vipwards and cuts the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere, immediately behind the upper end of the fissure of Eolando. The relation presented by the two extremities of these fissures is such that they can both be.readily recognised either when examined on the outer or mesial aspect of the cerebrum. The calloso-marginal sulcus is developed in two or three separate pieces, which, as growth proceeds, run into each other and form the continuous fissure. The numerous cases of irregular arrangement met with in connection with this fissure can generally be explained by this inter- ruiJted mode of development. Frontal Lobe.—The frontal lobe is the largest of the cerebral lobes. On the outer surface of the hemisphere, it is bounded behind by the fissure of Eolando and below by the posterior horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius. On the mesial face it is limited by the calloso-marginal fissure, whilst on the inferior surface of the hemisphere the stem of the Sylvian fissure forms its posterior boundary. It presents an outer surface, a mesial surface, and an inferior or orbital surface. On the outer surface of the frontal lobe the following sulci and gyri may be recognised:— - Sulcus prajcentralis inferior. / Gyrus frontalis ascendens or gyrus Sulcus prajcentralis superior. Sulcus paramedialis. centralis anterior. Sidci I Sulcus frontalis superior. Sulcus frontalis medius. Sulcus frontalis inferior. Sulcus diagonalis. .Sulcus fronto-marginalis.