THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. 580 The branches to the pleura and pericardium arise as the phrenic nerve traverses the mediastinum. The branches to the inferior vena cava, suprarenal capsule, and liver arise after communication of the phrenic nerve with the diaphragmatic plexus of the sympathetic on the abdominal surface of the diaphragm. Communications of the Phrenic Nerve. — 1. The phrenic nerve may communi- cate with the nerve to the subclavius muscle. 2. It may commmiicate with the ansa hypoglosd, or a branch from it (the nerve to the sterno-hyoid.) 3. It frequently com- municates with the cervical part of the sympathetic. 4. It communicates with the solar plexus by a junction upon the abdominal surface of the diai^hragm with the diajphrag- matic plexus on the inferior phrenic artery, in which a small diaphragmatic ganglion is found on the right side. From this junction branches are given off to the inferior vena cava, suprarenal capsule, and hepatic plexus. MOKPHOLOGY OF THE CERVICAL PlEXUS. The characteristic feature of the cervical plexus is the combination of jjarts of adjacent nerves into compound nerve trunks by the formation of series of loops. The result of tlie formation of these loops is tliat parts (particularly cutaneous areas) are supplied by branches of more than one spinal nerve. A. Cutaneous Distribution.—By the combinations of the nerves into loops the discrimination of tlie elements in the ujjper cervical nerves, corresponding to the lateral and anterior branches of a typical thoracic nerve, is made a matter of some difficulty. The second, third, and fourth nerves, through the cervical plexus, supply an area of skin extending, laterally, from the side of tbe head to the shoulder ; anteriorly, from the face to the level of the nipple. The higher nerves supply the upper region (second and third); the lower nerves supply the lower region (third and fourth). It is not possible to strictly compare the individual nerves with the lateral and anterior branches of a thoracic nerve. A line drawn from the ear to the middle of the clavicle separates, however, a lateral from an anterior cutaneous area; and certain of the cutaneous nerves fall naturally into one of these two categories. The nerves homologous with anterior branches of intercostal nerves are the superficial cervical and the sternal branches of the supra-clavicular series; those homologous with lateral branches are the small occipital and acromial branches. The great auricular and clavicular branches are mixed nerves, comprising elements belonging to both sets. B. Muscular Distribution.—The nerves from the cervical plexus, supplying muscles, are simpler in their arrangement. They are not generally in the form of loops, and they are easily separated into lateral and anterior series. The lateral nerves comprise tlie branches to the rectus capitis lateralis, sterno-mastoid, trapezius, levator anguli scapuliE. The nerves in the anterior series are those to the recti antici, the hyoid muscles, and the diaphragm. It is noteworthy that the median muscles—genio-liyoid, thyro-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and diaphragm—are continuously supplied by branches from the first five cervical nerves : the higher muscles by the higher nerves ; the lower muscles by the lower nerves. THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. The brachial plexus is formed by the anterior primary divisions of the iifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, along with the greater part of the first thoracic nerve. In some cases a slender branch of the fourth cervical nerve is also engaged; and the second thoracic nerve, in all cases, also contributes to the inner- vation of the arm, through the intercosto-humeral nerve. In many cases it contributes also directly to the plexus, by an intra-thoracic communication with the first thoracic nerve. Position of the Plexus.—The nerves forming the brachial plexus appear in the posterior triangle of the neck between the scalenus anticus and scalenus medius muscles ; the plexus is formed in close relation to the subclavian and axillary arteries; the nerves emanating from it accompany the artery to the axilla, where they are distributed to the shoulder and upper limb. Communication with the Sympathetic. — The lower four cervical nerves com- municate with the cervical portion of the sympathetic by means of gray rami communi- cantes. Two branches arise from the middle cervical ganglion, and join the anterior primary divisions of the fifth and sixth nerves. Two arising from the inferior cervical ganglion join the seventh and eighth nerves. They reach the nerves either by piercing the prevertebral muscles or by passing round the border of the scalenus anticus muscle.