FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 373 a. Extension and Flexion. Latissimus dorsi Erector spinse Multificliis sinn£e (acting on both sides) Psoas magnus and jjarvus Rectus abdominis Pyramidalis abdominis O'bliqnus externus abdominis Obliquus internus „ Transversalis abdominis (acting on both sides) Pyriformis Glutei Obturator (externus and internus) Sartorius Tensor fasciae femoris Iliacus Rectus femoris Adductors (in erect position) h. Lateral Flexors and extensors of side only | Movement. Quadratus lumborum THE FASCIJ^ AND MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. FASCIJE. The superficial fascia of the head and neck possesses certain features of special interest. Over ^he scalp it is closely adherent to the skin and subjacent epicranial aponeurosis, and contains the superficial vessels and nerves. Beneath the skin of the eyelids it is loose and thin and contains no fat. Over the face and at the side of the neck it is separated from the deep fascia by the facial muscles and the platysma myoides. In the hollow between the buccinator and the masseter it is continuous with a pad of fat (suctorial pad) occupying the interval between these muscles., The deep fascia of the head and neck presents many remarkable characters. Over the scalp it is represented by the epicranial aponeurosis, the tendon of the occipito-frontalis muscle. This is a tough membrane, tightly stretched over the calvarium, from which it is separated by loose areolar tissue. It is attached posteriorly, partly through the agency of the occipitalis muscle, to the superior curved line of the occipital, bone; anteriorly it joins the frontalis muscle and the orbicularis palpebrarum, and has no bony attachment; laterally it is attached to the temporal ridge and the mastoid process. Below the temporal ridge it is con- tinuous with the temporal fascia, a stout layer of fascia attached to the temporal ridge and zygomatic arch, which covers and gives origin to the temporal muscle. This fascia separates into two layers above the zygoma, to enclose a quantity of fat along with branches of the temporal and orbital arteries. On the face the fascia is practically non-existent anteriorly in relation to the facial muscles. Posteriorly it forms the thin masseteric fascia, and is much thicker in relation to the parotid gland, for which it forms a capsule. In the neck the deep fascia invests the muscles, and forms aponeurotic cover- ings for the pharynx, trachea, oesophagus, glands, and large vessels. It encloses the sterno-mastoid muscle, and can be traced backwards over the posterior triangle to the trapezius and deeper muscles, which it surrounds; it can be traced forwards over the anterior triangle to the middle line of the neck, over which it forms a continuous membrane. Above the sternum the fascia, after enclosing the sterno- mastoid, is attached in the form of two layers to the front and back of the episternal notch. The layer enclosing the infrahyoid muscles passes across the middle line of the neck in front of the trachea, and is attached above to the hyoid bone, below to the sternum, clavicle, and first rib. A third layer of fascia passes inwards in front of the trachea, enclosing the thyroid body. Beneath the sterno-