810 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. Gluteus maximiis Gluteus medius Gluteus minimus Deep branch of yluteal artery 3. Sciatic Artery (a. gluta?a inferior, Figs. 569 and 571).—The sciatic artery arises, usually distinct from tlie pudic artery, but sometimes in common with it, from the anterior division of the internal iliac. It descends a little behind and external to the pudic vessels, pierces the pelvic fascia, runs back- wards between the first and second, or second and third sacral nerves, and passing between the pyriformis and coc- cygeus inuscles, leaves the pelvis through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen, and enters the buttock just below the pyri- formis. In the but- tock it descends be- hind and to theinner side of the great sciatic nerve beneath the gluteus maxi- mus, and over the obturator internus, the two gemelli, the quadratus femoris, and upper part of the adductormagnus muscles, to the upper part of the thigh. Below the lower border of the gluteus maximus the artery is comparatively superficial, and having given off its largest branches, it descends as a long slender vessel with the small sciatic nerve. Muscular branch of profunda artery Pyriformis Obturator internus and gemelli Ascending branch I if internal circumflex artery Quadratus femoris Transverse branch of internal circumflex artery 1st perforating artery 2nd perforating artery 3rd perforating artery Termination of profunda artery (4th perforating) Popliteal artery Superior internal articular artery Semitcndinosus Gastrocnemius ^hort head of biceps head of biceps Popliteal vein Superior external articular artery Muscular artery Flo. 571.—The Arteries of the Bdttock and the Back of the Thigh and Knee. — (Jastrocnemius Branches. —In the pelvis.—Small and irregular branches supply the adjacent viscera and muscles and the sacral nerves ; they anastomose with branches of the internal pudic and lateral sacral arteries. In the huttock. — {a) Muscular branches are given oft' to the muscles of the buttock and to the upper parts of the hamstring muscles. They anastomose with the pudic, internal circumflex, and obturator arteries, (b) The coccygeal branch arises immediately after the artery leaves the pelvis. It runs inwards, pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and ends in the soft tissues over the