THE AKACHNOIDEA. 559 When the interior of the tube of spinal dura mater is inspected, the series of apertures of exit for the roots of the spinal nerves is seen. These are ranged in pairs opposite each intervertebral foramen. Viewed from tlie inside of the tube of dura mater, each of tlie two roots of a spinal nerve is seen to carry with it a special and distinct sheath. When examined on the outside, liowever, the appearance is sucli tliat one miglit be led to conclude tliat both roots are enveloped in one sheath of dura mater. This is due to the fact that the two sheaths are firndy held together by inter- vening connective tissue. The two tubular sheaths remain distinct as far as the ganglion on the jTOsterior root, and then blend with each other. Subdural Space.—-The dura mater and the arachnoid mater are closely applied to each other, and the capillary interval between them is termed the subdural space. It contains a minute quantity of fluid, which is jiist sufficient in amount to moisten the opposed surfaces of the two bounding membranes. The suljdural space in no way comnumicates with the subarachnoid Sf)ace. The fluid whicli it contains is led into the venous blood-sinuses around the Pacchionian bodies, and thus gains exit. The subdural space is carried outwards for a very sliort distance on the various nerves ■wliich are connected M'itli the brain and the spinal cord, and it lias a free communication with tlie lymph paths present in these nerves. In the case of the optic nerve the sheath of dura mater is carried along its whole length, and with it the subdural space is likewise prolonged'to the back of the eyeball. The Arachnoidea. The arachnoid mater is a very thin membrane, remarkable for its delicacy and transparency, which envelopes l)oth the brain and the cord between the dura mater and the pia mater. The cranial part of the arachnoid mater or the arachnoidea encephali, except in the case of the great longitudinal and the Sylvian fissures, does l':M-cllinl,i;ul iMidy Fia. 414.—Diagram to show the relations of the niembranes of the brain to the cranial wall and the cerebral convolutions, and also of the Pacchionian bodies to the superior longitudinal sinus and the lateral lacunae. not dip into the sulci on the surface of the brain. In this respect it differs from the pia mater. It bridges over the inequalities on the surface of the brain. Consequently, on the basal aspect of the encephalon it is spread out in the form of a very distinct sheet over the medulla, the pons Varolii, and the hollow which lies in front of the pons, and in certain of these regions it is separated from the brain- surface by wide intervals. The spinal part of the arachnoid mater or arachnoidea spinalis, which is directly continuous with the cranial arachnoidea, forms a loose wide investment for the