THE ORGANS OF SENSE. 714 «hort process of the malleus—one to the anterior, the other to the posterior margin of the notch of Riviuus. A recess, the pouch of Prussak, is situated between the membrana liaccida and the neck of the malleus. Communicating behind with the tympanic cavity, this pouch may serve as a reservoir to confine pus or other fluid, since its opening into the tympanum is above the level of its floor, a condition analogous to the opening from the antriim of Highmore into the nasal cavity. Tlie fold of mucous membrane which extends downwards to envelop the chorda tyrapani nerve gives rise to two pouches, one in front of, and the other behind, the handle of the malleus; these are named the anterior and posterior recesses of Troltsch. The epithelium which lines the mucous membrane is flattened over the membrana tympani, promontory and ossicles, but ciliated and columnar over the greater portion of the rest of the cavity. Vessels and Nerves of the Tympanic Cavity. The arteries whicli supply tlie tympanic cavity are : (1) The tympanic artery, a branch of internal maxillary, which reaches the cavity l)y way of the Glaserian fissure. (2) The stylo-mastoid hrancli of posterior auricular, which passes tliroTigh the stylo-mastoid foramen and aqueduct of Fallopius ; it supplies branches to the mastoid antrum and air-cells, to the stapedius muscle, to the floor and inner wall of the tympanic cavity, and forms an anastomotic circle, around the membrana tympani, with the tympanic artery. (3) The middle meningeal artery sends a branch to the tensor tympani muscle, and, after entering the skull, gives off its petrosal artery, which is conducted to the tjaniianum along the hiatus Fallopii; some twigs from the posterior division of the middle meningeal reach the antrum and ef)itympanic recess through the petro-squamous fissure. (4) The internal carotid artery, in its passage through the canal in the temporal bone, gives off one or two tympanic twigs, while (5) a branch from the ascending pharyngeal accompanies the nerA-e of Jacobson. The veins drain their contents into the jiterygoid j)lex\is, the middle meningeal vein, and superior petrosal sinus. The nerves which supjjly the muscles of tlie tympanic cavity have already been referred to {p. 713). The mucous membrane receives its nerves from the tympanic plexus, which is descriljed on p. 648. The chorda tymjiani bi'anch of the facial nerve jiasses from Ixdiind forwards through the tympanic cavity. Early condition of Tympanic Cavity.—During the greater part of intrauterine existence the tymjianic cavity is almost completely filled by a soft, reddish, jelly-like embryonic tissue. The narrow, slit-like space is lined by epithelium, which is ciliated over the promontory, but squamous elsewhere. Towards the end of fcetal life, the gelatinous tissue becomes thinned and the cavity correspondinglj' enlarged. At liirth it is filled with fluid whicli becomes absorbed, coincident with tlie passage of air fronr the naso-pharynx, through the Eustachian tube. INTERNAL EAR. The innermost, and, at the same time, the essential part of the organ of hearing is situated in the substance of the petrous-temporal bone, and consists of two sets of structures, viz.: (1) a series of cavities hollowed out of the bone and constituting the bony labyrinth (labyrinthus osseus); these cavities are continuous with each Superior semicircular caiuil Ampulla of superior semicircular canal Caiialis facialis Cochlea Fenestra rotunda Fenestra oralis Ampulla of posterior semi circular canal Ampulla of external semi- circular canal Kxternal semicircular canal :eri(jr semi- circular canal Cms comnnnie Fig. 521. -Left Bony Labyrinth (viewed from the outer aspect). Keeessus ellipticu. Crista vestibuli Recessus spliiei'icus Suala tympani I^ainina spiralis esse Scala vestibuli Opening of aqueductus cochleie Fenestra rotund Recessus cocblearis Opening 'penini; of of cru aqued s commune uctus vestibuli Fig. 522. -Interioe of Left Bony Labyrinth (viewed from outer aspect). other, and are named from before backwards the cochlea, vestibule, and semicircular canals (Figs. 521, 522); (2) a complex arrangement of membranous channels (Fig. 524), situated within, but not nearly filling, the bony labyrinth and forming the