361 THE MUSCLES IN THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. digitorum, to which it is connected by a strong fibrous band destined for the tendons for the second and third toes. At the root of the great toe the tendon occupies the interval between the insertions of the flexor brevis halhicis. The tibialis posticus muscle (m. tibialis posterior) has a fourfold origin in the leg. It arises (1) from the middle three-fifths of the shaft of the fibula between the oblique hue and the interosseous border; (2) from the middle third of the back of the tibia between the vertical line and the interosseous border; (3) from the interosseous membrane; and (4) from the fascia over it and the septa on either side. The muscle gives rise to a strong tendon which passes beneath the internal annular ligament, invested by a special synovial sheath, and grooves the back of the internal malleolus, on its way to the inner border of the foot. Its tendon then spreads out and is inserted by three bands into (1) the navicular and internal cunei- form bones, (2) the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones, the middle and external cuneiform and the cuboid bones, and (3) by a recurrent slip into the inner border of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis (Fig. 262). In the leg the tibialis posticus is con- cealed, as it lies on the interosseous mem- brane between the tibia and fibula, by the superficial muscles and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. It lies between the flexor longus hallucis and flexor longus digitorum, and is crossed by the tendon of the latter muscle just above the ankle. In the foot its tendon is covered by the long flexor tendons and by the short flexor muscles of the great toe. The tendon is in contact with the inferior calcaneo- navicular ligament in the interval between the sustentaculum tali and the navicular bone. The peroneo-calcaneus muscle, when present, arises from the fibula, and is inserted into the os calcis. Abductor MINIMI DIGITI Flexor BBEVIS digitorum LANTAR FASCIA Fig. 266.—The Muscles of the Right Foot (after removal of the plantar fascia). The Muscles in the Sole of the Foot. The muscles in the sole of the foot are divisible into four layers placed beneath the plantar fascia. First layer: Abductor hallucis, flexor brevis digitorum, abductor minimi digiti. Second layer: Lumbricales and accessorius, together with the tendons of the flexor longus hallucis and flexor longus digitorum. Third layer: Flexor brevis hallucis, adductors of the great toe, and flexor brevis minimi digiti. Fourth layer: luterossei (plantar and dorsal). The abductor hallucis has a double origin from (1) the greater tubercle on the tuberosity of the os calcis, and (2) the internal annular ligament and plantar fascia. Lying superficially along the inner border of the sole, its tendon is inserted, along with part of the flexor brevis hallucis, into the inner side of the first phalanx of the great toe. The muscle lies beneath the plantar fascia, internal to the flexor brevis digitorum, and conceals the plantar vessels and nerves, and near its origin the long flexor tendons. The flexor brevis digitorum has likewise a double origin: (1) from the fore-part of the greater tubercle of the tuberosity of the os calcis, and (2) from