THE ORGAN.S OF SENSE. 706 seen below the last; it is caused by the upward and forward prolongation of the styloid process. The anterior wall (paries carotica) is narrowed in its transverse diameter by the approximation of the outer and inner boundaries of the cavity, and in its vertical diameter by the descent of the roof and ascent of the floor. It presents (Fig. 515) two parallel canals, one above the other, separated by a thin lamella of bone, the processus cochleariformis (septum canalis musculo-tubarii). The higher and smaller of the two is termed the canal for the tensor tympani muscle (semicanalis m. tensoris tympani) and lies immediately below the tegmen tympani. It has a diameter of about 2 mm. and extends on to the inner wall of the tympanic cavity. The lower and larger canal gradually increases in size from before backwards, and forms the bony part of the Eustachian tube (semicanalis tubee auditivse). It opens on the anterior wall of the tympanic cavity opposite the orifice leading into the mastoid antrum. The Eustachian tube is described on p. 708. The outer wall (paries membranacea) is formed almost entirely by the mem- brana tympani, which closes the inner extremity of the external auditory meatus (Fig. 516) and is fixed, throughout the greater part of its circumference, in a groove, the sulcus tympanicus. The bony ring containing this sulcus is deficient superiorly where it exhibits a distinct notch, the notch of Rivinus. On a level with the upper edge of the membrane, and in front of the ring of bone in which it is fixed, is the inner end of the Glaserian fissure, or remnant of the fissura petro-tympanica. This transmits the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery and lodges the processus gracilis and anterior ligament of the malleus. Close to the inner extremity of the fissure is the canal of Huguier, or iter chordae anterius, through which the chorda tympani nerve leaves the tympanum. Membrana Tympani.—This is an elliptical disc, its greatest diameter, 9 to 10 mm., being directed from above and behind, downwards and forwards, whilst its least diameter is from 8 to 9 mm. Its antero-inferior portion inclines markedly inwards, and thus the membrane is placed very obliquely, forming an angle of about 55° with the lower and anterior walls of the external auditory meatus; its antero-inferior part is, therefore, most distant from the outer orifice of the meatus. The membrane is said to be more oblique in cretins and deaf mutes, and more per- pendicular in musicians. The circumference of that portion of the membrane which is fixed in the sulcus tympanicus is considerably thickened, and is named the annulus fibro-cartilagineus. It is prolonged from the anterior and posterior extremities of the notch of Kivinus to the short process of the malleus in the form of two ligamentous bands, the anterior and posterior malleolar folds or ligaments (plica malleolaris anterior et posterior). Tlie small triangular portion of the membrane (Fig. 516), situated above these folds, is thin and lax, and constitutes the pars flaccida or membrane of Shrapnell; the main portion of the membrane is, on the other hand, tightly stretched and termed the pars tensa. A small orifice, sometimes seen in the pars flaccida, is probably either a pathological condition or has been artificially pro- duced during manipulation. The handle of the malleus is firmly fixed to the inner surface of the membrana tympani and draws its central portion inwards, rendering its outer aspect concave. The deepest part of this concavity corresponds with the lower extremity of the handle of the malleus, and is named the umbo membranse tympanse or navel. The membrana tympani consists of three layers: (1) external, integumentary (stratum cutaneum) ; (2) middle, fibrous (membrana propria); (3) internal, mucous (stratum mucosum). The external layer (stratum cutaneum) is continuous with the integumentary lining of the meatus and consists of a thin layer of cutis, covered by epidermis. The cutis is thickest near the circumference; the epidermis, on the other hand, is thickest near the centre of the membrane. The middle layer (membrana propria) consists of two sets of fibres: («) external or radial (stratum radiatum), immediately under the integument, and radiating outwards from the handle of the malleus to the annulus fibro-cartilagineus; (b) internal or circular (stratum circulare), the fibres of which are numerous