1139 DEVELOPMENT OF THE UKOGENITAL ORGANS. what cylindrical portions, the corpora cavernosa clitoridis. Tlieso represent the corpora cavernosa of the male, and diverge from one another at the root of the clitoris to form the crura clitoridis. A suspensory ligament (ligamentum suspensorinm clito- ridis) passes from the ftljrous coat of the liody of the clitoris to the symphysis pul)is. The glans clitoridis is a small mass of erectile tissue which is fitted over the pointed end of the body. It possesses, like the glans penis which it represents, a very sensitive epithelium. The prepuce, or fold of skin which covers it, and the frenulum which is attached to it interiorly, are continuous with the labia minora (Fig. 778). The crura clitoridis diverge from the l)ody posteriorly, and are attached to the sides of the pubic arch. ' Each is continuous with one of the corpora cavernosa, and has a firm fibrous sheath, which is covered by the corresponding ischio-cavernosus or erector clitoridis muscle. In structure the crura and body of the clitoris re- semble the corpora cavernosa penis, while the glans more closely resembles the bulbus vestibuli, with which it is continuous through a structure known as the pars intermedia. In the seal and .some other animals, a bone, wliich represents tlie os penis of tlie male, is developed in the se])tinn of the clitoris. This bone receives the name OS clitoridis. Arteries and Nerves of the Clitoris.—Each crus receives a Inanch (arteria profunda clito- ridis) from the internal pudic artery, while tlie glans is supplied liy Ijranclies of the dorsal arteries of the clitoris (arteri;u dorsalis clitoridis). The nerve sujjply of the clitoris is derived 2>ai't]y frcim the hypogastric sympathetic plexus and partly from the dorsal nerves of the clitoiis. Bulbus Vestibuli.—The bulbus vestibuli is a mass of erectile tissue, in the female, which corresponds developmentally to the corpus spongiosum urethne of the male. In the female the fusion of the two halves of this structure is not nearly so complete as in the male, for the vagina and urethra separate the bulbus vestibuli into two lateral portions w'hich are only slightly connected in front l)y a narrow median part called the pars intermedia. Each lateral portion of the bulb is thick and massive posteriorly, and more pointed in front where it joins the pars intermedia. It rests against the side wall of the vagina, and upon the superficial aspect of the triangular ligament. Superficially it is covered by the bulbo- cavernosus muscle. The })ars intermedia lies al)Ove the urethra, and becomes con- tinuous with the tissue of the glans clitoridis. It represents a part of the corpus spongiosum urethra? of the male. The bulbus vestibuli is for the most part composed of minute convoluted blood- vessels, held together by a very small amount of connective tissue. These vessels frequently anastomose with one another, and those of each lateral half are con- tinuous with the vessels of the pars intermedia and of the glans clitoridis. The blood supply of the bulb is derived on each side from a branch (arteria bulbi vestibuli) of the internal pudic. The Glands of Bartholin. The glands of Bartholin (glanduhe vestibulares majores) are placed one on each side of the lower part of the vagina, and represent Cowper's glands in the male. They are often overlapped liy the posterior ends of the bulbus vestiludi, and are covered by the bulbo-cavernosus muscle. Each is about the size and shape of a small bean, and possesses a long slender duct which opens into the urogenital cleft in the angle between the attached l)order of the laliium minus and the vao-inal opening. DEVELOPMENT OF THE fiROGENITAL ORGANS. In tracing the developmental history of the urogenital system we may begin M itli an embryo of fifteen days old. About this time a duct, which runs in the longitudinal direction, and occupies a position on the outer side of the paraxial niesoblast, begins to develop on each side of the body. With the exception of the anterior portion of the cloaca and the proximal part of the allantois, this duct, which has received the name of Wolffian duct, is the earliest formed structure from which, or in connexion with which, any portion of the adult lu'ogenital system is derived.