931 THE TLEUEAL MEMBEANES. parallel and close to the left margin of the sternum behind the fourth intercostal space, the fifth costal cartilage and the fifth intercostal space, to the V)ack of the sixth costal cartilage. Here it turns outwards and downwards, and passes into the diaphragmatic reflection-line of the left side. From the back of the sternum the right pleura is reflected in the upper part of the chest on to the remains of the thymus, the right innominate vein and the vena cava, and below this directly on to the front of the pericardium. The left pleura is reflected Ifrom the back of the manubrium sterni on to the left innominate vein and the aortic arch, and below this directly on to the front of the pericardium. The diaphragm- atic line of reflection is that along which the pleura leaves the thoracic wall and is reflected on to the upper surface of the diaphragm. This reflection takes place along a curved line, which, except behind as it approaches the vertebral column, is placed a short dis- tance above the lower border of the thoracic wall. It difters some- what on the two sides of the body. On the left side the diaphragmatic line of reflection pro- ceeds downwards behind the ascending part of the sixth costal cartilage, crosses behind the anterior^, end of the sixth intercostal space and the de- scending part of the cartilage of the seventh rib (Fig. 630). Still continu- ing to descend, it passes behind the eighth costal arch at the j unction between its cartilaginous and bony portions. This is a fairly constant relation on both sides of the body, and it should be noted that a vertical line drawn downwards from the nipple (niammillaiy line) intei'sects the line of pleural reflection close to the point where it presents this relation to the eighth costal arch. Beyond this point the line of diaphragmatic reflection is carried downwards and outwards across the extremities of the bony portions of the ninth and tenth ribs. As it passes under cover of the tenth rib, or it may be as it proceeds across the tenth intercostal space, the line of pleural reflection reaches its lowest point, and it is important to observe that this point lies in the mid-lateral line {i.e. a vertical line drawn downwards on the side of the chest midway between spine and sternum). From this it ascends slightly as it curves backwards towards the spine. Thus Fig. 631.—Dissection of the Pleural Sacs from Behind. The blue lines iudicate the outlines and the fissures of the lungs.