FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE THIGH AND BUTTOCK. 337 Inguinal lyinpliatic glands ' Deep layer of superficial fascia Femoral lymphatic glands Genito-crural nerve Superficial layer of superficial fascia Internal saphenous vein layer of superficial fascia Superficial epigastric vessels Superficial layer of superficial fascia Su]ierior external pudic vessels Ilio-inguinal nerve ■matic cord In the buttock the superficial fascia is of considerable thickness, and usually loaded with fat, whereby it assists in forming the contour of the buttock and the fold of the nates. In the groin it is divisible into two layers: a superficial fatty layer, continuous with a similar layer on the front of the abdominal wall above, and over the perineum internally, and a deeper membranous layer, which is attached above to the inner half of Poupart's ligament, and to the deep fascia of the thigh just below the outer half of that ligament. Internally it is attached to the pubic arch, and below the level of Scarpa's triangle it blends inseparably with the superficial fatty layer. The separation of these two layers of the superficial fascia is occasioned by tbp -nrPSPTlPP be- Superficial layer of LUB pi«bt;in.t! ue superficial fascia tween them of the femoral and in- guinal lymphatic Superficial circumflex iliac vessels glands, the inter- nal saphenous vein and its tributaries, and some small arteries. The at- tachment of the deeper layer of the fascia to the pubic arch and Poupart's ligament cuts off the superficial tissues of the thigh from the perineum and the anterior abdominal wall, and prevents the passage down the thigh of fluid collected in the perineum or beneath the fascia of the anterior abdominal wall. The deep fascia or fascia lata forms a tubular investment for the muscles and vessels of the thigh and buttock. It is firmly attached above to the iliac crest, the great sacro-sciatic ligameat, the ischium, the pubic arch, the pubic symphysis and crest, and Poupart's ligament. Below, in relation to the knee, it is continuous with the deep fascia of the leg, gains attachment to the patella, the tuberosities of the tibia and the head of the fibula, and forms the lateral ligaments of the patella. On the front of the thigh the deep fascia is thick and strong. It is pierced by numerous openings for vessels and nerves, the most important of which is the saphenous opening for the internal saphenous vein. A femoral hernia passes through this opening to reach the anterior abdominal wall. It is an oval opening of variable size situated just below the inner half of Poupart's ligament, and immediately in front of the femoral vessels. It is covered by the superficial fascia, and by a special layer of fascia, the cribriform fascia, a thin perforated lamina, attached to the margins of the opening. The outer edge of the opening is formed by the margin of the iliac portion of the fascia lata which is attached above to the iliac crest and Poupart's ligament; the inner edge is formed by the margin of the ptcMc portion of the fascia lata, which is continued upwards behind the femoral sheath, over the adductor longus and pectineus muscles to the ilio pectineal line and the capsule of the hip-joint. These two layers of the fascia lata are continuous at the lower concave margin of the saphenous opening, forming its inferior cornu. As they pass upwards towards the pelvis they occupy different planes, the iliac portion being in front of the femoral sheath, the pubic portion of the fascia behind it. The superior cornu of the saphenous opening, placed 22 Fig. 248. -The Groin. Structures between the Layers of the Superficial Fascia.