THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 782 internal and external intercostal muscles. The branches terminate by anastomosing with anterior intercostal branches of the internal mammarj- artery. Each gives off' muscular branches to the intercostal muscles, a nutrient In'anch to the rib below which it lies, and"a collateral branch which runs along the lower border of the space and terminates by anastomosing with an anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary arterj'. THE AXILLARY ARTERY. The axillary artery (a. axillaris) lies in the axillary space. It is the direct continuation of the sul)clavian artery, and it becomes the brachial artery. The axillary artery commences at the outer border of the first rib, at the apex of tlie axillary space. It descends, with an outward inclination, along* the external Deltoid Cephalic veiiv Subclavius Brachial plexus Axillary —artery Acromio- ^^pTt- —thoracic artery Axillary vein Ulnar nerve Long thoracic artery Long subscapular nerve Dorsalis scapula artery Latissirnus dorsi Fit!. 561.—The AxiLr,.\Hv Artery and its Branches and Relations. wall of the space, i.e. to the inner side of the shoulder-joint and the humerus, to the lower border of the teres major, where it becomes the brachial artery. A line drawn from the middle of the clavicle to the inner border of fhe prominence of the coraco-braehiaUs and l)icei)S muscles, when the arm is abducted until it is at right angles with the side, indicates the position and direction of the artery. The position and direction, however, and to a certain extent th& relations also ' of the axillary artery, are modified by changes in the position of the upper extremity. With the arm hanging 1)}' the side the axillary artery describes a curve wdtli the concavity directed downwards and inwards, and the vein is to its inner side. When the arm is at right angles with the side, the axillary artery is almost straight, it lies closer to the outer wall of the axilla, and the vein overlaps it in front and on the inner side. When the arm is raised above the level of the