630 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. cutaneous nerves otherwise not necessarily concerned in the innervation of the limbs. Herring- ham has shown tliat—(A) Of tico spots on the skin, that nearer the 'preaxial border tends to be supplied by the hi(jher nerve. (B) Of two spots in the preaxial area, the lower tends to be supplied by the loiver nerve; and, of two spots in the postaxial area, the loicer tends to be supplied by the higher nerve. In other words, from the root of the lindj down the preaxial border to its distal extremity, and up the postaxial border to the root of the limb again, there is a definite numerical sequence of spinal nerves supplying skin areas through nerves of the limb-plexuses. A similar numerical sequence in the arrangement of the nerves is also found extending over the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the limbs from preaxial to postaxial l)order, excejit in certain situations. On the dorsal and ventral surfaces of both upper and lower limbs there is a hiatus, for a certain distance, in the numerical sequence of the spiiuil nerves in their cutaneous distribution, explicable on the ground that the central nerves of the jjlexus, which fail to reach the surface in these situations, are replaced by cutaneous branches from neighbouring nerves. This hiatus has been named the axial area or line. In the upper limb, the dorsal axial area or line extends from the middle line of the back, ojjposite the vertebra jirominens, to the insertion of the deltoid. Tlie rentral axial area or line extends anteriorly from the middle line of the trunk, at the manul)ri()-sternal joint, across the chest, down the front of the arm and forearm to the wrist. In the lower limb, the dorsal axial area or line may be traced from the luiddle line of the back over the posterior superior iliac spine, across the buttock and thigh, to the head of the fibula. A ventral axial area or line can also be traced from the root of the penis along the inner side of the thigh and knee, and down the back of the leg to the heel. These areas or lines represent the meeting-place and overlapping of nerves, which are not in numerical sequence ; and it is only at the peripheral parts of the limbs, on the dorsal and ventral surfaces, that the nerves appear in numerical sequence from the preaxial to the jjostaxial border. In the case of the upper limb the hiatus is caused, in both surfaces of the limb, by the absence of cutaneous branches of the seventh cervical nerve ; in the case of the lower limb the hiatus is due to the al)sence of liranches from the fifth hmibar nerve on both surfaces of the limb, and the absence of branches from the fourth lumbar nerve, in addition, on the dorsal surface. Understanding the significance of these dorsal and ventral axial areas or lines, and at the same time bearing in mind the overlapping which occurs in the cutaneous distribution of each sjnnal nerve, the areas of skin supplied through the limb-jilexuses can be mapped out with con- siderable precision, as indicated in the following tables :— A. Upper Limb. Cutaneous Distribution. Nerves. Preaxial border from neck to hand ' Dorsum ' Hand J (palm Digits Postaxial border from liaud to chest Su^iraclavicular nerves Circumflex . Musculo-sjjiral (upper external) Musculo-sjiiral (lower external) Musculo-cutaneous Radial Ulnar .... Musculo-cutaneous Median Ulnai- .... Median Ulnar Internal cutaneous Musculo-spiral (inter- nal) Le.s.ser internal cutane- ous Intercosto-hunieral Intercosto-humeral Third intercostal Fourth ,, Spinal Origin. C. 3. 4. Distribution. 5. 6. (5). 6. 6. 7. 5. 6. 6. 7. 8. 5. 6. 6. 7. 1. 6. 7. 8. T. 8. T. 1. 1. C. 8. T. 1. C. 8. T. 1. T. -2. T. 2. T. 3. T. 4. Chest, shoulder, deltoid, and scapular regions. Deltoid region, outer side of arm. Outer side and back of arm and forearm. Outer side and back of elbow and forearm. Outer side of forearm, in front and behind. Outer side \ dorsum of hand. Inner side J Ball of thumb. Outer side 1 i- i <■ i ^ T • 1 !■ oi palm of hand. Inner side J '■ Thumb, C. 6. 7. First finger, C. 6. 7. 8. Second „ C. 7. 8. T. 1. Third „ C. 8. T. 1. Folll'th „ ) rp I Fifth „ j^- ^■ Inner side of forearm, in front and behind. Inner side of arm. Axillarv folds.