290 THE AETICULATIONS OR JOINTS. patellae, is a powerful flattened band, attached superiorly to the apex and adjoining margins of the patella, and iuferiorly to the rough anterior tuberosity at the upper end of the shaft of the tibia. This ligament also serves as a tendon of insertion for the quadriceps extensor muscle, and a certain number of the fibres of the tendon may be observed to descend as a thin fibrous covering for the anterior surface of the Fig. 223.—Dissection of the Knee-Joint from the Front: Patella thrown down. patella. The deep surface of the tendon is separated from the front of the head of the tibia by a synovial bursa, and above this it rests upon the infrapatellar pad of fat, which is placed between the tendon and the synovial membrane of the joint. The posterior ligament (Fig. 224) is a compound structure of unequal strength, and those portions by which it establishes continuity with the lateral parts of the capsule are remarkably thin. It is attached superiorly to the popliteal surface of the femur, close to the intercondyloid notch, with lateral extensions to the non- articular areas immediately above the posterior articular margins of the two con- dyles, where it is closely associated with the origins of the gastrocnemius muscle. Interiorly it is attached to the rough non-articular posterior border of the head of the tibia, where, to its fibular side, it presents an opening of exit for the tendon of the popliteus muscle (Fig. 224). The tendon of insertion of the semi-membranosus muscle contributes an important expansion which augments the posterior ligament on its superficial aspect. This expansion—ligamentum posticum Winslowii—^passes obliquely upwards and outwards to lose itself in the general ligament, but it is most distinct in the region between the femoral condyles, where it may present upper and lower arcuate borders. A number of vessels and nerves perforate this ligament, and hence it presents a number of apertures. The internal lateral ligament (lig. collateral tibiale. Fig. 223) is a well-defined strong flat band which is applied to the inner side of the knee-joint, and is rather wider in the middle than at either end. It is frequently regarded as consisting of two portions—an anterior or long portion and a posterior or short one. The two parts arise close together from the non-articular inner surface of the inner condyle, immediately below the adductor tubercle. The short or posterior portion descends slightly backwards, to be attached to the postero-internal aspect of the inner part of