GENERAL EMBRYOLOGY. 54 their terminations into large irregular spaces (Fig. 37). The increase of the interglandular tissne is most marked in the intervals between the dilated portions of the glands and their apertures, and when all the changes are fully established it and therefore it contains none of the deep " unclianged layer" of the deeidua. Its central portion is formed by the stratum spongiosum folded upon itself, and its surfaces, external and internal, by the stratum eompactum ; glands open upon each surface. The changes which occur in tlie deeidua capsularis are due, first, to its connexion with and invasion by the chorionic villi; and, secondly, to the pressure exerted upon it by the enlarging ovum. The former intluenee is brought to bear whilst the deeidua is still increasing; the latter, after it has reached its full development. The changes which result from its union with the chorion are the destruction and disappearance of the epithelium on its inner surface and the destruction and absorption of some of the interglandular lissl^e; they are due to the activity of the chorionic ectoderm whicli attacks and invades the uterine tissues. The changes due to the pressure exerted by the enlarging ovum are diminution of vascularity, disappearance of the lumina of the non-dilated portions of the glands, removal of the epithelium from the spaces of the spongy layer, compression of the spaces into slits, wliich ultimately disappear, and the coincident atrophy of the fcctal villi, which have penetrated this portion of the deeidua. All tliese changes result in the reduction of the deeidua capsularis to a thin membrane in which no traces of the original structui'e ai'e recognisable, in the fusion of the altered deeidua capsularis wiUi the deeidua vera, and in tlie consecjuent obliteration of the uterine cavity. After the fifth niuutli the deeidua vera also undergoes atro])hic changes, but tliey do not proceed so far as in the deeidua capsidaris: nevertheless the stratum eompactum is greatly reduced, the superficial epithelimn and the superficial parts of the glands entirely disappear from it, the intei'glan(bdar tissue becomes less is possible to re- cognise three layers of decidual tissne —(1) A superficial, relatively thick layer, in which the interglandular tissue preponder- ates, tlie stratum eompactum; (2) A layer formed prin- cipally by the dil- ated portions of the glands, the stratum spongiosum; and (.■)) A thin deep portion of the membrane which contains the lower extremities of the glands, which are practically un- changed, tlie un- ehanged layer. Fig. 42.—DiACiRAM, showing lurthcr growth of the placental sinuses and villi ; the fusion of the ilecidiia capsularis with the deeidua vera, and the obliteration of the uterine cavity. The deeidua eap- sularis difiers from the other portions of the deeidua in that it is only a fold of the two superficial layers,