VISCEEAL BRANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AOETA. 797 ing lumbo-sacral articulation by becoming the internal iliac artery; at the same time it gives off the external iliac artery to the lower extremity. The direction of each common iliac is well indicated by a line drawn from the bifurcation of the aorta to a point midway between the symphysis pubes and the anterior superior spine of the ihum. The angle included between the two diverging trunks is about 60° in the male and about 68° in the female. The right artery is, for obvious reasons, a httle longer than the left; the former is about two inches, and the latter one and three-quarter inches in length. Relations.—Anterior.—Both arteries are covered by peritoneum, and are separated by it from coils of the small intestine. Communicating branches between the aortic and hypogastric plexuses of tlie sympathetic pass in front of the arteries, each of which is also crossed near its termination by the corresponding ureter. The left artery is in addition crossed in front by the superior hfemorrhoidal vessels. Posterior.—Behind the artery of each side are the bodies of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrte, with the intervertebral disc above and below the latter, the psoas muscle, and the sympathetic cord. These relationships, however, are much closer on the left side than on the right. Tlie right common iliac, except at its lower end, where it is in contact with the psoas, is separated from the structures named by the terminations of the right and left common iliac veins and the commencement of the inferior vena cava. The left ■ common iliac, which is not so separated, lies on the inner border of the psoas. Somewhat deeply placed in the areolar tissue between the psoas and the lumbar vertebra, the obturator nerve, the lumbo-sacral cord, and the ilio-lunibar artery form posterior relations to the artery on both sides. Lateral.— On both sides of each arteiy ai'e coils of small intestine. The commence- ment of the inferior vena cava lies to the outer side of the upper part of the right artery, and on the inner side of this vessel are the right common iliac vein below and the left common iliac vein above. The last-named vein lies on the inner side of the left artery. The Paired Visceral Branches of the Abdominal Aorta. 1. Suprarenal or Capsular Arteries (aa. suprarenales, Fig. 566).—There are three sets of suprarenal arteries—the superior, middle, and inferior. Of these the middle only arise from the aorta direct; the superior spring from the inferior phrenic, and the inferior from the renal arteries. The middle suprarenal arteries are two small branches which arise, behind the pancreas, from the sides of the aorta, close to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. They run, one on each side, outwards and upwards upon the crura of the diaphragm, and just above the renal arteries, to the suprarenal bodies to which they are distributed, and they anastomose with the superior and inferior suprarenal arteries. 2. Renal Arteries (aa. renales. Fig. 566).—-The renal arteries arise, one on each side, from the aorta, about half-an-inch below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery and opposite the first lumbar vertebra. Both arteries are of large size, and the right, which is a httle longer than the left, is frequently shghtly lower in position. Each artery runs almost transversely outwards to the hilus of the corresponding kidney. It passes in front of the crus of the diaphragm and of the upper part of the psoas muscle. The left artery lies behind the pancreas; the right vessel passes behind the inferior vena cava, the head of the pancreas, and the second part of the duodenum. The renal vein usually hes below and in front of the artery, but near the kidney the vein not un- frequently occupies a posterior position. On reaching the hilus of the kidney each artery divides into three branches, two of which pass in front of the pelvis of the ureter, and between it and the renal vein, and the third behind the pelvis. In the renal sinus these primary branches break up into numerous secondary branches which enter the kidney substance between the pyramids. Branches.—The following branches are given off by each renal artery, in addition to the terminal brandies:—