OSTEOLOGY. 188 huineruH articulates with the great sigmoid cavity of the ulna. On the anterior surface of the bone, immediately above the trochlea, is a depression—the coronoid fossa (fossa coronoidea), in which the coronoid process of the ulna rests in tiexion of the joint, whilst in a corresponding position on the back of the lower end of the shaft there is a hollow, called the olecranon fossa (fossa olecrani), just above the trochlea posteriorly. Into this the olecranon process sinks when the elbow is extended. The two fossa; are separated by a thin translucent layer of bone which may be deficient, thus leading to the formation of a foramen between the two hollows in the macerated bone. The anterior part of the capsule of the elbow joint is attached to the superior margins of the radial and coronoid fosste in front, whilst the posterior ligament is connected with the upper border and lateral edges of the olecranon fossa behind. The strong internal and external lateral ligaments are attached superiorly to the internal and external epicondyles respec- tively. The proportionate length of the humerus to the body height is as 1 is to 4-93-5-25. Nutrient foramina are usually to he seen, one at or near tlie surface for the insertion of the coraco-hracliialis, tlie other usually close to tlie hinder horder of tlie deltoid eniinenee ; l)oth have a downward direction. Numerous vascular foramina are scattered along the line of the anatomical neck, tin- lai'j^er ones being situated near the.upper end of tlie bicipital groove. Connexions.—The humerus articulates with tlic scapula above, and radius and ulna lielow. Enilx'dded as the humerus is in the substance of the upper arm, its shaft and head are surrounded on all sides. It is only at its lower part that it comes into direct relation with tlie surface, the internal epicondyle forming a characteristic projection on the inner side of the ell)ow ; whilst the external epicondyle, less prominent, and the external epicondylic ridge can liest be recognised when tlie elbow is bent. Architecture.—The shaft consists of a layer of compact bone surrounding a long medullary canal. The outer shell, thickest in the lower third of the bone, gradually thins until it reaches the sujicrior e])i]>hysial line, where it forms a layer no thicker than stout paper. Inferiorly the external shtdl is thicker and stouter than above, until it reaches the epicondyles, below which tile articular surfaces are formed of a layer of compact spongy bone. The upper end of the medullary canal is surrounded l)y loose sjiongy tissue, the filires of which arch inwards from the inner surface of the compact outer layer, ^\•^lilst inferiorly tlie cancellous tissue wliich springs fr(.)ni the outer shell sweeps downwards in a radiating fashion on either side of the olecranon fossa towards the epicondyles. Above tlie olecranon fossa there are a number of lamina; of dense 'bone which arch across from one side to the other, the con- vexity of the arches being directed downwards. The superior epijiliysis, formed of spongy bone, is united to the shaft by a wavy line, concave externally and convex internally, leading from the l)ase of the great tnlierosity on the outer side to the inferior articular^edge on the inner side. The mass above this includes the head and two tuberosities. The sjiongy tissue of the head is line, and is arranged generally in lines radial to its surface ; that of the great tuberosity is more open, and often displays large .spaces towards its interior, which in old l)ones communi- cate freely with tlie medullary cavity of the shaft. The general direction of the filiires is parallel to the outer surface of tlie tuberosity. The lower articular end is formed of fine spongy tissue, more compact towards the surface, and arranged in lines more or less at right angles to its articular planes. In the adult the principal nutrient canal, viz. that which opens on the surface near the insertion of the coraco-bracliialis, traverses the outer compact wall of the shaft oblicpiely downwards for a distance of two and a quarter inches before it opens into tlie medullai'y cavity. Variations.—As has been already stated, the olecranon and coronoid foss;e may communicate with each other in the macerated bone. The resulting supratrochlear foramen is more commonly met with in the flower races of man, as well as in the anthropoid apes, and in some other mammals. The occurrence of a hook-like sjiine, called the eiiicondylic jn-ocess, which projects in front of the internal epicondylic ridge, is not uncommon. Its extremity is connected with the internal epicondyle by means of a fibrous band, underneath which the median nerve, accompanied by the lirachial artery, or one of its large branches, may jiass, or in some instances, the nerve alone, or the artery unaccompanied by tlie nerve. This process is tlie homo- logue in a rudimentary form of a canal present in many animals, notably in the carnivora and marsupials. In addition to the liroad iiiusculo-spiral groove already described, and which is no doubt jH'oduced by the twisting or torsion of the shaft, there is occasionally a distinct narrow groove posterior to it, Mdiicli marks jirecisely the course of the niusculo-spiral nerve as it turns round the outer side of the sliaft of the lione. Ossification.—At birth tlie shaft of the humerus is usually the only part of the bone ossified, if we. except the occasional presence (22 per cent) of an ossific centre in the head. (H. R. Spencer, Journ. Anat. and Physiol, vol. xxv. p. 552.) The centre for the sliaft makes its appearance early in the second month of intrauterine life. AVithin the hrst six months after birth a centre usually appears for the head ; this is succeeded by one for the great tuberosity during the second or third year. Tliese soon coalesce ; and