THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 1199 articulation with the sternum forms essentially a weak joint which is liahle to be dislocated, especially from blows upon the outer part of the shoulder which drive the inner end of the clavicle forwards against the weak anterior sterno-clavicular ligament. The shaft of the ciavicle, subcutaneous throughout, is weakest at the junction of its two curves; it is in this region that the bone is so frequently fractured as the result of force transmitted through it to the trunk. The dis- placement of the outer fragment varies according to whether the break takes place internal or external to the coraco-clavicular ligament; in the former case the weight of the upper extremity, acting through tlie coraco-clavicular ligament, pulls the outer fragment downwards ; when the fracture is external to the ligament, the outer end of the clavicle rotates forwards, but there is no downward displacement. The outer end of the clavicle is on a plane posterior to its inner end, so that the shoulder is braced backwards away from the thorax ; hence in fractures of the clavicle, both inside and outside the coraco-clavicular ligament, the point of the shoulder rotates forwards and inwards. The acromio-clavicular articulation is somewhat difficult to feel; the groove which corresponds to it runs in the sagittal direction, and lies 1^ in. internal to the outer border of the acromion, and immediately external to a slight prominence upon the outer extremity of the clavicle. When this joint is dislocated the clavicle almost in^'ariably overrides the acromion, and the summit of the shoulder presents a somewhat conical or " sugai'-loaf " appearance. The tip of the acromion looks directly forwards, and lies a finger's lireadth external to and a little in front of the outer extremity of the clavicle. The outer border of the acromion can readily be followed to its junction with the spine of the scapula, and the latter to its root, which is situated on a level with the third dorsal spine. The inner border of the acromion and the posterior border of the outer end of the clavicle meet at an angle into which the point of the finger can be pressed. The upper angle of the scapula, covered l)y the trapezius and the supraspinatus muscles, is too deeply placed to be palpated distinctly. The inferior angle, and the internal border, from the root of the spine downwards, form visible prominences which are readily felt; the former overlies the seventh intercostal space on a level with the seventh dorsal spine, while the latter lies a little internal to the angles of the ribs. To elicit crepitus in a transverse fracture of the scapula below the spine, the surgeon stands behind the patient and grasps the upper fragment by placing the forefinger upon the coracoid and the thumb upon the spine, while with the other hand lie grasps the inferior angle ; the two fragments arc then moved the one upon the other. Tlie tip of the coracoid process may be felt by pressing the finger firmly upon the anterior border of the deltoid at a point 1 in. below the junction of the middle and outer thirds of the clavicle. Internal to the coracoid is a triangular depres- sion which corresponds to the upper end of the interval between the clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles. Behind this triangular depres- sion are the termination of the cephalic vein, a lymY)hatic gland, the first part of , the axillary vessels, and the cords of the brachial plexus. By firm pressure in this situation the pulsation of the axillary artery can be felt, and Ijy further pressure the circulation in the vessel can be arrested by compressing the artery against the second rib. The first fart of the axillary artery may be cut down upon either by a transverse incision through the clavicular origin of the pectoralis major, or by a longitudinal incision in the interval between this muscular slip and the deltoid. The companion vein lies in front of, as well as to the thoracic side of the artery, thus adding to the difficulty of exposing the vessel. In fractures of the middle third of the clavicle the su].)elavian vessels are protected by the soft pad formed )jy the subclavius muscle. The upper end of the humerus covered by the deltoid gives rotundity to the shoulder. The greater tuberosity projects beyond the acromion, and constitutes the most external bony landmark of the shoulder. When the head of the bone is dis- located, the outer border of the acromion then liecomes the most external Ijony landmark, and the shoulder presents a square contour. The lesser tuberosity, small but conical, can be felt through the deltoid. Pointing directly forwards, it lies