BONES OF THE FACE. 127 At birth the ossified lateral masses arc united to the central cartilaginous plate by a fibrous layer. Two centres make their appearance in the mesial cartilage on either side of the root of the crista galli about the end of the first year; from these, the crista galli and the vertical plate are ossified as well as the mesial part of the cribriform plate, the lateral portions of which are derived from an inward extension of the lateral mass. Ossification is usually complete about the fifth or sixth year. About the twenty-fifth year bony luiion has taken place between the cribriform plate and the sphenoid, but ankylosis between the vertical plate and the vomer is not usual till the fortieth or forty- fifth year. Wormian Bones. Along the line of the cranial sutures and in the region of the fontanelles, isolated bones of irregular form and var'iable size are occasionally met with. These are the so-called Wormian bones, named after the Danish anatomist Wormius. They are also called sutural or epactal bones. Their presence depends on the fact that they are either developed from distinct ossific nuclei, or it may be from a division of the primary ossific deposit. They usually include the whole thickness of the cranial wall, or it may be only involve the outer or inner tables of the cranial bones. They are most frequent in the region of the lambda and the lambdoid suture. They occur commonly about the pterion, and in this situation are called epipteric bones (Flower). By their fusion with one or other of the adjacent bones they here lead to the occurrence of a fronto-squamosal suture. Their presence has also been noted along the line of the sagittal suture, and sometimes in metopic skulls in the inter-frontal suture. They are occasionally met with at the asterion and more rarely at the obelion. They appear less frequently in the face, but their presence has been noted around the lachrymal bone, and also at the extremity of the spheno-inaxillary fissure, where they may form an independent nodule wedged in between the great wing of the sphenoid, the malar, and the superior maxillary bones. BONES OF THE FACE. The bones of the face (ossa faciei), fourteen in number, comprise two superior maxillte, two palates, two malars, two lachrymals, and two nasals, together with the vomer and inferior maxilla. The Superior Maxillary Bones. The superior maxillae (maxilhe), of which there are two, unite to form the upper jaw. Each consists of a body, with which are connected four projections, named respectively the zygomatic, frontal, alveolar, and palatal processes. The body (corpus) is of pyramidal form, and contains within it a hollow called the antrum or maxillary air sinus. It has four surfaces—an antero-external or facial, a postero-external or zygomatic, a supero-external or orbital, and an internal or nasal. The antero-external or facial surface (facies anterior) is confluent below with the alveolar process. Above, it is separated from the orbital aspect by the infraorbital margin (margo infraorbitalis), whilst internally it is limited by the free margin of the nasal notch, which ends below in the pointed anterior nasal spine (spina nasalis anterior). Posteriorly it is separated from the zygomatic surface by the inferior border of the zygomatic process. The facial aspect of the bone is ridged by the sockets of the teeth (juga alveolaria). The ridge corresponding to the root of the canine tooth is usually the most pronoimced; and internal to this, and over- lying the roots of the incisor teeth, is the shallow incisive or myrtiform fossa, whilst placed externally, on a higher level, is the deeper canine fossa, the floor of which is formed in part by the projecting zygomatic process. Above this, and near the infraorbital margin, is the infraorbital foramen, the external opening of the infraorbital canal, which transmits the infraorbital nerve and artery. The postero- external or zygomatic surface is separated above from the orbital aspect by a rounded free edge, which forms the anterior margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure in the articulated skull. Inferiorly, and in front, it is separated from the facial surface by the zygomatic process and its free lower border. Internally it is limited by a sharp irregular margin with which the palate bone articulates. This surface