186 OSTEOLOGY. Anatomical, NECK Iiifiaspinatus (jREAT TUBEROSITY Teres iniiior Triceps (outer lieiul> Triceps (inner liead)^ .SCRGICAL NECK — Deltoid -Deltoid eminence posterior limb of the V winds ol)liquely round the outer side of the bone towards the posterior surface, where it becomes continuous with a slightly elevated and occasionally rough ridge which leads up the back of the bone towards the great tuberosity superiorly; from this latter ridge the outer head of the triceps muscle arises. The inner surface of the shaft about its middle inclines to form a rounded border, on which there is often a rough linear impression, which marks the insertion of the coraco-bracliialis muscle. Below' this the shaft becomes compressed and expanded laterally, ending inferiorly on either side in the condyles. Its surfaces are now anteriorand posterior,being separated from each other by two clearly de- fined borders, the epicondylic ridges. Of these, the internal, margo medialis, is the more curved and less pj'ominent, and is continuous above with the surface to which the coraco- brachialis is attached, whilst in- feriorly it ends by blending with the internal condyle. The external epicondylic ridge, margo lateralis, is straighter and more projecting; its edge is usually distinctly lipped. Confluent with the external condyle inferiorly, it may be traced upwards to near the deltoid eminence, where it turns backwards more or less parallel to the posterior oblique border of that impression, to be lost on the posterior surface of the shaft. The interval between this border and the deltoid eminence is thus converted into a shallow oblique furrow, which winds round the outer surface of the bone just below its middle ; this constitutes the musculo- spiral groove' (sulcus radialis) along which the musculo-spiral nerve, to- gether with the superior profunda artery, passes from the back to reach tlie front of the arm. To the epi- condylic ridges are attached the intermuscular septa, whilst the ex- ternal in its upper two - thirds furnishes a surface for the origin of the brachio-radialis (supinator- longus), and in its lower third for the extensor carpi radialis longior muscle. The anterior surface of the lower triauguliir form, the base corresponding to the down the centre of this is a broad, Bracliialis aiiticus -Spiral (Sroove Olecraniin FOSSA Tendon of pxor muscles IXI'ERNAL EelCONUVI.E Groove for ulnar nerve External Li'ICONDYLE Trochlea Fig. 129.—Posterior View ok the Right Humerus, half of the shaft is of elongated inferior extremity of the bone. Runniu