PKIMITIVE VASCULAE SYSTEM AND FffiTAL CIRCULATION. 59 some doubt about their ultimate fate, but it is generally believed that their nuclei disappear, and that they are converted into non-nucleated corpuscles. Directly after tlie appearance of the blood islands in the vascular area of the yolk-sac, and just as the folding off of the embryo commences, two short tubular vessels appear in tlie splanchnic layer of the pericardial mesoderm. These vessels at once extend forwards and outwards into the extra-embryonic region where they become connected with the vessels of the vascular area ; they also extend backwards in the body of the embryo beneath tlie protovertebral somites. In the majority of mammals they at first terminate behind, as in front, on the wall of the yolk-sac, but after a time the main stems" appear to be continued along the allantoic stalk to the placenta, and to give off branches to the yolk-sac. It is probable that in the human embryo also, though this has not apparently been actually oliserved, these main stem vessels, the primitive aort;ie, end at first on the wall of tlie yolk-sac, but on the fourteenth day of intra-uterine life, before the lieart is formed, the two primitive stem-vessels pass backwards along the body-stalk to the chorion, their terminal branches entering the chorionic villi. As they pass backwards the primitive aoi'tre give off branches to the wall of the yolk-sac. Thus, at this period the vascular system of the human embryo consists of two longitudinal vessels which run parallel with each other, one on each side of the middle line, tliroughout the whole length of the embryo. They communicate anteriorly with the vessels on the yolk-sac, and terminate posteriorly in the chorion. When the circulation commences the blood fiows from the anterior part of the vascular area into the anterior ends of the primitive aortse, and passes backwards through the embryo. Some of it is returned to the vascular area by the l^ranches which are given off to the walls of the yolk-sac; l)ut the greater part is carried to the chorion, whence it returns by venous channels, the allantoic \'eins, which have been developed in the mean- time, to the anterior ends of tlie primitive aortpe. As the cephalic and caudal folds are developed the anterior and posterior parts of the primitive aortse are carried into the ventral wall of the body of the embryo, and thus each primitive vessel is divisible into three parts: (1) a dorsal part, the primitive dorsal aorta, which extends from the dorsal end of the mandibular arch to the cloaca, and runs beneath the protovertebral somites; (2) an anterior ventral part, situated in the dorsal wall of the pericardium and extending from the umbilicus to the ventral end of the mandibular arch; and (3) a posterior ventral part, which at first runs in the ventral wall at the side of the cloaca, and then turns backwards in the body-stalk to the placenta, but afterwards, when the posterior part of the ventral wall of the body is completed, it extends forwards from the pelvic region to the umbilical orifice, through which it passes to the umbilical cord. The three sections are united together by two arches—an anterior arch, the first cephalic aortic arch, which passes through the mandibular arch, and a posterior arch, the caudal arch, which lies at the side of the cloaca. In a short time four additional communications are formed between the anterior ventral and the dorsal part of each primitive aorta; they are the second, third, fourth and fifth cephalic aortic arches, each of which lies in the substance of the corresponding visceral arch. As soon as the last cephalic aortic arch is developed the rudiments of the main vessels of the embryo are established; and by a series of transformations, for a full account of which the chapter which deals with the Vascular System must be consulted, there are formed from the vessels which have been mentioned the heart, Posterior ventral aorta I'riiiiith'e caudal arch Hypogastric artery Chorionic vessels Fig. 45.—The Pkimitive Blood-Vessels OF THE Embryo.