643 THE FIFTH, TPtlGEMINAL OE TEIFACIAL NEEVE. of two roots which embrace the middle meningeal artery. The nerve passes back- wards beneath the external pterygoid muscle and between the internal lateral liga- ment and the neck of the lower jaw. Entering the substance of the parotid gland, it is directed upwards to the temple over the zygoma in company with the temporal artery. It is finally distributed as a cutaneous nerve of the temple and scalp, and reaches almost to the vertex of the skull. The auriculo-temporal nerve gives off the following branches:—(1) A small branch to the temporo-maxillary articulation. (2) Branches to the parotid gland. (3) A twig for the supply of the skin of the external auditory meatus (and mem- brana tympani). (4) Branches to the upper half of the pinna on its outer aspect. (5) Terminal branches to the skin of the temple and scalp. It has the following communications with other nerves :—(1) Important communica- tions are effected by the roots of the nerve, which are separately joined by small branches from the otic ganglion. (2) The parotid branches of the nerve are connected with branches of the facial nerve in the substance of the gland. (3) The temporal branch of the nerve is in communication superficially with the temporal branches of the facial nerve. The lingual nerve (n. lingualis) is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the posterior division of the inferior maxillary nerve. It proceeds downwards in front of the inferior dental nerve, beneath the external pterygoid muscle, to its lower border. After passing between the internal pterygoid muscle, and the ramus of the lower jaw, it crosses beneath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth in the interval between the mylohyoid and hyoglossus muscles and beneath the duct of the submaxillary gland. It sweeps forwards and inwards to the side of the tongue, to the mucous membrane over the anterior two-thirds of which it is distributed. Two nerves communicate with the lingual nerve in its course to the tongue:— (1) The chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve joins it beneath the external pterygoid muscle, and is incorporated with it in its distribution-to the tongue. (2) The hypoglossal nerve forms larger or smaller loops of communication with the lingual nerve as they course forwards together over the hyoglossus muscle. Besides supplying the aforesaid branches to the mucous membrane over the sides and dorsum of the tongue in its anterior two-thirds, the lingual nerve supplies the mucous membrane of the outer wall and floor of the mouth. It also assists, along with the chorda tympani nerve, in forming the roots of the submaxillary ganglion. The submaxillary ganglion (ganglion submaxillare) is a minute reddish ganglion placed on the hyoglossus muscle, between the lingual nerve and the duct of the submaxillary gland. It is suspended from the former by two trunks, consisting for the most part of fibres of the lingual and chorda tympani nerves which at this point become separated from the lingual nerve and incorporated with the ganglion. The roots of the ganglion are—(1) an afferent root, derived from the Ungual nerve ; (2) an efferent root, derived from the chorda tympani; and (3) a sympathetic root, from the sympathetic plexus upon the facial artery. The branches from the ganglion are distributed to the submaxillary gland and Wharton's duct, and by fil)res which become reunited with the trunk of the lingual nerve, to the sublingual gland. The inferior dental nerve (n. alveolaris inferior) is larger than the Hngual nerve. It passes from''beneath the lower border of the external pterygoid muscle to reach the interval between the ramus and internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. Entering the inferior dental canal through the inferior dental foramen, it traverses the substance of the ramus and body of the lower jaw, distributing branches in its course to the teeth. A fine plexus is formed by the dental branches before they finally supply the teeth. Branches and Communications.—(1) The mylohyoid nerve is a small branch arising just before the inferior dental nerve passes through the inferior dental foramen. Grooving the ramus of the jaw in its course, it descends into the submaxillary triangle on the superficial aspect of the mylohyoid mi;scle. Concealed in this situation l^y the submaxillary gland and the facial artery, it is distributed 41a