878 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. apex of the bulbus arteriosus. After the completion of the cephalic aortic arches the portions of the anterior ventral aorta which lie between their lower extremities are known as the ventral roots of the cephalic aortic arches. The primitive doi'sal aorta may be conveniently divided into two parts. The anterior part extends from the dorsal end of the first cephalic aortic arch to the root of the fore- limb. It remains separate from its fellow of the opposite side, and forms the dorsal roots of the cephalic aortic arches. It takes part in the formation of the great vessels of the head and neck and, on the left side, of, part of the aorta of the adult. The remaining portion extends from the root of the fore-limb to the pelvic region; it passes inwards, and unites with its fellow of the opposite side beneath the vertebral column to foi'm the greater part of the permanent systemic aorta. The primary caudal arch connects the primitive dorsal with the posterior ventral aorta. As it passes ventrally it lies on the inner side of the Wolffian duct. After a time it is replaced by a secondary caudal arch which lies at the outer side of the Wolffian duct, and this subsequently becomes the common and internal iliac arteries and the root of the hypogastric artery, the external iliac being merely an offset from it to the hind-limb. The greater part of the primitive posterior ventral aorta disappears early, and its secondary continuation to the placenta becomes the remainder of the hypogastric artery, which passes from the internal iliac arteiy, by the side of the bladder and along the ventral wall of the abdomen, to the umbilicus, whence it is continued along the umbilical cord to the placenta. Having considered thus briefly the main parts of the primitive aortic vessels, and having noted, shortly, the fate of each portion in the subsequent phases of development, we may now turn to a more detailed consideration of the metamorphoses which occur in those parts of primitive vessels, viz. the anterior ventral aortfe, the cephalic aortic arches, and the anterior parts of the primitive dorsal aortse, where the transformations are most striking and most complicated, and which result in the formation of the heart, the aorta in part, the pulmonary artery and its primary branches, the chief artei'ial trunks of the head and neck, and the first part of the main artery of the right upper extremity. Fig. 600.—Development of the Heart. Dia,gram showing the changes of form and external appearances at different stages. Modified from His's models. III.B and IV.B are side views ; the other figures represent the heart as seen from the front. A, Auricle ; A.B, Aortic bulb ; A.C, Auricular canal ; A.P, Auricular appendix ; L.V, Left ventricle ; O.A.C, Opening of auricular canal; P.V.A, Primi- tive ventral aorta ; R.V, Right ventricle ; S.V, Sinus veuosus ; V, Ventricle ; V.V, Vitelline vein. inwards, their inner walls come in contact single median tube is formed. This is the Development of the Heart, of the first part of the aorta, and of THE Pulmonary Artery. Of the three parts into which each anterior ventral aorta is divisible the middle is situated in the splanchnic mesoderm of the dorsal wall of the pericardium. As development proceeds the middle parts of both anterior ventral aortse enlarge and project into the cavity of the peri- cardium, whilst at the same time they grow , fuse together, and disappear, and so a simple primitive heart, which is completed in front