THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 896 Of the tv.-o margins .s]oi)ing away Ironi the apex of the ci-owii, the lateral is the longer in both teeth. After it has been a little worn the lower canine is le.s.s distinctly pointed than the upper ; Cpiitial incisor Canine 2nrl ]jremolar I Tja^pial incisdp 1st prpinolar | 2ik1 molar 1st molar 3rcl molar Iiaterai inoi Central incisor 1st premolar 1st molar 3nl molar OiUiinc 2n*l premolai' 2n<l niolai Fro. 6.51.—Thk Prhmanent Teeth of the Ri(iHT Side, Innek ok Lingual Aspect. The upper row shows the upper teeth, the lower row the lower teeth. The oingulum is distinct on tlie upper incisors and botli canines, the lingual cusp on the njiper lateral incisor and the upper canine. its root is also more flat tened. On the labial surface of the crown, of both canines and premolar.s, a wide low vertical ridge (labial ridge) can generally be made out (Fig. 6.50); it is most dis- tinct on the canine and tirst tipper preniolai-. Premolar or Bicuspid Teeth (deutes premolares, Figs. 650 ami 651).—Eight iu nmnber, two in each jaw above and lielow, the prem(;lar teeth are placed beliintl the canines, and in front of the molars as indi- cated by the term "premolar." Tlie crown, which, unlike that 'of the incisors and canines, is flattened from before ))ackwards (proximo-distally), is characterised l)}^ the presence (jf tw(j cusps (Fig. 652), hence the term l)icuspid often applied to these teeth. One of the cusps, the larger, is placed on the outer or labial, the other <m the inner or lingual side. The labial and lingual surfaces are l)oth convex. The root is single, but it is, as a rule, Hattened from before backwards (proximo- distally) and grooved, showing in this a tendency to division, which often actually takes place in the first upper premolar. The upper premolars are easily distin- guished by the fact that their two cusps are large and are separated from one The cusps of the premolars and molars of the right another by a distinct autcro-posterior side (left of picture) are particnlarly well .shovvn. jisSUYQ (Fig. 652): whilst in the lower The ndge from tlie inner anterior (pro.xiino- i j_i j_i i i i.i lingual) to the outer po.sterior (labio-distai) cusp premolars, ou the Other hand, the separa,- is also distinct in the tirst and second molars. tioU l)etween the twO CUSpS is UOt effected The second molars show four cusps, one of ^ continuous fissure as in the upper them small, although three only are frequently , ,, ^ , ^ , t i tt t • found. J ^ J teeth, Intt by two dimple-like depressions separated liy a ridge, which joins the two cusps (Fig. 653). In the upper premolars, therefore, the two cusps are separated by a fissure, in tlie lower they are united by a ridge. The first upper premolar is often slightly larger than the second ; the reverse is the case in the lower jaw. The outer or labial .surface of the crown is usually somewhat larger than the Fk;. 652.- -The UiM'EK Permanent Teeth, viewed from below.