1142 UKuaENlTAL SYSTEM. of transversely-arranged canals or tubules, each of which opens at its inner end into the Wolffian duct, while its outer extremity ends blindly. These transverse tubules, like the canal into which they open, are at first solid cellular structures, and only later acquire a distinct lumen. Increasing rapidly in size and number, the tubules become twisted and tortuous, and the free outer end of each dilates to form a capsule invaginated upon itself and containing a bunch of capillary blood-vessels similar to the glo- meruli of the adult kidney. The number of transverse tubules does not correspond to the number of somites, but several tubules are present for each somite in which a portion of the Wolffian body occurs. The Wolffian body is developed throughout the greater part of the length of the embryo, and reaches from the fifth somite in front to the fifth lumbar somite behind. 'I'hc anterior part, which possibly represents the " pro- nephros " of lower vertebrates, very rapidly atrophies. When at its greatest development (about the eighth week) the mesonephros forms a relatively large glandular mass projecting into the dorsal part of the body cavity, and extending from the region of the liver to the caudal end of the body cavity. In the lower vertebrates the tubules of the Wolffian body open into the body cavity by wide ciliated mouths, and in these animals the tubules are developed as out- growths of the peritoneal membrane. In anamniate vertebrates the mesonephros persists as the secretory organ of the adult. As the permanent kidney is developed the meso- nephros atrophies ; a portion of it, however, is retained ill the male, and forms the excretory apparatus of the testis. The Wolffian duct becomes the canal of the epididymis and the vas deferens of the adult (see p. 114.5). In the female^ when the permanent kidney is formed, the mesonephros and its duct tmdergo atrophy to a greater extent than in the male, and are only represented in the adult by rudimentary struc- ttires (see p. 114.5). Ureter and Permanent Kidney.—The kidney and ureter arise as a tubular divertictiliun from the Wolffian duct close to the point where the latter joins the cloaca. This diverticulum is seen first during the fourth week, and grows from behind forwards, dorsal to the body cavity. Even in its very early condition the portion of the outgrowth which lies nearest to the Wolffian duct, and from which the adult ureter is developed, is more slender than the distal part, which becomes branched, and grows out to form the pelvis and calyces of the ureter. The tn-iniferous tubules of the kidney arise as branching tubular outgrowths from the calyces into the surround- ing mesoblast. The blind distal end of each tubule soon dilates to form a capsule which, becoming in- vaginated on itself, encloses a tuft of capillary blood- vessels. The jNIalpighian corpuscles arising in this manner are found in the human kidney as early as the eighth week. According to some embryologists it is only the collecting tubules that are formed in this manner, and the other tvibules of the kidney have a mesoblastic origin independent of the outgrowth which gives origin to the ureter and its pelvis. These authorities state that the kidney tubules arise in the mesoblast, and only later acquire a connexion with the outgrowths from the ureter. Recent observation, however, does not support these statements. The kidney is at first a distinctly lobulated body, and shows at birth, and sometimes Fic. 781.—Diagram to illusthate the Manxeu in which the Ureteu, the Vas Deferens, and the Bladder arise in the Embryo. The structures developed from the cloaca lire indicated in blue, those from the Wolffian duet in red, and the ectoderm in black. The manner in which the rectum ami bladder become separated and acquire openings into the ectodermal cloacal fossa is shown in II. and III. (A. H. Young and A. Robinson). A. B. C. CM. K. Allantois. Bladder. Cloaca. Ectoderm of cloacal fiissa. Pelvis of kidney. R. Ur. U. VD. vs. Rectum. Urogenital canal. Ureter. Vas deferens. Seminal vesicle. WU. Wolffian duct.