515 INSULAE OPERCITLA. The frontal operculum is the small triangular piece of cerebral substance which intervenes between the ascending and anterior horizontal limbs of the Sylvian fissure. It covers over a small part of the anterior portion of the insula, and is sometimes termed the pars triangularis. The orbital operculum is, for the most part, on the under surface of the hemi- sphere. It lies below and to the inner side of the anterior horizontal limb of the Sylvian fissure, and proceeds backwards from the orbital aspect of the frontal lobe over the forepart of the insula.. Development of the Sylvian Fissure and of the Insular District of the Cerebral Hemi- sphere.—It is onlj^ during the latter half of the intrauterine period of development that the opercula take shape and grow over the insula, so as to shut it out from the surface. In its early- condition the insula presents the form of a depressed area on the side of the cerebral hemisphere, surrounded by a dis- tinct boundary wall formed by the sur- rounding more elevated surface of the hemi- sphere. After a time this depressed area, which is called the Sylvian fossa, assumes a triangular outline, and then the bounding wall is observed to be composed of three dis- tinct parts, viz. : an upper or fronto- parietal, a lower or temporal, and an an- terior or orbital part. The rounded angle, formed hy the meeting of tlie upper and an- terior portions of the boundary, now becomes flattened, and a short oblique part of the limiting wall, termed the frontal portion, assumes shape in this position. Each of these four portions of the bounding wall of the Sylvian fossa becomes a line of growth, from which an operculum takes origin, and by the approximation of these opercula, as they grow over the surface of the Sylvian fossa, the insula becomes closed in and the limbs of the Sylvian fissure are formed. The temporal and fronto-parietal opercula make their appearance somewhere about the end of the fifth month of foetal development, long before the other two opercula show any indication of growth. The temporal operculum grows more rapidly than the fronto-parietal; so that, when Fig. 38'2.—Thrke Stages in the Development of the Insula and the Insular Opercula. Right cerebral hemisphere from a foetus in the latter part of the fourth month of development ; B, Right cerebral hemisphere from a foetus in the fifth month of development ; C, Right cerebral hemisphere from a foetus in the latter part of the eighth month of development. C the temporal operculum has been removed, and thus a large part of the insula is exposed. F.P, Fronto-parietal operculum. F, Frontal operculum. 0, Orbital operculum. In Fig. 383.—Diagram to Illustrate the Development op the Opercula which cover the Insula. A, Sylvian fossa before opercula begin to form ; B, Fronto-parietal and temporal opercula well advanced ; C, All the four opercula developed but not in apposition. F.P. Fronto-parietal operculum. O.R. Orbital wall of fossa. s'^. Anterior horizontal limb of Sylvian fissure. T. Temporal operculum. F. Frontal operculum. s'*. Ascending limb. F.R. Frontal wall of fossa. 0. Orbital operculum. s'*. Posterior horizontal limb. the margins of these two opercula come together to form the posterior limb of the Sylvian fissure, there is a greater extent of the Sylvian fossa covered by the temporal operculum than by the fronto- parietal operculunu This accounts for the more oblique direction of the Sylvian fissure in the foetal brain. But at this stage a growth-antagonism between the two opercula takes place, and in this