OSTEOLOGY. 234 Tend Flexor brevis (ligitoriim Sustentaculum tali Tibiali S<'APHOID or NAVICULAR Tibialis posticus^ 'J'ibial Abductor minimi diL'iti - Accessorius Flexor brevis lialUiois MjDDLE CUNEIFORM External cuneiform Peroiieus brevis Flexor brevis mill, iti and is oecasioually a separate ossicle (os trigoriuiu). To it is attached the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The groove, which winds obliquely from above downwards and inwards over the pos- terior surface of the bone, lodges the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis muscle. The head (caput tali), of oval form, is directed forwards and inwards. Its anterior surface is convex from side to side and from above downwards, and articulates with the navicular bone (facies articularis navicularis). In- feriorly this surface is confluent with the middle calcan- ean facet, but in well-marked speci- mens, or when the bones are articu- lated, it will be seen that" a small area in front of, and ex- ternal to, the middle calcanean facet, rests upon an articular surface on the upper part of the fore portion of the OS calcis, and is called the anterior calcanean facet (facies articularis calcanea anterior). To the inner and under surface of the head there is a cartilage - covered surface which does not articulate with any bone, but rests on the upper surface of the inferior cal- caneo - navicular ligament, and is supported on the inner side by the tendon of the tibi- alis posticus muscle (Fawcett, Ed. Med. Joiirn. 1895, p. 987). The neck (collum tali), best seen above, passes from the front of the body and inclines towards the inner side. It is confluent with the inner surface in front of the internal malleolar facet, and externally forms a wide groove, which becomes con- tinuous inferiorly with the outer end of the interosseous groove. Penmeus loll I. Met Sesamoid bones. Flexor brevis and abductor hallucis Flexor.brevis and adductores hallucis First phalanx- t jfT" Flexor longu;- hallucis Adductor obliquus ' allucis Palmar interossei Metatarsal Flexor brevis and abductor minimi digiti Plantar inter- ossei Flexor brevis digitorum Flexor longus digitorum Third or terminal phalanx Ki<i. 174.—Bones of the Right Foot as seen from Below.