TEXT-BOOK OF ANATOMY. 4 grouped together to form the various tissues of the body forms an important branch of anatomy, which is termed histology. The structure of the human body may be studied in two different ways. The several parts may be considered with reference to their relative positions, either as they are met with in tlie course of an ordinary dissection, or as they are seen on the surface of a section through the body. This is the topograiihical method. On the other hand, the several systems of organs may be treated separately and in sequence. This constitutes the systematic method, and it is the plan which is adhered to in this treatise. Descriptive Terms.—Anatomy is a descriptive science- founded on observation, and in order that precision and accuracy may be attained it is absolutely necessary that we should be provided with a series of well-defined descriptive terms. It must be clearly understood that all descriptions are framed on the supposition that the body is in the erect position, with the arms by the side and the hands held so that M.R Fig. 1.—Horizontal Section through the Tuunk at the Level of the Fhist Lumbak Vektebra. the palms look forwards and the thumbs outwards. • An imaginary plane of section, passing longitudinally through the body so as to divide it accurately into a right and left half, is called the mesial plane. Fig. 1 (M.P.). When the right and left halves of the body are studied it will be found that both are to a large extent formed of similar parts. The right and left limbs are alike; the right and left halves of the brain are the same; there are a right and left kidney and a riglit and left lung, and so on. So far, the organs are said to be symmetrically arranged. But still a large amount of asymmetry may be observed. Thus the chief bulk of the liver lies to the right side of the mesial plane, and the spleen is an organ which belongs wholly to the left half of the body. Indeed it is well to state that perfect symmetry never does exist. There always will be, and ah\'ays must be, a certain want of balance between symmetrically placed parts of the body. Thus the right upper limb is, as a rule, constructed upon a heavier and more massive plan than the left, and even in those organs where the symmetry appears most perfect, as for instance the brain and spinal cord, it only requires a closer study to reveal many points of difference between the right and left halves. The line on the front of the body along which the mesial plane reaches the surface is