1009 STKUCTURE OF THE STOMACH. . 681.—Diagram td show Formation of Pylorus. P, Peritoueuiu ; L, Longi- tudinal layer of muscular fibres ; C, Circular layer ; M, Mucous membrane ; V, Villi. It will be .seen that the pyloric narrowing is due practically entirely to a gradual thickening of the circular muscular fibres, which stops abruptly at tlie pyloric oritice. The submucous coat (tela sulmiucosa) is a layer of ytrong but loose connective tissue, which lies between, and unites, the muscular and mucous coats (Fig. 679). It is more loosely attaciied to the former and more closely to the latter coat, and it forms a bed in which the vessels and nerves break up before entering- the nuicous membrane. The mucous coat (tunica mucosa), if examined in the fresh state soon after death, is of a reddish gray colour and of moderate consistence. When examined some time after death, the colour turns to a darker gray, and the whole membrane becomes softer and more pulpy. It is thicker (over 2 mm.) and firmer in the pyloric than in the cardiac portion, and is thinnest at the fundus, where it often shows signs of post- mortem digestion. When the stomach is empty all three outer coats, which are extensile, contract, whilst the inextensile mucous coat, as a result of its want of elasticity, is thrown into numerous prominent folds or rurjo', which project into the interior and, as it were, occupy the cavity of'the contracted organ. These are, in general, longitudinal in direction, with numerous cross branches, and they are largest and most numerous along the great curvature. Tliey disappear when the stomach is distended. When the surface of the mucous coat is examined in a fresh stomach, it is seen to be marked out into a number of small, slightly elevated, polygonal areas (arese gastricse) by numerous linear depressions ; the nuicous membrane is consequently said to be mainmillated (Fig. 682, A). These little areas, which measure from 1 to 6 nnu. in diameter, are beset with numerous small pits (foveolte gastricfe, about •2 mm. wide), wliicii ai-e the mouths of the gastric glands, and they are so closely placed that the amount of surface separating them is reduced (par- ticularly in the pyloric portion, where the gland mouths are widest) to a series of elevated ridges (plicse villoste) resembling villi on section. Although the gland mouths cannot be seen with the naked eye, a very slight magnification is sutticient-to show them clearly; it is also possible to see the gland tubes leading off from the bottom of each (Fig. 682, B). Blood-vessels.—The arteries of the stomach are all derived uiately from the cceliac axis. The coronary arises from this trunk direct. Having reached the lesser curvature and given off an oesophageal branch, it divides into two large branches, which run, one on each side, along this curvature, and join below willi two similarly disposed arteries de- rived from the pj/ZorVc branch of the hepatic. From the two arches thus formed, four or five large branches jjass to each surface of the stomach, and soon pierce tlie nuis cular coat. Along the great curva- ture several smaller branches reach the stomach from the riyht and left (jastro-epiploic arteries, which are branches _ respectively of the gastro-duodenal and the splenic, and run in the great omentum close to its attachment to the stomach. Finally, four or five vasa brevm, branches of the splenic, are distributed to the fundus of the stomach, which they reach by passing forwards between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum. At first the arteries lie lieneath the peri- tonemn ; very soon, however, they pierce the nuisctilar coat, wliich they supply, and reaching the sul)nnicosa, break up to form a close network of vessels. From these arise numerous small 64 .Maiiniiill Mouths of gastric glands, with gland < tubes at bottom Depression between two- manimilla: Mouth of gastric gland" P'iG. 682.—The Mucous Mkmbrake of Stomach. A, Natural size ; B, Magnified 25 diameters. In A the rugte and the nuunuiillated surface are shown. In B the gland nioutlis (foveola; gastricae), with the gland tubes leading off from some of them, and the ridges separating the mouths (plicne vilIos;e) are seen.