THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 824 Fig. 579.—The Dorsalis Pedis Artery and its Branches. tibial nerve, whicli intervenes between it innermost tendon of the extensor Peroiieus brevis - Extensor longiis rtigitonii Anterior peroneal artery External malleolar artery Extensor brevis digitorum Tarsal artery Metatarsal. artery Dors.'il interosseons arteries and the extensor brevis digitorum and digitorum. Anterior tibial artery Extensor loiigii,-. liallncis Tibialis antious Internal malleolar artery Dorsalis pedih artery Arteria dorsalis liallucis On its inner side it is in relation with the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis. Two venie com- ites, one on each side, accompany the artery. As it passes through the base of the first interos- seous space it lies Ijetween the two heads of tlie first dorsal interosseous muscle, and in the sole of tlie foot it is dorsal to the flexor brevis hallucis. Branches. — On the dorsum of tlic foot the dor- saHs jiedis iivtery gives off cutaneous branches, the tarsal bi'anch, the metatarsal branch, and the dorsalis hallucis or first dorsal inter- osseous. In the sole of the foot, and before it unites with the external plantar artery, it gives off the princeps hallucis. (1) Cutaneous branches, two or tliree in numl^er, are distributed to the skin on the dorsum and inner side of the foot; they anastomose with branches of the internal plantar artery. (2) The tarsal branch (a. tarsea lateralis) is given off opposite the head of the astragalus ; it runs outwards beneath the extensor brevis digitorum, sup2")lyiug that muscle and the tarsal joints, and anastomoses M'ith branches of the anterior peroneal, metatarsal, and external plantar arteries, and with the external malleolar artery. (3) The metatarsal artery (a. arcuata) arises opposite the internal cuneiform bone. It runs outwards on the bases of the metatarsal bones, beneath the long and short extensor tendons, supplies the extensor brevis, and anastomoses with branches of the tarsal and external plantar arteries. It gives off three dorsal interosseous arteries (aa. metatarse<5e dorsales) which run downwards on the muscles which occupy the three outer' interosseous spaces to the clefts of the toes, where each divides into two collateral digital branches (aa. digitales dorsales) for the adjacent sides of the toes bounding the cleft to which it goes. The outer side of the little toe receives a branch from the outermost dorsal interosseous artery. Each dorsal interosseous artery gives off" a j^osterior perforating branch which passes through the posterior part of the interosseous space, between the heads of the dorsal interosseous muscle, to anastomose with the plantar arch, and an anterior perforating branch, which descends through the anterior part of the space to anastomose with the corresponding plantar digital artery. (4) The dorsalis hallucis artery (first dorsal interosseous) is continued forwards from the dorsal artery of the foot, and runs on the dorsal surface of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. It ends by dividing into collateral dorsal digital branches for the adjacent sides of the first and second toes. Before it divides it usually gives off a