THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 46G tloor of the fourth ventricle becomes narrower, and other objects appear in tlie tegmental substance. The superior cerebellar peduncle (bracliium conjunctivum) is a very con- spicuous object, in sections, through the middle and upper parts of the pons. In transverse section it presents a semilunar outline, and as it emerges from the cerebellum it lies immediately on the outer side of the fourth ventricle, towards which its concave aspect is turned (Fig. 345). Its dorsal border is joined with the corresponding peduncle of the opposite side by the thin lamina of white matter, termed the superior medullary velum, whilst its ventral border is sunk to a small extent in the dorsal part of the pons. As it is traced upwards it sinks deeper and deeper into the pons until it becomes completely submerged, with the exception of the posterior border to which the superior velum is attached. It now lies on the outer side of the tegmental or reticular substance of the pons, and this position it maintains until the mesencephalon is reached (Fig. 34G). About half-iuay up the pons the nuclei of the trigeminal or fifth cranial nerve mark a very important stage in its tegmental portion. These nuclei are two in number on each side, viz. a large oval terminal nucleus for certain of the sensory fibres of the nerve and a nucleus of oiigin equally conspicuous for certain of the motor fibres (Fig. 345). The sensory nucleus lies close to the outer surface of the pons, deeply surd< in its tegmental part, and in the interval between the submerged anterior border of the superior cerebellar peduncle and the ventral part of the pons. The motor nucleus is placed on the inner side of the sensory nucleus, but somewhat nearer the dorsal surface of the pons. At this level the spinal root of the fifth nerve disappeai's by joining the fibres of the sensory portion. The two roots of the fifth nerve traverse the ventral part of the pons on theii' way to and from the region of the nuclei. Above the level of the nuclei of the trigeminal nerve a new tract of fibres comes into view. This is the mesencephalic root of the fifth nerve, as it descends to join the emerging fibres of the motor part of the fifth nerve. It is a small bundle of nerve fibres, semilunar in cross section, which lies close to the inner side FiQ. 346.—Section THRonoH the Upper Part of the Pons Varolii of the Orang, above the Level of the Trigeminal Nuclei. of the superior cerebellar peduncle and on the outer and deep aspect of the gray matter on the floor of the fourth ventricle (Figs. 346 and 347). On a slightly deeper plane than the mesencephalic root of the fifth nerve, between it and the posterior longitudinal bundle, and in close relation to the gray matter on the floor of tlie ventricle, is the collection of pigmented cells which con- stitute the substantia ferruginea.