496 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Decussation ol lateral fillet fibres Inferior quadrii^eniinal nueleus MesonceplialiL root of fifth nerve Fourth nerve • Posterior longitiulinal ^ bundle Lateral fillet - Decussating superior_ cerebellar Iieduncles Mesial fillet- Fk;. 3()7.—Section through the Inferior Quadrioeminal Body and thk Tegmentum ok the Mesencephalon BELOW the Level of the Nucleus of thk Foui<TH Nehve in THE Orang. (The decussation of the .superior cerebellar peduncles and the course of tlie fourth nerve in the Sylvian gray matter is seen.) salient features is the intimate association whicli it presents with the three motor nuclei from which the nerves for the supply of the muscles of the eyeball take origin, viz. the oculo - motor or third nucleus, the trochlear or fourth nucleus, and the abducent or sixth nucleus. The first two of these are closely applied to its inner and dorsal aspect, whilst the abducent nucleus is placed on its outer side. Into each of these nuclei it sends many collaterals, and probably also some of its constituent fibres, and these end in terminal arborisations around the nuclear cells. It would appear, therefore, that one of the most im- portant functions of this strand is to bind together these nuclei, and thus enable them to act in harmony with each other. Fibres also enter the posterior longitudinal fasci- culus from the auditory system and perhaps, also, from the facial and other motor nuclei. The results obtained by degeneration would seem to indicate that, to a large extent, it is formed of fibres which run a short course within it. In spite of the large amount of attention wliicli has been given to the study of the posterior longitudinal liundle, it must be admitted tliat there is little unanimity of opinion regarding its connexions and functions. That it is a brain tract of high importance is evident from the fact that it is present in all vertebrates, and, further, that its fibres as.sume their medullary sheaths at an extremely early period. In fish, amphibians, and reptiles, it is one of the most powerful bundles of the medulla. In man its fibres niedullate between the sixth and seventh months of foetal life, and at the same time as the fibres of the anterior basis-bundle of the cord, with which it stands in connexion. According to Van Gehuchten and Edinger, it extends upwards beyond the level of the oculomotor nucleus, and in the sul)thalamic region its fibres take origin from a special nucleus of its own in the gray matter of the third ventricle, immediately below the level of the corpora mammillaria. Held asserts that numerous fibres, arising from cells in the superior quadrigeminal body, curve in an arcuate manner in the teg- mentum outside the Sylvian gray matter, to take part on the ventral asjjeet of this in what is called the " fountain decussa- tion." Reaching the opposite side these fibres turn downwards and join the ])osterior longitudinal fasciculus. The same authority considers that fibres from the ventral part of the posterior commissure can also be traced down- wards into the posterior longitudinal bundle. Edinger, on the other hand, places these fibres as a distinct tract on the ventral and lateral aspect of the posterior longitudinal bundle, although in apposition with it. Mendel believes that fibres from the ocnlo-motor nucleus are carried down in the posterior longitudinal bundle, and, from this, into the facial nerve for the supply of the orbicularis pal]iebrarum and the corrugator supercilii, bringing these muscles therefore under the control of the same nucleus as the levator ])alpebrte superioris muscle. This view has received corroboration at the hands of Tooth and Turner. It has been further suggested that fibres from the hypoglossal Decussating lateral fillet fibres Nucleus of in- ferior quadri- geminal body Mesencephalic root of fifth nerve Fourth nerve Posterior longitudinal bundle Lateral fillet feuperior cerebellar peduncle Mesial HUet Fig. 368.—Section through the Inferior Quaurigkminal Body and the Tegmentum of the Mesencephalon, at a slightly Lower Level than Fig. 307.