DEVELOPMENT OF THE SPINAL CORD. 437 it is at the lateral angles of the lozenge that this subdivision of the lateral wall becomes evident. This subdivision is a fundamental one, being present in the brain-part as well as the cord-part of the neural tube. By it the thick lateral wall is resolved into two longitudinal strips (the alar and basal laminse), which extend along the whole length of the tube, and which present definite and precise relations with the entering and emerging roots of the various cranial and spinal nerves. Confining our attention to the spinal cord, the posterior nerve-root is seen to enter the alar lamina, whilst the anterior nerve-root takes origin within and emerges from the basal lamina. MDL MVL AMF AM F Fig. 324.—Three Stages in the Development of the Spinal Cord (His), AC. AH. AL. AMF, Anterior column. Anterior horn of gray matter. Alar lamina. Antero-median fissure. AR. Anterior nerve-root. BC. Column of Burdacli. BL. Basal lamina. E. Ependyma. GC. Column of Goll. LC. Lateral column. MDL. Mid-dorsal lamina. MVL. Mid-ventral lamina. PC. Early posterior column. PH. Posterior l\prn of gray matter. PMF. Postero-median fissure. PR. Posterior nerve-root. Further Development of the Gray and White Matter of the Cord.—In the ventral pai't of the basal lamina the mantle layer thickens into a mass, which is readily recognised as the rudiment of the anterior horn of gray matter, and in this neuroblastic cells congregate in much larger numbers than elsewhere. Further, these neuroblastic cells begin to arrange themselves into groups, and the axis cylinder processes of a large proportion of them converge and form bundles of fibres, which penetrate into the peri- pheral layer, and finally pierce the external limiting membrane, to emerge as the fascicles of the anterior nerve-roots. Behind the anterior horn the mantle layer still remains very thin, and the neuroblasts are few in number. There is, therefore, at this stage no appear- ance of the posterior horn of gray matter. Many of the axons of the neuroblasts which occupy this region are seen curving forwards, and, after traversing the anterior horn, they find their way across the middle line in the mid-ventral lamina. In this manner is laid down, at a very early stage, the rudiment of the anterior white commissure of the cord. The white matter of the anterior and lateral columns is gradually established by axons from various neuroblasts in different parts of the mantle layer, entering the peripheral reticular layer and taking a longitudinal course within it. The anterior horn is well coated with white matter, however, before the lateral column takes definite shape. , The posterior columns of white matter are formed in a totally different manner, viz. by the introduction into the cord of nerve-fibres from without. The fibres of the posterior nerve-roots coming from the spinal ganglia strike the outer surface of the alar lamina of the lateral wall of the neural tube, and, piercing the external limiting membrane, take a longitudinal course in the peripheral reticular layer. On cross section these fibres first appear as an oval bundle, which lies in the outer part of the alar lamina (Fig. 324, pc). This bundle is the rudiment of Burdach's column, and at first it has a somewhat loose connexion with the cord; but as the posterior horn of gray matter gradually takes shape, the bundle in question increases in volume, and, changing its position, comes to lie on the inner aspect of the posterior horn. The column of Goll gradually assumes form