THE TEACHEA. 923 Thyroid cartilage -Crico-thyroid membrane Part of trachea covered by isthmns of thyroid body cartilage, and opposite the lower margin of the sixth cervical vertebra. From this it extends downwards through the lower part of the neck into the superior media- stinum of the thorax, in which it ends at the level of the upper border of the fifth ^dorsal vertebra hj dividing into the right and left bronchus. The length of the trachea in the male is from four to four and a half inches, and in the female from three and a half to four inches, but even in the same individual it varies consider- al)ly in length with the movements of the head and neck. The lower eud of the trachea is fixed in position. This is a necessary provision to prevent dragging on the roots of the hmgs during movements of the head and neck. The remainder of the tube is surrounded by a quantity of loose areolar tissue, and possesses a considerable amount of mobility. Further, its wall is lughly elastic, and thus when the head is thrown back the tube elongates through stretching, and when the chin is depressed its length is diminished by the recoil of its wall. The trachea does not present an absolutely uni- form calibre throughout its wliole length. About its middle it exhibits a slight expansion or dilatation, and from this the calibre dimin- ishes in an upward and a downward direction. Close to the bifurcation it is again slightly expanded (Braune and Stahel). These differences in the calibre of the tube are in some measure determined by the surroundings of the trachea. The upper part is apparently narrowed through its being clasped by the thyroid body. Further, a short distance above the bifurcation an impression, sometimes strongly mar'ked, is frequently seen on the left side of tiie trachea. This is due to the close contact of the aortic arch as it passes back- wards against this part of the tube. It is therefore probable that the second slight diminu- tion in calibre which is de- scribed hj Braune and Stahel is produced by the proximity of the aorta. Lejars gives the average antero-posterior dia- meter of the trachea in the living person as 11 mm., and the transverse diameter as 12-5 mm. In the dead subject the lumen of the tvibe is con- siderably greater. The trachea adheres rigor- ously to the median line ^Hyparterial bronchus '^Pulmonary artery Fic. 625.—The Tkache.v .\nd Bronchi. The thyroid body is indicated by a dotted Hne. except towards its lower end, where it deviates very slightly to the right. As it descends it recedes rapidly from the surface. This is due to its following-tlie curvature of the vertebral column, from which it is separated by tlie cesophagus alone: