THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 840 Opening into the superior longitudinal sinus are the superior cerebral veins, and it communicates on eacli side by small openings with a series of spaces in the dura mater, the lacunae laterales, into which the Pacchionian bodies (arachnoidal villi) project. It also communicates, by emissary veins which pass through the foramen csecum and through each parietal foramen (emissarium parietale), with the veins on the exterior of the cranium. Its cavity, which is triangular in transverse section, is crossed l^y several fibrous strands called the chordae Wilhsii. The inferior longitudinal sinus (siniis sagittalis inferior) lies in the posterior Olfactory bulb Optic ner\ Optic commissure Anterior cerebral artery Middle cerebral artery Posterior comnmni-^ catiua; artery Oculo-motor nerve Posterior cere- bral artei-y Superior cere- bellar artery Trochlear nerve Abducent nerve Trigeminal nerve Superior petrosal sinus Facial nerve Pars inter- media Auditory ner\ e Glosso-pliaryn- / geal nerve Pneumogastric nerve Spinal accessory nerve Hypoglossal ner Lateral sinus Vertebral arter\ Spinal cord Infra-trochlear nerve Supra-trochlear nerve Oculo-motor nerve Spheno-parietal sinus Ophthalmic vein Anterior clinoid process 1 roclilear nerve Oculo-motor nerve Abducent nerve Circular sinus I iphthal. nerve Superior maxillary nerve Inlerior maxillary nerve averiious sinus asilar sinus Gasserian naiiglion Basilar artery Inferior petrosal sinus Vertebral artery Sigmoid sinus Lateral sinus Tentorium cerebelli (cut) Occipital sinuses —Straight sinus Torcular Herophili Openings of occiiiital sinuse Superior longitudinal sinus Falx cerebri (cut) Fig. 583.—Basal Blood Sinuses of the Duha Mateh. two-tliirds of the lower free margin of the falx cerebri. It terminates posteriori}- by joining with the vena magna Galeni to form the straight sinus. It is circular in transverse section, and it receives tributaries from the falx cerebri and from the inner surface of the middle third of each cerebral hemisphere. The circular sinus (sinus circularis) is situated in tlie pituitary fossa, and sur- rounds the pituitary l>ody. It is usually formed l)y anterior (sinus intercavernosus anterior) and posterior (sinus intercavernosus posterior) transverse channels which pass across tlie pituitary fossa from one cavernous sinus to tlie other.