1138 UKOGENITAL SYSTEM. The fossa navicularis is the part of the vestibule placed ))e]iiii(l the vaginal opening and in trout of the fourchette. The external urethral orifice lies immediately in front of that of the vagina, and is about one inch Itehind the glans clitoridis. The o])ening has the appearance of a vertical slit, or of an inverted V-shaped cleft, the slightly prominent margins of which are in contact. The vaginal opening (orificiuni vaginie) lies furtlier back and below tlie orifice of the urethra. The appearance of the opening varies with the condition of the hymen—a membrane which in the young sul)ject partly closes the aperture. When the hymen is intact the opening is small, and is only seen when the memlirane is put on the stretch. When the hymen has been ruptured the opening is much larger, and round its margins are often seen small projections—carunculae hymenales —which are to be looked upon as persistent portions of the hymen. The hymen is a thin membranous fold, partially closing the lower end of the vagina, and usually perforated, somewhat in front of its middle point. The posi- tion of the opening gives the fold, when stretclied, a crescentic appearance. The opening in the hymen is sometimes cleanly cut, sometimes fringed. The mem- l)rane is not stretched tightly across the lower end of the vagina, but is so ample that it projects downw^ards into the urogenital fissure, and the parts of its upper surface are in contact with one another on each side of the opening. The opening is thus a mesial slit whose margins are normally in contact. The upper surface of the hymen is directly continuous with the vaginal wall, and on it are to be seen slijjlit ridyes continuous with the vaginal rugae. Developmentally the hymen appears to be a portion of the vagina. On each side of the vaginal opening, and close against the attached margin of the labium minus, is the minute aperture of the duct of Bartholin's gland. This is usually just large enough to be visible to the unaided eye. Numerous minute nuicous glands (glanduUe \ eslibuU miuores) open on the sin-face of the miicous membrane of the ^'estibule, between the urethral and vaginal orifices. The ojiening of the ductus para-urethralis at the side of the urethral orifice has been already noted (p. 1103). . Sebaceous glands are present on tlie laljia majora and minora, and beneath the prteputium clitoridis. In the latter situation the secretion of these helj^s to form the smegma clitoridis. Clitoris.—The clitoris is the morphological equivalent of the penis, and is composed of a body and two crura. Upon the summit of the body is a minute glans. Unlike the 1 penis, the clitoris is not traversed by the urethra. The body of the clitoris (corpus clitoridis) is com- posed for the most part of erectile tissue resembling that of the penis in the male. It is about an inch or an inch and a half in length, and is l)ent upon itself, forming an angle open downwards. The body of the clitoris tapers to- wards its distal end, which is covered hy the glans clitoridis. The organ is enclosed in a dense fibrous coat, and is divided l)y an incomplete septum (septum corporum cavernosorum) into two symmetrical and some- FiG. 779.—Dissection of the Female External Gen:tal Organs. Drawn from a specimen in the Anatomical Department, Trinity College, Dniilin. The suspensory ligament is seen passing upwards towards the symphysis pubis.