DEVELOPMENT OF INTESTINAL CANAL AND PERITONEUM. 1057 Stomacli Middle line C;ecuiii Duodeiimii Ca'cuiii Mesentery obliterated Middle line ^ Transverse mesocolon J ^ behind the stomacli and lesser omentum. This portion of the cavity becomes the upjjcr part (vestibule) of the small sac, and at first it communicates with the general cavity by a wide opening to the right of the lesser omentum ; but the growth of the liver, en- croaching upon the opening, and other causes, reduce it to a relatively small size, and it forms the foramen of Winslow in the adult. The great omentum is, as pointed out above,, a bag- like growth of the lower part of 'the mesogastrium, which passes downwards and to the left in fr.ont of the transverse colon. As shown in Fig. 713, A and B, it is at first entirel}' uncon- nected with the transverse colon and mesocolon; but about the thii-d or fourth month it becomes united to both, and the adult con- dition is established (Flo-. 713, C). It would appear that the growth of the lower part of the f5mall sac, and of the great onientuiu, is primarily due to a proliferation of the cells over a limited area of the mesogastrium, and a resulting folding of this layer downwards and to the left. Tlie mesentery Rectum^' Mesentery of descending colon Fig. 712.—Two Diagrams to illustrate the Development of the Mesenteries. u tlie first figure the rotation of the intestinal loop and the coutinuous primitive mesentery is shown. In tlie second Hgnre (to the right), which shows a more advanced stage, the portions of the primitive mesentery {going to the ascending and descending colons) which dis- appear, througli their adliesion to the posterior abdonunal wall, are shaded dark ; the portions which persist are liglitly shaded. In the upper part of the mesogastrium the spleen this fold which intervenes between the stomach and is developed, and the portion of spleen forms the gastro-splenic omentum, whilst the part be- hind the spleen becomes the lieno-renal ligament. Of the primitive mesentery, the portion connected with the stomach — the mesogastrium — becomes modified in the manner just described. The next division — the meso- duodenum — disappears com- pletely, owing to the turning over of the duodenal loop on to its right side, and its subsequent adhesion to the posterior abdominal wall, accompanied by the absorp- tion of its mesentery. The mesenteries of the small and large intestine are continuous at first (Fig. 711). When the rotation of the intestinal loop takes place around the superior mesenteric artery (see above), the beginning of the large intestine, with its mesentery, is carried to the right across the duodenum, and a fan-shaped portion of the general mesentery, lying within the concavity of the loop, is partially cut oW; this, later on, forms the mesentery proper in the tidult. At first it is continuous by its right border with the mesentery of the ascending colon, a part of the primitive mesentery (which is similarly continued into the mesenterv of the transverse, desceudinu', iliac, and pelvic colons). Subsecpicntlv, as 67 -Diagrams to illustrate the Development or ti Great Omentum (after Hertwig). shows tlie beginning of tlie great omentum and its independence of tlie transverse mesocolon : in B, the two come in contact ; and in C, they have fused along the line of contact. (According to Lock- wood, tlie two layers of the fold shown in A, running in between the great omentum and transverse mesocolon, insteatl of fusing, as shown in B, are drawn out—unfolded—producing the condition shown in C). A, stomach ; B, transverse colon ; C, small intestine ; D, duodenum ; E, pancreas ; F, great onieiitum ; G, placed in great sac ; H, in small sac of peritoneum.