OSTEOLOGY. 114 jugular foramen, internal to which it has a sharp curved border, often grooved, reaching to the apex. This groove, which is completed by articulation with the outer side of the basioccipital, lodges the inferior petrosal venous sinus. The superior "border is a twisted edge which is continiious with the upper margin of the groove for the lateral sinus posteriorly, and anteriorly and internally reaches the apex of the bone. liunning along it there is usually a well-marked groove for the superior petrosal venous sinus, and near its inner extremity it is slightly notched for the passage of the trigeminal nerve. Along the entire length of this border tlie tentorium cerebelli is attached. On the inferior surface of the petrous part, which is bounded in front by the anterior border internally and the tympanic plate externally, and behind Ijy the (jugular) by articidation with the occipital bone. Behind and external to the fossa tliere is a small q,uadrilateral surface, which is united to the extremity of the jugular process of the exoccipital by a synchondrosis. Inside the fossa, on its outer aspect, or placed on its external border, is the opening of a small canal (canaliculus mastoideus), which passes outwards to open into the canalis facialis, and transmits the auricular branch of the vagus (Arnold's nerve), which ultimately escapes through the auricular fissure (see a7ite). In front of the jugular fossa and separated from it by a sharp crest, and just internal to tlie tympanic plate, is the circular opening of the inferior orifice of the carotid canal (canalis caroticus). Directed at first upwards, this canal bends at a right angle and turns forwards and inwards, lying parallel to the anterior border; reacliing the fore part of the apex of the bone, it opens in front by an oblique ragged orifice. Througli the canal the internal carotid artery, accompanied by a plexus of sympatlietic nerves, passes into the cranium. On the ridge of bone separating the jugular fossa from the carotid canal is the opening of a small canal (canaliculus tympanicus), through which the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal (nerve of Jacobson) passes to reach the tympanum. Within the orifice of the carotid canal anotlier small opening or openings (canaliculi carotici tympanici) may be noticed wliicli afford passage to the tympanic branches of the internal carotid artery and carotid Fig. 87.—Right Temporal Bone as seen kuom Bef-ow. "-Aqueduct of cochlea "Canal for Jacobson's nerve 'Jugular fossa Canal for Arnold s Groove for inferior petrosal sinus posterior border, the follow- ing structures are to be noted. Springing from and ensheathed by the vaginal process is the slender and pointed styloid process (pro- cessus styloideus), the length of which varies much. l*ro- jecting downwards and slightly forwards and in- wards, it afibrds attachments to the stylo-glossus, stylo- hyoid, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles as well as the stylo- hyoid and stylo-mandibular ligaments. Just behind it, and between it and the mas- toid process, is the stylo - mastoid foramen (foramen stylomastoideum), which lies at the anterior end of the digastric groove, and trans- mits the facial nerve and the stylo-mastoid artery. Im- mediately within the styloid process there is a deep, smooth, excavated hollow, the jugular fossa (fossa jugularis), which is converted into a foramen