1108 UROGENITAL SYSTEM. usually be seen shining. In the pelvic part of its c(nirse the vas deferens crosses on the inner side of (1) the obliterated liypogastric artery, (2) the obturator nerve and vessels, (3) the vesical vessels, and (4) the ureter (Fig. 753). Vpfiical artery E.xtHrnal iliac vejist Is > (>Iitunitor nervi; Oliliti'rateil liyi)o.;a.strio artery Vas <leferniis First sacial verti'lira Position of intpviial iliac arterv. J-'rostate Opening of ureter into bladder Portions of vasadeferentia cMit in section Rectum Uretei' Vesicnla . 'SV seminalis "^^^ lectnni Internal nrelhral orilice Trigoimni vesicie Ureter "Vas deferen; - Fig. 753.—Mesial Section of an Addlt Male Pelvis. The coils of tlie small intestine wliicli lay within the jielvis liaye been lifted ont in order to give a view of the side \vall of tlie jielvic cavit)". The ])eritonenra is coloured bine. The separation of the bladder from the prostate is indicated somewhat diagraniniatically. Beyond the ureter the vas takes a somewhat sudden l^end, and passes down- wards and inwards towards tlie middle line, l)eneath the peritoneum of the pelvic floor. Reaching the interval between the base of the bladder in front and the rectum behind, the vasa de- ferentia of opposite sides occupy the angle formed between the vesiculge semi- nales (Fig. 755). As they approach one another each vas becomes somewhat tor- tuous, sacculated, and dilated, and assumes a general re- semblance in strv;cture to a portion of the vesicula semi- nalis. To this dilated part of the vas deferens the term Fig. 754. — Horizontal Skctidn through the Rectum and ampulla (ampulla ductuS de- Bladder at the Level at which the Ureters pierce the fy^-entis) is applied As it Bladder "Wall. , • ' j M-i t turns inwards the vas lies a From a specimen in the Museum, Trinity College, Dubbn. ^j^^^.^ distance behind the ureter, and immediately in front of the edge of the peritoneal fold sometimes known as tlie posterior false ligament of the bladder. Just above the base of