541 INTERNAL CAPSULE. insula or island of Eeil. Followed in an upward direction, it becomes gradually thinner and ultimately disappears. As it is traced downwards, however, it thickens considerably, and at the base of the brain it comes to the surface at the anterior perforated spot and becomes continuous with the gray matter of the cortex. Its extent corresponds very closely with the area occupied by the insula, and its surface towards this portion of the cerebral cortex shows ridges and depressions corresponding to the insular gyri and sulci. Amygdaloid Nucleus.—In the forepart of the temporal lobe, in front of, and to some extent above the extremity of the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, there is a round mass of gray matter, called the amygdaloid nucleus. The tail of the caudate nucleus joins its lower part, whilst above it is carried up into the puta- men. In front it is continuous with the gray cortex of the cerebrum. Tsenia Semicircularis.—This is a band of fibres which, for the most part, arise in the amygdaloid nucleus. From this it runs backwards in the roof of the de- scending horn of the lateral ventricle, and then arches upwards and forwards, so as to gain the floor of the body of the lateral ventricle. In both situations it lies close to the inner side of the nucleus caudatus, and finally, at the foramen of Monro, it bends downwards towards the anterior commissure. Some of its fibres pass in front and others liehind the commissure, and ultimately they end in the locus perforatus anticus (Kolliker). Internal Capsule.—This term is applied to the broad band of white matter which intervenes between the lenticular nucleus, on the outside, and the optic thalamus, tfBnia semicircularis, and caudate nucleus on the inner side. It presents many different appearances, according to the plane in which the brain is cut. In the region of the mesencephalon, a coronal section through the brain shows that in great part the internal capsule is directly continuous with the crusta of the crus cerebri (Fig. 375, p. 505). In horizontal section the internal capsule is observed to be bent upon itself opposite the ttisnia semicircularis, or the interval between the caudate nucleus and the thalamus. This bend, which points in- wards, is called the genu. About one-third of the internal capsule lies in front of the genu, and is termed the anterior limb; tlie remaining two-thirds, which lie behind the genu, constitute the posterior limb. The anterior limb of the internal capsule intervenes between the lenticular nucleus and the caudate nucleus. In its lower and fore- part it is much broken up by the connecting bands of gray matter which pass between the forepart of the putamen and the lenticular nucleus. Fig. 404.—Diagrammatic Representation op THE Internal Capsule (as seen in hori- zontal section). The anterior limb of the internal capsule is, for the most part, composed of corticipetal fibres belonging to tlie thalamic radiation. - It likewise contains a distinct corticifugal tract. The corti- cipetal fibres are of two kinds, viz. : thalamo- frontal and thalamo-striate. The former, which arise in the optic thalamus, go through the anterior limb of the internal capsule to reach the cortex of the frontal lobe. The thalamo-striate fibres likewise arise in the thalamus and enter the anterior limb, to reach the caudate and lenticular nuclei. The corticifugal fibres form a tract which has already been referred to in connexion with the mesencephalon. It is the fronto-pontine tract, which arises in the cortex of the prefrontal region, traverses the anterior limb of the internal capsule, forms the inner fifth of the crusta of the crus cerebri, and finally ends in the nucleus pontis.