THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1020 diameter ("5 to 2-0 mm.). They form an almost continuous layer as far as the opeuiui:- of the bile duct; beyond this they diminish progi'essively, and completely disappear near the duodeno-jejunal flexure. The mucous membrane, which is thicker in tlie duodenum than in any other part of the small intestine, is covered throughout with broad short villi. Its other character- istics have been already fully described. Various Forms of Duodenum.—Three different types of duodi'uuui have been described— (1) The annular, in wliicli the curves se])arating the various jiortioiis are open, and the two extremities come fairly close to one another. (2) The U-shaped, in which the transverse part of the third jiortion is very long, and the ascending portion nearly vertical ; and (3) tlie V-shaped duodenum, in which the transver.se part of the third portion is very short or al:)sent. Duodenal Pouch.—A diverticulum of tlie duodenum, ari.sing from its left si le just aliove the o])ening of the bile duct, and running into the sulistauce of the pancreas, is occasionally found. It is possibly connected with one of the outgrowths of the duodeniun from which the pancreas is develo])ed in the emljryo. Vessels and Nerves.—The duodenum receives its blood from the superior and inferior pancreatico-duodenal arteries, branches of the gastro-duodenal and superior mesenteric arteries respectively. The blood is retiu-ned liy the corresponding veins, the superior of which opens into the su])erior mesenteric, and the inferior into the beginning of the portal vein. ■ The lymphatics pass to a set of glands placed along the pancreatico-duodenal arteries, and thence to the cccliac glands. The nerves come from the solar plexus of the sympathetic. Duodeno-jejunal Flexure.—When the ascending terminal portion of the duo- denum reaches the under surface of the pancreas, af a. point opposite the left side of the first or second lumbar vertebra, it turns abruptly forwards, downwards, and to the left, and passes into the jejunum. This abrupt bend is known as the duodeno-jejunal flexure. Unlike the rest of the duodenum, which is subject to consideral^le variations in position, the duodeno-jejunal flexure is fixed by a thin l)and of unstriped muscle, which is attached above to the strong connective tissue around the coeliac axis, as well as to the left crus of the diaphragm, and Itelow joins tlie muscular coat of the duodenum at the flexure. This band is known as the suspensory muscle of the duodenum (musculus suspensorius duodeni—Treitz). The course taken l)y the gut at the duodeno-jejunal flexure is variable : the chief directions in their order of frequency are—(1) downwards, forwards, and to the left; (2) directly foivvaiils and downwards ; (3) to the left, and then downwards ; (4) forwards and to the right (Harnian). Some of the fibres of the suspensory nuiscle are ,said by Lockwood to jiass into the mesen- tery, and he con.sequently calls it " the suspensory muscle of the duodenum and mesentery proper." THE JEJUNUM AND ILEUM. Tlie upper two-fifths, that is, about 8 feet of the small intestine beyond the duodenum, are known as tlie jejunum (intestinum jejunum). The succeeding three- fifths, which usually measures al)Out 12 feet, constitute tlie ileum. The ileum opens into the large intestine at the junction of the ciecuni and ascending colon, where its orifice is guarded by the ileo-ctecal valve. Both the jejunum and ileum are connected to the parietes by a large fold of peritoneum — the mesentery—wliich conveys vessels and nerves from the posterior abdominal wall to these divisions of the intestine. The part of the tube to which the mesentery is connected is known as the mesenteric or attached border, the opposite side is the free border. The mesentery (mesenterium) is a broad fan-shaped fold, composed of two layers of peritoneum, which connects the small intestine to the back of the abdomen. One border of the fold is wide and contains the intestine within it (Fig. 68.">). The other, known as the root of the mesentery (radix mesenterii), is comimra- tively narrow, being only 6 or 7 inches wide, ])ut it is much thicker than the part near the gut, for it contains between its layers a considerable amount of fatty subperitoneal tissue, in addition to the la.rge vascular trunks pass- ing to the intestine. The root is attached to the posterior abdominal wall along an oblique line, extending approximately from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa (Fig. G91). In this course its line of attacliment passes from tiie duodeno-jejunal flexure down tlie front of