698 THE OEGANS OF SENSE. and nasal process of the superior maxilla, and ends above in a rounded, blind extremity or fundus, while it narrows below into the nasal duct. Here a fold of mucous membrane, named the valve of Bei'aud or of Krause, together with a later- ally-directed pouch, the sinus of Ai'lt, are sometimes present. Near its superior extremity it is crossed in front by the internal tarsal ligament, from the upper and lower edges of whicli the orbicularis palpebrarum takes origin, while behind it is the tensor tarsi muscle, or muscle of Horner. The nasal duct (ductus naso-lacrimalis) averages about 18 mm. in length and has a diameter of from 3-4 mm. Rather narrower near its middle than at its upper and lower extremities, it is directed downwards and slightly backwards, and opens into the inferior meatus of the nose at the junction of its anterior with its pos- terior three-fourths, i.e. a distance of 30-35 mm. from the posterior boundary of the nostril. Its lower orifice is somewhat variable in form and position, and is occa- sionally duplicated. It is fi-equently guarded by a fold of mucous membrane, termed the valve or plica lacrimalis of Hasner. Through this orifice the mucous lining of the duct is continuous with that of the nose. The mucous membrane of the duct is thrown into inconstant folds, several of which have been described as valves. Its epithelium is columnar and in part ciliated; opening into the lower part of the duct are numerous glands, similar to those in the nasal mucous membrane. The nerves of the lachrymal canals and sac are derived from the iufratrochlear branch of the nasal; their arteries from the inferior palpebral and nasal. The veins of the nasal duct are laro;e and numerous, formino; a sort of erectile tissue similar to that in the nose. Development of the Eye. Tlic retina and optic nerve aredevelo]jed from a liollow outgrow tli of tlie fore-brain, termed the optic vesicle (see pp. 442 and 553). This extends towards the side of the liead, and its conne.xiou with the Vjrain is gradually elongated to form the optic stalk. The ect(jderni overlying the optic vesicle becomes thickened, invaginated, and finally cut off as a liollow I Cliorioidal fissure Fig. 507.—Sections thuough Portions of the Heads ok Fcetal Rabbits, to illustrate tlie connexion' of the ojitic cuj) with tlie fore-brain, and the iiivaghiatiou of the ectoderm to form the lens. island of cells, wliich is developed into the lens and is named the lens vesicle. This lens rudiment indents the outer and low er part of the optic vesicle, w hicli now assumes the form of a cup (optic cup), lined by two layers of cells continuous with each other at the margin of the cup. Tlie inner of these strata, thicker than the outer, is named the retinal layer, and becomes differentiated into the nervous and supporting elements of the retina; while the outer, named the pigmentary layer, forms its pigmented epithelium. The edge of the optic cup extends in front of the equator of the lens, and bounds the future aperture of the pupil. In front of the lens, and also opposite its equator, the retinal layer is thin and represented only by a stratum of columnar cells which becomes closely applied to the pigmentary layer, tlie two forming the pars ciliaris and pars iiidica retinsc. The in- dentation of the optic cup extends as a groove for some distance along the postero-inferior