419 CEREBKOSPINAL NERVOUS SY^^EM. Fig. 312.—Three Stages in the Development OF A Cell from a Spinal Ganglion. ganglionic neuron, with its two axons and no typical dendrites, is a nervous unit very different from a neuron in the gray matter of the cerebrospinal axis. It is believed by some, however (van Gehuchten and Cajal), that the peripheral process, in spite of its enclosure within a medullary sheath, and though presenting all the char- acters of a true axon, is in reality a dendrite. If this be the case, the morphological differ- ence between a dendrite and an axon dis- appears, and van Gehuchten's functional distinction alone remains characteristic, viz. that the axon is cellulifugal and conducts impulses away from the cell, whilst the dendrites are cellulipetal and conduct im- pulses towards the cell. Neuroglia.—The neuroglia is the sup- porting tissue of the cerebrospinal axis. It may be considered to include two different forms of cells, viz. the lining ependymal cells and the neuroglia cells proper. We place these cells under the one heading, seeing that in all probability they both have a common developmental origin. The ependymal cells are the columnar epithelial cells which line the central canal of the spinal cord and the ventricles of the brain. In the embryonic condition a process from the deep extremity of each cell traverses the entire thickness of the neural wall and reaches the surface. It is not known whether this process exists in the adult. The neuroglia cells proper are found in great numbers scattered throughout the gray and white substance of the brain and - cord. They present many different forms, but the leading and distinguishing feature consists in the great number of fine branching processes which as a rule pass out from all parts of the body. These neuroglial cells act as a sort of packing material placed between the nervous ele- ments, and their processes twine around the different parts of the neurons in such a way as both to isolate them and bind them together. The ependymal cells are undoubtedly derived from the original neuro-epithelial cells of the early neural tube, and in all prob- ability the neuroglia cells proper have a similar origin. They both, therefore, proceed from the ectoderm. Summary.—1. The cerebrospinal nervous system is composed of two parts, viz. («) a medullary part, consisting of the brain and spinal cord, with the efferent nerve-fibres which pass out from them ; (&) the ganglionic part, with the afferent nerve-fibres. 2. Each of these parts has a different origin and is composed of neurons which possess characteristic features. 3. The ganglionic neurons are derived from the primitive cells of the neural crest, and have each one process which divides into two. Of these the central •division enters the cerebrospinal axis and probably represents the axon, whilst the Fig. 313. — Section through the Central Canal of the Spinal Cord op a Human Embiiyo, showing Ependymal and Neur- oglial Cells (after v. Lenhossek). A, Ependymal cell. B, Neuroglial cell.