SUEFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. 1196 lumbar spines, the pylorus itself l)einy situated 1 iu. to the right of the twelfth dorsal spine. The lesser curvature lies to tlie left of and below the tenth and eleventh dorsal spines. Viewed from behind, the large intestine on botli sides overlaps the outer border of the kidneys and lies parallel to the outer liortler of the erectores spinte muscles. The peritoneum is reflected from the colon on to the posterior abdominal wall along a line drawn vertically upwards from the centre of the iliac crest. The splenic flexure, which reaches up to the level of the t\^e]fth dorsal spine and the tenth rib, lies about 5 in. above the iliac crest. The hepatic flexure lies on a lexel with the first hnnbar spine. Spleen.—Tlie convex, postero-external, or diaphragmatic surface of the spleen is overlapped by the ninth, tentli, and eleventh ribs, the long axis of the organ nearly corresponding to that of the tenth rili (Fig. 785, p. 1150). The spleen is placed further back than is often supposed, its postero-internal or verteliral angle (a})ex of spleen, according to Cunningham) being situated on a level with, and 1^- in. external to, the tenth dorsal spine. Its antero-external angle (anterior basal angle of Cunningham), which lies on a level with the twelfth dorsal spine, reaches forwards as far as the mid-axillary line, where it is overlapped by the tenth rib. The posterior basal angle lies on a level with, and about 4 in. external to, the first lumbar spine, in a line drawn vertically upwards from a point 1 in. behind the centre of the iliac crest. This angle is situated opposite the eleventh intercostal space, behind the upper part of the descending colon and immediately external to the middle of the outer ])order of the kidney. Having placed a mark on the skin corresponding to these three angles, the out- line of the organ is delimited as follows :—Comnrencing at the vertebral angle, the ujjper border is arched upwards so as to reach the level of the ninth rib in the scapular line, thence it descends across the posterior axillary line, as the so-called anterior notched border, to end in the mid-axillary line at the antero-external angle. The postero-inferior or renal border is drawn from the vertebral to the inferior (posterior basal) angle along the eleventh intercostal space. The short antero- inferior border unites the anterior and posterior basal angles. The upper third of the spleen is overlapped by the base of the lung (diaphragm and pleura interven- ing), which crosses it horizontally at the level of the tenth dorsal spine ; hence the upper limits of the spleen cannot be defined by percussion. The postero-inferior limit of the splenic dulness merges into that of the kidney and the thick muscular tissues of the loin. The only parts of the splenic outhne, therefore, which can be defined by percussion are part of the upper arched border, and the antero-external and short antero-inferior borders. The dull area lies between the posterior and mid-axillary lines, and reaches down to within a])out two inches of the costal region. Pancreas.—The head of the pancreas lies opposite the last dorsal and first lumbar spines ; the tail lies at the same level as the splenic flexure of the colon, a little above the posterior basal angle of the spleen (Fig. 735, p. 1089). Table indicating the Level of the more important Structures in RELATION TO THE SpINES OF THE VeRTEBR^:. Level of other Structures. Spines of Vertebrae. Origins of Spinal Nerves. 1 Cervical 1 2 Cervical 3 and 4 3 .5 „ 4 6 „ 5 6 „ 8 „ 1 and 2 Dorsal 1 Dorsal 3 Soft palate. Isthmus of fauces. Upper 2)arl of ejiiglottis. Vocal cords. Crico-tliyroid inembrane. I^Arcli of thoracic duct. \Coininencenient of trachea and u?so]ihagus. / Lower end of cer'V'ical enlargement of cord. Inferior cervical ganglion. I Apices of lung. Summit of arch of subclavian arterv-