929 THE PLEUKAL MEMBEANES. mediastinal pleura is applied to tlie arch of the aorta and the phrenic and vagus nerves; to the left innominate vein, the left superior intercostal vein, and the left common carotid and left subclavian arteries; to the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. The right mediastinal pleura, on the other hand, is applied, above the level of the root of the lung, to the upper part of the vena cava and right innominate vein ; to the right innominate artery; to the vena azygos major, as it hooks forwards above the bronchus; to the vagus and phrenic nerves ; and to the right side of the trachea. Opposite the root of the lung, as well as in the region below it, the mediastinal pleura clothes the corresponding aspect of the peri- cardium, and is somewhat firmly attached to it. As the phrenic nerve passes downwards upon the pericardium it is likewise covered over by the pleura. In the region corresponding to the upper lateral aspect of the pericardium the mediastinal pleura is prolonged outwards, so as to form an invest- ment for the root of the lung, and become continuous around the hilus of the lung with the visceral pleura. Below the root of the lung the two layers of pleura which invest it come into apposition with each other, and are prolonged down- wards as a distinct fold, termed the ligamentum latum pulmonis. This fold stretches between the pericardium and the lower part of the inner surface of the lung, and ends below in a free border. Behind the root of the lung and the ligamentum latum pul- monis the mediastinal pleura on the right side is carried backwards to the vertebral column on the oesophagus; whilst on the left side it is carried backwards over the descending aorta, and to a small extent, in the region immediately above the diaphragm and in front of the aorta, over the lower end of the oesophagus. Lines of Pleural Reflection.—These are three in number—viz. the anterior or sternal, the posterior or vertebral, and the lower or diaphi-agniatic. The pleural cavities are not symmetrical. The left is longer and narrower than the right, and it thus happens that the lines of pleural reflection do not accurately correspond on the two sides of the body. Further, altliough the posterior line of reflection is fairly constant, the other two reflection-lines are subject to marked variations in different subjects. Consequently the following desci-iption must be regarded as merely giving the average condition. The posterior or vertebral line of pleural reflection is that along which the costal pleura turns forwards from the vertebral column so as to become the mediastinal pleura. On the right side, above the root of the lung, the pleura passes from the bodies of the vertebrae 59 Fig. 629.—Lateral View of the Right Pleuhal Sac in A Subject hakdened by Formalin-injection. The bine Hues indicate the outline of the right luug, and also the position of its Assures.