SUEFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. 1232 bounded by the levator aui and coccygeal muscles covered by the anal fascia; the outer wall by the obturator internus muscle covered by the obturator fascia. An abscess in tlie ischio-rectal fossa should be opened early, otherwise it is liable to burst through the inner wall into tlie rectum; should it open also upon the skin surface a complete "fistula in ano " is formed. When a " fistula in ano " results from the bursting of a submucous abscess of the anal canal the track of the fistula runs either internal to or through the fibres of the internal and external sphincter muscles, and the external or skin opening is, as a rule, close to the anus, while the internal opening is generally within the upper end of the anal canal. Occasionally the iscliio-rectal abscess perforates the levator ani towards the apex of the fossa; it then burrows into the peri-rectal cellular tissue of the pelvis, and opens into the ampulla of the rectum. In other cases, again, the abscess starts in the peri-rectal tissue internal to the levator ani, and either bursts into the rectal ampulla or through the levator ani into the ischio-rectal fossa, and so reaches the surface. Or the pus may burrow between the rectum and coccyx, whence it may pass outwards through the great sacro-sciatic foramen behind the parietal pelvic fascia into the buttock ; or, by piercing the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, may reach the extra- peritoneal fatty tissue of the pelvis and ascend in it to form an iliac abscess. The lymi)lmtics from the anus pass along the perineo-crural folds to the inner- most glands of the groin, both inguinal and crural. From the rectum the majority of the lymphatics pass through a chain of glands which lie alongside the superior luemorrlioidal vessels in the retro-rectal cellular tissue in front sOf the sacrum; others, accompanying the middle hnemorrhoidal veins, go to the glands in the neighbourhood of the internal iliac vessels. In making a rectal examiimtion the finger should be carried forwards from the tip of the coccyx so as to enter the anus from behind. Tlie finger is then gently pressed upwards and slightly forwards through the sphincteric region in the axis of the anal canal until it reaches the cavity of the rectum, the lower part of which is dilated to form the ampulla. The folds or valves of Houston, three in num})er, project into the cavity of the bowel in the form of prominent crescentic shelves, which are produced by the three permanent or true flexures into which the rectum is thrown (15irmingham); the lower valve, which may be sufficiently prominent to impede the passage of the finger, must not be mistaken for a pathological condition. Through the anterior wall the finger can palpate from below up- wards the bulb of the urethra, the membranous parts of the urethra, Cowper's glands (when inflamed and enlarged ), the apex and lateral lobes of the prostate, the vesicute seminales (when diseased), and the external trigone of the bladder. With the left forefinger in the rectum, an instrument passed into the bladder can be distinctly felt as it traverses the mem- branous urethra ; as it lies in the prostatic urethra it is sepai-ated from the finger by the pro- state. Hence, when n falsepassai/e is made through the bulbous or membranous portion of the urethra, the instrument, if pushed onwards towards the bladder, will be felt immediately outside the rectum between it and the prostate. In the child, owing to the rudimentary condition of the prostate, the instrument is distinctly felt close to the rectum, as it lies in the prostatic as well as in the membranous portion of the urethra. When the prostate is not enlarged the tip of the finger can just reach the external trigone, wliich is most dis- tinctly felt when the bladder is full. The vesiculfe seminales, indistinctly felt when healthy, may be readily palpated when enlarged and indurated from disease. Through the lateral wall of the rectum may be palpated the ischio-rectal fossa, the bony wall of the true pelvis, and, when enlarged, the internal iliac lymphatic glands; through the posterior wall the hollow of the sacrum and coccyx, and the lymphatic glands lying in the retro- rectal cellular tissue. Ill the child rectal examination enables one to palpate, in addition to the structures in the cavity of the true pelvis, those which occupy the lower segment of the ai)domen. When the bladder is empty even a small calculus can be readily felt by recto-abdominal palpation. The distance of the apex of the recto-vesical pouch of jieritoneum from the anus varies consideral)ly, according to the degree of distension of the bladder and rectum ; \\ hen l)Oth are empty it reaches to about 2 in. from the anus; when both are (hstended it is at least one inch higher. As pointed out by Birmingham, the peritoneum is closely adherent to the rectum above and in front, while at the side and below the connexion is much lo(jser, so that by stripping the peritoneum