THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE SPINAL NERVES. 629 A. Innervation of the Muscles of the Limbs.—The following laws appear to be applicable to the upper and lower limbs alike :— 1. No limb-muscle receives its nerve-supply from posterior primary divisions. 2. The dorsal and ventral strata of muscles are always supplied by the corresponding dorsal and ventral branches of the nerves concerned. The ventral muscular stratum is more extensive than the dorsal; the ventral nerves are the more numerous, and the additional nerves are postaxially placed. The spinal nerves supplying muscles of the upper limb are C. 5, 6, 7, 8 (dorsal), and C. 5, 6, 7, 8, T. 1 (ventral); the nerves for the muscles of the lower limb are L. 2, 3, 4, 5, S. 1, 2 (dorsal), and L. 2, 3, 4, 5, S. 1, 2, 3 (ventral). 3. The dorsal and ventral trunks of the nerves are distributed in the limb in a continuous, segmental manner; so that, " of two muscles, that nearer the head end of the body tends to be supplied by the higher nerve, and that nearer tlie tail end by the lower nerve " (Herringham). 4. The nerves placed most centrally in the plexus extend furthest into the limb, and the more preaxial nerves terminate sooner in the limb than the more postaxial nerves. Upper Limb. Dorsal Surface. Ventral Surface. Muscles of shoulder . C. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. Muscles of chest . C. 5, 6, 7, 8, T. 1. C. 6, 7, 8. „ arm . C. 5, 6, 7. C. 6, 7. „ forearm . C. 6, 7, 8, T. 1. hand . C. 6, 7, 8 (T. 1). Lower Limb. Muscles of thigh . L. 2, 3, 4, 5, S. 1, L. 2, 3, 4, 5, S. 1, 2. „ leg . L. 4, 5, S. 1, 2. L. 4, 5, S. 1. „ foot . L. .5, S. 1, 2. arm . forearm Muscles of thigh and buttock . Muscles of leg and foot I, 3. The only exception to this rule is on the ventral (anterior) surface of the upper arm, where a suppression of the muscle elements leads to an absence of the regular series of segmental nerves <c — . - - - - .... , T. 1) on its postaxial border. These nerves reappear in the forearm, and the occasional VENTRAL SURFACE ArTTh Forearm JTand C.3 4 5 6 7 DORSAL SURFACE Shoulder Arm Forearm \ Hand. i i ■ \ 1 : : Chest C.5 6 7 8 T.I J. DORSAL SURFACE ThigrTt &• Buttock £eff VENTRAL SURFACE ThigTi Zee/ L.2 3 4 5 S.I 2 L.2 3 4 5 S.I 2 3 Fi(i. 451.—Scheme of the segmental distribution of the muscular nerves of the upper and lower limbs. axillary arches" may be regarded as the muscular elements usually suppressed, and, Avhen present, supijlied by these nerves. Muscles with a Double Nerve-supply.—The existence of more than one nerve to a muscle indicates usually that the muscle is composite and is the representative of originally separate elements, belonging to one or both surfaces of the limb. In the case of the pectoralis major, subscapularis and flexor profundus digitorum, adductor magnus, and soleus, jiai'ts of the same (ventral or dorsal) stratum have fused, to form muscles innervated from their corresponding ventral or dorsal nerves. The other muscles having a double nerve-supply—brachialis anticus, biceps flexor cruris, and (sometimes) pectineus—are examples of fusion at the preaxial or postaxial border of muscular elements derived from the dorsal and ventral suj'faces of the limb, which are •correspondingly innervated by branches from both dorsal and ventral series : e.g. the brachialis anticus is innervated by the musculo-cutaneous and musculo-spiral nerves ; the biceps flexor cruris, by the peroneal (short head) and tibial (long head) nerves; and the jjectineus, by the anterior crural and (sometimes) obturator nerves. B. Innervation of the Skin of the Limbs.—^Wliile the scheme of cutaneous innervation of the limbs is fundamentally segmental, yet the arrangement is confused and complicated by various causes. The growth of the limb from the trunk has caused the skin to be drawn out •over it like a stretched sheet of india-rubber (Herringham), and at the same time the extent of the dorsal area of the limb is increased at the expense of the ventral area. The central nerves of the plexus remain buried deeply in the substance of the limb, only coming to the surface towards the periphery. Tlie proximal parts of both surfaces of the limb thus become innervated by 40 a