454 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. tract in the lateral column of the cord is seen to liecome looser in its formation; tlien coarse strands leave it, pass right through the anterior horn of gray matter, and, crossing the mesial plane, take up their position in the other side of the medulla, close to the antero-median fissure. Strands from the right crossed pyramidal tract alternate with corresponding strands from the left side, and the interval between the bottom of the antero-median furrow and the gray matter surrounding the central canal becomes filled up with a great mass of intercrossing bundles of fibres. When the decussation is completed the pyramid is seen to be composed of a solid and compact bundle of fibres, well marked off from the surrounding structures, which lies at the side of the antero-median fissure of the medulla. As a rule the inner three-fourths of the pyramid is composed of fibres which, lower down in the opposite lateral column of the cord, form the crossed pyramidal tract, whilst the outer fourth of the pyramid proceeds downwards in the anterior column of the cord of the same side as the direct pyramidal tract. A considerable amount of variation, however, occurs in the proportion of fibres which is allotted to the formation of these two tracts of the cord. Sometimes the crossed pyramidal tract is much larger than usual, and then the direct pyramidal tract suffers a corresponding diminution in size. Cases indeed occur in which the entire pyramid enters into the decussation, and in these there is no direct pyramidal tract in the cord. Further, it is not uncommon to meet with variations of an opposite Ivind which lead to an increase of the direct pyramidal tract at the expense of the crossed tract. In the majority of cases the decussation appears to be symmetrical—the division of the pyramid at the lower end of the medulla being into parts of corresponding size on the two sides; in certain instances, however, the decussation is asymmetrical, and the corresponding pyramidal tracts on opposite sides of the cord are then imequal in size. Seeing that the direct pyramidal tracts undergo a gradual decussation in the anterior commissure, as they descend in the cord, the final result is the same, no matter what varia- tions occur in the decussation at the lower part of the medulla. The variations indicated above receive an additional interest when viewed in the light of comparative anatomy. It would appear that only in man and the anthropoid apes is the decussation of the pyramids in the lower part of the medulla incomplete. According to Sherrington, a dii-ect pyramidal tract in the cord of the anthropoid apes stands in connexion with the arm-centre in the cerebral cortex. In the lower apes a direct pyramidal tract does not seem to exist: the whole pyramid crosses over to the opposite side of the cord in the shape of the crossed pyramidal tract. As we have noted, the decussating pyramidal bundles pass through the anterior horn of gray matter of the cord, and cut it into two portions (Fig. 336, B). The basal part remains in position on the anterior and lateral aspect of the central canal, and forms part of the.thick layer of gray matter which surrounds it. The detached head of the anterior horn is set free; and from the large multipolar cells which lie in its midst some of the fibres of the anterior root of the first cervical nerve, and also some of the root fibres of the spinal accessory nerve, take origin. On proceeding up into the medulla an- ' the medullated tracts oAbres are black. ' other effect of the decussation of the pyramids is seen in the submergence from the surface of the strand of fibres which, in the anterior column of the cord, lies to the outer side of the direct pyramidal Gracile nucleus racilis _ Spinal root of ■I'^tA fifth nerve Decussation of pyramid; Detached head of anterior cornu Anterior basis- bundle Antero-median fuiTow Fig. 337.—Tkansveuse Section through Lower End of the Medulla OF A Full-time F(etus,