THE UTERUS. 1133 coat is firmer and more fibrous than in the body, and its surface is not smooth, but presents a number of peculiarly disposed ridges, which have been already described. Like the mucous membrane of the body of the uterus, that of the cervix is covered by a ciliated epithelium which passes into squamous epithelium just inside the external os uteri. The cervix utei'i possesses, in addition to luibranched tubular glands, resembling those present in the body, numerous somewhat branched glands (glandulse cervicales uteri). Both kinds of glands are lined by ciliated epithelium. In many cases little clear re- tention cysts, ovules of Naboth, are to be seen in the cervical mucous membrane, which arise as a result of obstruction at the mouths of the glands. Difference in the Uterus at Different Ages.—At lirth the cervix uteri is relatively larger than in the adult organ, and its cavity is not distinctly marked off from the interior of the body by an internal os uteri. At this time also the arbor vitte extends throughout the whole length of the uterus. The organ grows slowly until just before puberty, when its growth is rapid for a time. As the body increases in size the mucous membrane becomes smooth and the arbor vitae becomes restricted to the cervix. In women who have borne children the cavity remains permanently somewhat wider and larger than in cases where the uterus has never been pregnant. In old age the uterine wall becomes harder and has a paler colour than it possesses in the young subject. Variations.—In rare cases the uterus may be divided by a septum into two distinct cavities, or its lateral angles may be i^roduced into straight or curved processes, called " horns " or cornua. The latter abnormality recalls the appearance of the bicormiate uteri of some animals. Both the above conditions arise from an arrest in the fusion of the two separate tubes—the Mitllerian ducts—which normally unite to form the uterus. Periodic Changes in the Uterine Wall.—At each menstrual period a remark- able series of changes occurs which results in the periodic shedding of the super- ficial parts of the uterine mucous meml)rane. For a few days before menstruation begins, the mucous membrane gradually thickens and becomes more vascular, while at the same time its surface becomes uneven. Soon the superficial parts of the mucous membrane disintegrate and haemorrhage takes place from the small super- ficial blood-vessels. In this way a hsemorrhagic discharge is caused, and the superficial parts of the uterine mucous membrane are shed at each period. When menstruation is over the mucous membrane is rapidly regenerated. Pregnant Uterus.-—The pregnant uterus increases rapidly in size and weight, so that from lieing three inches in length and one ounce in weight, it becomes by the eighth month about seven or eight inches in length and sometimes as much as two pounds in weight. In shape the uterus is now oval or rounded, with a thick wall composed chiefly of muscle fibres arranged in distinct layers. The rounded fundus is very prominent. The round ligaments are stronger and better marked, and the layers of the broad ligament become separated in their inner parts by the growth of the uterus between them.' The blood-vessels, especially the arteries, are very large and tortuous. The changes which occur in the mucous membrane of the pregnant uterus are intimately connected with the manner in which the developing foetus receives its nutrition, and have been noticed on p. 51. Vessels and Nerves of the Uterus.—The uterus receives its arterial supply from the uterine arteries, which are branches of the internal iliac arteries, and also from the ovarian arteries, branches of the aorta. The vessels derived from these two sources communicate freely with one another. Each uterine artery, reaching the side of the lower part of the uterus, divides into a large branch which passes upwards to supply the body and fundus, and a much smaller branch which passes downwards to supi)ly the cervix. The vessels distributed to the body and fundus have an exceedingly tortuous course. The branches of the uterine artery, having entered the nuiscular coat, break up within its deejjer layers into snuiUer twigs which supply the muscular tissue and the mucous coat. The small uterine branch from the ovarian artery reaches the uterus in the regioii of the lateral angle. During pregnancy the arteries become enormously enlarged. The thin walled veins form a plexus which pours its Ijlood into the triljutaries of the internal iliac vein. The nerves of the uterus are derived chiefly from a plexus placed in the neighbourhood of the cervix uteri, to which the term cervical ganglion or plexus utero-vaginalis is applied. Superiorly this plexus is continuous with the hypogastric plexus, but it also receives fibres from