528 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. in the form of a delicate baud, which crosses the surface of the recurved part of the uncus in a transverse direction, thereby constituting the frenulum Giacomini. The dentate fissure is a complete fissure, and the elevation on the ventricular wall which corresponds to it is called the hippocampus major. It begins behind the splenium of the corpus callosum, where it is continuous with a shallow part of the callosal fissure, and it proceeds forwards between the gyrus dentatus and the hippocampal convolution. Its anterior end is enclosed within the uncus. When coronal section.s are made through the callosal part of the limbic lobe and the subjacent corpus callosum, the cortical gray matter is seen to be reflected from the bottom of the callosal fi-ssiu-e in the form of an exceedingly fine layei', which forms a thin coating for the upper surface of the corpus callosum. In the midst of this certain delicate strands f)f longitudinal filjres, the striae longitudinales, are embedded, and, with the gray matter associated with them, they re- present an aborted or vestigial convolution, termed the gyrus supracallosus. This gyrus is con- tinuous with the gyrus dentatus round the hinder margin of the corjjus callosum. Olfactory Lobe.—The olfactory lobe is small and rudimentary in the human brain. It is described l>y His as consisting of a posterior lobule, which ma}' be said to correspond with that part of the hemisphere which is named the locus perforatus anticus, and an anterior lobule, composed of: (1) the olfactory bulb and tract, with the two roots of the latter ; (2) the trigonum olfactorium ; and (3) the area of Broca. The olfactory tract is a narrow, white, prismatic band, which expands anteriorly into a swollen bulbous extremity, termed the olfactory bulb. Both the tract and the bulb lie upon the olfactory sulcus on the orbital surface of the frontal lobe, whilst the inferior surface of the bulb rests on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and receives the numerous olfactory nerves which reach it through the foramina in that part of the cranial floor. Posteriorly, the olfactory tract divides into two diverging roots. The mesial root curves al)ruptly inwards behind the area of Broca, into whicli some of its fibres pass, and is continued into the extremity of the callosal gyrus. ThQ lateral root runs backwards and outwards over the outer part of the locus perforatus anticils, and gradually disappears from view. In animals, in which the olfactory apparatus is better developed than in man, it may be traced into the uncinate extremity of the hippocampal convolution (Fig. 325, p. 439). The trigonum olfactorium or olfactory tubercle is the small triangular field of gray matter which occupies the interval between the roots of the olfactory tract at the point where they begin to diverge. Some fibres from the posterior end of the olfactory tract enter the trigonum, and, in certain cases, these constitute a more or less distinct middle root. The area of Broca lies in front of the curved mesial root of the olfactory tract, and is continuous witli the commencement of the callosal gyrus. Rhinencephalon and Pallium.—The cerebral hemisjjhere is composed of two naturally dis- tinct parts—the rhinencephalon and the pallium—in addition to the corpus striatiun. The rhinencephalon consists of the olfactory bulb and its peduncle, together with the anterior perforated space and anterior part of the uncinate gyrus, the gyrus subcallosus, septum lucidum, and hi])po- cami)us with its ndnexa. The pallium includes the rest of the hemisphere, exclusive of the corpus striatum (Elliot Smith). There can be little doubt that the gyrus supracallosus represents a wasted portion of the hippocampus. In monotremes and marsupials the hi^jpocampus occupies a corresponding position, but, with the greater development of the corjms callosum in higher mammals, atrophy and stretch- ing occur, and the structure is reduced to a vestigial condition (Elliot Smith). In their phylogenetic evolution the rhinencephalon and the palliiuu apjjear to develop more or less independently of each other. In certain cases the former atrophies, whilst the pallium attains a high degree of development (e.g. man, monkey, whale, etc.); in others the reverse development occurs (e.g. the hedgehog and many other animals), in which the rhinencephalon forms a large part of the hemisphere and the pallium is relatively small. Corpus Callosum, Septum Lucidum, and Fornix. Corpus Callosum. — This is the great transverse commissure which passes between the two cerebral hemispheres. It is placed nearer the anterior than the posterior aspect of the brain, and it unites the inner surfaces of the hemispheres throughout very nearly a half of their antero-posterior length. The corpus callosum