THE VASCULAK SYSTEM. 806 the gluteus maximus, wliilst others pass through it, near its origin, to the overlying skin. The branches freely anastomose with branches of the sciatic, internal pudic, internal circumflex, deep circumflex iliac, and lateral sacral artei'ies. (b) The deep terminal branch, accompanied by the superior gluteal nerve, runs forwards between the gluteus medius and minimus, and, after giving a nutrient branch to the ilium, immediately subdivides into upper and lower branches. The upper branch, running forwards along the oi-igin of the gluteus minimus from the middle curved line of the ilium, passes beyond the anterior margins of the gluteus medius and minimus to anasto- mose, under cover of the tensor fascia femoris, with the ascending branch of the external circumflex artery. It also anastomoses witii the circumflex iliac arterj^, and it supplies muscular branches to the adjacent muscles. The lotver branch passes more directly forwards, across the gluteus minimus, towards the trochanter major, along with the branch of the superior gluteal nerve which supplies the tensor fascite femoris. It supplies the glutei muscles, and anastomoses with the ascending branch of the external circumflex artery. Before leaving the pelvis the gluteal artery gives muscular branches to the pelvic diaphragm and the obturator internus, small neural branches to the roots of the sacral plexus, and nutrient branches to the hip-bone. Branches of the Anterior Division of the Internal Iliac Artery. The anterior division gives off. both parietal and visceral branches, and is continued as the hypogastric artery, which for the greater part of its extent is obliterated. The parietal branches are the obturator, the pudic, and the sciatic. The visceral branches include the superior, middle and inferior vesical, and the middle haemorrhoidal arteries in the male. Similar visceral branches are also given off in the female, but the inferior vesical is replaced by the vaginal artery, and an additional branch, the uterine artery, is also given off. Visceral Branches. 1. The superior vesical artery (a. vesicalis superior) arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac. It divides into numerous branches which supply the upper part of the bladder, anastomosing with the other vesical arteries, and it also gives small branches to the urachus, and often to the lower part of the ureter. It may in addition give off the middle vesical artery, and not un- frequently the long slender artery to the vas deferens arises from one of its branches. 2. Obliterated Hypogastric Artery.—Atrophy of that portion of the internal iliac artery, which extends from the side of the bladder to the umbilicus (a. umbili- calis), has already been referred to. It is complete between the umbilicus and the true origin of the superior vesical artery, but between this origin and the apparent ending of the internal iliac in its two divisions the atrophy is incomplete, and the lumen of the vessel, though greatly diminished in size, remains, and is looked upon as the first part of the superior vesical artery. Strictly speaking, the first of these two parts only constitutes the " obliterated hypogastric " (ligamentum umbilicale laterale). It is a fibrous cord which runs forwards and iipwards towards the apex of the bladder, whence it ascends on the posterior surface of the anterior alidominal wall and on the outer side of the urachus to the umbilicus. As it passes along the wall of the pelvis" it is under cover of the peritoneum, and it is crossed by the vas deferens in the male, and by the round ligament in the female. 3. The middle vesical artery is usually given ofl' behind the superior vesical. It is distributed to the posterior surface of the bladder as low down as the base; and to the vesiculae seminales. 4. The inferior vesical artery (a. vesicalis inferior) is a very constant branch which runs inwards upon the upper surface of the levator ani to the base of the bladder. It also gives branches to the seminal vesicles, the vas deferens, the lower part of the ureter and the prostate, and it anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, with the other vesical arteries, and with the middle hfemorrhoidal artery.