960 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. closely to tlio styloid process. Tims the recess is three-sided (Fig. 646), the third side corresponding to the parotid fascia covering the gland. Into this parotid recess the greater part of the parotid gland fits closely. From its anterior part, however, the variably-developed facial process is continued forward over the masseter muscle. Parotid Fascia.—The parotid recess is covered over on the one hand, and lined on ttie other, by fascia. The covering layer is specially known as the ^^arotid fascia, and botii it and the lining layer are derived from the deep cervical fascia, which divides below to enclose the gland. The parotid fascia proper is connected above to the zygoma ; behind, to the auditory meatus and anterior border of the sterno-mastoid ; below, it is continuous with the deep cervical fascia, and in front it jiasses forwards over the masseter, and joins the fascia of that muscle. The layer of fascia beneath the gland forms a lining for the recess, and is united above to the periosteum over the auditory meatus and back part of the glenoid fossa ; internally it is connected to the styloid process; whilst below it joins the deep .cervical fascia. Taken together, the two layers form a definite capsule which completely encloses the gland. in connexion with tlie lower and anterior part of thi^ capsule is developed a special flat band, tiic stylo-mandibular liga ment, which passes downwards and out- wards from the styloid process to the angle of the jaw. It separates tiie anterior part of the parotid gland from the back of the internal pterygoid muscle ; pcr- liaps occasionally, also, from the upper and posterior part of the snbma.xillarv gland. StHMSon's duct ()riHce of duct I'arotid f,'laiid iMasspter (cut) MiU'OUs nicnibi'aiin (cut) Dec]) ])rocf'SS ot subiiiaxillary ;,'laud Mylohvoid niu^clf (cut) SuliuiaxiUary ^laud Lower border of inaudible Mylohyoid muscle — Auterior belly of digastric Hyoid boue^ Fig. 64 I Uarlliolin (rare) Wharton's duct Uuct of subliui^ual gland .Std)lingual glaud ANDS .\NU THKUt DUCTS The greater portiou of the body of the mandible ha.s been removed to e.xpose the sulilingual auil the deeper parts of tlie submaxilhary glands. Four ducts of tlie sublingual glaud are shown opening on the Hoor of tlie mouth over the SurfaCSS gland, a hfth is shown opening into the anterior end of Wharton's duct. ^(^.Jfj^^ The course of Wharton's duct is shown by a dotted line. ' Shape and. Rela- tions of the Parotid Gland. — Like the recess in which it lies, the main mass of the parotid glanil is three - sided (Fig. C46), the three ')eing super- anterior, and posterior. The superficial surface is closely covered ijy tlie parotid fascia, and its lower part is also crossed by the highest fibres of tlie platysma. The cmteriur surface, approximately flat, lies iu contact with the wide posterior surface of the in- ternal pterygoid muscle ; it is also related to the posterior border of the mandible and the masseter muscle, whilst from its superficial part the facial process is continued forwards over that muscle. The posterior surface lies from without inwards against (1) the antericjr border of the sterno-mastoid and the auditory meatus, (2) the posterior lielly of the digastric and the occipital artery, and (:3) the spinal accessory nerve and carotid sheath—the internal jugular vein within the sheath Toeing iu very close relation. The inner angle formed by the meeting of the anterior and posterior surfaces corresponds to the styloid process and the styloid muscles (Fig. 646). Above, the gland is limited superficially by the zygoma; more deeply a thin process runs up into the posterior part of the glenoid