THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM, 956 liyoglossal meiiibrane) which is united to the upper border of the liyoid boue, and gives attachment to the posterior fibres of tlie genioglossus. From the sides of the septum tlie transverse fibres of the tongue arise. The mucous membrane on the anterior two-thirds uf the dorsum, and on tlie free margins, is firm and closely adherent to th© underlying muscular substance, the fibres of which arc inserted into it. On the posterior third of the dorsum, and on the inferior surface, it is neither so firm nor so closely united to the muscular substance, from which it is separated in both of these situations by a layer of submucous tissue. The mucous membrane of the tongue, like that of the rest of tlie mouth, is covered by stratified squamous epithelium. Glands of the Tongue.—Numerous small racemose glands arc found scattered beneath the inucous niemljraue of the posterior third of the tongue ; and a small collection of similar glands is present at the margin, opposite the circunivallate papilla'. Small serous glands are also foimd embedded in the dorsum near the circunivallate ]ia])illa', into the fossa' of which their ducts open (Fig. 642). The chief collections of glandidar tissue in the tongue, however, are found embedded in the nuiscle of the under surface, a little way behind the apex, on each side of the middle line (Fig. 643). They are known as the apical glands (glanduhe linguales anteriores of Nulm or Blandin). These apical glands are disjilayed l)v removing the mucous membrane and also a layer of Fic. Gii.—A, Tr.vnsverse, anu B, I^oNcrruDiNAi- V'ertical Section through the Tongue (Krau.se) ; C, A Lymphoid Follici.k kho.m Back Part op Tonc;ue (Macalister, slightly modified). muscular fibres (derived from the miited inferior lingualis and styloglossus) about 2 mm. in thickness from the under Surface of the tongue a little distance liehind the ajiex. They are oval in sha])e, often partly broken up by nuiscular fibres, and they measure from i to | in. (12 to 19 mm.) in length. Tliey are mixed serous and mucous glands, and they open by three or foui' very small ducts on the inferior surface of the tongue. Vessels.—The chief arfi'vij is the lingual. This vessel passes forwards on each side beneath the hyoglossus muscle, and then is continued on to the a])ex—between the genioglossus on the inner side and the inferior lingualis externally—under the name of the ranine artery. Anteriorly it is covered by the fil>res of the inferir)r lingualis, and lies ^ to j inch from the surface. Near the a])ex the arteries of opjjosite sides are connected by a l)rancli which pierces the septum, hut otiierwise, with the exception of ca])illary anastomosis, they do not communicate. The dorsalis' linguae branch of the lingual is distriliuted to the pliai'vngeal part of the tongue, whilst some f w igs of the tonsillar branch of the facial are also distributed in the same region. The iv'?'j(.s are : the ranine, the chief vein, which lies beneath the" mucous inemljrane at the side of the frenum, and runs backwards over the hyoglo.ssus nniscle w ith the h^-jioglossal nerve ; two vense comites, which accomjiany the lingual artery ; and a dorsalis linguse vein from the back of the tongue. These either unite and form a common trunk, nr o]ien separately into the internal jugular vein. Nerves.—The nerves which supjdy the tongue are : (1) The hypoglossal, the motor nerve of the tongue, which enters the genioglo.'^sus and passes up in its substance to the intrinsic muscles, in wdiich it ends. (2) The lingual, a branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, which is accom- panied by the chorda tympani branch of the facial. The lingual, after crossing the hyoglossus muscle, breaks up and enters the inferior lingualis and genioglossus, and thus makes its way uj)vvards to the mucous membrane of the anterior two-thirds of the tongue—the lingual itself coiif'efi'ing common sensation on this ])art, the chorda tympani proliably carrying to it lasti'