545 THE OLFACTORY TRACT AND BULB. surface, and, entering into the stratum zonale, divides into terminal filaments, which spread out in the tangential interlacement characteristic of this layer. Nerve Fibres.—The arrangement of the nerve-fibres can best be studied in vertical sections through the gray cortex, which have been specially treated with this end in view. In such preparations bundles of nerve-fibres are seen to radiate into the gray cortex from the surface of the white centre of the gyrus. As these pi'oceed through the polymorphic layer into the layer of large jjyramidal cells, they gradually become less distinct, and, finally, they disperse and are lost to view before they reach the layer of small pyramidal cells. In the intervals between the radiating bundles the polymorphic and large pyramidal cells are arranged in columns, and in the same intervals an open feltwork of intercrossing fibres is evident. After the radiating fibre-bundles have dis- appeared the same feltwork of fibres is visible in the gray matter, and consequently it is convenient to distinguish, wath Edinger, an inter-radial feltwork and a supra-radial felt- work of fibres in the cortex. The fibres which enter into the composition of the different radial bundles vary in number from ten to twenty, and they gradually diminish in number as they proceed onwards. This diminution is due to their joining the various cells that they meet (both polymorphic and pyramidal) as their axons. The fibres in a given bundle also vary much in size, and it may be noticed that the largest fibres disappear in the vicinity of the large pyramidal cells, which shows clearly that it is with these that they are connected. But, in addition to cell-axons, the radial bundles contain fibres of an altogether difi^erent type, viz. corticipetal fibres, which pass through all the layers of the cortex and end in fine terminal filaments in the tangential interlacement of the stratum zonale. The inter-radial and supra-radial feltwork is largely formed of the collaterals which issue from the axons. By a condensation of this feltwork the two bands of Baillarger are formed. The outer band, which is the broader and better marked, occurs in the deeper part of the layer of the large pyranndal cells. The inner band, when present, is formed in the superficial part of the layer of polymorphic cells. Another condensation of the fibre-feltwork in the superficial part of the supra-radial region may be noted in certain localities. This is termed the band of Bechterew. It has been noted that up to a certain point the tangential fibres increase in quantity as age advances, and there is reason to believe that upon the richness with which the gray cortex is supplied with fibres—more especially of the tangential variety—depends to some extent the intellectual capacity of an individual. Whilst the general mass of the cortex for the most part conforms more or less closely to the ground-type described above, showing merely deviations characteristic of the different regions, there is one part of the cortex, viz. the cornu amnion is and the fascia dentata, in which the structural arrangement of the elements is very markedly different. To some extent this is due to the complicated manner in which, in this region, the cortex is folded upon itself. The Olfact'ory Tract and Bulb. growth The olfactory tract and bulb arise as a hollow out- from the jjrimitive cerebral vesicle. In many animals with a well-developed olfactory apparatus, the tract and bulb remain hollow; but in man the central cavity becomes obliterated, although traces of the original hollow persist in the shape of ependymal remains, visible in the centre of both tract and bulb. Outside these ependymal elements is a coating of white matter, upon which is laid the gray matter. The gray matter, however, is by no means uniformly distributed over the surface. In the tract, except along the dorsal edge, it is so thinly spread that it is hardly appreciable. In the bulb, on the other hand, there is very little gray matter on the dorsum, but a considerable quantity on the ventral surface ; and it is into this that the delicate nerves which enter the cranium through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone sink. A brief description of the structure of this infrabulbar mass of gray matter, as well as of the connexions established by its elements, now becomes necessary. CRIBRIFORM PLATE OLFACTORY MUCOUS 11 I I 11 I M MEMBRANE Fig. 406.—Diagram of the Minute Structure of the Olkactory Bulb.