954 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Fuiigiibrni pajjilla Conic Conical and fiingifbrni papill; Spconilarv papilla' Tast.' biuls Tlie fungiform papillae (Fig. 642) are larger aud redder, Imt less numerous than llie last variet}', and they are found chiefly neax thi; tip and margins of tlie tongue, eoniparatively few l)eing yu'esent over the dorsum generally. Each, is in shape like a " pufi-hall " fungus (HaJliliurton), consisting of an enlarged rounded head, attached hy a somewhat narrower hase. As in the case of the conical papilhe, the corium is studded over with microscopic papill*, wliich are l)urie(l in the covering of squamous epithelium and do not appear on the surface. Most of the fungiform pa,pill?e, if not all, appear to l)e furnished witli taste-buds, and they are ])rohalily intimately connectecl with the sense of taste. The circumvallate papillae (Fig. 642), i)y much tlu; largest of all the papillae of the tongue, are confined to the region immediatel}' in front of the sulcus terminalis and foramen ca;cum. Usually al)out ten in number, they are arranged in the form of the letter V, with the apex backwards, just in front of and parallel to the sulcus ter- minalis. One or two of the papilhe are usually placed at tlie apex, of the V, immediately anterior to tlie foramen caecum. In appearance a circumvallate papilla resembles very closely the impression left l)y press- ing the liarrel of a small pen on soft wax (Fig. 641). Each is composed of a cylindrical central part (1 to 2-5 mm. wide), slightly tapering towards its base, and flattened on its crown, which projects a little above the general surface of the tongue. This is surrounded l)y a deep, narrow, circular trench or fossa, the outer wail of which is known as the vallum. The vallum appears in the form of an encircling collar very slightly raised above the adjacent surface (Fig. 640). As in the case of the otlier forms, the circumvallate papillaj are made up of a central mass of corium, lieset with numerous microscopic" papillte on the crowns, but not on the sides, and covered over, as are the surfaces of the fossa and vallum, by stratified squamous epithelium. Into the fossfe open tlie ducts of some small serous glands (Fig. 642). On the sides of the circumvallate papilla3, as well as upon the opposed surface of the vallum, are found, in considerable numbers, tlie structures known as taste buds, the special end-organs of the nerves of taste. The apex (apex linguie), and the margin (margo lateralis) of the tongue in front of the attachment of the anterior palatine ai'ch, are free, and lie in contact with the teeth when the tongue is at rest. On the upper half or more'of the margin aud apex, papilhe are present as on the-dorsum ; l)Ut on the lower part they are absent, and tlie surface is covei'ed by smooth mucous mem))raiu'. Just in front of the anterior palatine arch, on the margin, are usually'seen about tive or si.\ distinct vertical folds, forming the folia linguae, whicli are beset with taste-buds, aud corresjKHid to a well-defined area (the papilla" foliata^ on the side of the tongue in certain animals (rabbit, hare, etc.), in which it forms an important part of the organ of taste. The inferior surface (facies inferior) of the tongue, which is exposed l)y turning the apex of the organ upwards, is limited in extent (Fig. 643), and is free i'rom visilde payullte, the surface being covered by a smooth mucous meml)rane. Eunniiig A ciicunivallati' papilla. Xl2. Fio. 642.—The PAPn.i.iE of Toncue. The upper illustration shows conical and fungifonu papilhe, the lower a circumvallate papilla. C. Corium, and B. Epithelium of the mucous membrane. The wavy dark lines represent arteries.