404 THE MUSCULAK SYSTEM. of the pubis. The front wall of the canal is formed by the aponeurosis of the obHquus externus, and in its outer part by the muscular fibres of the obliquus internus; the hack wall of the canal is formed by the fascia transversalis, and in its inner part by the conjoint tendon; while the floor of the canal is formed by Poupart's ligament, and in its inner part by Gimbernat's ligament. The spermatic cord enters the canal, after piercing the transversalis fascia, at the internal Vena caval opening Q3snplia.spal opening Central tendon (middle part) Central tendon (right part) Diaphragm, costal fibres Internal arcuate ligament External arcuate ligament End of last rib Last thoracic nerve Ant. layer of lumbar fascia Lumbar fascia nio-hypogastric Lumbar vessels and sympa- thetic communicating nerves Ilioinguinal QUADRATUS LVMBORUM External cutaneous nerve Psoas magnus f ILIACUS Lumbo-sacral cord Genito-erural nerve Anterior, crural nerve Obturator nerve Great sciatic nerve Diaphragm, right crus Middle arcuate ligament Aortic opening Central tendon (left part) Diaphragm, left CRUS TTTT—Last thoracic nerve iLLL ^End of last rib Lumbar nerve I. — llio-hypogastric Lumbar nerve II. —.Ilio-inguinal Quadratus lA'MBORUM Lumbar nerve III. Genito-crural Lumbar nerve IV. Lumbo-sacral cord Kxternal cutaneous nerve \nterior crural nerve Obturator nerve Great sciatic nerve I Obturator nerve Adductor longus (origin) Adductor brevi.s (origin) Gracilis (origin) Adductor magnus (origin) Pf.ctineus (cut) Superficial branch of obturator nerve Deep branch of obturator nerve Obturator externus Fig. 299. -View of the Posterior Abdominal Wall, to show the Muscles and the' Nerves of THE Lu.mbo-Sacral Plexus. abdominal ring, and is there invested by its first envelo^^e, the infundibuliform fascia, derived from the margin of the ring (fascia transversalis). It then passes obliquely inwards, downwards, and forwards, below the lower border of the obliquus internus muscle, from which it carries off a second investment, partly fascial, partly muscular —the cremasteric fascia. Continuing its course in front of the conjoint tendon, it emerges through the external abdominal ring, from the edges of which the intercolumnar fascia is derived, the third or external investment for the cord.