870 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. the outer and inner borders of the foot and join the dorsal plexus, whilst others pass up the leg with the efferent vessels from the dorsal plexus. The efferent vessels from the dorsal lymphatic plexus of the foot form two groups, an inner and an outer. The inner vessels are the more numerous, and they are joined by additional vessels from the inner part of the sole and heel. Some of them pass upwards in front of and others behind the internal malleolus; in the leg they accompany tlie internal saphenous vein, and they terminate in the lower or femoral set of superficial glands. The outer group of vessels is reinforced by tributaries from the outer side of the sole and heel, most of the vessels of this group pass upwards in front of the external malleolus, but some go behind that prominence of bone ; they gradually turn inwards as they ascend, and, passing across the front of the leg, they join the internal group, being first reinforced by numerous additional vessels from the front and outer side of the leg, and they terminate witli the vessels of the inner group in the superficial femoral glands. A few vessels of the outer group, and one or two large vessels which rise from the back of the heel and the lower part of the leg, ascend along the external saphenous vein, pierce the popliteal fascia, and terminate in the popliteal glands. The superficial lymphatic vessels from the front, the lower and outer, lower and inner, and the back parts of the thigh and knee, terminate in the superficial femoral glands. The vessels from the upper and outer parts of the thigh and from the buttock end in the superficial inguinal glands, and those from the upper portions of the inner and back parts of the thigh in the superficial pubic glands. (2) Deep Vessels.—The deep lymphatics of the lower extremity commence in the bones, periosteum, ligaments, muscles, and deep connective tissue. They follow the main arteries, and they terminate in the anterior tibial, popliteal, and deep femoral glands. The vessels which terminate in the anterior tiljial gland have already been mentioned. The majority of the deep vessels from the sole accompany the plantar arteries; they ascend in the leg along the posterior til)ial vessels, and are joined by the deep lymphatics of the back of the leg which accompany the peroneal and posterior tibial arteries. At the lower border of the popliteus the deep vessels of the back of the leg meet the efferent vessels from the anterior tibial gland and ascend with them to the pophteal glands. The deep lymphatics of the front of the thigh and the efferents of the popliteal glands end in the deep femoral glands; those of the upper part of the back of the thigh and buttock accompany the sciatic and gluteal vessels, and terminate in the internal iliac glands; the deep vessels wliich originate amidst the upper portions of the adductor muscles and their surroundings accompany the obturator vessels, and terminate in the obturator or in the internal iliac glands. THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS AND VESSELS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. The superficial lymphatics of the abdominal wall have already been sufficiently referred to as afferent vessels of the axillary glands and of the superficial glands of the groin. Deep Lymphatic Glands and Vessels.—The lymphatic glands of the abdomen and pelvis are arranged in two main groups, (1) the visceral glands and (2) the parietal glands. The visceral glands lie in close relation with the walls of the viscera or in the folds of peritoneum, by which the viscera are either connected together or attached to the walls of the abdomen (»r pelvis; they receive the majority of the lymphatic vessels from the viscera with wliich they are associated. The parietal glands lie between the peritoneum and the walls of the abdomen and pelvis; they receive deep vessels from the abdominal and pelvic parietes, and from the deep parts of the thigh and buttock. They also receive efferent lymphatics