THE CEEEBELLAR PEDUNCLES. 471 Mesen- cephalon Inferior olivary nucleu; Fig. 350.—Sagittal Section through this Left Lateral Hemisphere THE Cerebellum, Showing the "arbor vitse " and the corpus dentatum. the general direction of its fissures and folia, a higlily arborescent appearance is thus presented by the cut surface. To this the term arbor vitse cerebelli is applied. Corpus Dentatum and other Gray Nuclei in the White Matter of the Cerebellum.—Embedded in the midst of the mass of white matter which forms the central core of each lateral hemisphere there is an isolated nucleus of gray matter, which presents a Cuhnen u.onticuli strong resem- blance to the in- ferior olivary nucleus of the medulla. It is called the corpus dentatum (nucleus dentatus), and it consists of a corrugated or plicated lamina of gray matter, which is folded on itself so as to enclose, in a flask- like manner, a portion of the central white matter. This gray capsule is not completely closed. It presents an open mouth, termed the hilum, whicli is directed inwards and upwards, and out of this stream the great majority of the fibres of the superior cerebellar peduncle. Three small additional masses of gray matter are also present on either side of the mesial plane in the central white matter of the cerebellum. These are termed the nucleus emboli- formis, the nucleus globosus, and the nucleus fastigii. The nucleus emboliformis or embolus is a small lamina of gray matter Avhich lies immediately internal to the hilum of the corpus dentatum, being thus related to it somewhat in the same manner that the mesial accessory olivary nucleus is related to the main inferior olivary nucleus. The nucleus globosus lies internal to the embolus and on a somewhat deeper horizontal plane. The nucleus fastigii or roof nucleus is placed in the white substance of the worm (corjjus trapezoides) close to the mesial plane and its fellow of the opposite side. It is, therefore, situated on the mesial aspect of the nucleus globosus. Although isolated from the gray matter of the surface, these small nuclei and the corpus dentatum are connected at certain points with each other. The corpus dentatum and the embolus present a structure very similar to that of the inferior olivary nucleus. In the nucleus globosus and the nvicleus fastigii the cells are somewhat larger in size. Cerebellar Peduncles.—These are three in nmnber on each side, viz. the middle, the inferior, and the superior. The fibres of which they are composed all enter or emerge from the white medullary centre of the cerebellum. The middle peduncle is much the laigest of the three, and has already been described on pp. 450 and 462. It is formed by the transverse fibres of the pons, and it enters the cerebellar hemisphere on the outer aspect of the other two peduncles. The lips of the anterior part of the great horizontal fissure are separated widely from each other to give it admission. Within the cerebellar hemisphere its fibres are distributed in two great bundles. Of these, one, com- posed of the upper transverse fibres of the pons, radiates out in the lower part of the hemisphere; whilst the other, consisting of the lower transverse fibres of the pons, spreads out in the upper part of the hemisphere. - , The inferior peduncle is simply the restiform body of the medulla. - After leaving the medulla it ascends for a short distance on the dorsal surface of the pons and then turns sharply backwards, to enter the cerebellum between the other two peduncles. 'The superior peduncle, as it issues _froin the cerebellum, lies close to the inner side of the middle peduncle (Fig. 349). Its further course upwards on the dorsum of the pons to the inferior quadrigeminal body has been previously described (p. 451). -The fibres of the middle Connexions established by the Peduncular Fibres.- 30 a-