THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 546 The fibres of the delicate olfactory nerves are to be regarded as the axons of the olfactory cells of the olfactory mucous membrane. They enter the ventral surface of the olfactory bulb, and there each breaks up in an arborescent fashion into a tuft of terminal filaments. A thick dendrite from a mitral cell of the bulb passes down towards this terminal tuft, and, coming into contact with it, breaks up and terminates in a similar manner. In this way a large number of globular bodies, formed by the arborescent terminations of a mitral dendrite and of certain olfactory nerve-fibres, are formed. These are the olfactory glomeruli of the bulb. The mitral cells lie deeper in the olfactory bulb. Each gives off several dendrites and one axon. Only one dendrite enters into the formation of a glomerulus, but several nerve-fibres may be connected with such a body. It thus happens tliat, through its dendrite, a mitral cell may stand in connexion with several olfactory nerve-fibres. The axon of the mitral cell passes upwards to the white matter of the bulb, enters this, and is conducted through the tract towards the cerebral cortex. White Medullary Centre of the Cerebral Hemisphere. The white matter of the hemisphere which lies subjacent to the gray cortex is composed of medullated nerve-fibres, arranged in a very intricate manner. Accord- ing to the connexions which they establish these fibres may be classified into three distinct groups, viz. (1) commissural fibres; (2) association fibres; and (3) projec- tion fibres. Commissural Fibres.—These are fibres which link together portions of the gray cortex of opposite cerebral hemispheres. They are arranged in three groups forming three definite structures, viz. the corpus callosum, the anterior commissure, and the psalterium or the hippocampal commissure. The corpus callosum has in a great measure been already studied (p. 528). As it enters each hemisphere, its fibres spread out in an extensive radiation (the radia- tion of the corpus callosum). It thus comes about that every part of the cerebral cortex, with the exception of the bulbus olfactorii and the under and fore part of the temporal lobe, is reached by the callosal fibres. But it should be clearly under- stood that all the regions of the cortex do not receive an equal proportion of fibres; in other words, some cortical areas would appear to be more plentifully supplied than others. Another point of some importance consists in the fact that the callosal fibres do not, as a rule, connect together symmetrical portions of the gray cortex. As the fibres cross the mesial plane they become greatly scattered, so that most dissimilar parts of the cortex of opposite hemispheres come to be associated with each other. Each callosal fibre arises in one hemisphei'e and ends by fine terminal arborisations in the cortex of the opposite hemisphere. It may arise in any one of three ways, viz. '(1) as the axon of one of the cortical cells, either pyramidal or polymoVphic; (2) as the collateral of a fibre of association; (3) as the collateral of a fibre of projection. Many cases have been recorded in which, through congenital defect, the corpus callosum has not been developed. In the description of this structure on p. 528 attention has been called to a layer of callosal fibres which sweep over the j^osterior and descending horns of the lateral ventricle, so as to form the immediate outer wall of the cavity. This layer is called the tapetum, and it has been stated that when the corpus callosum is absent the tapetum is found in a well-developed condition. Further, it has been asserted that in cases where the coi'pus callosum has been experimentally destroyed the tapetum suffered no degeneration (Muratoff). Certain anatomists are, therefore, inclined to argue that the tapetum has little or no connexion with the corpus callosum. This assertion, however, cannot by any means be regarded as being proved. There is a large amount of evidence on the other side. Thus, Mingazzini has seen a case of failure of the corpus callosuni which was accompanied by a corresponding defect in the tapetum, whilst soften- ing of the splenium and the forceps major has been observed by Anton to be accompanied by a secondary degeneration of the tapetum. Further, the recent experimental evidence of Ferrier and Turner would appear to support the older view that the tapetum is associated in the closest manner with the corpus callosum. The anterior commissure (commissura anterior) is a structure supplemental to the corpus callosum. It connects together the two olfactory lobes, and also portions of opposite temporal lobes. It presents a cord-like appearance and is arranged in