THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 654 G.Ph. surrounding the gullet. This part of the oesophagus also receives fibres from the great splanchnic nerve and ganglion. From the oesophageal plexus branches supply the muscular wall and mucous membrane of the oesophagus. Pericardiac branches are also supplied from the plexus to the posterior surface of the pericardium. The Eleventh or Spinal Accessory Nerve. The spinal accessory nerve (n. accessorius) consists of two essentially separate parts, different both in origin and in distriI)ution. One portion is accessory to the vagus nerve, and arises, in series with the fibres of that nerve, from the side of the medulla oblongata. The other, spinal portion, arises from the lateral aspect of the spinal cord, between the ventral and dorsal roots of the spinal nerves, its origin extending from the level of the accessory portion as low as the origin of the sixth cervical nerve (for the deep origin, see p. 477). Successively joining together, the root- lets form a trunk which ascends in the subdural space of the spinal cord, behind the ligamentum denticulatum, to the foramen magnum. There the accessory and spinal portions unite into a single trunk, which leaves the cranial cavity through the jugular foramen in the same com- partment of dura mater as the pneumogastric nerve (Fig. 457, p. 6.3G). In the jugular foramen the accessory portion of the nerve (after furnishing a small liranch to the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric nerve) apphes itself to the ganglion of the trunk, and in part joins the ganglion, in part the trunk of the nerve beyond the ganglion. By means of these connexions the pneumogastric receives viscero-motor and cardio-inhibitory fibres. The spinal portion of the nerve extends into the neck, where at first it lies along with other nerves, in the interval between the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein. Passing obliquely downwards and outwards over the vein, it descends beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, which it suppUes as it pierces it on its Jj^'^ deep surface. After crossing the posterior triangle, the nerve ends by supplying the trapezius muscle on its under surface. The spinal portion of the nerve communicates in three situations with nerves from the cervical plexus— (1) in or beneath the sterno-mastoid, with the branch for the muscle derived from the second cervical nerve; (2) in the posterior triangle, with branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves; (3) l)eneath the trapezius, with the branches for the muscle derived from the third and fourth cervical nerves. Fig. 470.—Scheme of the Origin, Con- nexions, AND DiSTUIBUTION OP THE Spinal Accessory Nerve. Sp.Acc, Spinal accessory nerve ; C.1-4, First four cervical nerves (dorsal roots) ; Va, Pneumogastric nerve ; R, Ganglion of the root; T, Ganglion of the trunk : G.Ph, Glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; S.M, Nerves to steruo-cleido-inastoid ; Nerves to trapezius ; F.M, Foramen magnum ; J.F, Jugular foramen. The Twelfth or Hypoglossal Nerve. The hypoglossal nerve (n. hypoglossus) arises by numerous radicles from the front of the medulla oblongata Ijetween the pyramid and the olive (Fig. 452, p. 633) (for deep origin, see p. 476). The root fibres arrange themselves in two iKindles which separately pierce the dura mater, and unite in th^ anterior condyloid foramen, or after emerging from the skull. In the neck the nerve arches downwards and forwards towards the hyoid bone, and then turns inwards among the supra- hyoid muscles to the tongue. At first it is placed deeply, along with other cranial