1040 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. cm the other liaiul, it may be considerably higher tliau iionual, soiaetiiues being placed at a dis- tanc(! of 4 or 4| inches (lO'O to 11'2 cm.) from the iinus. It should also be added ttiat the level is generally believed to be somewhat raised by distension of the rectum and bladder, and lowered by emptying tliese viscera, although this is denied by Jonnesco. In the child at birth, the peritoneum extends down to the base of the prostate (Symington), and is thus lower in relation to the bladder ; but this may be partly accounted for by the liigli position of this organ in the child. As a rule it will be found that 2 inches (5'0 cm.) of the front of the rectum, exclusive of the anal canal, are entirely free from peritoneum, and it is this and the adjacent portion of the bowel which, being free from the restraining influence of the peritoneum, is most distensible, and is known as the rectal ampulla. Including the anal canal, 3^ inches (8'7 cm.) of the rectum, measured along till', front of the. tube, have no seroTis covering. On the other hand, the back is free from peri- toneum for 5 or 6 inches (12'5 to 15'0 cm.)—or sometimes much more—above the anus. It is also of interest to notice that the connexion of the peritoneum to the rectum varies in its character at different parts :—Above and in front it is closely adherent, and can be removed only with the greatest difficulty ; at the sides and below the connexion is much looser. As a beconfi sacral vertebra bacro-iliac joint / Ending of pelvic iiio.socolon ^ Sacrid iiervt Rectum Pararectal fossa Ureter (cut) Cresceiitie fokl ot lieritoiieum (recto- genital fokl) yCj^i Seminal vesicl beneath tin External iliac ^♦VJ iV vein * ' External iliac artery Deep epigastric artery Ureter Paravesical fossa Plica vesicalis transversa Rectus lliacus External iliac artery Pyramidalis Vas deferens \ Obliterated hypogastric artery Bladder Uraclius Fig. 70-3.—The Peritoneum ok the Pelvic Cavity. The pelvis was sawn across obliquely in a thin male subject aged 60. Owing to the absence of fat the variou.s pelvic organs were visible through the peritoneum, though not quite as distinctly as represented here. The bladder and rectum were both empty and contracted ; the paravesical and pararectal fossa, as a result, were very well marked. result, the jieritoneum can be stripped off the rectum in its lower third or half without much difficulty, whilst in its iqjjjer portion this is not the case—an arrangement which admits of the free expansion of the rectal ampulla. General Relations of the Rectum (Figs. 701 and 702).—Belnnd, the rectum rests on the front of the sacrum and coccyx, and below these upon the posterior part of the pelvic floor—here formed l)y tlie meeting of the two levatores ani in the ano- coccygeal raphe. When much distended it also comes into relation on each side with the lower part of the pyriformis and the sacral plexus. The Iwwel is separated from these structures by a Very considerable amount of connective tissue, arranged (apparently in several layers) around the tube. lit this tissiie the two chief l)ranches of the superior hsemorrhoidal vessels lie behind the upper part of the bowel, but lower down they are placed in relation to its sides. At its sides above are the pararectal fossa; and their contents (pelvic colon, or ileum); below this the rectum is in contact with the coccygei and levatores ani