GENEEAL EMBKYOLOGY. 42 intermedium helicis. The upper tubercle on the hyoid arch is the tuberculum anthelicis, the middle is the tuberculum antitragicum, and the lowest is the tuberculum lobulare. Shortly after the appearance of the tubercles a process, the caudal process, grows backwards and downwards, from the posterior part of the tuberculum intermedium helicis, behind the tuberculum anthelicis and the tuber- culum antitragicum to the tuberculum lobulare, with which it fuses. The tuberculum tragicum remains moie or less distinct, and it forms the prominence called the tragus which lies in front of the concha and external auditory meatus. The two tubercles of the helix and the caudal process unite to form the helix or marginal portion of the pinna; this terminates below in the lobule which is developed from the tul)erculum lobulare. The tuberculum anthelicis and the antihelix and tlie tuberculum antitragicum are the rudiments respectively of the antitragus, and the latter unites below the lower part of the cleft withtherudiment of the tragus, forming the lower boundary of the outer part of the external meatus. It should be noted that in the early stages the tul)erculum an- terius lielicis lies in front of the outer part of the first visceral cleft, but it does not retain this posi- tion in the later stages during whicli the cleft is relatively re- duced in size, and when develop- ment is completed and the outer part of the cleft is transformed into the external audi- tory meatus the commencement of the helix, which is developed from the tuberculum anterius helicis, is situated just above the outer extremity of tlie external meatus. The outer part of the cleft is moulded into the external auditory passage. It remains relatively shallow and devoid of bony boundaries till after birth, but in the subcutaneous tissue round the lower margin of the tympanic membrane an incomplete ring of bone is formed diiring the third month, and at an earlier period, above the upper part of that membrane, the rudiment of the squamous part of the temporal bone appears. To the outer side of the tympanic ring in the subcutaneous tissue of the pinna and tlie outer part of tlie exteinal auditory passage three pieces of cartilage appear, and they afterwards join to form the cartilage of the pinna and the external auditory meatus. After birth the external meatus is deepened, by the outgrowth of the tympanic ring below and of the squamous part of the temporal bone abo\'e, together witli a coincident increase of the outer part of the canal. The tympanic cavity and the Eustachian tube are both formed from the inner part of the first visceral cleft, and consequently they are both lined by entoderm. HAI Fig. 34.—Figdees, Modified from His, Illustrating the Formation of THE Pinna. Tuberculum tragicum = Tragus. 6, anterius helicis " Helix. HM OV, ,, intermedium helicis Cauda helicis Tuberculum anthelicis = Antihelix Tuberculum antitragicum = Anti- tragus. Tuberculum lobulare; Hyo-mandiljular cleft. Otic vesicle. : Lobule.