1034 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Descending Colon (colon desceiKlens).—This is imich narrower and less olitrusive than the ascending- colon. It begins in the left h}'pochondrium at the splenic flexure, passes down on the left side of the alxloineu, and ends in the lumltar region, opposite the crest of the ilium, by passing into the iUac colon. Its course is not (juite straight, for it first curves downwards and inwards along the outer side of the left kidney, and then descends almost vertically to the iliac crest (Fig. 699). Its length is usually from 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 cm.), and its vndth, which is very much less than that of the ascending colon, a])out 1^ inches (37 nun.). Relations.—The descending colon hrst lies in contact with the outer aspect of the left kidney; below this it descends, like the colon of the opposite side, in the angle between the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles. Behind, it rests upon the lower part of the diapliragm above, and on the quadratus lumborum below. In front (and somewhat to the outer side also, except when the l^owel is distended) are placed numerous coils of small intestine, which hide the colon completely from view, and compress it against the posterior abdominal wall in such a way that, at first sight, it may be overlooked in a fat body. To its inner side lies the lower part of the kidney above, the psoas below. In the great majority of bodies only the front and sides of the descending- colon are covered by peritoneum (Fig. 709); the posterior surface, l)eing destitute of a serous coat, is connected to the posterior wall (jf the abdomen by areolar tissue. In a small proportion of cases, on the other hand, the serous coat is com- plete, and the colon is furnished with a shf)rt mesentery. Up to the fourth or fiftli month of f'ajtal life tlie descending colon has a conijdete investment of peritonenni and a long mesentery. After tlie fifth month the mesentery adheres to, and soon blends with, the parietal peritoneum on the posterior ahdominal wall, and is completely lost as a rule. The persistence of this mesentery, in a greater or less degree, explains the occasional jiresence of a descending mesocolon in the adult. Sigmoid Flexure and Rectum.—It has been customary to divide the remaining portion of the large intestine into sigmoid flexure and rectiun. The former was said to begin at the crest of the ilium, to lie in the iliac fossa, and to end at the brim of the pelvis. Or, in later, years, the " sigmoid colon" was described as " that part of the colon which is attached to the left iliac fos-sa, from the iliac crest to the brim of the true pelvis" (Symington). Its upper jiart was .said to be covered by peritoneum on the anterior and lateral surfaces only, its lower part to form a large loop with a comjilete serous coat and a long mesentery, which hung down into the pelvic cavity when the bladder and rectum were emjjty, and passed up out of it when these were distended. The rectum was described as beginning at the brim of the pelvis, opposite the left sacro-iliac joint, and as ending at the anus. It was divided into three portions, of which the first extended from the ))rini of the pelvis to the middle of the third jjiece of the sacrum, had a complete covering of peritoneum, and was connected to the pelvic wall by a mesentery—the mesorectum. The second and third jiarts of the rectum we may pass over for the present, as they agree in general with the description of the rectum given 1)elow. . Treves in 1885, and Jonnesco in 1889, directed attention to the fact that no such loop as the classical sigmoid Hexure, lying in the iliac fossa, was to be found in nature; and also, that the separation of the fii-st portion of the rectum from the sigmoid flexure—so-called—was both artificial and inaccurate. They pointed out that the " first part of the rectum " reaUy belongs to the sigmoid ffexui'e, with which it has e\ierything in common, and that on no grounds can it be properly assigned to the rectum. An unbiassed study of the parts concerned, particularly in bodies the viscei-a of which have been hardened in situ, will leave little doul)t on an unprejudiced mind that the old descriptions are not only artificial but erroneous. Consequently, the admirable account of this part of the intestine, given by Jonnesco, will be followed in its main features in describing the divisions of the bowel heretofore known as the sigmoid tiexure and first part of the rectum. Jonnesco, recognising that this portion of the intestine lies partly in the iliac fossa and partly in the pelvis, very appropriately calls the former the iliac colon and the latter the jielvic colon. The iliac colon includes the portion of the " sigmoid flexure " which extends from the crest of the ilium to the inner side of the jjsoas muscle (that is practically the brim of the l^elvis), and is usually destitute of a mesentery. The pelvic colon embraces the remainder of the "sigmoid colon" ancL the first jiart of the rectum, both of which are attached by a continuous mesentery, and form one large loop lying in the j^elvic cavity, and ending at the level of the third sacral vertebra by passing into the rectum proper. Iliac Colon (colon iliacum).—This corresponds to the portion of the " sigmoid flexu)^^!" which lies in the iliac fossa, and it has no mesentery. It is the direct continuation of the descending colon, with which it agrees in every detail, except as regards its relations. Beginning at the crest of tlie ilium, it passes downwards