126 OSTEOLOGY. Crista "alii process Perpeiulicii- lur plate ate process Maxillary process FiQ; 98.—Showing Articulation of Inferior Turbinated Bone with Ethmoid. walls of the ethmoidal cells. Curving downwards, backwards, and a little out- wards from the roof of the fore part of this meatus is the uncinate process (pro- cessus uiicinatus). This l)ridges across the irregular opening on the inner wall of the maxillary sinus, and articu- lates inferiorly with the eth- moidal process of the inferior turbinated bone. The hinder extremity of the middle turbin- ated bone articulates with the ethmoidal crest on the vertical plate of palate bone. The cribriform plate (lamina cribrosa) is the horizontal lamina which connects the lateral masses with the vertical plate, much in the same manner as the cross limb of a capital T -Lachrymal process ig arranged. It occupics the interval between the orbital plates of the frontal bone, J r • roofing in the nasal fossie in- ,Inferior p turhinateii bone feriorly, and superiorly forming Etimioiaai process either side of the crista galli two shallow olfactory grooves in which, in the recent condition, the olfactory lobes of the cere- brum are lodged. Numerous foramina for the transmission of the olfactory nerves pierce this part of the bone—those to the inner and outer sides of the groove are the largest and most regular in their arrangement. Along the outer edges of the cribriform plate two notches can usually be distinguished; when articulated with the crista gaii frontal bone these form the inner openings of the ethmoidal canals. Leading forward from the anterior of these there is often a groove which crosses to the side of the crista galli, where it ends in a slit, which allows of the transmission of the nasal nerve to the nose. Posteriorly the cribriform plate articulates with the ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid. Connexions.—The ethmoid articulates with the sphenoid and sj^henoichil turbinals, the frontal, the two nasals, two superior maxilke, two lachrymals, two inferior tnrliinals, two ])alates, and the vomer. Variations.—Tlie size of the os planum is liahle to considerable variations. In the lower races it tends to he narrower from above downwards than in the higher, in this respect resembling the condition met with in the anthropoids. The os planum may fail to articulate with the lachrymal owing to the union of the frontal with the orbital ])rocess of the superior maxilla in front of it. (Orluto-maxillary frontal suture. A. Thomson, Journ. Anut. and Physiol., vol. xxiv. p. 349.) Division of the os planum by a vertical suture into an anterior and jTOsterior part has been frequently recorded. The number of the turliinals may lie increased from two to four, or may be reduced to one. (ReiJort of Committee of Collect. Invest. Jowrn. Anat. and Physiol, vol xxviii. p. 74.) Ossification takes place in tlie cartilage of the nasal capsule. Each lateral mass has one centre, which appears about the fourth or fifth month in the neighbourhood of tlie OS planum. From this the laminae around the ethmoidal air cells are formed which are complete at birth, the air sinuses in this instance not being formed by the absorjition of cancellous bone. From these centres the turbinals are also developed, and these, too, arc ossified at the ninth month. Vertical plate ^Alar process Slit for nasal nerve Ethmoidal grooves Os iilaiinm Cribriform plate Lateral mass Fio. 99.—Ethmoid as seen from Above.