GENERAL EMBRYOLOGY. 44 surrounded by an oval fold of skin, the genital fold, which extends from the front of the eminence to the root of the tail and encloses a shallow fossa, the cloacal fossa, at the bottom of which is the cloacal mem- brane. The posterior part of the cloacal fossa is afterwards separated from the anterior part by a transverse fold, the perineal fold, which crosses the external surface of the cloacal membrane in a position which corresponds internally with that occupied by the lower end of the septum separating the genito-iirinary from the rectal portions of the cloaca. The posterior part of the cloacal fossa, behind the transverse fold, is the proctodseal de- pression or proctodseum ; at first its long axis lies transversely, afterwaixls it assumes a triangular and then a circular form, the sphincter ani muscle develops in its walls, and it is transformed into the greater part, if not the whole, of the anal canal of the adult. It is separated from the rectum by the posterior part of the cloacal membrane, but when that disappears, at a date which has not yet been definitely ascertained, but probably about the third month, the anal passage forms the canal by which the rectum communicates with the exterior of the body. The orifices of the alimentary canal are thus completed. The Post-anal or Tail Gut.—When the hind- gut is first enclosed there is no tail, but a rudimentary tail is subsequently developed as an outgrowth from the dorsal end of the tail-fold, i.e. from the posterior extremity of the body of the embryo. As the tail is formed, a narrow tube, which communicates in front with the hind-gut, is developed within it. This is called the post-anal or tail gut. As a rule it only exists for a short time, disappearing from before back- wards about the period when cartilage begins to be formed in the body and limbs, and before the cloaca is divided into its rectal and genito-urinary portions. In the few cases in which it persists it retains its con- tinuity with the rectum, which is formed from the dorsal part of the cloaca. It appears in the human subject when the embryo is 3 mm. long, and the rudimentary tail is just visible as a small nodule. Wheu the embryo attains the length of 4'8 mm. the anterior part of the tail-gut begins to degenerate, its cavity disappears, and it is converted into a solid cord of cells which is still ■ attached in front to the hind-gut. In embryos 11 "5 mm. long, wiien the tail has been enclosed in the posterior part of the body, the coiniexion of the tail-gut with the hind-gut is lost, and the tail-gut is represented by a small vesicle with a short cord of degenerating cells attached to its anterior part. In larger embryos the tail-gat entirely disappears. When, as in the human subject, the rudimentary tail is eventually embedded in the posterior end of the body, any rudiments of the tail-gut which persist will be found in this situation ; it is stated that such rudi- ments occasionally develop into tumour formations. In mammals with free tails, rudiments of the tail-gut may be met with in any part of the tail, and apparently the anterior portion occasionally persists and maintains, its connexion with the rectum, from which it extends backwards as a narrow and blind diverticulum. Fio. 35.—Diagrams sliowiug the separa- tion of the cloacal part of the hiud- giit into genito-urinary tract and rectum. U. Ureter. Ur. Urethra. VD. Vas deferens, vs. Vesieuia semi- nalis. WD. Wolffian duct. A. Allantiiic stalk. ii. Bladder. C. Cloaca. CM. Cloacal membrane. K. Kidney. R. Rectum.