1203 THE ELBOW. course of the vessel may be mapped out upon the surface by drawing a line from the inner border of the coraco-brachialis, at the level of the posterior fold of the axilla, downwards to a point (opposite the neck of the radius) -| in. below the middle of the bend of the elbow. In ligaturing the vessel, the edges of the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, together with the median nerve, furnish valu- able guides to the artery, the mobility of which is often a source of trouble in performing the operation. The basilic vein, which is superficial to the deep fascia in the lower third of the upper arm, is ^ isible in the internal supracondyloid triangle and the lower part of the internal bicipital groove. The cephalic vein ascends a little internal to the outer edge of the triceps to reach the interval between the deltoid and pectoralis major. The surface guide for the median nerve is the same as that for the brachial artery. The ulnar nerve is indicated superficially by a line extending from the outer wall of the axilla immediately l)ehind the prominence of tlie coraco-brachialis, to the back of the internal condyle; in the upper half of the arm the nerve lies close behind the brachial artery under cover of the basilic vein, while in the lower half it lies a little behind the internal intermuscular septum, partially embedded in the fibres of the inner head of the triceps. To map out the course of the musculo- spiral nerve, first mark the point where it pierces the external intermuscular septum, viz. the junction of the upper and middle thirds of a hue extending from the insertion of the deltoid to the external condyle; from this point draw a line obliquely downwards and forwards to the front of the external condyle, where the nerve divides into its radial and posterior interosseous branches. To map out the nerve as it lies in the musculo-spiral groove, draw a line from the same point obliquely upwards across the prominence formed l»y the outer head of the triceps to the junction of the posterior fold of tlie axilla with the upper arm. In fractures ,of the humerus in the neighbourhood of the insertion of the deltoid, the nerve is not infrequently lacerated, or so involved in the callus as to produce the condition known as " drop-uirist" the result of paralysis of the extensor muscles of the forearm. To cut down upon the nerve, commence the incision a little below the point where it pierces the external intermuscular septum, and carry it obliquely upwards and slightly backwards througii the outer liead of the trice^JS. The shaft of the humerus, nowhere subcutaneous, is most readily manipulated in the region of the insertion of the deltoid, upwards along the outer head of the triceps, and downwards behind the external supracondyloid ridge. The surgical neck, situated between the tuberosities and tlie attachments of the muscles inserted into the region of the bicipital groove, is related to the outer wall of the axilla, and is on a level witli the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the deltoid; at the same level are the circumflex vessels and nerves. The shaft may be cut down upon with least injury to soft parts: (1) in its upper third, anteriorly, by an incision extending downwards through the anterior fibres of the deltoid, jjarallel, and a little external, to the bicipital groove; the sheath of the biceps will thus be avoided, and the small anterior circumflex artery will be the only vessel divided. (2) In the tcpper third, p)osteriorIy, by an incision through the posterior fibres of the deltoid, the bone being reached just external to the origin of the outer head of the triceps, thus avoiding the musculo-spiral nerve ; the circumflex vessels and nerves will be exposed at the iq:)per part of the wound. (3) In the loirer third, by an incision extending upwards from the back of the external condyle a little to the inner side of the external intermuscular septum. THE ELBOW. In injuries about the elbow the diagnosis rests mainly upon the relative positions of tlie bony points, which are, therefore, of great importance. The epicondylar processes of the humerus are both subcutaneous and upon the same level, the internal being the more prominent. In the extended position of the elbow the tip of the olecranon is on a level with a line joining the epicondyles; when the forearm is flexed the olecranon descends, and when full flexion is