135 THE INFERIOK TUKBINATED BONES. The Inferioe Turbinated Bones. The inferior turbinated or spongy bone (concha inferior) is a shell-like lamina of bone lying along the lower part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa. Of elongated form, the bone displays two curved borders enclosing an internal and external surface. The superior or attached border is thin and sharp in front and behind, where it articulates with the inferior turbinal crests on the inner surface of the body of the superior maxilla and the vertical plate of the palate bone, respectively. Between these two borders the central part of the upper edge rises in the form of a sharp crest, the fore part of which forms the upstanding lachrymal process (pro- cessus lachrymalis), which articulates above with the descending process of the lachrymal bone, as well as with the edges of the nasal groove of the superior maxilla, thus completing the osseous canal of the nasal duct. The posterior end of this crest is elevated in the form of an irregular projection called the ethmoidal process (processus ethmoidalis). This unites with the uncinate process of the ethmoid bone (see Fig. 98). Spreading downwards from the middle of the superior border, on its outer side, is a thin irregular plate of bone, the maxillary- process (processus maxillaris), which partially conceals the outer concave surface Maxillary process A - B Fig. 106.—Right Inferior Turbinated Bone. A, Inner Surface ; B, Outer Surface. of the bone, and, by its union with the inner wall of the maxillary sinus, assists in the completion of the partition which separates that cavity from the inferior nasal meatus. The inferior or free border, gently curved from before backwards and slightly out-turned, is rounded and full, and formed of bone which is deeply pitted and of a somewhat cellular charactof. The anterior and posterior extremities of the bone, formed by the convergence of the upper and lower borders, are thin and sharp; as a rule the hinder end is the more pointed of the two. The internal surface projects into the nasal fossa; convex from above downwards, and slightly curved from before backwards, it forms the floor of the middle meatus. It is rough and pitted, and displays some scattered and longitudinally directed vascular grooves. The outer surface overhangs the inferior nasal meatus. Concave from above downwards, and to some extent from before backwards, it is directed towards the outer wall of the nasal fossa. It is smooth in front, where it corresponds to the opening of the canal for the nasal duct; behind and towards its lower border, it is irregular and pitted. In the disarticulated bone, this surface is in part con- cealed by the downward projecting maxillary process. Connexions. — The inferior turbinal articulates with the superior maxilla, lachrymal, ethmoid, and palate bones. Variation.—A case in which the inferior turbinals were absent has been recorded by Hyrtl. Ossification.—The inferior turbinate bone, the maxillo-turbinal of comparative anatomy, is derived from the cartilage forming the outer wall of the nasal capsule, the upper portion of which forms the ethmo-turbinals. It ossifies, however, from a separate centre, which appears about the fifth month of foetal life, and later contracts a union by a horizontal lamella on its outer side with the superior maxillary bone.