THE HUMEEUS. 185 tuberosity (tul)erculum minus) by a well-defined furrow, called the bicipital groove (sulcus intertubercularis), from the circumstance that the tendon of origin of the long head of the biceps muscle IS lodged within it. The small tuberosity lies in front of the outer half of the head ; it forms a pronounced elevation, which fades into the shaft below. The surface of this tuberosity is faceted above and in front for the insertion of the sub- scapularis muscle, whilst ex- ternally it forms the prominent inner lip of the bicipital groove. Below the head and tuberosities the shaft of the bone rapidly contracts, and is here named the surgical neck (collum chirur- gicum) owing to its liability to fracture at this spot. The shaft, or body (corpus humeri), is cylindrical in its On it the bicipital be traced down- slightly inwards, its anterior surface. The Supraspinatus Great tuberosity Bk'ipit. Head Subscapularis Pcctorali: upper half, groove may wards and along edges of termed UeLT(.)ID Brai.'liio-i L EPICONDYLIC the groove, which are its lips, are confluent above with the great and small tuberosities respectively. Here they are prominent, and form the crests of the great and small tuberosities (cristfe tuber- culi majoris et minoris). In- teriorly the lips of the bicipital groove gradually fade away, the inner more rapidly than the outer, which latter may usually be traced down to a rough elevation placed on the outer side of the shaft about its middle, called the deltoid emi- nence. Into the outer lip of the bicipital groove are inserted the fibres of the pectoralis major muscle ; hence it is some- times described as the pectoral ridge. To the floor of the groove the latissimus dorsi is attached; whilst the teres major muscle is inserted into the inner lip. The deltoid eminence (tul)er- ositas deltoidea), to which the powerful deltoid muscle is attached, is a rough, slightly elevated V - shaped surface, placed on the outer side of the shaft about its middle. The anterior limb of the V is parallel to the axis of the shaft, and is continuous with the outer lip of the l)icipital groove above, whilst the Extensor carpi Radial fossa Tendon of exten- sor muscle External epicondyle Capitellum CORONDID FOSSA Pronator radii teres Internal epicondylk Tendon of flexor muscles Trochlea Fk;. 128.—Antkiuor View of the RiiiHT Humerus.