THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 542 Tlie posterior limb of the internal capsule is placed between the optic thalamus and the lenticular nucleus, and it extends backwards for a short distance beyond the hinder end of the putameu on the outer side of the posterior part of the .thalamus and of the tail of the caudate nucleus. The posterior limb, therefore, is spoken of as consisting of a lenticular and a retrolenticular part. Tlie lenticular part of tlio posterior limb is couipoised of botli corticipetal and cortici- fugal fibres. The corticipetal fibres enter the internal capsule from the outer aspect of the optic thalamus, and are composed of thahimic fibres which arise within the thalamus, and also, in all probability, certain long tracts (such as portion of the mesial fillet and portion of the superior cerebellar peduncle), which are said to be carried up through the thalamus into the internal capsule. The corticifugal fibres form a well-defined tract, which occupies the anterior half of the lenticular part of the internal capsule. This is the great motor or pyramidal tract descending from the Rolaudic area of the cortex. The fibres, which go to the nucleus of the facial nerve, lie close to the genu, and behind these are the fibres which go to the hypoglossal nucleus; still further back are pyramidal fibres, which enter the spinal cord and end around the motor cells of the anterior horn of gray matter. This pyramidal tract has been observed occupying the middle part of the crusta of the crus cerebri, into which it passes directly from the internal capsule. It is doubtful if there are any other corticifugal fibres in the lenticular part of the posterior limb of the internal capsule. Some observers, however, consider that with the pyramidal fibres there are cortico-pontine fibres from the liolandic area—fibres which end below in the nucleus pontis (van Gehuchten). The retrolenticular part of the posterior limb contains: (1) the fibres of the optic radiation as they pass to establish their connexions with the thalamus, superior quadri- geminal body, and corpus geniculatum externum ; (2) the fibres of the auditory radiation, or those which connect the auditory cortical field in the temporal lobe with the corpus geniculatum internum (Fig. 357, p. 480); (3) the temporo-jwntine tract, which is com- posed of fibres which take origin in the two upper convolutions of the temporal lobe and pass through this section of the internal capsule to reach the outer part of the crusta of the crus cerebri. Through this they reach the ventral part of the pons, in the gi'ay matter of which they end. When the fil)res of the internal capsule are traced upwards they are found to spread out widely from each other in a radiating or fan-shaped manner, so as to reach the various convolutions of the cerebral hemisphere. This arrangement is termed the corona radiata. The callosal system of fibres, as they proceed into the hemisphere, also radiate, and they intersect the fibres of the corona radiata (Fig. 403, p. r.40). External Capsule.—Tlie thin lamina of white matter between the outer aspect of the putauien and tlie claustrum is called the external capsule. This joins with the internal capsule in front of and behind the putamen, and in this manner the lenticular nucleus is encapsulated by white matter. Intimate Stkuctuke of the (Jbrebkal Hemispheke. The cerel)ral hemisphere is composed of an external coating of gray matter, termed the cortex, spread over an internal mass of white matter, v/hich is called the medullary centre. The cortex is of peculiar interest, seeing that there is good reason for believing that in it the higher functions of the brain, or those which may be classed under the general designation of the intellectual functions, take place. It is within the same layer of gray matter that the influence of those external impres- sions, which gain access to the cerebro-spinal axis through the senses, finally take shape as consciousness : and in it also are placed the centres which carry on the psycho-motor functions. The white medullary centre is composed of nerve-fibres which constitute the paths along which the influence of impressions, is carried to and from the cortex, and from one part of the cortex to another. The Cerebkal Cortex. The gray cortex is spread over the entire surface of the cerebral hemisphere, but it does not form a layer of equal thickness in all localities. At the summit of a