DEVELOPMENT OF PAETS DEEIVED FKOM FORE-BEAIN. 555 and behind the large foramen of Monro. This is the choroidal fissure, and the fold of the cerebral wall, which is thus thrust into the cavity, remains thin and entirely epithelial. After a time mesoblastic tissue from the great longitudinal fissure finds its way into the choi-oidal fissure and occupies the interval between the two thin layers which form the fold. This mesoblastic tissue forms the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle, and in the early stages of the hemisphere it is so voluminous that it fills up the relatively large cavity of the lateral ventricle. Development of the gyri and sulci.—From the beginning of the third month of development to about the end of the fourth mouth the surface of the cerebral hemisphere may present a number of linear and radially disposed fissures both upon its outer and its mesial aspects. These are produced by deep infoldings of the thin wall of the cerebral vesicle, and, with one or two exceptions, they entirely disappear when the fifth month of development is reached. At this period the cerebral surface again becomes smooth. They are therefore termed the transitory fissures. Only one permanent fissure, viz. the hippocampal, is with any degree of certainty lineally connected with one of these transitory fissures. Two, as a rule, occupy the ground which is later on held by the parieto-occipital and the calcarine fissures, of which they may be regarded as the precursors, but it is likely that in most cases they are oblitei-ated before their permanent successors appear upon the stage. At the time when the transitory fissures make their appearance, and during the whole period that they exist, it is important to note that the outer surface of the growing brain is applied closely to the deep surface of the enclosing cranial capside. It therefore appears likely that the infolding of the cerebral wall, which produces the transitory fissures, is caused by a growth antagonism between the cranium and the enclosed cerebral vesicle. The cerebral vesicle, growing more rapidly than the cranium, has to accommodate itself to the restricted space in which it is placed by the infolding of its thin wall. In an important memoir by Hoclistetter the existence of these transitory fissures in the brain of the living foetus is denied. The arguments advanced in favour of this view are very striking, but they do not explain all the circumstances of the case. After the occipital lobe is fully formed and the fifth month is reached, all growth antagonism between the cranial capsule and the enclosed cerebral vesicle ceases. The surface of the cerebral hemisphere becomes smooth, and the cranium, growing for a time more rapidly than the brain, leaves a relatively wide space between the cerebral surface and the surrounding cranial envelope. This is occupied by sodden subarachnoid tissue, and when this stage is reached (in the latter part of the fifth month) the permanent fissures and gyri begin to make their appearance. The incomplete sulci owe their origin to the upheaval of the cerebral cortex on either side of the appearing fissures, and the gyri which bound them are formed as the result of an exuberance of surface growth in localised areas. Owing to the wide interval between the cranial wall and the surface of the cerebral hemisphere, the particular surface areas which grow and foreshadow the future gyri suff'er no restriction, and they take the form of rounded eminences which rise from the general surface level of the cerebral hemisphere. As growth goes on, how- ever, the brain gradually assumes a bulk more nearly in accord with the cavity of the cranium, and the space for extension becomes more limited. Finally, about the beginning of the eighth month, the gyral elevations come into close contact with the cranial wall, and a second period of growth antagonism between the brain and its enclosing capsule is entered upon. As a result of this the gyri are pressed together, the fissures assume more definite shape, and the ordinary convolutionary forms make their appearance. So intimate, indeed, is the contact between the cerebral hemisphere and the skull capsule that the gyri, to some extent, produce an imprint on the deep aspect of the cranial bones. As already explained, the complete fissures are produced by an infolding of the wall of the cerebral vesicle. One of these is a transitory fissure, viz. the external perpendicular fissure of Bischoff". This differs from the earlier transitory fissures described above in so far that it does not come into view imtil the end of the fifth month, when the latter have completely disappeared (p. 523). Cerebral commissures.—The development of the cerebral commissures is sur- rounded with much difficulty, and cannot be said at the present moment to be fully under- stood. It would seem that the corpus callosum, the anterior commissure, and the fornix take origin in the thickened upper part of the lamina terminalis. The triangular interval which is left between these commissures is occupied by the septum lucidum, the precise nature of which is somewhat doubtful. Probably it is formed from the lamina terminalis,