SACEAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES. 571 cutaneous branch is minute, and may be absent altogether. In certain cases the fourth nerve forms, with the third, a loop of communication from which muscles are supplied. Seventh and Eighth Cervical Nerves.—These are the smallest of the posterior primary divisions of the cervical nerves. They give off' ordinarily no cutaneous branches, and end in the deep muscles of the back. THORACIC NERVES. The posterior primary division of each thoracic nerve divides into an internal and external branch. In the case of the upper six thoracic nerves the internal branches are chiefly distributed as cutaneous nerves, while the external branches are wholly muscular in their distribution; in the case of the lower six thoracic nerves the opposite is the case. In all cases the muscular branches serve to innervate the longitudinal muscles of the back. The distribiition of the cutaneous branches is different in the upper and lower part of the back. The upper six or seven thoracic nerves innervate the skin of the scapular region. The internal cutaneous branches, after passing backwards from their origin among the dorsal muscles, reach the surface near the spines of the vertebrae and are directed almost horizontally outwards over the vertebral border of the scapula. The first is small; the second is very large and reaches to the acromion process. The rest diminish in size, from above downwards. The external cutaneous branches of the lower five or six thoracic nerves are directed from their origin obliquely downwards and outwards among the parts of the erector spinje muscle. Becoming cutaneous by piercing the latissimus dorsi at some distance from the middle line they siipply the skin of the back in the lower part of the chest and loin, the lowest nerves (eleventh and twelfth) reaching over the iliac crest on to the buttock. The lower nerves often subdivide into two branches before or after their emergence from the latissimus dorsi mi:scle. LUMBAR NERVES. First three Lumbar Nerves.—The posterior primary divisions of the first three lumbar nerves subdivide into internal and external branches, similar in their general arrangement to the lower thoracic nerves. The internal branches are muscular and innervate the deep muscles of the back. The external branches are chiefly cutaneous. They are directed obliquely downwards and outwards among the fibres of the erector spinfe and become siiperficial by piercing the vertebral aponeurosis, just above the iliac crest and a short distance in front of the posterior iliac spine. They are then directed downwards in the superficial fascia of the buttock and supply a lengthy strip of skin, extending from the middle line above the iliac crest to a point below and behind the great trochanter of the femur. The fourth, and fifth lumbar nerves (like the last two cervical nerves) usually supply only muscular branches to the longit;idinal muscles of the back. The fifth nerve sends a communicating branch in many cases to form a loop with the posterior primary division of the first sacral nerve (posterior sacral plexus). SACRAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES. The posterior primary divisions of the sacral nerves issue from the posterior sacral foramina. As in the case of the thoracic and lumbar nerves, the iipper sacral nerves differ from the lower in their distribution. The first three sacral nerves supply internal muscular branches for the multifidus spinae, and external cutaneous branches which pierce the fibres of the sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus muscle, and supply the skin over the back of the sacrum and contiguous part of the buttock. The posterior sacral plexus consists, like the posterior cervical plexus, of loops or plexiform communications over the back of the sacrum between the posterior pi'imary divisions of tlie first three sacral nerves, to which are frequently joined branches of the last lumbar nerve and fourth sacral nerve. From these loops branches proceed to