904 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. into tlie heart was obliterated, and the cardiac veins terminated in a trunk which passed upwards to the left innominate vein. This trunk was obviously formed by enlargement of the left duct of Ouvier and the lower part of tlie left ^jrimitive jugular vein. Not very uncommonly, as the result of tlie persistence of both ducts of Cuvier, there are two superior venre cavre, the transverse anastomosis which usually forms the left innominate vein being small or entirely absent. In these cases the left innominate vein descends in the left part of the superior mediastinum, crosses the aortic arch, is joined by the left superior intercostal vein, and becomes the left superior vena cava ; this latter vessel descends in front of the root of the left lung, and terminates in the lower and back ])art of the right auricle. It receives the great cardiac \'ein, and, turning to the Ijack of the heart, replaces the coronary sinus. This arrangement is normal in many mammals. Occasionally in man the left superior vena cava terminates in the left auricle, and the coronary sinus, which represents a part of the sinus venosus, has been seen to have a similar ending; both these abnormal endings must be tlie result of malposition of the interauricular septum. The vena azygos major may lie formed on the left side ; it then arches over the root of the left lung, and terminates in the left end of the coronary sinus. This is the normal arrangement in some mammals, and it is due to the persistence of the left cardinal vein and the left duct of Cuvier. The azygos veins may be reduced or increased in number. In the former case there may be only one azygos vein which receives the intercostal veins of both sides, or there niay be two azygos veins, a right and a left, tlie left usually being divided into upper and loM"er sections whicli are connected by a smaller intermediate jiortion, and united to the right vein by one or more transverse anastomoses, or it may terminate by joining either the left innominate vein or the left superior vena cava. The small intermediate section on the left side may form a separate vessel, and then the number of the azj'gos veins is increased to four, each of the three left veins terminating in the right vein. When there is only one azygos vein the portion of the left cardinal vein, from which, usually, the vertical portions of the left azygos veins are formed, has disappeared, and the left intercostal veins open into the right azygos vein by separate transverse anastomoses, as in the case of the left lumbar veins and the inferior vena cava. On the other hand, when there is only one left azygos vein the intermediate sections of tlie thoracic part of the left cardinal vein and one or more of the transverse anastomoses have persisted, whilst, when the left azygos terminates in the left innominate vein, the transverse anastomoses have disappeared, and the lower part of the left primitive jugular vein has remained patent. Occasionally the vena azygos major takes the place of the upper jjart of the inferior vena cava, and the whole of the left cardinal vein is enlarged ; in these cases the upper portion of the normal inferior vena cava is absent or exceptionalh' small. The internal jugular vein is sometimes smaller or larger'tlian normal. In either case com- pensatory changes in size occur in the lateral sinus and internal jugular vein of the ojjposite side, or in the external and anterior jugular veins of the same side. The external jugular vein is sometimes absent, or it may be smaller than usual; in both cases either the anterior or internal jugular veins are enlarged. In some of the cases in which the external jugular vein is small it receives no communication from the teinporo-maxillary vein, but is merely the continuation of the posterior auricular vein. On the other liand, it may Ije enlarged, and l eceive the whole of the temjioro-maxillary vein. The anterior jugular vein may be absent, or it may be iniusually large, especially in the lower part of its extent, and after it has received an occasional tributary i'rom the common facial vein. The temporo-maxillary vein may terminate entirely in the common facial vein, or in the external or the internal jugular \-ciii. It may be very small, and occasionally it is absent. Variations of the cranial blood sinuses are not numerous. One lateral sinus may l)e absent or very small when, as a rule, that of the opposite side is enlai'ged. The inferior longi- tudinal, the occi])ital, or tin- spheno-jiarietal sinuses may be absent, and there may be an additional petro-squaiiious tributary to the lateral sinu.*. The petro-squamous sinus, when present, is the remains of that portion of the primitive lateral sinus ^\•hich crossed the temporal bone, passed through the post-condyloid foramen and terminated in the primitive jugular vein. Very occasion- ally in the human adult it still pierces the skull behind the condyle of tlie jaw, and terminates in the temporo-maxillary vein, and this is the normal arrangement in some mammals. The Veins of the Upper Extremity. The superficial veins of the Ibrearm are extremely variable ; any of them may be absent, but most commonly it is the median or the radial vein which is wanting. The median cejDhalic and the cejjhalic veins may Ije small or absent, and on the other hand the cej^halic vein may be larger than usual. Moreover the cejihalic vein may end in the external jugular vein, its original termination ; or it may be connected with the external jugular vein by an anastomosing channel whicli sometimes passes over the clavicle and sometimes through that bone. The liasilic vein is sometimes larger and sometimes smaller than usual, and it may pierce the fascia of the arm at a higher or at a lower level than is customary. The venae comites of the arteries of the upjier extremity generally terminate at the lower border of llie subscajnilaris, where they join tlie axillary vein, but they may end above or below the position of their usual termination. The subclavian vein sometimes passes behind instead of in front of the scalenus anticus muscle, and it has been seen passing between the clavicle and the subclavius muscle.