BEANCHES OF THE INTEENAL ILIAC AETEEY. 807 The artery to the vas (a. deferentialis), which not unfrequently arises from the superior vesical, is a long slender vessel which runs downwards to the vas and vesicula seminales, and is then continued with the vas deferens to the testicle, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. It also anastomoses with the cremasteric branch of the deep epigastric artery. 5. The middle hsemorrhoidal artery (a. hiemorrhoidahs media) is an irregular branch which arises either directly from the anterior division of the internal iliac or from the inferior vesical branch; more rarely it springs from the internal pudic artery. It runs inwards, and is distributed to the muscular coats of the rectum ; it also gives branches to the prostate, the seminal vesicle, and the vas deferens, and it anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, with the inferior vesical, and with the superior and inferior hajmorrhoidal arteries. 6. The vaginal artery (a. vaginalis) in the female usually corresponds to the inferior vesical in the male; in which case it arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac, either independently or in common with the uterine artery. Occasionally both inferior vesical and uterine vessels are present, and not un- commonly the vaginal artery is represented by several branches. The vaginal arteries run downwards and inwards on the floor of the pelvis to the sides of the vagina, and divide into numerous branches which ramify on its anterior and posterior walls. The corresponding branches of opposite sides anastomose and form anterior and posterior longitudinal vessels, the so-called azygos arteries. They also anastomose above with the cervical branches of the uterine artery, and below with the perineal branches of the internal pudic. In addition to supplying the vagina, small branches are given to the bulb of the vestibule, to the base of the bladder, and to the rectum. 7. The uterine artery (a. uterina) arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac, either separately or in common with the vaginal or middle haemorrhoidal arteries. It runs inwards and slightly forwards, upon the upper surface of the levator ani, to the lower border of the broad hgament, between the two layers of which it passes inwards, and arches above the ureter about three quarters of an inch from the uterus. It passes above the lateral fornix of the vagina to the side of the neck of the uterus, and is then directed upwards, until it almost reaches the fundus, just below which, however, it turns outwards beneath the isthmus of the Fallopian tube and anastomoses with the ovarian artery. It supplies the uterus, the upper part of the vagina, the inner part oi the Fallopian tube, and gives branches to the round ligament of the uterus. It anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the vaginal, the ovarian, and the deep epigastric arteries. Parietal Branches of the Anterior Division of the Internal Iliac. 1. The obturator artery (a. obturatoria, Figs. 569 and 572) runs forwards and downwards along the lateral wall of the true pelvis, just below its brim, to the obturator foramen, through the upper part of which it passes. It terminates im- mediately on entering the thigh by dividing into internal and external terminal branches which skirt round the margin of the obturator foramen beneath the obturator externus muscle. It is accompanied in the whole of its course by the obturator nerve and vein, the former being above it and the latter below. To its outer side is the pelvic fascia, which intervenes between it and the upper part of the obturator internus muscle, whilst on its inner side it is covered by peritoneum; between the peritoneum and the artery is the ureter. When the bladder is distended it also comes into close relation with the anterior part of the artery. In the female the ovarian vessels and the broad ligament are on the inner side of the obturator artery.. Branches.—All the branches except the terminal are given off before the artery leaves the pelvis. They include :—(a) Muscular branches to the obturator internus levator ani and ilio-psoas muscles, (b) A nutrient branch to the ilium, which passes beneath the ilio-psoas muscle, supplies the bone, and anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery, (c) A vesical branch, or branches, pass inwards to the bladder beneath the