154 OSTEOLOGY. The following foramina open into the zygomatic fossa—the foramen ovale, foramen spinosum, posterior dental foramina, inferior dental foramen, minute foramina for the transmission of emissary veins; of these one of large size is occasionally present, the foramen of Vesalius. Spheno-Maxillary Fossa.—This space, which corresponds to the angular interval between the pterygo-maxillary and spheno-maxillary fissures, and which lies between the maxilla in front and the root of the pterygoid process behind, is bounded internally by the vertical plate of the palate bone, which separates it from the nasal cavity, with which, however, it communicates by means of the spheno-palatine foramen, which hes between the orbital and sphenoidal processes of the palate bone and the under surface of the body of the sphenoid. Opening into this fossa, above and behind, are the foramen rotundum, the Vidian canal and the pterygo-palatine canal from without inwards, whilst below is the superior orifice of the posterior palatine canal, together with openings of the accessory posterior palatine canals. Its roof is formed by the under surface of tlie body of the sphenoid and the orbital plate of the palate bone. Anteriorly'it lies in relation to the apex of the orbit, with which it communicates by means of the spheno- maxillary fissure; whilst externally, as already stated, it communicates with the zygomatic fossa through the pterygo-maxillary fissure. Norma Occipitalis. This view of the cranium includes the posterior halves of the two parietal bones above, the tabular part of the occipital bone below, and the mastoid portions of the temporal bones on either side inferiorly. The shape of this aspect of the skull vaiies much, but ordinarily the greatest width corresponds to the level of the parietal eminences. The sutures on this view of the calvaria display a tri-radiate arrangement, one limb of which is vertical, and corresponds to the posterior part of the interparietal or sagittal suture (sutura sagittalis). The other two limbs pass outwards and downwards in the direction of the mastoid processes, uniting the two parietal bones in front with the occipital bone behind ; these constitute the A-shaped lambdoid suture (sutura lambdoidea). The point of confluence of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures is called the lambda. This can generally be felt in the living, owing to the tendency of the tabular part of the occipital to project slightly immediately below this spot. About one inch and a quarter above the lambda the two small parietal foramina (foramina parietalia) are seen, through which pass the small emissary veins of Santorini, which connect the intracranial venous system with the superficial veins of scalp. These small holes lie about j\ of an inch apart on either side of the sagittal suture, which here, for the space of about an inch, displays a simplicity of outline in striking contrast with its serrated arrangement elsewhere. The term obelion is applied to a point on the sagittal suture in line with the two parietal foramina. The lambdoid suture is characterised by great irregularity of outline, and not unfrequently chains of separated ossicles are met with in it, the so-called Wormian bones. The tabular part of the occipital bone is divided into two parts by the superior curved line (linea nuchte superior), the central part of which forms the external occipital protuberance (protuberantia occipitalis exterior). The part above, called the occipital surface (planum occipitale), comes within our present consideration; the part below, the nuchal surface (planum nuchale), though seen in perspective, had best be considered when the base is examined. A little above the level of the superior curved line the occipital surface is crossed .on either side by a faint lunated line, the highest curved line (linea nuchse suprema) to which are attached the occipitales muscles and the epicranial aponeurosis. The projection of the occipital surface varies much in individual skulls; most frequently it overhangs the external occipital protuberance, forming a distinct boss; exceptionally, however, the latter may be the most projecting part of the bone. The extremity of the superior curved line on either side corresponds to the position of the asterion (p. 149). External to these points the outline of the skull is determined by the downward projection of the mastoid processes, the inner surfaces of which are deeply grooved for the attachment of the posterior bellies of