498 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. Here many of its fibres end in terminal arborisations around the thalamic cells; whilst others, according to certain observers, emerge from the thalamus, enter the posterior limb of the internal capsule, and ascend through the corona radiata to the Eolandic area of the cerebral cortex, in which they, for the most part, end in the posterior central convolution (Flechsig). Ganglion Interpedunculare and Fasci- culus Retroflexus.—On the A'eiitral aspect (jf tlie tegnientuin close to tlie surface and to tlie mesial plane, there is a small gronp of cells in the lower part of the gray matter whicli forms the locus perforatus posticus. This is termed the ganglion riiteiyedtmcidare. The fasciculus retroflexus is a small band of fibres which arises above in the ganglion liabenulse—a nuclear mass which will be studied in connexion with tlie diencephalon —and which runs downwards and forwards in the tegmentum of the upper part of the mesencephalon between the inner aspect of the nucleus ruber and the mesial jjlane, to end in the ganglion interpedunculare. The Fountain Decussation. — If the region in front of the posterior longitudinal bundles be examined in the upper part of the mesencephalon a very close decussation of fibres in the mesial plane will be observed in tlie interval between the two red nuclei. This is the " fountain decus.sat ion." Accord- ing to Held, the fibres which take part in the dorsal portion of the fountain decussation (de- cussation of Meynert) come from the superior (piadrigeminal bodies, and, after they have gained the opposite side, they turn down- wards in the posterior longitudinal fasciculus. The ventral part of the decussation (decussa- tion of Forel) would appear to be formed by arcuate fibres of the tegmentum which arise in the gray matter of the Sylvian aqueduct. Crusta or Pes of the Crus Cerebri (Ijasis pedunculi).—The crusta presents a somewhat crescentic outline when seen in section, and it stands quite apart from its fellow of the opposite side. It is composed of a compact mass of longitudinally directed fibres, all of which, as Dejerine has shown, arise in the cortex of the cereln'um and pursue an unbroken corticifugal course into and through the crusta of the crus cerebri. These fibres may be classified into- two distinct sets, viz. cortico-pontine and pyramidal. The cortico-pontine fibres possess this leading peculiarity : in their course down- wards they are all arrested in the ventral part of the pons Varolii and end in fine terminal arborisations around the cells of the nucleus pontis. They come from certain well-defined areas of cerebral cortex, viz. (1) the cortex of the prefrontal part of the frontal lobe, and (2) the cortex of the middle portion of the temporal lobe. These tracts would appear to hold a very definite position within the crus. Thus it has been satisfactorily established that the temporo-po7itine strand forms the outer or lateral fifth of the crusta, whilst the recent researches of Terrier and Turner render it more than likely that the fronto-pontine strand holds a similar position in the inner or mesial part of the crusta. The pyramidal fibres constitute the great motor tract from the cerebral cortex. They occupy a position corresponding to the middle third of the crusta. The pyra- midal tract differs from the cortico-pontine strands in being carried downwards through the ventral part of the pons and on the ventral aspect of the medulla into the cord, which it enters in the form of the crossed and direct pyramidal tracts. On its way through the pons and medulla it sends fibres to the various motor nuclei in those sections of the brain-stem. Fig. 370.—Diagram of thb Connexions op the Mesial Fillet and also of certain of the THALAMO-CORTICAt. J'TBHES.