1113 THE SCKOTUM. downwards over the cord and encloses its various structures, togetlier with a certain amount of areolar tissue derived from the sub-peritoneal tissue of the abdominal wall (Figs. 759 and 760). Oliliquus extenuis Obliquus intemus Obliquus internus (cut)- Deep circumflex iliac artery Internal abdominal ring and infimdibuliforn; fascia Creniaster muscb' — Obliquus exteriiu: Spermatic cord passin;: through cremaster musclr -Obliqiuis extenius Dbliciuu.s interims (cut) •aiisversalis muscle Over deep epigastric artery Fascia transversalis Deep epigastric artery Conjoint tendon ( her outer border of rectus abdominis iiatic cord 11 iaugular fascia Fig. 760.—The Groin. The structures seen on reliexiou of part of the obliquus internus (A. M. Paterson). Ill addition to tlie .structures enumerated above, the artery to the vas, the cremasteric artery, and the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve, acconiiiany the structures forming the s]i(;r- inatic cord. The Scrotum. The scrotum, in which the testes are placed, varies much in appearance in different subjects, and even in the same individual, at different times. As the result of cold or of exercise, the wall of the scrotum becomes contracted and firm, and the skin covering it wrinkled; at other times the wall may be relaxed and flaccid, the scrotum then assuming the appearance of a pendulous bag. The left side of the scrotum reaches to a lower level than the right, in correspondence with the lower level of the testis on that side of the body. The skin covering the scrotum is of a darker colour than the general skin of the body, and is covered by hair. The difference in the appearance of the scrotum at different times is due \ to the amount of contraction or relaxation of a layer of muscular fibres placed in the superficial fascia. When this muscular layer is contracted, the skin is thrown into folds or wrinkles called rugse; when it is relaxed, the skin becomes more smooth and even. This muscular tissue is called the dartos muscle. The scrotum is marked in the middle line by a median raphe (raphe scroti), which is continued backwards towards the anus, and forwards on to the under, or urethral, surface of the penis. The interior of the scrotum is divided into two cavities, one for each testis, by an incomplete septum (septum scroti), which is in part continuous with deeper layers of the dartos tissue. The wall of each of these cavities is formed by the corresponding tunica vaginalis, infuudibuliform fa,scia, cremasteric fascia, and intercolumnar fascia, while the skin, the superficial fascia, and dartos muscle form coverings which are common to the whole scrotum, and enclose both cavities. In the superficial fascia of the scrotum there is an entire absence of fat. The scrotum in the foetus contains no cavity, but, like the labia niajora in the female, it is composed entirely of Avascular connective tissue. Vessels and Nerves of the Scrotum.—Tlie scrotum receives its vascular supply from tlie superficial perineal branches of the internal pudic arteries which reach its posterior surface, and from the external pudic branches of the femoral artery which reach its upper and anterior part. The nerves of the scrotum are derived froui tlie superficial perineal branches of the internal pudic, from the perineal branch of the small sciatic, and froui the ilio-inguinal nerve. The