THE SPINAL NERVES, THE CRANIAL NERVES, AND THE SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM. By A. M. Paterson. THE SPINAL NERVES. Diirii mat Dorsal iiPrve-root l.iLiaiiK'iil um ilrlll ll-lll;lt um Vi'litral ]iiT\'e-l'00t The spinal nerves are arranged in pairs, of which there are usually thirty-one. Each nerve arises by two roots from the spinal cord, and, after leaving the spinal canal through the inter-vertebral foramen, is distributed to the trunk and limits by means of a series of branches in a manner to be described below. The spinal nerves are tlesignated cervical, thoracic, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal, in relation to the vertebrte between which they emerge from the spinal canal. Each nerve appears below the correspond- ing vertebra, except the first of the cervical series, wlaich passes out of the spinal canal between the occipital bone and the atlas. There are thus eight cervical nerves (the last appearing be- tween the seventh cer- vical and first thoracic vertebrtTe); there are twelve thoracic, Jive lumbar. Jive sacral, and one coccygeal nerve, all appearing below the correspond- ing; vertebrfe. Dorsal nerve-root - Ventral nerve-root Ventral nerve-root Jjiganientuni nticulatuni Arachnoid -Pia mater Dorsal nerve-root Posterior i)riniary division Anteriijr primary division Dorsal ganglion Posterior primary (li\ision Anterior primary division Ventral nerve-root The thirty-first nerve is occasionally'" absent; and there are sometimes one or two additional pairs of minute filaments below the thirty-first, which, however, do not emerge from the spinal canal. These are rudimentary caudal nerves. The size of the spinal nerves varies extremely. The largest are those which take part in the formation of the great nerve trunks for the supply of the limbs (lower cervical and first^ thoracic, and lower lumbar and upper sacral nerves) ; and of these the nerves destined for the lower limbs are the larger. The coccygeal nerve is the smallest of the Fig. 419.—Scheme op the Arrangement op the Membranes of the Spinal Cord and the Roots of the Spinal Nerves.