EOOT OF THE LUNG. 939 The bronchus in the root of the limg lies beliiiid the great pulmonary vessels. The pulmonary artery occupies a different position on the two sides in relation to the main or undivided part of the bronchus. On the right side it is placed below it, whilst on the left side it crosses the l)ronchus and occupies a higher level in the pulmonary root. The two pulmonary veins on both sides lie at a lower level in the root of the lung than tlie pulmonary artery and bronchus, whilst the upper of the two veins occupies a plane in front of the puhnonary artery (Fig. 632, p. 934). Distribution of the Bronchial Tubes within the Lungs.—The two lungs are not symmetrical; the right lung is sulxlivided into three lol)es, and the left lung is cleft into two lobes. The bronchi exhibit a corresponding want of symmetry. The right bronchus, as it approaches the pulmonary hilus, gives off two branches for the upper and middle lobes of the right lung respectively, and then the main stem of the tuby enters the lower lobe. The left bronchus sends off a large liranch to the iipper lobe of the left lung;, and then sinks into the lower lobe. The first l)ranch of the right bronchus for the upper right pulmonary lobe leaves the main stem about one inch from tlie trachea. The first branch of the left bronchus, on the other hand, takes origin about twice that distance from the trachea. The relation of the pulmonary artery to the bronchial subdivisions is different on the two sides. On the right side it turns backwards to reach the posterior aspect of the bronchus lielow the first and above the second lironchial branch. On the left side the puhnonary artery turns backwards above the level of the first bronchial branch. On the right side, therefore, the first bronchial branch is placed above the pulmonary artery, and in consequence it is termed the eparterial bronchus ; all the others he below the artery, and are termed hyparterial bronchi. On the left side there is no eparterial branch; they are all hyparterial. When the main stem of the bronchus is followed into the inferior lobe of each lung, it is seen to travel downwards and backwards in the puhnonary substance until it reaches the thin l)ack part of the base of the lung which lies between the diaphragm and the thoracic wall, and there it ends. As it proceeds through the inferior lobe it gives off a series of large ventral and a series of smaller dorsal branches. As a rule these are three in number in each case, and the dorsal and ventral branches do not arise opposite to each other, but alternately, one from the back, and then another, after a slight interval, from the front of the tube. The first hyparterial division on each side (i.e.'the branch to the middle lobe of the right lung and the branch to the upper lobe of the left side) is generally regarded as the first member of the ventral group. It was Aeby who first recognised tlie existence in each lung of a main or stem bronchus giving off a ventral and dorsal series of branches, and who drew the distinction between the eparterial and hyparterial bronchial branches. A consideration of these relations led this author to conclude that tlie eparterial bronchus and the upjjer lobe of the right lung ha^^e no nrorpholo- gical equivalents on the left side of tlie body. In other words, he was led to believe that the middle lobe of the right lung is the homologue of the upper lobe of the left lung. Hasse, who lias also investigated the subject, endorses this view, with certain modifications and additions, and the hypothesis, either in its original state as presented liy Aeby, or as subsefpiently modified by Hasse, has been very generally accejited by anatomists. More recent research, however, has seriously affected tbe stability of this conclusion. Narath contends that the distinction between the eparterial bronchus of the right side and the hyparterial bronchi of both sides is not one of i'undamental importance, and further, that a branch which arises from the first liyj^arterial bronchus on the left side and turns upwards into the apex of the left lung is the direct equi- valent of the eparterial bronchus of the right side. This he terms the apical bronchus, and he believes that it represents the first dorsal branch of the left stem bronchus. Huntington, in a very convincing paper, strongly supports the contention of Narath, and holds that, except " for purposes of topograpliy, we should abandon the distinction between eparterial and hyj^arterial bronchi." With Narath he regards the ejjarterial bronchus as a secondaiy branch which has migrated in an upward direction on the main stem. According to Huntington, therefore, Aeby's proposition should be amended as follows :— Right side. Left side. Upper + middle lobe = Upper lobe. Lower + cardiac lobe = Lo^^'er lobe. The cardiac lobe mentioned in this table is the occasional azygos lobe to which reference has already been made, and it is interesting to note that, whilst the lobe in question as a separate entity is rarely seen in the liumaii lung, the bronchus which corresponds to it is always