THE TWELFTH OE HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. 655 nerves, on the outer side of the internal carotid artery; it then curves forwards and downwards over the two carotid arteries lying beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. As it crosses the external carotid artery it hooks round the occipital artery. Above the great cornu of the hyoid bone the nerve conceals HyPOCT nnSAI. NERVK VaCI'S neevf. Recurrent branch j ■ superior cerviral gaiii^lioii of Uic syiiii):,tliHtic First cervical nerve Second cervical nerve Glosso-pharvnoeal nerve Thiko cervical nerve Stylophavyiigpii: PHAPVNIIEAT, HRAKCII OF VACUS Digastric DESCENDENS IIYPOOLOSSI Jliilclli' constrictor De.scendens cervicis Internal laryngeal nerve Ansa hypoglossi Inferior constrictor Onio-livoiil StyloglosMis) Styloliyoid ligament Stylohyoid Superior constrictor Lingual nerve - Genio-hyoglossns ■Mylo-hyoid (cnt) Digastric Thyro-liyoid Fig. 471. —The Muscles of the Hyoid Bone and Styloid Process, and the Extiunsic Mi'Scles of THE ToNOUE, WITH THKlll NERVES. the lingual artery; and it then disappears between the mylo-hyoid and hyo-glossus muscles to reach the tongue, in the muscular sul)stance of which it terminates. Communications.—In its course the hypoglossal nerve has the following conmiuuica- tions witli other nerves :—Near the base of the skull it is connected by small branches with (1) the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic: (2) the ganglion of the trunk of tlie pneumogastric ; (3) by a larger bi'anch, with the loop between the first two cervical nerves; (4) as it crosses the external carotid artery it receives a comraunira- tion from the pharyngeal plexus (lingual hraneh of the vagus) ; and (5) beneath the mylo- hyoid muscle, at the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, it forms loops of communication with the lingual branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The branches of the nerve are:—(1) Eecurrent; (2) Descending; (3) Thyro- hyoid ; and (4) Lingual. The recurrent branch passes from the nerve near its origin to silpply the dura