DEVELOPMENT OF PAKTS DEEIVED FEOM FOEE-BEAIN. 553 Basal Lamina.—The part of the dieocephalou and telencephalon which lies below the level of the salens of Monro retains its primitive form, and nndergoes only slight change. Consequently, when this region in the adult brain is compared with the corresponding region in the embryonic brain, the resemblance between the two is very striking. In the fore-brain, therefore, it is the alar lamina which plays the predominant part in the formation of the cerebrum. The value, also, of the basal part of the wall of this portion of the neural tube is still further rediiced by the fact that it no longer contains the nuclei of origin of efferent nerves. The highest of these nuclei (the oculo-motor) is placed in the mesencephalon. The region of the fore-brain which lies below the sulcus of Monro is termed the hypo- thalamus. The part of this which corresponds to the diencephalon is called the pars mannnillaris hypothalami, whilst the part in front, which belongs to the telen- cephalon, receives the name of pars optica hypothalami. From the pars mammillaris hypothalami are derived the corpus mammillare and a portion of the tuber cinereum. With the pars optica hypo- thalami are associated the following parts, viz. the tuber cinereum, with the infundi- bulum and the cerebral part of the pituitary body, the optic chiasma, the optic recess, and the lamina cinerea. The corpora mammillaria form, in the first instance, a relatively large downward bulging of the floor of the brain-tube. As development goes on this bulging becomes relatively small, and about the fourth month the single pro- jection becomes divided into the two tubercles. The infuudibnlum and posterior or cerebral lobe of the pituitary body are developed as a hollow downward diverticulum of the floor of the telencephalon (p. 508). A portion of the original cavity is retained in the upper part of the infuudibnlum, and constitutes the infundibular recess in the floor of the third ventricle. The optic nerve is chiefly formed by the passage of fibres backwards from the retina in the wall of the original optic stalk, whilst the chiasma takes form by the transit of fibres across the middle line in front of the infundibulum and behind the optic recess. To a large extent these fibres are derived from the optic nerve. The optic recess of the third ventricle marks the spot where the hollow optic vesicle originally bulged out from the lower and lateral part of the fore-brain, and in the adult it therefore represents a portion of the primitive cavity of the tubular stalk of the optic vesicle. In the course of develop- ment the optic nerve fibres, which appear in the stalk of the optic vesicle to form the optic nerve, seek an attachment much further back, and through the optic tract they are even carried as far as the mesencephalon. The roof of the fore-brain remains thin, and does not proceed to the development of nervous elements, except in its posterior part. Here it forms the pineal body and the Fig. 411.—Two Drawings of the Embryonic Brain (by His). A, Reconstruction of the fore-brain and mid-brain of His's embryo KG ; profile view. B, Same brain as A, divided along the mesial plane and viewed upon its inner aspect. M, Mammillary eminence ; T.c, Tuber cinereum ; Hp, Hypophysis (pituitary diverticulum from buccal cavity) ; Opt, Optic sialic ; TH, Optic thalamus ; Tg, Tegmental part of mesencephalon ; P.s, Pars subthalamica ; C.s, Corpus striatum ; F.M, Foramen of Monro ; L, Lamina terminalis ; R.O, Recessus opticus ; R.i, Recessus infun- dibiili.