340 THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. named the crural canal. The wall of this is known as the crural sheath. This canal is the passage through which a femoral liernia enters the thigh. Its upper limit is the crural ring, placed behind Poupart's ligament in front of the origin of the pectineus muscle from the pubis; external to Gimbernat's ligament, and internal to the femoral vein. In front of it the fascia transversalis forming the sheath is thickened to form the deep crural arch. The part of Poupart's ligament in front of the ring is called the superficial crural arch. The deep epigastric artery separates the crural ring from the internal abdominal ring. The crural canal ordinarily contains fat which is continuous above with the extra-peritoneal tissue. The crural ring is filled by a plug of fat or a lymphatic gland, constituting the crural septum. The crural canal ends behind the saphenous opening, covered by the cribriform fascia; the falciform ligament crosses over it and conceals its upper portion. The course of a femoral hernia is determined by this band of fascia lata. The hernia descends through the crural ring, pushing the crural septum before it; it traverses the crural canal, and is directed forwards through the saphenous opening. The anterior part of the hernia, being pressed upon and retarded by the crural arches and by the falciform ligament, the posterior part pushes onwards, hooks round the falciform ligament, and is directed upwards over Poupart's ligament. The cover- ings of a femoral hernia, in addition to peritoneum and extra-peritoneal tissue (crural septum), are crural sheath, cribriform fascia, superficial fascia, and skin. THE MUSCLES ON THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. The muscles on the front of the thigh include the sartorius, quadriceps extensor, ilio-psoas, and pectineus muscles. The sartorius, a long strap-like muscle stretching obliquely across the thigh, arises from the anterior superior spine of the ilium and half of the notch below it. It passes down the thigh to the inner side of the knee, where it is inserted by aponeurotic fibres into the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia just below the inner tuberosity, and by its borders into fascial expansions which join the capsule of the knee-joint and the fascia lata of the leg. The sartorius is superficial in its whole extent. It is so twisted on itself that in the upper third of its length its superficial surface looks forwards, in the lower third inwards at the side of the knee. It passes diagonally down the thigh, separ- ating the quadriceps extensor externally from the adductor muscles internally. Its upper third forms the outer boundary of Scarpa's triangle; its middle third forms the roof of Hunter's canal; and its lower third, in contact with the inner side of the knee, is separated from the tendon of the gracilis muscle by the long saphenous nerve and a branch of the anastomotic artery. A bursa lies beneath the tendon at its insertion. The sartorius conceals in its upper third the external circumflex artery and branches of the anterior canal nerve, and it covers the femoral vessels in Hunter's canal. The quadriceps extensor (m. quadriceps femoris) lies between the sartorius on the one hand and the tensor fasciae femoris and ilio-tibial band on the other; it is composed of four muscles—the rectus femoris, vastus externus, crureus, and vastus internus. The rectus femoris has a double tendinous origin. (1) The straight head arises from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium; (2) the reflected head springs from a rough groove on the dorsum ilii just above the highest part of the acetabulum. A bursa lies beneath this head of origin. The two heads, bound, together and connected to the capsule of the hip-joint by a band of fascia derived from the under surface of the tensor fasciie femoris (ilio-tibial band), give rise to a single tendon which extends for some distance on tlie front of the nmscle, and from which the muscular fibres arise. The muscular fibres springing from this tendon, and also from a median septal tendon, present a bipennate arrangeinent, and end- below in a broad tendon which passes upwards for some distance along the posterior surface of the muscle. This tendon gradually narrows towards the knee, and spreading out again, is inserted into the upper border of the patella. It receives