THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 408 The pubo-cavernosus is an occasional slip arising from the pubic ramus, and inserted into the dorsum of the penis. It corresponds to the levator jjenis of lower animals. The compressor urethrse (constrictor urethrte) constitutes the deeper muscular stratum of the perineum. It is placed on the pelvic aspect of the triangular ligament. It arises from the lower part of the pubic ramus, and is directed inwards, its fibres radiating so as to enclose the membranous urethra. It is inserted into a median raphe, partly in front of the urethra, l)ut for the most part behind it. The fibres most intimately related to the urethra form a tul)ular sheath for the canal, and have no bony attachments. The most anterior and most posterior fibres of the compressor urethrte exist sometimes as separate muscles. The transversus perinei profundus consists of a bundle of fibres on eitlier side, arising from the ascending ramus of the iscliiimi just below the compressor urethrse. It is inserted into a median raphe continuous with that of the compressor urethra;. The muscle in fact constitutes a separate bundle below and behind the compressor lu-ethrse. The ischio-pubicus is a £erm applied to a feeble bundle of fibres whicli, when present, lies above and in front of the compressor urethra;. It arises from the pubic ramus, and is inserted into a median raphe in front of the membranous urethra. This muscle is homologous with the compressor vense dorsalis penis of lower animals. The compressor urethrae in the female is smaller than in the male. Its insertion is modified by the relations of the urethra to the vagina. The anterior inent Fig. 302.—The Triangular Ligament of the Perineum, and the Termination of the Pudic Nerve. fibres are continuous with those of the opposite side in front of the urethra; the intermediate fibres pass between the urethra and vagina, and the posterior fibres are attached, along with the transversus perinei profundus (transversus vaginae), into the side of the vagina. Nerve Supply. The pudic nerve (S. 2. 3. 4.) supplies all the muscles in this group; the external sphincter through the inferior hemorrhoidal, and the others through the perineal branch of the nerve. The external sphincter is also sujiplied by the jjerineal branch of the fourth sacral nerve. Actions. Tlie external sphincter closes the anal canal. The transversus perinei superficialis draws back and fixes the central point of the perineum, assisted by tlie external spliincter. Tlie bulbo- cavernosus of the male constricts the bulb and corpus spongiosum, and so expresses the last drops