THE DKiESTiVE SYSTEM. 1024 7- The rectum, the terminal part of the large bowel, succeeds the pelvic colon, and ends at the anal orifice. In its course the large bowel is arranged in an arched manner around the small intestine, which lies within the concavity of its curve (Fig. 670). In length, the great intestine is equal.to about one-fifth of the whole intestinal canal, and usmdly measures 1)etween 5 and b'^ feet (180 to 195 cm.). Itshreadth is greatest at the caicum, and from this—with the exception of a dilatation at the rectum—it gradually decreases to the anus. At the ctecum it measures, when distended, about '.i inches (75 ram.) in diameter; l)eyond this it gradually diminishes, and measures only Ih inch (37 mm.) or less in the descending ami iliac divisions of the colon. The large intestine, with the exception of the rectum and vermiform appendix, may be easily distinguished from the regularly e}'lindrical small intestine by (rt) the presence of three longitudinal l)ands—the taeniae coli—running along its surface (Fig. 692); (/>) by the, fact tliat its walls are sacculated; and (c) l;)y the presence of numerous little peritoneal processes, known as appendices epiploicae, projecting from its serous coat. In addition, the larger intestine is usually wider than the small, but too much reliance cannot lie placed on this character, for the jejunum is often—indeed, generally—wider than the empty descending colon. Taeniae Coli.—In the lar^e bowel, unlike the small, the lonijitudinal filjres of the luuscular coat do not form a complete layer, continuous all round the tube. Appendices epiploica' Vui. 692.—Large Intestine. A piece ol' transverse colon from a eliild two years old. The three cliief characteristics of tlie haye intestiiu— saccnlations, ta^niw, anil appendices epiploica'—are shown. but, on the contrary, are broken up (Fig. 692) into three bands, known as the taeniae coli. I'hese bands, which are about ^ inch (6 nun.) wide, begin at the base of the vermiform appendix, and run along the surface of the gut at nearly equal distances from one another until the rectum is reached. Here they spread out and form a layer of longitudinal muscular fibres, which is continuous all round the tube (see page lO^Ui). The liands are about one-sixth shorter than the intestine to which they belong; consequently, in order to accommodate the bowel to the length of the ta,'nite, the gut is tucked up, giving rise to a sacculated condition (Fig. 692). Three rows of pouches or saccules are thus produced, along the length of the tube, between the tsemse. If the tienise be dissected off, the sacculations disappear, the intestine becomes cylindrical, and at the same time about one-sixth longer. The appendices epiploicae (Fig. 692) are little processes or pouches of peritoneum, generally more or less distended with fat, except in emaciated subjects, which project from the serous coat along the whole length of the large intestine, with the exception of the rectum proper. When the interior of a piece of distended and dried large intestine is e.Kamined, its saccules appear as rounded pouches (haustra), separated by crescentic folds (plica; semilunares coli), ooiTcsponding to the creases on the exterior separating the saccules from one another. TIk- posit iciii ol' tlie three tsenire on the intestines i.s as follows :—On tlie ascending, descending, and iliac colons one ta-nia lies on the anterior aspect of the gut, and two behind, namely, one to the outeJ- (jtostero-external), the other to the inner side (postero-internal). It is chietly along