1135 THE VAGINA. projects into the vagina, a deeper recess is formed between the vaginal wall and the cervix behind, than in front or laterally. The term anterior fornix is often applied to the angle or recess in front of the cervix uteri, and posterior fornix to the deeper angle formed behind the cervix. The anterior vaginal wall (paries anterior) is shorter than the posterior (paries posterior), the former being about three inches in length, the latter about three and a half inches. At its lower end the vagina opens into the urogenital cleft, the opening being situated Ijehind the orifice of the urethra and the clitoris, and between the labia minora. The opening is partly closed in the virgin by a thin crescentic or annular fold called Posterior superinr iliac spine Apex of sacrum Great sciatic iiotcli Rectum Peritoneum Ureter Ischial spine Uterine artery Bladder wall Ureter Levator ani Sacro-sciatic ligament Iscliio-rectal fossa Tuber isclui Gluteus maxinius Hecto-vaginal pouch Vaginal wall Rectum Fig. 777. -The Vagina, Base op Bladder, and Reoto-vaginal Pouch ov Pehitoneum, seen from behind. Tlie coccyx and saoi-o-sciatic ligaments, together witli the muscles attached to tliem, have been removed. The levatores ani have been separated along the median raphe, and drawn outwards. A considerable portion of the rectum has been removed, but the position which it occupied is indicated by the dotted lines. The peritoneum is indicated by a blue colour. The recto-vaginal pouch is probably not quite so deep as usual. the hymen, torn fragments of which persist round the opening, as the carunculse hymenales, after the fold itself has Ijeen ruptured. Relations of the Vagina.—The anterior wall of the vagina in its upper part lies against the base of the bladder, but is separated from it by loose connective tissue. Lower down, the anterior wall in the mesial line.is intimately connected with the urethra (Fig. 776). Near the middle line the posterior wall, in its upper portion, is covered for a distance of about a quarter of an inch by the peritoneum, which here forms the anterior boundary of the deepest part of the pouch of