THE DUODENUM. 1017 and below it with the coils of the small intestine. Behind, it is connected by areolar tissue to the inner part of the right kidney, with its ureter and renal vessels; it is also related, as a rule, to the right psoas muscle below the kidney (Fig. 687). To its outer or right side lies the liver (here presenting the duodenal impres- sion) above, and often the ascending colon below. To its inner side are the inferior \'ena cava and the head of the pancreas, this latter overlapping it somewhat in front. The common bile duct, after passing down behintl the first portion of the duodenum, descends l_)etween the head of the pancreas and the second portion, nearly as far as its middle; here it is joined I ty the pancreatic duct, and the two, Top of small sac. Inferior vena cava IjRsser omeiitinii (cut) \ Right lateral ligament of r^eft lateral ligament of livi-i- / aisO]ihageal opening in diaphragm Gastro-]ihrenic ligament / Corresponils to ' nncovered area ' of stomach lenic omentum (cut) I'l'au sverse colon crossing duodenum / Head of pancreas Great omentum (cut) Part of small sac eno-colic liganjeut eft end of transverse mesocolon Splenic flexure of colon Transverse mesocolon (cut) Koofc of mesentery (cut) Fi(i. 688.—The Peritoneal Relations of the Duodenum, Pancreas, Spleen, Kidneys, etc. From a Iwily liardeneil by injections of formalin. In removing the liver, .stomach, and intestines the lines o[' the peritoneal reHexions were carefully preserved. The peritonenm is coloured blue. piei'cing the wall of the duodenum obliquely, open by a common orifice on its inner aspect, about 3i to 4 inches ■(8-7 to 10 cm.) beyond the pylorus. Peritoneal relations.—There is no peritoneum on the posterior or deep "surface of this part, whilst its superficial or anterior surface is covered, except where it is crossed l)y the colon (Fig. 688). Wlien the beginning of tlie ti'aiisver.se colon is completely covered liy ])ei-itoneuni, and has a mesentery (a condition which often seems to be determined by a liver large in the vertical direc- tion), the whole of the anterior surface, with the exception of the insignificant area between the two layers of the transverse mesocolon, is coA'ered by the peritoneum. On the other hand, when this part of the colon has no mesentery, it lifts the peritoneum off the front of the duodenum, and leaves a considerable "uncovered area," which is united by areolar tissue to the back of the colon.