THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 570 The main trunk, after piercing tlie complexus and trapezius, accompanies the occipital artery to tlie scalp as the great occipital nerve (n. occipitalis major). This is the chief cutaneous nerve for the back part of the scalp. It enters the superficial fascia at the level of the superior c\irved line of the occipital bone and about an inch from the external occipital protuberance. Ramifying over the surface, it supplies the skin of the scalp as far as the vertex. It communicates on Iiispi tioii of stpnio- mastoiil Splonius capiti Traclielo-iiiastniil Complexus Lkast occipitai. nerve Splpnins capitis Trachelo-inastoid— ' >ccipital attachment of J J U'apezius 'f^— Insei'tioii of complexus YiKEAT OCCIPITAL NERVE (Jbliquus superior Rectus capitis jiosticus major Rectus capitis posticus minor . Vertebral artery Suboccipital nerve Posterior arch of altas Obliquus inferior Posterior division of second cervical NERVE Posterior division op third cervical NERVE Deep cervical artery Posterior division of fourth cervical NERVE Fig. 423.—The Sub-occh'ital Triangle. tlie scalp with the following nerves: great auricular, small occipital, posterior auricular, and least occipital. The muscular branches of the second cervical nerve are destined for the com- plexus, obliquus inferior, semispinalis colli, and multifidus spina?. Its communicating branches form the posterior cervical plexus. Descending over the posterior arcli of the atlas is a branch from the suboccipital nerve which forms a loop or network with a corresponding branch of the second nerve. From this loop twigs are supplied to the surrounding muscles. A similar loop is formed by a communication between branches of the second and third nerves from which muscles are also supplied. Occasionally a similar loop is formed between branches of the third and fourth nerves. Third Cervical Nerve.—Tins is much smaller than the second cervical nerve. Near its origin it forms a loop of communication with the second nerve, and it may give ofi'a similar communicating branch to the fourth nerve. The main trunk divides into internal cutaneous and external muscular bi-anches. The external muscular branch enters contiguous muscles; the internal cutaneous branch passes backwards and inwards, and becomes superficial as the third or least occipital nerve (n. occipi- talis minimus), close to the middle line of the neck. It supplies line branches to the neck and scalp, and communicates with the great occipital nerve. The fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical nerves are still smaller. Beneath the complexus each divides into external muscular and internal cutaneous branches. The muscular branches siipply neighbouring muscles; the cutaneous branches are small nerves, which, passing backwards, become superficial close to the middle line. They supply the skin of the back of the neck. The sixth is the smallest, and its