UliOGENlTAL SYSTEM. 1102 muscle fibres which, near the urethral orifice, ruu circularly iu a horizontal direction. These form a distinct layer over the base of the bladder and iu the region of the urethral orifice, but elsewhere the bundles of fibres are separated from one another by considerable intervals, and are directed obliquely. The circular fibres in the region of the urethral orifice are sometimes described as forming a sphincter vesicae. The inner stratum (stratum internum) is a thin layer of fibres directed for the most part longitudinally. The submucous coat (tela submucosa) is composed of areolar tissue, Init contains numerous fine clastic fibres. The mucous coat (tunica mucosa) is loosely attached, through the submucous layei', to the subjacent nuiscular coat, except over the trigonum vesica;. Over the trigonum it is always smooth and flat; elsewhere it is thrown into folds when the organ is empty. The mucous membrane of the bladder is continuous with that of the ureters and urethra. The epithelium covering it varies much in appearance in different conditions of the organ, and is of the variety known as transitional stratified epithelium. Vessels and Nerves of the Bladder.—Tlie bladder receives it.s Ijlood sujjply on each side tVom the superior and inferior vesical arteries. The sujierior vesical artery arises from the pervious part of tlie hypogastric ai'tery, and the inferior vesical from the internal iliac. The largest veins are found just above the prostate, and iu the region where the ureter reaches the Ijladder. They form a dense plexus which poiu's its blood into tributaries of the internal iliac vein, and comnuniicates below witli the prostatic plexus. The lymphatics from the Ijladder join the iliac group of glands. The nerve suppl}' of the bladder is derived on each side from the vesical plexus, the fibres of which come from two sources, iiamely (1) from the upper lumbar nerves through the hy])ogastric plexus, and (2) from the third and fourth sacral nerves. The fibres from the latter souri'es join the vesical plexus directly. THE URETHRA. The urethra is the channel which serves to convey tlie urine from the bliulder to the exterior. In the male it consists of two portions, a proximal part, less than one inch iu length, extending from the bladder to the points where the ducts of the reproductive glands join the canal, and a much longer distal portion whicli serves as a common passage for the secretion of the kidneys and for the generative products. An account of the male urethra follows the description of the male reproductive glands and passages (see p. 1119). In the female the uretlira is more simple in its arrangement, and represents only the proximal part of the male uretlira. It is a short passage leatling from the bladder to the external urethral orifice—an aperture placed within the urogenital cleft immediately above and in front of the opening of the vagiiui. Female Urethra.—The female urethra (urethra niuliebris) is a canal of one to one and a half inches in length, which follows a slightly curved direction down- wards and forwards, l)elow aiul behind the lower Ijorder of the symphysis pubis. As it leaves the pelvis the urethra pierces the triangular ligament, and the part of the passage which lies between the deep and superficial layers of this ligament is sur- rounded by the fibres of the compressor urethrcB muscle. Except during the passage of fluid tlie canal is closed by the apposition of its anterior and pt)Sterior walls. The external orifice (orificium urethra; externum) is placed between the labia minora, immediately iu front of the opening of the vagina, and lies about one inch below and behind the clitoris (Fig. 778). The opening is slit-like, and is bounded by slightly marked lateral lips. The posterior wall of the uretlira, except in its upper part, is intimately connected with the anterior wall of the vagina. The mucotis lining of the canal is raised into a number of slight!}' marked longitudinal folds, one of which, more distinct tlian the others, and placed upon the ])()Sterior wall of the passage, receives the name of crista urethralis. Structure.—The muscular coat of the urethra (tunica nmscularis) is continuous above with that of the bladder, and composed of layers of circularly and longitudinally disposed muscle fibres. Within the nuiscular coat the wall of the urethra is very vascular, and the canal itself is lined by a pale mucous membrane which is thrown into longitudinally- directed folds, one of which is the crista urethralis mentioned above. The epithelium of the canal, in its upper part, is of the transitional variety, like that of the l)ladder; in its lower part, however, it becomes scaly. Numerous mucous glands (glandulsc urethrales)