THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 828 major. It receives the left bronchial veins, some small posterior mediastinal veins also open into it, and it communicates Avith the left superior intercostal vein. The vena azygos minor inferior (v. hemi-azygos) commences in the epigastric region. At its origin it is connected either with the left ascending lumbar vein or with the left renal vein. After piercing the left cms of the diaphragm it ascends on the left sides of the bodies of the lower dorsal vertebra), and opposite the eighth dorsal vertebra it turns to the right, crosses the front of the spine behind the aorta, oesophagus, and thoracic duct, and terminates in the vena azygos major. As it ascends in the posterior mediastinum it lies internal to the sympathetic cord, behind the roots of the splanchnic nerves, and superficial to the lower left intercostal arteries. Through the left ascending lumbar vein it receives blood from the upper lumbar veins of tlie left side ; the lower four posterior intercostal veins, the left subcostal vein, and small mediastinal tributaries also terminate in it. Not infrequently the upper and lower minor azj'gos veins unite, opposite the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra, to form a common trunk which terminates in the azygos major. The bronchial veins do not quite correspond to the bronchial arteries, and they are not found on the walls of the smallest bronchi. On each side the tributaries run in front of and behind the bronchial tubes to the root of the lung, where they unite', as a rule, into two small trimks; those of the right side open into the vena azygos major, and those of the left into the vena azygos minor superior, or into the left superior intercostal vein. On both sides they are joined by tracheal and posterior mediastinal veins. Some few small bronchial veins, including most of those from the smaller tubes, open into the pulmonary veins. Intercostal Veins.—There are two sets of intercostal veins (vv. intercostales), the anterior and the posterior. The anterior intercostal veins are tributaries of the internal mammary or of the musculo-phrenic veins, and arc described Avith those vessels (p. 829). The posterior intercostal veins (Fig. 592) are eleven in number on each side. A single vein runs in each intercostal space ; it is situated in the subcostal groove above the corresponding arter}-. On the right side the posterior intercostal vein of the first space accompanies the superior intercostal artery across the front of the neck of the first rib, and terminates in the vertebral or innominate vein. The second, third, and fourth intercostal veins of the right side unite together to form a common trunk, the right superior intercostal vein (v. intercostalis suprema dextra), which terminates by joining the vena azygos major. Tlie fifth to the eleventh posterior intercostal veins of the right side open separately in the vena azygos major. On the left side the first posterior intercostal vein follows a course similar to that taken by the corresponding vein on the right side, and terminates in the left vertebral or innominate vein. The second, third, and fourth posterior intercostal veins of the left side unite to form the left superior intercostal vein (v. intercostalis suprema sinistra), which runs from behind forwards along the left and anterior aspect of the aortic arch. It passes obli(|uely between the left vagus and phrenic nerves, crosses the root of the left subclavian artery, and ends in the lower part of the left innominate vein. The fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth posterior intercostal veins of the left side terminate in the vena azygos minor superior, and the nintli, tenth, and eleventh in the vena azygos minor inferior. Each posterior intercostal vein is provided with valves, both at its termination and along its course, which prevent the blood flowing towards the anterior aspect of the thoracic wall. Its tributaries are derived from the adjacent muscles and bones, and a short distance from its termination it receives a dorsal tributary which passes forwards to it between the transverse processes of the vertebrae. This dorsal vessel is formed by the union of small veins which issue from the muscles of the back, from the anterior and postei'ior spinal plexuses which lie respectively in front of the bodies and behind the arches of the vertebrae, and by venous channels which issue through the intervertebral foi'amina ; the latter vessels commence in the spinal canal, where they are connected with the anterior and posterior spinal veins. The Innominate Veins. The innominate or brachio-cephalic veins (vv. auouymte dextra et sinistra, Figs. 551 and. 552), two in number, right and left, return blood from the head and neck, the upper extremities, the upper part of the posterior wall of the thorax, the