OSTEOLOGY. 68 life :- The table represents the number of bones distinct and separable during adult Axial skeleton The ossicles of the ear Single Bones. Pairs. Total. The vertebral column 26 26 The skull 6 8 22 The sternum I 1 I The ribs . 12 24 The hyoid bone : 1 1 The upper limbs . V 32 64 The lower limbs ••\ 31 62 3 6 34 86 206 Bones are often classified according to their shape. Thus long bones, that is to say, bones of elongated cylindrical form, are more or less characteristic of the limbs. Broad or flat bones are plate-like, and serve as protective coverings to the structures they overlie: the bones of the cranial vault display this particular form. Other bones, such as the carpi;s and tarsus, are termed short bones ; whilst the bones of the cranial base, the face, and the vertebrae, are frequently referred to as irregular bones. Various descriptive terms are applied to the prominences commonly met with on a bone, such as tuberosity, eminence, protuberance, process, tubercle, spine, ridge, crest, and line. These may be articular in their nature, or may serve as points or lines of muscular and ligamentous attachment. The surface of the bone may be excavated into pits, depressions, fossae, cavities, furrows, grooves, and notches. These may be articular or non-articular, the latter serving for the recep- tion of organs, tendons, ligaments, vessels, and nerves. In some instances the substance of the bone is hollowed out to form an air space, sinus, or antrum. Bones are traversed by foramina and canals; these may be for the entrance and exit of nutrient vessels, or for the transmission of vessels and nerves from one region to another. A cleft, hiatus, or fissure serves the same purpose. Channels of this kind are usually placed in the line of a suture, or correspond to the line of fusion of the primitive portions of the bone which they pierce. Composition of Bone.—Bone is composed of a combination of organic and inorganic substances in about the proportion of one to two. Organic matter (Fat Collagen) Mineral matter— Calcic phosphate . Calcic carbonate . Calcic fluoride Magnesic phosphate Sodic chloride 58-231 7-32 1-41 1-32 •69 31-04 68-97 100-00 The animal matter may be removed by boiling or charring. According to the completeness with which the fibrous elements have been withdrawn, so the brittle- ness of the bone increases. When subjected to high temperatures the earthy matter alone remains. By soaking a bone in acid the salts may be dissolved out, leaving only the organic part. The shape of the bone is still retained, though it has now become soft, and can be bent about in any direction. Bone may be examined either in the fresh or dry condition. In the former state it retains all its organic parts, which include the fibrous tissue in and around it, the blood-vessels and their contents, together with the cellular elements found within the substance of the bone itself, and the marrow which occupies the lacunar spaces and marrow cavity. In the dried or macerated bone most of these have disappeared, though a considerable portion of the organic matter still remains, even in bones of great antiquity and in a more or less fossil condition. Con- sidering its nature and the amount of material employed, bone possesses a remark-