169 THE NASAL SEPTUM. between which anteriorly there is au angular recess into which the cartilaginous septum fits. Superiorly and anteriorly the osseous septum is completed by the articulation of the perpen- Frontal sinus Perpendicular plate 111 ethnioi Nasal spine of frontal Crista galli of ethmoid Cribriform plate of ethmoid Sphenoidal sinus Pituitary fossa Dorsum sell» of sphenoid Vomer External pterygoid plate Hamular process Anterior palatine foramen Fig. 119.—Nasal Septum as seen from the Left Side. dicular plate of the ethmoid with the nasal process of the frontal, together with the nasal crest formed by the union of the nasal bones; whilst posteriorly and superi- orly the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid articulates with the mesial ethmoidal crest of the sphenoid. In most instances the osseous septum is not perfectly vertical, but is deflected towards one or other side. Air-sinuses in connex- ion with the Nasal Fossae. —Connected with the nasal fossae are a number of air- sinuses. These are found within the body of the sphenoid, the lateral mass of the ethmoid, the orbital process of the palate bone, the body of the superior maxilla, and the superciliary arch of the frontal bone. The sphenoidal sinus, of variable size, occupies the interior of the body of the sphenoid. In some cases it extends towards the roots of the pterygoid processes. In front it is formed in part by the absorption of the sphenoidal spongy bones, and is divided up into two cavities by a sagittally-placed partition, which, however, is frequently displaced to one or other side. It opens anteriorly into the roof of the nose in the region of the spheno-ethmoidal recess. The ethmoidal sinuses are placed between the lateral aspects of the upper part of the nasal fossae, and the cavities of the orbit, from which they are separated by thin and papery walls. These air spaces are completed by the articulation of the ethmoid with the superior maxilla, lachrymal, frontal sphenoid, and palate bones, and are divided into three groups—an anterior, middle, and posterior. The latter communicates with the superior meatus; the anterior and middle open either inde- pendently or in conjunction with the infundibulum into the middle meatus. The sinus in the orbital process of the palate bone either communicates with the sphenoidal sinus, or else assists in closing in some of the posterior ethmoidal cells. Its communication with the nasal fossa is through one or other of these spaces. The maxillary sinus or antrum of Highmore lies to the outer side of the nasal fossEe, occupying the body of the superior maxilla. Its walls, which are relatively thin, are directed upwards to the orbit, forwards to the face, backwards to the zygomatic and spheno-maxillary fossa, and inwards to the nose. In the latter situation the vertical plate of the palate bone, the uncinate process of the ethmoid, the maxillary process of the inferior turbinated bone, and a small part of the lach- rymal bone assist in the formation of the thin osseous partition which separates it from the nasal fossa. The floor corresponds to the alveolar border of the jaw, and differs from the other walls in being stout and thick ; it is, however, deeply pitted inferiorly by the alveoli for the teeth. The antrum opens by a narrow orifice into the middle meatus. The frontal sinuses lie, one on either side, between the inner and outer tables of the frontal bone over the root of the nose, and extend outwards under the super- ciliary arches. The partition which separates them is usually central, though it