1039 THE EECTUM. In this condition it occupies only a small portion of the posterior division of the pelvic cavity- near the mesial plane, and at each side, between it and the lateral wall of the pelvis, is a large fossa of the peritoneum (the pararectal fossa, p. 1051), which, when the howel is empty, contains a mass of small intestine or pelvic colon (Figs. 701 and 703). Wlien the rectum is distended the lateral flexures become much more marked, and the gut, projecting alternately to each side, passes out Ijeneath the peritoneum, oliliterating the pararectal fosste (Fig. 702), and fills the greater part of tlie posterior division of the pelvis—a condition which could not )je brought about with a straight rectum without an enormous increase in all the diameters of the tube. According to Jonnesco, the rectum liegins—that is, the pelvic mesocolon ceases—most frequently opposite tlie disc between the tliird and fourth sacral vertebrae. It is our experience that the mesocolon ends more frequentlv aljo\'e than below the third sacral vertelira—often, indeed, at the level of the second. At its ujjper end tlie rectum, following the curve of the sacrum, slopes downwards and at the same time slightly liackwards; its middle portion is practically vertical, but the terminal third or more is directed downwards and forwards at an angle varying from 45° to 60" with the horizontal. The pelvic floor, upon Mdiicli this latter part rests, forms here a similar angle with the horizontal. The bend which the bowel makes behind the lower end of the prostate, where the rectunr passes into the anal canal, is, as pointed out above, abrujit, and usually approaches a right angle, so that the anal canal itself slopes downwards and backwards at an angle of nearly 45° with the horizontal. Not uncommonly the abrupt curve, at the junction of the rectum with the anal canal, presents in front a knuckle-like projection (well seen on mesial section), immediately above the canal. It is most marked in females, and sometimes appears as if the bowel were doubled back upon itself at this j.ioint. The floor of the ])ouch thus formed may dip down in front, even below the level of the upjjer aperture of the anal canal (Fig. 744). This wmdition is most common in multi- parse, and is evidently due to tlie relaxed condition of the j^elvic structures, and the slight support afforded by the perineal Ijody to this jjart of the gut in these, and the great capacity and shallowness of the pelvis in tlie female. In length the rectum usually measures about 5 or G inches (12-5 to 15-0 cm.), 1)ut it may be much longer. Its diameter is smallest above, near the junction with the pelvic colon, and is greatest l^elow, near the anal canal, where there is a special enlargement known as the rectal ampulla (ampulla recti). When empty the rectum measures little over an inch (2'5 cm.) in diameter, but in a state of extreme distension it may be as much as 3 inches (7'5 cm.) in width. Peritoneal Relations of the Rectum (Figs. 703 and 749).—As a rule the upper two-thirds of the rectum lias a partial covering of peritoneum—in front and at the sides at first, later on in front only—whilst tlie lower third has no peritoneal investment whatsoever. When the mesocolon ceases at the end of the pelvic colon, its two layers separate and leave the back of the rectum destitute of peritoneum. Very soon the membrane quits its sides also, and is then found on the front only; so that the greater part of the rectum lies liehind or beneath the pelvic peritoneum, as it were, and is capable of expanding and contracting without being in any way hampered by its partial peritoneal coat. From the front of the rectum the peritoneum is carried forwards to the l)ase of the bladder in the male, forming the iioor of the recto-vesical or recto-genital pouch (excavatio recto-vesicalis, Fig. 749). In the female it passes to the upper part of the posterior wall of the vagina, forming the floor of the pouch of Douglas (excavatio recto-uterina Douglasi, Fig. 744). Whilst at each side, in botli sexes, it passes from the front of the rectum on to the posterior wall of the pelvis, forming the bottom of a large fossa, seen at the sides of the rectum when that bowel is empty, and known as the pararectal fossa. With distension this fossa is encroached upon by the enlarging bowel, and soon is obliterated. The level at which the reflection of the peritoneum takes place from the front of the rectum is of considerable practical importance in connexion with operations in this region. As a general rule this reflection, that is the bottom of the recto-vesical pouch, is placed at a distance of 1 inch (2'5 cm.) above the base of the prostate, or about 3 inches above the anus, but the level is subject to considerable variation, being as a rule relatively much higher in well-developed muscular or fatty subjects, whilst it is usually lower in emaciated bodies, owing to the thinness of the structures forming the pelvic floor. The bottom of the recto-vesical fossa may reach down in an extreme case to within an inch (2-5 cm.) of the anus, Avhilst it is not at all rare to find it within 2 inches (5-0 cm.) of that orifice ;