THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 548 the cortex of tlie same heiuis])here. They are ,L>roupecl into long and short associa- tion bundles. The greater number of the short association fibres ])ass between adjacent convolutions. They curve round the l)ottom of the sulci in U-shaped loops. Some of these occupy the deepest part of the gray cortex itself, and are termed intracortical association ^fibres (Fig. 40;!, p. 044); others lie immediately subjacent to the gray mxtter—between it and the general mass of the white matter—and receive the name of subcortical fibres. Many groups of short association fibres, instead of linking together contiguous convolutions, pass between gyri more or less remote. It is only after birth, when intellectual effort and education have stimulated different portions of the cortex to act in harmony and in conjunction with each other, that these association fil)res assume their sheaths of medulla and Ijecome functional. The long association fibres are arranged in bundles which run for considerable distances within the white medullary centre of the cerebral hemisphere, and unite districts of gray cortex which may be far removed from each other. The better known of these fasciculi are the following: (1) the uncinate; (2) the cingulum; (3) the superior longitudinal; (4) the inferior longitudinal; (o) the occipito-frontal. The fasciculus uncinatus is composed of fibres which arch over the stem of the Sylvian fissure and connect the frontal pole, and the orbital convolutions of the frontal lobe, with the front portion of the temporal lobe. The cingulum is a very well-marked and distinct band, wliich is closely associated with tlie linil)ic lobe. Beginning in front, in the region of the anterior perforated spot, it arches round the genu of the corpus callosum and is carried backwards on the upper surface of this structure at the place where its fibres ■i)ass into the FK!. 408.—DlAClRAM OF THE LEADINC ASSOCIATION BUNDLES OF THE CeREBRAI. HEMISPHERE. (Founded on the drawings of Di'jerine.) A. Otitei' aspect of hendspbere. H. Inner aspect nf hemisphere. callosal radiation. The cingulum, therefore, lies under cover of the callosal gyrus and stands in intimate relation to the white centre of this convolution (Fig. 392, p. 529). At the hinder end of the corpus callosum the cingulum turns round the splenium and is carried forwards, in relation to the hippocampal gyrus, to the uncus and the temporal pole. The cingulum is composed of several systems of fibres which only run for short distances within it. Tlie fasciculus longitudinalis superior is an arcuate bundle which is placed on the outer aspect of the foot or basal part of the corona radiata and connects the frontal, occipital, and temporal regions of the hemisphere. It lies in the base of the fronto- parietal operculum and sweeps backwards over the insular region to the posterior end of the Sylvian fissure. Here it bends downwards round the hinder end of the putamen and proceeds forwards in the temporal lobe, to reach its anterior extremity. As it turns downwards to reach the temporal lobe numerous filires radiate from it into the occipital lobe. The fasciculus longitudinalis inferior is a very conspicuous bundle which extends along the whole length of the occipital and temporal lobes (Fig. 392, p. 529). In the occipital lobe it is placed on the outer aspect of the optic radiation, which takes a similar direction and from which it is distinguished by the greater coarseness of its fibres (Figs. 397, p. 535; 400, p. 538; 409, p. 550). It is not present in the macaque monkey (Ferrier and Turner), but is well developed in the orang and the chimpanzee.