ABNORMALITIES OF AETERIES. 899 il. may Ix; coiisi(k-ral>lv above, or iiidi'c i-ircly il may t-piiug diivctly from the bifurcation. Not infrequently it arises from the last lumbar artery or from a stem common to the two last lumbar arteries, and occasionallj' it arises li'diii a common or internal iliac artery. Some- times it apparently gives off the last ])air of luml)ar arteries, and very occasionally an accessory, renal, or a liajniorrhoidal branch arises fj'om it. Tlie vessel is not always present, it may be doulile, entirely or in part, and it may l.)ifurcate at its termination. The renal arteries frequently deviate fi'om tin- noi'mal ariangement. The arteries of opposite sides may spring from a common stem, or theiv may br two or more renal arteries on one or both sides. The accessory arteries are more commou on the left than on the right side, and an accessory artery rising above the ordinary vessel is more common than one rising below it. Accessory renal arteries may be derived not only from the aorta, but also from the common or internal iliac arteries ; they have also been described as arising from the inferior phrenic, spermatic, luml)ar, or middle sacral arteries, and even from the external iliac artery. As tin- kidney is developed iu the region of the first sacral vertebra, and aftei'wards ascends to its perma- nent jiosition, it is not surprising that it (iccasionally receives arteries from tlie main stem of more than one of the segments of the body through which it has jiassed, and it is usually found that the lower the 2)osition of the kidney in the abdomen the more likely it is to receive its arteries from the lower part of tlie aorta or from the common iliac arteries. The accessory renal arteries which spring fn>m the inferior jdirenic, the spermatic, and luudjar arteries can onh^ be the result of the persistcnci' and enlargement of anastomosing channels between the renal and either another intermediate \'isceral, or a somatic artery. The spermatic or ovarian arteries may lie double on one or both sides ; the arteries of ojipo- site sides may spring fvoin a common trunk, or they nuxy lise from the renal or sujirarenal arteries. Tlie right artery may i)ass behind instead of in front of the inferior vena cava. The spermatic and 'o\'arian arteries arise from the upper lum))ar portion of the aorta, because the testicles and ovaries are developed in and obtain their arterial supply in that region, and the vessels are elongated as the testicles and ovaries descend to their permanent jiositions. The occurrence of two spermatic arteries on one side is pr(il)alilv an indication that the testicle was (levelo])ed in at least two segments of the liody, and the origin of a s])ermatic artery from a renal or suprarenal aitery is due to the ol)literation of tlie root of the original vessel and the enlarge- ment of an anastomosis lietween the intermediate visceral arteries of adjacent segments. The coeliac axis niay be al)seiit, its lirauclies arising separately from the aorta or from some other source. Sometimes it gi\'es oH' only two branches, usually the coronary and sjdeuic, and occasionally it gives Idur )ii-anches, the additional liranch l)eing either a second coronary artery or a separate gastro-ducxh'ua] artery. The hepatic artery may s])riiig directly from the aorta or from the superior mesenteric artery, and the left hepatic artery o(-casionally arises from the coronary artery. Accessory hepatic arteries are not uncommon, and they originate either from the coronary, sujjerior mesenteric, renal, or inferior mesenteric artery. The coronary artery is occasionally doulile ; it may spring directly from the aorta, and it may give off the left hejiatic or an accessory hepatic artery. Tlie splenic artery may arise from the middle colic, from the left Iiepatic, or from tlie inferior mesenteric artery. The superior mesenteric artery may lie double, and it may sujiply tlie whole of the alimentaiy canal from the second jiart of the duodenum to the end of the rectum, the inferior mesenteric artery being absent. In addition to its ordinary branches it may give off a hejjatic, a sjilenic, a pancreatic, a gastric, a gastro-ejiiploic or a gastro-duodenal branch. Very rarely it gives off an oniplialo-iiiesenteric liranch, which passes to the region of the unilnlicus and becomes connected with capillary vessels in the falciform ligament of the liver. The inferior mesenteric artery may give hepatic, renal, or middle colic branches ; occasion- ally it is absent, being replaced liy lirauclies of the superior mesenteric, and sometimes, as in ruminants and some rodents, its left colic lirancli does not anastomose witli the middle colic artery. All these variations of the unpaired A'isceral branches of the abdominal aorta are merely due to modifications of the usual ju'ocesses l)y which these v essels are developed. The origin of the branches which usually rise from the cojliac axis, from the trunk of the aorta is the result of the I'eteiition of a greater number of the sj^ilanchnic segmental arteries than usual. A double superior mesenteric artery results from the jiersistence of botli the right and left splanchnic vessels from which the superior mesenteric artery is formed, these remaining separate instead of fusing together. All the other variations are the results of the obliteration of the usual channels, combined with the enlargement of anastomoses which exi.st both between the splanchnic arteries of adjacent segments and the splanchnic and intermediate A'isceral arteries. The Arteries of the Head and Neck. Innominate Artery.—From Avhat has already been said with reference to the Ijranchea of the arch of the a(jrta, it will be seen that the innominate artery may be absent. On the other hand there may be two innominate arteries, a right and a left, each ending in corresponding common carotid and subclavian trunks, and the two vessels may themselves arise by a common stem.