MINUTE STRUCTUKE OF A CEREBELLAR FOLIUM. 475 most cliaracteristic are the basket-cells, which lie in the deeper part of the hxyer. In addi- tion to numerous dendrites the basket-cell gives oft' an axon, which runs transversely, as regards the long axis of the folium, between the planes of adjacent dendritic arborisations of the cells of Purkinje. At first very fine these axons gradually become coarse and thick, and at intervals they give oft" collaterals, which run towards the bodies of the cells of Purkinje. Keaching these, they break up into an enormous number of fine terminal branches, which enclose the cells of Purkinje, as well as the short non-medullated portions of their axons, in a close basket-work of fine filaments. The granular layer is, for the most pai-t, composed of large numbers of small granule-like bodies closely packed together. Each of these possesses a somewhat large nucleus, with a very small amount of surrounding protoplasm. From the cell body three or four, or perhaps five, dendrites and one axon proceed. The dendrites are short and radiate out from dift'erent aspects of the cell body. They end in tufts of claw-like twigs, which either embrace or are otherwise in contact with neighbouring granule-cells. The whole multitude of granule-cells, therefore, are brought into intimate connexion with each other. The axon passes into the molecular layer, in which it ends at a varying distance from the surface by dividing into two 'branches. These diverge so sharply from each other that they almost form a right angle with the parent stem, and they run parallel to the long- axis of the folium, threading their way between the branches of the various dendritic planes of the cells of Purkinje and entering into contact association with them. When the great number of granule-cells is borne in mind, and the fact that each sends an axon into the molecular layer, the important part which these fibres, with their longitudinal branches, take in building up the molecular layer will be understood. They are found pervading its entire thickness—from the surface down to the bodies of the cells of Purkinje. Near the cells of Purkinje a few scattered cells are seen in the granular layer of a different kind. These are much larger than the ordinary granule-cells, and are probably of the nature of association cells. They are stellate in form, and have numerous long branching dendrites and an axon which divides up in the granular layer to a singular extent. The white centre of the folium gradually becomes thinner as it approaches the summit. P- Cell of Purkinje. This is due to the fibres which compose it S^- Granule cells. ,1, . • ,1 ,, ,1 (. Axon 01 a grannie cell, gradually entermg the gray matter on the surface, ^i. Axons of granule cells in molecular layer. These fibres are of three kinds, viz. : (1) axons of the cells of Purkinje; (2) fibres which apparently end in the granular layer; and (3) fibres which end in the molecular layer. The axons of the cells of Purkinje are medullated fibres which, entering the white centre of the folium, form a not inconsiderable part of it. The fibres which end in the granular layer are called moss-fibres. This name is applied to them because, in the granular layer, they pi'esent at certain points moss-like thickenings, from which short I'ough twigs proceed. The fibres which proceed into the molecular layer give oft' few or perhaps no branches as they traverse the granular layer. In the deeper part of the molecular layer they break up into varicose branches, which twine around the primary and secondary stems of the Purkinje dendrites. Entering into the constitution of the molecular layer are the following elements : (1) dendrites of the cells of Purkinje ; (2) basket-cells and somewhat smaller cells nearer the surface ; (3) axons of the granule-cells, with their longitudinally arranged branches ; (4) the terminations of certain fibres from the white core of the folium, which end in contact with the Purkinje dendrites. In the granular layer are found: (1) granule-cells; (2) larger stellate association cells ; (3) axons of the cells of Purkinje ; (4) moss-fibres ; (5) fibres traversing this layer, to end in the molecular layer. Fig. 353.—Section thuough the Molecular AND Ghandlar Layers in the Long Axis OF A Cerebellar Folium (after Kfilliker), Treated by the Golgi nietliod.