632 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. The lumbo-sacral plexus shows a very considerable variability in position and constitution. Eisler records concomitant variations in the plexus in 18 per cent of the cases examined by him. The variations occur within wide limits. The plexus may begin at the eleventh or twelfth thoracic or first lumbar nerve. The last nerve in the great sciatic cord may be the second, third, or fourth sacral nerve. The position of the n. furcalis is a guide to the arrange- ment of the plexus. It may be formed by the third, third and fourth, fourth, fourth and fifth, or fifth lumbar nerves. The resulting variations are illustrated by the following extreme cases :— (1) Prefixed Variety. (2) Posffixed Variety. Nervus furcalis . . . L. 3 and 4 (double) L. 5. Obturator Anterior crural Tibial Peroneal L. 1, 2, 3. L. 2, 3, 4, 5. T. 12, L. 1, 2, 3, 4. L. 2, 3, 4, 5. L. 3, 4, 5, S. 1, 2. L. 5, S. 1, 2, 3, 4. L. 3, 4, 5, S. 1. L. 5, S. 1, 2, 3. Those variations in the constitution of the lumbo-sacral plexus are most nvimerous which are due to the inclusion of nerves more caudally placed. Thus, out of twenty-two variations in the jjosition of the n. furcalis, in nineteen Eisler found it formed by the fifth lumbar nerve ; in two cases only, by the third lumbar nerve. There is further evidence that variations in the position of the plexus are accompanied by variations in the vertebral column itself. Out of the twenty-two abnormal j^lexuses examined by Eisler, sixteen were coincident with abnormal arrangement of the associated vertebrae. " Significance of the Limb-plexuses. From the above considerations, it is obvious that something more than convenience of transit for the spinal nerves to skin and muscles is secured by the formation of the limb-plexuses. It has been shown that by their combinations in the plexuses, every spot or area of skin in the limbs is innervated by more than one spinal nerve ; and generally, also, each limb-muscle is supplied by more than one spinal nerve. Each cutaneous area and each limb-muscle is thus brought into relationship with a wider area of the spinal cord than would occur if the plexuses were non-existent. A simultaneous record of sensation is thus transmitted from any given point on the surface of the limb through more than one dorsal root; and a more ready co-ordination of muscular movement is brought about by the transmission of motor impulses from the ventral root of a given spinal nerve to more than one muscle at the same time. In a word, a plexus exists to supply the whole limb and the limb as a whole, as an organ which has its different active parts connected with the central nervous system by means of the limb-iilexus. THE CRANIAL NERVES. There are twelve pairs of cranial nerves. They present striking differences from one another—in origin, in distribution, and in functions, as will be seen in the following table :— Number. Name. Function. Superficial Attach- ment to Brain. I. Olfactory . Smell Olfactory bulb. II. Optic Sight . . Optic thalamus. III. Oculo-motor Motor to the muscles of eyeball and Crus cerebri. orbit IV. Trochlear . Motor to superior oblique muscle of Superior medullary eyeball velum. V. Trigeminal Sensory to face, tongue, and teeth; Pons Varolii. motor to muscles of mastication VI. Abducent. Motor to external rectus muscle of Junction of pons and eyeball medulla. VII. Facial Motor to muscles of scalp and face. Posterior border of sensory to tongue pons Varolii. VIII. Auditory . Hearing and equilibrium . Posterior border of pons Varolii. IX. Glosso- Sensory to tongue and jjharyux Medulla oblongata. pharyngeal X. Pneumo- Sensory to pharynx, oesophagus and Medulla oblongata. gastric stomach, and respiratory organs