140 OSTEOLOG-Y. aperture the mental vessels and nerves reach the surface. The upper harder supports the sixteen teeth of the lower jaw. It is thick behind and thinner in front, in correspondence with the size of the roots of the teeth. Anteriorly the sockets of the incisor and canine teeth produce a series of vertical elevations (juga alveolaria), of which that corresponding to the canine tooth is the most prominent. When this is outstanding it gives rise to a hollowing of the surface between it and the symphysis, often referred to as the incisor fossa; frequently, however, this is only faintly marked. Below the external oblique line the bone is full and rounded, and ends below in the inferior border or base. This slopes outwards at the sides, and forwards in front, where it is thick and hollowed out on either side of the symphysis to form the digastric fossae (fossae digastricae), to which the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles are attached; narrowing some- what behind this, the inferior l:)order again ex- pands opposite the molar teeth, and finally becoming reduced in width, terminates posteriorly at the angle formed between it and the posterior border of the ramus. The deep or inner surface of the body is crossed by the internal.obliciue line or mylo-hyoid ridge (linea mylo-hyoidea). This slants from above downwards and forwards towards the lower part of the symphysis. It serves for the origin of the mylo-hyoid mus- cle, and also fur- nishes an attach- ment to the superior constric- tor of the pharynx just behind the last molar tooth. Below the hinder part of this ridge the surface is hollowed to form a fossa for the lodgment of the s u bm a X i 11 ary gland. Above the fore part of the internal oblique line, the bone is smooth and usually convex. Here the sublingual gland lies in relation to it. In the angle formed by the convergence of the two internal oblique lines, and in correspondence with the back of the lower part of the symphysis, there is a raised tubercle surmounted by two laterally placed spines, the mental or genial spines (spinae mentales). Occasionally these are again subdivided into an upper and lower pair, or it may be that the lower pair may fuse to form a rough median ridge. To the upper pair of spines the genio-hyoglossi muscles are attached, whilst the lower pair serve for the origin of the genio-hyoid muscles. Immediately above the tubercle there is a median foramen for the transmission of a nutrient vessel, and close to the alveolar border opposite the intervals between the central and lateral incisors, there are two little vascular canals. The ramus (ramus mandibulae) passes upwards from the back part of the bone, forming by the junction of its posterior border with the base of the body the angle (angulus mandibulae), which is usually rounded and more or less everted. The outer surface of the ramus affords attachment to the masseter muscle, and when 19 18 17 Fig. 111.—The Inner Side op the Right Half of the Lower Jaw. 15. Angle. 16. Fossa for submaxillary gland. 17. Superior constrictor. 18. Internal oblique line. 19. Mylo-hyoid muscle. 13. Mylo-hyoid groove. 20. Digastric muscle. 14. Internal pterygoid muscle. 1. Genio-hyoid muscle 2. Mental spines. 3. Genio-hyoglossus muscle. 8. Coronoid process. 9. Sigmoid notch. 10. External pterygoid muscle. 4. Surface in relation to 11. Condyles. the sublingual gland. 12. Inferior dental foramen. 5. Alveolar border, 6. Lingttla. 7. Temporal muscle, 21. Digastric fossa.