1081 THE KIDNEYS. roLition^hi]) ul" Llie kuliieys t(i the lower two riljs is vciy inconstHut, owing ]);irtly to the great variabiht}' in size and inclination of these bones (Fig. 728). The lower ends of the kidneys a.re situated from 1^ to 2 inches al)Ove the highest part of the crest of the ilium. This distance is, of course, usually greatest on the left side. The kidneys are placed behind the peritoneum, and project into the posterior part of the alxlominal cavity. Each is surrounded l»y a consideral)Ie amount of M.R Fig. 727.—Outline of a Transverse Section throdgh the Body at the Level of the First Lumbar Vertebra. The kidneys are seen one on each side of tlie vertebral column (E). The letter B is placed upon the riglit l<idney, and its intimate relationship to the liver (A) is well seen. The left kidney at this level is closely related to the-spleen (D. J. Cunningham). loose tissue, often loaded with fat, the fatty tissue (capsula adiposa) being present in greater quantity round the margins, and only to a small extent in front of and behind the kidney. In the fat the renal vessels and nerves lie l)efore they enter the organ, and the adipose tissue is contiriued, along with the vessels, through the hllus into the kidney sinus, where it fills up all the space unoccupied by the vessels — and nerves. The kidney is not held in its place l)y any ligaments or special folds of peri- toneum, l)ut its fixation depends, to a large extent, on the pressure and counter- pressure which is exerted upon it by neighbouring structures. The long axis of each kidney is somewhat oljlique, as the upper end of the organ approaches nearer to the middle line than the lower end. The surface of the kidney, which is applied against the muscles forming the posterior wall of the abdomen, looks, as a whole, backwards and inwards, and that which projects into the abdominal cavity looks forwards and outwards. Hence it happens that the outer border of the kidney lies on a posterior plane to the inner border. The kidney is rotated in this manner on its long axis to such a degree that the inner margin and hilus are scarcely visible from behind, and but a limited view of the ■ outer liorder cair be obtained in front (Figs. 729 and 730). Posterior Relations and the Posterior Surface of the Kidney.—The muscles of the posterior abdominal wall on which the kidney rests are the jisoas, the quadratus lumborum, the diaphragm, and the transversalis abdominis. The abdominal surfaces of these muscles do not lie on the same plane, but slope towards one another, and thus the )jed on which the kidney rests is not flat. Tire posterior aspect of the kidney, when in situ, adapts itself to the inequalities of the surface against which it is placed, and so we find on a kidney which has l)een care- fully fixed and hardened before it has been disturl)ed, areas marked off for the different planes of these muscles. When the kidney is in position, ridges or