Ill THE TEMPOEAL BONES. hollow, the glenoid fossa (fossa mandibularis), luuited posteriorly by the tympanic plate, and crossed at its deepest part by an oblique fissure, the Glaserian fissure (fissura petro-tympanica). This cleft, which is closed externally, transmits al;)Out its middle the tympanic branches of the internal maxillary artery, and lodges the slender process of the malleus. At its inner end the lips of this fissure are frequently separated by a thin scale of bone, a downgrowth from the tegmen tympani of the petrous part, which here separates the tympanic from the squamous elements, forming in its descent the major part of the outer wall of the osseous Eustachian canal, which lies immediately internal to it. Between this scale of bone and the posterior edge of the fissure there is a small canal (canal of Huguier), which transmits the chorda tympani nerve. The part of the glenoid fossa in fron,t of the fissure articulates with the condyle of the inferior maxilla, through the medium of the interarticular cartilage, which is here interposed and rests as well on the tuberciihmi articulare. Anteriorly the part of the fossa behind the fissure is non- Fio. 85.—Right Tejipoeal Bone as seen from the Ooteb Side. articular and lodges a portion of the parotid gland. At the angle formed by the divergence of the two roots of the zygoma, in correspondence with the outer part of the articular eminence, there is a rounded tubercle; to this are attached the fibres of the external lateral ligament of the temporo-mandibular joint. In front of the inner end of the articular eminence there is a small triangular surface, limited in front by the edge of the anterior root, and internally by a thick serrated margm which articulates with the outer side of the great wing of the sphenoid; this area forms part of the roof of the zygomatic fossa. Just anterior to the external auditory meatus and projecting downwards from the under surface of the posterior root there is a conical process, called the post-glenoid tubercle, which forms a prominent anterior lip to the external extremity of the Glaserian fissure; it is the representative in man of a process which occurs in some mammals and prevents the backward displacement of the lower jaw. By some anatomists it is referred to as the middle root of the zygoma. The zygomatic process by its lower margin and inner surface gives origin to the masseter muscle, whilst attached to its upper edge are the layers of the temporal fascia. Behind the external auditory meatus, and below the supramastoid crest, the squamous element extends downwards as a pointed process, which assists in forming