1069 cystic duct, aiul is due to a series of cresceiitic folds ])laced soincwliat s])ii'ally round the interior of its cavity. Having arrived near tlie portal Hssure, much reduced in size, it the Round ligament Quadrate lobe Hepatic ihict Gall-bladrlei Cystic iluct flmental tuberosity Gastric impression Posterior layer of lesser omentum Oisopliagus Duodenal impression Free edge of lesser omentum Common bile-duct Duodenum Portal vein Hepatic artery Pylorus ■ Right gastro-epiploic artery Superior pancreatico-duodenal artery l^anoreatic duct Fig. 718.—Structures between the Layers of the Lesser Omentum. The liver has been raised up, and the anterior layer of the onientuni removed (semi-diagranimatio). passes into cystic duct. As a rule the gall - bladder is covered liy the peri- toneum of the in- ferior surface of the liver, except on its upper aspect, which is united to the fossa of the gall- bladder hj areolar tissue. Sometimes, but rarely, this sur- face is covered also, and the gall-bladder is then suspended from the liver by a short peritoneal ligament. The fundus usually lies in contact with the anterior al)doininal wall, at or imme- diately beneath the point where the right Poupart line strikes the lower margin of the ribs (i.e. in the angle lietween the outer border of the right rectus muscle and the lower margin of the ribs). Above, the gall-bladder lies against the liver; and heloiv, it rests on the transverse colon in front, and behind, near its neck on the duodenum. In some bodies tlie fundus of tlie gall-bladder does not reacli tlie border of the liver or the abdominal wall. In others it may lie moved considerably to the right of the Poupart line— possibly as a result of distension of the stomach and colon—or as a result of tight lacing, it may lie moved to the left, and may then lie near the middle line and far below tlie ril)S (Fig. 678, p. 1006). Its total absence, as well as the presence of two distinct gall-bladders, and several otlier irre- gularities in form, have been recorded. Its size is usually about 3 inches (75 mm.) in lengtli, and 1 to Ij inch (25 to 31 mm.) in dia- meter. Its capacity varies Ijet-ween 1 and 1| fliud ounces. Structure of Gall-bladder.—The wall of the gall-bladder is composed of an outer coat of peritoneum, usually incomplete ; a middle coat of fibrous tissue with unstriped muscle iutermi.xed ; and au inner coat of mucous membrane, which is covered by columnar epithelium, and is raised into a number of small ridges, which confer on it a reticulated appearance. The mucous membrane is always deeply stained with bile when the gall- bladder is opened after death. The cystic artery which supplies it with blood arises fxcm the hepatic, or its riglit division, and divides into two branches, which run on the lateral surfaces of the organ. Tlic veins join the portal trunk, and the nerves come from the sympathetic on the liepiatic artery. The cystic duct (ductus cysticus), about half the diameter of the hepatic duct (3 mm.), but usually slightly longer (1^ to 1| inch, 31 to 37 mm.), begins at the neck of the gall-bladder, and rr.nning an irregular course liackwards and inwards, joins the hepatic duct at the mouth of the portal fissure, to form tlie common bile- duct. The spiral constriction found in the neck of the gall-bladder is continued into the beoinniny; of this duct. The common bile-duct (ductus choledochus) begins at the mouth of the portal fissitre, where it is formed by the union of the hepatic and cystic ducts. From this it passes downwards, in frcjut of the foramen of Winslow, lying between the