452 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. verse bundles of fibres termed the striae acusticae. They appear to emerge from the mesial groove and they are carried outwards over the upper part of the resti- form body. They somewhat resemble the superficial arcuate fibres on the lateral surface of the medulla, and their connexions will be discussed at a later stage. The strife acusticfe divide each lateral half of the ventricular floor into upper and lower portions, which very nearly correspond to the subdivisions of this area formed by the medidla and the pons. Except for this break on the surface, the medullary and pontine portions of the floor of the fourth ventricle are quite continuous with each other. On the lower medullary district of the ventricular floor a small triangular depression placed immediately below the stritB acusticaj catches the eye. This is termed the fovea inferior. It is shaped somewhat like an arrow-head. Tlie apex or point looks towards the striae, whilst the lateral angles of the base are prolonged downwards in the form of diverging grooves (Fig. 33:3, p. 447). Of these, the inner groove runs towards the opening of the central canal at the calamus scriptorius, whilst the outer groove runs towards the lateral boundary of the floor. In this manner the portion of the floor which lies below the striaj acusticte is mapped out into three triangular areas. The mesial subdivision is slightly elevated and is termed the trigonum hypoglossi, because, subjacent to this area, is the nucleus of origin of the hypoglossal or twelfth cranial nerve. The intermediate area between the two diverging grooves which proceed from the base of the fovea inferior is the trigonum vagi (ala cinerea), so called because the terminal nucleus of the vagus or tenth and the glosso-pharyngeal or ninth cranial nerves lies subjacent to it. The external area is the trigonum acustici. The base of this area is directed upwards and runs continuously into an eminence—the acustic area (area acustica)—over which the striae acusticae pass. Subjacent to this district of the floor of the ventricle lies the large terminal chief nucleus of the vestibular division of the auditory or eighth cranial nerve. On the part of the floor of the ventricle which lies above the striae acusticae, and which corresponds to the dorsal surface of the pons, there is also a slight depression termed the fovea superior. Between it and the median groove is a marked pro- minence called the eminentia teres. Inferiorly this elevation passes downwards and becomes continuous with the trigonum hypoglossi, whilst above it is cai-ried upwards towards the opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius. In both directions it becomes gradually less prominent, but still it forms a distinct elongated elevation, which stretches along the whole length of the median groove. As already stated, the area acustica extends upwards into the pontine part of the ventricular floor and forms an elevated region in the outermost part of its widest portion, below and to the outer side of the fovea superior. Proceeding upwards from the fovea superior to the opening of the Sylvian aqueduct there is a shallow depression termed the locus cseruleus, seeing that it usually presents a faint slate gray colour. When the ependyma is scraped away from the surface of this part of the floor, the colour is seen to be due to the substantia ferruginea,—a name applied to a linear group of strongly pigmented cells, which lies in the lateral part of the gray matter covering this portion of the ventricular floor. When transverse sections are made through the upper part of the pons, the substantia ferruginea appears on the cut surface as a small black spot. INTERNAL STEUCTUEE OF THE MEDULLA. The internal structure of the medulla differs in a marked degree from that of the spinal cord ; indeed, in its upper part it presents very little in common with the latter. The various strands of the cord either come to an end within the medulla or undergo changes in their relative position, whilst the gray matter is much modi- fied and new masses are added. Like the cord, however, the medulla consists of two nearly symmetrical right and left halves. When transverse sections are made through it at different levels each lateral half is seen to be partly marked ofl' from the other in the lower closed part of the medulla by the anterior and posterior median fissures, whilst in the upper open part of the medulla the subdivision is