788 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. Relations the wrist, the r and upon the back of the trapezium. It is Biceps of the second part.—As it curves round the outer side and the back of adial artery lies upon the external lateral ligament of the intercarpal joint crossed by the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the extensor brevis poUicis, and the extensor longus pollicis ; more super- ficially it is covered by fascia, in which are some filaments of the radial nerve and the commencement of the radial vein, and by skin. Branches of the second part. — (1) Dorsales Pollicis. — Two small arteries which run along the borders of the dorsal aspect of the thumb; they supply the skin, tendons, and joints, and anastomose with the palmar digital arteries. (2) Dorsalis Indicis. — A slender artery which runs downwards on the ulnar head of the first dorsal interosseous muscle and along the dorsal aspect of the radial border of the index-finger. (3) and (4) The metacarpal or first dorsal interosseous and posterior radial carpal arise by a common trunk which crosses beneath the extensor longus pollicis. - Brachial artery Anastomotic artery _Brachialis anticus .^Pronator teres Ulnar -recurrent artery Flexor profunclns digitornm Ulnar artery Anterior interosseous artery. Anterior -communicating artery (rt) The metacarjjal branch (a. metacarpea dorsalis) descends on the dorsal asi^ect of the second dorsal interosseous muscle, and divides op230site the heads of the metacarpal Ijones into two digital Ijranches which supply the adjacent sides of the index and middle' fingers. (6) The posterior carpal branch (ramus carpeus dorsalis) runs inwards on' the dorsal carpal ligaments, and beneath the extensor tendons, to anastomose with the posterior carj^al branch of the idnar artery, and to comj^lete the dorsal carpal arch which receives the terminations of the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. The dorsal carpal arch gives off the second and third dorsal interosseous arteries (aa. metacarpie dorsales), A'S'hich descend on the dorsal aspects of the third and fourth dorsal interosseous muscles as far as-the heads of the metacarpal bones, where each divides into two branches (aa. digitales dorsales), for the adjacent sides of the third and fourth and the fourth and fifth fingers respectively. Each dorsal interosseous artery is con- nected with the deep palmar arch by a superior perforating branch which passes through the upper part of the corresponding interosseous space, and with a digital branch from the superficial palmar arch by an inferior perforating branch which passes through the lower 2)ai't of the space. Relations of the third part.— Fig. 564.—Deep Dissection of the Front of the The third part of the radial artery passes Forearm and Hand, sliowing the radial and ulnar forwards between the two heads of the arteries and their branches and the deep palmar arch n . i ^ ■ , i . i J 1.. „„i,„„ first dorsal interosseous muscle to reach and its branches. i i i • ■ i i the palm, where it turns inwards beneath the upper part of the oblique adductor muscle of the thumb, and, after passing through the upper fibres of the transverse adductor, or between the adjacent borders of the oblique and transverse adductors, unites with the deep branch of the ulnar artery, completing the •deep palmar arch. Radialis indicis Deep branch of ulnar artery Deep palmar arch Palmar interosseous arteries - Digital artery