LYMPHATIC GLANDS AND VESSELS OF THE ABDOMEN. 873 The efferent vessels of the external iliac glands pass to the common iliac and to the lumbar glands. The obturator gland is frequently absent. When present it lies at the posterior end of the obturator canal, and is usually small. It receives afferent vessels from the deep parts of the upper and inner portion of the thigh, and its efferents join the internal iliac glands. The sacral glands (lymphogiandulae sacrales).—This term is applied to several small glands which lie in the concavity of the sacrum, behind the rectum. They receive afferent vessels from the rectum and from the pelvic wall, and their efferents end in the subaortic and lumbar glands. The sub-aortic glands present many variations both in number and in size. They lie in front of the lower lumbar vertebrae, beneath the Ijifurcation of the aorta. Their afferent vessels come from the pelvic walls and from the sacral glands, and their efferents accompany the efferents of the internal and common iliac glands, to terminate like them in the lumbar and pre-aortic glands. The internal iliac glands are numerous but small. They lie on the lateral wall of the pelvis, in front of the internal iliac artery and the ureter, and in the angle between the internal and the external iliac vessels. Their afferents are («) the lymphatics, which accompany the gluteal and sciatic vessels from the deep parts of the buttock and back of the thigh; (b) the lym- phatics from the deep parts of the upper and inner portion of the thigh and the efferents of the obturator gland; (c) visceral lymphatics from the lower two-thirds of the uterus, the upper two-thirds of the vagina, the bladder, the seminal vesicle and vas deferens, the prostate and the upper portion of the urethra, and from the root of the penis or clitoris. The efferents of the internal iliac glands terminate either in the common iliac glands, in the lumbar glands, or in the pre- aortic glands. The common iliac glands lie along the sides of the common iliac arteries; they vary both in number and size ; in some bodies there may be only two or three small glands, whilst in others there may be several large glands. Their afferent vessels are derived chiefly from the external and internal iliac glands, and their efferents terminate in the lumbar or the pre-aortic glands. Lumbar Glands.—There are two sets of lumbar glands, («) the lateral and (&) the median. (a) The lateral lumbar gkmds, which are of small size, lie close to the transA^erse processes of the lumbar vertebrae tinder cover of the psoas muscle; they receive the afferent vessels, which accompany the lumbar arteries, from "the deeper portions of the posterior part of the abdominal wall. Their efferent vessels unite with the efferent vessels of the median lumbar glands, and terminate with them, forming a common lumbar lymphatic tnink on each side. (6) The median lumbar gkmds lie along the sides of the aorta and the inferior vena cava. They are numerous and of large size, and they receive afferent vessels (1) from the lumbar portion of the vertebral column and the deeper portions of the posterior part of the abdominal wall in its immediate neighbour- hood ; (2) from the common iliac glands; (3) from the external iliac glands; (4) from the internal iliac glands; (5) from the lateral lumbar glands; (6) from the kidneys ; (7) from the suprarenal bodies ; (8) from the testicles or ovaries ; (9) from the upper part of the uterus; (10) from the subaortic glands; (11) from the crura of the diaphragm; (12) from the ascending and descending portions of the colon. Their efferent vessels unite with some of the efferent vessels of the lateral lumbar glands, and they terminate in two common lumbar lymphatic trunks, one on each side, which open into the receptaculum chyli. The pre-aortic glands lie in the extra-peritoneal fat in front of the aorta and the inferior vena cava; they receive afferent vessels from the mesenteric glands and from the sub-aortic glands. Their efferents unite with those of the coeliac glands to form a common intestinal lymphatic trunk which terminates in the receptaculum chyli. Deep Lymphatic Vessels of the Abdomen and Pelvis.—These require no special description. They have already been referred to in describing the deep