THE TEKMINAL LYMPH VESSELS. 861 (1) The skeleton or framework consists of a capsule and of primary, secondary, and tertiary trabeculse. The capsule is formed of white librous tissue interspersed with elastic fibres, and in some cases with unstriped muscular fibres. The 2'>rimary trabec alee sirring from the deep surface of the capsule and radiate towai'ds the hilus, where they anastomose together and become again continuous with the capsule; they divide the interior of the gland into lobes. Where they spring from the capsule they are flattened, but as they approach the centre of the gland they become rounded ; their structure is the same as that of the capsule, and from their surfaces the secondary trabeculfe are given off. The secondary trahectdce, springing from the surfaces of the primary trabeculse, cross the lynijjh sinuses and enter the lymph cords and follicles, where they terminate by dividing into tertiary trabeculse. As they cross the lympli sinuses they anastomose freely together, forming a fine mesh-work through which the lymph passes in its course from the afferent to the efferent vessels. The secondary trabecule consist of fine strands of fibrous tissue devoid of nuclei, and their surfaces are covered with endothelial cells. The tertiary trahecuhi are finer and more delicate than the secondary trabeculse, from the terminations of which they spring, but they have a similar structure. They anastomose together, forming a fine network in the lymph cords and follicles, and the spaces of the network are filled with lymjjh corpuscles. (2) The lympli sinuses lie beneath the capsule and around the jjrimary trabeculse which form their boundaries on one side, whilst on the other they are limited by the lymph cords and follicles. They are traversed by the secondary trabeculse, and their channels are thus converted into a kind of sponge-work through which the lymph stream flows. In the perijiheral or cortical parts (substantia corticalis) of the glands they form more or less cylindrical channels, but towards the central or medullary parts (substantia medullaris) and near the hilus they become moniliform. Afferent vessels (vasa aft'erentia) enter the sinuses whicli lie immediately beneath the cajisule at various points, whilst the eft'erent vessels (vasa efferentia) emerge close together at the hilus. (3) The lymph, follicles and cords are interposed between tlie lymph sinuses. They consist of dense masses of lymphoid cells embedded in a stroma formed by the tertiary trabecuhe. The follicles and cords are quite similar in structure, but the follicles are large masses which inter- vene between the sinuses in the cortex of the gland, and the cords are rounded and irregular strands which lie between the moniliform sinuses of the medullary portion. It is generally believed that the lymph corpuscles in the follicles and cords are white blood corjDuscles undergoing proliferation. If this belief is well founded, lymph glands must be looked upon as one of the sources from which white corpuscles are derived. The lymph glands are embedded in the eouuective tissues, some lying super- ficially in the subcutaneous tissues, but the majority more deeply and usually at the sides of the great blood-vessels. As a rule they are arranged in groups of from two to fifteen, but a few of those which lie in the subcutaneous tissues are solitary. They form centres to wliich afferent lymphatic vessels converge, and fr<jm which efferent vessels pass onwards to the larger lymph channels. The student should therefore acquaint himself with the various groups of glands, with their afferents and efferents, and with the exact position and relations of the large lymphatic trunks; he will then be in a position to understand the course which minute organisms or particles, which have gained access to the lympli spaces, may take as they are carried in the lymph stream, and he will realise that such structures may either be entangled in the glands through whicli the lymph passes, or, having escaped all obstructions, that they will finally enter the veins at the root of the neck. At the same time, if he bears in mind the existence of the numerous anastomoses between the lymphatic vessels, he will have no difficulty in appreciating that variations from any regular course may not infrequently occur, and his clinical experience at a later period will show that such variations are by no means uncommon. THE TEEMINAL LYMPH VESSELS. The terminal lymph vessels are the thoracic duct and the right lymphatic duct. Thoracic Duct.—The thoracic duct (ductus thoracicus) is the larger and the longer of the two terminal lymph vessels. It commences in the umbilical region of the abdomen as an elongated ovoid dilation—^the receptaculum chyli (cisterna chyli)—which measures 6 to 8 mm. to ^ in.) in its broadest diameter, and from 5 to 7-5 cm. (2 to 3 in.) in length. The receptaculum chyli lies between the aorta and the lower part of the vena azygos major, under cover of the right crus of the diaphragm, and opposite the first and second lumbar vertebra;. Passing