1021 THE JEJUNUM AND ILEUM. the terminnl .part of the duodenum, theu oltliquely across the aorta, the inferior vena cava, the ureter, and psoas muscle, to reach the right ihac region. The opposite liorder of the mesentery is frilled out to an enormous degree, so that, while the root measures but 6 or 7 inches, the free Ijorder is extended to some 20 feet, thus resembling' a fan, one l)order of which may be twenty or thirty times as long as the other. The length of the mesentery,' measured from its 'root to the "attached edg^ of the intestine directly opposite, usually measures at its longest part about 6 inches (8 or 9 inches, Treves and Lockwood). Between the tivo layers of the mesentery (Fig. 683) are contained (a) the intestinal branches of the superior mesenteric vessels, accompanied by the mesenteric nerves and lymphatics: (&) the mesenteric lymphatic glands, which vary from 40 I.iver Attachment of falcil'oriii ligainenf Hepatic flexure w Third i)art of - M&A duodenum uff" Apex of vermiform appendix Terminal part of ileum Circuit. Stomacli Spleen (anterior basal ••ingle) Splenic flexure Transverse mesocolon, witli stomach resting on it Terminal part of luodcHuni "Descendini,' colim ~ y ■J'^j Root of mescntery(cut) Pelvic (sifjmoid) inesocolou iii^Pelvic colon (sigmoid Hexure) Bladder Fig. 691.—The ABDOiMiNAL Viscera aI'TEH the Removal of the Jejunum and Ileum (from a photograpli of the same body as depicted in Fig. 670). The transverse colon is much more regular than usual. Both the liver aud caecnm e.xtend lower down than normal. The subdivisions of the abdominal cavity are indicated by dark lines. to 150 in number; (c) a consideral)le amount of fatty connective tissue, continuous with the extra-peritoneal areolar tissue ; and (rf) the intestine itself. The peritoneum from the right side of tlie mesentery passes out on the jjosterior alxlominal wall to clothe the ascending colon, and above, it is connected by a fold with tlie transverse meso- colon. That of the left side, similarly, jvisses across the parietes to the descending and iliac colons. The mesentery begins above, immediately beyond the ending of the duodenum—that is, in the angle of the duodeno-jejunal flexure—and it ends below in the angle betM'een the ileum and ascending colon. It is \vvy short at each end, but soon attains tlie average length. Its longest l)art goes to the portion of the small intestine situated Ijetween two points, one six feet, the other eleven feet from the duodenum (Treves). Whilst the root of the mesentery pursues at its attachment an almost straight line from one end to the otlier, if cut across a A'ery short distance from the posterior alidominal wall, it will here be found to form a wavy or tnidulating line. Further out still this condition liecomes more and more marked ; and linally, if tlie bowel be reniOA'ed by cutting tliroiigh tlie mesentery clo.'^e to its attach-