117U SUliFACE AKI) .SU1;G1("AL ANATOMY'. Thv facial nerve, after entering the acjueduct ol' Fallupius at the bottom of thi; internal auditory meatus, lies immediately above and behind the foramen ovale, between it and the prominence of the external semicircular canal; thence it descends almost vertically in the posterior wall of the tympanum | in. behind and internal to tlie lower half of the deepest part of the posterior wall of the external osseous canal, and emerges through the stylo-mastoid foramen (Fig. 515). In the infant, in consequence of the absence of the mastoid process, the exit of the facial nerve from the stylo-mastoid foramen is unprotected and exposed upon the lateral rather than upon the basal surface of the skull at a point immediately behind the posterior segment of the tympanic horse-shoe. It follows, therefore, tliat, in infancy, the incision to expose the antrum should not be curved too far downwards and forwards, otherwise the facial nerve may be divided. In the infant tlie position of the mastoid antrum is relatively higher than in the adult, Septum of frontal sinuses Crista Galli Left frontal sinus Fill. 797.—Verticvl Coronal Sectio.\ throU(!H the No.se and Frontal Sinuses. because in the former the upper wall of the osseous canal inclines towards the vertical plane instead of being horizontal. To open the mastoid antrum the surgeon makes a curved incision a little behind the attachment of the auricle, and chisels or drills away the bone immediately above and behind the postero-superior quadrant of the external osseous meatus. In this operation the middle fossa of the skull is avoided by keeping below the supra-mastoid crest, the lateral sinus by keeping close to the external auditory canal and by chiselling obliquely to the surface in opening the mastoid cells, the descending portion of the facial nerve is avoided by not encroaching upon the lower half of the deepest part of the posterior wall of the osseous canal. In extending the operation from the mastoid antrum through the aditus into the tympanic attic, the external seinlcircidar canal and the curve of the/ac/«/ nerve, which lie in relation to the inner wall of the aditus, are liable to injury, and must be protected either by a curved probe, or better by Stacke's protector, passed from the antrum through the aditus into the tympanic cavity. The frontal air sinuses are two cavities situated immediately above the root of the nose between the two tables of the frontal bone. Each sinus at its most dependent part communicates, by means of the naso-frontal duct, either directly with the middle meatus of the nose, or indirectly with that channel through its