G40 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. In the cavity of the cranium the nerve gives off a minute recurrent branch (n. meniugeus) to the dura mater of the middle fossa of the base of the skull. In the spheno-maxillary fossa the nerve gives off—(1) two sliort thick spheno- palatine nerves (nn. spheno-palatini), the short or sensory roots of the spheno- palatine (Meckel's) ganglion. (2) A posterior dental nerve, which may be double (nn. alveolares superiores), descends through the pterygo-maxillary fissure to the outer side of the upper jaw, and proceeds forwards along the alveolar arch, in company with the posterior dental artery. It supplies the gum and the upper molar teeth by branches which perforate the bone to reach the alveoli. The nerve forms a fine plexus joined by the middle dental nerve before finally reaching the teeth. (3) A small orbital branch (n. zygomaticus) enters the orbital cavity through the spheno-maxil- lary fissure, and proceeding along the outer wall, it communicates with the lachrymal nerve, and passes through the orbital canal in the malar bone, where it divides into malar and temporal branches. The malar branch (n. zygomatico-faci- alis) appears on the face, after travers- ing the malar bone, and supplies the skin over that bone. It com- municates with the malar branches of the facifil nerve. The temporal branch (u. zygo- matico-temporalis) the spheuo-maxillary fossa ; S.P, Spheno-palatiuu uerves ; S.N, Superior iia.sal perforates the branch ; Orb, Orbital nerve ; T, Temporal, auil M, Malar branches ; I.O, zvo'Omatic SUrface Infra-orbital nerve, appearing on the face ; P, Palpebral ; N, Nasal, and "p^ii i i L, Labial branches ; A.D, Anterior dental branch ; M.D, Middle dental 01 tlie malar bonC, branch; N.P, Naso-palatine nerve ; P.D, Posterior dental branch ; I.N, Inferior and is distributed, nasal branch ; L.P.P, Large po.sterior palatine nerve ; S.P.P, Small posterior jj^f^gj;- piercino' the palatine nerve ; Acc, Accessory posterior palatine nerve ; Vid, Vidian i f j. nerve ; Pt.Pal, Pterygo-palatine branch. temporal laSCia, tO the skin over the fore part of the temple. It communicates with the temporal branches of the facial nerve. It may be very minute, and not pass further than the temporal fascia, between the two layers of which it may form a communication with the facial nerve. (4) The infra-orbital nerve (n. infra-orbitalis) is the terminal branch of the superior maxillary nerve, which enters the orbit through the spheno- maxillary fissure and traverses the infra-orbital canal to reach the face. In the hifra-orhital canal the superior maxillary, now called the infra-orbital nerve, supplies one and sometimes two branches to the teeth—the middle and anterior dental nerves (rr. alveolares superiores medius and anterior). The former may be only a secondary branch of the latter nerve, or they may arise independently from the infra-orbital nerve. However formed, the nerves descend in bony canals in the wall of the antrum of Highmore (to the lining of which branches are given), and reach the alveolar arch, where they form minute plexuses and supiily the teeth (joining posteriorly with the branches of the posterior Fig. 461.- -sc'heme of the cohlise and distribution of the superior Maxillary Nerve. Rec, Recurrent liranch in the middle fossa of the skull ; M.G, Meckel's ganglion in