UKOGENITAI. SYSTEM. 1136 Douglas. Lower down, the posterior wall lies close against the rectum, from which it is separated by a layer of the pelvic fascia. As, however, the orifice of the vagina is approached, the rectum and vagina become separated by a considerable interval, which is occupied by a mass of fibrous and fatty tissue, often called the " perineum " or " perineal body." At the sides the vagina is supported by the levatores ani muscles. The terminal part of the ureter lies not far from the side wall of the upper part of the vagina, as it passes from above and behind downwards, inwards, and a little forwards to reach the bladder. Near its termination the vagina pierces the triangular ligament, and is related laterally to the bulbus vestibuli, the gland of Bartholin, and the sphincter vaginjs muscle. Structure of the Vagina.—The vaginal wall has a distinct muscular coat (tunica muscularis), composed of unstiuped muscle fibres, most of which are longitudinally dis- posed. Towards the lower end of the passage circularly-disposed striped muscle fibres are found in the deeper part of the muscular coat. The thick mucous membrane (tunica mucosa), which has a stratified scaly epithelium, is corrugated, and j^resents a number of transverse ridges or elevations. called rugae vaginales. In addition to these transverse rugae, a slightly marked longitudinal ridge, or column, is to be seen on the anterior and on the posterior wall of the vagina. These receive the name columnae rugarum, and, like the transverse rugae, are best seen in young subjects, and in the lower part of the vagina. The urethral canal lies in close relationship to the anterior column of the vagina in its lower part, and hence this portion of the anterior column is sometimes called the carina urethralis (Figs. 746, B and 776). Within the mucous coat are to be found small collections, or nodules, of lymphoid tissue. , The vaginal wall is surrounded by a layer of loose vascular connective tissue contain- ing numerous large communicating veins. Variation.'—In I'are cases the vagina lias been found divided by an incomplete septiun into two passages. Such abnormality is due to an incomplete fusion of the lower portions of the Miillerian ducts from which tlie vagina is developed in the embryo. Vessels and Nerves of the Vagina.—The blood supply of the vagina is for the most part derived from branches of the vesico-vaginal artery, the vaginal branch of the uterine artery, the vaginal liranclies of the middle hsemorrhoidal artery, and from the branches of the internal pudic. The veins form a ple.xus surrounding the vaginal wall, and drain their blood into the tributaries of the internal iliac. The lymphatics from the upper part of the vagina join the internal iliac group of glands, while those from the lower part end in the su2)erficial inguinal glands. The nerves of the vagina are derived from the plexus utero-vaginalis, and from the plexus vesicalis. Other fibres are derived directly from the third and fourth sacral nerves. THE FEMALE EXTEENAL GENITAL ORGANS. The term vulva, or pudendum (pudendum muliebere), is often applied collec- tively to the female external genital organs, i.e. to the libia majora and the struc- tures which lie between them. Labia Majora.—The labia majora represent the scrotum in the male, and form the largest part of the female external genital organs. They form the lateral boundaries of the urogenital cleft (rima pudendi), into which the urethra and vagina open. Each labium is a prominent rounded fold of skin, narrow behind where it approaches the anus, but increasing in size as it passes forwards and up- wards to end in a median elevation, the mons pubis or Veneris. The mons Veneris, also called the anterior commissure (cominissura labiorum anterior), lies over the symphysis pubis, and, like the labia majora, it is composed chiefly of fatty and areolar tissue, and is covered by hair. The outer convex surface of each labium majus is covered by skin resembling that of the scrotum in the male, but the inner flatter surface is smooth, and presents a more delicate integumentary covering. In some cases the posterior narrow ends of the labia majora are con- nected across the middle line in front of the anus by a slight transverse fold—the posterior commissure (commissura lal)iorum posterior). Usually, especially in young subjects, the labia majora are the only visible parts of the external genital organs, since they are in contact with one another, and completely enclose the structures within the urogenital cleft.