THE ARTICULATIONS OR JOINTS. 300 A distinct synovial membrane lines all parts of the capsule of the joint. Articulatio Calcaneo-cuboidea.—This is situated between the anterior concavo- convex surface of the os calcis and the posterior similar surface of the cuboid. The ligaments which invest this joint constitute a calcaneo-cuboid capsule, whose parts are arranged in relation to the four non-articular sides of the cuboid bone, and are especially strong upon the plantar aspect, in relation to their great importance in resisting strains. The internal calcaneo-cuboid ligament (Fig. 229) occupies part of the interval between the astragalus and os calcis— sinus tarsi. It is sometimes called the interosseous calcaneo-cuboid ligament, and, in conjunction with the superior or external calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, it forms a V-shaped structure, of which the single end is attached to the os calcis, and the double ends separate to reach contiguous areas on the scaphoid and cuboid respectively. The dorsal calcaneo-cuboid ligament (Fig. 229) is a broad portion of the capsule extending between the dorsal surfaces of the two bones. The external calcaneo-cuboid ligament (Fig. 229) is another but narrower part of the capsule which extends from the outer aspect of the os calcis to the outer side of the cuboid, immediately behind the facet on the tuberosity. The inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligaments are two in number—a superficial and a deep. The superficial series of fibres, the long plantar ligament (Fig. 230), is Fig. 230.-LIGAMENTS on Plantar Aspect of Foot, attached to the under surface of the OS calcis m front or its tuberosities. It forms a long powerful structure which runs forwards to be fixed to the under surface of the cuboid ridge, but many of its fibres pass superficial to the tendon of the peroneus longus, and extend to the bases of the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones. The deep series of fibres, the short plantar ligament (Fig. 230),is distinctly separated from the former by a layer of areolar tissue. It forms a broad but short Ijand of great strength, which is attached to the under surface of the front end of the os calcis, and extends to the under surface of the cuboid just behind the ridge. Both of these ligaments are of great importance in maintaining the longitudinal arch of the foot, and in this respect are only second to the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments. A synovial membrane lines the capsule. Transverse Tarsal Articulation.—This is a term sometimes applied to the astragalo-scaphoid and calcaneo-cuboid joints. These articulatiousdonotcommunicate with each other; and although there is an occasional direct articulation between the ' scaphoid and cuboid, it does not constitute an(!xtensionof the transverse tarsal joint, but is a prolongation from the series of scapho-cuneiform and cuneo-cuboid articulations. Nevertheless there is always a set of ligaments which bind the scaphoid and cuboid bones together, and these may be regarded as accessory to the various transverse tarsal joints. The dorsal scapho-cuboid ligament (Fig. 229) consists of short oblique fibres which attach the contiguous dorsal surfaces of the culjoid and scaphoid bones. The plantar scapho-cuboid ligament (Fig. 230) is transverse in direction, and • extends between adjacent plantar areas of the cuboid and scaphoid bones. The interosseous scapho-cuboid ligament intervenes between contiguous surfaces