798 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. (a) Inferior suprarenal (a. yui)rar«ialis iufei ioi), pas.sc-s upwards to tlu- lower part of the suprare'iial body. {h) Ureteral.—Small brandies to the upper part of the ureter, which anastomose with branches of the spermatic or oA'arian arteries. (c) Peri-renal.—Small branches to the fatty capsule of the kidney, which anastomose with the lumbar arteries. {d) Glandular offsets, either from the main trunk or from some of its branches, pass to the renal and lumbar glands. .'>«. Spermatic Arteries (aa. spenuaticie internee).—The .spermatic arteries in the male, and tlie corresponding ovarian arteries (aa. ovaricie) in the female, are two long slender vessels, one on the right side and one on the left, which arise from the front of the al)dominal aorta, a short distance below the origins of the renal arteries. Each spermatic artery runs downwards and outwards to the internal aljdominal ring; it then traverses the inguinal canal, and consequently takes a downward and inward course. On emerging from the canal, through the external al)dominal ring, it enters the scrotum, in which it descends, almost vertically, but in a tortuous manner, to end immediately above the testicle by dividing into testicular and epididymal branches. Relations.—In tlie abdominal cavity the arteries lie behind the peritoneum, to wliicli tliey are closely attached, and in front of the psoas muscles. The right artery is also in front of the inferior vena cava. Each artery descends in front of the ureter, the genito-crural nerve, and the lower end of the external iliac artery of its own side, and is acconii)auie(l by two spermatic veins which unite above into a single trunk. The anterior relations differ on the two sides. The right artery lies behind, and is crossed, by the ileo- eolic, the right colic, and the terminal branches of the sujaerior mesenteric artery, and by the third part of the duodenum, the termination of the ileum, and the vermiform appendi.x. The left artery is crossed in front by the left colic and sigmoid branches of the inferior mesenteric artery and by the iliac cf)lon. At tlic internal abdominal ring the spermatic artery comes into relation, at its inner side, with the vas deferens. The two structures run together round tiic outer and anterior aspects of the deep epigastric artery to the inguinal canal. In the inguinal canal the spermatic artery, along with the other constituents of the spermatic cord, is enclosed in tlie infundibular and cremasteric fasciae, the intercolumnar fascia being added at the external abdominal ring. In this part of its course the artery lies in front of the vas deferens, and behind the anterior part of the pampiniform plexus and the spermatic veins which arise from it. Branches.—(«) Ureteral branches, small in size, are distril)uted to the middle part of the ureter, anastomosing above with branches from the renal and below with branches from the vesical arteries.' (6) Cremasteric branches, given off in the inguinal canal and u])per jjart of the scrotum, supply tlie creniaster muscle, and anastomose with the cremasteric branch of the deep epigastric. ((■) Terminal Branches.—(i.) The tj-u/ic/t runsdovvnwards to theepididyinis, w-hich it supplies. It also gi\'es twigs to the vas al>errans, the coni ^'asculosi, and the tunica vaginalis, and anastomoses with the artery of the vas deferens, (ii.) The tedicular branch descends on the upper and back f)art of the testicle, and breaks up into numerous peripheral and central branches. The peripheral branches ])ass through the tunica albuginea and ramify on its inner surface ; they anastomose with one another and with the central branches. The central branches pass through the mediastinum testis and along the surfaces of the septa. 'ob. The ovarian arteries (aa. ovaricje. Fig. 5GG) in the female closely corre- spond to the spermatic arteries in the male. They are, however, much shorter, and, instead of passing through the al)dominal wall, descend into the pelvis, where they run between the layers of the 1)road ligament to terminate between the ovaries and the uterus l)y anastomosing with the uterine arteries. Relations.—In the upper part of their course the relations of the ovarian arteries are like those of the spermatic arteries, but about the level of the anterior superior spine of the ilium each ovarian arteiy turns inwards, and, crossing the upper part of the external iliac vessels (artery and vein), descends in the anterior border of the fossa ovarii, on the lateral wall of the pelvis, to the broad ligament, where it is placed below the Fallopian tube. Branches.—(«) Ureteral, to the middle part of the ureter. (b) Tubal, to the Fallopian tube, which anastomose with branches of the uterine. {(■) Ligamentous, to the round ligament, as far as the inguinal canal.