403 THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. crest in front of the rectus muscle. It is directed obliquely upwards, to be inserted for a variable distance into the linea alba. The muscle is often absent. The rectus abdominis muscle is broad and strap-like, and arises, by an inner and an outer head, from the symphysis and crest of the pubis. Expanding as it passes upwards, the muscle is inserted into the front of the ensiform cartilage, and into the fifth, sixth, and seventh costal cartilages. On its anterior surface are three or more transverse tendinous intersections (linese transversse), adherent to the sheath of the muscle ; the lowest opposite the umbilicus, and the highest about the level of the costal arch. Enclosed in its sheath, and covered anteriorly by the pyramidalis muscle, the rectus conceals the superior and deep epigastric arteries, the terminal branches of the lower thoracic nerves (which pierce the muscle to reach the anterior abdominal wall), the fold of Douglas, and the fascia transversaUs. The inner border of the muscle lies alongside the Hnea alba; its outer border is convex, and forms tlie linea semilunaris. The sheath of the rectus muscle is derived from the aponeuroses of the lateral muscles of-the abdominal wall, which, after enclosing the muscle, give rise to the linea alba in the middle hne. At the linea semilunaris, at the outer border of the rectus muscle, the apo- neurosis of the obliquus internus splits into anterior and posterior layers. The anterior layer, joined by the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus, passes in front of the rectus, and constitutes the anterior lamina of the sheath. The posterior layer, joined by the apo- neurosis of the transversalis muscle, passes behind the rectus, and constitutes the posterior lamina of its sheath. This arrangement obtains in the upper three - fourths of the abdominal wall. Below the level of the iliac crest the sheath of the muscle is deficient posteriorly, and a crescentic border, the fold of Douglas, marks the lower limit of the posterior lamina. In con- sequence, the rectus in the lower fourth of the abdominal wall rests upon the fascia transversalis directly. Close ex- amination, however, usually reveals a thin layer behind the muscle in contin- uity with the fold of Douglas, and merg- ing below with the fascia transversalis. In this region the rectus is covered anteriorly by the conjoint tendon, and by the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus, which is gradually becoming separate from the subjacent aponeurosis. The upper part of the rectus, lying on the chest- wall, is only covered anteriorly by a single layer of aponeurosis derived from the obliquus externus, which in this situation is giving origin to the pectoralis major muscle. Inguinal Canal.—These muscles of the abdominal wall form the boundaries of the inguinal canal, which transmits the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female through the lower part of the abdominal wall. The canal begins at the internal abdominal ring, placed half an inch above Poupart's ligament, and midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis. It ends at the external abdominal ring, placed above the spine and crest A Fig. 298.—The Sheath of the Kectus Abdominis Muscle. (I.), lu the thoracic wall ; (II.), In the upper three- quarters of the abdominal wall ; (III.), In the Jower fourth of the abdominal wall. A, Rectus muscle ; B, Obliquus externus ; C, Dia- phragm ; D, Obliquus inteknus ; E, Transver- salis abdominis, a, Anterior layer of rectu.s sheath ; b, Fifth costal cartilage ; c. Sixth costal cartilage ; d, Xiphoid cartilage ; e, Posterior layer of rectus sheath ; /, Transversalis fascia ; g, Peritoneum ; Ji, Linea alba. 1, Deep epigastric artery.