THE JOINTS OF THE THOKAX. 261 relation of the condyle to the articular eminence occurs during the exaggerated depression of the mandible which results from yawning, in which position the articulation is liable to be dislocated. When the two joints perform the same movement alternately, a certain amount of lateral motion results, from the fact that the long axis of each joint presents a slight obliquity to the transverse axis of the skull, and consequently a grinding or oblique movement in the horizontal plane is produced. Excessive depression, with the risk of dislocation, is resisted by the fibres of the external lateral ligament which becomes tense. In all movements of the mandible the meniscus conforms closely to the position of the con- dyle, and they move forwards and backwards together, but at the same time the meniscus does not restrict the movements of the condyle. Thus while the meniscus, along with the condyle, is gliding upon the temporal aspect of the joint, the condyle itself revolves upon the inferior surface of the meniscus. Ceanial Ligaments not directly associated with Articulations. The stylo-mandibular ligament (lig. stylo-mandibulare, Figs. 204 and 206) is a specialised portion of the deep cervical fascia which extends from the anterior aspect of the tip of the styloid process of the temporal bone to the posterior border of the angle of the mandible, between the insertions of the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. The pterygo-spinous ligament (lig. pterygo-spinosum) is a membrane extending from the upper part of the posterior free margin of the external pterygoid plate, backwards and slightly outwards, to the spinous process of the sphenoid. An interval is left between its upper border and the floor of the skull for the outward passage of those branches of the inferior maxillary nerve which supply the external pterygoid, temporal, and masseter muscles. This ligament has a tendency to ossify either wholly or partially. The stylo-hyoid ligament (lig. stylo-hyoideum), may be regarded as the down- ward continuation of the styloid process of the temporal bone. Inferiorly it is attached to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone. It is not infrequently ossified, in which case it constitutes the epihyal bone found in many animals. THE JOINTS OF THE THOEAX. Oosto-vertebral articulations (articulationes costo-vertebrales). The typical rib articulates with the vertebral column both by its head and by its tubercle. Thus, two sets of articulations, with their associated ligaments, exist between the ribs and the vertebrte, but each set is constructed upon a common plan, with the exception of certain joints situated at the upper and lower ends of the series, where the ribs themselves deviate from the typical form. Costo-Central Joints. The articulations of the heads of the ribs with the centra or bodies of the vertebriB (articulationes capitulorum. Fig. 199) are all diarthroses, which, from their somewhat hinge-like action, may be classed as ginglymoid. The head of every typical rib is wedge-shaped, and presents two articular facets, an upper and a lower, separated from each other by an antero-posterior ridge which abuts against an intervertebral disc, while the articular facets articu- late with similar surfaces on the contiguoi;s margins of the two vertebrse adjoining the disc. These surfaces form a wedge-shaped depression or cup, the bottom of which is more elastic than the sides, and thus an arrangement is provided which tends to reduce the shock of blows upon the walls of the chest. Each of these articulations is provided with a capsular ligament which surrounds and encloses the joint, and is attached to contiguous non-articular margins on the head of the rib and the two vertebral bodies. On its anterior or ventral aspect the capsule presents three radiating fasciculi which collectively form the stellate or anterior costo-vertebral ligament (lig. capituli costai radiatum, Fig. 199). These fasciculi radiate from a centre on the front of the head of the rib, so that the middle fasciculus becomes attached to the intervertebral disc, while