THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 378 the orbicularis oris muscle. The middle fibres of the muscle decussate at the angle of the mouth, so as to pass, the lower set to the upper lip, the upper set to the lower lip. The buccinator is covered on its deep surface by the mucous membrane of the mouth. Superficially it is concealed by the muscles above mentioned, which con- verge to the angle of the mouth; it is separated from the masseter by the suctorial pad of fat; it is pierced by the duct of the parotid gland, and by branches of the buccal nerve. Nerve Supply. The fixcial and scalj^ imiscles are all Innervated by the facial nerve. The postei-ior auricular hranch supplies the retrahens aurem and occipitalis ; the branches forming the pes anserinus su2:)ply tlie frontalis, attollens, and attrahens aureni, the several muscles associated with the apertures of the eye, nose, and mouth (including the buccinator), and the jjlatysma myoides. Actions. The almost infinite variety of facial expression is produced partly by the action of these muscles, partly by their inactivity, or by the action of antagonising muscles (antithesis). On the one hand joy is, for example, betrayed by the action of one set of muscles, while grief is accom- panied by the contraction of another (oj^posing) set. Determination or eagerness is accompanied by a fixed expression due to a combination of nuiscles acting together; despair, on the other hand, is expressed by a relaxation of muscular action. For a philosophical account of the action of the facial muscles, the student should consult Darwin's Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals, and Duchenne's Mechanisme de la Fhysiologie humaine. The platysma myoides retracts and depresses the angle of the mouth, and depresses the lower jaw. The occipito-frontalis, by its anterior belly, raises the eyebrows; l)oth bellies acting together tighten the skin of the seal]); acting along witli the orbicularis palpebrarum, it shifts the scalp backwards and forwards. The corrugator supercilii draws inwards the eyebrow and vertically wrinkles the forehead. "Tlie pyramidalis nasi draws downwards the skin Ijetween the eyebrows, as in frowning. The up25er eyi'lid is I'aised liy tlie levator palpebrse superioris. The closure of the lids is effected by the orbicularis palpebrarum, whose fibres also assist in the lowering of the eyebrows, in the pro- tection of the eyeball, and, by i^ressure on tlie lachrymal gland, in the secretion of tears. The tensor tarsi, acting along with the orbicularis palpebrarum, compresses the lachrymal sac and aids in the evacuation of its contents. The muscles of the ear and nose have quite rudimentary actions expressed by their names. Of the muscles of the nioutli, the orbicularis oris has a com- j)lex action, depending on the degree of contraction of its component i:>arts. It causes comj^ression and closure of the lijis in various ways, tightening the lips over the teeth, contracting them as in osculation, or causing jjouting or protrusion of one or the other. The accessory muscles of the lips draw them upwards (zygomatici, levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris alteque nasi, levator labii superioris), outwards (zygomaticus major, risorius, jjlatysma, depressor anguli oris, buccinator), and downwards (dejiressor anguli oris, depressor labii inferioris, iilatysma). The levator menti elevates the skin of the chin and protrudes the lower lip. The buccinator retracts the angles of tlie mouth, flattens the cheeks, and brings them in contact with the teeth. The Fascia and Muscles of the Orbit. Tlie eyeball with its muscles, vessels and nerves, is lodged in a mass of soft and the orbit. Surrounding the posterior part of the eyeball is the capsule of Tenon, which constitutes a large lymph space or synovial bursa in relation to the eyeball. An- teriorly the capsule is in con- tact with the conjunctiva, which intervenes between the latter and the eyeball; pos- teriorly it is pierced by and prolonged along the optic nerve. It is a smooth mem- brane connected to the globe of the eye by loose areolar tissue. It is pierced by the tendons of the ocular muscles, along which it sends prolongations continuous with the muscular sheaths. yielding fat which entirely fills up the cavity of Levator PALrEBRyi-; superioris Fig. 276.—Transverse Vehtical Section through the Orbit BEHIND the Eye-ball to show the Arrangement of Muscles.