1001 THE STOMACH. or fundus directed backwards towards the diaphragm, its long axis lying almost in a horizontal plane, and its pyloric portion running to the right to join the duodenum. In this state the whole organ is narrow and attenuated, particularly the pyloric portion, which is contracted, and resembles a piece of thick-walled small intestine. When distended, the organ assumes the form of an irregular pear, and both the cardiac and pyloric portions become full and rounded (Fig. 674). It still lies within the hypochondriac and epigastric regions; but in extreme distension, or in exceptional cases, it may pass down below the subcostal plane and reach into the umbilical and left lumbar regions. As a result of the general increase in length which takes place during distension, the pylorus is moved a variable distance to Liver Attachment of falciform ligament Hepatic flexure Stomach Spleen (anterior basal uigle) ■Splenic flexure Transverse mesocolon with stomach resting on it Terminal part of duodenum Descending colon _ Jl Apex of vermifonn appendix Terminal part of ileum Cascum Pelvic (sigmoid) mesocolon -LLvlvic colon (sigmoid rtexure) Bladder Fig. 675.—The Abdominal Viscera afteii the Removal of the Jejunum and Ileum (from a i)hotograph of the same body as Fig. 670). The transverse colon is much more regular than usual. Both the liver and ceeoum extend lower down than normal. The subdivisions of the abdominal cavity are indicated by dark lines. the right beneath the quadrate lobe of the liver, and at the same time the long axis of the whole organ becomes much more oblique, running forwards, downwards, and to the right. Finally there is developed a special dilatation of the pyloric portion, known as the antrum pylori, which in extreme distension is carried so far to the right that it may even reach into the hypochondrium. In brief, it may be said that the stomach when empty is contracted, not collapsed; that it assumes a narrow, attenuated shape, its cavity being practically obliterated, and its pyloric portion contracted to the size of small intestine ; and in addition, that its long axis lies in an almost horizontal plane. With distension there comes a general enlargement of the various diameters, an elongation of the whole organ, with a consequent passage of its pyloric portion to the right beneath the liver, the development of the antrum pylori, and an inclination of its axis from behind downwards and forwards, without any rotation.