487 DEVELOPMENT OF THE MEDULLA. cord we have recognised two thick lateral walls connected in front and behind by narrow mid-ventral and mid-dorsal laminte. The same parts are seen in the developing medulla. Owing, however, to the expansion of the cavity in this portion of the tube the mid-dorsal lamina is stretched out into an extensive and thin epithelial membrane, which forms the dorsal wall or roof of the ventricle at this level. The tliick lateral walls have also fallen away from each other, and are joined in front by the narrow mid-ventral lamina. On section, therefore, the medullary part of the neural tube presents a triangular figure—the base, which is directed backwards, being formed by the thin epithelial expansion derived from the mid-dorsal lamina, the apex by the narrow mid-ventral lamina, and the sides by the thick lateral walls of the tube. Further, each lateral wall consists of an alar or dorsal and a basal or ventral lamina. This subdivision is more clearly indicated than in the cord, and on the inner surface of the lateral wall a strongly-marked longitudinal furrow marks the line of junction of the two laminae. The histological development of these several parts of the wall of the medul- lary portion of the neural tube proceeds in a manner very similar to that already detailed in the case of the cord. No neuroblasts are formed in the mid-ventral and mid-dorsal laminae; the entire neuroblastic formation is confined to the basal and alar laminfe. Within the basal lamina, likewise, ai"e col- lected the neuroblasts which form the nuclei of origin of the efferent nerves ; whilst within the alar lamina are developed the neuroblasts which constitute the nuclei of termination for the fibres of the afferent nerves. As development proceeds, the two laminse of the lateral wall fall outwards to a still greater extent, so that they come to lie very nearly in the same horizontal plane. In this manner their originally mesial or ventricular surfaces come to form the floor of the fourth ventricle. Even in the adult the groove, which separates the basal and alar laminae so clearly from each other in the early con- dition, is more or less distinctly perceptible on the ventricular floor. It is represented by the fovea inferior and by the fovea superior. Between these depressions and the mesial groove on the floor of the fully- developed fourth ventricle there is an elon- gated elevation, which, in its lower part, forms the trigonum hypoglossi, above this the emenentia teres, whilst higher up it is continued" towards the commencement of the Sylvian aqueduct. This clearly-marked and bulging mesial strip of the ventricular floor corresponds to the basal lamina, whilst the part of the floor which lies to the outer side of it and the two foveac is derived from the alar lamina. The latter, therefore, includes the trigonum vagi, the area acustica, and the locus coeruleus. The further development of the med ulla takes place on the ventral aspect of the two laminae by the deposition of new parts on those which are already formed. An oval bimdle of longitudinal fibres makes its appearance on the outer surface of the alar lamina, at the point where this joins the basal lamina. This is the early fasciculus solitarius. It is composed of afl'erent fibres from the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus nerves. These, on reaching the sui'face of the medulla, turn downwards upon it. At first the FUSED RHOMBIC LIP Fig. HYPOGLOSSAL 361.—Three Stages in the Development ok THE Medulla Oblongata (from His—.slightly modified).