THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 802 the right ihac fossa, and crossing in this part of its course obliquely iu front of the aorta, the lower part of the inferior vena cava, the right ureter, and the right psoas muscle. At its origin it lies behind the body of the pancreas and the splenic vein; where it passes in front of the duodenum it is crossed anteriorly by the transverse colon, and in the lower part of its extent it is concealed l)y coils of small intestine. Branches.—It gives oft" numerous branches which supply the duodenum and the pancreas iu part, the whole of the small intestine below the duodenum, and the large intestine nearly as far as the splenic flexure. The branches are as follows :— (a) Rami intestini tenuis (aa. intestinales), or branches to the small intestine, varying from ten to sixteen in number; they spring from the convexity of the superior mesenteric artery-, and pass obliquely forwards and downwards between the layers of the mesentery, each dividing into two branches which anastomose with adjacent branches to form a series of ai'cades from which secondary branches are given off". This process of division and union is repeated three or four times; thus four or five tiers of arches are formed, from the most distal of which terminal branches are given off to the walls of the jejunum and ileum. Branches from the successive arcades are also given off to the mesenteric glands. The terminal branches anastomose together in the walls of the gut, forming a vascular network which communicates above with the inferior pancreatico- duodenal artery and below with the terminal branch of the superior mesenteric trunk. The vascular loops and branches are accompanied by corresponding veins, Ij'mphatics, and nerves. (6) The inferior pancreatico-duodenal artery (a. pancreatico-duodenalis inferior). It arises either from the trunk of the superior mesenteric, at the upper border of the third part of the duodenum, or from the first of the rami intestini. It runs to the right, between the head of the pancreas and the third part of the duodenum, and terminates by dividing into two branches, anterior and posterior, which ascend, the former in front and the latter behind the head of the pancreas; they supply tlie head of the pancreas, the third jmrt of the duodenum, and they anastomose with tlie similar branches of the superior pancreatico- duodenal artery. (c) The middle colic artery (a. colica media) is a large branch which springs from the front of the superior mesenteric as it enters the root of the mesentery. It runs down- wards and forwards iu the transverse mesocolon, and terminates by dividing into two branches, right and left, which anastomose respectively' with the right and left colic arteries, forming arcades from which secondary and tertiary loops are derived, the terminal branches being distributed to the walls of the transverse colon. (d) The right colic artery (a. colica dextra) springs from the right or concave side of the superior mesenteric, either alone or in the form of a common trunk which divides into right and ileo-colic branches. It runs to the right, behind the peritoneum on the posterior wall of the abdomen, and in front of the right psoas, the ureter, and the spermatic or ovarian vessels, tov.ards the ascending colon, near which it divides into an ascending and a descending branch. The former passes upwards, and anastomoses in the transverse mesocolon with the middle colic artery. The latter descends to anastomose with the upper branch of the ileo-colic, and from the loops thus formed branches are dis- tributed to the walls of the ascending colon and the beginning of the transverse colon. (c) The ileo colic artery (a. ileo-colica) arises by a common trunk with the right colic, or separately from the right side of the superior mesenteric, and jmsses downwards and outwards, behind the peritoneum, towards the lower part of the ascending colon, where it terminates by dividing into an ascending branch which anastomoses with the lower branch of the right colic, and a descending branch which communicates with the ileo-ctecal terminal branches of the superior mesenteric trunk. (/) Terminal.—The lower end of the superior mesenteric artery divides into five branches—(i.) ileal, (ii.) appendicular, (iii.) anterior ileo-caecal, (iv.) posterior ileo-csecal, and (v.) colic. The ileal branch (a. ilea) turns upwards and to the k'ft iu the lowest part of the niesenterj', and anastomoses with the rami intestini. The appendicular branch (a. appendicularis) j^asses behind the terminal portion of the ileum, and through the nieso-appendix to the vermiform pro- cess, iipon which it ends. The anterior ileo-csecal crosses the front of the ileo-caical junction in a fold of peritoneum ; the posterior ileo-csecal crosses the ileo-ciecal junction posteriorly, and the colic runs upwards to the ascending colon. The ileo-csecal hranches supply the walls of the caecum, and, like the colic branch, anastomose with branches of the ileo-colic artery. 3. The inferior mesenteric artery (a. mesenterica inferior, Fig. 566) arises