15 FEETILISATION OF THE OVUM. appears to be the backward prolongation of the axial filament; it is occasionally cleft into several fibrils. The spiral and axial filaments consist of numerous darkly-staining fibrils. The former is coiled round the body and tail. The latter is continuous posteriorly with the end-piece, and it is continued forwards through the tail, body, and neck. In some animals it is said to end anteriorly in a globuloid body at the base of the head, but in the human spermatozoon it can be traced through the head to the " spear " (Von Bardeleben). The spear projects obliquely forwards from the apex of the head. It is a unibarbed process, about twice as long as the head, and may be bent or curved upon itself. It contains an elongated body at its base, and it appears to be con- tinuous posteriorly with the axial filament. The spiral membrane is an extremely fine membrane which is attached to the body and tail. Its free margin is strengthened by a marginal filament. Spermatozoa move freely in fluid media, and each rotates upon its axis by means of the spiral membrane as it is propelled forwards by the lashing and contractile movements of the tail. The morphological value of the various parts of the spermatozoon is not yet definitely determined, but it is generally considered that the head represents a cell nucleus. The axial and spiral filaments are believed to consist of chromatin, and therefore they also are probably nuclear constituents. The protoplasmic remnant probably consists of cytoplasm, and the head-cap is apparently a remnant of the attraction sphere of the spermatid from which the spermatozoon was developed. Many observers have recognised the centrosome as a small structure in the body of the spermatozoon—possibly the globuloid body—but Nissing's more recent observations upon mammalian spermatozoa have convinced him that the centrosome takes part in the formation of the spike; it is possibly represented therefore by the elongated body which Bardeleben has seen in the base of the spear of the human spermatozoon. FERTILISATION OF THE OVUM AND THE RESULTS THAT ENSUE. Fertilisation.—The mature ovum is fertilised by a spermatozoon. The two generative elements meet, and fertilisation takes place as a rule in the upper part of the Fallopian tube. The spear of the spermatozoon penetrates the zona pellucida of the ovum, boring through it with a rotatory motion produced by the spiral membrane. At the same time a conical projection, the cone of attraction, appears on the surface of the ovum, within the zona pellucida, directly beneath the point at which the spermatozoon is entering. The head, and probably a portion of the body of the spermatozoon, plunge into the cone of attraction; the remainder of the body and the tail are cast off and disappear. The portion of the spermatozoon which enters the cytoplasm of the ovum is converted into a nucleus, the male pronucleus, which is accompanied by its attraction sphere and centrosome. When the male pronucleus is distinctly formed the granules of the cytoplasm in its neighbourhood begin to radiate around it, as if under its influence, and the pronucleus itself travels inwards. As the male pronucleus approaches the female pronucleus the latter shows signs of activity, it undergoes changes of form, and moves to meet the male pronucleus. For a time the two pronuclei lie in juxtaposition, and ultimately they fuse together, forming the first segmentation nucleus. The first segmentation nucleus is accompanied by two centrosomes which lie at its opposite poles; they are the products of the male centrosome which divides as the pronuclei fuse. The fertilised ovum, the product of the fusion of the mature ovum and the spermatozoon, contains in its nucleus, the first segmentation nucleus, the same number of chromosomes as the primitive ovum or the sperm-mother cell, but the chromosomes of the segmentation nucleus are derived partly from a male and partly from a female individual. According to some authorities, both the male and female pronuclei are accompanied by centrosomes, and at the moment of union of the pronuclei each centrosome divides; tlius four