THE NEliVUUS SYSTEM. 622 II. Lower Limb. Origin. Nerves. Distribution. Dorsal trunks Lumbo- ' sacral < Plexus Ventral trunks 'Ilio-liypogastric (iliac hraiicli) Superior gluteal Inferior gluteal Nerve to ])yrit'orniis Small sciatic . . . j External cutaneous . . -j Genito-crural (crural liraiicli) Anterior crural Peroneal .... ^ Ilio-hypogastric (liypogastiic branch) Ilio-inguinal Genito-crural (genital lirancli) Ohturator .... Nerve to obturator internus and sujjerior gemellus Nerve to quadratus feuioiis and inferior gemellus Nerve to hamstrings Small sciatic I Tibial Buttock and front Front of thigh Pront and inner side of thigh, leg, and foot Front of leg and foot Abdominal wall (ventral sur-, face) Abdominal Avail, thigh, and perineum Groin Thigli (inner side) and knee (back) Buttock and back of thiifh Back of thigli and perineum Back of knee, leg, and sole of foot surface Ventral surface In the regions of the lindts no anterior cutaneous branches, derived from the limb nerves, supply the trunk. The whole of the nerve is carried into the liml) and is absorlied in its innervation, and the dor.sal and ventral trunks foi-ming the limb-plexuses are to be looked upon as homologous with the latei-al and anterior trunks of an intercostal nerve. Two series of anomalies in relation to the formation and distribution of the nerves to the limbs must, however, be considered, because it has been suggested (Goodsir) that the nerves of tlie limbs are serially homologous with not the Mdiole, but with only the lateral branches of the anterior primary divisions of the intercostal nerves. (1) Nerves in connexion with the primitive borders of the Limbs. At the preaxial border of the upper limb, at its root, the fourth cervical nerve, which supplies the anterior and lateral surfaces of the neck, is also distributed through the supraclavicidar nerves to the skin of both ventral and dorsal surfaces of the lindi. The nerves and surfaces ai'e here not merely homologous, but in actual continuity. At the preaxial border of the lower limb, similarly, the tirst kunbar nerve, by means of the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal branches, supjjlies on the one hancTthe buttock, in series with the lateral Iwanches of the lowei' thoracic nerves, and, on the other hand, the lower part of the abdominal wall and the adjacent inner side of the thigh, in series with the anterior terminal branches of the lower thoracic nerves. At the postaxial border of the upper limb the first and second thoracic nerves are concerned in supplying trunk segments as well as parts of the limb. The first thoracic nerve, besides sujiplying the lind) through the inner cord of the plexus, also innervates at least the nm.scles of the first intercostal space ; the second thoracic nerve is concerned in the innervation of the lind), ]3rinci])ally by means of its lateral branch only, which, as the intercosto-humeral nerve, sujiplies the skin along the postaxial border of the lind) and on its dorsal side. At the postaxial border of the lower limb, in the same way, the third and iburth sacral nerves, partially implicated in the innervation of the limb (through the tibial, small sciatic, f)erforating cutaneous nerve, and ])erineal liranch of the fourth sacral nerve), are also engaged in sujjplying the trunk (perineum) through the pudic nerve. These peculiarities of arrangement of the nerves at the borders of the limbs may be exjjlained on the supposition that the segment corresponding to the nerve named is only partially concerned in limb formation, and is, at the same time, imjjlicated to a greater or less extent in the formation of structures belonging to the trunk. (2) The origin and distribution of the nerves at the postaxial border of the limbs present a special difficulty. In the composition respectively of the lirachial and lumbo-sacral plexu.ses, the first thoracic and third sacral nerves do not as a rule divide into ventral and dorsal trunks, but contribute only to the formation of the ventral series of nerves. A solution of this difficulty may be found in the examination of the areas of distribution of the nerves derived fi-om the first thoi'acic and thii'd sacral nerves. In the case of the brachial jdexus (the inner cord of which