832 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. in the carotid triangle, passes beneath the sterno-mastoid, and terminates in the anterior border of the internal jugular vein. Just before it disappears beneath the sterno-mastoid, the common facial vein frequently gives off a large branch, which descends along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid to the suprasternal fossa, where it joins the anterior jugular vein. The facial vein (v. facialis anterior. Fig. 580) commences at the inner angle of the orbit in the angular vein, which is formed by the union of the supraorbital and frontal veins. It passes downwards and backwards on the face, from the inner angle of the orbit to the lower and anterior j)art of the masseter muscle, which it crosses, lying in the same plane as the facial artery, but following a much straighter course. After crossing the lower border of the jaw it passes across the submaxillary triangle, superficial to the submaxillary gland, by which it is separated from the facial artery, which here lies in a deeper plane, and it terminates a short distance below the angle of the jaw by uniting with the anterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein to form the common facial vein. The facial vein receives tributaries corresponding with all the branches of the facial artery, except the ascending palatine and the tonsillar, which have no accompanying veins, the blood from the region which they supply being returned for the most part through the pharyngeal plexus. The facial vein also communicates, by means of an anastomosing channel, called the deep facial vein, which passes backwards between the masseter and buccinator muscles into the zygomatic fossa, with the pterygoid plexus which surrounds the external pterygoid muscle. The inferior thyroid veins have already been described (see p. 830). Subclavian Veins.—The subclavian vein (v. subclavia) of each side is the direct continuation of the main vein of the upper extremity, the axillary vein; but through its tributary, the external jugular vein, it also receives blood both from tlie superficial and deep parts of the head and neck. From its commencement at the outer border of the first rib it runs inwards below and in front of the corresponding artery, from which it is separated by the lower part of the scalenus anticus muscle, and it terminates behind the sternal end of the clavicle, in the innominate vein of the corresponding side. As it passes inwards it forms a slight curve, the convexity of which is directed upwards. Each sul)clavian vein possesses a single-l^icuspid valve which is situated imme- diately on the distal side of the opening of the external jugular vein. Relations.—The subclavian vein is in relation in front with the posterior layer of the costo-coracoid membrane, which separates it from the subclavius muscle, and the nerve to the subclavius, and with the back of the sternal end of the clavicle, froni which it is separated, however, by the fibres of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. It is closely attached in front to the posterior surface of the costo-coracoid membrane, consequently it is expanded when the clavicle is moved forwards, a condition of affairs which constitutes a distinct danger when operations are being performed in the neighbour- hood of the vein, for in the event of the vessel being wounded," forward movement of the clavicle may cause air to be sucked into the vein with fatal results. Behind the vein are the first and third parts of the subclavian artery, but it is sepa- rated from the second part by the scalenus anticus. To the inner side of the anterior scalene the postei-ior relations of the vein, in addition to the subclavian artery, are the upper part of the internal mammary artery, the phrenic nerve, and the cervical portion of the pleura. It rests below upon the upper surface of the first rib.. Tributaries.—Whilst the subclavian vein is the direct continuation of the axillary vein, and receives the blood from the upper extremity, it has, as a general rule, only one named tributary, viz. the external jugular vein. The external jugular vein (v. jugularis externa, Fig. 580) is formed on the superficial surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle, a little below and behind the angle of the jaw, by the union of the posterior auricular vein with the posterior terminal branch of the temporo-maxillanj vein. After its formation the external jugular vein descends, with a slight obliquity backwards, to the anterior part of the subclavian portion of the posterior triangle of the neck, where it pierces the deep fascia, and, after crossing in front of the third part of the subclavian artery, terminates in the subclavian vein.