133 THE NASAL BONES. which passes obliquely upwards and outwards through the orbital process and appears in the temporal fossa, to the inner side of the frontal process (foramen zygomatico-temporale). The former transmits the ramus subcutaneus malae; the latter the temporal branch of the orbital nerve. Below the orbital process there is a rough triangular area, bounded externally by the maxillary border. This articulates with the malar process of the superior maxilla and occasionally forms the outer wall of the antrum. Connexions.—The malar bone articulates with the frontal, sphenoid, superior maxilla, and temporal bones. Architecture.—In structure the bone is compact, with little cancellous tissue. Together with the zygomatic process of the temporal bone it forms the buttress which supports the superior maxilla and the outer orbital wall externally. Additional strength is imparted to the bone by the angular mode of union of its orbital and facial parts. Variations.—Cases of division of the malar bone by a horizontal suture have been recorded, as well as instances of its separation into two parts by a vertical suture. Owing to the supposed more frequent occurrence of this divided condition in Asiatics the malar has been named the os Japonicum. Barclay Smith (" Proc. Anat. Soc." Journ. Anat. and Physiol. April 1898, p. 40) describes a case in which the malar bone was divided into two parts, an upper and lower, by a backward extension of the maxilla, which articulated with the zygomatic process of the temporal, thus forming a temporo-maxillary arch. Varieties of a like kind have also been described by Gruber and others. Cases have been noted where, owing to deficiency in the development of the malar, the continuity of the zygomatic arch has been incomplete. Ossification.—The malar ossifies in membrane most probably from three centres, disposed as follows : one in the posterior part of the bone, the other two in connexion with the orbital process and orbital margin. Appearing as early as the eighth week, these centres are confluent by the beginning of the fifth month of foetal life. The Nasal Bones. The nasal bones (ossa nasalia), two in number, lie in the interval between the frontal processes of the superior maxilla, there forming the root or bridge of the nose. Each bone is of elongated quad- Fig. 104.- -KiGHT Nasal Bone. B, Inner side. A, Outer side ; rangular form, having two surfaces— an inner and outer—and four borders. The external surface, somewhat con- stricted about its middle, is convex from side to side, and slightly concavo- convex from above downwards. Near its centre there is usually the opening of a nutrient canal. The internal surface is not so ex- tensive as the external, as the superior and anterior articular borders encroach somewhat upon it above. Concave from side to side and also from above downwards it is covered, in the recent condition, by the mucous membrane of the nose. Eunning downwards along this surface is a narrow groove (sulcus ethmoidalis), which transmits the internal nasal nerve. The anterior or internal border, narrow below, is thick above, and, in con- junction with its fellow at the opposite side, with which it articulates, forms a median crest posteriorly, which is united to the nasal spine of the frontal, the vertical plate of the ethmoid, and the septal cartilage of the nose, in that order from above downwards. The posterior or external border, usually the longest, is serrated and bevelled to fit on to the anterior edge of the frontal process of the superior maxilla. The superior horder forms a wide toothed surface, which articulates with the inner part of the nasal notch of the frontal bone anteriorly; whilst, behind, it rests in contact with the root of the nasal process of the same bone. The inferior border is thin and sharp, and is connected below with the lateral cartilage of the nose, and is usually deeply notched near its mesial extremity. Connexions.—The nasal bone articulates with its fellow of the opposite side, with the frontal above, behind with the mesial plate of the ethmoid and with the frontal process of the superior maxilla. It is also united to the septal and upper lateral cartilages of the nose.