THE INTEENAL CAEOTID AETEEY. 769 it ascends beneath the posterior lielly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid, it gets to the inner side of that vessel. After entering the submaxillary triangle it ascends, in relation with the posterior surface of the parotid gland, to the carotid canal in the temporal bone, through which it passes to the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, where it turns upwards, through the upper part of the foramen lacerum medium, into the middle cranial fossa. It then runs forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus to the lower root of the small wing of the sphenoid, where it turns upwards and then backwards and outwards to its termination. Relations.—The relations of tlie various parts of the artery require separate consideration. In the neck.—Posterior.—The rectus capitis anticus major, the prevertebral fascia and the sympathetic cord, separate it from the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and somewhat to its outer side are the internal jugular vein and the vagus nerve. The spinal accessory and the glosso-pharyngeal nerves are also behind and to the outer side of the artery in the upper part of the neck, and they intervene between it and the internal jugular vein. Internal or deep to the internal carotid is the external carotid artery for a short distance below, and afterwards the wall of the pharynx, the ascending j^haryngeal artery, the pharyngeal plexus of veins, and the external and internal laryngeal nerves. Just before it enters the temporal bone the levator palati muscle is to its inner side. External or superficial to it are the sterno-mastoid, skin, and fascia, and it is crossed beneath the sterno-mastoid from below upwards by the hypoglossal nerve, the occipital artery, and the posterior auricular artery. It is also crossed more superficially by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and in the upper part of its extent it is covered by the po.sterior p)art of the parotid gland. Passing obliquely across its anterior and outer sur-. face, and sejmruting it from the external carotid artery, are the following structures, viz. : the stylo-pharyngeus, the tip of the styloid process or the stylo-glossus muscle, the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, and some sympathetic twigs. In the carotid canal.—The artery, as it passes upwards and inwards, is in front of and below the cochlea and the tympanum ; behind and internal to the canals for the Eustachian tube and the tensor tymjmni; and below the Gasserian ganglion. The thin lamina of bone which separates it from the tympanum is frequently perforated, and that between it and the Gasserian ganglion is not infrequently absent. In its course through the canal it is accompanied by small veins and nerves. The veins are tributaries from the tympanum, which communicate above with the cavernous sinus and below with the internal jugular vein. The nerves are the upward continuations of the sympathetic cord ; they form two jjlexuses—one on the outer side of the artery, the carotid plexus, and one on the inner side, the cavernous plexus. As it eni:ers the cavity of the cranium the internal carotid artery pierces the external layer of the dura mater and passes between the lingula and the sixth cranial nerve externally, and the posterior petrosal process of the body of the sphenoid internally. In the cranial cavity.—The artery funs forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus in relation with the third, fourth, the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth cranial nerves externally, and with the endothelial wall of the sinus internally. When it reaches the lower root of the small wing of the sphenoid it turns upwards to the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, pierces the inner layer of the dura mater, and comes into close relation with the under surface of the optic nerve inunediately behind the optic foramen. It then turns abruptly backwards beneath the optic nerve, and on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process which it frequently grooves; inclining outwards, it runs between the second and thii'd nerves, and beneath the anterior perforated space, to the inner end of the stem of the Sylvian fissure, where it turns upwards, at some distance from the outer side of the optic chiasma, and, after piercing the arachnoid, divides into its two terminal branches, the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. Branches of the Internal Carotid Artery. Branches are given off from the internal carotid in the temporal bone and in the cranium, but, as a rule-, no branches are given off in the neck. In the temporal bone.—(1) A tympanic branch (ramus carotico-tympanicus), very small, perforates the posterior wall of the carotid canal, and anastomoses in the tympanum witli the stylo-mastoid artery and with the tympanic branches of the internal maxillary and ascending pharvngeal arteries. 49 " ^