OSTEOLOGY. 200 Uncilbni Pisiform facet on its inferior surface for articulation with the metacarpal bone of the thunil). From its ^)a/?ftar aspect there rises a prominent ridge, within which is a groove along which tlie tendon of tlie Hexor carpi radialis muscle passes. The ridge furnishes an attachment for the an- terior annular ligament, as well as for some of the short muscles of tiie thumb. The superior surface has a half oval facet for the scaphoid, external towhicli it is rougli, and becomes continuous with the non-articular external aspect, which serves for the attachment of ligaments. On its inner surface there are two i'acets; the upper is a half (ival, concave from above downwards, and verj^ slightly convex from before backwards, and is for articulation with the trapezoid. The lower, small and circular, and not always present, is for articulation with the outer side of the base of the second luetacarpal l)one. The dorsal surface, of irregular outline, is rough for the attachment of liga- four l)()nes, tlie scaphoid, trapezoid, and the 143.—Thk Rii;ht Cunkikohm Bonk. Fi(!. 144.- Cuiieiforni The Rk;ht Pisiform Bone. Separated from this Tiaiiezoid' ments. The trapezium articulates witli first and second metacarpal bones. Trapezoid Bone Tos multangulum minus).—With the exception of the pisiform, this is the smallest of the carpal bones. Its rough pabnar surface is small and pentagonal in outline. By a small oblong surface on its superior aspect it articulates with the scaphoid. hiferiorly, by a somewhat saddle-shaped surface, it articulates with the base of the second metacarpal. by a rougli V-shaped impression, is the surface on the outer side for articulation with the trape- zium ; this appears as if obliquely grooved from before backwards and downwards. The internal facet for articulation with the os magnum is narrow from above downwards, and deeply curved from before backwards. Tlie dorsal surface of the bone, which is rough and non-articular, is much larger than the palmar aspect. The mass of the bone, dorsally, is directed downwards and towards the ulnar side. The trapezoid articulates with four bones—the trapezium, scaphoid, os. magnum, and the second metacarpal. Os Magnum (os capitatum).—This is the largest of the carpal bones. Its 'palmar surface is rough and rounded. The superior portion of the bone forms the head, and is furnished with convex articular facets which fit into the hollows on the inferior surfaces of the scaphoid and semilunar; that for the latter is internal to and separated by a slight ridge from the scaphoid articular area. Tlie inferior surface, narrow towards its palmar l)order and broad dorsally, is subdivided usually into three Sc:i]il]oiil Fic. 145.—Thk Richt Tdai'kziu.m.