THE ALLANTOIS AND UMBILICAL COED. 49 posterior part of the embryonic area, and the area is curved upon itself so that its convexity looks towards the entodermal sac, and its concavity towards the amnion. After the embryonic area has increased in extent, and when the folding off of the embryo has commenced, the anterior end of the area and the posterior end of the primitive streak remain relatively stationary as in other mammals, the cephalic and caudal folds appear, and the curvature of the greater part of the area is reversed, but the most posterior part retains its original position, lying for a time parallel with the caudal fold; afterwards, however, it assumes a more horizontal position. This posterior section of the embryonic area contains the diverticular process of the entodermal sac which is called the allantois; it also contaiirs the blood-vessels, allantoic arteries and veins, which pass between the embryo and the placenta. It is in relation at first with the amnion, it appears to be entirely behind the embryo, and it is called the " body-stalk." At a later period, when the stalk of mesoderm—the allantoic stalk—which connects it v^ith the inner surface of the chorion is elongated, this part of the embryonic area is reversed in position, its anterior end is carried forwards till it forms the posterior boundary of the umbilical oiifice, and it forms the ventral wall of the body from the umbilical to tlie genital region. The Allantois.—The allantois plays an important part in the formation of the placenta. It consists of two portions, an entodermic diverticulum from the ventral wall of the cloacal part of the hind-gut, and a mesodermal covering. The ento- dermic diverticulum appears in the human subject, before the hind-gut is defined, as a hollow blind protrusion from the blastodermic cavity; it extends behind the primitive streak into the mesoderm of the body-stalk, but as the folding oft' of the embryo proceeds and the body-stalk is carried forward into the ventral wall of the embryo, the position of the diverticulum is altered, and ultimately, when the folding oft' is completed, it springs from the ventral part of the cloaca, runs forward to the umbilical orifice and passing through it, projects for a short distance still invested with the mesodermal covering primarily obtained from the body-stalk. The ventral part of the cloaca is afterwards converted into the bladder, while the rectum is formed from the dorsal part. The mesodermal sheath which surrounds the entodermic diverticulum extends beyond it to the inner surface of the chorion; the part which extends beyond the diverticulum is at first extremely short, indeed it is only recognisable as a layer of mesoderm uniting the body-stalk and chorion, but as development proceeds and the body-stalk is absorbed into the embryo it is elongated, and it forms the allantoic stalk by which the embryo retains its connexion with the chorion, and along which pass the allantoic or umbilical arteries to, and the corresponding veins from, the chorionic villi. After the separation of the cloaca into bladder and rectum, that portion of the allantois which lies in the body of the embryo, between the apex of the bladder and the umbilical orifice, is gradually converted into a fibrous cord, the urachus. The entodermal diverticulum disappears, and after birth, when the placental circu- lation ceases, the umbilical arteries are transformed into fine fibrous strands. The remainder of the allantois which lies outside the body of the embryo, and which takes part in the formation of the umbilical cord and placenta, is separated from the embryo at birth. The 'Umbilical Cord.—The umbilical cord is essentially a mesodermal structure which connects the embryo with the placenta, serving as a passage for the allantoic vessels to and from the foetal portion of the latter organ. It replaces the body- stalk and the allantoic stalk, which were earlier provisions for the same purpose, and it is formed by the fusion of the allantoic stalk with part of the vitello- intestinal duct and the remains of the yolk-sac. The vitello-intestinal duct is at first a relatively wide channel which connects the primitive gut with the yolk-sac; and it passes through the umbilical orifice. In later stages, as the body-stalk is swung round into the ventral wall of the body, the allantoic stalk, which projects from the end of the body-stalk, is brought into close relation with the distal end of the vitello-intestinal duct and the remains of the yolk-sac; the mesodermal constitiients of the three structures then fuse 4