INTERNAL STRUCTUEE OF THE MEDULLA. 461 Formatio Reticularis.—Behind the olive and the pyramid is the formatio reticularis. In the medulla it occupies a position which, to a large extent, corre- sponds with that of the lateral column in the spinal cord. In transverse section it appears as an extensive area, which is divided into a lateral and a mesial field by the root fascicles of the hypoglossal nerve as they traverse the substance of the medulla to reach the surface. In the lateral portion which lies behind the olive there is a considerable quantity of gray matter, continuous with that in the cord, present in the reticular formation; it is, therefore, called the formatio reticularis grisea. In the mesial part wliich lies behind the pyramid the gray matter is extremely scanty, and the reticular matter here is termed the formatio reticularis alba. In the formatio grisea the cells which are scattered thickly amongst the intersecting bundles of fibres correspond to the strand-cells of the cord. They possess short axons, which serve to l)ind different levels of the medulla to each other. They therefore constitute association fibres. Certain conij^act masses of gray matter are also seen in the formatio grisea. Of these may be mentioned (a) the dorsal accessory olivary nucleus, which has been already described, and (b) the nucleus lateralis. The nucleus lateralis is seen in the region between the olive and the substantia gelatinosa Rolandi. In the upper -pavt of the medulla it gradually becomes diffuse and dis- appears. Except in the immediate vicinity of the raphe, the formatio alba may be said to be devoid of cells. The mesial accessory olive, however, forms an isolated compact mass of gray matter within its limits. The nerve fibres which traverse the formatio reticularis run both in a transverse and a longitudinal direction. The transverse fibres are the deep arcuate fibres. The longitudinal fibres are derived from difterent sources in the two fields. In the formatio grisea they represent to a large extent the fibres of the lateral column of the cord, after the removal of the direct cerebellar and the crossed pyramidal tracts. They consist, therefore, of the fibres of the tract of Gowers and of fibres correspond- ing to the lateral basis-bundle of the cord. In the formatio alba the longitudinal fibres are the tract of the fillet and the posterior longitudinal bundle, both of which have already been sufficiently described. Central Canal and the Gray Matter which surrounds it.—The central canal, as it proceeds upwards tlirough the closed part of the medulla, is gradually forced to assume a more dorsal position, owing to the accumulation of fibres on its ventral aspect. First the decussation of the pyramids, and then the decussation of the fillet, both of which take place in front of the canal, tend to push it backwards; and the formation of the longitudinal strands in which these intercrossings result (viz. the pyramid and the fillet), together with the continuation upwards of the anterior basis-bundle, lead to a great increase in the amount of tissue which separates it from the anterior surface of the medulla. In the closed part of the medulla it is surrounded by a thick layer of gray matter, which is continuous with the basal portions of the anterior and posterior horns of gray matter in the cord. This central gray matter is sharply defined on each side by the deep arcuate fibres which curve forwards and inwards around it. Finally, the central canal opens on the dorsal aspect of the medulla into the cavity of the fourth ventricle. The central mass of gray matter which surrounds the canal in the closed part of the medulla is now spread out in a thick layer on the floor of the fourth ventricle, and in such a manner that the portion which corresponds to the basal part of the anterior horn of the cord is situated close to the mesial plane, whilst the part which represents the base of the posterior horn occupies a more lateral position. This is important, because the nucleus or origin of the motor hypoglossal nerve is placed in the mesial part of the floor, whilst the nuclei of termination of the afferent fibres of tlie vagus, glosso-pharyngeal, and auditory nerves lie in the lateral part of the floor. The gray matter of the ventricular floor is covered by ependyma. Three Areas of Flechsig.—In transverse sections, through the upper open part of the medulla, the root fibres of tlie hyjjoglossal and vagus nerves are seen traversing the substance of the medulla. The nucleus of origin of the hypoglossal is placed in the gray matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle close to the mesial plane ; the nucleus of termination of the vagus is situated in the gray matter of the ventricular floor immediately to the outer side of the hypo- glossal nucleus. From these luiclei the root-bundles of the two nerves diverge from each other