THE VASCULAK SYSTEM. 890 PrL PrN SoSA post-transverse anastomosing cliannels. Moreover, each dorsal branch, as it passes bv the corre- sponding intervertebral foramen, gives a spinal offset which enters the sjjinal canal along the corresponding nerve-root, and divides into a dorsal, a ventral, and a neural branch. The dorsal branches of these spinal arteries are connected together along the ventral surfaces of the laminte by i^re-laminar anastomoses, and the ventral branches are united on the dorsal surfaces of the vertebral centra with their fellows above and below by post-central anastomoses ; they are also united with their fellows of the opposite side by transverse communicating channels. The neural branches of the spinal arteries divide similarly into dorsal and ventral branches; the dorsal branches of each side are connected together by jDOst-neural anastomoses, and the ventral Ijranches unite in the middle line both with their fellows above and below and with tliose of the opposite side, forming a single longitudinal pre-neural trunk. In the dorsal and lumbar regions of the liody the somatic segmental arteries persist and form the intercostal and lumbar arteries. These vessels spring from the dorsal aspect of the descending aorta, usually in jiairs. The corresponding vessels of ojiiDosite sides, liow- ever, occasionally fuse together at their origins, simult aneously with the fusion of the dorsal longitudinal trunks to form the descending aorta, and then tliey arise by common stems. The precostal anastomoses l)etween the ventral branches of the somatic segmental arteries are only represented in the dorsal region by the superior intercostal arteries; in the lumbar region they disappear entirely. The anastomoses between the anterior ends of the ventral branches of the somatic seg- mental arteries jjersist as the internal mammary and deep epigastric arteries. The lateral offsets of the ventral branches are repre- sented by the cutaneous arteries which accomiDany the lateral cutaneous branches of the spinal nerves. The post-costal and post- transverse anastomoses usually disappear in the dorsal and lumbar regions, but the post- costal anastomoses occasionally persist in the u])per dorsal region, and take part in the formation of the vertebral artery, which in such cases arises from the first or second intercostal artery. In some carnivores the j)ost-costal longitudinal vessels persist in a trunk which is connected with the first VSo 609.—Diagram showing the Arrangement and Communications OF THE Segmental and Intersegmental Arteries at an early Stage of Development. C, Coeiora ; D.Sp, Dorsal splanchnic anastomosis ; In, Intestine ; I.V, Inter- iiiediate visceral artery ; L.B, Lateral branch of the ventral division of a somatic segmental artery ; P.C, Post-central anastomosis ; P.D.A, Primitive dorsal aorta ; Po.C, Post-costal anastomosis ; Po.N, Post- neural anastomosis ; Po.T, Post-transverse anastomosis ; Pr.C, Pre- costal anastomosis ; Pr.L, Pre-laniinar anastomosis ; Pr.N, Pre-nenral anastomosis ; So.S.A, Somatic .segmental artery ; Sp.S.A, Splanchnic segmental artery ; V.E.D, Branch to a ventral enteric diverticulum ; V.So, Ventral somatic anastomosis ; V.Sp, Ventral splanchnic ana- stomosis. the Upper dorsal region, and form, on each side aortic intercostal, and which sujjplies the five anterior intercostal spaces. The pre-laminar, the jiost-central, and the pre- and ijost-neural anastomoses persist, the two latter aiding in the formation of the dorsal and lumbar portions of the pre- and j^ost-spinal arteries resjjectively. It is in the cervical region, however, that the most interesting changes occur. The first .six pairs of somatic segmental arteries lose their connexions witli the dorsal roots of the aortic arches, i.e., in other words, with the longitudinal anastomosing channels in this region. The seventh pair, however, persist in their entirety; and from them are formed, on the right side, a portion of the subclavian trunk, and on the left side the whole of the subclavian stem from its com- mencement up to the origin of the vertebral artery. On each side the ventral branch of the seventh segmental artery forms tliat portion of the subclavian arteiy which lies between the origins of the vertebral and internal mammary arteries, and also the trunk of the internal mammary artery as far as the upper border of the first costal cartilage. The remainder of the internal mammary arterj^ rejjresents the ventral longitudinal anastomoses between the ventral