334 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. muscles in its further course in the forearm, and at the wrist it crosses the radial artery. Tlie extensor brevis pollicis, an essentially human miiscle, is a specialised portion of the previous muscle. It arises from the back of the radius and the interosseous membrane below the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. It is closely adherent to that muscle, and accompanies it beneath the posterior annular ligament and over the radial artery to the thumb. Its tendon is then continued along the back of the first metacarpal bone, and the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, to be inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Before reaching its insertion the tendon helps to form the capsule of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. In the forearm the muscle is deeply placed beneath tiie superficial extensors, and is separated from the extensor longus pollicis by the posterior interosseous nerve. The extensor longus pollicis arises from the posterior or extensor surface of the ulna, and I'rom the interosseous membrane, below the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Its tendon grooves the back of the radius, and occupies a special compart- ment beneath the posterior annular ligament. Extending obliquely across the back of the hand, it is inserted into the base of the second phalanx of the thumb. The muscle is deeply placed beneath the superficial extensors of the forearm, and lies between the extensor brevis pollicis and the extensor indicis. It separates the posterior interosseous artery from the nerve, the latter passing beneath it. On the back of the hand the tendon crosses the radial artery, and helps to form the capsule of tlie first metacarpo-phalangeal articulation. The extensor indicis (m. extensor indicis proprius) arises below the extensor longus pollicis from tlie back of the ulna, and sometimes also from the interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes through a compartment of the posterior annular ligament along with the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum, and is inserted into the forefinger, joining the membranous expansion of the tendon of the extensor communis digitorum on the dorsum of the first phalanx. Lying deeply in the forearm, the muscle is placed internal to the extensor longus pollicis, and covers the posterior interosseous nerve. On the back of the hand its tendon lies on the inner side of the tendon of the common extensor destined for the forefinger. Nerve Supply. Four nerves are engaged in suppljdng tlie muscles of the forearm and hand—the median and ulnar on the front, the musculo-spiral and posterior interosseous nerves on the back of the limb. Muscles. A. Pronators and Flexors. Pronator radii teres Flexor carpi radialis [ Palmaris longus j Flexor sublimis digitorum Flexor carpi ulnaris . Flexor j^rofundus digitorum Flexor longus jwUicus) Pronator quadratus / B. Muscles of the Hand. Abductor pollicis Opponens pollicis Flexor brevis pollicis (superficial) Flexor brevis pollicis (deep) Adductor obliquus jjoUicis Adductor transversus pollicis Lumbricales 1st and 2nd . Lumbricales 3rd and 4th Interossei Flexor brevis minimi digiti r Opponens minimi digiti Abductor minimi digiti Nerves. Median .... C. 6. Ulnar .... c. 8. T. 1. Ulnar and anterior in- c. 8. T. 1. terosseous (median) c. 7. 8. T. 1. Anterior interosseous . c. 7. 8. T. 1. Median . Ulnar . Median . Ulnar . Origin. C. 6. 7. C. 8. (T. 1). C. 6. 7. C. 8. (T. 1).