489 DEVELOPMENT OF THE CEREBELLUM. The roof of the fourth ventricle is formed for the most part by the thin epithelial layer already described as being formed by the expanded mid-dorsal lamina. This does not stretch, however, over its entire extent. As we approach the upper part of the ventricle, it is seen to become continuous in the region of the isthmus with a thicker lamella. This lamella is bounded above by the intercrossing of the two trochlear nerves, which marks on the dorsal aspect of the neural tube the place of junction between the rhombencephalon and the mesencephalon; below, it is limited by a for- wardly-directed semilunar fold of the thin epithelial ventricular roof, which takes place into the ventricular cavity at the level of the,pontine flexure of the brain. The fold so constituted is termed the plica choroidea, seeing that mesoderm is introduced be- tween its two layers, and this ultimately gives rise to the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle (Fig. 362, D). The lamella whicla forms the roof or dorsal wall of the ven- tricle in front of the plica choroidea is developed into the inferior medul- lary velum, the cere- bellum, and the superior medullary velum (valve of Vieussens). The cerebellar portion of this lamella in mesial sections through the brain is soon strongly demar- cated from the medullary vela by tlie great thicken- ing it undergoes in a dorsal direction. At first the thick- ened cerebellar lamella forms a simple uniform arch around the dorsal aspect of the upper part of the fourth ventricle. In a short time, however, it becomes thinner along the median plane, whilst it increases in bulk on either side (Fig. 362, A). As a result of this, the cerebellum is now seen to consist of two thick plates joined by a narrow and thin median portion. This bilateral condition of the organ is transitory. In the fiu'ther course of development the two plates fuse completely in the middle line (Fig. 362, B), and sulci then begin to make their appearance on the dorsal aspect of the organ. The sulci which come earliest into view are limited to the region of the worm. The first sulcus appears between the regions corresponding to the monticulus cerebelli and the clivus cerebelli, and in the adult cerebellum this may be seen to be the deepest of all the fissures of the vermiform process. It may be termed the sulcus primarius (Fig. 362, C, D, E). The portion of the vermis which lies below this fissure soon shows other sulci. One appears above the region of the pyramid, another between the pyramid and uvula, whilst a third marks off the nodule. All this time the portion of the vermis above the sulcus primarius remains more or less smooth, but very soon it becomes divided up into its constituent parts. The earliest sulcus to appear in the lateral hemisphere is the great horizontal sulcus (Fig. 362, C). This at first consists of separate portions in the two hemispheres, and it is only in the later months of development that these run together over the vei'mis, so as to separate the tuber valvulse from the declive monticuli. Even at the time of birth the folium cacuminis is not seen on the surface. It rises up from the bottom of the horizontal sulcus in the form of a secondary' folium of the declive monticuli. Very early a transverse groove appears on the smooth anterior or ventricular surface Fig. 362.—Feom Drawings by Dr. Walther Kuithan, to illustrate the Development of the Cerebellum. A. Transverse section through the forepart of the cerebellum of a sheep embryo. B. Transverse section through the hinder part of the cerebellum of a sheep embryo. C. Cerebellum of a human foetus 17 cm. long. D. Median section through the cerebellum of a sheep embryo .5 cm. long. E. Median section through cerebellum of human fcetus 17 cm. long. 1. Sulcus primarius. 3. Sulcus between pyramid and uvula. 2. Sulcus above aud afterwards behind 4. Great horizontal fissure. the pyramid. T. Transverse groove in roof of veu- r.l. Lateral recess ventricle IV. tricle IV.