BEANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 805 Posterior division | parietal Anterior division I Ilio-lumbar - Lateral sacral [Gluteal /'Obturator parietal - Sciatic [internal pudic {Superior vesical (Obliterated hypogastric) Middle vesical Inferior vesical Middle hsemorrlioidal In the female the inferior vesical is replaced by a vaginal branch., and an additional uterine branch is given offi Branches of the Posterior Division. The posterior terminal division gives off the ilio-lumbar and lateral sacral arteries, and is continued as the gluteal artery. No visceral branches are derived from this division. 1. Ilio-lumbar Artery (a. ilio-lumbalis).—This vessel runs upwards and outwards across the brim of tlie pelvis to the iliac fossa. It passes in front of the sacro-iliac articulation, between the luml;)0-sacral cord and the obturator nerve, and liehind either the lower part of the common or the upper part of the external iliac vessels and the psoas and iliacus muscles. In the iliac fossa it anastomoses with branches of the deep circumflex iliac and obturator arteries. It also gives offsets to the iliacus, and supplies a large nutrient branch to the ilium. A lumbar branch (ramus lumbalis) ascends beneath the psoas to the crest of the ilium. It suppUes the psoas and quadratus luiul)oriim, and anastomoses with the luml)ar and deep circumflex iliac arteries; it also gives off a spinal hranch which enters the intervertebral foramen between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, and is distrilxited .like the spinal branches of the lumbar and aortic intercostal arteries. 2. Lateral Sacral Arteries (aa. sacrales laterales).;— Tliere is sometimes only a single lateral sacral artery on each side; more commonly there are two, superior and inferior. Both branches run downwards and inwards on the front of the sacrum. The inferior passes in front of the pyriformis and the sacral nerves, aiid descends on the outer side of the sympathetic cord to the coccyx where it terminates by anastomosing with the middle sacral. The superior branch only reaches as far as the first or the second anterior sacral tVjramen, and then it enters the sacral canal. It anastomoses with the lower branch and with tlie middle sacral artery. Transverse branches are given off' by the lateral sacral arteries to the pyriformis, and to the sacral nerves. Spinal offsets are also given off, which pass through the anterior sacral foramina to the sacral canal; they supply the membranes of the cord, the roots of the sacral nerves, and the filum terminale, and anastomose with other spinal arteries. They then pass backwards through the posterior sacral foramina, and anastomose on the back of the sacrum with l)ranches of the gluteal and sciatic arteries. 3. Gluteal Artery (a. glutsea superior. Figs. 569 and 575).—After giving off the iho-lumbar and lateral sacral branches, the posterior division of the internal iliac is continued as the gluteal artery. This is a large vessel which pierces the pelvic fascia, passes backwards between the lumljo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve, and leaves the pelvis through the upper part of the great sciatic foramen. It runs above the pyriformis muscle to the buttock, immediately on reaching which it terminates, between the adjacent l)orders of the pyriformis and gluteus medius muscles and beneath the gluteus maximus, by dividing into superficial and deep branches. («) The superficial branch divides at once into numei-ous branches, some of which supply