UEOGENITAL SYSTEM. 1120 Cowper's linlhii tlie prostate is called the prostatic portion ; tlie short portion wliicli pierces the pelvic wall is the membranous portion, and the part surrounded by the corpus spongiosum receives the name of spongy portion. Of these three sections of the urethra the spongy portion is much the longest, and the membranous is the shortest. Prostatic Portion of the Urethra. — The prostatic part (pars prostatica) of the urethra descends through the prostate from the liase towards the apex, describing a slight curve which is concave forwards. It is about one inch in length, and is narrower above and lielow tlian in its ]niddle portion, whichj,is indeed the widest part of the wliole xirethral canal. Except while Huid is passing, the>canal is collapsed, and the mucous membrane of the anterior and posterior walls is in contact, and thrown into a series of longitiidinal folds. When distended, the middle, or widest part of the canal, may normally have a diameter of about one- third of an inch. Tlie yiosterior wall, often termed the "floor "of the prostatic urethra, presents a distinct mesial ridge or elevation, called the crista urethrse (crista urethralis) or verumontanum (Fig. 767). This projects forwards into the urethra to such an extent that the canal presents in transverse section a crescentic outline. In the depressions or grooves on each side of the crista urethne the numerous ducts of the prostatic glands open by minute apertures. Some few ducts from the middle part of the gland open in the middle line, either just above or just below the urethral crest. On the summit of the crista urethrte is a slit-like open- ing which leads backwards and upwards for a distance of about a quarter of. an inch, as a blind pouch, in the substance of the prostate. This little' cavity is the prostatic utricle (utriculus prostaticus) or sinus pocularis, and represents the uterus and vagina of the female, being developed AND • from the fused posterior ends of the Miillerian ducts. On each side of the mouth of the utricle is the much more minute opening of the common ejaculatory duct. When traced upwards towards the bladder, the urethral crest, diminishing in height, becomes indistinct, but in some cases it can be traced as far as the uvula vesiccB. When followed in the opposite direction the ridge becomes less marked, and can be followed on the urethral wall into the membranous portion of the canal, where it divides into a pair of slight folds or elevations (Fig. 767). Membranous Part of the Urethra. — The second or membrajious portion (pars membranacea) of the urethra leads downwards and forwards from the apex of the prostate to the bulb of the corpus spongiosum, and is the shortest and narrowest of the three subdivisions of the canal, its length being somewhat less than half an inch. It begins at the deep layer of the triangular ligament, where it is con- tinuous with the prostatic portion, and ends by piei-cing the superficial layer, to become continuous with the spongy portion of the urethra. Placed in front of tlie rectum, it lies about one inch behind and below the sub-pubic ligament, and is surrounded by fibres of the compressor urethrse muscle. Behind it, on each side of the mesial plane,, are Cowper's glands. The membranous part of the urethra enters the bulb at a point somewhat in front of its posterior extremity, and, owing to the oblique direction of the canal as it joins the bulb, the anterior, or upper wall, of the passage is longer than the posterior wall or floor (Fig. 765). Furtlier, tlie posterior part of the bulb projects so much backwards that it overlaps to a con- siderable extent the posterior wall of the second part of the urethra. Pars cavpi'iiosa uretlirn' Fig. 767.— Upper opened from in posterior wall The Pko.static, Portion of the Membranous, Spongy Urethra, front and above to sliow the floor. The minute openings of the common ejaculatory ducts and the orifice of the sinus pocularis are seen upon the crista urethrae.