THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 604 branch, in the upper part of Scarpa's triangle. The two branches descend vertically and become cutaneous by piercing the fascia lata over the upper third of the sartorius muscle. They carry muscular branches to the sartorius, and the external branch in many cases pierces the muscle. These two nerves supply the skin of the lower three-fourths of the front of the thigh, between the external cutaneous nerve on the outer side and the internal cutaneous on the inner side. They reach down to the front of the patella, and there assist in the formation of the patellar plexus. The external branch communicates in the upper third of the thigh- with twigs from the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve. The internal cutaneous nerve lies at first in Scarpa's triangle on the outer side of the femoral vessels. At the apex of the triangle it crosses over the femoral vessels, and is directed downwards over or through the sartorius muscle, and beneath the fascia lata to the lower third of the thigh. It is distributed to the skin of the lower two-thirds of the thigh on the inner side by means of three branches—upper, middle, and lower. The upper branch may be represented by two or more twigs. It arises from the main nerve near its origin, and pierces the fascia lata near the apex of Scarpa's triangle. It is distributed to the skin of the upper part of the thigh, along the line of the saphenous vein. The middle or anterior branch is a larger nerve. It separates from the lower branch at the apex of Scarpa's triangle, and passing over the sartorius muscle becomes cutaneous in the middle third of the thigh on the inner side. It supplies the skin of the lower half of the thigh on the inner side, extending as low as the knee, where it joins in the formation of the patellar plexus. The lovjer or internal branch represents the termination of the nerve. It passes down the inner side of the thigh over the sartorius muscle, and communicates in the middle third of the thigh with the internal saphenous and obturator nerves to form the obturator plexus. Piercing the fascia lata on the inner side of the thigh in the lower third, it ramifies over the inner side of the knee, and assists in the formation of the patellar plexus. The size of the internal cutaneous nerve varies with the size of the cutaneous part of the obturator, and of the internal saphenous nerve. The long or internal saphenous nerve (n. saphenus) may be regarded as the terminal branch of the anterior crural nerve. It is destined for the skin of the leg and foot. From its origin in Scarpa's triangle it descends alongside the femoral vessels to Hunter's canal. In the canal it crosses over the femoral sheath from without inwards. At the lower end of the canal, accompanied by the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery, it passes over the tendon of the adductor magnus, and opposite the inner side of the knee joint becomes cutaneous by passing between the sartorius and gracilis muscles. The nerve then extends down the leg along with the internal saphenous vein, and coursing over the front of the inner ankle it terminates at the middle of the inner border of the foot. Branches.—1; A communicating branch arises in Hunter's canal, and passing inwards beneath the sartorius joins with branches of the obturator nerve in forming the obturator plexus. 2. The patellar branch arises at the lower end of Hunter's canal, and piercing the sartorius muscle is directed downwards and forwards below the patella, and over the inner tuberosity of the tibia to the front of the knee and upper part of the leg. It enters into the formation of the patellar plexus. 3. An articular branch sometimes arises from the nerve at the inner side of the knee. 4. The terminal branches of the internal saplienous nerve are distributed to the skin of the front and inner side of tlie leg, and the posterior half of the dorsum and inner side of the foot. Patellar plexus.—This plexus consists of fine communications beneath the skin in front of the knee, between the branches of the cutaneous nerves supplying that region. The nerves which enter into its formation are the patellar branch of the internal saphenous, internal and middle cutaneous nerves, and sometimes the external cutaneous nerve.