THE PINi^A. 101 = Auricular index. situated below the incisura iutertragica, and is the most dependent part of the pinna. The inner or cranial surface is also irregular and presents elevations corre- sponding to the depressions on its outer surface, e.g. eminentia conchse, eminentia triangularis, etc. The pinna is usually smaller and more finely modelled in the female than in the male, but presents great variations in size and shape in different individuals. In the newly-born child its length is aliout one-third of that of tlie adult, while it increases slightly in lengtli and breadth in old age. The relation of the width to the heiglit is termed the aiu-icular index and is expressed as follows :— width of pinna x 100 lengtli of pinna This index is less in white than in dark races. The cephalo-auricular angle may be jaractically absent, as in those cases where the skin of the liead joasses directly on to the outer surface of tlie pinna, or it may be increased to nearly a right angle, so that the outer surface of the pinna looks directly forwards. The tuberculum superius, the significance of which was recognised by Darwin, is a somewhat triangular prominence which ]irojects forwards when the helix is well rolled over, but backwards and upwards when the incurving of tlie helix lias been arrested. More frequently present in men than in women, it is of developmental interest since it has Ijeen shown to be well marked at the sixtli month of foetal life, the entire pinna exhibiting, at tliis stage, the appearance of tliat of the adult macaque. The lobule may be small and sessile or considerably elongated ; it may adhere to the skin of the cheek (webbed) or may tend to bifurcate at its lower extremity. Structure of the Pinna.—The greater part of the pinna consists of a lamella of yellow libro-cartilage, the cartilage auriculae; the cartilage is however absent from the lobule, which is composed of adipose tissue. When laid bare, the carti- laginous lamella (Figs. 511, 512) presents, in an exaggerated condition, all the in- equalities of the pinna, and is seen to be prolonged inwards, to form a considerable portion of the external auditory meatus. The cartilage of the helix projects anteriorly as a conical eminence, the spina helieis, whilst its inferior extremity ex- tends downwards as a tail-like process, the cauda lielicis, which is separated from the lower part of the antitragus by a fissure, termed the fissura antitragohelicina. The cartilage of the pinna is continuous with that of the meatus by a narrow isthmus (isthmus cartilaginis auris) measuring from 8-9 mm. in breadth. This isthmus corresponds externally with the deepest part of the incisura intertragica, and internally it forms the outer boundary of a deep fissure, the incisura terminalis auris, which separates the cartilage of the meatus from that of the concha. The upper edge of the tragus fits into an angle below the crus helieis. If tlie incisura terminalis auris, together with the istlinms and the incisura intertragica, be taken as representing the boundary between the cartilage of the pinna and that of the meatus, it follows that the tragus really forms a part of the meatal cartilage. On the cranial aspect of the cartilage (Fig. 512) the eminences produced by the concha and fossa triangularis are separated by a transverse furrow, the sulcus anti- helicis transversus, corresponding with the crus antihelicis inferior; further, the eminentia conchte is crossed horizontally by a groove, the sulcus cruris helieis, and almost vertically by a slight ridge, the ponticulus : the latter indicates the attach- ment of the retrahens auriculam muscle. In addition to the fissures described, others, termed the fissures of Santorini, are found, usually one in the tragus and one or more in the cartilage of the meatus. M. lielicis major —r. Spina helieis —| M. lielicis minor M. tragicus Fissure of Santorini--V^ Istlimus cartila-— "inis auris Incisura terminalis auris M. antitragicns Pissura antitragolifilicina Cauda helieis Fig. 511.- -OuTEii Surface of Cartilage of Pinna (one-half natural size).