719 MEMBEANOUS LABYRINTH Lumen of mem- branous canal Periosteum Fiu. 525. reagents, splits into several finer filaments. The nerve fibres pierce the membrana propria and end in arborisations around the deep extremities of the hair cells. A collection of small, rhombic crystals of carbonate of lime, termed otoconia, adheres to each of the macuhe. The membranous semicircular canals (ductus semicirculares) are elliptical on transverse section (Fig. 525) and possess a calibre equal to about one-fourth of that of the bony tubes, to the greater circumference of which they are attached. The peripheral portion of the ellipse is fixed to the periosteal lining of the bony canal, whilst the opposite part is free, ex- cept that it is connected by irregular bands, the ligamenta labyrinthi can- aliculorum, which pass through the perilymphatic space to the bony wall. The membranous canals are dilated in the bony ^ampuilte. and the mem- braiious ampullse (am- pull;e inembranacete) are distinctly marked off from the concave aspect of the canals. Each membranous canal consists of three layers, viz.: (a) "an outer fibrous stratum which contains blood-vessels, together with some pigment, and fixes the tAibe to the bony wall; (6) an intermediate, transparent tunica propria, presenting a number of papilliform elevations which project towards the lumen. . The fibrous layer and tunica propria are thinnest along the attached surface of the tube, and in this region also the papilliform elevations are absent; (c) an internal epithelial layer, composed of pavement cells. In the ampullte the tunica propria is much thickened and projects into the cavity as a transverse elevation, termed the septum transversum, which, when seen from above, is somewhat fiddle-shaped; its most prominent part is covered by auditory epithelium forming the crista acustica, at each end of which is a half-moon-shaped border of small columnar cells, the planum semilunatum. The cells covering the crista acustica consist of supporting cells and hair cells, and are similar in their arrangement to those in the maculfe of the utricle and saccule. The hairs of the- hair cells are, however, considerably longer, and project as far as the middle of-the ampuUary lumen. In fresh specimens they appear to end free, but in hardened preparations are seen to terminate in a soft, clear, -dome-like structure, the cupola terminalis, which is striated, the striae converg- ing towards its concavity. The nerves form arborisations around the bases of the hair cells. The membranous cochlea (ductus cochlearis or scala media) commences in the recessus cochlearis of the vestibule by a blind extremity (caecum vestibulare), close to which it receives the ductus reuniens of Hensen (vide p. 718). It forms a spirally-arranged canal inside the bony cochlea and ends at the apex of the latter in a second blind extremity, the lagena, or csecum cupulare, which is fixed to the cupola and partly bounds the helicotrema. As already stated (vide p. 717), the mem- brana basilaris extends from the free edge of the lamina spiralis ossea to the outer wall of the cochlea. A second, more delicate membrane, the membrane of Eeissner, or membrana vestibularis, stretches from the thickened periosteum covering the upper surface of the lamina spiralis ossea to the outer cochlear wall, some little distance -TiiANSVERSE Section of Human Semicircular Canal (Riidinger).