946 THE DICxESTIVE SYSTEM. The anterior border of the luasseter can be distinctly felt with the finger, on the outer wall of the vesti):)ule, when the muscle is thrown into a state of contraction. Still further back, the front of the coronoid process, bearing the lower part of the insertion of the temporal muscle, can be easily made out. Whilst the pterygo-maxillary ligament, which corresponds to, and is felt along with, the anterior border of the internal pterygoid, is distinguishable as a pliant ridge when the finger is carried from the front of the coronoid pi'ocess inwards behind the wisdom teeth to the cavity of the mouth. In addition to Stenson's duct, the ducts of numerous small glands which aiT emliedded in the lips and cheeks open into the vestibule. Under normal conditions, as pointed out above, the lips and cheeks lie against the teeth and gums, obliterating the cavity of the vestibule, and helping, with the aid of the tongue, to keep the food between the grinding surfaces of the molar teeth during nuxstication. In facial palsy, however, owing to the paralysis of their muscles, the lij^s and cheeks fall away from the clental arches, and allow the food to pass out from between the teeth and to accumulate in the vestibule. Lips (labia oris, Fig. 639).—These are the two movable folds, covered superficially by skin, and on their deep surface by mucous membrane, which surround the rima oris. Laterally the two meet at the angles of the moutli, and lieyond this are Antrum of Hinhiiiore Palatini srlfinls Platysnia Mylu-liyui.l Fio. 637.—C'oR()N.\L Section through the closed Mouth. The sHt-like character of the vestibule, the maimer iu which the tongue Alls up the luoutli cavity, the close apposition of the teeth, the relations of the roots of the upper molars to the antrum of High- more, the plica sublingualis over the sublingual gland, and the position of the vnnine artery should be noteil. prolonged into the cheeks, with which they are continuous. The upper lip presents on its superficial surface a well-marked vertical groove, the philtrum, l)Ounded by two distinct ridges tlescending from the columella nasi (Fig. 643); inferiorly the groove widens out, and terminates opposite a slight projection— the labial tubercle—on the free edge of the upper lip. This tubercle is particularly well developed in children, and is chiefly responsible for the characteristic curve of the rima oris. The lower is usually longer and more moval)le than the upper lip. In passing from before backwards the following structures are found in the' lips :—(1) The skin, which is closely beset with hairs, small and fine in the child and female, long and stout in the adult male. (2) A layer of fatty superficial fascia continuous with the fascia of the face generally. (3) The orbicularis oris muscle, continuous at its periphery with the various muscles converging towards the mouth. A number of its fibres, or those of the muscles joining it, pass through the super- ficial fascia and are attached to the skin, thus establishing a close connexion between the latter and the muscle. (4) The submucous tissue, which is occupied l)y an almost continuous layer of racemose glands—the labial glands (glanduhe laliiales). These open into the vestibule, and their secretion is said to l)e mucous. (5) The mucous membrane of the mouth, covered by stratified squamous epithelium. Between the orljicularis and mucous membrane, but nearer to the