872 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. of the pancreas; they receive the lymph vessels from the capsule and from the sul)stance of the spleen. Their efferent vessels, accompanied by some of the lymphatics from the left part of the great curvature of the stomach, pass invpards in the lieno-renal ligament and terminate in the coeliac glands. The hepatic glands (lymphoglanduhe hepaticte) are situated in the upper part of the small omentum below the transverse fissure of the liver; they receive the deep lymphatics of the liver which accompany the branches of the portal vein, and many of the superficial Ij^mphatics from the under surface of the liver. Their efferent vessels accompany the hepatic artery and terminate in the coeliac glands. The pancreatic glands (lymphoglandulse pancreaticie) lie along the upper border of the pancreas I sehind the small sac of the peritoneum; they receive the lymphatics which issue from the pancreas and from the diaphragmatic glands, and their efferent vessels terminate in the coeliac glands. The mesenteric glands (lymphogiandulse mesentericse) are numerous (100 to 200); they are scattered between the layers of the mesentery, and are most numerous in that portion of the mesentery which is connected with the jejunum. They vary in size, but the largest are rarely larger than an almond; the smaller glands lie near the intestine, and the larger near the attached border of the mesentery. They receive afferent vessels from the walls of the jejunum and ileum, and from the ascending colon, the ctecum, and the transverse colon. Their elferents terminate in the pre-aortic glands. The ileo-colic glands are situated in the lowest part of the mesentery near the angle between the ileum and the ascending colon. They receive afferent vessels from the lowest part of the ileum, from the ciecum, and from the vermi- form appendix, and their efferent vessels pass, with those of the other mesenteric glands, into the pre-aortic glands. The ileo-colic glands are four or five in number, and occasionally one of them, the appendicular gland, is separated from the rest, and is placed in the base of the mesentery of the vermiform appendix. This gland is of special interest, not only because it receives the lymphatics of the appendix, but also because in the female some of the lymphatics of the right ovary terminate in it. The colic glands which lie in relation with the ascending and descending portions of the colon and in the transverse and iliac mesocolic folds of the peritoneum. They receive the lymphatic vessels which issue from the portion of the gut in their immediate neighbourhood, and their efferent vessels terminate in the lumbar and pre-aortic glands. The rectal glands are a few small glands which lie in the meso-i'ectum; they receive lymphatic vessels from the upper part of the rectum, and their efferent vessels terminate in the lumbar and sacral glands. The coeliac glands (lymphoglandultE coiliacce) surround the coeliac axis, and lie in front of the abdominal aorta above the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. They vary in number, and are of large size; they receive the efferent vessels from the gastric, splenic, pancreatic, and hepatic glands, and their efferent trunks unite with the efferents from the pre-aortic glands, and form with them a single trunk, the common intestinal lymphatic trunk, which terminates in the receptaculum chyli. (2) The parietal glands of the abdomen and pelvis are as follows:— The external iliac glands which lie along the front and sides of the external iliac artery. The lower tln-ee are just above Poupart's ligament, one lying to the outer side of the artery, one in front, and one to the inner side. The inner of these three receives the efferent lymphatics from the deep femoral glands. The afferents of the anterior gland come from the deeper parts of the lower and the middle portions of the abdominal wall in the area corresponding to the distribu- tion of the deep epigastric artery. The afferents of the outer gland which accom- pany the deep circumflex iliac artery, are derived from the iliac fossa and from the deeper portions of the lower part of the lateral wall of the abdomen. The higher external iliac glands receive the efferents of the lower glands, and also otlier vessels from the lateral walls of the pelvis.