FASCIiE AND MUSCLES OF PEEINEUM AND PELVIS. 405 Hesselbach's triangle, bounded by the line of Poupart's ligament Ijelow, by the rectus muscle internally, and by the deep epigastric artery on the mesial side of the internal abdominal ring externally, is the site of one form of inguinal hernia. The spermatic cord passes over the base of the triangle, covered over by the aponeurosis of the obhquus externus. Behind the cord are the fascia transversalis and the conjoint tendon, which may be said to form the floor of the triangle. The posterior muscles of the abdominal wall and false pelvis include the psoas (magnus and parvus) and iliacus, described already (p. 343), and the quadratus lumborum. The quadratus lumborum Hes on the posterior wall of the abdomen external to the psoas, and extends between the iliac crest and the last rib. It arises from the posterior part of the iliac crest, from the ilio-lumbar ligament, and from the transverse processes of the lower lumbat vertebrae. It is inserted above into the lower border of the last rib and the transverse processes of the upper lumbar vertebrae. It is enclosed between the anterior and middle layers of the lumbar aponeurosis (p. 365), and is placed behind the colon, kidney, and psoas muscle, in front of the multifidus spinse and the lumbar transverse processes. Nerve Supply. »■ Tlie nerve supply of all the foregoing muscles except the psoas, cremaster, quadratus lumborum, and iliacus, is derived from the anterior primary divisions of tlie lower six thoracip nerves. The pyramidalis muscle is innervated by tlie last thoracic nerve. The cremaster muscle receives its supply from the genito-crural nerve, whilst the quadratus lumborum is innervated by the first three or four lumbar nerves. The psoas and iliacus muscles are supplied, directly or through the anterior crural nerve, from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves. Actions. Many of the actions of the above muscles have already been given in previous sections. (1) Their chief action is to retract the abdominal walls, and, by compressing the contents of the abdomen, they are powerful agents in vomiting, defascation, micturition, parturition, and laboured expiration. (2) They are also flexors of the spine and pelvis—the muscles of both sides acting together; the spine and pelvis are laterally flexed, when one set of muscles acts alone. (3) The quadratus lumborum is a muscle of inspiration, an extensor of the spine, and a lateral flexor of the spine and pelvis. FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM AND PELVIS. FASCIA OF THE PERINEUM. The superficial fascia of the perineum possesses certain special features. It is continuous with the superficial fascia of the abdominal wall, thigh, and buttock, and is prolonged on to the penis and scrotum. In relation to the penis, it is devoid of fat and consists only of areolar tissue. In relation to the scrotum, it is ' intermingled with involuntary muscular fibres, and constitutes the dartos muscle, which assists in suspending the testicles and corrugating the skin of the scrotum. This fascia also forms a septum for the scrotum, extending upwards and incompletely separating the two testicles and their coverings. In the female the superficial fascia takes a large share in the formation of the mons veneris and labia majora, in which a considerable quantity of fat occurs. The fascia over the posterior part of the perineum fills up the ischio-rectal fossse, in the form of two pads of adipose tissue, on either side of the rectum and anus. Over the tuberosities of the ischium the fat is largely replaced by bands of fibrous tissue closely adherent to the subjacent deep fascia. The fascia in the anterior part of the perineum closely resembles the same fascia in the groin. It is divisible into a superficial fatty and a deeper membranous layer; the former continuous with the same layer in the thigh, and with the fat of the ischio-rectal fossa posteriorly. The deeper membranous layer is attached laterally to the pubic arch, posteriorly to the base of the triangular ligament, and in the middle line to the root of the penis (bulb and corpus spongiosum) by a