448 THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM. in the posterior part of the opposite lateral column of the cord. The term decussation of the pyramids (decussio pyramidum) is applied to the intercrossing of the corresponding bundles of the crossed pyramidal tracts of opposite sides. The direct pyramidal tract is, therefore, the only part of the pyramid which has a place in the anterior column of the cord. The much larger part of this column, termed the anterior basis-bundle, as it is traced up into the medulla is seen to be thrust aside by the decussating bundles of the crossed pyramidal tract. It thus comes to occupy a deep position in the substance of the medulla behind and to the outer side of the pyramid. Lateral Area of the Medulla.—This is tlie district on the surface of the medulla which is included between the two rows of nerve-roots, viz. the hypoglossal roots in front, and the root-bundles of the spinal accessory, the vagus, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerves behind. It presents a very different appearance in its upper and lower parts. In its lower portion it simply appears to be a continuation upwards of the lateral area of the cord; in its upper part a striking oval prominence bulges out on the surface of the medulla, and receives the name of the olivary eminence. The lower part of this district, however, is very far from being an exact counterpart of the lateral column of the cord. The large crossed pyramidal tract is no longer present, seeing that it forms in the medulla the greater part of the pyramid of the opposite side. Another small strand of fibres, viz. the direct cerebellar tract, prolonged iipwards in the lateral column of the cord, gradually leaves this portion of the medulla. This tract lies on the surface, and is frequently visible to the naked eye as a* white streak, which inclines obliquely backwards into the posterior district of the medulla to join its upper part, or in other words the restiform body. The remainder of the fibres of the lateral column of the cord, comprising the lateral basis-bundle and tlie tract of Gowers, are continued upwards in the lateral area of the medulla, and at the lower border of. the olive the majority of these fibres disappear from the surface by dipping into the substance of the medulla under cover of that projection. A certain proportion of the fibres, how- ever, are retained on the surface and travel upwards towards the pons in the interval, which exists between the hinder border of the olive and the roots of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. The olivary eminence (oliva) is a smooth oval projection which bulges out from the upper part of the lateral area of tlie medulla. Its long axis is vertical and is about half an inch long. It marks the position of the subjacent inferior olivary nucleus, a flexuous lamina of gray matter (nucleus olivaris inferior), which is only separated from the surface by a very thin layer of superficial white matter. Posterior Area of the Medulla.—In its lower half this district is bounded behind b}'' the postero-median fissure, and in its upper half by the lateral margin of the medullary part of the floor of the fourth ventricle of the brain. In front it is separated from the lateral area by the row of root-fascicles belonging to the spinal accessory, vagus, and glosso-pharyngeal. nerves. As in the lateral area, we recognise a lower portion and an iipper portion, which appear continuous, but in reality are quite distinct from each other. The lower part of the posterior area corresponds more or less closely with LIGULA Fig. 334.—Diagram of the Decussation of THE Pyramids (modified from vau Geliucliten). NH, Nucleus hypoglossi ; NV, Vago-glcsso- pharyngeal nucleus ; FS, Fa.scicuUis soli- tarius ; NA, Nucleus arabiguus.