453 INTEENAL STEUCTUKE OF THE MEDULLA. rendered evident in transverse sections by the presence of a distinct median line, called the raphe, which occnpies the mesial plane. The raphe is formed by the close intersection of fibres running in different directions and crossing from one side to the other. Each half of the medulla is composed of: (a) strands of white matter; (b) gray matter; and (c) the formatio reticularis. The white matter, as in the cord, is to a large extent disposed on the surface, and the gray matter in the interior; but in the upper open part of the medulla the gray matter comes to the surface on the dorsal a'spect, and is spread out over that area which forms the medullary part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. In the cord the white matter, in the shape of massive longitudinal strands of fibres, forms a thick gray matter, coatmg round the central In the medulla longitudinal seen on the gracile and Funiculus gracilis Gracile nucleus Funiculus cuneatus- Substantia gelatinosa Roland i Spinal root of trigeminal nerve Direct cerebellar tract Crossed pyramidal tract Detached auterior liorn ot gray matter Central canal Decussation of pyramids Gracile nucleus Cuncate nucleus the only massive strands which are surface are the cuneate strands (until they be- come absorbed by the subjacent nuclei), the inferior cerebellar peduncles or restiform bodies and the pyramidal tracts. Elsewhere the coating of white matter is thin, and in certain places is composed chiefly of the super- ficial arcuate fibres. New longi- tudinal strands, however, take shape within the medulla, and two of the most important are placed on either side of the median raphe. The gray matter of the cord, as it is continued upwards into the medulla, becomes greatly modified. A considerable part of it is broken up in the formatio reticularis, whilst the only por- tions which remain as compact masses in direct continuity with the gray matter of the cord are : (1) the thick layer which sur- rounds the central canal, and which, in tlie open part of the medulla, becomes spread out on the floor of the fourth ventricle; and (2) the substantia gelatinosa Eolandi. N"ew masses of gray matter, which are not represented in the cord, and which in some cases appear in isolated clumps, are also added. The chief of these are the gracile and cuneate nuclei, the olivary nuclei, and the arcuate or pyramidal nuclei. The formatio reticularis is only feebly represented in the cord, but in the medulla it forms a very considerable part of its bulk. It is composed of gray matter coarsely broken up by fibres, which traverse it in different directions. In the following detailed account of the internal structure of the medulla, it must be understood that the appearances described are such as are seen when successive transverse sections through the bulb are examined. Decussation of the Pyramids and the Changes produced thereby.—As we pass under the microscope a series of successive transverse sections through the upper end of the cord and the lower end of the medulla, the most striking change which meets the eye is the decussation of the pyramids. The crossed pyramidal Fig, Cuneate nucleus Spinal root of fifth nerve Substantia gelatinosa Rolandi Direct cerebellar tract Crossed pyramidal tract Detached anterior horn of gray matter Decussation of pyramids Anterior basis-bundle B 336.—Two Sections throdgh the Junction between THE Cord and Medulla of the Obang. A at a slightly lower level than B.