238 OSTEOLOGY. also fairly smooth, and is defined inferiorly by au irregular line, sometimes a definite ridge, the edges of which are striated. Into this surface the tendo Acliillis is inserted. The lowest surface is rough and striated, and is confiuent below with the internal and external tubercles; this is overlain by the dense layer of tissue which forms the pad of the heel. Variations.—Tlie peroneal tul)ercle is occasioiiall}' unduly prominent, con.stituting the sub- nialleolar a])(>phYsis of Hyrtl, and cases are recorded of the os calcis articulating with the navicular (Moivstin, H., Bull, de la Soc. Anat. de Paris, 1894, ser. v., t. 8, n. 24, p. 798; and Petrini, Atti del XL Congr. Med. Internaz. Rojna, 1894, vol. ii, "Anat." p. 71). Phitzuer {Morpho- logische Arheifni, vol. vi. p. 245) also records the separation of the sustentaculum tali to form au OS sustentaculi. The Navicular Bone. The navicular or scaphoid bone (os naviculare pedis), of compressed pyriform shape, is placed on the inner side of the foot, between the head of the astragalus posteriorly and the three cuneiform bones, anteriorly. The bone derives its name from the oval or boat- „ shaped hollow on its 0 posterio r surf ace,whiGh 5 rests upon the head 5 of the astragalus. Its J anterior aspect is 1 furnished with a semi- ^ lunar articular area, which is subdivided by two faint ridges into three wedge - shaped facets for articulation from within outwards with the internal, middle, and external cuneiform bones. Superiorly the surface of the bone, convex from side to side, is rough for the attachment of the ligaments on the dorsal aspect of the foot. Inferiorly the bone is irregularly concave, and marked by the attachment of the plantar liga- ments. The external surface is narrow from before backwards, and rounded from above downwards. Usually devoid of any articular surface, it is occasionally provided with a facet, which rests upon a corresponding area on the cuboid. The inner side of the bone projects beyond the general line of the inner border of the foot, so as to form a thick rounded tubercle (tuberositas oss. navicularis), the position of which can be easily determined in the living. To the inner and under surface of this process an extensive portion of the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle is inserted. Variations.—Cases are recorded where the tubercle has foi'uu^d an independent ossicle. The Cuneiform Bones. The cuneiform bones, three in number, are placed between the navicular posteriorly and the. bases of the first, second, and third metatarsal bones anteriorly, for which reason they are frequently named the first, second, and third cuneiforms, or, from their position, internal, middle, and external. More or less wedge-shaped, as their name implies, the internal or first is tTie largest, whilst the middle or second is the smallest of the group. Combined, they form a compact mass, the proximal surface of which, fairly regular in outline, rests on the anterior surface of the navicular; whilst anteriorly they fonn a base of support for the three inner metatarsals, the outline of which is irregular, owing; to the base of the second metatarsal bone being recessed between the inner and outer cuneiforms as it articulates with the distal extremity of the shorter middle cuneiform. The internal cuneiform bone (os cuneiforme primum), the largest of the three, lies on the inner border of the foot between the base of the metatarsal bone of the Middle cuneiform TuBKKoMi i V For head of astkagalu.' TrBEHosri'v Ii Flu. 180.—The Rk!ht Navicular Bone. A, As seen from Behind ; B, As seen from the Front;