THE PLEUEAL MEMBEANES. 927 chamber from the other. The mediastinum is not median in position. Owing to the marked projection of the heart to the left side, and to the position of the descending thoracic aorta on the left side of the mesial plane, the left pleural chamber, although it is deeper than the right, is greatly reduced in width. The two pleural cavities, therefore, are very far from being symmetrical in form. Each pleural cavity is completely lined by a separate serous membrane termed the pleura. The portion of this membrane which clothes the mediastinum or intervening partition forms the lateral boundarj^ of a space termed the mediastinal or interpleural space, within which the parts which build up the mediastinum are placed. THE TWO PLEUEAL MEMBEANES. The pleura or pleural memlDrane of each side not only lines the corresponding pleural cavity, but at the pulmonary root it is prolonged on to the lung so as to give it a complete investment. It is customary, therefore, to recognise a visceral or investing part (pleura visceralis) and a parietal or lining part (pleura parietalis). The inner surface of the membrane [i.e. that surface which is turned towards the interior of the cavity) is coated with squamous epithelium, and presents a smooth, glistening, and polished appearance ; further, it is moistened by a small amount of serous fluid. In conseq;ience of this the surface of the lung covered by visceral pleura can glide on the wall of the cavity, lined as it is by parietal pleura, with the Jeast possible degree of friction. In the pathological condition known as pleurisy the surface of the membrane becomes roughened l)y inflammatory exudation, and the so-called " friction sounds " become evident when the ear is applied to the chest. Visceral Pleura. — The visceral pleura is very thin, and is so firmly l;)ound down to the surface of the lung that it cannot be detached without laceration of the pulmonary substance, and then only in small pieces. It dips into the fissures of the lungs, lines them down to the very bottom, and thus completely separates the dif- ferent lobes of the lungs from each other. The visceral pleura becomes continuous with the mediastinal part of the parietal pleura over the root of the lung, and also through the ligamentum latum pulmonis. Parietal Pleura.—Different names are applied to the parietal pleura as it lines the different parts of the wall of the cavity in which the lung lies. Thus there is the costal pleura, the diaphragmatic pleura, the mediastinal pleura, and the cervical pleura; but it must be borne in mind that these terms are merely used for convenience in description, and the portions of the membrane so designated are all directly continuous with each other. The cervical pleura rises up into the root of the neck, through the superior aperture of the thorax, and forms a dome-shaped roof for the pleural cavity. Its summit or highest point reaches the level of the lower border of the neck of the first rib; but owing to the great obliquity of the first costal arch, this point is placed from one to two inches above the anterior extremity of the first rili, and from a half to one and a half inches above the clavicle. The cervical dome of pleura is supported on the outer side by the scalenus anticus and scalenus medius muscles, whilst the subclavian artery arches over it, and lies in a groove on its inner and anterior aspect a short distance below its summit. At a lower level the innominate and subclavian veins also lie upon its inner and anterior aspects. Fig. 027.—Diagram showing Arrangement of Pleural Sacs, as seen iu transverse section.