THE MUSCLES ON THE BACK OF THE LEG. 359 Anterior tibial- artery -Popliteus fascia (cut) Popliteus muscle Orioiks of soleus the popliteal vessels and tibial nerve between the tibia and fibula; and (3) from the oblique line and middle third of the inner border of the tibia. From this origin the upper muscular fibres are directed downwards to join a tendon placed on the superficial aspect of the muscle, which is inserted into the tendo AchilHs; the lower fibres are inserted directly into the tendo Achillis to within one or two inches of the os calcis. The muscle is concealed by the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and tendo Achillis in nearly its whole extent. It is partially superficial on each side of the gastro- ^ J \ cnemius and tendo Achillis. The muscle covers the tibialis posticus and the 11 If J A VnW<^ ' \ ' iHilim Semimembranosus flexor muscles of the toes as well as the IFm Mm \ (^"t) posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The deep muscles of the back of the leg comprise the popliteus, the long flexors of the toes, and the tibialis posticus. The popliteus is deeply placed be- hind the knee. It arises by a stout tendon from a rough impression in front of a groove on the outer aspect of the external condyle of the femur. This tendon passes between the external semilunar cartilage and the capsule of the knee-joint, and pierces the posterior ligament, from which it takes an ad- ditional origin. A bursa is placed be- neath the tendon which communicates usually with the synovial cavity of the knee-joint. The muscle is inserted (1) into a triangular surface on the back of Peroneus the tibia above the oblique line, and (2) into the fascia over it (the popliteus fascia, derived from the tendon of the Semimembranosus muscle). The pop- liteus is covered at its origin by the capsule of the knee-joint. Posteriorly it is concealed by the gastrocnemius and plantaris muscles, and by the popliteal vessels and tibial nerve. Its lower border corresponds to the point of bifurcation of the popliteal artery and the origin of the soleus muscle. Peroneus LONGus Flexor longus diqitorum Tibialis posticus Flexor lonous hallucis Pcisterior tibial artery and nerve Tlie popliteus minor is a small muscle attached to the popliteal space of the femur and the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. Fig. 264. -The Deep Muscles on the Back of THE Left Leg. The flexor longus digitorum occu- pies both the back of the leg and the sole of the foot. Its origin is from the posterior surface of the tibia in its middle two- fourths, from the fascia over it, and from an intermuscular septa on each side. Its tendon, after passing beneath the internal annular ligament, enters the sole of the foot, and divides into four subordinate tendons, which are inserted into the four outer toes in precisely the same manner as the flexor profundus digitorum in the hand. Each tendon enters the digital sheath of the toe, perforates the tendon of the flexor brevis digitorum, and is inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx. Ligamenta accessoria (longa and brevia) are present as in the hand. Associated with this muscle in the sole of the foot are the lumbricales and accessorius.