908 THE EESPIEATOEY SYSTEM. wards towards the chest. Again, if the finger is placed on the larynx during deglutition, it will be seen that the larynx moves to a very considerable extent. The pharyngeal muscles attached to it, and more especially the stylo-pharyngeal muscles, are chiefly responsible for bringing about these movements. During singing, changes in the position of the larjnix in-dj also be noted, a high note being accompanied by a slight elevation, and a low note by a slight depression of the organ. The position of the larjaix is not the same at all periods of development and growtli. In the fa^tus, shortly before birth, it lies much higher up in the neck. Thus its lower border corresponds to the lower border of the fourth cervical vertebra. Its permanent position is not reached mitil the period of puberty is attained (Symington). This descent of the larynx has been stated to l)e due to the rapid and striking growth of the facial part of the skull which lies above it (Symington). It is very doubtful, however, if the facial growth has any influence in this direction. In the anthropoid ape, in which the face forms a much greater part of the skull than in man, and in which, in the transition from the infantile to the adidt condition, the facial growth is even more striking than in man, the larynx occupies a relatively higher position in the neck. In the early stages of growth all the thoracic viscera undergo a gradual subsidence. The larynx in its descent follows these. Indeed it cannot do otherwise, seeing that the bifurcation of the trachea between infancy and puberty moves downwards more than the depth of one thoracic vertebra. General Construction of the Larynx.—The wall of the larynx is constructed upon a somewhat complicated plan. There is a frame-work composed of several cartilages. These are connected together.at certain points by distinct joints and also by elastic membranes. Two elastic cords, which stretch in an antero-posterior direction from the front to the back wall of iilie larynx, form the ground-work of the true vocal cords. Numerous muscles are likewise present. These operate upon the cartilages of the larynx, and therel)y not only bring about clianges in the relative position of the true vocal cords, but also produce different degrees of tension of these cords. The cavity of the larynx is lined with mucous membrane, under which, in certain localities, are collected masses of mucous glands. CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. There ai'e three single cartilages and three pairs of cartilages entering into the construction of the laryngeal wall. They are named as follows :— , niu • 1 (Arytenoid. Ihyroid. \ ■ i i • ..i ,,. , ,., n • -1 i> • 1 ^-1 ) Cornicula laiTugis, or tlie Smgle cartilages < Cricoid. i'aired cartilages-; C , ■ ■ ° • 1 \ cartilages oi Santorini. Epiglottis. / ,., ^ - I, Cuneiiorm cartilages. Thyroid Cartilage (cartilago thyreoidea).—The thyroid cartilage, the largest of the laryngeal cartilages, is formed of two quadrilateral plates termed the alse, which meet in front at an angle, and liecome fused along the mesial plane. Behind, the al;ie diverge from each other, and enclose a wide angular space which is open behind. The anterior borders of the alte are only fused in their lower parts. Above they are separated by a deep, narrow V-shaped median notch, called the incisura thyroidea. In the adult male the angle formed by the meeting of the anterior borders of tlie two ala', especially in its upper part, is very projecting, and with the margins of the thyroid notch, which lies above, constitutes a marked subcutaneous prominence in the neck, which receives the name of the pomum Adami. The angle which is formed by the iiieetiug of the two ala; of the thyroid cartilage varies to some extent in different individuals of the same sex, and shows marked difl'ereuces in the two sexes and at different j^eriods of life. In the adult male the average angle is said to be 00°; in the adult female it is 120°; whilst in the infant the al?e meet in the form of a gentle curve convex to the front. The posterior border of each ala of the thyroid cartilage is thick and rounded, and is prolonged beyond the superior and inferior borders in the form of two slender cylindrical processes, termed coruua. Tlie superior cornu is longer than the inferior cornu. It is directed upwards, with a slight inclination inwards and backwards, and it ends in a rounded extremity, which is joined to the tip of the great cornu of