730 THE SKIN OK INTEGUMENT. from which delicate fibrils pass between the cells of the rete mucosum, where they become headed, and end in rounded swellings or flattened discs—the tactile discs of Ranvier. The special end organs are of three chief varieties (Fig. 538): («) Corpuscula bulboidea (Krausii), found on the lips, glans penis, etc., and consisting of a connective tissue capsule enclosing a core of elongated and polygonal cells, amongst which the axis-cylinder of the nerve fibril becomes branched and its ramifications end in clubbed extremities. (6) Corpuscula lamellosa (Vateri and Pacini). These are small, oval l:)odies, with a long diameter of 2 to 3 mm., and are found in the subcutaneous tissue attached to the nerve trunks. They are very numerous on the digital nerves, but are present in many other situations, e.g. in the mesentery. Each possesses a sheath, consisting of a number of concenti'ically-arranged connective tissue lamelhe, covered by endothelium continuous with the perineurium. The central part of each corpuscle consists of a soft, almost homogeneous core. Tho nerve fibre passes along the centre of the stalk of the corpuscle, and, I'each- iug the core, loses its med- ullary sheath, whilst its axis-cylinder passes into the core and becomes branched near its distal extremity, the brandies ending in bulbous enlarge- ments, (c) Corpuscula tactus (Meissneri). These are very numerous on the flexor aspect of the hands and feet, and especially so in the skin over the terminal phalanges; but they also exist in other parts of the body. They occupy certain of the papilke of the corium, and are oval in shape, their long diameter in the liand being from 110/a to 160They consist of a connective tissue capsule, which sends imperfect septa into the interior 5f the corpuscle. One or two nerve fibres perforate the capsule, either directly or after taking a spiral course around it; and losing, as a general rule, their medullary sheath, their axis-cylinders break up into fibrils, which end in globular or discoid enlargements. Ruftiui has desciilu'd a sjjfcial variety of terminal corpuscle in the human finger. Tliey ai'e termed Ruffini's endings, and are situated either at the junction of the coriiuu and suhcutaneous tissue, or are endjedded in tlie latter. Of an oval slia])e, they consist of a connective capsule witliin wliicli the axis cylinder divides into varicose filaments, and these terminate in small knobs. APPKNDAdES OF THE SkIN. The appendages of the skin comprise the nails, the hairs, the sebaceous and the sudoriparous or sweat glands. Nails.—The nails or ungues (Figs. 539, 540) are epidermal structures, and, in man, represent the hoofs and claws of the lower animals. Tlie root of the nail, or radix unguis, is hidden from view and embedded in a fold of skin ; the body (corpus unguis) or uncovered part, rests on the corium and ends in a free edge or uiargo liber. The greater part of the lateral margins is overlapped by a duplicature of skin, termed the nail-wall or vallum unguis. The nails are pink in colour, with the exception of a small semilunar area near the root, which is more opaque than the rest and is named the lunula. The luuulae diminish in size from the thuml) towards the little finger, while the thickness of the nail diminishes towards its root and lateral margins. Tiie corium under the nail is highly vascular and sensitive,