THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. 406 median raphe continuous further forwards with the septum ^of the scrotum mentioned above. Anteriorly the fascia is continued over the spermatic cords to the anterior abdominal wall. The importance of this fascia lies in relation to the extravasation of urine from a rupture of the urethra. By the fascial attachments the fluid is prevented from passing backwards into the iscliio-rectal fossa, or laterally into the thigh. It is directed forwards into relation with the scrotum and penis, and along the spermatic cord to the anterior abdominal wall. The septum of the scrotum being incomplete, fluid extravasated on one side can pass across the middle line to the opposite half of the perineum and scrotum. The deep fascia of the perineum is practically non-existent, except in the form of delicate aponeuroses of the muscles. THE MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. The perineal muscles are naturally separated into a superficial and a deep set by the triangular ligament. Superficially are the sphincter ani externus, transversus perinei superficialis, bulbo-cavernosus, and ischio-cavernosus ; beneath the triangular ligament is the compressor urethrse. Sphincter ani Externus.—This muscle is fusiform in outhne, flattened, and obliquely placed around the anus and anal canal. It can be separated into three Perineal brancli, foui tli sacial nerve Anterior .sacro-coccygeal nerve Fia. 300.—The Muscles and Nerves ok the Male Perineum. layers : viz. subcutaneous, superficial, and deep. (1) The most superficial lamina consists of subcutaneous fibres decussating behind and in front of the anus, Init without bony attachments. (2) The sphincter ani superficialis constitutes the main portion of the muscle. It is attached posteriorly to the coccyx, and in front of the anus reaches the central point of the perineum. (3) The deep fibres of the muscle form for the most part a complete sphincter for the anal canal. They are continuous with the fibres of the levator ani; they encircle the anal canal, and blend anteriorly with the central point of the perineum and the transversus perinei. The muscle surrounds the anus, covered only by the skin, superficial fascia, and