959 SALIVARY GLANDS. vallate papillte alone are serous. The submaxillary and the apical gland of the tongue are 'mixed, the serous alveoli being the more numerous ; whilst the sublingual, labial, buccal, and all other glands of the mouth, tongue, and palate are said to be nmmus. Salivary Glands. This term is generally understood to include only the three large masses of glandular tissue found on each side of the face—namely, the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual glands. But, as previously pointed out, numerous other small glands Inteniul jugiilai' vein Hypoglossal nerve Spinal accessory nerve Bigastric muscle Stylohyoid Glosso- phaiyngeal nerve Parotid gland Teniporo- niaxillary vein External carotul artery Styloglossus^ Ascending palatine artery Internal pterygoid Epiglottis--—t Internal earotid artery Pneumogastric nerve Syni pathetic Ascending pharyngeal artery Odontoid nrnco.ss Pharyngeal portion. uf tongue Post-pharjligeal lymphatic gland Sn]ierior ninstrictur muscle Posterior palatine arch ■—lonsil I'harvngo-epiglottic "fold ■ Anterior palatine arch Circunivallatc iipilla- Raphe of tongue Conical papillai Fungitbrin papilla Buccinator Fuiigitorin papiU; Fig. 646.—Horizontal Section thuough Mouth and Pharynx at the Level of the Tonsils. The stylopharyugeus, which is shown immediately to the inner side of the external carotid artery, and the prevertebral muscle.s, are not indicated by reference lines. of a similar nature are found in the lips, cheeks, palate, tongue, etc. These have already been sufficiently described, and require no further mention. Parotid Gland (glandula parotis).—This, the largest of the salivary glands, is a distinctly lolnilated- mass of a yellowish or light reddish-brown colour, which is placed in a deep recess (the par(jtid recess) at the side of the head, l)elow and in front of the ear (Fig. G-iv). It extends up to the zygoma, down to the angle of the jaw or ^ven to a lower level, and backwards to the sterno-mastoid muscle. Internally it lies on the styloid process, and anteriorly its facial process is continued for a variable distance over the surface of the masseter. When tlie gland is carefully removed without disturbing the surrounding parts, the recess which it occupies is seen to be a considerable space, between the ramus of the jaw in front and the sterno-mastoid muscle behind, with a floor formed of two sloping walls, an anterior and a posterior, which meet at an angle corresponding pretty