933 THE LUNGS. The anterior mediastinum is that part of the interpleural space which lies between the pericardium behind and the sternum in front. In its upper part this space can hardly l)e said to exist, seeing that here the two pleural sacs come into contact with each other on the anterior aspect of the pericardium; but below the level of the sternal ends of the fourth costal cartilages the left pleura falls short of the right pleura, and an interval is apparent. The only contents to be noticed iii the anterior mediastinum are a few lymphatic glands and some areolar tissue, in which ramify some lymphatic vessels, and some minute twigs from the internal mammary artery. The posterior mediastinum is that part of the interpleural space which is situated behind the pericardium. It may be regarded as the continuation down- wards of the posterior part of the superior mediastinum, and many of the structures in the one are prolonged downwards into the other. The arbitrary upper limit of the posterior mediastinum is the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra. In front it is bounded ])y the pericardium, except in its lowest portion, where the anterior wall is formed Ijy the back of the diaphragm. Behind it is limited by the bodies of the eight lower dorsal vertebrae, and on each side by the mediastinal pleura. It contains the descending thoracic aorta, the azygos veins, the thoracic duct and the oesophagus, with the two pneumogastric nerves. Structure of the Pleura.—Tlie pleura on each side is a closed sac, and, like other serous membranes, it is attached by its outer surface to the wall of the cavity which it lines and to the surface of the viscus.which it covers. It is composed of, a thin connec- tive-tissue stratum in which bundles of fibres cross each other in various directions, and intermixed with which there is a considerable quantity of elastic tissue. On the inner surface of this there is a continuous coating of thin epithelial cells placed edge to edge. The pleura so formed is attached to the parts it lines and invests by a small amount of areolar tissue which forms a subserous layer. In the case of the visceral pleura the sub- serous tissue is continuous with the areolar tissue in the substance of the lung, and this accounts for the tight manner in which it is bound down. The pleura is plentifully supplied with blood. This is conveyed to it by minute twigs from the intercostal arteries, the internal mammary artery, and the i^ronchial arteries. Lymphatic vessels also are particularly abundant in the pleura and in the subserous layer, and it is by these that excess of fluid is conveyed from its cavity. Many lymphatic vessels communicate directly with the cavity by means of excessively minute orifices termed stomata. Dybkowsky has shown that the lymphatics and stomata of the pleura are not equally distributed throughout the membrane. Over the ribs and on the mediastinal pleura they are absent. THE LUNGS. When healthy and sound each lung lies free within the corresponding pleural chamber, and is only attached by its root and the ligamentum latum pulmonis. It is not common, however, to meet with a perfectly healthy lung. Adhesions between the visceral and parietal layers of pleura, due to pleurisy, are generally present. Like the cavities in which they are placed, the two lungs are not precisely alike.. The right lung is slightly larger than the left, in the proportion of about 11 to 10. The right lung is also shorter and wider than the left lung. This difference is due to the great bulk of the right lobe of the liver, which elevates the right cupola of the diaphragm to a higher level than the left cupola, and likewise to the heart and pericardium projecting more to the left than to the right, and thus diminishing the width of the left lung. The lung is light, soft, and spongy in texture; when pressed between the finger and thumb it crepitates, and when placed in water it floats. The elasticity of the pulmonary tissue is very remarkable. A striking demonstration of this is afforded when the thoracic cavity is opened, and the atmospheric pressure acting upon the interior and exterior of the lung is eqiialised. Immediately the organ collapses to about one-third of its original bulk, and it becomes impossible in such a specimen to study its proper form and dimensions. The surface of the adult lung presents a mottled appearance. The ground