257 ARTICULATION OF ATLAS WITH AXIS. Thus lateral flexion is permitted in the lumbar, but not in the cervical or dorsal regions. Again, in the lumbar region rotation does not occur, owing to the shape of the articular processes, while it is possible in the dorsal region. In the cervical region the shape and position of the articular surfaces prevent the occurrence both of lateral flexion and of rotation as isolated move- ments, but a combination of these two movements may take place, Avhereby rotatory movement in an oblique median axis results. Finally, in the lumbar region, by combining the four forms of flexion, viz. forward, backward, and lateral, a certain amount of circumduction is possible. Articulation of Atlas with Axis. Between these two vertebrae three diarthroses occur. Two of them are situated laterally in relation to the articular processes, and are called arthrodial diarthroses, because of the flattened nature of the articulating surfaces. The third articulation is mesial in position. It is found between the smooth anterior surface of the odontoid process of the axis and the articular facet on the posterior aspect of the anterior arch of the atlas. This joint is a rotatory diarthrosis. Ligaments.—Each of the joints is furnished with a capsular ligament whereby the joint cavity is circumscribed. In the case of the lateral articulations, each capsular ligament presents a distinct band, named the accessory ligament, which is Membrana tectoria Basi-occipital bone Anterior occipito-atloid ligament Ligameutum apicis dentis Synovial cavity. Odontoid process Anterior arch of atlas Transverse ligament of atlas Inferior crus of crucial ligament Rudimentary intervertebral disc Body of axis Superior crus of crucial ligament Synovial cavity Posterior occipito-atloid ligament Posterior common ligament Posterior arch of atlas ^pme of axis Fig. 202.—Mesial Section through the Occipito-atloid and Atlo-axoid Joints. < situated within the neural canal (Fig. 203), and passes downwards and inwards from the lateral mass of the atlas to the superior aspect of the body of the axis. The following additional ligaments constitute the leading bonds of union:— The anterior atlo-axoid ligament (Fig. 202) is a membranous structure which is thin laterally, but strong mesially where it is thickened by a prolongation of the anterior common ligament. It extends from the anterior arch of the atlas to the front of the body of the axis. The posterior atlo-axoid ligament (Fig. 202) occupies the position which is elsewhere taken by the ligamenta subflava. It extends from the posterior arch of the atlas to the upper border of the neural arch of the axis. The transverse ligament of the atlas (lig. transversum atlantis, Figs. 202 and 203) is a strong band, placed transversely, which arches backwards behind the neck of the odontoid process of the axis. By its extremities it is attached to the tubercle on the inner aspect of each lateral mass of the atlas. A thin plate of fibro-cartilage is developed in its central part. Synovial membrane lines each of the three capsular Ligaments, and in addition a synovial sac is developed between the odontoid process and the transverse ligament. This is more extensive than the synovial cavity between the odontoid process and the atlas. 17