116 OSTEOLOGY. Fenestra ovalis cut across Fenestra rotunda cut across in a narrow curved fissure overlumg by a sharp scale of bone. In this is lodged the ductus endolynipliaticus. The ridge above it corresponds to the upper half of the posterior semicircular canal. Oonnexions.—Tlie temporal bone articulates witli the malar, Bplieuoid, parietal, and occipital bones, and l^y a movable joint with the inferior maxilla. Occasionally the temporal articulates with the frontal, as hajipens normally in the anthropoid apes; although the region of the pterion is characterised by an X-like form in the lower races of man tliere is no evidence tliat the occurrence of a fronto-squamosal suture is more frequent in the lower than the liigher races, its occurrence being due to the manner of fusion of tlie so-called epipteric ossicles witli tlie surrounding Ijones. Architecture.—The temporal bone is re- markahle fur the liardness and density of its ]»etrous jmrt, wherein is lodged the osseous labyrinth which contains tlie delicate organs associated with the senses of hearing and equi- libration. Tlie middle ear or tympanum is a cavity which contains the small auditory ossicles and is separated from tlie external auditory meatus hj the membrana tympani. In front it communicates with the pharynx by the Eustachian tube ; behind, it Vestibule opens into the mastoid antrum and Aquap(]uctus^Fallo]iii mastoid air-cells by the aditus ad antrum. Siqieriorly, it is separated from the middle cranial fossa by a thin plate of bone called the tegmen tympani. Infe.riorly, its floor is formed in jiart by the roof of the jugular fossa and the carotid canal. Internally, it is related to the structures which form the inner ear, notably the coclilea and vestibule, in front of which it is separated by a thin plate ot bone from the carotid canal. Curving over the cavity of the tympanum is the aquteductus Fallopii, the thin walls of which are occasionally deficieiit. These details will be further dealt with in the section devoted to the Organs of Sense. Variations. — The occurrence of a deficiency in the floor of the external auditory meatus is not uncommon in the adult. It is met witl commonly in the child till about the age of five, and is due to incomplete ossification of the tympanic plate. The line of the petro-squamosal suture is occasionally grooved for the lodgment of a sinus (petro- squamosal) ; sometimes the posterior end of this is continuous Avitli canal which jiierces the superior border of the bone and opens into tli lateral sinus. Anteriorly the groove may pass into a canal which pierces the root of the zygoma and appears externally alwve the external extremity of the Glaserian fissure. The.se are the remains of channels through which the blood passed in tlie foetal condition (see ante). Syming- ton has described a case in which the squamous part was distinct and separate from the rest of the temporal bone in an adult; whilst Hyrtl has observed the division of the temporal S(piama into two by a transverse suture. External auilitory meatus Osseous Eustachian canal Superior opening of the canal for the tym- panic branch of glosso-pharyngeal Fig. 88 Veutical Transverse Section through Left Temporal Bone (Anterior Half of Section). External semicircular cana Superior semicircular canal Vestibule into openings of semicircular can.als Internal auditory meatus Fenestra ovalis cut across Fenestra rotunda cut across Opening leading into mastoid antrum. Aqua-ductus Fallopii Canalis stapedii Tympanum External auditory meatus Fig. 89 Vertical Transverse Section through Left Temporal Bone (Posterior Half of Section). Ossification,—The petro- mastoid portion of the bone is developed by the deposition of earthy matter in the cartil- laginous ear capsule and the perichondrium lining the labyrinth. The squamous and tympanic parts are ossified in membrane. Ossification cotnmeuces in the ear capsule in the fifth month, and proceeds so rapidly