OSTEOLOGY. the great trocliantcr. The nutrient arteries for the shaft pierce the Ixnu' (in or near tlie linea aspera. Botli liack and fnnit of the lower end of 'the shaft display tlie openings of niunerous vascular canals, and the Horn- of tlie intercondylic notch is also similarly pierced. Connexions.—The femur articulates with the os innoniinatum above and the tihiaand jjatella lielow. The external surface of the great trochanter determines the point of greatest hip widtli in the male, being covered only hy the skin and superficial fascia and tlie aponeurotic insertion of the gluteus maxiiiius. In the erect position the tip of the trochanter corre.sponds to the level of the centre of the hip joint. When the thigh is flexed the trochanter major sinks under cover of the anterior fibres of the gluteus maximus. In women the hip width is usually greatest at some little distance below the trochanter, due to the accumulation of fat in this region. The shaft of the bone is surrounded on all sides hy muscles. Its forward curve, liowever, is account- able to some extent for the fulness of the front of the thigli. The exposed surfaces of the condyles determine to a large extent the form of the knee. In flexion tlie articular edges can easily be recognised on either side of and below the patella. Architecture.—The shaft has a medullary cavity which reaches as high as the root of the small ti'oclianter. Inferiorly it extends to within 85 inches of the lower articular surface. In the njjper half the outer compact wall is very thick, but below the middle of the shaft it gradually thins until it reaches the condyles inferiorly, over which it passes as a tliin, hardly definable external layer. Above, it is especially thick along the line of the linea asjiera, and here the large nutrient canal may be seen passing obliquely upwards in the substance of the dense bone for the space of two inches. In the upper end of the shaft the osseous lamelhe springing from the sides of the medullary cavity arch inwards to\\'ards the centre, intersecting each other in a manner comparable to tlie tracery of a Gothic window. The lower wall of the neck is thick below, near tlie trochanter minor, but thins rapidly befoi'e it reaches the head. From this aspect of the neck there spring a series of oblique lamelhe which pass upwards and inwards, spreading in fan-shaped inanner into the under surface of the head. These are intersected above by lamelhe which arch inwards from the outer side of the shaft below the great trochanter, as well as from the under surface of the thin but compact outer shell of the upper surface of the neck, the whole forming a bracket-like (U'rangement which assists materially in adding to the strength of the neck. Further support is given by the addition of a spur of dense bone which springs from the inner surface of the under side of the neck, just in front of and above the trochanter minor : this is called the calcar femorale. From it stout lamelhe having a vertical direction arise. The sjiongy tissue of the head and great trochanter is finely reticulated, that of the lower part of the neck and upper ])art of the .shaft being more ojien in its texture. Passing vertically downwards through this tissue there is a vascular canal, the orifice of which opens externally on the floor of the digital fo.ssa. The spongy tissue of the lower j^art of the shaft is more delicate and uniform in its ari-angenient, disjdaying a more or less parallel striation in a longitudinal direction. Subjacent to the articular surface the tissue is rendered more compact by the addition of lamella; disposed in curves in harmony with the external aspect of the bone. Variations.—Alisence of the jiit on the head of the femur for the attachment of the liganientum teres has been recorded. This corresponds with the condition met M'ith in the orang. Not infrequently there is an extension of the articular surface of the head on to the fore and upper aspect of the neck ; this is a " j)ressure facet" caused by the contact of the iliac jjortion of the acetabular margin with the neck of the Ijone, when the liml) is maintained for long periods in the flexed 2)osition, as in tailors, and also in those races who liabitually squat (Lane, Journ. Anat. and Physiol., vol. xxii. p. 606). The occurrence of a trochanter tei f ius lias l)eeii already referred to. Its presence is not con- fined to individuals of powerful physique, but may occur in those of slender build, so far suggesting that it is not to be regarded merely as an indication of excessive mu.scnlar develop- ment. The observations of Dixon (Journ. Anat. and Physiol., vol. xxx. ji. 502), wlio noted the occurrence of a separate epiphysis in three cases in connexion with it, seem to jioint to its possessing some morphological significance. Occasionally the gluteal ridge may be replaced by a liollow, tlie fo.-^.si liypotrochanterica, or in some cases the two may co-exist. The angle of the neck is more open in the child than in the adult, and tends to be less when the femoral length is short and the pelvic width great—conditions which particularly ai:)pertain to the female. There is no evidence to show that after growth is completed any alteration takes place in the angle with advancing years (Huni])lirv). The curvature of the shaft may undergo considerable variations, and the appearance of the posterior surface of the bone may be modified by an absence of the linea aspera, a condition resembling that seen in apes ; or by an unusual elevation of tlie bone wliich supports the ridge (fevinr a pilastre), jiroduced, as Manonvrier has suggested, by tlie excessive development of the muscles here attached. Under the term ^^jdatymerit;," Manouvrier describes an antero-postei'ior compression of the u])2)er jiart of the shaft, fre(piently met with in tlie femora of jireliisturic races. Ossification.—Tbc shaft begins to ossify early in the .second month of fa'tal life, and at birth displays eiilargcmeuts at both ends, which are capped with cartilage. If the inferior cartilaginous end be sliced away, a small ossific nucleus for the inferior epiphysis will usual]}' be seen. This, as a rule, makes its appearance towards the latter end of the ninth niontli of foetal life, aiul is of service from a medico-legal standpoint in detcnniiiing the age of the