THE PHAEYNX AND STOMATOD^UM. 33 The fore-gut, a relatively wide space, continuous posteriorly with the mid-gut, is thus at first closed anteriorly by the bucco-pharyngeal membrane, which separates it from the stomatodfeum. About the fifteenth day, in the human embryo, the bucco- pharyngeal membrane disappears, the fore-gut is then thrown into continuity with the stomatodseal space, and the anterior opening of the alimentary canal is formed. As development proceeds the cavity of the fore-gut is gradually compressed dorso-ventrally, imtil its transverse section assumes a triangular outline; but in the earliest stages there are no indications of the various organs which are ulti- mately developed from its walls. After a short interval, however, two elevations 29 28 Fig. 27.—Furthek Development of the Alimentary Canal, as seen in a Human Embryo ABOUT Five Weeks Old (Diagrammatic). The tongue is well formed, the trachea and oesophagus are separated, the bronchi the duodenal curve is well formed, and the caecum has appeared in the cloaca is partially separated into genito-urinary and rectal portions. have commenced to branch ; loop of the mid-gut. The 1. Hind-brain. 2. Mouth. 3. Tongue. 4. Pericardium. 5. Pharynx. 6. Heart. 7. Trachea. 8. (Esophagus. 9. Lung. 10. Liver. 11. Bile duct. 12. Stomach. 13. Pancreas. 14. Small intestine. 15. Caecum. 16. Intestinal loop. 17. Large intestine. 18. Notochord. 19. Vertebra. 20. Spinal cord. 21. Bladder. 22. Wolffian duct. 23. Kidney. 24. Ureter. 25. Eectum. 26. Proctodseum. 27. Allantoic diverticulum. 28. Vitello-intestinal duct. 29. Fore-brain. 30. Mid-brain. appear in its ventral wall. The anterior of these is a rounded elevation, termed the tuberculum impar. It is situated directly behind the lower ends of two raised bars or arches, called the mandibular arches, which are growing down into the floor of the fore-gut from the anterior parts of its lateral walls. The tuberculum impar is the rudiment of the anterior two-thirds of the tongue, which is thus formed in the floor of the entodermal portion of the alimentary canal. The more posterior elevation, termed the furcula, is a curved ridge, which bounds a mesial longitudinal depression. It is separated from the lateral walls of the fore-gut and from the tuberculum impar by a groove, the sinus arcuatus. The anterior part of the furcula is transformed into the epiglottis and the margins of the upper aperture of the larynx ; the median depression becomes the cavity of the larynx and of the trachea. Still more posteriorly, behind the region of the furcula, a dilatation of the fore-gut 3