124 OSTEOLOGY. reached that the cancellous tissue within this part of the bone becomes absorbed to form the sphenoidal sinuses. The sphenoidal turbinals (conchse sphenoidales), or bones of Bertin, best studied in childhood, are formed by the fusion of four distinct ossicles (Cleland), the centres for which appear in the later months of utero-gestation. Each bone consist of a hollow three- sided pyramid, the apex of which is in contact with the fore part of the vaginal process of the internal pterygoid, whilst the base fits on to tlie posterior surface of the lateral mass of the ethmoid. The inferior surface of each forms the roof of the corresponding nasal fossa and completes the formation of the spheno-palatine foramen, whilst the external aspect is united with the palate bone and forms the inner wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa and occasionally constitutes a part of the orbital wall posterior to the os planum of the ethmoid. The superior surface of the sphenoidal turbinal is applied to the fore and under surface of the body of the pre-sphenoid on either side of the rostrum. It is by the absorption of this wall that the sphenoidal sinuses are ultimately opened up. The base of the pyramid forms the aperture through which each of these sinuses opens into the nasal fossae in the adult. Owing to their firm ankylosis with the surrounding bones, these ossicles are merely represented in the adult disarticulated skull by the irregular frag- ments adherent to the separated borders of the ethmoid, palate, and sphenoid bones. The Ethmoid Bone. The ethmoid bone (os etlimoidale) lies in front of the sphenoid, and occupies the interval between the orbital plates of the frontal, thus entering into the forma- tion of the anterior cranial fossa as well as the inner walls of the orbits and the roof and inner and outer walls of the nasal fosstie. The bone, which is exti-emely light, consists of two cellular parts—the lateral masses, which are united superiorly to a mesial vertical plate by a thin horizontal lamina which, from its perforated condition, is called the cribriform plate. The study of this bone will be nnich facilitated by cutting through the cribriform plate on one side of the vertical plate, thus removing the lateral mass of one side and exposing more fully the central perpendicidar lamina. The vertical plate (lamina perpendicnlaris), of irregular pentagonal shape, forms the upper part of the nasal septum. Its superior border projects above the level of the cribriform plate so as to form a crest, which is much elevated an- teriorly, where it terminates in a buUate process called the crista galli, the upper edge of which is sharp and pointed, and affords attachment to the falx cerebri. In front of this process there is a gioove which separates the alar processes (pro- cessus alares) which project from the crista galli on either side, liy articulation with the frontal bone this groove is conA erted into a canal, the foramen caecum; this, however, is not always blind, but frequently transmits a vein to the roof of the nose. The posterior margin of the vertical plate is thin, and articulates with the crest of the sphenoid. The posterior inferior border in the adult is ankylosed with the vomer; and the anterior inferior edge, which is usuall}' thicker than the others, xniites with the cartilaginous nasal septum. The anterior sitperior border articulates with the nasal spine of the frontal bone and with the median crest formed by the union of the two nasal bones. The vertical plate, which is usually deflected to one or other side, has generally smooth surfaces, except above, where they are channelled by