MUSCLES OF THE ARM. 319 its natural separation into two parts, which represent the persistent middle and inferior^elements. The couuiionest variety is one in which the more superficial (inferior) part of the muscle extends further down the arm than usual, so as to he in- serted into the internal intermuscular septum, , ,| j ^ | S/^iij/MH/j^f/■ Trapezhis or even into the internal condyle of the ' ' humerus. A third slip (coraco-brachialis superior or brevis, rotator humeri) may more rarely he present, forming a sliort muscle aris- , ' '^-<^/i/f/M/f/W \ C ing from the root of tlie coracoid process, and inserted into the inner side of the humerus just below the capsule of tlie shoulder joint. Jf/, / ''4 —Deltoid 'Infraspinatus Teres major -Latissimus DORSI V 1 "Brachialis anticus Triceps - External intermuscular septum — Brachio-radialis -Ulnar nerve Extensor carpi radialis LONGIOR Extensor carpi radialis EREVIOR The biceps (m. biceps brachii) is the large superficial muscle which lies on the front of the upper arra. It arises by two heads. (1) The sliort head (caput breve) is attached in common with the coraco-brachialis to the tip of the cora- coid process of the scapula. . This head forms a separate fleshy belly, which is united to the long head by an invest- ment of the deep fascia. (2) The long head (caput longum) arises by a round tendon from the supra-glenoid impres- sion at the root of the coracoid process and from the glenoid ligament on either side. Its tendon traverses the cavity of the shoulder joint, and emerging from the capsule (invested by a prolongation of the synovial membrane), it occupies the bicipital groove of the humerus, covered by a fascial prolongation of the tendon of the pectoralis major. In the upper arm it forms a fleshy belly united to that derived from the short head by an envelope of deep fascia. The insertion of the muscle is like- .wise twofold. (1) The two bellies be- come connected with a strong tendon, attached deeply in the hollow of the elbow to the rough posterior portion of the bicipital tubercle of the radius. A bursa separates the tendon from the anterior portion of the tubercle. (2) From the inner and anterior part of the tendon, and partly in continuity with the fleshy fibres of the muscle, a strong membranous hand (the semilunar or bicipital fascia) extends downwards and inwards over the hollow of the elbow to join the deep fascia covering the origins of the flexor and pronator muscles of the forearm. Except at its origin and insertion the biceps muscle is placed superficially on the front of the arm, concealing the brachialis anticus and musculo-cutaneous nerve. The brachial artery and median nerve lie along its inner border. The origin of the muscle is deeply placed under cover of the deltoid and pectoralis major. The tendon of insertion in the hollow of the elbow lies beneath the end of the brachial and the beginning of the radial artery. Deep fascia of forearm Extensor communis dioitorcm Extensor carpi ulnaris Extensor ossis mktacarpi pollicis Extensor brevis pollicis -Extensor minimi digiti Tendons of extensors of "CARPUS -Posterior annular ligament " Extensor longus pollicis Extensor indicis Fig. 237.—The Muscles on the Back of the Arm, Pohearm, and Hand.