THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1064 is to say, the " uncovered area " of tlie right lobe extends down over tlu; inii)ressioii tor a little way. This inij)ressiou is very deej), and aeconiniodates nearly the whole thickness of the kidney. Ill many hardened S2)eciinens it would a])pear to belong more to the jiosterior part of the parietal than to the inferior or visceral surface. The inferior margin of the liver, as alreatly pointed out, separates the paiietal from the visceral surface. Behind, it is indistinctly marked and corresponds to the lower edge of the posterior area, or l)ack, of the parietal surface: it is in con- tact with the right kidney, and runs along the course of the eleventh ril). At the righ t side it is stout but distinct, and usually corresponds to, or projects a little wa}' l)elow, the lower border of the thoracic frainework. In front (margo anterior) it is thin and sharp, and crosses the anterior al)douiinal wall ol)liquely, generally corre- sponding to a line drawn from a point half an inch (12 mm.) below the margin of the ril IS (tip of tenth costal cartilage) on the right side to a point an inch l)elow the nipple on the left, and extending down in the middle line to a point half-way tietween the gladiolus and the umbilicus. This portion of the lower liorder usually, but not invariably, presents one or two notches. The umbilical notch (incisura umbilicalis), by much the more constant of the two (Fig. 715), is situated at the anterior end of the uml)ilical fissure, and corresponds to the lower part of the attachment of the falciform ligament. It is usually placed from one to two inches (2-5 to 5-0 cm.) to the right of the middle line. The second notch, less frequently present, corresponds to the fundus of the gall-l)ladder, and may be called the notch of the gall-bladder (incisura vesicte felle?e). At its left extremity tlie inferior margin passes backwards around the edge of the left lobe, and ends at the oesophageal groove on its back. Fissures of the Liver.—Five fissures or fosste are usually described in con- nexion with the liver; these are: (1) the umliilical fissure, (2) the fissure of the dttctus venosus ; (3) the portal fissure; (4) the fissure, or fossa, of the gall-1 iladder; and (5) the fissure, or fossa, of the vena cava. Taken together, the five fissures are arranged Somewhat in the form of the letter A (Fig. 716); the two lower divisions of the diverging limbs being formed by the umbilical fissure and the fissure of the gall-bladder respectively, and the cross-piece l)y the portal fissure—all of which are placed on the inferior or visceral surface. The two upper divisions of the limbs are represented by the fissure of the ductus venosus and that of the vena cava, which meet above and are both placed on the back or posterior area of the parietal surface. The latter of these two— namely, the fissure of the cava, represented by the right upper division of the A— does not join the cross-piece (the portal fissure), but is separated from it lielow by a narrow ridge of liver substance—the caudate lobe or process (Fig. 716). (1) The umbilical fissure (fossa vente uml)ilicalis) is a deep crevice-like fissure, situated on the visceral surface between the adjacent portions of the quadrate and left lobes. At its bottom is seen a stout fibrous band, the round ligament—the remains of the umbilical vein of the foetus. The fissure leads from the umbilical notch at the inferior border of the liver to the left extremity of the portal fissure (Fig. 716), and is very often crossed by a pons hepatis—a band of liver substance ■—which may even extend along the whole length of the fissure, hiding the round ligament completely from view. (2) The fissure of the ductus venosus (fossa ductus venosi) lies on the liack of the parietal surface of the liver and separates the Spigelian from the left lobe (Fig. 716). It joins the portal fissure lielow, opposite the umbilical fissure; and above, it meets the fissure of the vena cava. On separating its sides there is found at its bottom a filirous liand, usually much thinner than the round ligament: this is the remains of the ductus venosus of the fa'tus. The umbilical fissure and the fissure of the ductus venosus taken together con- stitute the longitudinal fissure of the liver (fossa longitudinalis sinistra), which separates the right from the left lobe on both the inferior and posterior aspects. It will be observed that all other fissures and all other lobes (except the left) lie to the right of the longitudinal fissure, and therefore are situated on the right lobe. (o) The portal or transverse fissure (porta hepatis) when examined in the un- hardened liver appears as a wide depression, Ijounded by })rominent lips, which runs