896 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. and post-axial veins in the region of the elbow, and tlie connexion of the anastomosing channels, is brought about by newly-formed vessels of secondary character. The distal arch in the lower extremity and the tributaries connected M'ith it remain in the adult as the dorsal venous arcli of the foot and the digital veins. The post-axial vein becomes the external sajihenous vein, which was originally continued upwards as the sciatic vein to the internal iliac jjortion of the cardinal vein ; its connexion with the jjopliteal vein, and its more occasional connexion with the internal saphenous vein, Ijeing brought about by the formation of secondary anastomoses. The pre-axial vein of the lower limb becomes the long saphenous vein, which is continued upwards to the cardinal portion of the left common iliac vein as the ujjper jmrt of the femoral and the external iliac veins. The venae comites of the arteries in both the upper and lower extremities are secondarily developed vessels which become connected with the upper portions of the pre-axial venous trunks. ABNORMALITIES OR VARIATIONS OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. Abnormalities are of special interest to tlie anatomist because of their morphological signih- cance, and tlie vascular system is, perhaps more than any other, rich in such abnormalities, many of which are of great practical imj^ortance. With the exception of those irregularities which are directly due to the effect of morbid conditions and external influences, all abnormalities are the result of modifications of normal developmental processes. The exceptions referred to are, however, very numerous; thus disease and external influences may lead to the obliteration of vessels, a condition M'hich is invariably associated with the enlargement of collateral vessels, and it will be obvious that abnormalities so produced may occur in almost any situation. Abnormalities which are determined by, or are dependent ui^on, modifications of the usual developmental processes are of greater interest. In the human subject they are generally due either to the retention of conditions which normally are only transitory, or to the acquire- ment of conditions which, though not as a rule present at any time in man, occur normally in other animals. There are in addition other variations from the normal, such as the division of the axillary artery into radial and ulnar branches ; the higher or lower division of the brachial artery ; the formation of " vasa aberrantia," e.g. of long slender vessels connecting the axillary or brachial to the radial, ulnar, or interosseous arteries ; the altered position of certain vessels, as e.g. the trans- ference of the subclavian artery to the front of the scalenus anticus, or of the ulnar arteiy to the front of the superficial flexor muscles; all of which, though undoubtedly due to alterations of ordinary develoijmeutal processes, still do not represent conditions met witli, either temijorarily or permanently, in man or in other animals. Their occurrence cannot at present be adequately explained, and their retention is entirely dependent upon their utilitj^ To the first and last of tliese difi'erent groujDS of abnormalities it is not necessary to refer further, whilst with regard to the rest it will be sufiicient to indicate those of greatest importance. They can only, however, be fully understood and exjilained on the basis of a comprehensive knowledge of the development and morphology of the vascular system, to the chapters on which the reader is referred. ABNOEMALITIES OF THE HEAKT. The heart may be transposed from the left to the right side of the body, a condition \\'luch is usually associated with general transposition of the viscera, and with the jjresence of a riglit instead of a left a(jrtic arch. Tlie external form of the heart does not as a rule vary much, but occasionally the apex is slightly bifid, a character it normally possesses at an early stage of its development, and which is retained in the adult in many cetaceans and sirenians. The internal conformation of the heart deviates from tlie normal much more frequently ; luore particularly is this the case witli regard to the septa which sejjarate the right from tlie left chambers. The interauricular sejitum may be entirely absent, as in fishes ; it may be fenestrated and incomplete, as in some amphibians ; or the foramen ovale may remain patent, as in ami^hibians and reptiles. The interventricular septum may be absent, as in fishes and amj^hibians, or incomplete, as in reptiles ; when incomplete, it is usually the "pars membranacea septi" which is deficient. ABNOEMALITIES OF AETEKIES. The pulmonary artery and tlie aorta may arise by a common stem, as in fishes, and some amphibians, and the common stem may s])ring either from the right or the left ventricle, or from both. In these cases the aortic bulb has remained undivided, and the normal position of the interventricular septum in relation to the lower orifice of the aortic bulb has been altered.