745 CHAMBEES OF THE HEAET. consists of a double fold of endocardium, strengthened by a little intermediate fibrous tissue, and the bases of the cusps are generally continuous with each other at the auriculo-ventricular orifice, where they are attached to a fibrous ring, but they may be separated by small intermediate lobes which fill the angles between the main segments. The apices of the cusps hang down into the ventricle. The margins, which are thinner than the central portions, are notched and irregular. The auricular surfaces are smooth. The ventricular surfaces are roughened, and, like the margins and apices, they give attachment to fine tendin- ous cords, the chordse tendinese, the opposite extremities of which are attached to muscular bundles, the musculi papillares, which project from the wall into the cavity of the ventricle. The pulmonary orifice, which lies in front and to the left of the tricuspid orifice, is guarded by a pulmonary valve composed of three semilunar segments (valvulae semilunares a. pulmonalis), two of which are placed anteriorly and one posteriorly. The convexity or outer border of each semilunar segment is attached to the wall of the pulmonary artery. The inner border is free, and it presents at its centre a small nodule, the corpus Arantii (nodulus valvulse semilunaris), and on each side of this body a small thin marginal segment of semilunar form, the lunule (lunula valvulfe semilunaris). Each segment of the valve is formed by a layer of endocardium on its ventricular surface, a layer of the inner coat of the artery on its arterial surface, and an intermediate stratum of fibrous tissue. Both the attached and the free margins of the cusps are strengthened by tendinous bands, and strands of condensed fibrous tissue radiate from the outer borders to the corpora Arantii, but they do not enter the lunulse. When the valve closes the corpora Arantii are closely apposed, the lunulse of the adjacent segments of the valve are pressed together, and they project vertically upwards into the interior of the artery. The cavity of the right ventricle is Kned by endocardium; the walls are smooth in the conus arteriosus, but are rendered rugose and sponge-like in the body by the inward projection of numerous muscular bundles, the columnae carnese (trabeculte carneae). These bundles are of three kinds; the simplest are merely columns raised in rehef on the wall of the ventricle; those of the second class are rounded bundles, free in the middle, but attached at each end to the wall of the ventricle. One special bundle of this group, called the moderator band, is attached by one extremity to the septum, and by the other to the antero-superior wall, at the base of the anterior papillary muscle ; it tends.to prevent over-distension of the cavity. The third group of columnee carnese are the musculi papillares, conical bundles continuous at their bases with the muscular wall of the ventricle, and terminating at their apices in numerous chordse tendinese which are attached to the apices, the borders, and ventricular surfaces of the cusps of the tricuspid valve. The musculi papillares of the right ventricle are—(1) a large anterior muscle, from which the chordse pass to the infundibular and marginal segments of the valve; (2) a smaller and more irregular posterior miiscle, sometimes represented by two or more segments, from which chordse pass to the marginal and septal cusps; and (.3) a group of muscular bundles, varying in size and number, which spring from the septum and are united by chordse to the infundibular and septal cusps. The walls of the right ventricle, the septal excepted, are much thinner than those of the left, but the columnse carnese of the first and second classes are coarser and less numerous in the right than in the left ventricle. The left ventricle (ventriculus sinister) is a conical chamber, and its cavity is oval in transverse section. The base is directed upwards and backwards, and in the greater part of its extent it is continuous with the corresponding auricle with which it communicates through the mitral orifice, but in front and to the right of its communication with the auricle it is continued into the ascending aorta. The mitral orifice is oval; its long axis runs obliquely from above and to the left downwards and to the right, and it is guarded by a valve consisting of two cusps, which is known as the mitral valve (valvula bicuspidalis). The two cusps of the valve are triangular and of unequal size. The smaller of the two, placed to the left and behind, is named the marginal, and the larger, placed to the right and in front, between the mitral and aortic orifices, is known as the aortic