THE UTEKUS. 1129 the margin of the openiug in the vaginal wall, through which it passes, and in this way a supravaginal portion (portio supravaginalis) is marked off from a vaginal • portion (portio vaginalis) of the cervix. In the vaginal portion of the cervix there is an opening—the external os uteri (orificium externum uteri)—through which the cavity of the uterus communicates with that of the vagina. In the uterus which has never been pregnant this opening is nearly circular, but in women who have borne children it is usually a transverse slit with a somewhat irregular outline. In front of and behind this opening the cervix forms two lips, an anterior and a posterior (labium anterius et labium posterius). The anterior lip is thicker, more rounded, and placed upon a higher level than the posterior lip, which is longer and thinner. The cervix enters the vagina through the upper part of its anterior wall in such a manner that the external os uteri is directed against the upper part of the posterior vaginal wall (Fig. 775). Parovarium Ijigamen Lateral argle Fallopian tube | Ovary of ovary Uterus a of uterus Hydatiii- Vaginal cavity A B Fig. 774.—A. The Uterus and Broad Ligament seen from behind (the broad ligament has been spread out). a, h, and c, the isthmus tulire, the ligament of the ovary, and the round ligament of the right side cut short. B. Diagrammatic Representation of the Uterine Cavity opened up from in front. Cavity of the Uterus.—The cavity of the uterus (cavum uteri) is, owing to the great thickness of the uterine wall, small in comparison with the size of the organ. In the body the cavity is merely a narrow chink between the anterior and posterior walls, which are almost in contact (Fig. 775). When, however, the organ is opened from above downwards in coronal section the cavity of the body has a triangular outline (Fig. 774). The base of the triangle is directed upwards, and corresponds to a line drawn between the openings of the Fallopian tubes, while the apex is directed downwards towards the cervix. The sides of the triangle are convex inwards towards the cavity. The cavity of the body becomes continuous with that of the neck, or cervix, by an opening called the internal os uteri (orificium internum uteri), which is a little smaller and more circular than the external os uteri. The cavity of the cervix, or cervical canal (canalis cervicis uteri), extends from the internal os uteri, where it joins the cavity of the body, to the external os uteri, where it opens into the vagina. It is a somewhat spindle-shaped passage which is narrower above and below than in its middle part; also sections show that its antero-posterior diameter is shorter than its transverse one, owing to an approximation of its anterior and posterior walls. In the body of the uterus the walls of the cavity are smooth and even, but in the cervical canal the mucous membrane forms a remarkable series of folds, called the arbor vitse uterinae or plicae palmatse. These consist of an anterior and a posterior longitudinally directed fold or ridge, from which a large number of secondar}" folds, or rugae, branch off obliquely upwards and outwards (Fig. 774). Connexions of the Uterus and its Relations to the Peritoneum.—In addition to the Fallopian tubes at its upper lateral angles, and the vagina lielow, the uterus possesses other important connections. Some of these are simply peritoneal folds passing from the uterus to neighbouring structures; others contain fibrous connective tissue, or smooth muscle fibres.