131 THE MALAE BONES. between them. They first make their appearance in the second month of intrauterine Ufe, shortly after the clavicle has begun to ossify. By the sixth mouth they are so united that their independent character is obscured. Five centres are described—an external or malar, which forms the bone to the outer side of the infra-orbital canal; an inner or orbito-nasal, from which is developed the inner part of the floor of the orbit, the frontal process, and the wall of the antrum; a 2^alatine, for the posterior three-fourths of the palatal process ; a ?iasal, situated between the frontal process and the canine tooth ; and within this and nearer the middle line and below, an incisive centre, from which the pre- maxilte are developed, thus forming the anterior fourth of the palatal process in the adult. In the early stages of the development of the bone the alveolar groove, in which the teeth are developed, lies close below the infraorbital groove, and it is not till later that they become separated by the growth of the antrum, which first makes its appearance as a shallow- fossa to the inner side of the orbito-nasal element about the fourth month. In the adult bone the course of the infraorbital canal and foramen serves to indicate the line of fusion of the orbito-nasal and malar elements, whilst the position of the anterior palatine canal serves to determine the line of union of the incisive with the palatal elements. In addition to the foregoing centres, Eambaud and Renault describe another which, together with its fellow, is wedged in between the incisive and the palatal elements beneath the vomer, thus explaining the Y-shaped arrangement of the foramina of Stenson, which open into the anterior palatine canal. The premaxillse, which in most vertebrates are in- dependent bones lying in front of the superior maxillte, constitute in man and apes the portions of the upper jaw which lie in front of the anterior palatine foramen, and support the superior incisor teeth. They are developed from the incisive centres above described; the line of fusion of these elements with the maxillae proper can readily be seen in young skulls, and occa- sionally also in the adult. It corresponds to a suture which passes on the palate obliquely outwards and forwards, from the anterior palatine foramen to the interval between the lateral incisor and the canine tooth. In cases of alveolar cleft palate the adjacent bones fail to unite along the line of the suture. In some instances, however, the cleft passes outwards between the central and lateral incisor teeth, and this condition suggests the explanation that the premaxillary element is derived from two centres—a lateral and a mesial. The researches of Albrect and Warinski have confirmed this view. The latter anatomist further observes that the lateral cleavage may lead to a division of the dental germ of the lateral incisor tooth, and so explain the occurrence of the supernumerary incisor which is occasionally met with. In this way the different varieties of cleft palate are readily explained ; mesial cleft palate being due to failure of union between the two premaxillary bones. Lateral cleft palate may be of two types : the cleft in one case passing forward between the central and lateral incisor, and being due to the non-union of the two elements from which the premaxilla is primarily developed; the other, in which the cleft passes between the lateral incisor and the canine, or between the lateral incisor and a supernumerary incisor, owing to the imperfect fusion of the premaxilla laterally with the maxilla. Pig. 102.—Ossification of Superior Maxilla. A, Outer side ; B, Inner side ; C, Under side, a. Nasal process ; b, Orbital plate ; c, Anterior nasal spine ; d, Infraorbital groove ; e, Infraorbital foramen ; /, Anterior palatine groove ; g, Palatal process ; h, Premaxillary suture ; /, Alveolar process. The Malar Bones. The malar bone (os zygomaticum) underlies the most prominent part of the eheek, and is hence often called the cheek-bone. Placed to the outer side of the orbital cavity, it forms the sharp external border of that hollow, and serves to separate that space from the temporal and zygomatic fosste which lie behind; below, it rests upon and is united to the superior maxilla; behind, it enters into the formation of the zygomatic arch which bridges across the temporal fossa. 9 a