1177 THE FACE. In dividing a shortened frenum for "tongue-tie" the ranine vessels and the orifices of Wiiarton's ducts must be avoided. Behind the frenum lingufe are the anterior borders of the genio-hyo-glossi, which descend to the upf)er genial tubercles. In operations necessitat- ing the removal of tlie region of the symphysis of the jaw, or the separation of the origins of the genio-hyo-glossi, the tongue must be kept forward, otherwise the patient will be suffocated by the organ falling backwards over the entrance to the laiynx. In removing a small salivary calculus from the floor of the mouth the calculus sliould be fixed with the finger against the inner surface of the jaw before cutting down upon it. " When the teeth are clenched the vestibule of tlie mouth coniniunicates behind the last molars with the oral cavity proper through an openhig which barely admits a medium-sized catheter. Hence, when the jaws cannot be separated it is generally necessary to feed the patient through a tube passed along the tloor of the nose. By opening the mouth widely and taking a deep inspiration, the soft palate is elevated, and the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces are rendered prominent (Fig. 638). The anterior pillars are seen to spring from the anterior surface of the soft palate, close to the base of the uvula, and to arch downwards and outwards in front of the tonsils to end at the posterior extremity of the lateral border of the tongue. The posterior pillars are really the continuation of the lower free border of the soft palate downwards liehind the tonsils to become attached to, and lost upon, tlie postero-lateral wall of the pharynx. Together with the lower edge of the soft palate and the base of the tongue they bound a hemispherical opening (isthmus faucium), through which is visible the oral portion of the mucous membrane cover- ing the posterior wall of the pharynx. The faucial tonsils lie one on each side of the isthmus, between the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces; they are situated opposite the angle of the jaw, but they cannot be felt from the outside. Each tonsil is covered on its free surface by mucous membrane upon which are seen the orifices of the tonsillar crypts ; the outer or deep surface is covered by a layer of fibrous tissue which forms an imperfect capsule to the organ. According to Merkel, the internal carotid artery is situated I'o cm. behind the outer margin of the tonsil, which is separated from the superior constrictor by a quantity of loose cellular tissue and fat, so that the gland can be grasped with a volsellum and pulled forward without dragging the vessel with it. The tonsil receives its Uood-supj^ly mainly from a small vessel derived from the anterior palatine artery; when this branch is larger than usual and. adherent to the capsule of the tonsil the l)leeding which attends the operation of removal of the tonsils may be consider- able. The, haemorrhage can be arrested by pressing the bleeding point outwards against the internal pterygoitl and the ramus of the jaw. If the bleeding be froin a spurting vessel of larger size, its source, according to Merkel, is probably the facial artery, which has been wounded as it arches iipwards beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles to within a short distance from the outer surface of the tonsil. In children and adolescents the tonsils are frequently hypertro]ihied ; the enlargement may be either general, more towards the middle line, downwards along the pharynx, or upwards l)ehind the soft palate; to expose and thoroughly remove the last-mentioned variety of enlargement the upper part of the anterior pillar of the fauces must be divided. The mucous membrane and the periosteum of the hard palate are so closely united as to form practically one membrane. The posterior palatine arteries, after leaving the posterior palatine foramina, run forward in shallow grooves in the hard palate, close to its alveolar margin. In the operation for cleft palate (staphylorrapl!]/), in order to secure nourishment for the mnco-periosteal flaps, the lateral incisions should be made external to these vessels. Secondary hfemorrhage after the operation for cleft palate is treated by plugging the posterior palatine foramen, which lies a little internal to the last molar tooth about j^- in. in front of the hamular process, which can be felt at the upper extremity of the fold of mucous membrane containing the pterygo-maxillarv ligament. In tlie closure of a wide cleft of the soft ]ialate the tension of the tensor palati muscle is got rid of