976 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. . Shows the dowiigiuwth of the dental hiiiiina U.L from the surface epiiheliiiiu E and the beginning of tlie enamel germ E.G. 11. Shows tlie further growth of the enamel germ and its invagination. III. The enamel germ is more invaginated, ami its inner layer of cells becomes columnar. A, the dental lamina, grows thinner, but near its posterior or lingual edge there is an enlarge- ment H.li whicli is the re- serve germ fur a permanent tootli. The superticial cells of the dentine papilla P are becoming columnar. IV. The inner columnar cells of tlie enamel germ (called enamel cells) A liave formed a cap of enamel En, inside which the superticial cells of the papilla, the odonto- blasts O, have formed a layer of dentine D. the description refers to the development of a lower^tootli. The upper teeth are of course developed in a manner exactly similar. 1. The first distinct evidence of the development of the teeth is to be found in a thickening of the mouth epithelium, at the site of the future gum, and a resulting down- growth of its deeper portion into the substance of the primitive jaw (Fig. 659, I.). This epithelial downgrowtli is continued along tlie whole length of the gum, and is known as tiie dental lamina or tooth- band (Zalmleiste). On the under surface of the dental lamina there soon appears a series of knob-like projections—one for each of the milk teeth (Fig. 659, II.) —which are known as enamel germs or enamel organs. These enamel organs are connected with the epithelium of the dental lamina by a constricted part, and although at first knob-like, they soon become bell - shaped owing to the in- vagination of the lower surface of the knobs, so that each may now be com- pared to an inverted egg-cup. 2. As soon as the enamel organs begin to assume a cup-like shape, tlie cellular connective tissue of the jaw beneatli grows up and projects into the cavity of tlie cup (Fig. 659, 111.) in the form of a papilla — the dentine papilla (papilla dentis). The arrangement, pursuing t)nr simile, may now be compared to an egg fitting into its cup—the dentine papilla I'epresenting the egg, and the enamel organ the cup (Fig. 659, III.). 3. The two layers of cells which are thus brought in contact, namely, the epithelial cells lining the concavity of the enamel organ, and the superficial cells of the dentine jmpilla, become elongated or columnar, and undergo other changes, preliminary to the pro- duction of the enamel by the former— which are now called enamel cells or ameloblasts—and the dentine by the latter, which are known as odontoblasts. 4. The odontoblasts, that is the layer of columnar-sliapcd connective tissue cells lying on the surface of the dentine papilla, begin to form at their outer ends a layer of dentine (Fig. 659, IV.). Similarly, IV V. Shows a more advanced stage still. The deposit of dentine is extending down- wanls, and enclosing the papilla to form the future pulp, in which a vessel V is seen. Flc. 6.o9. -Diagram to illdsthate OF A Tooth. Development Inner layer of enamel germ ; H, Outer layer ; C, Remains of intermediate cells; D, Dentine; D.L, Dental lamina; E, Epithelium ; E.G, Enamel germ; En, Enamel; F, Dental furrow; L.D, Labio-dental furrow; M, Connective tissue cells; (), Oilontoblasts ; P, Dentine ])apilla ; B.(i, Reserve germ ; V, Blood-vessel. the enamel cells lining the cup begin to form at their inner surface a layer of enamel on the top of the layer of dentine (Fig. 659, IV.), to which it adheres : in each case the deposit taking place first at the summit of the tooth. 5. The formation of dentine and enamel proceeds apace, the dentine increasing at the expense of the papilla, the enamel similarly encroaching on the cup or enamel organ ; and in each case the two layers of cells—odontoblasts and enamel cells—which produced the deposits, retiring gradually from one another, as the space between them becomes occupied by the newly-formed dentine and enamel respectively (Fig. 659, V.). The remains of the dentine papilla persist as the pulp of the tooth, wliich is covered even in the adult by the odontoblasts, and occupies the pulp cavity, i.e. the central part of the tootli to which the dentine formation has not extended.