523 OCCIPITAL LOBE. to the Sylvian fissure below. It is bounded in front by the fissure of Eolando and behind by t)ie superior and inferior postcentral sulci. The superior parietal gyrus is the area of cerebral cortex which lies between the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere above and the ramus horizontalis below. In front it is bounded by the superior postcentral sulcus, whilst behind it is connected with the occipital lobe by the arcus parieto-occipitalis. It is continuous round the supero-mesial border with the prtecuneus. The inferior parietal gyrus lies below the ramus horizontalis and the ramus occi- pitalis and behind the inferior praecentral sulcus. It is more or less directly con- tinuous with the occipital lobe behind and the temporal lobe below. From before backwards it presents three arching convolutions, viz. the supra-marginal, the angular, and the postparietal. The supramarginal convolution is bent round the upturned end of the posterior limb of the Sylvian fissure, and stands in continuity behind and below this, with the first temporal gyrus. The angular convolution arches over the upturned end of the parallel sulcus and becomes continuous with the second temporal convolution. The postparietal convolution winds round the upturned end of the second temporal sulcus and runs into the third temporal gyrus. Occipital Lobe.—The occipital lobe forms the hinder pyramidal part of the cerebral hemisphere; and although very imperfectly mapped off from the temporal and parietal lobes, which lie in front of it, it is nevertheless one of the most natural subdivisions of the cerebral hemisphere. It is not developed in the brain of the quadruped. Man and the ape alone possess a well-marked occipital lobe, and it may be defined as being that part of the hemisphere which encloses the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle. Being pyramidal in form, it presents three surfaces and an apex or occipital pole. On the mesial aspect of the hemisphere it is separated from the parietal lobe (i.e. the prsecuneus) by the internal parieto-occi- pital fissure. On the tentorial or inferior surface it is not marked off in any way from the temporal lobe and the limbic lobe, which lie in front of it. It is necessary, therefore, on this aspect to employ an arbitrary line of demarcation ; one which extends from the praeoccipital notch on the infero-lateral border of the hemisphere to the isthmus of the limbic lobe (i.e. the narrow part of the limbic lobe immedi- ately below the hinder end of the corpus callosum) will serve the purpose. On the external surface the external parieto-occipital fissure, and an arbitrary line from this to the prajoccipital notch, may be regarded as separating the occipital from the parietal and temporal lobes. The upturned end of the second temporal sulcus may lie in the course of this line. In the ape, in which the occipital lobe is better marked than in man, there is a very definite boundary on both the mesial (internal parieto-occipital fissure) and the external aspect of the hemisphere (" Aft'enspalte "); and in the liuman foetus there is, in most cases, a fissural infolding on eacli of the three aspects of the hemisphere marking off the occijaital lobe in the most definite manner. The internal infolding is retained as the internal jJarieto-occipital fissure ; tlie external infolding, or the fissura perpendicularis externa, is the representative of the " Att'enspalte " of the ape, and it gradually disappears from the surface of the brain; the inferior infolding, whicli is connected with the mid-collateral fissure, is also to some extent transitory. On the mesial aspect of the occipital lobe we find: (1) the calcarine fissure, (2) the cuneus, and (3) the gyrus lingualis. The calcarine fissure begins on the occipital pole by a bifurcated extremity, which lies in the groove which is formed on this part of the brain by the lateral sinus. From this it pursues a slightly arched course forwards, and ends by cutting into the limbic lobe immediately below the splenium or thickened hinder margin of the corpus callosum. The calcarine fissure is joined by the internal parieto-occipital fissure at a point somewhat nearer its anterior than its posterior extremity. Together, the two fissures present a -<-shaped figure. Between the two limbs of the Y is placed the cuneus. If the calcarine and internal parieto-occipital fissures are opened up so as to expose the bottom in each case, three well-marked deep or submerged annectant gyri will usually be dis- played. One of these, the best marked, called the gyrus cunei, marks ofi" the parieto-occipital from the calcarine fissure and joins the cuneus with the limbic lobe. In the chimpanzee and in the lower apes the gyrus cunei is on the surface, and there is no communication between the two fissures; in the orang, gibbon, and microcephalic idiot, it may either be submerged or on the