JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LAEYNX. 913 The lateral part on each side presents very different connexions. It is not attached to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage, but slopes upwards and inwards within the thyroid ala, and thus diminishes materially the transverse width of the lower subdivision of the laryngeal cavity. Its attachments are very definite. Below, it is fixed to the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, immediately subjacent to the lining mucous membrane of the larynx; above, it is directly continuous with the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament or sup- porting band of the true vocal cord. This ligament, indeed, may be looked upon as constituting the upper thickened free border of the lateral part of the crico- thyroid membrane. In front, the lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane is attached to the lower half of the inner surface of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, close to the angle, and behind, to the lower border of the processus vocalis of the arytenoid cartilage. In contact with the outer surface of the lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane, and separat- ing it from the thyroid ala, are the lateral crico-thyroid and the thyro-arytenoid muscles; the the lining mucous membrane of the larynx. Inferior Thyro-arytenoid Ligament (ligamentum in connexion with the upper border of the lateral Vocal process Riiiia ''lottidis Ligament of true vocal cord Lateral part of crico- tliyroid niemlirane cricoid for inferior Facet coniu of thyroid cartila Cricoid cartilage Fig. 615.—Dissectihn to show the Lateral Part 01? THE Crico-thyroid Membrane. The right ala of the thyroid cartilage has been removed. inyier surface is clothed by vocale).—This is formed part of the crico-thyroid membrane, and it constitutes the supporting ligament of the true vocal cord. It is attached in front, close to its fellow of the opposite side, to the middle of the angular depression between Lhe two alfe of the thyroid cartilage. From this it stretches backwards, and becomes incorporated with the tip and upper border of the processus vocalis which projects forwards from the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament is composed of yellow elastic fibres, and embedded in its anterior extremity there is frequently a minute nodule of elastic cartilage. Its inner border is sharp and free, and is clothed by mucous membrane, which in this position is very thin and tightly bound down to the ligament. The superior thyro-arytenoid ligament (ligamentum ventriculare) supports the false vocal cord. It is weak and indefinite, but somewhat longer than the preceding ligament. In front it is attached to the angular depression between the two al;e of the thyroid cartilage, above the true vocal ligaments and close to the attachment of the thyro-epiglottidean ligament, and it extends backwards to be fixed to a tubercle on the antero-external surface of the arytenoid cartilage, a short dis- tance above the processus vocalis. It is composed of connective tissue and elastic fibres which are continuous with the fibrous tissue in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. Epiglottidean Ligaments.—The epiglottis is bound by ligaments to the base of the tongue, to the hyoid bone, and to the thyroid cartilage. The glosso-epi- glottidean ligaments are three in number, viz. a middle and two lateral. The middle glosso-epiglottidean ligament (plica glosso-epiglottica mediana) is a prominent mesial fold of mucous membrane which proceeds from the middle of the anterior free surface of the epiglottis to the base of the tongue. The lateral glosso-epiglotti- dean ligaments (plicte glosso-epiglotticte laterales) are similar mucous folds which proceed from the margins of the epiglottis to the side of the base of the tongue and to the pharyngeal wall. From the latter attachment they are sometimes called the pharyngo-epigiottic folds. Between the two layers of mucous membrane which form each of these three folds there is a certain amount of elastic tissue. By the glosso-epiglottidean folds the depression between the root of the tongue and ttie epiglottis is marked off into two fossiB termed the valleculas. The hyo-epiglottidean ligament (ligamentum hyoepiglotticum) is a short, broad 58