LYMPHATIC GLANDS AND VESSELS OF UPPEK EXTKEMITY. 867 the subcutaneous tissue, and furni two groups, a lower and an upper. The loiver or ante-cuhital group is frequently absent; when present it includes two or three glands which lie in front of the elbow; they receive afferent vessels from the front of the forearm and from the median part of the palm, and they give off efferent vessels which pass upwards and inwards along the antero-internal aspect of the arm. At varying levels these efferents pierce the deep fascia and terminate in the external axillary glands. The upper or supra-troclilear group lies a short distance above the internal condyle; as a rule it includes two glands only, but the number may be increased to four; they he close to the commencement of the basilic vein, and their afferent vessels are derived from the inner two or three digits, the inner side of the forearm, and the inner side of the palm. Their efferents pass upwards along the basilic vein, which they accompany through the opening in the deep fascia; they then join the deep lymphatics, which are ascending along the brachial artery, and accompany them to the external axillary glands. (2) The deep glands lie along the vessels in the axilla and, just below the clavicle, in the groove l^etween the pectoralis major and the deltoid muscles. They are accordingly divisiljle into (a) the axillary and (&) the infra-clavicular glands. One or two small glands are occasionally found with the arteries of the forearm and a few with the brachial artery; they receive deep afferent lymphatics from the adjacent muscles, ligaments, and the bones, and they give off efferent vessels which terminate in the external axillary glands. (a) The axillary glands are arranged in three groups—external, anterior, and posterior. , (i.) The external group (lymphoglandulse axillares) consists of from six or more glands which, form a chain along the antero-internal aspect of the axillary vessels, extending from the lower border of the pectoralis major to the outer border of the first rib. They receive afferent vessels, both superficial and deep, from the whole of the upper extremity; many of these pass directly to the glands from the tissues, the remainder include the efferents of the superficial and deep glands of the forearm and arm, the efferents of the infra-clavicular glands, and some of the efferents of the anterior and posterior axillary glands. The efferents of the external axillary glands pass along the subclavian vein, occasionally forming a common trunk, and terminate on the right side in the right lymphatic duct, and on the left side in the thoracic duct. (ii.) The anterior axillary or pectoral glands (lymphoglandulse pectorales), four or five in number, lie at the anterior part of the axilla, in the angle between the pectoral muscles and the serratus magnus. They receive afferent vessels from the superficial parts of the anterior and lateral walls of the body above the umbilicus, and from the outer two-thirds of the mammary gland. Some of their efferents pass to the external axillary glands, but the majority accompany the efferent vessels of the latter glands to their termination. (iii.) The posterior or subscapular set of axillary glands (lymphoglandulse subscapulares), four or five in number, lie along the sides of the subscapular artery on the posterior wall of the axilla. Their aff'erents are the superficial lymphatics of the lateral and posterior parts of the body - wall, above the umbilicus and the superficial lymphatics of the lower and back part of the neck. Their efferents either join the external axillary glands, or they pass to the root of the neck, where they anastomose with the lower cervical lymphatics, and end either in the right lymphatic or the thoracic duct, according to the side on which they are situated. (Jo) The infra-clavicular glands lie deeply in the groove between the pectoralis major and the deltoid muscles, directly Ijelow the clavicle. They receive afferents from the oi^ter side of the arm and the shoulder, which accompany the cephalic vein, and their efferents pass to the external axillary glands or to the lower deep glands of the neck. The lymphatic vessels of the upper extremity are, like the glands, arranged in two sets, (1) the superficial and (2) the deep. The superficial lymphatic vessels commence in cutaneous plexuses which are finest and most dense on the palmar aspects of the fingers and hand. The efferents