THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 436 MID-DORSAL LAMINA MYELO- SPONGIUM limiting membrane, a series of clefts or open spaces are formed, in which appear large numbers of round cells called germinal cells. The precise origin of these germinal cells is not at present satisfactorily estab- lished ; but they rapidly increase in number, and in the human embryo of four weeks they are seen to form an almost continuous layer beneath the internal limiting membrane. It is well to note, however, that in the thin mid - dorsal and mid - ventral laminaj no germinal cells are formed. Here the wall remains purely spongio- blastic. The peripheral portions of the spongioblasts likewise undergo a marked transformation. They MID-VENTRAL LAMINA FlQ. 323. give off branches or processes, and by the interlacement of these a sponge-like network with irregular meshes is formed in the outer poi'- tion of the wall of the neural tube. The entire sustentacular fi'amework into which the spongioblasts are de- veloped is termed the myelosponge. The numerous germinal cells which are placed in the clefts between the inner cohmmar portion of the myelo- sponge are the progenitors of the nerve - cells. Many of them show karyokinetic stages, and by their -Schema ov a Transverse Section through the division they give rise to the neuro- Barly Neural Tube (Young). Ijl^S^g j^gj.^g _ ^^gUg ^ The left side of the section shows au earlier stage than neuroblast presents a very character- the right side. j^^-^ pear-shaped appearance. From the body of the cell a tapering process grows out, and this represents the early axis ■ cylinder process or axon of the cell. But the crowds of neuroblasts which are thus formed do not remain in their early primitive position beneath the internal limiting membrane. They migrate outwai'ds, and in the course of time they come to lie in the part of the myelosponge immediately adjoining the reticular meshwork, which is formed by the outer parts of the spongioblasts. Here their further outward migration is arrested. The reticular meshwork would almost appear to act as a sieve or a filter, which prevents their progress towards the periphei'y of the wall of the tube. It offers no impediment to the actively growing axons of the neuroblasts, however, which freely enter it and thread their way through it. At this stage the thick lateral wall of the neural tube presents three layers, viz. :— 1. An inner layer, formed by tlie columnar part of the myelosponge forsaken by the neuroblasts. This is termed the ependymal layer, and it ultimately resolves itself into the layer of columnar ciliated epithelial cells which lines the central canal of the cord. 2. An intermediate layer, in which the neui'oblasts are present, and which is afterwards converted into the gray matter of the cord. This is called the mantle layer. 3. An outer layer, formed of the sponge-like meshwork of the outer parts of the original spongioblasts. Into this the axons of many of the neuroblasts are seen threading their way. This layer is ultimately transformed into the white matter of the cord, and at this stage it may be termed the peripheral reticular layer. Alar and Basal Laminae of the Lateral Wall of the Neural Tube.—From what has been said, it must be evident that the changes detailed above are confined to the thick lateral walls of the neural tube. In these alone do neuroblastic cells arise, whilst the thin mid-dorsal and mid-ventral laminte remain spongioblastic throughout. But whilst these changes are going on the thick lateral wall begins to bulge outwards in an angular fashion, so as to widen the central cavity of the tube and become itself, along the line where the cavity is widest, demarcated into two portions—a narrow dorsal strip termed the alar lamina of His, and a broader ventral strip called the basal lamina of His. The cavity of the tube now appears on transverse section more or less lozenge-shaped, and