THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1044 Columns of Morgagni (column;e recti Morgagui).—The mucous membrane of the anal canal presents, in its upper, and part of its middle thirds, a number (5 to 10) of permanent vertical folds, separated by grooves, and known as the columns of Morgagni (Fig. 705).' , They are usually to h, .'"^mA. inch (8 to 12 mm.) in lengtli, \ to \ inch (3 to 6 mm.) in width, and they Longitudinal fibres of, rectum Part of levator aniV,'«i^i»A' Internal _VM^^i sphincter '""SI^&X Anal canal V extend down to within \ Fig. 705.- or I inch (12 to 7 mm.) of the anal aperture. They are formed by infoldings of the mucous membrane, con- taining in their interior some unstriped muscle de- \nai valves j^.^yed from the muscularis mucosae, and also, as a rule, an artery and a vein. Very often the contained vein pi-esents an enlargement, or a knob4ike tortuous plexus in the lower part of the coluniu J below this the plexus is continued down beneath the mucous membrane of the lower zone of the anal canal into the anal veins (see page 1045). This portion has accordingly been described as the htemorrhoidal zone of the anal canal. Sometimes the columns of Morgagui are very indistinct; occasionally no trace of them can be found, although in the foetus (Fig. 706) they are usuall}^ well marked. Anal Valves (of Morgagni).—-If a probe be passed downwards along the groove which separates two adjacent columns of Morgagni (Fig. 705), its point will usually catch in a small crescentic fold which joins the lower ends of the two columns. These little folds, which resemble in miniature the segments of the semilunar valves of the heart, are the anal valves. They upwards, and behind each -The Interior of the Anal Canal and Lower Part OF Rectum, Showing the cohnnns of Morgagni ami the anal valves between their lower ends. The columns were more numerous in this specimen than usual. is found a little pocket- like sinus (sinus rectalis). project inwards and These valves were first described by Morgagni. Re- cently the view has been advanced by Ball that they are the remains of the em- bryonic eloacal or anal mem- brane ; and he explains tlie production of "painful fissure of the anus " by the tearing down of one of them during deftecation l)y liardened masses of fffices. The eijideriiiis is con- tinued in a thiu and modified form from the exterior up along the anal canal as far as the margins of the anal valves; and tlie view is pretty generally held that only this lower portion of the anal passage is formed from the proctodeum in the embryo. Tlie junction of the skin with the mucous membrane is indicated by a fine wavy line (" white line " of Hilton—aiio-cutaneous line of Hermann) wliich runs around the bowel at the level of the valves. The mucous membrane of the region immediately above the anal valve* is of a more or less transitional nature ; glands are absent from it, and over the columns of Morgagni it is said to be covered with stratified epithelium, the superficial cells of which are flattened, whilst in the grooves between the columns the epithelium is columnar. In tlie ujiper zone of tlie anal canal the mucous membrane gradually approaches to the rectal tyjie, but the Lielxukiihn's glands and Ijmiphoid nodules are few and scattered. Anus or Anal Orifice.—At the inferior aperture of the anal caual, the -The Anal Canal and Lower Part of Rectum in the FCETUS. A, aged 4 to 5 months ; B, 6 months ; and C, 9 months. In each the anal caual is distinctly marked off from the rectum proper ; the columns of Morgagni and the rectal valves are distinct. R.V. Rectal valves.