THE SYSTEM. YASCULAK By Alfred H. Young and Arthur Kobinson. The vascular system consists of a series of tubular vessels, with more or less distinct walls, which run through all parts of the body. Some contain blood, others are filled with a colourless fluid called lymph; hence the distinction between the blood-vascular system and the lymph-vascular system. The two systems differ, not only as regards their contents, but also in their relations to the tissues amongst which they lie; for whilst the vessels of the former system are closed, those of the latter communicate freely with intercellular spaces and serous sacs. The blood-vascular system is tubular throughout; the tubes or vessels possess distinct walls; they vary in size and in the structure of their walls, but all con- tain blood, which is conveyed through them to and from the tissue elements of the body. The blood is propelled along the vessels chiefly hy a central propulsive organ—the heart. The outgoing vessels from the heart, along which blood is transmitted to the tissues, are termed arteries; the vessels which return blood from the tissues to the heart are known as veins ; whilst the smallest tubes—those which connect the arteries and veins together, constituting at once the terminations of the arteries and the commencements of the veins—are called capillaries. Blood capillaries are very small (hair-like) vessels with exceedingly thin walls, which permit of the easy passage outwards of the nutritive plasma from the blood to the tissues, and, in the opposite direction, of some of the products of tissue changes as well as of modified food material from the alimentary canal. Arteries and veins are simply conducting passages; structurally they differ from capillaries in the greater complexity of their walls. They vary greatly in size, but are always larger than capillaries, and they grow larger and larger the nearer they are to the heart. With increase in size there is a corresponding increase in the thickness and complexity of their walls. Structure of Blood Capillaries.—Capillaries measure from aTnro to o-ow of 9,n inch in diameter, and about to of an inch in length. Their walls are simple, and, in the smallest capillaries, consist principally of elongated elastic endo- thelial cells, with sinuous edges, pointed extremities, and oval nuclei. The cells are cemented to one another along their margins by intercellular cement, which readily stains with nitrate of silver. Here and there the cement substance appears to accu- mulate, forming minute spots indicative of the less perfect apposition of the edges of the cells. These spots, when small, form the so-called stigmata; when larger they are known as stomata. The larger capillaries are invested by a connective tissue sheath consisting of branched cells which are united together and to the endothelial cells of the capillary wall. This sheath is termed the adventitia capillaris. Capillaries are arranged in networks, the nature and character of which differ in different tissues. The small arteries which end in them are known as capillary arterioles, and the venous radicles which commence from them are appropriately termed capillary veins. Structure of arteries and veins.—The delicate elastic endothelial memliraue forming the wall of the simplest capillaries extends as a continuous lining through- out the whole of the blood-vascular system. The constituent cells are fusiform,