MORPHOLOGY OF THE VEINS. 893 The Limb Arteries. In all probability tlie vessels of both tlie anterior and the posterior extremities are derived from several somatic segmental arteries, the majority of which, however, in the course of phylo- genetic development, have atrophied. The np2jer limb is supplied in man by the lateral otfset from tlie venti'al branch of the seventh somatic segmental artery. It passes out into the extremity behind tlie shoulder girdle, courses through the upper arm, enters the antecubital fossa, and is continued through the forearm, in the early stages, as the anterior interosseous artery, to the deep part of the palm, wliere it terminates in the deep palmar arch. At a later period a median artery is given off from the parent stem, and it terminates in a superficial palmar arch; still later the radial and ulnar branches are given off. The latter grow i^ajDidly, soon exceeding in size the parent stem, and they terminate in the superficial and deep palmar arches. The interosseous and median arteries decrease, and generally lose their direct connexions with the palmar arches. The posterior interosseous artery is also a secondary brancli from the parent stem, and the digital arteries are offsets from the palmar arterial arches. The chief arteries of the lower extremities spring directly from the caudal arches, and may be looked upon as being essentially segmental; whether they represent the whole or only parts of typical somatic segmental arteries, however, is not clear. The arteries of the hind-linibs certainly show no very obvious indications of division into dorsal and ventral branches, though such indications are not entirely wanting. In their com- parative absence it is sujjjjosed that the dorsal branches have been either suppressed or incor- porated with the common stems ; that similarly the ventral branches and their lateral offsets are indistinguishably fused, and that probably both are rejjresented in a limb artery. The original stem vessel of the lower limb is the sciatic artery, which is continued down- M-ards behind the pelvic girdle into the pojiliteal and peroneal arteries, and so to the plantar arch. Subsequently the external iliac artery is given off from the caudal arch above the origin of the sciatic, and, passing into the limb in front of the pelvic girdle, it becomes the femoral artery. This vessel ultimately unites with the upper jjart of the joopliteal artery, and after this communication is established the lower part of the sciatic atrojjhies and loses its connexion with the pojjliteal, ■svhich henceforth appears to be the direct continuation of the femoral trunk ; therefore, whilst the main artery of the upper limb is formed by the prolongation of the lateral branch of one segmental artery, the corresjjonding vessel of the lower extremity is developed from representatives of two somatic segmental arteries, the external iliac and femoral trunks being the representatives of one, whilst the popliteal and its continuation, the peroneal, are parts of another. The first main artery of the leg is the peroneal, which is continued into the j^lantar arch ; after a time, however, the posterior and anterior tibial branches are given off from the stem, over which, as a rule, they soon preponderate in size, and they terminate in the plantar arch, whilst the parent trunk diminishes and loses its direct connexion with the arch. The peroneal artery corresponds in position and development witli the interosseous trunk and tlie anterior interosseous artery in the forearm. The posterior tibial ajj^^arently corre- sponds with the median artery; it develojjs in a similar way, and has similar relations to homologous nerves, the jjosterior tibial nerve representing the combined median and ulnar nerves of the upper extremity. Tlie anterior tibial artery represents the j)Osterior interosseous, whilst the radial and ulnar arteries of the upper extremity are not represented in the lower limb. MORPHOLOGY OF THE VEINS. Two dorsal longitudinal vessels, one on each' side, connect the successive segmental veins together. They do not, liowever, in any part of their course, fuse together to form a single vessel comparable to the descending aorta. Of these dorsal longitudinal vessels, that on the right side greatly enlarges, and from it the main stem vessels which return blood from the body walls, the head and neck, and the limbs, are almost entirely formed. The left dorsal longitudinal vessel remains relatively small—in jjarts, indeed, it altogether disappears—and the blood conveyed to it by the corresponding segmental veins is transmitted across the middle line to the chief functional stem by later develojDed and superadded transverse communicating channels, Mdiich are formed between the more primitive longitudinal anastomoses. The primitive dorsal longitudinal anastomosing channels include on each side (1) the primi- tive jugular vein, (2) the primitive cardinal vein, and (3) the duct of Cuvier; the last-named vessel, however, is not so much a longitudinal anastomosis as a communicating channel between the longitudinal anastomoses and the heart, for it is formed by the junction of the i^rimitive jugular and cardinal veins, and opens into the sinus venosus of the primitive heart. From these vessels, and from the transverse communications which are established between the jnimitive jugular and cardinal veins of oi^posite sides, the chief veins of the head and neck and the body are formed ; there are in addition, liowever, three later-formed vessels from which some, or portions of some, of the main stem vessels of the body are evolved. These later-formed vessels are the two internal jugular veins and the upjjer part of the inferior vena cava, whilst from the latter of these portions of the renal veins, the suprarenal veins and the spermatic