THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 804 descends into the pelvis, to terminate, as a rule, opposite the upper border of the <freat sciatic notch, in two divisions—anterior and posterior—from each of which branches of distribution are given off. The artery measures about one and a half inches in length, and is the inner of the two terminal branches of the common iliac artery. Relations.—Anterior.—The artery on each side is covered in front and internally by peritoneum, under which the corresponding ureter descends along the anterior border of the artery. The rectum crosses from the front to the inner side of the left artery, and the terminal part of the ileum bears the same relation to the right artery. Posterior to it are the internal iliac vein and the commencement of the conniiou ihac vein ; behind these is the lumbo-sacral cord and the sacrum. Lateral.—On its outer side the external iliac vein separates it from the psoas muscle Lateral sacral artery External iliac arterv External iliac vein Psoas muscle Hypogastric artery Deep circunjflex iliac artery Superior vesical artery Obturator vein Deep epigastric artery Rounil ligament Obturator nerve Obturator artery Oursal artery of clitoris Artery to corpus cavern osum Sympathetic cord J.ateral sacral artery Internal iliac vein Gluteal artery Sciatic artei-y Internal pudic artery Sacral plexus Fig. 569.—The IntkiiNxVL Iliac Ahtery and its Branches in the Fem^vxe. 1. Great .sacro-sciatic lig.iuieut. 2. Uterine artery 3. Vaginal artery. 4. Inferior lisemorrlioidal nerve. 5. Inferior hsemorrlioidal artery. 6. Dorsal nerve of clitoris. 7. Internal jmdio artery. S. Perineal nerve. 9. Superficial perineal artery. 10. Arterv to bulb. above, whilst liclow this is the obturator nerve, embedded in a mass of fat which intervenes between the internal iliac artery and the side wall of the pelvis. On its inner side it is crossed by some of the tributaries of the internal iliac vein, and is covered by peritoneum. Branches.—The internal iliac artery supplies the greater part of the pelvic wall and viscera, and its branches are also distributed to the buttock and thigh and to the external organs of generation. All the branches may be given off separately from a single undivided parent trunk, but as a rule they arise in two groups corresponding to the two divisions in which the artery under these circumstances appears to end.