THE BEANCHES OF THE PEIMITIVE DOESAL AOET^. 883 together with the dorsal roots of the second and first arches, and is continued forwards to the cerebrum by an outgrowth from the anterior end of the dorsal root of the first arch. The ventral root of the third arch becomes the common carotid artery. The dorsal root of the third arch disappears. On the right side the ventral root of the fourth arch forms the innominate artery, and the arch itself is converted into part of the subclavian artery, whilst the dorsal root disappears. On the left side the ventral root of the fourth arch forms the small portion of aorta which lies between the innominate and left common carotid arteries. The left fourth arch itself and its dorsal root form the arch of the aorta from the origin of the left carotid artery to the attachment of the ductus arteriosus. The ventral portion of the fifth arch on each side remains as the first part of the cor- responding pulmonary artery. The dorsal part disappears early on the right side, but on the left side it persists and remains patent up to birth as the ductus arteriosus. After birth it is obliterated and transformed into a fibrous cord. The fate of the primary caudal arches, their secondary successors, and that of the posterior ventral portions of the primitive aortee, has already been fully considered (p. 878). The Primitive Dorsal Aortj^—Formation of the Descending Aorta. Coincidently with the development of the cephalic aortic arches the anterior portions of the dorsal sections of the primitive aortfe are converted into the dorsal roots of the aortic arches. As already pointed out, certain parts of these disappear entirely, whilst other parts are utilised in the formation of the permanent vessels. Behind the fifth arches the two primitive dorsal aortfe remain separate as far back as the root of the foi'e-limb. To this extent the right vessel disappears, whilst the left remains and forms a portion of the descending aorta. From the roots of the fore-limbs backwards to the caudal arches the dorsal aortee fuse together, beneath the vertebral column, to form the remainder of the descending aorta. The Branches of the Primitive Dorsal Aort^. Each primitive dorsal aorta gives off from its dorsal surface a series of somatic seg- mental arteries, from its sides an irregular series of intermediate (visceral) branches, and from its ventral surface a group of segmental splanchnic branches to the walls of the alimentary canal see (Figs. 609 and 610). The somatic segmental arteries divide into ventral and dorsal branches which accom- pany the posterior and anterior primary branches of the spinal nerves respectively, and the ventral branches give off lateral offsets. The various branches of the somatic seg- mental vessels anastomose freely together. The splanchnic segmental arteries also anastomose freely together. Ultimately, from the somatic vessels and their branches and anastomoses are developed the vertebral, the basilar, and the spinal arteries, part of the right subclavian artery, the whole of the left subclavian artery, and their continuations in the fore-limbs, the intercostal and lumbar arteries, and the internal mammary and deep epigastric arteries ; whilst from the splanchic segmental arteries the majoiity of the blood-vessels which supply the alimentary canal are developed. The intermediate visceral arteries supply the organs derived from the inter- mediate cell mass, viz. the' suprarenal cajDsules, the kidney, and the ovaries or testicles ; but for a full account of the transformations which the various vessels and anastomoses undergo, reference must be made to the account of the morphology of the arteries. The Arteries of the Limbs. Little is known of the precise details of the development of the arteries of the limbs, but there is little doubt that they are formed almost entirely by jirolongations of or from somatic segmental arteries or their branches. The chief arterial stem of each upper extremity is represented by the subclavian, the axillary, the brachial, and the anterior interosseous arteries ; these vessels form a con- tinuous trunk which is developed, on the left side entirel}' and on the right side mainly, from the corresponding seventh somatic segmental branch of the primitive aorta, from its ventral branch, and from the latei-al offset of the latter. It is indeed the lateral offset of the ventral branch, growing outwards into the developing limb, which forms the prolongation of the stem. The root of the right stem vessel, constituted by the right subclavian artery from its