583 THE ANTEEIOE THORACIC NERVES. Thei-e is a more or less definite relation between the I'oots of this nerve and the parts of the serratus niagnus. The first part of the muscle is innervated by the fifth nerve alone ; the second part by the fifth and sixth, or the sixth alone ; the third part by the sixth and seventh, or the seventh nerve alone. The suprascapular nerve (ii. suprascapularis) arises from the back of the cord formed by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves in the posterior triangle of the neck. It occupies a position above the main cords of the brachial plexus, and courses downwards and outwards parallel to them towards the superioj: border of the scapula. It passes through the suprascapular foramen to reach the dorsum of the scapula. After supplying the supraspinatus muscle it winds round the great scapular notch in company with the suprascapular artery and terminates in the infraspinatus muscle. It also supplies articular branches to the back of the shoulder joint. Infra-clavicular Nerves.—The so-called infra-clavicular branches of the brachial plexus are distributed to the chest, shoulder, and arm. According to their origin they are divisible into two sets—an anterior set, derived from the outer and inner cords, and a posterior set, derived from the posterior cord. In their distribution the same division is maintained. The anterior nerves of distribution, springing from the outer and inner cords, supply generally the chest and the front of the limb; the posterior nerves, springing from the posterior cord, supply the shoulder and the back of the limb. Anterior Branches. Nerves from the outer cord. External anterior thoracic. Outer head of median. Musculo-cutaneous. Nerves from the inner cord. Internal anterior thoracic. Ulnar. Inner head of median. Internal cutaneous. Lesser internal cutaneous. Posterior Branches. Nerves from the Posterior Cord. Circumflex. Musculo-spiral. Three subscapular. Anterior Thoracic Nerves. The anterior thoracic nerves (nn. thoracicales anteriores) are two in number, external and internal. The external anterior thoracic nerve arises from the outer cord of the brachial plexus by three roots— from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves. The internal anterior thoracic nerve arises from the inner cord of the plexus, from the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves. Each courses downwards and forwards on either side of the axillary artery. A loop of communication is formed between them over the artery. They are finally dis- tributed to the pectoralis major and minor muscles (Fig. 430). The nerves are distributed to the pectoral muscles in the following way:—Two sets of branches from the external anterior thoracic nerve pierce the costo-coracoid membrane. The upper branches supply the clavicular jMi't of the pectoralis major ; the lower branches are distributed to the upper fibres of the sternal jwrtlon of the muscle. The upper branches come from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves ; the lower branches, from the fifth, sixth, and seventh nerves. The j^^'^toralis minor is pierced by two sets of nerves—the upper set is derived from the loop of communication between the external and internal anterior thoracic nerves over the axillary arterjr; the lower set is derived from the internal anterior thoracic nerve alone. These nerves supply the pectoralis minor muscle, FlO. 430.—DiAGBAM OF THE ORIGIN AND Distribution of the Nerves TO THE Pectoral Muscles. E. A.T, External anterior thoracic nerve ; I.A.T, Internal anterior thoracic nerve ; C.5, 6, 7, C.8, T.l, Nerves of the brachial plexus ; Art, Axillary artery ; Cl, Clavicle ; ScL, Sub- clavius muscle; P.Ml, Pectoralis minor, joined to subclavius by costo-coracoid membrane ; P.Ma, Pectoralis major.