THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 584 and, after piercing it, snpply the eternal part of the pectoralis majoi'. The lower nerve, in many cases, sends its branches to the pectoralis major round the lower border of the pectoralis minor, and it may supply on its way the axillary arclies, if present. These two branches are derived—the upper from the seventh, eighth cervical, and first thoracic Tnippziiu Clavicle (cut Coraco-claviciilar ligaments. Pectoralis iiiiiior Coracoid P™'^^''-'*/rijj^ ^ Coraco-acroiuial ligauiei l-^'j^^^^ Circiiiiiflex artei \ /f. Circumflex nervj. Pectoralis major Coraco-bracliialis Biceps I bllPRA-SCAPULAR MERVE Posterior cord of brachial PLEXUS Short subscapular nerve Long subscapular nerve Lower subscapular nerve » ^^SeiTatiis iiiaginis Oorsal scapular artery Subscapularis Teres major Latissinius dnrsi Internal I :('Taneocs branch OF musculo-spiral NERVE Triceps (long head) Nerve to inner head of TRICEPS (ulnar collate,ral) nerves; the lower from the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves. The Triceps pectoral muscles are thus both supjjlied (inner head) ^^^^ anterior thoracic nerves. The clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major are innervated by the fifth and sixth nerves; the stemial fibres, from above downwards, by the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical, and first thoracic nerves ;. and the pectoralis minor is supplied by the seventh and eighth cervical, and first thoracic nerves. MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NeRVE. The musculo cutaneous nerve (n. musculo-cutaneus) takes origin from the outer cord of the plexus, from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves (Fig. 431). The nerve to the coraco-brachialis muscle, arising from the seventh nerve, is usually associated with it. Separating from the oviter head of the median nerve, Fig. 431.-THE Posterior Wall op the Axilla and the^^^ musculo-cutaneous nerve lies at Fkont of the Arm (the biceps being divided). n , , .1 ^ i ■ ^■ nrst between the coraco-braclualis muscle and the axillary artery. It is then directed downwards between tlie two parts of tlie coraco-brachialis, and then between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles, to the bend of the elbow. In its course it may send a branch under the biceps to join the median nerve. It pierces the deep fascia over the front of the Musculo-cutaneous. NERVE Bracliiulis antic Musculo-spiral nerve' Brachio-radialisi Biceps (cut)- Extensor carpi radialis longior Posterior interosseous NERVE' Radial nerve- Supinator radii brevis. Flexor .profundus digitorum