THE VERTEBEAL COLUMN. 73 For descriptive purposes, the vertebral column is subdivided according to the regions through which it passes. Thus the vertebrte are described as cervical (vertebicE cervicales), dorsal or thoracic (vertebrte thoracales), lumbar (vertebrae lumbales), sacral (vertebr<e sacrales), and coccygeal (vertebrte caudales), according as they lie in the regions of the neck, back, loins, pelvis, and tail. The number of vertebrae met with in these regions is fairly constant, though, as will be hereafter pointed out, variations may occur in the number of the members of the different series. The vertebrae in man are thus apportioned—7 cervical, 12 dorsal, 5 lumbar, 5 sacral, and 4 or 5 coccygeal; the three former groups comprise the true or mov- able vertebrae, the two latter the false or fixed vertebrae. The vertebral formula may be thus expressed:— Movable or True Vertebrse. Cervical. Dorsal. Lumbar, 7 12 5 Fixed or False Vertebrae. Sacral. Coccygeal. 5 4 =33 Demi-facet for head of rib Body Facet for. tubercle of rib The vertebrse of which the column is built up, though displaying great diversity of characters in the regions above enumerated, yet preserve certain features in common. All possess a solid part, superior centrum or body (corpus vertebrae) ; articular process Pedicie all have articular processes by which they are joined to their fellows; most have muscular processes de- veloped in connexion with them; whilst the majority display a verte- bral or spinal foramen (foramen verte- brale) formed by the union of a bony arch (arcus vertebrae) with the body. These common characters may best be studied by selecting for descrip- tion an intermediate member of the series. For this purpose one of the middle or lower thoracic vertebrae may be chosen. A typical vertebra may be de- scribed as consisting of a body or centrum (corpus vertebrae) composed of a mass of spongy bone, more or ' less cylindrical in form. The size and shape of the body is liable to considerable variation according to the vertebra examined. The upper and lower surfaces of the body are very slightly concave from before backwards and from side to side, due to the thickening of the bone around its margins. In the recent con- dition these surfaces afford attach- ment for the intervertebral discs which are placed like pads between the bodies of the movable members of the series. The circumference of the body, formed as it is of more compact bone than the interior, is usually slightly concave from above downwards, though it becomes flat behind, where the body forms the anterior boundary of the spinal or vertebral foramen, at which point it is usually slightly concave from side to side. The vertical surfaces of the body are pierced here and there by foramina for the viewed from tlie riglit side.) Spinous process Facet for tubercle of rib Superior articular process Pedicle Demi-facet for head of rib Figs. 54, 55.—Fifth Thoeacio Vertebka. (As viewed from above.)