576 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. from the second only). It extends backwards beneath the sterno-niastoid, and then upwards along its posterior border. Piercing the deep fascia near tlie apex of the posterior triangle, it divides into auricular, mastoid, and occipital branches, and supplies small cervical branches to the upper part of the neck. The auricular branch supplies the skin of the deep surface of the pinna; the mastoid and occipital branches supply the scalp. The nerve communicates on the scalp with the great occipital and great auricular nerves, and with the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve. The great auricular nerve (n. auri- cularis magnus) is the largest of the cutaneous branches. It arises from the second and third cervical nerves (or, more rarely, from the third alone). Winding round the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, it courses vertically upwards towards the ear. In this course it crosses the sterno- mastoid muscle obliquely and is covered by the platysma myoides. Before arriving at the ear it subdivides into mastoid, auricular, and facial branches. The mastoid branches ascend over the mastoid process and supply the skin of the scalp behind the ear, communicat- ing with the small occipital and pos- terior auricular nerves. The auricular branches ascend to the ear and supply the lower part of the pinna on both aspects; they communicate with the same nerves. The facial branches, pass- ing over the angle of the jaw and through the substance of the parotid gland, supply the skin of the cheek over the lower part of the masseter muscle and the parotid gland. They communicate with bi^anches of the facial nerve in the parotid gland. The superficial cervical nerve (n. cu- taneus colli) arises from the second and third cervical nerves. It winds round the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid - muscle, and crosses the muscle to reach the anterior triangle, under cover of the platysma myoides muscle and the external jugular vein. It divides near the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle into upper and lower l>ranches, which are distributed through the platysma myoides to the skin covering the anterior triangle of the neck. The upper branches communicate freely beneath the platysma myoides with the infra-mandibular branch of the facial nerve. Descending (supra-clavicular) Branches.—By the union of two roots derived from the third and fourth cervical nerves a considerable trunk is formed, which extends oliliquely downwards from under cover of the sterno-mastoid muscle through the lower part of the posterior triangle of the neck. It subdivides into radiating branches sternal, clavicular, and acromial—which pierce the deep fascia of the neck above the clavicle, and are distributed to the skin of the lower part of the side of the neck, the front of the chest, and the shoulder. The sternal branches (rami supra- sternales) are the smallest. Passing over the inner end of the clavicle, they supply the skin of the neck and chest as far down as the lower border of the manubrium. Fig. 426.—Distribution of Cutaneous Nerves to THE Head and Neck. Ophth, Ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve ; ST, Supra- trochlear branch ; S.O, Supra-orbital branch ; I.T, lufra-trochlear branch ; L, Lachrymal branch ; N, External nasal branch ; Sup. Max, Siiperior maxillary division ; T, Temporal branch ; M, Malar branch ; I.O, Infra-orbital branch ; luf.Max, Inferior maxillary division ; A.T. Auriculo-temporal branch ; B, Buccal branch ; M, Mental branch ; C.2, 3, Branches of the second and third cervical nerves ; G.O, Great occipital nerve ; S.O, Small occipital nerve ; G.A, Great auricular nerve ; S.C, Superficial cervical nerve ; C.3, Least occipital nerve ; 4, 5, 6, Posterior primary divisions of 4th, 5th, and 6th cervical nerves.