THE CiECUM AND APPENDIX. 1029 breadth as j inch (6 mm., Berry). On the other liand, it has been found as long as 9 inches (2;:)0 mm.), and as short as | inch (18 mm.). Even its absence lias been recorded (Fawcett). Its hcmen or cavity is variable in its development, and is found to be totally or partially occluded in at least one-fourth of all adult and old bodies examined. This is looked upon as a sign of degeneracy in the process, which is by many considered to be undergoing a gradual obliteration in the human species. It opens into the cavity of the caecum on its inner, or inner and posterior aspect (Fig. 693), at a point 1 to IJ inches (2-5 to 3'8 cm.) below, and somewhat behind the ileo-cseca! orifice. These are the relative positions of the two orifices, as seen from the interior of the caecum; viewed from tlie exterior, the base of the appendix is witliin | inch of the lower border of the ileum. This apparent difference is due to tlie fact that tlie ileum adheres to the inner side of the ctecum for a distance of nearly 1 inch before it opens into it. Sometimes the orifice of the appendix has a crescentic fold or valve (valvula processus vermiformis) placed at its upper border; but it is prol)a]:)ly of very little Fio. 696.—The Blood Supply op the Caecum and Vermifor.m Appendix. Tlie illustration to the left gives a front view, in that to the right the caecum is viewed from hehiml. In the latter the artery of the appendix, and the three tajnia coli springing from the base of the a]ipeudix, should be specially noted (modified from Jonnesco). functional importance when present, for the aperture of the appendix is usually so small that its cavity is not likely to be invaded by the contents of the caecum. The vermiform process is completely covered by peritoneum, and has a con- siderable mesentery, the oneso-a/ppendix (mesenteriohim processus vermiformis), which extends to its tip as a rule, and connects the process to the under surface of that part of the mesentery proper which goes to the lower end of the ileum. The appendix is relatively, to tlie rest of the large intestine, longer in the child at hirth than in the adult, the 23i'oportion being about 1 to 16 or 17 at birth and 1 to 19 or 20 in the adult. (The difference is certainly not as great as stated by Ribbert, who makes the ^^roportion 1 to 10 at Ijirth and 1 to 20 in the adult.) The process attains its greatest length and diameter during adult and middle age, and atrophies slowly after that time. It is said to be slightly longer in the male tlian in the female. Total occlusion of its cavity is found in 3 or 4 per cent of bodies ; it is then converted into a fibrous cord. Partial occlusion is present in 25 jjer cent of all cases, and in more than 50 per cent of those over 60 years old, whilst it is unknown in the child. This frequency of occlusion, the physiological atrojihy which takes place after middle life, the great variations in length, and other signs of instability, have been considered to jjoint to the retrogressive character of the appendix. A vermiform process is found only in man, the higher apes, and the womljat, although in certain rodents a somewhat similar arrangement exists. In carnivorous animals the crecum is very slightly developed ; in herbivorous animals (with a simple stomach) it is, as a rule, extremely large. It has been suggested that the vermiform process in man is the degenerated remains of tlie hevljivorous caecum, which has been rejjlaced by the carnivorous foruL Another and perhaps more probable view regards the appendix as a lymphoid organ, having the same functions as Peyer's patches, and like these untlergoing degeneration after middle life (Berry).