THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 342 the syno\T.al membrane of the knee-joint, lies beneath its tendon in front of the lower end of the shaft of the femur. The vastus externus (m. vastus lateralis) has an origin, partly fleshy, partly membranous, (1) from the shaft of the femur, from the anterior tubercle, along the lower border of the great trochanter, the gluteal ridge, and the upper half of the linea aspera; and (2) from the fascia lata and external intermuscular septum. It forms a thick broad muscle directed downwards and forwards, and is inserted into (1) the outer border of the tendon of the rectus femoris, (2) the upper and outer border of the patella, and (3) the capsule of the knee-joint, and the A: Addu( Great .sciatic nerve Fig. 252.—Transverse Section of the Thigh (Hunter's Canal). external lateral ligament of the patella. The vastus externus is covered super- ficially by the fascia lata and the ilio-tibial band. A bursa intervenes between it and the membranous insertion of the gluteus maximus: at its inner border is the rectus femoris; and along its outer border, but on a deeper level, is the crureus, which is also to a large extent concealed by the muscle. Between the vastus externus and crureus is the descending branch of the external circumflex artery. The vastus internus (m. vastus medialis) is larger than the vastus externus and has a more extensive origin, from (1) the shaft of the femur, from the anterior tubercle, spiral line, linea aspera, and the upper two-thirds of the line leading from the linea aspera to the internal condyle of the femur; (2) the membranous expansion of the fascia lata which lies beneath the sartorius and forms the roof of Hunter's canal; and (3) the internal intermuscular septum and tendon of the adductor magnus. From its origin the muscle is directed downwards and outwards towards the knee; it is inserted into (1) the inner border of the rectus tendon, (2) the upper and inner border of the patella, and (3) the capsule of the knee-joint and the internal lateral ligament of the patella. The vastus internus is superficial except at its origin, which is concealed by the sartorius and femoral vessels. Along its outer side are the rectus and crureus; the muscle conceals tlie inner side of the shaft of the femur and the crureus, with which it is closely incorporated in its lower two-thirds. The crureus muscle (m. vastus intermedins) arises (1) from the upper two-thirds of the shaft of the femur on the anterior and external surfaces, (2) from the lower