THE SKIN OK INTEGUMENT. 732 The hair follicle (folliculus pili) consists of an oblique or curved—the latter in curly hairs—invagination of the epidermis and corium, and, in the case of large hairs, extends into the subcutaneous tissue (Fig. 536); some little distance below its orifice, the ducts of the sebaceous glands open into it. The portion of the follicle derived from the corium (dermic coat) consists of a fibrous sheath of external longi- tudinal and internal circular connective tissue fibres, the latter being lined by a hyaline layer directly continuous with the basement membrane of the corium. The parts of the follicle derived from the epidermis are named the inner and outer root sheaths. Below the orifices of the sebaceous gland ducts the outer root sheath is formed by the stratum germinativum and stratum mucosum, while above them all the epidermal strata contribute to it. The inner root sheath surrounds the cuticle Fig. 541.—Transverse Section of Hair Follicle with contained Hair (highly magnified). of the hair, and consists from without inwards of—(a) Henle's layer, a single stratum of nucleated, cubical cells ; (h) Huxley's layer, a single or double layer of polyhedral nucleated cells; and (c) a delicate cuticle, consisting of a single layer of flattened imbricated cells, with atrophied nuclei. The bottom of the hair folhcle is indented by a vascular papilla (papilla pili), derived from the corium and capped by the bulb (bulbus pili) or expanded part of the hair root. The cells of the bulb are continuous with those of the outer root sheath, and form the different parts of the hair, as well as its inner root sheath. The vessels form capillary loops in the papilla of the hair, and send twigs into the outer layer of its fibrous sheath; the inner and outer root sheaths and the different parts of the hair are non-vascular. The nerves terminate in longitudinal and annular fibrils below the level of the sebaceous glands and outside the hyaline layer of the follicle. Sebaceous g^lands (glandulse sebaceae) exist wherever there are hairs, and their ducts open into the superficial part of the hair follicles (Fig. 536); the number of glands associated with each follicle varies from one to four. On the labia minora and mammary areolae they open on the surface of the skin independently of hair follicles, and in the latter situation undergo great enlargement during pregnancy. The deep extremity of each gland expands into a cluster of oval or flask-shaped alveoli, which are surrounded by a basement membrane and filled with polyhedral cells containing oil droplets. By the breaking down of the superficial cells, their oily contents are liberated as the sehum cutaneum and discharged into the hair Fibrous sheath / Basement mem' \ Derived from ibraiie / the corium -4/ stratum germinativum |^ Outer root , btratum mucosum ) sheath