949 THE PALATE AND ISTHMUS FAUCIUM. generally, whilst in its anterior part, constitnte almost its entire thickness. Its upjJer surface, which is convex, forms a coiitinuation l)ackwards downwards of the floor of the nasal fossfe (Fig. 639), and is covered by a longation of the nasal mucous mem- where muscular filires' are wanting, they and pro- f jialate lihiltrum brane—ciliated in its upper half or more. The under stirface is arched, and prolongs backwards the roof of the mouth, towards the cavity of which it looks. In front the soft palate is attached to the posterior edge of tlie hard palate. Laterally it blends witli the side wall of the pharynx along a very oblique line as it slopes downwards and backwards (Fig. 639). Its posterior margin is thin and free : it presents in the middle line an elongated conical projection, the uvula (Fig. 638), and at each side of this a sharp concave edge which, arching out, passes downwards and slightly backwards into the posterior palatine arch (posterior pillar of fauces). From the under surface of the soft palate, 7 or 8 lum. further for- wards, and near the base of the uvula, spring another Y)air of ridges, the anterior palatine arches (anterior pillars of fauces), which pass downwards and slightly forward to the sides of the tongue (Fig. 638). The anterior part of the soft palate for- 8 or 10 mm. (-^ inch) contains practically no muscular fibres ; it is composed of the palatine aponeurosis, covered by an extremely thick hiyer of glands on the under surface and by mucous membrane on both surfaces. This anterior portion is much less movable tlian the rest of the soft palate, and forms a relatively horizontal continuation back- wards of the hard palate, stretching across between the two internal pterygoid plates. Jt is upon this portion chiefly that the tensor palati acts. The posterior and larger part contains muscular fibres in abundance, slopes strongly downwards, and is freely movable, being the portion upon which the remaining palatine muscles act. The palatine aponeurosis, which is confined to the anterior part of the soft palate, is in the form of a thin flat sheet, constituting, as it were, a kind of common tendon for the palatine muscles which are attached to (or blended with) its posterior margin; whilst its anterior margin is united to the posterior edge of the palate bone. With the exception of the aponeurosis of the tensor palati which passes into its lateral part, the muscles do not, as a rule, reach further forwards than to within 8 or 10 mm. of the posterior edge of the hard palate. The uvula, already referred to, is a conical projection, very variable in length, which is continued downwards and backwards from the middle of the soft palate. It is racemose glands and connective tissue covered hj mucous slender prolongation of the azygos uvuhe muscle in its !i. t)88.—Oi'EN Mouth suowixc Palate and Tonsils. also shows the two palatine arches, and the pharyngeal isthmus through which tlie iiaso-pliarynx above com- municates with tile oral portion of the pharynx below. composed chiefly of a mass of membrane, and containing a tipper part. Tlie mucous membrane of the palate, \\'liicli is covered Ijy stratified squamous epithelium, is firmer and moi'e closely adherent in front, near the rugoe, than behind, near the soft palate. Mucous glands, tlie orifices of wliicli can he seen as dots with the naked eye, are extremely abundant in tlie soft palate, and in the posterior half of the hard palate, except near the raphe. They are wanting in the anterior part of tlie palate, wliere the mucous membrane is particularly dense. • The palatine rugse (which correspond to more strongly developed ridges in carnivora, etc.) are very well marked in the child at birth, although, perhaps, relatively less distinct in the foetus of five or six months; in old age tlicy become more or less oliliterated and irregular. At birth, also, and in the foetus, the incisive ]iad at the anterior end of the raphe is continued over the edge of the gum into the frenidum of the upper li]).