266 THE ARTICULATIONS OR JOINTS. consists of similarly-disposed, but not so strong, oblique fibres situated on the posterior aspect of the articulation. A fibro-cartilaginous meniscus (discus articularis, Fig. 207) divides the joint cavity into two compartments. It is nearly circular in shape, and adapts itself to the articular surfaces between which it Hes. It is thickest at the circumference and thinnest at the centre, where it occasionally presents a perforation, thereby permitting the two synovial cavities to intercommunicate. By its circumference it is in contact with, and adherent to, the surrounding capsule, but its upper margin is attached to the apex of the articular surface of the clavicle, while by its lower margin it is fixed to the sternal end of the first costal cartilage. Two accessory ligaments are associated with this joint, viz. the interclavicular and the rhomboid. The interclavicular ligament (Fig. 207) is a structure of considerable strength, forming a l)road band of fibrous tissue which is attached to the superior rounded angle or apex of the sternal end of the clavicle as well as to the adjacent margins of the articular surface. Its fibres pass across the interclavicular notch to become attached to corresponding parts of the opposite clavicle, but in their course they dip down into the supra-sternal notch, in which many of them are fixed to the sternum. In this way their presence neither bridges nor obliterates the notch between the two clavicles, and the ligament really becomes a superior sterno-clavicular ligament for each joint. The rhomboid ligament (lig. costo-claviculare, Fig. 207) consists of short, strong fibres which are attached inferiorly to the upper surface of the first costal cartilage. They pass obhquely upwards and outwards to a rough impression situated on the lower aspect of the sternal end of the clavicle, and are distinct from the capsular ligament. Occasionally a bursa is found in the interior of this ligament. As a rule, there are two synovial membranes lining the two joint cavities (Fig. 207), separated from each other by the interarticular meniscus. Sometimes, however, the two membranes establish continuity through a perforation in the meniscus. The Acromio-clavicular or Scapulo-clavicular Joint. The acromio - clavicular joint (articulatio acromio - clavicularis) is another instance of an arthrodial diarthrosis. It is situated between the acromial end of the clavicle and the inner aspect of the acromion process of the scapula. Each articular surface is an oval, flattened facet, covered by fibro-cartilage. The ligaments which surround this small joint form a complete capsule (capsula articularis), of which the upper and lower parts are specially strong, and are therefore named the superior and inferior acromio-clavicular ligaments (Fig. 209). These consist of short fibres passing between the adjacent rough margins of the two bones in the positions indicated by their names. A meniscus (discus articularis), which is nearly always incomplete, and may occasionally be wanting, is usually found within the joint cavity, where it lies obliquely, with its upper margin farther from the mesial plane than its lower margin, and having its borders attached to the surrounding capsule. Frequently the meniscus is wedge-shaped, with its base directed upwards and its apex free. A synovial membrane is found forming either a single or a double sac, according to the condition of the meniscus. Complete division of the joint cavity, however, is rare. Ligamentum Coraco-claviculare.—Accessory to this articulation there is the strong coraco-clavicular ligament which binds the acromial end of the clavicle to the coracoid process of the scapula. It is readily divisible into two parts, viz. the conoid and trapezoid ligaments. The conoid ligament (Fig. 209) is situated internal to and slightly behind the trapezoid. It is narrow and pointed at its inferior end, by which it is attached to the upper aspect of the coracoid process, in close proximity to the supra-scapular notch. Its upper end widens out in the manner expressed by its name, and is attached to the conoid tubercle of the clavicle. Tlie trapezoid ligament (Fig. 209) is attached inferiorly to the upper surface of the posterior half of the coracoid process, external and anterior to the attachment of