358 THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. Plantaris MUSCLE (cut) SEMIMEMnKANOSlit TENDON (cut) Tiliial nerve ami popliteal vesse Plantaris tendon (eut) muscle of the leg), and the plautaris; and (2) a deep set, consisting of the popliteus, flexor longus digitorum, tibialis posticus, and flexor longus hallucis. The gastrocnemius arises by two heads, inner and outer, by means of strong tendons (prolonged over the surface of the muscle) from the lateral surface of each condyle of the femur and from the back of the capsule of the knee-joint. A bursa lies beneath each tendon of origin. Each fleshy belly of the muscle is inserted into a broad membranous tendon, pro- longed upwards on its deep surface for some distance. The inner head is the larger. The tendo Achillis is formed by the union of the two membranous inser- tions of the bellies of the gastrocnemius. Prolonged upwards beneath the separ- ate bellies, the tendon forms a broad membranous band connecting together the lower parts of the two belUes. Narrowing gradually, and becoming thicker in the lower half of the leg, the tendon is finally inserted into the lower half of the posterior surface of the OS calcis. A bursa lies beneath the tendon at its insertion. The tendo Achillis also affords insertion to the soleus and (sometimes) the plantaris muscles. The gastrocnemius is superficial except at its origin. The inner head is concealed by the semitendinosus and semimembranosus muscles, and covers partially the lower part of the popliteal vessels and the tibial nerve. It forms part of the inner boundary of the popliteal space. The outer head is concealed partially by the biceps tendon and the peroneal nerve, and covers the plantaris muscle, the popliteal vessels, and the tibial nerve. It forms part of the outer boundary of the popliteal space. The two bellies are for the most part in close contact, the ex- ternal saphenous vein occupying the interval between them. The tendo Achillis in the lower half of the leg partially conceals the soleus and the deeper muscles. The plantaris tendon lies along its inner border. The plantaris arises from the ex- ternal supra-condyloid ridge of the femur for about an inch at its lower end, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. It forms a narrow fleshy slip which ends in a tendon extending down the back of the leg, to be inserted into the tuberosity of the os calcis, or the tendo Achilhs, or the internal annular hgament. The tendon of the muscle is capable of considerable lateral extension. The plantaris lies between the outer head of the gastrocnemius and the soleus, and crosses the popliteal vessels and the tibial nerve. In the lower half of the leg its tendon lies along the inner border of the tendo Achillis. Tlie muscle is not always present. The soleus has a triple origin: (1) from the posterior surface of the head and the shaft of the fibula in its upper third; (2) from a fibrous arch stretching over Tendo Achillh Internal annular ligament Peroneus longus ernal anunlar lit Fig. 2f)3.—The Soleus Muscle.