' THE LI VEIL 1061 (1) The "uncovered area" of the right lobe (Fig. 716) is a considerable portion of the back of the right lobe—varying from 1^ to 2| inches (3"7 to 6'2 cm.) in width, and from 3 to 4 inches (7'5 to 10 cm.) in transverse measurement—which corre- sponds to the interval between the two layers of the coronary ligament, and is devoitl of peritoneum. Over this uncovered portion, which looks more inwards than backwards, the liver and diaphragm are in direct contact, and are united by areolar tissue; here too is established a communication by small veins between the portal circulation of the liver alid the systemic circulation of the diaphragm. (2) 'Suprarenal Impression.—On the "uncovered area," immediately to the right of (and l)ehin(l) the vena cava, is a triangular impression (impressio supra- renalis. Fig. 716), produced l)y the suprarenal ])ody, which, projecting upwards from the top of the right kidney, becomes wedged in Ijetween the diaphragm and liver. (3) Fossa of the Vena Cava (fossa venee cavae).—At the left extremity of the " uncovered area" the inferior vena cava lies vertically, embedded in a fossa Sujiprior area of parietal surface Fig. 715.—The Liver from the front, showing the superior, right, and anterior areas of the parietal surface. of the liver substance, between the Spigelian lobe on the left and the adjacent part of the uncovered area on the right, l:)oth f)f which project over the sides of the cava, almost hiding it from view (Fig. 716); sometimes they actually meet and form a pons hepatis across the back of the vein. (4) Spigelian Lobe.—-To the left of the fossa of the cava lies the Spigelian lobe (lobus caudatus), a prominent ol)long mass (Fig. 716), which is placed vertically on the back of the liver, between the fissure of the ductus venosus on the left and the fossa of the vena cava on the right—the former marking it off from the left lolje, the latter from the " uncovered area " of the right lobe. The top of the small sac of peritoneum separates the back of the Spigelian lobe from the diaphragm, which latter, in turn, separates it from the aorta just before that vessel enters the abdomen. The upper end of the Sjjigeliiui lolje is separated from the superior area of the parietal surface by the meeting of the vena cava and the fissure of the ductus venosus in front of it. Its lower end is free and ])roiiiiuent, and veaclics In the \ isceial surface, where it usually ])resenls a notcli or fissure (in wliich tlie liejiatic artery lies, particularly in Ihe faitus), wliich marks off a larger and more proiuineut left part (the tuherciiluin papillare) pnijecliiig downwards liehiiid llie