THE TEETH. 971 proximal and distal Buvfaces are not in transverse ljut in ol>lique planes, sloping strongly liack- wards and inwards, and converging somewhat internally. A knowledge of this is useful in determining the side to -which an upper molar belongs, as is the fact that the anterior labial root is broader than the posterior (Fig. 654). As regards the nnmher of cm]j» 652):—The tirst upper molar has four cusps in ])ractically all skulls (99 per cent); occasionally, indeed, another, but very rudimentary, cusp is present on the lingual side of the antero-internal ('jiroximo-lingual) cusp. The second molar has either three or four in an almost equal proportion of Europeans, Init more frequently four taking the teeth of all nations together. (According to Topinard, four cus]is are present in 66 per cent of all races, and in 58 jjer cent of European, Semitic, and Egyptian skulls ; according to Zuckerkandl, in 73-5 per cent of the lower races and 45-6 jier cent of Europeans). The third upper molar has three cusps much more frequently than four amongst Europeans (four cusps only in 36 per cent, although it has four cusps more frequently in certain lower races). It should be remarked that, while there are practically always four cusps in tlie first molar, still there is a tendency to the disappearance uf the postero-internal (disto-lingual) cusp, ^\•hich tendency grows more pronounced as we ])ass baclcAvards to the second and third molars. The other cusps are practically constant. The three roots of the upper molars (Figs. 650, 651, and 654) are a large inner or palatal, sub-cylindrical in shape, and two external or labial roots, smaller and flattened from before backwards. The ])alatal fang, which is placed opposite the posterior labial root, is often united to one of the others. Tlie lower part (jf the antriim of Highmore generally extends down between the ]ialatal and the two labial fangs (Fig. 637, p. 946), l)ut the latter project on its floor more frequently than the palatal root. In the wisdom tooth tlie three roots are frequently more or less united into a single conical process (Fig. 654). Lower Molars. — The crowns are more massive than those of the upper molars, and are elongated antero-pos- teriorly (Fig. 653). A crucial groove separates the four chief cusps from one another; this bifurcates liehind to en- close the fifth cusp, which lies slightly to the outer side of the middle of the tooth. The number of c iisps present in the lower molars is as follows:—The first has \isually five cusps (62 per cent of all races, 61 per cent of Europeans); the second has four cusps, as a rule (five cusps in only 24 per cent of all skulls); the lower wisdom tooth has four cusps a little more frequently than five (five in 46 per cent of all skulls), but like tlie upper wisdom tooth it is extremely variable. The roots of the lower molars (Fig. 650), two in number, are flattened from before backwards, and very wide, but one (Fig. 654). two are united. Fig. 654.—Hori^^ostal Sections through both the Upper AND Lower Jaws to sliow the roots of the teeth. The sections were carried througli the bones a short distance from the edge of their alveolar borders. The upper figure shows the upper teeth, the lower figure the 16wer teeth. Note tlie flattened roots of tlie lower incisors, tlie two root canals in the anterior root of each lower molar, and the confluence of tlie three roots of the upper wisdom teeth. The anterior of these has two root canals ; the posterior The wisdom tooth has commonly two roots like its fellows ; occasionally the In determining the side to which a lower molar belongs, it should be remembered that the lower jjart of the root is generally curved Itackwards, and also that the Ijlunter margin of the crown (see above) and the fifth eusji, if ])resent, are on the outer side. Arrangement of the Teeth in the Jaws.—The teeth are arranged in each jaw in a curved row—the dental arch (arcns den talis)—of approximately a semi-oval form (Figs. 652 and 653). The curve formed by the upper teeth, however, is wider titan that formed by the lower set, so that when the two are brought in contact the upper incisors and canines overlap their fellows in front, and the outer cusps of the upper premolars and molars overlap the corresponding cusps of the lower teeth (Fig. 637, p. 946). It will also be seen that, as a rule, the teeth in one jaw are not placed exactly opposite their fellows, but rather opposite the interval between two teeth, in the other jaw (Fig. 655). This arrangement is brought about largely by the great widtli of the upper central incisors as compared with