634 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. nerves, which arise from (2) the olfactory bulb. This again is connected by (3) the olfactory tract with the brain, to wliicli it is attached by (4) two roots (Fig. 452). The anatomy of the roots, tract, and Imlb of the olfactory nerve are described elsewhere (pp. 528 and 545). The olfactory nerves, abont twenty in number, arise from the under surface of the olfactory bulb. The fibres are non-medulla ted. Piercing the cribriform plate -^^ ' >lfact.ory nerves \ Superior nasal nerve I Inferior nasal nerve Branches / of nasal /- Kk;. iNNKHVATION OP THE NaSAI. CaVITV. of tjie etlimoid bone, enveloped in sheaths of dura mater, they are distributed in the nasal cavity as the nerves of smell. The fibres form fine plexuses on the upper portion of the nasal septum, and to a less extent over the outer wall of the nose. TirE Second ok Optic Nerve. The optic nerve (u. opticus) arises from tlie brain by means of the optic tract (Fig. 452). This takes origin from the external and internal geniculate bodies, situated on the under surface of the optic thalamus at its posterior end, and also from the brachium of the upper of the two corpora quadri- gemina {vide pp. 510 and 591). The optic tract reaches the base of the brain in the interval lietweeu the crus cerebri and the hippocampal convolution of the temporal lobe. The two optic tracts converge in front of the inter-peduncular space, internal to the anterior perforated spot and the termination of the internal carotid artery, to form the optic chiasma or commissure. This adheres to the under surface of the tioor of the third ventricle in front of the tuber cinereum, and gives rise at each end to the optic nerve. The optic nerve, directed outwards and forward, pierces the dura mater, and passes from the cranial cavity into the orbit through the optic foramen in company with the ophthalmic artery. In the orbit the nerve is inibedded in the fat behind the eye-ball, and is surrounded by the ocular muscles. It is connected with the eyeball at a point one-eighth of an inch on the inner side of the axis of the eyeball. After piercing the fibrous and vascular coats, the nerve spreads out at the optic disc to form the innermost layer of the retina. In the orbit the nerve ¥ja. 454.—UiAQRAM ok the Central C'onnkxiox.s OF THE Optic Nerve and Optic Tract.