488 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. connexion of the fascicnlus solitarins witli the medulla is very loose, and it may be regarded as being the equivalent in this part of the neural tube of the oval bundle of longitudinal fibres whicii, in the early cord, constitutes the first stage of the column of Burdach. Throughout the further stages of development the fasciculus solitarius indicates in a sufficiently clear manner the point of junction between the alar and basal laminae. Very soon it becomes covered over by parts developed on its ventral aspect, and it ultimately comes to lie deeply in the substance of the medidla. This change in the position of the fasciculus solitarius with reference to the surface is asso- ciated with a striking developmental process which leads to certain remarkable results, and which is termed the formation of the rhombic lip of His (Fig. 361, B and C). Before the alar lamina falls outwards, while it still stands erect and its inner surface faces the corresponding surface of the opposite lamina, its dorsal edge is folded outwards and becomes fused with the outer surface of the remaining portion of the alar lamina. This is the rhombic lip, and, when the fusion is complete, a multitude of neuroblasts take form within it and migrate in a forward and inwards direction into the ventral parts of the alar and basal lamina;. The mid-venti-al lamina—which consists of spongioblastic cells alone and which forms a narrow partition between the two basal laminae—is reached on either side by the axons of many of these migrating cells. Whilst acting as an impassable barrier to the neuroblasts, this spongioblastic septum gives free passage from one side to the other to their axons, and a decussation of arcuate fibres in the mesial plane results. In this way the raphe of the medulla is formed. The process is very similar to that which takes place in the course of the formation of the anterior commissure of the cord, of which the raphe may be regarded as the equivalent in the medulla. The development of the inferior olivary nucleus and of its two accessory parts is like- wise closely connected with the migration of the neuroblasts from the region of the rhombic lip. Many of these cells collect together so as to form a nuclear lamella, which afterwards assumes its characteristic crumpled form. As the neuroblasts of the rhombic lip stream inwards they pass both on the dorsal and the ventral aspects of the fasciculus solitarius, which thus comes to be covered over and separated from the surface. The spinal root of the trigeminal nerve, like the fasciculus solitarius, is also, in the first instance, throughout its entire course on the surface of the medulla, and its change of position in the greater part of its course within the pons and medulla is due to the subsequent development of those parts which cover it over. The importance of the rhombic lip in the development of the medulla will be better appreciated if we enumei'ate the parts which spring from it: (1) the inferior olivary nuclei ; (2) the cuneate nucleus ; (3) the substantia gelatinosa Rolandi; (4) the arcuate nucleus ; (5) the internal arcuate fibres ; (6) the olivary system of fil>res ; (7) the restiform body. Tlie p3"ramidal tracts which come down from the cerebral cortex are late in making their appearance in the medulla. The formatio reticularis precedes them in development. They appear in the fourth month of foetal life, and as they are developed the antero- median furrow between them takes form on the ventral aspect of the medulla. His has pointed out that the earliest-formed part of the medulla is the floor of the fourth ventricle, and that the other parts, speaking generally, are added in succession as we pass towards the surface. "The oldest layer of the medulla is"the floor of the fourth ventricle with its nuclei. It is followed, in the first instance, by the reticular formation, and afterwards by the layer containing the olivary and other nuclei. Last of all come the pyramids and the outer (superficial) arcuate fibres " (His). Pons Varolii.—The information which we possess at the present moment regarding tiie development of the pons Varolii is somewhat deficient; but there is little doubt that the course pursued is, in general, very similar to that which has been described for the medulla. It has been seen to be composed of parts which are in a great measure equivalent to those met with in the medulla, the formatio reticularis of the latter passing into the tegmental substance in the former, while the pyramids and arcuate nuclei and anterior superhcial arcuate fibres of the medulla are represented by the large ventral part of the pons. Further, as His points out, similar relations between the chronological and local succession of layers may be recognised. Thus the primitive position of the motor nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, and also of its spinal root, is a superficial one, and it is only by a later process of development that the nucleus jjontis and the thick layer of transverse and longitudinal fibres are formed. Cerebellum.—The following account of the development of the cerebellum is framed largely upon the information supplied in an excellent paper on the subject by Dr. Walther Kiuthan.