THE SUPEEFICIAL VEINS OF THE LOWEE EXTEEMITY. 855 course the vein lies anterior to the obturator nerve. It is usually provided with one bicuspid valve, but sometimes there are two. Its tributaries correspond to the branches of the external iliac artery; thus the deep circumflex iliac (v. circumflex ilium profunda) and deep epigastric (v. epigastrica inferior) veins open into it close to its origin, wlailst in addition it frequently receives the pubic vein. The pubic vein forms a communication between the obturator vein and the external iliac vein. It varies in size, and may form the main termination of the obturator vein from which it arises. Commencing in the obturator foramen, it ascends at the side of the pubic branch of the deep epigastric artery, and reaches the external iliac vein. The Superficial Veins of the Lower Extremity. The superficial veins of the lower extremity terminate in two trunks, one of which, the external or short saphenous vein, passes from the foot to the popliteal space; whilst the other, the internal or long saphenous vein, extends from the foot to the groin. The superficial veins of the sole of the foot form a fine plexus, immediately beneath the skin, from which anterior and lateral efferents pass. The anterior efferents terminate in a transverse arch which lies in the furrow at the roots of the toes, and the lateral efferents pass round the sides of the foot to the internal or external saphenou.s veins. The transverse arch also receives small plantar digital veins from the toes, and it gives off interdigital efferent branches to the dorsal venous arch. The superficial veins on the dorsal aspect of each toe unite together to form two dorsal digital veins (v. digitales pedis dorsales) which run along the borders of the dorsal surface. The dorsal digital veins of the adjacent borders of the interdigital clefts unite, at the apices of the clefts, to form four dorsal interdigital veins which terminate in the dorsal venous arch. The dorsal digital vein from the inner side of the great toe ends in the long saphenous vein, and that from the outer side of the little toe terminates in the short saphenous vein. The dorsal venous arch (arcus venosus dorsalis pedis) lies in the sub- cutaneous tissue, between the skin and the branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, opposite the lower parts of the shafts of the metatarsal bones. It ends internally by uniting with the inner dorsal digital vein of the great toe to form the long saphenous vein, and externally by joining the outer dorsal digital vein of the little toe to form the short saphenous vein. The dorsal venous arch receives the dorsal interdigital veins and interdigital efferents from the plantar transverse arch in front, and numerous tributaries from the dorsum of the foot, which anastomose freely together, forming a wide-meshed dorsal venous plexus, open into it behind. The internal or long saphenous vein (v. saphena magna) is formed by the union of the inner extremity of the dorsal venous arch with the inner dorsal digital vein of the great toe. It passes upwards in front of the internal malleolus, crosses the inner surface of the lower part of the shaft of the tibia, and ascends immediately behind the iiiternal border of that bone to the knee, where it lies just behind the internal condyle of the femur; continuing upwards, with an inclination forwards and outwards, it gains the upper part of Scarpa's triangle, where it perforates the cribriform fascia and the femoral sheath to reach its ter- mination in the femoral vein. In the foot and leg it is accompanied by the long saphenous nerve, and for a short distance below the knee by the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery. In the thigh, branches of the internal cutaneous nerve lie in close relation with it. It contains from eight to twenty bicuspid valves. Tributaries.—It communicates freely through the deep fascia with the dee]) inter- muscular veins. In the foot it receives tributaries from the inner part of the sole and from the dorsal venous plexus. As it ascends in the leg it is joined by tributaries from the dorsum of the foot, the inner side and back of the heel, the front of the leg and the back of the calf, and it anastomoses freely with the short saphenous vein. In the thigh it receives numerous tributaries, some of wViich usually converge to form two superficial femoral veins. Of these, one, the external, ascends from the outer side of the knee and