SURFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. 1178 by chipping off the hamular process witli a small chisel introduced at tiie posterior extremity of the latei'al relief incisions. Naso-pharynx.—To explore the upper or nasal division of the pharynx the finger should be hooked upwards behind the soft palate. Anteriorly, the finger readily detects the sharp posterior border of the vomer, the posterior nares, and the posterior extremity of the middle and inferior turbinals. The roof of the space is formed by the basilar process of the occipital bone, while upon the posterior vmll is a transverse bony ridge caused by the projection of the anterior arch of the atlas. Upon the lateral rvalls of the naso-pharynx are the openings of the Eustachian tubes, situated | in. behind the posterior extremities of the inferior turl)inals (Firr. 639). The orifices, 1)ounded superiorly and posteriorly by a prominent margin, are directed downwards and forwards, and, therefore, in a direction favourable to the passage of the Eustachian catheter. Behind the prominent posterior margin of the orifice is a lateral recess of the pharynx known as the fossa of Rosenmiiller, in which the point of the Eustachian catheter is apt to become engaged. Upon the roof and posterior wall of the pharynx, down to the level of the anterior arch of the atlas, and extending laterally as far as the Eustachian orifices, is a collection of adenoid tissue, the pharyngeal tonsil. Hypertrophy of this tissue constitutes the condition known as " adenoids" the harmful effects of which are due to their interference with nasal respiration. Upon the centre of the pharyngeal tonsil is an orifice leading into a small recess into which numerous mucous glands open. The structures felt in the post-nasal space may be rendered visible by reflecting the light upon a small mirror placed immediately behind and below the soft palate {posterior rhinoscopy). The lower part of the inferior turbinal is obscured from view by the bulging of the upper surface of the soft palate. In plugging the j^osterior nares, it is important to rememlier that these openings measure nearly one inch in the vertical and half an inch in the transverse direction. In the child, owing to the small size of the face, the vertical diameter of the naso- pharynx is relatively much smaller than in the adult. The lymphatics of the pharynx join the upper deep cervical glands, one of whicli lies internal to the carotid vessel between the lateral recess of the pharynx and the prevertebral fascia. In children suppuration originating in this gland is the commonest cause of a retro-pharyngeal abscess. In the adult the four upper cervical vertebrfe can be explored from the mouth, while in the child the finger can also reach as far down as the sixth vertebra and the back of the cricoid cartilage. THE NECK. The general envelope of deep cervical fascia, along with the processes and partitions which proceed from its deep sm-face, subdivides the neck into compartments which limit and determine the spread of pus. The most important compartment is the central or visceral compartment, bounded anteriorly by the pretracheal fascia, pos- teriorly by the prevertebral fascia, and laterally by the fascia forming the vascular compartment. Posteriorly, this compartment extends from the base of the skull downwards into the posterior mediastinum; anteriorly, it extends from the hyoid bone into the anterior part of the superior mediastinum. Abscesses in the visceral compartment are either secondary to disease of the organs it contains, or the result of a primary suppurative cellulitis. A tubercular abscess originating in one of the retropharyngeal lymphatic glands lies in front of the prevertebral fascia, and points towards the posterior wall of the pharynx; abscesses secondary to disease of the cervical vertebrte lie behind the prevertebral fascia, and spread laterally behind the vascular compartment; they point behind the sterno-mastoid, and should be opened through an incision at the posterior border of the muscle, the surgeon keeping to the anterior aspect of tlie transverse processes in order to avoid the structures in the vascular compartment (Chiene). In front of the visceral compartment is a small muscular compartment containing the depressor muscles of the hyoid l>one; anterior to it again, in the region of th(! supra-sternal notch, is the small supra-sternal compartment, coutaiuiug tli(> lower