THE ARTICULATIONS OR JOINTS. 304 Each joint possesses a capsule (Figs. 228 and 230) which is either very thin or limited to synovial memljrane on the dorsal aspect. The plantar surface of the capsule is strengthened by a fibrous plate. The lateral ligaments (ligamenta collateralia) are well-detined bands similar to those already described in connexion with the metatarso-phalangeal joints. A synovial membrane lines each capsule in the series. Mechanism of the foot.—The bones of the foot are arranged in the form of a longitudinal and a transverse arch. The longitudinal arch is built on a very remarkable plan. Posteriorly the mass of the os calcis constitutes a rigid and stable pier of support, while anteriorly, by increasing the number of component j^arts, the anterior pier acquires great flexibility and elasticity without sacrificing strength or stability. The summit of the arch is formed by the astraigalus, which receives the weight of the body from the tibia, and the resilience of the arch is assured by the calcaneo-scaphoid and calcaneo-cuboid ligaments, together with the plantar fascia, which act as jiowerful braces or tie bands, preventing undue sejjaration of the Y>ievs of the arch, and consequent flattening of the foot. The weight of the body is distributed over all the five digits, owing to the arrangement of the bones of the foot in two parallel columns, an inner and an outer. The former, consisting of the astragalus, scaphoid, and the three cuneiforms, with the three inner metatarsal bones, distributes weight through the talo-scaphoid joint, while the latter {i.e. the outer column), comprising the calcaneum, cuboid, and the two outer metatarsal bones, acts in a similar manner through the talo-calcanean joint. The main line of immobility of this arch l^asses from the heel forwards through the middle toe, but its anterior section, which is slender, is supported on either side by two metatarsal bones, with their proximal tarsal associations, in all of which greater freedom of movement is found. The transverse arch is most marked at tlie level of tarso-metatarsal articulations. The intersection of these two arches at I'ight angles to each other introduces an architectural feature of great importance in connexion with the support of heavy weights. These longitudinal and transverse arches of the foot are in effect " vaults " intersecting each other at right angles, and in relation to the area which is common to both " vaults" the body weight is superposed exactly as the dome of a cathedral is carried upon two intersecting vaults. Movements at the Joints of Tarsus, Metatarsus, and Phalanges.—Considered in detail, the amount of movement which takes place between any two of these bones is extremely small, and, so far as the tarsus and metatarsus are concerned, it is mostly of the nature of a gliding motion. At the metatarso-phalangeal and interphalangeal joints movement is much more free, and is of the nature of flexion (bending of the toes towards the sole of the foot, i.e. plantar flexion) and extension. The latter movement when continued so as to raise the toes from the ground, and bend or approximate them towards the front of the leg, is termed dorsiflexion. Coincident with dorsiflexion there is always associated a certain amount of spreading of the toes, which is called abduction, and similarly with prolonged flexion there follows a diminution or narrowing of the transverse diameter of the front part of the foot by drawing the toes together—a move- ment termed adduction. In the foot the movements of abduction and adduction take place in regard to a plane which bisects the foot antero-jjosteriorly through the second toe, for this toe carries the first and second dorsal interosseous muscle. Notwithstanding the small amount of possible movement in connexion with individual tarsal and metatarsal joints, yet the sum total of these movements is considerable as regards the entire foot. In this way the movements of inversion and eversion of the foot result. By inversion we mean the raising of the inner border of the foot so that the sole looks inwards, while the toes are depressed towards the ground, and the outer border of the foot remains down- wards. This takes place chiefly at the talo-calcanean joint, but the transverse tarsal joints also participate. Eversion is chiefly the opposite of inversion, and the return of the foot to the normal piosition of the erect attitude; but under certain conditions it may be carried further, so that the outer border of the foot is raised from the ground, while the inner border is depressed. In both of these movements there is rotation between the astragalus and os calcis about an oblique axis which passes from the inner side of the neck of the astragalus to the outer and lower 'pavt of the os calcis. Of course all the movements of the foot are subordinated to its primary functions as an organ of supi^ort and progression. For these purposes its longitudinal and transverse arches are of extreme importance. The longitudinal arch resting on the os calcis behind and the heads of the metatarsal bones in front receives the weight of the body, as already explained, on the summit of the astragalus in the line of the third toe. Hence it is that the inner malleolus appears to be unduly prominent on the inner side of the ankle. The transverse arch buttresses the longitudinal one, ancl therefore, M'hether the body weight fall to the outer oi- the inner side of the longitudinal arch, it is supported by a mechanism at once stable, flexible, and elastic, or resilient, and cajjable of reducing to a minimum all jars that may be received by the forepart of the foot. As the heel is raised, in the act of walking, the weight is gradually transferred from the outer to the inner side of the foot, until the foot finally leaves the ground with a propulsive movement, which results from flexion of the phalanges of the great toe. In this connection it is worthy of note that the longitudinal line of greatest strength is on the inner side of the longitudinal arch, i.e. in relation to the great toe.