THE VASCJULAR SYSTEM. 902 Instead of following its usual course along tlie bracliialis anticus, the braeliial artery may accompany the median nerve beliind a sujjracondylar or epicondylic process, or ligament, as in many carnivores; it may pass in iront of tlie median nerve instead of behind it. It may give off a " vas aberrans " or a median artery, and any of its ordinary branches may be absent. The vas aberrans given off from the braeliial artery usuallj' ends in the radial artery, some- times in the radial recurrent, and rarely in the ulnar artery. The ulnar artery may be absent, being replaced by the " comes nervi mediani" or the inter- osseous artery, and it may terminate in the deep instead of in the superficial palmar arch. It rarely rises at a lower level than usual, and when it rises at a higher level it most commonly passes superficial to the muscles which spring from the internal epicondyle. Moreover, in these cases it fretpumtly has no interosseous branch, tlie latter vessel springing from the radial artery, and in all probahilit}' variations of this description are produced by the ulnar artery taking origin from the main trunk, which is represented by the radio-interosseous vessel, at a higher level than usual. Even when it commences in the usual way the ulnar artery may pass super- ficial to the muscles from the internal ejiicondyle, and in these cases its interosseous and recurrent branches sj^ring from the radial artery. The anterior and posterior interosseous arteries may arise separately from the ulnar instead of by a common interosseous trunk. The recurrent Ijranches of the ulnar may spring from the interosseous, and the interosseous itself may l)e a branch of the radial. The small median artery, the conqianion artery of the median nerve, usually a branch of the anterior interosseous, may spring from the axillary, brachial, or ulnar arteries; it may be mucli larger than usual, and terminate either by breaking up into digital Ijranches, or by joining one or more digital branches of the sujierficial jjalmar arch or the palmar arch itself. The radial artery may lie absent, its place being taken l)y Viranches of the ulnar or inter- osseous arteries ; it may arise from the axillary, or, higher than usual, from the brachial. It may terminate in muscular branches in the front of the forearm, or in the superficialis volae, or in carjial branches ; the lower portion of the artery, in these cases, is usually rej)laced by brandies of the ulnar or interosseous arteries. Occasionally the radial divides some distance above the wrist into two terminal branches, one of M'hich gives off the carpal branches, and becomes the su])erficialis voire, whilst the other crosses sujjerficial to the extensor tendons and passes to the Ijack of the wrist. The radial artery may run a superficial course, or, and especially when it commences at a lower level tlian usual, it may pass beneath the pronator radii teres and the radial origin of tlie flexor sublimis digitorum. In some cases it passes to the back of the wrist across the supinator longiis, and in otliers it lies iqmn, instead of beneath, the extensm' tendons of the thumb. Its branches may be diminished or increased in numljer. The radial recurrent may spring i'rom the l^racliial or ulnar arteries, or may be represented by several l)ranches from the upjier part of the radial. The dorsalis indicis may be large, and may rei^ftcejlie prince])s iiollicis and the radialis indicis. On the contrary, the dorsal cardial artery aM dorsal digital l)ranclies of the radial may l^e small, or the former may be replaced by branches of the interosseous arteries, and the latter by tlie sujierior perforating branches of the deep palmar arch. The princeps pollicis and radialis indicis arteries may be absent, their places being taken either by branches df the superficial palmar arch or by the dorsalis indicis artery The superficial palmar arch is sometimes absent; its branches are then given off from tlie deep arch. Conversely, it may be larger than normal, and it may l)e completed on the ulnar side by the radialis indicis, the princeps pollicis, or tlie comes nervi mediani arteries. The deep palmar arch is much more rarely absent than the superficial arcli. AVlien absent its branches are su])})lied liy the supei-ficial arch, the superior perforating arteries, or the palmar carpal arch. The Iliac Arteries and their Branches. The common iliac artery may be longer or shorter than usual, a iiajdification which is largely though not altogether determined by the jioint at which the Ijifurcation of the aorta takes place. If exceptionally long, it is usually tortuous. In rare cases in man the artery is absent. It occasionally gives off' the middle or a lateral sacral artery, and ilio-lumljar, spermatic, or accessory renal l)raiiches may arise from it. The internal iliac artery varies as regards length. It is usually longer, and rises at a higher level when the common iliac is short. In rare cases it has been found to arise from the aorta without the intervention of a common iliac. Frequently it does not, even in appearance, end in anterior and posterior divisions, but obviously forms a single trunk, as in the fcctiis, from which the several branches are given oft'. The visceral branches vary much in number and size, and the middle luemorrlioidal may not be present, its place being taken by liraiiclies from the vesical arteries. A renal branch soiiu'- linies arises from the internal iliac. The i]io-liiml)ar branch may rise from the common instead of from the iiileriial iliac; tlie gluteal and sciatic may rise by a common stem, or the gluteal may be absent, and its place taken by a branch from the femoral artery ; the sciat ic artery may, as in the foetus, constitute the main artery of the hind limb, and run down to liecome continuous witli t he jiopliteal artery. Probably the "comes nervi ischiadici" represents the original continuity of these two vessels. Occasionally the lateral sacral arteries do not arise fr(nii the internal iliac trunks. In some few instances the obturator artery arises from the dee]) epigast ric artery instead ol from tlie infernal iliac. The condition is ai)parently due to obliteration of the usual origin of