484 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. emergent portion (Figs. 358 and 359). The facial nerve thus forms a curved loop over the dorsal aspect of the abducent nucleus. The emergent part of the nerve takes an oblique course through the pons to reach the surface. It inclines out- wards and downwards as it proceeds towards the ventral aspect of the pons, of the column of gray matter in connexion with the fasciculus solitarius, and in this they end. The pars intermedia presents, therefore, the same terminal con- nexions within the brain as the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Abducent or Sixth Nerve (nervus abducens) (Figs. 358 and 359).—This is a small motor nerve, which emerges from the brain at the lower border of the pons on the outer side of the pyramid of the medulla. It is the nerve of supply to the external rectus muscle of the eyeball. Its nucleus of origin is a small spherical mass of gray matter, containing large multipolar cells, which lies in the dorsal part of the tegmental portion of the pons, close to the mesial plane and immediately subjacent to the gray matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle. Its position can be easily indicated on the ventricular floor, seeing that it is placed subjacent to the emenentia teres and immediately above the level of the strife acusticte. Its peculiar and intimate relation to the intrapontine portion of the facial nerve has already been indicated. It lies on the ventral aspect of, and within the concavity formed by, the two limbs of the loop of that nerve. The axons of the multipolar cells of this nucleus emerge from the inner aspect of the nucleus in the form of several bundles, which proceed through the whole antero-posterior thickness of the pons towards the place of exit. In this course they incline downwards and slightly outwards as they pass forwards. In the tegmental part of the pons they proceed forwards on the inner side of the superior olive, whilst in the ventral part of the pons they keep for the most part to the outer side of the pyramidal bundles, although several of the nerve fasciculi pierce these on their way to the surface. It would appear probable that certain of the axons of the cells of the abducent nucleus enter the posterior longitudinal fasciculus and proceed upwards in it to join the [third or oculo- motor nerve of the opposite side. Further mention of these will be made later on. Fibres and on its way it passes between its own nucleus and the spinal root of the fifth nerve. Entering the facial nucleus, and end- ing in fine terminal arborisations around its cells, are many fibres from the op- posite pyramidal tract; fibres from the spinal root of the fifth nerve ; fibres from the corpus trapezoides, etc. The nucleus is thus brought into connexion with the motor area of the cerebral cortex, with the trigeminal nerve or sensory nerve of the face, and with the auditory nerve, etc. Fig. 359.—Diagram of the Intrapontine Course pursded BY THE Facial Nerve. The fibres of the pars intermedia of Wrisberg arise from the cells of the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. These, like the cells of a spinal ganglion, are unipolar, the single process in each case dividing into a peripheral and a central branch. The group of peripheral fibres represent the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve, whilst the central fibres form the pars intermedia. The latter penetrate the brain, and, passing either through or on the dorsal side of the spinal root of the fifth nerve, they finally reach the upper part