THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 972 their fellows of the lower jaw, which throws tlie up[)er caiiiaes and the succeeding teeth into a position l)ehind (distal to) that of the same named teeth of the lower set. But as the lower molars are larger in their antero-posterior diameter than those of the upper row—and this remark applies par- ticularly to the wisdom teeth — the two dental arches terminate l)ehind at approximately the same YMiint. Tile iqjper (li'iital arch issaiil In t'oriii an elliptical, the lower a parabolic curve (Figs. 652 and 653). The line I'unued by the grinding surfaces of the upjjer teeth, as seen on profile view (Fig. 655), is^ usually somewhat convex, owing largely to the failure of the wisdom tooth to descend into line with the otliei\s. Similarly the line of the lower teeth is as a rule concave. In both jaws the crowns of the front teeth are higher (longer) than those of the molais. Period of Eruption of the Per- manent Teeth.—Although there is considerable variety in the dates at which the various permanent teeth appear al)ove the gums, the ordeo' of eruption is practically constant in different individuals, and is as follows :—Before any of the temporary teeth are lost the first permanent molars appeal' behind the 2nd milk molars. Next tlie central milk incisors fall out, and their places are taken Ijy the ])ermanent teeth of the same name; then follow the remaining teeth ill the following order: Lateral incisors, 1st premolars, 2nd premolars, canines, 2nd molars, and 3rd molars. It will be observed that the eruption of the canine is delayed until the two premolars, which succeed it in the row, are cut, so that it ])reaks the otherwise regular order of eruption. The 1st molar is sometimes popularly known, owing to the date of its eruption, as tlie "six- year-old tooth," and the 2nd molar as " the twelve-year-old tooth." The dates at wliich the eruption usually takes place may l)e simply stated as follows for the lower teeth ; those" of the upper jaw appear a little later :— Fig. 6.55.—To show the rehition of thu upper to the lower teeth when the nioath i.s clo.sed. The manner in which a tooth of one row usually strikes against two teeth of the opposite row, and the resulting interlocking of the teeth, is to be noted. 1st molars appear soon after the 6th year. Central incisors appear soon after the 7th year. Lateral 1st premolar 2nd Canine ,, 2iid molar 3r<l „ from the 8th 9th 10th Uth 12th 17th to The Milk Teeth. The deciduous, temporary, or milk teeth (dentes decidui) are twenty in number, ten above and ten below, or five in each lialf of each jaw—namely, two incisors, one canine, and two molars. They may be distinguished from the permanent teeth )jy their smaller size, their well-marked and constricted necks, and, in the case of the molars, by tlie wide divergence of their roots (Fig. 650). Otherwise tliey correspond so closely to the same named teeth of the permanent set, that they require no separate description, except in the case of the molars. The first upper molar has but three cusps on its crown—two external and one internal; the tirst lower molar has four—-two external and two internal, and the crowns of both