DEVELOPMENT OF THE SPINAL NEEVES. 619 The dorsal root iw the iirst to appear,—before, during, or after tlie union of the medullary plates and the formation of the neural tube. It takes origin as a cellular bud from the dorsal surface of the medullary tube in one of three ways :—(1) It may arise from the junction of the medullary plate and surface epiblast before the closure of the medullary groove. (2) It may spring from the neural crest, a ridge on the dorsal aspect of the medullary tube, after its closure is complete. (3) It may be simply a direct outgrowth from the dorsal surface of the medullary tube. Pyriform in shape, the bud enlarges and becomes separated from the medullary tube, and projects ventrally in the space between the myotome and the medullary tube. Each bud is separated by only a slight interval from its neiglibour. Tlie cells (neuroblasts) composing the bud become rapidly spindle-shaped, and by the middle of the fourtli week give rise to tv)o sets of j^i'ocesses ; (1) a central series, which Fin. -150.—Develoi'ment of the Spinal Nerves. A, Forniatioii of nerve roots. D.R, Dorsal root. V.R, Ventral root. N.T, Neural tube. No, Notochord. U, Formation of nerves. So, Somatic division. Vi, Visceral brand]. P, Posterior primary divisit Al.C, Alimentary canal. .A.0, Aorta. V, Cardinal vein. M.P, Muscle plate. U, E, Formation of suliunlinate branches. Lat, Lateral, and Ant, Anterior, brandies. B, Formation of nerve trunk (N). D.Gr, Dorsal ganglion. Sy, Sympathetic cord. W.D, Wolffian duct. Co, Cadom. F, Formation of nerve trunks in relation to the limb : dorsal and ventral trunks corresponding to lateral and anterior truid^s in D. and E. grow Ijackwards and are secondarily, connected witli the dorso-lateral aspect of the medullary tube as the fibres of the dorsal root; and (2) a peripheral series, wliicli con- stitute the dorsal root fibres of the spinal nerve and join the ventral root, to form tiie spinal nerve proper. The intermediate cellular mass remains as the spinal ganglion. The ventral root of a spinal nerve arises in quite a different way,' from cells (neuro- blasts) in the substance of the medullary tube. In the account of the development of the spinal cord it has been shown how the cellular constituents of tlie medullary tube are con- verted into two classes of cells : (1) spongioblasts, which produce the matrix (neuroglia) of the spinal cord; and (2) germ-cells or neuroblasts, which produce the nerve-cells of the gray matter of the cord. The neuroblasts give rise to the axis-cylinder processes or axons, whicli, penetrating the spongy tissue of the medidlai'v tulie and the outer limitino-