52 GENEKAL EMBEYOLOGY. the fold itself is the decidua capsularis or reflexa; the part on which the ovum rests is the decidua basalis or serotina, and tlie rest is known as the decidua vera. The decidua basalis lies in contact with the placental area of the chorion, i.e. the foetal part of the Unchanged layer Stratum spongiosunK Depidna basalis Stratum compactum Placental villus Maternal vessel Fio. -Diagram, showing comjiletion enlargement ol' the maternal blood-vessel the decidua basalis, the increase of tlie placental villi, the formation the amnion folds, and the appearance of the allantoic diverticulum. of the decidua capsularis, the in the stratum compactum of of placenta, and it forms the maternal part of this organ. In the fully developed human placenta, the foetal and maternal tissues of which it is formed are so intimately mingled and blended together that it is impossible to say where one ends and the other begins. By a careful study, however, of a series of placentfe of different ages a fairly clear and satisfactory idea of the part played by the maternal and foetal elements respectively, as well as of their relations to each other, may be obtained. The imderstood if the two Decidua basalis Unchanged layer Stratum spongiosum Stratum compactum Placental villus Maternal blood-vessel Maternal blood-sinus placental villus Structural characters of the completed organ will be best constituent parts are considered separately. The Foetal Part of the Placenta.—The villi of the placental portion of the chorion invade and penetrate the decidua basalis, whilst the villi of the non - placental chorionic area enter the decidua capsi;- lavis. As previously ex- plained, in connexion with the formation both of the amnion and of the chorion, the an- nular placental area is converted into a circular disc. It con- sists, like the rest of the chorion, of ecto- derm and mesoderm, and it contains rami- fications of the allan- toic vessels; but the ectoderm is thickened and increased, its villi are larger than those of the non-})lacental region of the chorion, and it is directly connected witli tlie allantoic stalk. The early villi are merely ectodermal buds. They impinge against the surface epithelium of the decidua, which disappears before tliem. They then penetrate the sub-epithelial tissues, destroying and replacing the uterine elements. Each villus is Somatic ^mesotlerm Splanchnic mesoderm Entoderm Uecidua vera Fig. 40.—Diagram, showing enlargement of the blood sinuses in the maternal part of the ))lacenta and the closure of the amnion.