ANTERIOK PEIMARY DIVISIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. 573 emerges from the spinal canal through an intervertebral fora- men, and, proceeding outwards, is distri- buted to the structures on the lateral and anterior aspects of the body, including the limbs. Each nerve is joined near its origin by a gray ramus com- municans from the sympathetic gan- gliated cord; and in the case of certain thoracic, lumbar, and sacral nerves, the anterior primary divi- sion gives off a delicate bundle of fibres, which forms the white ramus communicans of the sympathetic cord. That part of the spinal nerve which is distri- buted to the body wall and limbs may be termed somatic; the small white ramus communicans, inner- vating the structures in the splanchnic area, may be termed the visceral or splanchnic part of the spinal nerve. The anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves are only, in certain cases, distributed in a regu- lar segmental manner. Except in the case of the thoracic nerves, the anterior primary divisions are combined into the three great plexuses—cervical, brachial, and lumbo- sacral, which renders their arrangement and distribution exceed- ingly complex. A thoracic nerve, such as the fifth or sixth, may be regarded as a type to illustrate the mode of distribu- tion of the anterior C.5.6 Fig. 424.- -The Distribution of Cutaneous Nerves on the Front of THE Trunk. On one side the distribution of the several nerves is represented, the letters indicating their nomenclature. G.A, Great auricular nerve ; S.C, Superficial cervical nerve ; S.Cl, Supra- clavicular nerves ; AcR, Acromial ; Cl, Clavicular ; St, Sternal ; T.'2-12, Lateral and anterior branches of thoracic nerves ; I.H, Ilio-hypogastric nerve ; LI, Ilio-inguinal nerve ; Cluc, Cutaneous branch of circumflex nerve ; L.I.C, Lesser internal cutaneous nerve ; I.H, lutejcosto-humeral ; I.C, Internal cutaneous ; M.S, Cutaneous branch of musculo-spiral nerve ; E.C, External cutaneous nerves ; G.C, Genito-crural nerve ; M.C^'^, Middle cutaneous nerves ; I.C\ Branch of internal cutaneous nerve ; P, Branches of pudic nerve ; S.Sc, Branches of small sciatic nerve. On the other side a schematic representation is given of the areas supplied by the above nerves, the numerals indicating the spinal origin of the branches of distribution to each area.