VISCEKAL CLEFTS AND VISCERAL AECHES. 35 and a portion of the helix of the pinna of the external ear are formed. The carti- laginous bar in its interior is known as Meckel's cartilage. It forms the primitive skeleton of the arch. Its upper and lower extremities are ossified and remain in the adult, the former as the malleus, and possibly the incus, and the latter as the symphysial part of the lower jaw. The remainder of the cartilaginous bar dis- appears, but the fibrous membrane which surrounds the lower section of the inter- mediate part is ossified and converted into the main part of the lower jaw, whilst that round the upper section of the intermediate portion persists as the spheno- mandibular ligament. The blood vessel developed in the mandibular arch is, for the main part, a transitory structure, but its ventral section is converted into the internal maxillary, superficial temporal, and lingual arteries. The second and third arches are continued downwards into the floor of the pharyngeal portion of the fore-gut. There, converging, they insinuate them- selves between the tuberculum inipar and the furcula, across the anterior part of the sinus arcuatus, and imiting together form a transverse bar. This rapidly changes into a semilunar ridge, which embraces the posterior part of the tuber- culum impar, with which it fuses, and it forms the posterior third of the tongue. The second arch takes part in the formation of the side and anterior part of the neck. From its anterior border externally a and the lobule of the pinna of Fig. 28.—Stages in the Formation of the Tongue and Upper Apertuee op the Lajptnx in the Human Embryo (after His). I. Embryo 14 days old. II. Embryo 23 days old. III. Embryo 28 to 30 days old. IV. Embryo 2 months old. Visceral arches. C. Ccelom. E. Epiglottis. F. Furcula. FC. Foramen caecum. G. Glottis. SA. Sinus arcuatus. T. Tongue. TI. Tuberculum impar. part of the helix, the antihelix, the antitragus, the external ear are developed. The lower and upper portions of its cartilaginous bar—the hyoid bar—are ossified; the lower portion forms part of the body and the small cornu of the hyoid bone on its own side, and the upper portion is converted into the intra- and extra-temporal sections of the styloid process (the tympano-hyal and stylo-hyal portions of the styloid process of the temporal bone). The fibrous tissue of the intermediate part of the hyoidean bar persists in the adult as the stylo-hyoid ligament. The blood- vessel of the hyoid arch, the second cephalic aortic arch, almost entirely disappears, but from its ventral extremity the ascending pharyngeal, occipital and posterior auricular arteries are probably developed. The third visceral arch forms part of the neck posterior to the region of the second arch, and, as already pointed out, its lower end takes part in the formation of the posterior part of the tongue. The upper and middle parts of its cartilaginous bar disappear, but the lower part persists and is converted into the posterior part