100 OSTEOLOGY. The cranium cerebrale is composed of the occipital (os occipitale), the sphenoid (os sphenoidale), the ethmoid (os ethmoidale), and the frontal (os frontale), the two parietals (ossa parietalia), and the two temporals (ossa temporaHa)—eight bones in all. The bones of the face (cranium viscerale, ossa faciei) include the following:— Two single, viz. the vomer (vomer), and the inferior maxilla or mandible (mandibula), and twelve bones, arranged in pairs, viz. the superior maxillary (maxilloe), malar (ossa zygomatica), palate (ossa palatina), together with the lachrymal (ossa lacrymalia), nasal (ossa nasalia), and inferior turbinated (conchae inferiores)—fourteen bones in all. According to the scheme of international nomenclature, the inferior turbinals, the lachrymals, the nasals, and the vomer are included under the cranium cerebrale, and not with the cranium viscerale. The hyoid bone is usually described along with the skull. If, in addition, the bones of the middle ear, three on each side (malleus, incus, and stapes), be in- cluded, the skeleton of the head consists of twenty-nine bones. The separate bones will first be described, and then the skull will be considered as a whole and in section. THE SEPARATE BONES OF THE SKULL. The Fhontal Bone. The frontal bone (os frontale), situated in the fore part of the cranium, is a single bone formed by the fusion in early life of two symmetrical halves. It con- sists of a frontal part, which corresponds to the region of the forehead; an orbital - Frontal eminences Nasal spine Fig. 77.—Frontal Bone (Anterior View). part, which enters in the structure of the roof of the orbits; and a nasal part, which assists in forming the roof of the nasal fossa?. The frontal part (pars frontalis) is the shell-like portion of the bone which rises upwards above the orbital arches. Its external surface is rounded from side to side and from above downwards. This convexity is most pronounced about 1| inches above the orbital margins on either side of the middle line, constituting what are known as the frontal eminences (tubera frontalia). These mark the original sites of the centres from which the bone ossifies. The lower margin of this part is formed on either side of the middle line by the curved orbital margins (margines supraorbitales), the outer and inner extremities of which