909 CARTILAGES OF THE LAEYNX. Cartilago triticea- Superior cornii of L thyroid cartilagi Tliyroid notch Pom\mi Adam Crico-thyroi membrane Inferior cornu of thyroid cartilage Cricoid eartila. Fig. 612.—The Cabtilages and Ligaments of the Larynx viewed from the Front. the hyoid boue by the lateral thyro-hyoid ligament. The inferior cornu is shorter and stouter than the superior cornu. As it proceeds downwards it curves slightly inwards, and upon the inner face of Hyoid bnne Epiglottis its extremity it shows a circular flat facet, by means of which it articulates with a similar facet on the lateral aspect of the cricoid cartilage. The superior harder of the ala is for the most part slightly convex, and in front it dips suddenly down to become continuous with the mai'gin of the thyroid notch. Posteriorly, where it joins the superior cornu, it exhibits a shallow notch or concavity. The inferior border is to all intents and purposes horizontal, but it is marked off by a projection, termed the inferior tubercle, into a short posterior part, which shows a shallow concavity in front of the inferior cornu, and a longer part which lies in front of the tubercle, which is also concave, but to a less degree. The external surface of the ala is divided into two unequal areas by an oblicLue line or ridge. This line begins above at the superior tubercle, a prominence situated im- mediately below the superior border, and a short distance in front of the root of the superior cornu. From this the oblique line proceeds downwards and forwards, to end inferiorly in the inferior tubercle on the lower border of the ala. The area which hes behind the obhque hne is much smaller than that which lies in front. It is covered hj the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx. The larger anterior area is for the most part covered by the thyro-hyoid muscle. To the oblique line are attached the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles. The inner surface of the ala of the thyroid cartilage is smooth and slightly concave. Cricoid Cartilage (cartilago cricoidea).— The cricoid cartilage is shaped like a signet- ring. Behind, there is a broad, thick, and some- what quadrilateral plate, termed the posterior lamina; whilst in front and laterally, the cir- cumference of the ring is completed hj a curved l)and, called the anterior arch. The lumen of the ring enclosed by these parts is circular below, but above, the ring is compressed later- ally, so that the lumen becomes elliptical. The superior border of the posterior lamina presents a faintly-marked mesial notch. On either side of this there is an oval convex facet which looks more outwards than upwards, and which articulates with the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The posterior surface of the lamina is divided by an elevated median ridge into two depressed areas which give attachment to the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles. The front part of the anterior arch of the cricoid is in the form of a narrow band, but as it proceeds backwards towards the posterior lamina its superior border rises rapidly, and in consequence the ai'ch becomes much Epiglottis Hvoid bone Cartilago triticea Thyro-hyoid membrane Superior, cornu of uid TlUWR Superior tubercle ou the ala of thyroid cartilage < )bliiiue line Inferior tubercle inferior cornu of tliyroid cartilage Crico-thyroid membrane Cricoid cartilage Fig, 613.—Profile View of the Cartilages AND Ligaments of thk. Larynx.