919 LAEYNGEAL MUSCLES. The posterior crico-arytenoid muscle (musculus cricoaiytcenoideus posterior) is somewhat fan-shaped (Fig. 623, p. 920). It springs by a broad origin from the depression which is present on the posterior lamina of the cricoid cartilage on each side of the mesial ridge, and its fibres converge to be inserted into the posterior surface of the processus muscularis of the arytenoid cartilage. In pursuing its upward and outward course on the back of the cricoid cartilage its fibres show different degrees of obliquity. The uppermost fibres are short and nearly horizontal; the intermediate fibres are the longest, and are very oblique; whilst the lowest fibres are almost vertical in their direction. The lateral crico-arytenoid muscle (musculus cricoarytfEnoideus lateralis) is triangular in form and smaller than the preceding muscle (Fig. 622). It springs from the upper border of the lateral part of the anterior arch of the cricoid as far back as the facet which supports the base of the arytenoid cartilage. A few of its fibres also take origin from the lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane, to whicli its deep surface is applied. From this attachment its fibres run backwards and upwards, and converge to be inserted into the anterior surface of the processus muscularis of the arytenoid cartilage. The superficial or outer surface of this muscle is covered by the lower part of the ala of the thyroid cartilage and by the upper part of the crico-thyroid muscle. The thyro-arytenoid muscle (musculus thyreoarytsenoideus) is placed in the lateral wall of the larynx under cover of the ala of the thyroid cartilage (Fig. 622). Its lower border is contiguous with, and generally inseparably blended with, the upper margin of the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle, so that the two muscles form a more or less continuous sheet. The thyro-arytenoid muscle is usually tlescribed as consisting of a superficial and a deep part, termed respectively the tliyro-arytenoideus externus and the thyro-arytenoideus internus. As a rule these parts are more or less completely united, and can only be isolated from each other by artificial means. The thyro-arytenoideus externus is a broad muscular layer which lies immediately subjacent to the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Its lower border is in contact with the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle, whilst its upper border is placed at a higher level than the true vocal cord. The upper part of the muscle is therefore in rela- tion to the wall of the sinus of the larynx. The thyro-arytenoideus externus arises in front from the lower half of the inner surface of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, close to the angle, and also from the lateral part of the crico - thyroid membrane, on which it to some extent lies. Its fibres pass backwards, and are inserted into the outer border and muscular process of the arytenoid cartilage, a certain number, however, turning round this cartilage, and becom- ing continuous with the transverse fibres of the arytenoideus muscle. A considerable number of the uppermost fibres of the thyro- arytenoideus externus, as they pro- ceed backwards, curve upwards so as to form a thin band which reaches the aryteno-epiglottidean fold and the margin of the epiglottis, constitute the thyro-epiglottidean muscle. The thyro-arytenoideus internus is a slender, three-sided, muscular band whicli Epiglottis Aryteno-epiglottidean muscle Hyoid Cuneiform cartilage " Tliyro-epiglottidean muscle Thyro-hyoid membrane Saccule of larynx >luscular process of arytenoid cartilage riiyro-arytenoid muscle Thyroid cartilage Crico-arytenoideus lateralis Crico-arytenoideus posticus Crico-thyroid membrane Cricoid cartilage Fin. 622.- -DlSSECTION OF THE MuSCLES IN THE LaTER.\L Wall op the Larynx. The right ala of the thjToifl cartilage has been reinovei These