THE DEEP CONNEXIONS OF THE CEANIAL NEEVES. 481 fiftli nerve, which is placed on its inner side. Its fibres come to an end in three nuclei of termination, which are situated in the dorsal part of the pons and medulla, Adz. (1) the principal nucleus or dorsal nucleus; (2) the nucleus of the descending root; and (3) the nucleus of Deiters. The principal nucleus (Figs. 334, p. 463, and 357, p. 480) is a large diffuse nuclear mass, which lies in the floor of the fourth ventricle subjacent to the surface district known as the area acuslica. It is situated, therefore, in both the pons and the medulla to the outer side of the fovea superior and the fovea inferior. In section it is prismatic in ou{line, and crossing its surface immedi- ately under the ependyma of the ventricle are the striae aeustica?. When the nervus vestibularis, as it traverses the brain, reaches the inner aspect of the dorsal portion of the restiform body, a very large proportion of its fibres turn vertically downwards in separate bundles and form the descending root of the vestibular nerve (Figs. 341, p. 458; 343, p. 460; 344, p. 463; 357, p. 480). This proceeds through the lower part af the pons into the medulla, in which it may be traced as far as the level of the decussation of the fillet. Associated with the descending root there is a column of gray matter, with nerve-cells strewn sparsely throughout it. This is the nucleus of the descending root, and the fibres end in fine arborisations around these nerve-cells. The fibres of the vestibular nerve end mainly in the nucleus of Deiters. This nucleus is composed of a number of large and conspicuous multipolar nerve-cells, which are scattered amidst the bundles of the descending root of the vestibular nerve. As it is traced upwards into the pons the nucleus gradually inclines back- wards, and finally it occupies a place in the lateral wall of the fourth ventricle. It attains its greatest development at the level of the emerging part of the facial nerve, and this upper part is sometimes termed the nucleus of Bechterew. Central Connexions of the Cochlear Nerve.—The cochlear nerve is brought into connexion with the inferior quadrigeminal body, and the corpus geniculatum internum of the opposite side by the fibres of the corpus trapezoides and the lateral fillet. But this connection is not direct; the chain is composed of several separate links or neurons superimposed one over the other. The fibres of tlie cochlear nerve end in the ventral cochlear nucleus and in the tuber- culum acusticum. From the cells of these nuclei two tracts arise, viz. a ventral tract, composed of the fibres of the corpus trapezoides, and a dorsal tract, which is represented by the strife acusticte. The corpus trapezoides (Figs. 357 and 358) is formed of the axons of the cells of the ventral cochlear nucleus, as well as certain of the axons of the cells of tuberculum acusticum. Many of these fibres end in the superior olive, whilst others are added to the tract from the cells of that nuclear mass. So constituted, the trapezial fibres cross the mesial plane and decussate with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side. Reaching the opposite superior olivary nucleus a further interchange of fibres takes place, and almost immediately after this the strand turns upwards and becomes the lateral fillet (Figs. 346, p. 466 ; 347, p. 467). But still another nucleus is interposed in its path, viz. the nucleus of the lateral fillet. Here some fibres are droj)ped, whilst from the nuclear cells others are acquired, and the lateral fillet then proceeds onwards without further interruption until it reaches the inferior quadrigeminal body and the corpus geniculatum internum, in which its fibres end. It is probable, however, that some likewise extend nto the superior quadrigeminal body. But the lateral fillet also includes the fibres of the striae acusticae of the opposite side. These fibres arise from the cells of the tuberculum acusticum, and arrange them- selves in the conspicuous bundles which sweep round the dorsal aspect of the resti- form body and proceed inwards across the floor of the fourth ventricle, immediately beneath the ependyma (Fig. 333, p. 447). Reaching the middle line they dip forwards into the substance of the medulla, and, crossing the mesial plane, they join the lateral fillet. It is well to remember that the connexion between the terminal cochlear nuclei and the inferior quadrigeminal body is not altogether with that of the opposite side, as the foregoing description and the diagram (Fig. 357) might lead one to infer. A few fibres pass directly to the inferior quadrigeminal body of the same side, but none to the corre- sponding corpus geniculatum internum; the connexion with the latter is entirely crossed (Ferrier and Turner). 31