134 OSTEOLOGY. Architecture.—Formed of dense and comijact bone, the strength of the nasal bones is increased by their mode of union and the formation of a median crest posteriorly. Variations.—The size and configuration of the nasal bones vary greatly in different races, being, as a rule, large and prominent in tlie white races, and flat and reduced in size, as well as depressed, in the Mongolian and Negro stock. Obliteration of the internasal suture is unusual; it is stated to occur more freq^uently in negroes, and is the recognised condition in adult apes. Ossification.—The nasal bones are each developed from a single centre, which makes its appearance about the end of the second month in the membrane covering the fore part of the cartilaginous nasal capsule. Subsequent to birth the underlying cartilaginous stratum disappears, persisting, however, below in the form of the lateral nasal cartilage, and behind as the septal cartilage of the nose. The Lachrymal Bones. process The lachrymal bone (os lachrymale) or os unguis, a thin scale of bone about the size of a finger-nail, forms part of the inner orbital wall behind the frontal pro- cess of the superior maxilla. Irregularly quadrangular, it has two surfaces—an inner and outer—and four borders. Its external or orbital surface has a vertical ridge, the lachrymal crest (crista lachrymalis posterior), running downwards upon it. In front of this is the lachrjrmal Orbital surface groove (sulcus lachrymalis) for the lodgment of the lachrymal sac. The floor of this groove descends below the level of the bulk of the bone, and forms the descending process, which helps to complete the osseous canal for the nasal duct, and articulates inferiorly with the inferior turl)inal. The lower end of the lachrymal crest terminates in a hook-like projection, the hamular process (hamulus lachry- malis), which curves round the posterior and outer edge of the lachrymal notch of the superior maxilla, and thus defines the upper aperture of the canal for the nasal duct. To the free edge of the crest behind the lachrvmal groove FiG^i05.-RiGHT Lachrymal ^^.^ attached the reriected portion of the tendo oculi, and Bone (Orbital Surlace). , , . , rn, . i. . i i i i • i i the tensor tarsi muscle. Ihe part of the bone behmd the lachrymal crest is smooth and continuous with the surface of the os planum of the ethmoid. The inner surface is irregular and cellular above; it closes in some of the anterior ethmoidal cells. Where it is smoother it forms a part of the lateral wall of the middle meatus of the nose immediately behind the frontal process of the superior maxilla, and above tlie inferior turbinated bone. The superior border articulates with the orbital plate of the frontal; the anterior edge with the posterior border of the frontal process of the superior maxilla, with which it completes the lachrymal groove for the lodgment of the lachrymal sac. The inferior margin articulates with the orbital surface of tlie superior maxilla, and in front, hj its descending process witli the inferior turbinal. Posteriorly the bone articulates with the anterior border of the os planum of the ethmoid. Connexions.—The laclnymal hone articulates with four hones—the frontal, ethmoid, inferior turV)inal, and tlie superior maxilla. Architecture.—The bone consists of a thin papery translucent lamina, somewhat strength- ened by tlie addition of the vertical crest. Variations.—Tlie lachrymal is occasionally absent. In some cases it is divided into two parts ; in otliers replaced by a number of smaller ossicles. In rare instances the hamular ])rocess mav extend forwards to reach the orl)ital margin, and so bear a snare in the formation of the face, as in lemurs (Gegenbauer). In othei- instances the hamulus is much reduced in size. Occasion- allv the lachrymal is separated from tlio os planum of the ethmoid l>y a down-growth from the frontal, which articulates with the orbital jirocess of tlie superior maxilla, as is the noiiual disi)asition in the Gorilla and Clumpanzee. (Turner, Challemjer A'^yor^.s, " Zoology," vol. x. Part IV. Plate I. ; and A. Thomson, Journ. AiKtf. and Physiol., London, vol. xxiv. j). 349.) Ossification.—The lachrymal is developed fi-om a single centre, which makes its aj)pearance about the end of the second or the beginning of the third month of intra- uterine life in the membrane around the cartilaginous nasal capsule.