388 a. Elevation and Depression. h. Protraction and Retraction. Digastric Stylo-hyoid Mylo-hyoid Geiiio-liyoid Genio-hyo-glossus Hyo-glossus Muscles closing the month Tliyro-hyoid Sterno-hj-oid Oiiio-hyoid Sterno-tliyroid Genio-hyoid Genio-hyo-glossus Stylo-hyoid Middle constrictor ■ (2) Movements of the Thyroid Cartilage.—The thyroid curtilage is raised and lowered during sj)eech and deglutition. Elevation. Depression. Thyro-hyoid Stylo-pharyngeus Pa] a to - phary ngeus Elevators of hyoid bone Muscles closing mouth Sterno-thyroid Crico-tliyroid Depressors of hyoid lione (3) Movements of the Tongue.—The chief movements of the tongue in speech and de- glutition are elevation and depression, jirotrusion and retraction, and lateral mo\'enients. a. Elevation and Depression. Stylo-glossns (base) Palato-glossns Muscles elevating hyoid bone Muscles closing laouth Genio-hyo-glossns Hyo-glossus C hond r o -glossns Muscles depressing the hyoid bone h. Protrusion and Betraction. Genio-hyo-glossus {fosterior fibres) Genio-hyo-glossns {anterior fibres) Stylo-glossus e. Lateral Movements. —The muscles of one side only. (4) Movements of the Head.—The sterno-mastoid muscles, acting together, flex the head on the spinal column, assisted liy the suj)ra-hyoid and infra-hyoid muscles. The sterno-mastoid muscle of one side, acting alone, bends the head to the same side, and simultatieously rotates it to the opposite side, as seen in torticollis (wryneck). (5) Movements of the Shoulder Girdle.^—The omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles have already been included among the elevators of the shoulder girdle. (6) Respiration.—The muscles on the front of the neck are auxiliary muscles in extraordinary or difficult insjiiration. The masseter and temjioral muscles fix the lower jaw ; the hyoid bone is raised and fixed by the suj)ra-hyoid muscles ; and the sternum is raised by the sterno-mastoid and infra-hyoid muscles. The Muscles of the Pharynx. The muscular envelope of the pharynx is composed of two strata. The external layer consists of the three constrictor muscles; the internal layer consists of the longitudinal fibres of the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyugeus muscles. The superior constrictor muscle is triangular or fan-shaped. It arises successively from the lower half of the posterior border of the internal pterygoid plate, from the pterygo-mandibular ligament, from the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and from the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth (glosso- pharyngeus). The muscular fibres radiate backwards, and are inserted for the most part into a median raphe extending down the back wall of the pharynx in