1022 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. iiieut to the iutu!^tiual wall, it will .sei-u tliat it« five edge is not only uiululatiiig, luit is I'rilK'il or plaited to an extreme degree. Wlieu shown in this way, it is found that the ])laiting or folding is not t^uite indiscriminate, lint that tin- main folds, of wliich tliere are usually six, run alter- nately to the right and left. As a rule, the first fold runs to the left from the duodeuo-jejunal flexure, and goes to a eoil of jejunum which lies under the transverse mesocolon, and hel])s to support the stonuich (this coil has been already referred to, ]iage 1003). The second fold jiasses to the right, the third to the left, and so on up to the fifth and sixth, wliicli aie usually suiall. Fj'om the uiai-gins of these primary folds secondary folds jirojed in all directions, and from these again even a third series may lie formed. This order is of course hy no means constant, hut if the intestine he removed from a hardened hody in the way suggested, without distui'liing the mesentery, it will lie found to be arranged with more or less regulai'ity on some such plan as that indicated. Arrangement of Coils of Small Intestine.—Although the greatest variety is i'ouiid ill tlie (lisp(»siti(iii of the small intestine, and it is iiupossihle to state in wliat regions of the abdomen the different parts of the tube will i)e found, still it may 1)6 said that in general the jejunum (as might be expected from the position at which it liegins) is placed aliove and to the left, in reference to the ileum, which latter lies below and to the right. Again, the upper part of the jejunum is usually situated to the left of the (luodeno-jejunal flexure, in contact with the under surface of the pancreas and transverse mesocolon : and, simihirly, the terminal part of the ileum almost always lies in the pelvis, from which it passes up over the right side of the pelvic brim to reach the ileo-csecal orifice. Another portion of the small intestine is not uncommonly found in the pelvis; this is the part with the longest mesentery, and lies between two ])oints, six and eleven feet respectively from tlu' duodenum (Treves). Differences between Jejunum and Ileum.—If the small intestine l)e followed down from the duodenum to the Cfecum no noticeaI)le change in appearance will l)e found at any one part of its course, to indicate the transition from jejunum to ileum ; for the one passes insensibly into the other. Nevertheless, a graclual change takes place, and if typical parts of the two, namely, the upper portion of the jejunum and the lower portion of the ileum, be examined, they will be found to present characteristic differences, which ttre set forth in the following table:— Jejunum. Ileum. Wider, H to 1^ iii(di in diameter. Wall, thicker and heavier. Redder and more vascular. Valvuhe conniventes well deveh)ped. Peyer's jjatches, few and small. Narrower, Ij to 1 inch in diameter. Wall, thinner and lighter. Paler and less vascular. Valvule conniventes alisent or very suiall. Peyer's patches, large and numerous. Tlie villi are also said to be shorter and ))roader in the jejunum, more slender and filiform in the ileum (Eauljer). The terminal i)ortioii of the ileum, after crossing the brim of the pelvis, runs upwards, and also slightly backwards and to the right, in close contact witli the Ciecum, until tlie ileo-ctccal orifice is reached. Meckel's Diverticulum (divei ticulum ilei).—This is a short wide protrusion which is found springing from the lower ])art of the ileum in a little over 2 per cent of the bodies examined. It is usually about 2 inches long, and of the same width as the intestine from which it comes off. Most commonly it is found about 2| feet from the ileo-ciecal valve, and opjiosite the terndnation of the sujierior mesenteric artery. As a rule, it runs at right angles to the gut, and its end is free ; but occasionally it is adlierent either to the abdominal wall, the adjacent viscei-a, or the iiieseutery, when it may be the i-iuse of straugulatiou of the intestine. The diverticulum is due to the peisistence of the proximal j>ortion of the vitelline (or vitelio- intestinal) duct, which connects the primitive intestine of the embryo with the yolk sac. In shajje it may be cylindrical, conical, or cord-like, and it may present secondary diverticula near its tip. It ari.ses most frecpiently from the free border of the intestine, but it sometiuies comes off from the side. It lains at riglit angles to the gut most commonly, l)Ut it may assume any direction, and it often is provided with a mesentery. In .3302 bodies sjiecially examined with reference to its existence, it was present in 73, or 2'2 per cent, and it a]i])eared to be unnv, common in the male than in the female. In 59 out of the 73 cases its position with reference to the end of the ileum was exauiiued : its average distance from the ileo-c;ecal valve was 322 hiches