TYMPANIC OSSICLES. 711 sen anterior, (6) processus brevis seu lateralis. The head and neck are situated in the epitympanic recess; the processus brevis and manubrium are fixed to the inner surface of the membrana tympani; whilst the processus longus is directed forwards Fig. 520.—Left jMembrana Tympani and Chain of Tympanic Ossicles (seen from inner aspect). x 3. towards the Glaserian fissure, to which, in the adult, it is connected by ligamentous fibres. The head, somewhat rounded, is smooth and convex above and in front, and presents, on its posterior aspect, a facet for articulation with the body of the incus. This facet is directed obliquely downwards and inwards, and reaches slightly on to its mesial surface. More or less elliptical in form, it is constricted near the middle so as to resemble, somewhat, a figure of 8 : an oblique ridge, corresponding with the constriction, divides the facet into two parts—an upper and larger, directed back- wards ; and a lower and lesser, directed inwards. Opposite the lower part of the constriction the inferior edge of the facet is very prominent, and is continued up- wards into the oblique ridge, just referred to ; it forms a tooth-like process, the spur or cog-tooth of the malleus. On the back of the head, below this spur, is an oblique crest, the crista mallei, to which is attached the posterior ligament of the malleus. The neck is the slightly-constricted portion immediately below the head. Flattened from before backwards, its outer surface is directed towards the membrana flaccida, whilst its inner is crossed by the chorda tympani nerve. The handle is directed- downwards, inwards, and backwards from the neck, forming with the long axis of the head an angle, opening inwards, of 126'' to 150°. Its upper part is flattened from before backwards, but towards the lower end it is twisted on itself, so that its surfaces look outwards and inwards; moreover, the lower end is slightly curved, the concavity being directed forwards and outwards. It is fixed, along its entire length, to the membrana propria of the tympanic membrane by its periosteum and by a layer of cartilage (Gruber). This latter intervenes between the handle and. the membrane, and must be regarded as a residue of that stage of development when the entire malleus was cartilaginous. On the inner aspect of the handle, near its upper extremity, a slight projection for the attachment of the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle may be seen. The long process is-a slender spicule springing from the forepart of the neck and directed forwards towards the Glaserian fissure. In the foetus it constitutes the longest process of the malleus and is directly continuous with Meckel's cartilage. In the adult it usually assumes the form of a small pro- jection, since its anterior part is represented merely by fibrous tissue. The short process may be looked upon as the upper extremity of the handle projected out- wards ; it is fixed to the upper part of the membrana tympani by the cartilaginoiis layer already referred to, and to the extremities of the notch of Eiviniis by the anterior and posterior malleolar folds. The incus (fig. 519 A, C) may be best likened to a bicuspid tooth, with widely