112 OSTEOLOGY. the roof and posterior wall of the external auditory meatus, where it unites inferiorly with the tympanic plate. In the adult this process is occasionally sharply defined posteriorly by an oblique irregular fissure, the remains of the masto-squamosal suture. Professor Macewen has pointed out that this suture frequently remains open till puberty and occasionally after, and may be of importance as a channel along which in- fective processes may extend. The inner surface of the squamous part, less extensive than the outer aspect owing to the bevelling of the superior border, is marked by the impression of the convolutions of the temporal lobe of the cerebrum, and is limited below by the petro-squamosal suture, the remains of which can frequently be seen. It is crossed in front by an ascending groove for the middle meningeal artery, branches from which course backwards over the bone in grooves more or less parallel to its upper border. Fig. 86.—Right Temporal Bone (Inner Side). The superior border of the squamous part is curved, sharp, and scale-like, being be\'elled at the expense of its inner table, except in front, where the margin is thick and stout. Here it articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid, its union with that bone extending to near the fore part of the smnmit of the curve, behind which it is united to the parietal overlapping the lower border of that bone; posteriorly the free margin of the squamous part ends at an angle formed between it and the mastoid process called the incisura parietalis. The tympanic part (par.s tynq)anica) of the temporal bone forms the anterior, lower, and part of the posterior wall of the external auditory meatus. Bounded in front and above by the Glaserian fissure, it forms the hinder wall of the non- articular part of the glenoid fossa. Fused internally with the petrous part, its lower edge, sharp and well defined internally, splits to enclose the root of the projecting styloid process, and is lience called the vaginal process. Externally it unites with the fore part of the mastoid process, and liiglier up with the descending l)rocess of the squamous part, from both of which it is sepaiated by the auricular fissure (fissura tympano - mastoidea) through which the auricular branch of the vagus escapes. Its free border, which forms the anterior, lower, and part of the