THE ORGANS OF SENSE AND THE INTEGUMENT. By Egbert Howden. THE NOSE. The nose constitutes the peripheral part of the organ of smell (organon olfactus), since to the upper portion of its mucous lining the branches of the olfactory nerve are distributed. It consists of an external portion, the outer nose, which projects from the face, and of an internal part, or cavum nasi, which is divided by a vertical septum into right and left cavities or fossa3. The outer nose, or nasus externus, forms a more or less triangular pyramid, of which the upper angle is termed the root (radix nasi) and is usually separated from the glabella hj a depression, while its base (basis nasi), directed downwards, is per- forated by the apertures of the nostrils (anterior nares). Its free angle is named the point (apex nasi), and the anterior border, joining root and point, is termed the dorsum nasi; the upper part of the dorsum is supported by the nasal bones, and is named the bridge. The lateral aspects of the nose are continuous with the eyelids above and with the cheeks below, forming, with the latter, a varying angle. Each lateral surface ends inferiorly in a mobile and expanded portion, the ala nasi, which forms the outer boundary of the anterior nares and is limited above by a furrow, the alar sulcus. The skin covering the nose is thin and movable over the root, but thick and adherent over the point and alae, where it contains numerous large sebaceous glands. The arterial supply of the outer nose is derived from the facial and ophthalmic arteries, and its veins drain themselves into the facial and ophthalmic trunks. Its lymphatics follow the course of the facial vein and open into the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The facial nerve supplies its muscles, while the sensory nerves for the skin are the infratrochlear and nasal branches of the ophthalmic nerve and the infraorbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The nose presents great variety as to its size and shaj^e, and certain well-defined types, such as aquiline, Grecian, etc., are described. The relation which its breadth, measured across the alse, bears to its length, measured from root to point, is termed the cephalometric nasal index, and is expressed thus: greatest breadth x 100 greatest length. In white races this index is below 70 (leptorhines); in yellow races, between 70 and 85 (mesorhines); and in black races, above 85 (platyrhines). CAETILAGES OF THE i^OSE. In addition to the bony skeleton of the nose there are five chief cartilages (cartilagines nasi) which contribute to the production and maintenance of its shape. These are named—(a) the cartilage of the septum, and (b) the upper and lower lateral cartilages, on each side. The cartilage of the septum (cartilago septi nasi, Fig. 484) is of an irregularly quadrilateral form. Its postero-superior edge is attached to the mesethmoid; its postero-inferior margin to the vomer and intermaxillary crest. Its antero-superior