OSTEOLOGY. 72 which enter the siirface of the shaft and epiphysis; but in addition there is a larger trunk which enters the diaphysis and reaches the medullary cavity. This is called the nutrient artery of the bone. The direction taken by this vessel varies in different bones. In the upper limb the artery runs downwards in the case of the humerus, and upwards in the radius and ulna; in the lower limb the nutrient vessel of the femur is directed towards the upper extremity of the shaft, whilst in the tibia and fibula it follows a downward course. It is difficult to account for this difference in the arrangement of the vessels; but it has been pointed out that when all the joints are flexed, as in the position occupied by the foetus in utero, the direction taken by the vessels is the same, and corresponds to a line passing from the head towards the tail-end of the embryo. Consequently, in the upper limb the vessels flow towards the elbow, whilst in the lower limb they pass from the knee. The attention of anatomists has long been directed to the elucidation of the laws which regulate bone-growth. Our present knowledge of the subject may be briefly summarised in the following generalisations :—• 1. In bones with a shaft and two epiphyses, the epiphysis towards which the nutrient artery is directed is the first to unite with the shaft. 2. In bones with a shaft and two epiphyses, as a rule the epiphysis which com- mences to ossify latest unites soonest with the shaft. (The fibula is a notable ex- ception to this rule. See p. 231.) 3. In bones with a shaft and one epiphysis the nutrient artery is directed towards the end of the bone which has no epiphysis. (This arrangement holds good in the case of the clavicle, the metacarpus, metatarsus, and phalanges.) 4. When an epiphysis is ossified from more than one centre, coalescence takes place between the separate ossific nuclei before the epiphysis unites with the shaft. Highly suggestive, too, are the following propositions—That ossification first commences in the epiphysis which ultimately acquires the largest relative propor- tion to the rest of the bone, and that the ossification of the epiphysis is also correlated with its functional importance. In cases of long bones with only one epiphysis, the epiphysis is placed at the end of the bone where there is most movement. The veins which permeate the cancellous texture of the bone are large and thin- walled. They do not accompany the arteries, and, as a rule, in long bones they escape through large openings near the articular surface. In flat bones they occupy channels within the diploe, and drain into an adjacent sinus, or form communica- tions with the superficial veins of the scalp. The lymphatics are mainly periosteal, but enter the bone along with the vessels and become perivascular. The nerves which accompany the arteries are probably destined for the supply of the coats of these vessels. Whether they end in the bony tissue or not is un- known. THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN". The vertebral column (columna vertebralis) of man consists of thirty-three segments or vertebrae, placed one on the top of the other. In the adult, certain of these vertebrae have become fused together in the process of growth to form bones, the segmental arrangement of which is somewhat obscured, though even in their fully- developed condition sufficient evidence remains to demonstrate their compound nature. The vertebrje so blended are termed the fixed or false vertebrae, whilst those between wliich the osseous union has not taken place are described as the movable or true vertebrae. This fusion of the vertebral segments is met with at either extremity of the vertebral column, more particTilarly below, where the column is modified to adapt it for union with the girdle of the lower limb, and also in the region of man's degenerated caudal appendage. But a partial union of the vertebral segments also takes place above, between the two highest vertebme, in association with the mechanism necessary to provide for the movements of the head on the column.