THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 830 between the sternal and costal origins of the diaphragm, and terminate in the internal mammary veins. Musculo-phrenic veins.—The veme comites of the nuiscLdo-jDiirenic artery com- mence in the abdomen, [lass through tlie diaphi'agni with the artery, and terminate in the internal mamnisiry veins. They receive as tributaries tlie anterior intercostal veins of the seventh, eighth, and ninth intercostal spaces, and small venules from the substance of the diaphragm. Vertebral Veins (w. verteljrales).—These correspond only to the extra-crauial parts of the verteltral arteries. Each commences by the union of offsets Irom the intraspinal venous plexuses, and, issuing from tlie spinal canal, passes across the posterior arch of the atlas with the vertebral artery to the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas. It then descends through the foramina in the cervical transverse processes, and breaks up into a plexus of venous channels which surround the artery. At the lower part of the neck these channels unite to form a single trunk which issues from the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and descends, in the interval between the longus colli and scalenus auticus muscles, to terminate in the upper and l)ack part of the innominate vein, where it possesses a uni- or bi-cuspidate valve. Relations.—In the first part of its course the vein lies in the suboccipital triangle. The second, plexiform poi'tion, is in the canal formed by the foramina in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and, with tlie artery which it surrounds, lies in front of the trunks of the cervical spinal nerves. The third part, in the root of the neck, is between the longus colli and scalenus anticus muscles, in front of the first part of the vertebral artery, and behind the internal jugular vein. Tributaries.— In addition to the offsets from the intraspinal venous plexuses by the union of whicii it is formed, each vertebral vein I'eceives tlie following tributaries :—(a) Small vessels which issue from the muscles, ligaments, and bones of the deeper parts of the neck, and the lower and back part of the liead. (/>) Offsets from the intraspinal venous plexuses which pass out of tiic spinal canal by the intervertebral foramina. (c) The anterior deep cervical or anterior vertebral vein, a vessel which is formed by the union of tributaries which issue from a venous plexus which lies in front of the bodies and on the roots of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. This vessel accompanies the ascending cervical artery, and terminates in the lower part of the vertebral vein, immediately after the latter has issued from the foramen in the sixth cervical transvei'se process, {d) The posterior deep cervical (v. cervicalis profunda) or posterior vertebral vein; this commences in the suboccipital triangle from a venous plexus with which the vertebral and occipital veins communicate. It descends behind the transverse processes of the cervical vertebric in company with the profunda cervicis artery, turns forwards at the root of tlie neck, between the transverse processes of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebne or between the latter and the neck of the first rib, and opens into the vertebral vein. It receives blood from the muscles, ligaments, and bones of the back of the neck, (c) The posterior intercostal vein from the first intercostal space some- times opens into it. Occasionally the venous plexus round the vertebral artery ends below in two terminal trunks, anterior and posterior, instead of one. In these cases the second terminal vessel lies behind the lower part of the vertebral artery, passes through the foramen in the transverse process of the seventh cei'vical vertebi'a, and turns forwards on the outer side of the artery to join the anterior trunk, thus forming a common terminal vein whicli ends in the usual manner. Inferior Thyroid Veins (vv. thyreoidecc iuferiores).—Each inferior thyroid vein commences by the union of a series of tributaries which issue from the isthmus and the corresponding lateral lobe of the thyroid body. The two veins descend along the front of the trachea into the superior mediastinum, where the right inferior thyroid vein terminates in the junction of the two innominate veins, and tlie k'ft in the upiper part of the left innominate vein ; or the two veins unite to form a single trunk, wliich usually ends in the left innominate vein, but occa- sionally in the riglit. In their descent through the neck the inferior thyroid veins frequently anastomose togetlier, and sometimes these anastomoses are so frequent and irregular that a venous ■i)l('xus is formed in front of the lower cer\ ical portion of the trachea.