THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 768 part of the roof of the nose, the roof of the pharynx, the sphenoidal sinus, and the lower part of the Eustachian tube, and anastomoses with the Vidian branch of the internal carotid. (/) The spheno palatine branch (a. spheno-palatina) springs from the termination of the internal maxillary artery. It passes inwards through the spheno-palatine foramen into the nasal cavity, where it divides into many branches. One of these, the internal nasal or naso palatine, which is sometimes looked upon as the continuation of the artery, crosses the back part of the roof of the nose, and descends in a groove on the vomer to the incisive foramen where it anastomoses with the termination of the posterior palatine artery and with the septal branch of the superior coronary. The outer or external nasal branches of the spheno-palatine artery supply the greater part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa and the cavity of the antrum, anastomosing with branches of the infraorbital, ethmoidal, and lateral nasal arteries. Branches are also distributed to the ethmoidal cells, to the sphenoidal sinus, and to the upper part of the pharynx. THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY The internal carotid artery (a. carotis interna, Figs. 554, 556, and 559) com- mences at the termination of the common carotid, opposite the upper border of the Vertebral arteries Internal carotid artery Ascenrtint; pliarynseal artery Ascending palatine artery - Stylo-glossus muscle - Stylo-pharynseus muscle - Posterior auricular artery^ Occipital artery^ Facial artery _ Lingual arteiy External carotid artery ^ Superior thyroid artery _ Common carotid artery Vertebral artery - Profunda cervicis artery- Superior inter- costal artery Anastomosis with first aortic inter- costal artery Frontal artery - Nasal artery Ciliary arteries 'Facial artery .Sterno-niastoid artery Crico-thyrnid artery — Thyroid axis artery Subclavian artery — Internal mammary artery — Innominate artery Fio. 556.—The Carotid, Subclavian, and Vertebral Arteries and their Main Branches. thyroid cartilage, and terminates in the middle fossa of the skull, close to the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius, where it divides into tlie middle and anterior cerebral arteries. Course.—It passes through the carotid and subinaxillary triangles, traverses the carotid canal of the temporal bone, crosses the upper part of the foramen lacerum medium, and runs in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus in the middle fossa of the skull. At its origin it lies behind and to the outer side of the external carotid, but as