108 OSTEOLOGY. be placed to one or other side of the internal occipital protuberance, more frequently the right; in some cases, however, it may occupy a central position. The superior angle, more or less sharp and pointed, is wedged in between the two parietal bones, its position corresponding to the site of the posterior fontanelle. The lateral angle articulates on either side with the posterior extremity of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. The sujyerior borders, much serrated, articu- late with the parietal bones forming the lambdoid suture; and the lateral edges, extending from the external angles to the jugular process inferiorly, are connected with the iinier sides of the mastoid portions of the temporals. The lateral or condylic parts of the occipital bone (partes laterales) are placed on either side of the foramen magnum; on their under surface they bear the condyles (condyli occipitales) by means of which the skull articulates with the * atlas vertebra. Of elongated oval form, the condyles are so disposed that their anterior extremities, in line with the anterior margin of the foramen magnum, lie closer together than their posterior ends, which extend as far back as the middle of the external borders of the foramen. Convex from before backwards, they are skewed so that their surfaces, which are nearly plane from side to side, are directed slightly outwards. Each is supported on a boss of bone, pierced by the anterior condylic foramen (canalis hypoglossi), which opens obliquely from within outwards and forwards on the floor of a fossa called the anterior condylic fossa, situated just external to the fore part of the condyle. The foramen transmits the hypoglossal or XII. cranial nerve, together with a meningeal branch of the ascending pliaryngeal artery and its companion veins. Behind the condyle is placed the posterior condylic fossa, in the floor of which the posterior condylic foramen frequently opens. Through this a vein passes which joins the lateral sinus. The edge of the foramen magnum immediately behind the condyle is often grooved for the passage of the vertebral artery around it. Jutting out from the posterior half of the condyle is a stout bar of lione, serially homologous with the vertebral transverse process—this is the jugular process (processiis jugularis); deeply notched in front, its anterior border is free and rounded, and forms the posterior boundary of the jugular foramen. Curving outwards from this margin, in line with the anterior condylic foramen, there is often a small pointed projection, the processus intra-jugulare, which serves to divide the jugular foramen into two compartments. Externally the jugular process articulates by means of a synchondrosis with the jugular surface of the petrous part of the temporal Ijone. Its posterior border is confluent with the lower and lateral portion of the occipital squama, and its under surface is rough and tubercular for the attachment of the rectus capitis lateralis muscle. The superior aspect of the lateral part displays on either side of the foramen magnum an elevated surface of oval form, the tuberculum jugulare ; this corresponds to the part of tlie bone which bridges over the canal for the hypoglossal nerve. Its upper surface in many instances displays an oblique groove running across it; in this are lodged the glosso-pharyngeal, vagus, and accessory nerves. The jugular process is deeply grooved above for the lower part of the lateral blood sinus, which here turns round the anterior free edge of the process into the jugular foramen. Joining this, close to its inner edge, is the opening of the posterior condylic foramen when that canal exists. The basilar part of the occipital lione (pars basilai'is) extends forwards and upwards from the forameii magnum. Its anterior extremity is usually sawn across, as after adult life it is necessary to sever it in this way from the sphenoid, the cartilage uniting the two bones having by that time become completely ossified. Broad and thin behind, it narrows and tliickens anteriorly, where on section it displays a quadrilateral form. Projecting from its under surface some little distance in front of the foramen magnum is the pharjmgeal tubercle (tubercuhnii pharyngeum) to which the flbrous raphe of the pharynx is attached; on either side of this the rectus capitis anticus major and minor muscles are inserted. The upper surface forms a broad and shallow groove which slopes upwards and forwards from the thin anterior margin of the foramen magnum; in this rests the medulla oblongata. On either side its lateral edges are faintly grooved for the inferior petrosal venous sinuses, below which the lateral aspect of the bone is rough for the