702 THE OKGANS OF SENSE. il. trans\-prsus ronticulu Cauda lielic M. obli(nnis Sulcus antiholicis transversus Spina helicis Cartilage of tragus Incisura tcrniinalis auris Cartilage of meatus Fio. 512.- -Inner Surface of Cartila(;e of Pinna (one-half natural size). Ligaments of the Pinna.—The cartilage of the pinna is attached to the skull by two fibrous bands wliicli form its extrinsic ligaments, viz.: («) anterior, stretching from the zygoma to the spina helicis and tragus; and (6) posterior, passing from the eminentia conchae and upper wall of the meatus to the mastoid process. Small liga- mentous bands pass between individual parts of the pinna, and form what are termed its intrinsic ligaments. Muscles of the Pinna (Figs. 511, 512).—The muscles of the pinna are divided into two groups, extrinsic and intrinsic. The extrinsic muscles pass from the pinna to the skull or scalp, and are described in the section upon Myology. The intrinsic muscles, on the other hand, are confined to the })inna and are six in numlier, four on its outer and two on its cranial aspect. (a) On the outer surface (Fig. 511)— 1. M. helicis major, passing upwards from the spina helicis along the ascending part of the helix. 2. M. helicis minor, covering the crus lieHcis. 3. M. tragicus, quadrangular in shape, and consisting of fibres running vertically over the greater part of the tragus. Some of its fibres are prolonged upwards to the spina helicis and constitute the m. pyramidalis. 4. M. antitragicus, covering the antitragus and passing oljliqviely upwards and backwards as far as the antihelix and cauda helicis. (h) On the cranial surface (Fig. 512)— 1. M. transversus auriculae, consisting of scattered fibres, which stretch from the eminentia conchte to the convexity of the helix. 2. M. obliquus auriculae (Tod), comprising a few fasciculi, which run obliquely or vertically across the furrow corre- sponding with the crus antihelicis inferior. A small muscle, the stylo-auricularis, sometimes extends from the root of the styloid process to the cartilage of the meatus. Skin of the Pinna.—The skin covering the pinna is thin and smooth, and is prolonged inwards, in the form of a tube, as a lining to the external auditory meatus. It adheres firmly, on the outer surface of the pinna, to the subjacent perichondrium. Hairs are well developed on the tragus and antitragus, and also in the incisura intertragica, forming the barbula hirci, which guard the entrance to the conclia. Soft downy hairs are found over the greater part of the pinna and point towards Darwin's tubercle. Sebaceous glands, present on both surfaces of the pinna, are most numerous in the concha and fossa triangularis. Sweat glands are found on both surfaces, but are much more numerous on the cranial aspect. Vessels of the Pinna.—The arteries for the pinna are derived—(a) from the .superficial tem- poral, which sends two or three branches to the outer surface ; and (b) from the posterior auricular, wliich gives tliree or four branches to the cranial surface. From the latter, two sets of twigs are prolonged to the outer surface, one turning round the free margin of the helix and the other jjassing through small fissures in the cartilage. Tlie veins from the outer surface open into the superficial temporal vein ; those from the cranial surface chiefly join the posterior auricular A^ein, but some communicate with the mastoid emissary vein. The lymphatics take three directions, viz. : (a) forwards to the preauricular gland in front of the tragus, (h) downwards to the parotid lymphatic glands, and (c) backwards to the highest of the mastoid lymphatic glands. Nerves of the Pinna.—The muscles of the pinna are supplied hy the seventh cranial nerve. The skin receives its sensory nerves from — («) the great auricular, which supplies nearly the whole of tlae cranial surface and sends filaments in company with the branches of the posterior auricular artery to tlie outer surface; (b) the auriculo-temporal, which supplies the tragus and ascending part of the lielix ; (c) the small occipital, which sends a branch to the upper part of the cranial stu-face. External Auditory Meatus. The external auditory meatus (meatus acusticus externus) (Figs. 513, 514) is tlie passage leading inwards from the concha as far as the membrana tympani. Its