OSTEOLOGY. 22G and covered by a bursa, while the lower part i.s rough and serves for the attach- ment of the ligamentum patella?. Considered in its entirety, the upper extremity of the tibia is broader trans- versely than antero-posteriorly, and is inclined backwards so as to overhang the shaft posteriorly. The shaft (corpus tibite) is irregularly three-sided. It is narrowest about the junction of its middle and lower thirds, and expands above and below to support the extremities. Eunning down the front of the bone, there is a gently-curved prominent margin confluent above with the tubercle, but fading away inferiorly on the anterior surface of the lower third of the bone, where it may be traced in the direction of the anterior border of the internal malleolus. This is the crest or shin (crista anterior), which is subcutaneous throughout its entire length. To the inner side of this is a smooth, slightly convex surface, which reaches as high as the internal tuberosity above, and inferiorly becomes continuous with the inner surface of the internal malleolus. This is the internal or subcutaneous surface (facies medialis) of the shaft, which is covered only by skin and superficial fascia, except in its upper fourth, where the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles overlie it, as they pass towards their insertions. This surface is limited posteriorly by the internal border (margo medialis) which passes from the inner and under surface of the internal tuberosity above to the hinder border of the internal malleolus below. This border is rounded and indefinite above and below, being usually best marked about its middle third. To the outer side of the tibial crest is the external surface of the bone (facies lateralis); it is limited behind by a straight vertical ridge, the crista interossea, to which the interosseous membrane, which occupies the interval between the tibia and the fibula, is attached. This ridge commences above, near the middle of the outer and under surface of the external tuberosity, and terminates below about two inches above the lower extremity by dividing into two lines, which separate and enclose between them the surface for articulation with the lower end of the fibula, and the area of attachment of the inferior interosseous ligament, which here unites the two bones. In its upper two-thirds the external surface provides an extensive origin for the tibialis anticus. Inferiorly, where the tibial crest is no longer well defined, the external surface turns forward on to the front of the shaft, and is limited inferiorly by the anterior margin of the inferior articular surface. Over this the tendon ^of the tibialis anticus, and the combined fleshy and tendinous parts of the extensor proprius hallucis and extensor com- munis digitorum muscles pass obliquely downwards. The posterior surface (facies posterior) of the shaft lies between the interosseous ridge externally and the in- ternal border on the inner side. Its contours are liable to considerable variation according to the degree of lateral compression of the bone. It is usually full and rounded above, and flat below. Superiorly it is crossed by the oblique or popliteal line (linea poplitea), which runs downwards and inwards, from the fibular facet above, to the internal border on a level with the junction of the middle with the upper third of the shaft. To this line, as well as to the internal border for some distance below it, the soleus muscle is attaclied. Into the bulk of the triangular area above it the popliteus muscle is inserted. Arising from the middle of the popliteal line there is a vertical ridge, which passes downwards and divides the posterior aspect of the shaft into two surfaces—an external for the tibial origin of the tibialis posticus muscle, and an internal for the flexor longus digitorum muscle. The inferior third of this surface of the shaft is i'ree from muscular attachments, but is overlain by the tendons of the above muscles, togetlier with that of the flexor longus hallucis. A large nutrient canal, having a downward direction, opens on the posterior surface of the shaft a little below the popliteal line and just external to the vertical ridge which springs from it. The inferior extremity of the tibia displays an expanded quadi'angular form. It is furnished with a saddle-shaped articular surface on its under surface (facies articularis inferior), which is concave from before backwards and slightly convex from side to side. This rests upon the superior articular surface of the body of the astragalus, and is bounded in front and behind by well-defined borders. The anterior border is the rounder and thicker, and is oftentimes channelled by a groove