1183 THE NECK. Lelly of the oino-hyoid and the stcriio-hyoid. B}' luakiug an incision along the left anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and passing through this triangle, the surgeon reaches, in order from before backwards, the internal jugular A^ein, the common carotid artery, the vagus, the thoracic duct (on the left side), the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, the inferior thyroid artery, the verte])ral vessels, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the oesophagus. The most important ])ony land- mark in this triangle is the prominent anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra. The common carotid artery may be compressed against this tubercle, which is therefore termed the " carotid tubercle." As it is the most important guide to the vertebral artery, which enters the foramen in its transverse process, it is often referred to as the " vertebral arterial titbercle." In operations in this region, on the left side, it is important to avoid the thoracic duct, which extends upwards into the neck 1 in. vertically above the inner end of the clavicle, and, after arching outwards behind the common carotid, descends behind the lower inch of the internal jugular vein. The cervical portion of the oesophagus, which begins at the level of the cricoid cartilage, descends behind, and a little to the left of, the trachea. To expose it, the surgeon, after passing through the above-mentioned muscular triangle, passes between the trachea and the carotid sheath. In opening the oesophagus care must be taken not to injure the recurrent laryngeal nerve which ascends in the groove between it and the trachea, and also that the loose submucous cellular interval must not be mistaken for the lumen of the tube. The recurrent laryngeal nerve must l»e avoided also in operations connected with the thyroid gland ; it is most liable to lie injured during the application of a ligature to the inferior thyroid artery, which arches inwards in front of the nerve to reach the posterior surface of the gland. The Posterior Triangle.—Imbedded in the deep cervical fascia at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, is a chain of lymphatic glands which lies in close relation to the branches of the cervical plexus; these glands are a frequent source of abscess in pediculosis and impetigo of the scalp. The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, which forms the upper boundary of the supraclavicular division of the posterior triangle, passes beneath the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid at a point about 1 in. above the clavicle. The external jugular vein, usually visible through the skin, runs in a line from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle ; it is the vessel which is generally opened to relieve the right side of the heart in asphyxia. The lumen of the vein is kept patent where it pierces the fascia of the subclavian triangle ; hence a wound of the vein in this situation is liable to 1)0 followed by the suction of air into the circulation during inspiration. The third part of the subclavian artery can be compressed against the first rib by pressing downwards and backwards immediately above the clavicle, a little behind the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. To map out the course of the sub- clavian artery in the neck, draw a line, convex upwards, from the upper border of the sterno-clavicular articulation to the middle of the clavicle, the highest part of the arch to reach from ^ to 1 in. above the bone. To ligature the vessel in the third part of its course, an angular incision is made along the middle of the upper border of the clavicle and the lower part of the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The most important guides to the vessel are the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, the outer border of tlie scalenus anticus, and the scalene tubercle of the first rib. The close relation of the vessel to the lowest trunk of the brachial plexus and to the cervical pleura must be kept in mind. In the rare instances in which a cervical rib is present the subclavian artery lies either in front of it, or arches above it, according to the degree of development of the rib. The subclavian vein lies below, and anterior to the artery, altogether under cover of the clavicle. Entering the posterior triangle from behind the outer border of the scalenus anticus are the trunks of the brachial plexus. They lie. upon the scalenus medius, and can be felt through the skin immediately above and behind the third part of the subclavian artery. The carotid tubercle lies between the anterior primary divisions of the sixth and seventh cervical nerves. The fifth cervical nerve is that which suffers most when the plexus is injured by forcible extension upwards of the arm, such as occurs, for instance, in the " Obstetrical Paralyses " of Duchenne.