SUEFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY 1202 THE UPPER ARM. The anterior and posterior borders of the deltoid may be traced from the shoulder gh-dle to the insertion of that muscle. The surface relations of the anterior ])order ha^ e already been referred to ; the posterior border forms a well-marked and important landmark as it crosses the angle between the axillary border of the scapula and the upper part of the shaft of the humerus. By making an incision along this part of the posterior border of the deltoid, and retracting the edge of the muscle upwards and outwards, we expose the surgical neck of the humerus, the quadrilateral opening in the posterior wall of the axilla transmitting the posterior circumflex artery and the circumflex nerve ; a little lower down is the musculo- spiral nerve. The coraco-brachialis, the guide to the upper half of the brachial artery, forms a prominence occupying the upper half of the internal bicipital f urrow. Traced downwards the internal bicipital furrow widens out into an elongated triangle. This triangle, wliicli may be termed the iiitemal supracondyloid triangle. Head of radiuh External condyle Exten.sur carpi radiaiis loiigior" Mtisculo-.spiral nerve External interninscniar si'iitnni Hiccp: CireuniHex nerve Extensor carpi radiaiis brevior Posterior interosseons nerve Extensor ossis nietaearpi pollicis Middle thecal tubercle Styloid process of third metacarpal Head of ulna Infraspinatus 'J'l icep.s temlim Outer head of triceps Posterior border of deltoid Long liead of triceps Teres major Latissinnis dorsi Posti-rioi' 1 1' lexor carpi ul Extensor carpi nln; I ■ Extensor comiuniiis ilii I Anconeus Tii> of olecranon process mler of ulna nans Fic. 810.—ExTKSsoii Aspect (if Uppkh Limb. becomes continuous ))elow with the inner part of the triangle in front of the ])end of the elbow, and is limited posteriorly by the internal intermuscular septum, which may be felt as a cord-like band extending upwards from the internal condyle; tlie floor of the space is formed by the inner part of the brachialis anticus. Within the triangle are the following important structures, enumerated from without in- wards, : the brachial artery, the median nerve, the lower part of the basilic vein, the internal cutaneous nerve, and the supracondyloid lymphatic glands, two or three in num))er. Extending upwards from the external condyle to the insertion of the deltoid is the external intermuscular septum, which is pierced at the junction of its upper and middle thirds by the musculo-spiral nerve. Between the external intermuscular sejitum and the outer edge of the biceps is the ill-defined external hicipital furrov-, tlie lioor of which is formed ])y a strip of the brachialis anticus, and, nearer the ell tow, by the supinator longus and extensor carpi radiaiis lorigior. The posterior compartment of tlie upper arm is occupied by the triceps, the long head of which can be traced upwards to the axillary border of the scapula in front of the posterior border of the deltoid and behind the posterior fold of the axilla. The outer head of the triceps, after emerging from under cover of the lower part of the posterior border of the deltoid, is continued oblicpiely down the outer aspect of the upper arm as a well-marked muscular elevation. Al>ove the olecranon is the strap-like tendon of insertion of the triceps, which, when the elbow is fully flexed, forms an admirable posterior splint in supracondyloid fractures of the humerus. The brachial artery, slightly overlapped in the upper half of the arm by the coraco-])rachialis and in the lower half by the biceps, can be felt pulsating through- out the whole length of the anterior part of the internal bicipital furrows The