728 THE SKIN OR INTEGUMENT. Stratiini corneum nlStratuiii lucicUiiu Stratum frraimlosum ytratiuii germinativuiii skin assumes a yellowish tinge in old age, while in certain diseases {e.g. icterus and melasma Addisonii) it undergoes marked alteration. The surface of the skin is perforated by the hair follicles and by the ducts of the sweat and sebaceous glands, and on the palms, soles, and flexor aspect of the digits it presents numerous permanent ridges (cristce cutis), which correspond with rows of underlying papilUe. Over the terminal phalanges these ridges form distinctive patterns, which are retained from youth to old age, and may be utilised for purposes of identification. Folds of the skin (retinacula cutis) are seen in the neighbourhood of the joints, and it can be thrown into wrinkles by the contraction of the subcutaneous muscles, where these exist. Over the greater part of the body it is freely movable; but on the scalp and outer surface of the pinna, as well as on the palms and soles, it is bound down to the subjacent tissues. The skin consists of two strata, viz.: a deep, termed the dermis or corium, and a superficial, named the epidermis (Fig. 536). The corium gives elasticity and sensibility to the skin, and consists essentially of a felted interlacement of connective tissue and elastic fibres. In its deeper part, or stratum reticulare, the fibrous bundles are coarse and form an open network, in the meshes of which are vessels, nerves, pellets of fat, hair follicles, and glands. This reticular stratum passes, as a rule, without any line of demarcation, into the panniculus adiposus or subcutaneous fatty tissue, but in some parts it rests upon a layer of striped or unstriped muscular fibres—the latter in the case of the scrotum. In the superficial layer, or stratum papillare, of the corium, the connective tissue- bundles are finer and form a close network. Projecting from its free surface are numerous finger-like, single, or branched elevations, termed papillae (Fig. 537), the free ends of which are received into corresponding depressions on the under surface of the epidermis. These papilke vary in size, being small on the eyelids, but large on the palms and soles, where they may attain a length of 225 n and produce the permanent curved ridges already alluded to. Each ridge usually contains two rows of papillae, between which the ducts of the sweat glands pass to reach the surface. The papillce consist of fine connective tissue and . elastic fibres, mostly arranged parallel to the long axis of the papilla. The majority contain capillary loops, but some the terminations of nerves. The superficial surface of the corium is covered by a thin homo- geneousbasement mem- brane. The epidermis covers the corium; it is non- vascular and consists of stratified epithelium. Its superficial layers are modified to form the stratum corneum or horny layer of the skin, which may be separated by maceration or blistering from the deeper, softer portion, or stratum mucosum (Malpighi). The epidermis consists from within outwards of the following five strata (Fig. 537):— 1. The basilar layer or stratum germinativum, comprising a- single stratum of Fig. 5-37.—Vertical Section of Ei'idermis .\nd (highly maguifleil). Bloofl-vesfsels and nerves Papii.l.e ok Corium