945 THE MOUTH. the abdominal cavity, immediately beneath the diaphragm, and its secretion— the bile—is conveyed into the duodennm by the bile duct. Tlie pancreas, next in size, lies across the front of the vertebral column, vpith its right end or head resting in the concavity of the duodenum, into which its secretion flows through the pancreatic duct. The salivary glands, of which there are three chief pairs—parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual—are placed about the face, and their ducts, which convey the saliva, open into the mouth. Whilst the secretion of these latter undoubtedly possesses some digestive action, and they must conse- quently be classed as digestive glands, nevertheless the saliva is to be looked upon as a mechanical lubricant, which facilitates swallowing and the movements of the tongue in speaking and masticating, rather than as an aid to the digestive process. Accessory Parts.—Under this heading we group the teeth, tongue, gums, palate, and tonsils. The teeth, 32 in number in the adult, are embedded in the .jaws and surrounded by the gums. The tongue is a muscular organ, useful alike in masticating, swallowing, speaking, and in the exercise of the sense of taste, which specially resides in its modified epithelium ; it occupies the greater portion of the floor of the mouth, whilst the roof of that cavity is formed by the hard palate anteriorly, and by the soft palate l)ehind. Finally, the tonsils (Fig. 638) are two large masses of lymphoid tissue, found on the side-walls of the oral portion of the pharynx, just behind the mouth. THE MOUTH. The mouth is the expanded upper portion of tlie digestive tube, specially modified for the reception and mastication of the food. In it we distinguish : the aperture of the mouth placed l»etween the lips ; the vestibule, the slit-like space which intervenes between the teeth and gums internally, and the lips and cheeks externally (Fig. 637); and the cavity of the mouth, which lies within the round of the dental arches, and opens behind into the pharynx through the isthmus of the fauces (Fig. 638). The aperture of the mouth (rima oris) is tlie upper or anterior opening of the alimentary canal, and is bounded above and below by the corresponding lips, which, by their junction at the sides, form the angles of the mouth (commissurse labiorum). In a state of rest, witli the lips in apposition, the rima appears as a shghtly curved line, corresponding in length to the interval l)etween the first premolar teeth, and in level to a line drawn across just below the middle of the upper incisor crowns. The sha,pe of the rima varies with every movement of the lips, from the resting linear form, curved like the conventional l»ow, to a circular or oval shape when the mouth is widely open, or the " pursed up " condition pro- duced hj the contraction of the orldcularis oris. The vestibule (vestibulum oris, Fig. 637) lies immediately within the aperture of the mouth. In the normal resting condition its cavity is practically ol)literated Ijy the meeting of its walls, which reduces it to a. slit-like space. It is limited on the one hand by the deep surface of the lips and cheeks, and on the other l)y the dental arches and gums. Its narrow roof and floor are formed respectively by the reflection of the mucous membrane, from the deep surface of the lips and cheeks to the corresponding gum. This reflection is interrupted in the middle Hne by a small but prominent fold of the mucous membrane, the frenulum, which connects the l)ack of each lip to the front of the gum. The upper frenulum is the Ijetter developed, and is readily brought into view by everting the lip. On the outer wall of the vestibule, opposite the crown of the middle upper molar, is seen, upon a variably developed eminence (Fig. 647), the small opening of Stenson's duct, which conveys the saliva from the parotid gland to the mouth. When the teeth are in contact the vestibule communicates with the cavity of the mouth, only through the small and irregular spaces left between the oppos- ing teeth, and posteriorly by a wider but variable aperture behind the last molars. Advantage i^; .sometime.? taken of the presence of tliLs aperture, whicli lies between the wisdom teeth and the ramus of the jaw, for the introduction of li(_[uid food in certain cases— trismus, anchylosis, etc.—in which the mouth is rigidly closed. 60