905 ABNOEMALITIES OF THE LYMPHATICS. The Inferior Vena Cava. Tile lower ]jart of the iulerior vena cava is sometimes absent, in whieli case the common iliac veins ascend, one on the right and the other on the left of the aorta, to the level of the second lumbar vertebra, where the left common iliac vein receives the left renal vein, and then crosses in front of or liehind the aorta to fuse with the right corresponding vein ; in these cases, therefore, the inferior ^ ena cava commences at the level of the second lumbar vertebra, and it rejjresents only the upper and last-formed part of the ordinary vessel; the common iliac veins, each of Avliich i'ecei\ es the lumbar veins of its own side, are exceptionally long, and they may or may not be united at the pelvic brim by a small transverse anastomosing channel. Occasionally the inferior vena cava does not terminate in the I'ight auricle, but is continuous with the vena azygos major, which is much enlarged, all the inferior caval blood being then caii'ied. to the superior vena cava. In these cases the hejDatic veins open directly into the right auricle without communicating with the inferior vena cava. The lower part of the inferior vena cava sometimes lies to the left instead of to the right of the aorta ; this condition is associated with a long right common iliac vein, which crosses oblic|uely from right to left to join the shorter left common iliac vein. After receiving the left renal vein the misplaced inferior vena cava crosses in front of the aorta, reaching the right side at the level of the second or iirst lumbar vertebra. In other cases, however, the left inferior vena cava continues upwards through the left cms of the dia^jhragm, n.surping the place of a greater or smaller part of the left azygos vein ; having entered the thorax, it may cross to the opposite side and terminate in the vena azygos major, or it nuiy continue upwards on the same side, and after arching over the root of the left lung, descend behind the left auricle, to terminate in the right auricle in the situation of the coronary sinus. In this group of cases also the hepatic veins open sejaarately into the right auricle. The tributaries of the inferior vena cava are also subject to variation. Additional renal, spermatic, ovarian, or suprarenal veins may be present. Two or three lumbar veins of one or both sides may unite into a common trunk which terminates in the inferior vena cava, and the hepatic veins may open separately, or after fusing into a common trunk, into the right auricle near the opening of the inferior vena cava. No explanation of the variations of the inferior vena cava and its tributaries is necessary, beyond the statement that they are due to persistence of jjortions of the cardinal veins which usually disajjpear, and to the persistence of transverse anastomoses and tributaries which usually atrophy, or to modifications of those which ordinarily take part in the formation of the inferior vena caval systeni. The left common iliac vein is short and the right long when the inferior vena cava lies on the left side. The common iliac veins may be absent, the internal iliac veins uniting to form the commencement of the inferior vena cava, into which the external iliac veins open as lateral tributaries. The Veins of the Lower Extremity. The long saphenous vein is not subject to much variation, but the short saphenous vein may terminate by joining the long saphenous, or, after piei'cing the deep fascia in the lower part of the thigh, it may ascend and join the sciatic vein or one of the tributaries of the profunda vein. The venae comites are generally described as terminating in the lower extremity, at the lower part of the popliteal space, but they may ascend as far as Scarpa's triangle; as a matter of fact, although as a rule there is only one large pojDliteal and one large femoral vein, one or more small additional veins usually accompany the popliteal and femoral arteries. In a few cases the jjopliteal vein does not pierce the lower part of the adductor magnus, but ascends behind that muscle and becomes continuous with the profunda vein, the femoral artery being unaccompanied by any large vein during its passage through Hunter's canal. ABNOEMALITIES OE THE LYMPHATICS. Variations of the glands and smaller vessels of the lymj)hatic system are so common that the}' can hardly be regarded as abnormalities ; variations of tlie larger vessels, however, are com- paratively rare. This is especially the case with respect to the two terminal trunks, the thoracic duct and the right lymjohatic duct, the abnormalities of which are interesting and important. When the arch of the aorta is on the right instead of on the left side, the thoracic duct usually terminates in the right innominate vein, in Mdiich case it receives the tributaries which usually open into the right lymjjhatic duct, whilst the corresjjonding area on the left side is drained by lymphatics terminating in a left lymphatic duct which ojjens into the commencement of the left innominate vein. A similar arrangement of the terminal lymphatic trunks sometimes occurs even when the arch of the aorta is in its normal jjosition on the left side. In either case the thoracic duct may commence in the usual way, and after reaching the level of the fifth dorsal vertebra continue upwards on the right side, instead of crossing to the left side, of the vertebral column; more rarely it commences on the lelt side and crosses over to the right at a higher level. In one case in which the thoracic duct opened into the right innominate vein, instead of the left, no trace of a lymphatic duct was discovered on the left side.