37 THE MOUTH AND NOSE. It has already been pointed out (p. 32) that the stomatod;Teal depression lies between the anterior part of the head {i.e. the tissues forming the base of the primary fore-brain) and the pericardial region, and that it is separated posteriorly from the fore-gut by the bucco-pharyngeal membrane. At first it has no distinct lateral boundaries, but subsequently the mandibular arches, which are developed at the sides of the bucco-pharyngeal membrane, project forward beyond it and form lateral limits of the depression. If the stomatodseal space is examined from the front at this period the following boundaries are recognisable. Above and in front Maxillary Mesencephalon Bye in-ocess Mandibular arch Prosencephalon Fig. 29. I. Side view of the head of human embryo about- 27 days old, showing the olfactory pit and the visceral arches and clefts (from His). II. Transverse section through the head of an embryo, showing the relation of the olfactory pits to the fore- brain and to the roof of the stoniatodaeal space. III. Head of human embryo about 29 days old, showing the division of the lower part of the mesial frontal process into the two globular processes, the intervention of the olfactory pits between the mesial and lateral nasal processes, and the approximation of the maxillary and lateral nasal processes, which, however, are separated by the oculo-nasal sulcus (from His). IV. Transverse section of head of embryo, showing the deepening of the olfactory pits and their relation to the hemisphere vesicles of the fore-brain. is the projecting anterior part of the head which is termed the fronto-nasal process, laterally are the mandibular arches, and below and posteriorly is the anterior part of the pericardial region. After a short time the lower ends of the mandibular arches meet in front of the pericardial region, and, fusing together, form the posterior or lower margin of the aperture; simultaneously the lateral boundaries of the space are still further completed by the forward growth of a nodular projection, the maxillary process, from the upper end of each mandibular arch. About the fifteenth day the bucco-pharyngeal membrane disappears, and the stomatodseal space and pharynx are thenceforth continuous. No trace of the bucco-pharyngeal mem- brane is recognisable in the adult, but its position may be represented by an imaginary plane extending from the anterior part of the basi-sphenoid above to the base of the alveolar process of the lower jaw, on its lingual surface, below.