UROGENITAL SYSTEM. 1104 pelvis towards the base of the bladder, where it comes into relation with a branched tubular structure termed the vesicula seminalis. Joined by the duct of the vesicula seminalis^ the vas deferens forms a short canal called the common ejaculatory duct, which teiiuinates l)y opening into the prostatic part of the urethra. The prostate, a partly glandular, partly muscular structure, surrounding the first part of the urethra, and also a pair of small glandular bodies called Cowper's glands, are accessory organs connected with the male reproductive system. The ducts of Cow]^^)er's glands and those of the prostate, like the common ejaculatory ducts, open into the urethra, which thus serves not only as a passage for urine, l)ut also for the generative products. The external genitals are the penis and scrotum. THE TESTIS. The male reproductive glands or testes are a pair of somewhat oval, slightly flattened l)odies of a whitish colour, measurino- a))out an inch and a half in lenwth, one inch from before backwards, and rather less in thickness. Each testis or testicle is placed within the cavity of the scrotum in such a manner that its long axis is directed upwards, slightly forwards, and outwards. The left testis occupies a some- what lower level than the right. The testis (Fig. 751) has two somewhat flattened surfaces, one of which, called the outer surface (facies lateralis), looks outwards and l)ackwards ; while the other, or in7ier surface (facies medialis), looks inwards and for- wards. These two surfaces are se})arated by two rounded borders. Of these the anterior border (margo anterior) is the more convex, and is free, while the posterior border (margo posterior) is less rounded, and is the one by which the organ is sus- pended within the scrotum. To the posterior border is attached a structure called the epididymis, ami also the lowest portion of the spermatic cord. Each border ends Frc. 751. A. The right testis and epididynii.s, seen withiu tlie tunica vaginalis, which has been opened ny. B. The right testis and epididymis seen from behind, alter complete removal of the parietal iiortiou of the tuniua vaginalis. C. Diagram to illustrate the structure of the testis and epi<lidymis. if. VI. a.m' h. Coni vasculosi. Epiiliilyinis. Globus major. , Globus minor. Hydatids. )'. c. Rete testis. Septula testis. ■i.r. Spennatic cord. x.t. Seminiferous tubule t. Testis. I. v. Tunica vaginalis. /.«'. Cut edge of tunica vaginalis. v.d. Vas deferens. ■o.e. Vas efferens. v.r. Tubuli recti. above in the upper and l)elow in the lower extremity of the testis (extremitas superior et extremitas inferior). Owing to the obliquity of the long axis of the gland, the upper extremity of the testis lies on an anterior and external plane to the lower one. Epididymis. — In connexion with the testis is the epididymis, which is composed of the first much convoluted portion of the duct of the gland. The epididymis is a somewhat- crescentic structure, curved round the posterior border,