674 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. Another account of the development of the sympathetic system, supported by high authority, describes the gangliated cord as an outgrowth of the dorsal ganglia of the spinal nerves. It is said that each ganglion gives off a bud at its lower end, which, grow- ing inwards into the splanchnic area, becomes attached to the trunk of the spinal nerve just beyond the union of the dorsal and ventral roots. The bud still extending inwards into the splanchnic area, remains associated with the nerve by an attenuated stalk. These buds become the ganglia, M'hich, after reaching their permanent place in the splanchnic area, are supposed to extend upwards and downwards so as to coalesce and form a beaded chain of ganglia. The stalks con- necting the ganglia with the spinal nerves become the white rami com- municantes. This mode of develop- ment does not satisfactorily account for several impoi'tant features of the sympathetic system—the de- velopment of those parts of the gangliated cord which possess no white rami, the absence of a real segmental character in the cord (remarkably shown in the foetus), and the constancy of continuity in the gangliated cord. No instance is recorded of a hiatus between two ganglia. It is a tempting view on the other hand, as it ascribes to the one germinal layer (epiblast) the formation of all the elements of the nervous system, and it brings the sympathetic ganglia into serial homology with isolated ganglia on the cranial nerves {e.g. the ciliary, spheno-palatine, and otic, on the trigeminal nerve). Fig. 483.—Section through the Sympathetic Gangliated Cord of an Embryo. Showing the connexion with the ganglion (Sy) of the white ramus communicans (Spl) ; (a) a portion of the ramus join- ing the ganglion ; (/3) fibres passing over the cord, accom- panied by a stream of cells ; (7) continuous with those of the ganglion ; (Ao) Aorta. The Morphology of the Sympathetic System. From a coiisideration of its structure, functions, and development, there appear to be two sejjarate structures represented in the sympathetic nervous system—the spinal and the sym- pathetic elements. The structure of the system presents a union of two distinct elements—fibres of cerebro-spinal nerves and "sympathetic" cells and fibres. While the function of the gangliated cord and its branches seems to be absolutely dependent upon the cerebro-spinal nervous system, it is certain that the cells and fibres of the sympathetic system possess a vital activity apart from their connexion with the central nervous system. In the development of the symijatlietic it is at least highly probable that a mesoblastic rudiment or precursor forms the basis of the sympathetic system, which is secondarily joined by nerve fibres from the roots of the spinal nerves. Morphologically this part of the nervous system is essentially a longitudinal cord or column, associated with involuntary muscles and glandular tissues, and particularly related to the organs in the splanchnic area. Like other longitudinal structures in the body, and especially like the organs of the splanchnic area, the sympathetic system is not truly segmental. The gangliated cord is only quasi-segmental, the segmentation being attributable to its junction with the visceral branches of the spinal nerves. The peripheral branches from the gangliated cord are not segmental; even the gray rami are not properly metameric, but, like the ganglia, assume^ segmental character in consequence of their connexions with the spinal nerves. The phylogenetic relation of the sympathetic and the cerebro-spinal elements in the system it is impossible to determine. It may be that the sympathetic system is the representative of an ancient architecture independent of the cerebro-spinal nervous system, the materials of which are utilised for a more modern nervous system ; or it may be that the correlation of spinal nerves and sympathetic are both the consequences of the formation of new organs and structures in the splanchnic area. Examined in every light, it possesses features which efi'ectually differ- entiate it from the cerebro-spinal system, although it has become inextricably united with it and subservient to it.