OSTEOLOGY. 88 ance in the alae of the 26th vertebra. He thus assumes that the a\(e of the 25th vertebra may be regarded as the main and j)rimary attachment with the ilium. His conclusions, based on a large number of oliservations, are at variance with Rosenburg's views, for, according to his opinion, liberation of the tirst sacral segment is more common than assimilation with the fifth lumliar vertebra, and assimilation of the first coccygeal vertebra with the sacrum is more common than liberation of the fifth sacral, thus leading to the inference that the sacrum tends to shift back- wards more often than forwards. Ossification of the Vertebrae.—The vertebrae are developed by ossification of the cartilage which surrounds the notochord and which passes backwards over the sides of the neural canal. The centres for the bodies first appear in the lower thoracic vertebrfe about the tenth week. An oval nucleus develops in each body. At first it is placed dorsal to the noto- choi'd, but subsequently surrounds and causes the disappearance of that structure. Occasionally, however, the primitive centre appears to be formed by the coalescence of two primary nuclei. Support is given to this view by the occasional occurrence of vertebra) in which the body is developed in two lateral halves, or in cases whei'e only one-half of the body persists (Turner) ; normally, however, it is impossible to make out this division. From these single nuclei the bodies are developed, the process extending up and down the column until, by the fifth month, all the centra jjossess ossific deposits, except the coccygeal segments. About the seventh week a single centre apj^ears in the entre for body Fig. 67.—Ossification OF Vertebh.e. Fig. 68.—Ossification of Vektebr.e. Cervical vertebra. 1. Centre for body. 2. Superior epiphysial plate. ■3. Anterior bar of transverse process developed by lateral extension from pedicle. 4. Neuro-central synchondrosis. h. Inferior epiphysial plate. Lumbar certebra. 6. Body. 7. Superior epiphysial plate. 8. Ejiiphysis for niammillary process. 9. Epiphysis for transverse process. 10. Epiphysis for spine. 11. Xeiiro-central synchondrosis. 12. Inferior epiphysial plate. horsal vertebra. Centre for body. Superior epiphysial plate, appears about puberty ; unites at 25th year. Neuro-central synchondrosis does not ossify till 5th or 6th year. , Appears at puberty ; unites at 25th year. 17. Ajipears at puberty ; unites at 25th year. 18. Appears about 6th week. Axis. 19. Centre for transverse process and neural arch ; 20. Synchondroses close about 3rd year. 21. Centre for summit of odontoid process ; appears ■3rd to 5th year, fuses 8th to 12th year. 22. Ajipears about 5th or 6th month ; unites with opposite side 7th to 8th month. 23. Synchondrosis closes from 4th to 6tli year. 24. Inferior epiphysial plate ; appears about puberty, luiites about 25th year. 25. Single or double centre for body ; appears about 5th month. A this. 26. Posterior arch and lateral masses developed from a single centre on either side, which appears about 7th week. 27. Anterior arch and portion of superior articular surface developed from single or double centre, appearing during 1st year. Dorsal vertebra. 28. Epiphysis for transverse process ; appears about puberty, unites about 25th year. 29. Epiphysis appears about puberty ; unites about 25th or 27th year. 30. Centre for body on either side of neural arch ; appears about 6th or 7th week, the laniinse unite from birth to 15th month. 31. Centre for body ; ai)pears about 6th week, unites with neural arch from 5th to 6th year. appears about 8th month. neural arch on either side. These commence first to ossify in the upper cervical region and extend rapidly downwards througliout the column. They first appear near the bases