1143 DEVELOPMENT OF THE UROGENITAL OEGANS. HUr-eter even in the adult, traces of its original subdivision into lobules. Each lobe corresponds to a medullary pyramid of the adult and its surrounding cortex. As the ureter in- creases in length, it becomes sejjarated from the Wolffian duct, and acquires a distinct opening into the anterior part of the cloaca nearer the head of the embryo than that of the Wolffian duct. This part of the cloaca receiving the ureters becomes the bladder. Bladder.—^The bladder is formed from the upper part of the anterior subdivision of the cloaca (Figs. 780 and 781), which increases in width as the openings of the ureters become shifted further from one another. Inferiorly the anterior part of the cloaca remains narrow, and is continuous with the upper part of the urogenital canal. At a very early stage the triangiilar sur- face, known in the adult as the trigonum vesicae, is to be recognised. From the cephalic end of the developing bladder the allantoic canal extends to the umbilicus ; but the allantois loses its lumen in the fifth week, and the portion enclosed within the body of the embryo, and known as the urachus, be- comes converted into the iibrous cord found in the adult connected with the bladder apex. The cavity of the allantois is sometimes not lost so early, and in rare cases it has been found persisting in the child or adult as a pervious channel extending from the apex of the bladder to the umbilicus. Here it may open on the surface of the body. By some authorities the bladder is stated to arise as a dilatation of the proximal part of the allantois rather than from the cloaca itself. The distinction, however, does not seem to be important, and probably both the cloaca and the allantois share in its formation. Male Urethra. — The urethra in the male is composed of two parts which ai'e developmentally distinct. One of these corre- sponds to the prostatic and membranous portions of the adult, and owes its origin to the endodermal cloaca, while the other part corresponds to the spongy portion of the adult, and arises in connexion with the ectodermal cloacal fossa and sexual eminence (Fig. 782). The upper part of the prostatic urethra has an origin similar to that of the bladder, and is derived from the upper portion of the uro- genital subdivision of the cloaca ; the lower prostatic and the membranous parts are formed from the urogenital canal of the embryo. The spongy portion of the adult urethi'a Fig. 782.— Dia(;baiimatic Representation and Comparison of the Manner in which the Uro- genital Passages arise in the two Sexes. In each case the li)'poblast is indicated Ijy a thick black line, while the epiblast is .shown by a double line with cross shading. A. Represents a stage passed through by both sexes, and illustrates the connexions of the urogenital ducts and of the rectum with the ectodermal cloaciil fossa ; yd, indicates the position where the Wolffian and Miillerian ducts open into the urogenital canal ; ge, genital eminence ; ugs, urogenital canal. Male condition. The greater portion of the urethral canal is ectodermal in origin, and is derived from the ectodermal cloacal fossa and the groove on the genital eminence by the meeting of their lateral boundaries. (The portion of the canal which is usually the last to be closed in is indicated at.^'.) The upper part of the urethra is hypoblastic in origin. The position where the genital ducts (in the male represented by the vasa deferentia and uterus masculinus) join the urogenital canal is indicated at vd ; s, symphysis pubis. Female condition. Owing to the shortening of the urogenital canal {iifjf, in A) the \irethral and genital openings come to lie in the bottom of the urogenital fissure. The deepest p,art of this fissure, immediately surrounding the openings, is formed by hypoblast derived from the urogenital canal.