1091 THE BLADDER from the openings of the ureters, but on a lower level. The size and shape of the bladder, and also to a great extent its relations, vary with the amount of disten- sion, or contraction, of tlie organ. When the bladder is empty, or only slightly distended, it lies within the pelvic cavity; as it becomes filled with urine it rises above the pubis, and, crossing the pelvic l)rim, enters the alxlominal cavity. These Fig. 737.—Mesial Section through the Male Pelvis. Tilt! bladder contaiuti but a small amount of tiuid. The seiiaration between the bladder and prostate is shown somewhat diagrammatioally. Drawn from a preparation in the Anatomical Department, Trinity College, Dnblin. changes affect chieily the upper part of the liladder, which Ijecomes altered in shape and size, and acquires new connexions and relations; the lower portion varies ljut slightly with the amount of distension of the organ (see Figs. 737 and 738). The position occupied by the bladder depends, to a certain extent, on the condi- tion of the rectum, for when the lower part of the rectum is distended, the bladder as a whole is thrust somewhat upwards and forwards. The upper part of the bladder is covered by peritoneum, which is refiected on to it from the anterior al)dominal wall in front, from the sides of the pelvis laterally, and, in the male, from the rectum behind. In the female the peritoneum passes from the anterior surface of the uterus on to the bladder. The peritoneum dips down posteriorly for a certain distance between the bladder and rectum in the male, forming the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum; in the female a ■ somewhat similar pouch is present ))etween the bladder and the uterus (Fig. 744). The under part of the bladder which lies below the peritoneum is for the most part directed towards the pelvic Moor. In the middle line it is supporte'd by the symphysis pubis and the retro-pubic pad of fat; further back in the male it rests upon the prostate and on the lower part of the rectum, from which latter it is separated by