LATEEAL AND MESIAL FILLETS. 497 nucleus may, by the posterior longitudinal fasciculus, reach the facial nerve, and through it the orbicularis oris. In this manner, therefore, the same nucleus would hold sway over the tongue and the sphincter muscle of the lips. The close relation which exists between the ascending part of the intrapontine portion of the facial nerve and the posterior longitudinal bundle would render the passage of fil^res from one to the other a matter which could easily be understood. Another interchange of filjres through the posterior longitudinal bundle has been described by Duval and Laborde. According to these authorities, fibres from the abducent nucleus ascend in the posterior longitudinal bundle into the mesencephalon, and, ci'ossing the mesial plane, pass out with the opposite oculo-motor nerve for the supply of the internal rectus muscle. If this view be correct, it affords a ready and simple anatomical explanation of the harmonious action of the external and internal recti muscles in producing movements of the two eyeballs simultaneously to the right and to the left. Lateral Fillet (lemniscus lateralis).—The lateral lillet is a defiuite tract of longitudinal fibres, which extends upwards through the lateral part of the teg- mental substance of the upper portion of the pons and the mesencephalon. It is formed by the fibres of the corpus trapezoides in the lower part of the pons, abruptly turning upwards and taking a course towards the quadrigeminal region. Entering into its consti- tution, therefore, are fibres from several sources, viz. (1) from the terminal cochlear nuclei of the opposite side; (2) from the terminal cochlear nuclei of the same side; (3) from the superior olivary nuclei. As the tract proceeds upwards a continuation of the gray matter of the superior olivary nucleus is carried up in connexion with it to form the nucleus of the lateral fillet, and from this fibres are also added to the strand. In the mesencephalon the fibres of the lateral fillet end in the nucleus of the inferior quadrigeminal body (p. 493) and in the gray substance of the corpus geniculatum internum, whilst a few are carried into the superior quadrigeminal body. The fibres which go to the inferior quadrigeminal body sweep outwards round the outer side of the superior cerebellar peduncle, and to some extent appear on the surface of the mesencephalon (p. 491). But the lateral fillet cannot be considered as a tract comiDosed entirely of ascending fibres belonging to the auditory system. It also contains descending fibres, the connexions and functions of which are not fully understood. These have been traced by Fei'rier and Turner through the pons and medulla into the lateral column of the cord. Mesial Fillet (lemniscus mesialis).—The mesial fillet has already been followed through the medulla and pons, and its position in each of these portions of the brain-stem has been defined (pp. 456 and 467). In the tegmentum of the lower part of the mesencephalon it is carried up in the form of a more or less flattened band on the ventral aspect of the decussating superior cerebellar peduncles. To its outer side, and forming an angle with it (as seen in transverse section), is the lateral fillet (Figs. 367 and 368), and at this level there is no clear demarcation between these two tracts. In the upper part of the mesencephalon the appearance of the red nucleus in the tegmentum causes the mesial fillet to take up a more lateral and dorsal position, so that it now comes to lie subjacent to the corpus geniculatum internum (Fig. 366, p. 495). At this level it exhibits a crescentic outhne in trans- verse section, and the lateral fillet has to a large extent disappeared from its outer side. The mesial fillet takes origin in the lower part of the medulla oblongata from the gracile and cuneate nuclei of the opposite side (p. 457). Seeing that the posterior column of the cord ends in these nuclei, the fillet may be considered to continue that colunm upwards into the brain. In the mesencephalon a consider- able contribution of fibres is given by the mesial fillet to the superior quadrigeminal body, and then the remainder of the tract proceeds through the subthalamic teg- mental region into the hinder part of the lateral nucleus of the optic thalamus. 32 Fig. 369.—Diagram of the Con- NKXIONS of the POSTERIOR LONOri'DDINAL BUNDLE (after Held—nioditied).