572 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. supply the multifidns spina; muscle; others, piercing the great sacro-sciatic ligament, form secondary loops beneath the gluteus maximus muscle. From the secondary loops, two or more cutaneous branches arise, whicli, after traversing the muscle, supjjly the skin of the buttock. Posterior Sacro-coccygeal Nerve.—The posterior divisions of the fourth and fifth sacral nerves do not divide into internal and external brandies. They unite together, and, descending behind the coccyx, receive the minute posterior primary division of the coccygeal nerve. The union of the three nerves constitutes the posterior sacro-coccygeal nerve, whicli, after perforating the sacro-sciatic ligament, is distributed to tlie skin in the neighbourhood of the coccyx. It supplies no muscles. This nerve is the representative of the superior caudal trunk of tailed animals. Morphology of the Posterioi! Primary Divisions. There are several points of niorpliological interest in relation to tlie posterior jirimary divisions of the .spinal nerves. 1. Muscular Distribution.—In tlieir muscular distribution they are strictly limited to the longitudinal iniisclcs of the Ijack : namely, those associated with the axial skeleton. 2. Cutaneous Distribution.—Their cutaneous distribution represents two points of interest. A. In the tir.st jilace, while the skin of the back is supplied in a regularly segmental manner by the several nerves, certain of them fail to reach the surface to become cutaneous. The absence of a cutaneous branch from the suboccipital nerve may be due either to the absence of a perfect dorsal root or to its communication with the second nerve. The other nerves which do not usually supply the skin are the seventh and eighth cervical, and the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves. These nerves are placed in the centre of regions in which the ujiper and lower limbs are developed. They are minute nerves, while the corresponding anterior jirimary divisions are among the largest of the spinal nerves. Thus opposite the centre of each limb, jjosteriorly, there is a hiatus in the segmental distril)ution of the jjosterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves to the skin of the shoulder and buttock, associated with the formation of the limbs, and the extension into them of the greater part of the nerves of the region. This gap, in the case of the ujijier limb, commences at the level of tlie vertebra prominens ; in the case of the lower limb it commences ojjiiosite tlie level of the posterior supei'i<jr iliac spine. It can be continued on to each limb as a hypothetical area (the dorsal axial line), which indicates the area of contact (and over- lapjjing) ef cutaneous nerves not in strictly numerical sequence. Thus, in the region of the shoulder, the sixth (or fifth) cervical nerve innervates an area of skin adjoining that supplied by the first thoracic nerve ; in the region of the buttock the third lumliar nerve sujiplies an area contiguous with that supplied by the first sacral nerve. B. The cutaneous Ijranches of the posterior j^rimary divisions of the sjjinal nerves difl^er from the muscular branches in their j^enetration into regions beyond those suj^jjlied by their motor I'oots. The cutaneous branches, in regions where outgrowth or extension from the trunk lias occurred, follow this outgrowth ; and, in consequence, supjsly skin covering parts which do not belong to segments represented by the nerves in question. Thus the second and third cervical nerves (great and least occipital) are drawn ujjwards so as to supply the posterior part of the scalp ; the upper thoracic nerves are drawn outwards over the scapular region; the upper lumbar and sacral nerves supply the skin of the buttock; and the sacro-coccygeal nerve forms a rudimentary caudal nerve. 3. Plexuses. — The plexuses formed by the posterior primary divisions of the upper cervical and upper sacral nerves are the simplest met with in the human body. Tlie posterior cervical plexus is one from which muscular branches are suiJiilied ; the posterior sacral ])lexus is mainly concerned in producing cutaneous offsets. In the case of the posterior cervical plexus the loops of communication between the first three or four cervical nerves result ill the formation of a series of nerves for the supply of the senii-spinalis, complexus, and other muscles, which bring into contact with these muscles, simultaneously, a considerable area of the spinal cord, and provide a combined and simultaneous innervation for the several parts of each nuiscle, which has thus an extensive source of energy in the spinal cord. In the case of the posterior sacral plexus, the formation of loops between the nerves results in the innervation of any given sjjot in the cutaneous area supplied from these loops by more than one spinal nerve. As has been said already, the cutaneous nerves, even without the formation of plexuses, overlap in their cutaneous distribution. The formation of a plexus causes a more intimate union of neighbouring spinal nerves, so that stimulation of the surface affects a wider area in the spinal cord than if the nerves passed sejiarately to the surface. While segmentation V)ecomes less obvious, increased co-ordination is effected both of movement and sensation. ANTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. The anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves are, with the exception of the first two cervical nerves, much larger than the corresponding posterior primary divisions. Composed of elements of both dorsal and ventral roots, each nerve