THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1028 tlie fifth Week, as a small outgrowtli of tlie wall of tlie primitive gut (mid-gut), not vet dift'erentiated into small and large intestines. At tliLs time the outgi'owth is of the same size thi'ougliout, and is practically equal to the intestines in diameter. About the eleventh week, whilst the large and small Ijowels are still of the same width, it has increased ^•ery considerably in length (being equal to about five times tlie diameter of the small intestine, and thus being i-elatively as long as in the adult); but even at this early date the basal portion, for about one- fifth of its lengtli, is quite as wide as the intestine, wliilst the remaining four-fifths of the out- growth—the future a])])endix—is only about one-half or one-third the diameter of the gut. From this it is seen that the distal portion of tlie outgrowth, which subsecpieutly becomes the vermiform i)rocess, begins to lag l)eliind even at this early jieriud of its develoinuent. The Ijasal portion continues to expand with the gut; the distal jiart grows rapidly enough in length, but otherwise enlarges very slowly, so that, towards the end of fcEtal life, the Ciecum has attained a conical shape, the wider end joining the ascending colon, the narrow end tapering gradually and passing into the vermiform jirocess. This form, known as the infantile type of c;ecuni, is retained for some time after birth, or e\'en may (in "2 or 3 per cent of cases) persist throughout life. As early as the sixth or seventh month of fcctal life the wall of the terminal portion of the small intestine adheres to the inner side of the ciecuni for some distance below tlie ileo-ciecal orifice. And this connexion, which is rendered more intimate by the passage of two folds of jieritoneum, one on the front, the other on the back, between the two parts, iirofoundly modifies the sidisequent growth of the ca'cuni, and determines very lai'gely its adult form. For, when the c;ecum begins to expand, the inner asjject is prevented, by its connexion with the termination of the ileum, from enlarging as freely as the rest of the wall; in consequence of this the outer ])art grows and expands much more rajndly, producing the lop-sided appearance already referred to, and soon comes to form the lowest part or fundus of tlie ciecuni, and tlie greater part of its sac; whilst the original apex, with the vermiform appendix springing from it, anchoi'ed, as it were, to the end of the ileum, is thrust to one side, and finally lies on the inner and posterior aspect of the caecum, a little way below, and usually posterior to, the end of the ileum. Tlie ])osition of the caecum varies at difl'erent periods of foetal life. About the eleventh or twelfth week it lies immediately beneath the liver, and to the left of the middle line ; it then gradually travels to the right, crossing the de.scending duodenum, and is found lying on the right side, just beneath the liver, at the fourth montli. From this it descends slowly to its adult jwsition, which it usually approaches towards the end of fcctal life, l)ut it may not actually I'each it until some time after birth. An imperfect descent gives ri.se to tlie lumljar position of the caecum, or an excess in this direction to the pelvic positicm (referred to on ]>. 1026). Types of Csecuni.—Three chief types of caecum may be distinguished—Uiefa'tal type, conical in shaix' and nearly ■ symmetrit'al, with the lower end gradually jiassiug into the vermiform ap])ennix ; the iiifaritiie, in which the passage front the c;ecum to the vermiform process becomes more abrupt, the outer wall more prominent, and the whole sac more unsynimetrical; and the lop- sided adult form, as described above, which is the condition found in 93 or 94 per cent of adults. Structure.—Nothing in the arrangement of tlie mucous and submucoiis coats calls for special notice. The taenia; or longitudinal bands of the muscular coat all spring from the base of the vermiform ayipendix (l^ig. 696); the anterior runs up on the front, internal to the main prominence of the ca3cum; the postero-external runs up behind this ])romineucc ; whilst the postero-intenial passes directly upwards behind the ileum (Fig. 696). The longitudinal fibres oil the upper aspect of the ileum partly join the postero- internal taenia; those on the front and back join the circular fibres of the large gut. The serous coat has, in connexion with it, certain folds and fossae which are described at p. 1030. Vermiform Process or Appendix Cseci (Eig. 698).—The appendix is a worm- like tuliular outgrowth which springs from the iuiier and hack part of the csecuiu about 1 to 1}t inches (2'5 to 3'75 cin.) behiw the ileo-Ccecal orifice. From this it generally runs in one of three chief directions, namely—(1) over the brim, into the pelvis; (2) upwards behind the cpecum; or (3) upwards and inwards towards the spleen ; each of which lias been considered to be the normal position by one or more oljservers. In the first of these situations it is quite evident as it hangs over the pelvic brim; in order t() expose it in the second, the caecum mitst be turned upwards; whilst, in the third position, it lies behind the end of the ileum and its mesentery, and these must be raise'd up in order to display it. In addition to the positions just mentioned, it has been found in almost every possible situation in the abdomen which its lengtli woidd allow it to attain. In every case the anterior tainia of the crecum, which is always distinct, offers tlie surest guide to the process, the liase of which can he located with certainty by following this tfenia to the back of the cfecum (Fig. 696). Its size is almost as variable as its position. Taking tlie average of ntimerous measurements, its length may be given as about oh inches (92 mm., Berry), audits