THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 754 intervening intervertebral discs, the anterior common ligament, and the left lumbar veins ; the lumbar and the middle sacral arteries spring from this aspect of the vessel. In front, and in close relation with it, there are from above downwards the following structures : the coeliac axis and solar plexus, the pancreas and splenic vein, the superior mesenteric artery, the left renal vein, the third part of the duodenutTi, the root of the mesentery, the aortic plexus, the inferior mesenteric artery, the peritoneum and coils of small intestine. More superficially the stomach, the transverse colon, and the great omentum are in front. On the right side, in the upper part of its extent, are the thoracic duct and receptaculuni Hepatic veins Inferior phrenic artery Suprarenal body Inferior vena cava Renal artery Renal vein Right ovarian vein Ovarian artery Ureter. Psoas muscle Ascending colon Common iliac vein Common iliac artery Middle sacral artery Ileum - C«cum External iliai arter\ External iliac vein Urachus CEsophagus Crus of diaphragm Inferior phrenic artery Suprarenal body Cceliac axis Suprarenal vein Superior mesenteric artery Renal artery Henal vein Ijumbariarteries Ureter Left colic artery Ovarian artery Inferior mesenteric artery Descending colon Psoas muscle Common iliac artery ~ Sigmoid arterj- Common iliac vein Superior hemor- rhoidal artery Iliac colon Pelvic colon External iliac artery External iliac vein- Fallopian tube Uterus Fig. 553.—The Abdominal Aohta and its Branches. chyli, the vena azygos major, and the right crus of tlie diaphragm, the latter separat- ing it from the right semilunai' ganglion and from the upper part of the inferior vena cava. In its lower part it is in direct relation with the inferior vena cava. On the left side, the left crus of the diaphragm with the left semilunar ganglion, and the foui'th part of the duodenum, are in close relation with its upper part, whilst in the lower portion of its extent the peritoneum and some coils of the small intestine are in contact with it. Branches.—The branches form two groups, visceral and parietal, and each group consists of paired and unpaired vessels, as follows:—