1156 THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. originally separate and distinct rudiments which arise independently of each other—viz. a median rudiment and two lateral rudiinents. The median thyroid rudiment arises as a liypoblastic evagination or tubular diverti- culum from the floor or ventral wall of the piiarynx (Fig. 28, F.C, p. 35). The point at which tliis occurs is in front of the second visceral arches, at the junction between the basal portion of the tongue and that part of the organ which is developed from the tuberculum impar (see pp. 36 and 963). The foramen caecum on the dorsum of the adult tongue represents the upper persistent part of the median thyroid diverticulum. The median thyroid rudiment is at first in the form of a short hypoblastic outgrowth which extends downwards towards the front of the larynx. It rapidly elongates, and its terminal extremity bifurcates and comes to lie in front of tlie upper ])art of the trachea. This bifurcated extremity forms the isthmus of the thyroid body, and probably also a jJortion of each lateral lobe. The portion of the diverticulum which intervenes between the foramen cajcum and the isthmus is termed the thyro-glossal duct. It very early loses its lumen, and becomes converted into a solid cord of epithelial cells. The lower part of this usually persists as the pyramidal lobe, whilst the remainder becomes broken up into detached parts. Certain of these fragments may persist as accessory thyroid glands, and indicate the course pursued by the original thyro-glossal duct. Cases in which jjortions of the thj'ro-glossal duct not only persist but remain patent occasion- ally occur. The rare occurrence of a lingual duct, which extends from the foramen csecum downwards through the tongue towards tiie hyoid bone, is accounted for in this manner. The lateral thyroid rudiment of each side arises as a saccular hypoblastic diverticulum from the pharyngeal side of the fourth visceral cleft (see p. 34). It comes into relation with the lateral aspect of the larynx, and becoming cut oft' from the cavity of the pharynx, it joins with the isthmus or median rudiment toiform the greater part of the lateral lobe of the thyroid body. The thyroid body in its primitive condition and in each of its three parts is epithelial. Soon it is invaded by connective tissue and blood-vessels, but the hypoblastic epithelium is retained as the cellular lining of its constituent vesicles. Parathyroids. The parathyroid glands are two minute structures which lie iu more or less close relation to each lateral lobe of the thyroid body. They are apt to be mistaken for accessrjry thyroids, but in structure they are different. One, more constant in position than the other, is situated on the posterior aspect of the oesophagus at the level of the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, and in more or less intimate relation to the posterior border of the lateral lobe of the thyroid body. The second parathyroid body is placed either in close apposition with the lower border of the lateral lobe of the thyroid, or on the trachea at a varying distance below it. The inferior thyroid artery intervenes between the two parathyroid bodies (Welsh). The parathyroid bodies are composed of epithelial cells, and in structure bear a close resemblance to the anterior lobe of the pituitary body. It has been shown that the removal of the four parathyroids from the cat is followed by very severe symptoms, and in two cases out of three death ensued in the course of a few days (Welsh). THYMUS GLAND. The thymus gland can only be studied to advantage in the later period of foetal life or in early childhood. It attains its maximum development towards the end of the second year, and from this time on it dwindles away until very little of it is left. In the new-born child it is of a pinkisli colour, and is composed of two lateral lobes, separated by an intervening fissure, which are very seldom of equal size. The main portion of the gland'is placed within the thorax, but the two lobes end above in two blunt prolongations which are carried upwards for a varying distance into the neck. The thoracic portion of the thymus gland, in its fully-developed condition, is placed in the superior and anterior mediastinal spaces, and as a rule it extends downwards as far as the level of the fourth costal cartilages. The mediastinal pleura and lung are applied to it on either side, whilst the sternum and costal cartilages are in close relation to it in front. The deep surface of the thymus is