THE PEIMITIVE ALIMENTAEY CANAL. 31 THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PEIMITIVE ALIMENTAEY CANAL. When the cephalic, caudal, and lateral folds are established, and the general outline of the embryo is clearly defined, its dorsal and lateral surfaces and its anterior and posterior extremities are easily recognisable, and, as the embryo is folded off' from the surface of the blastodermic vesicle, a portion of the blastodermic cavity is enclosed within it; this is the primitive alimentary canal. It is simply an incomplete tubular cavity, situated beneath the notochord, which is bounded in front by the head fold, behind by the tail fold, and laterally by the lateral folds, but is widely open below and continuous with tlie cavity of the yolk sac. As the head of the embryo grows more rapidly than any other part, the head fold is more marked than the other folds, and with its formation the pericardial area is bent round until it becomes ventral in position, its original upper and lower surfaces being reversed (Tig. 25). It is owing to this change of relative position Spinal cord Notocliord Bueco-pharyngeal membrane Fig. 25.—Diagram op a Developing Ovum, seen in Longitudinal Section. The folding off of the embryo has commenced, and the downward bend of the head fold in front has invagi- nated the amniotic area. The tail fold is partly formed, and the primitive alimentary canal, closed in front by the bucco-pharyngeal membrane and behind by the cloacal membrane, is distinguishable ; it communicates freely with the yolk sac by a wide umbilical aperture. C. Coelom. EN. Entoderm. SoM. Somatic mesoderm. EC. Ectoderm. M. Mesoderm. SpM. Splanchnic mesoderm. at that the ventral wall of the alimentary canal is completed in front, and it is obvious that its anterior limit corresponds to the bucco-pharyngeal area of the blastoderm. The part so closed in constitutes the fore-gut. The tail fold at this period is small, but it limits the primitive gut behind. The ventral closing of the posterior end of the primitive alimentary canal to form a hind-gut is produced, as in the case of the fore-gut, by bending of the embryonic area. This takes place in the region of the tail fold; but the posterior part of the embryonic area retains for a considerable time its original position, and forms a connecting stalk, termed the body-stalk, between the embryo and the chorionic area of the blastodei-m. Ultimately, however, this terminal section of the embryonic area is reversed in position, its posterior end being carried forwards till it forms the posterior boundary of the umbilical orifice, and the ventral wall of the hind-gut is thus completed. The rest of the primitive alimentary canal constitutes the mid-gut. It remains for some time in free communication with the cavity of the yolk-sac, and this com- munication between the alimentary canal and the yolk-sac at a later stage forms a tubular passage, the vitello-intestinal duct. The entoderm forms the lining epitheliiim of the alimentary canal, but this is invested by the splanchnic layer of the mesoderm, and it is separated from the somatopleure or body -wall by the coelom or body cavity. As the splanchnic mesoderm passes on each side to its continuity with the somatic mesoderm it forms