UROGENITAL SYSTEM. lUG whose interspaces communicate freely with one another, and are filled with blood. These blood-containing spaces lead directly into the veins of the penis, and like the veins have a lining of flat endothelial cells. The size of the penis varies with the amount of blood in this cavernous tissue. The structure of the corpus spongiosum resembles that of the corpora cavernosa, but the fibrous coat is much thinner, and the trabeculfe are finer. Smooth muscle fibres surround the urethra as it traverses the corpus spongiosum (Fig. 762). In some iiiainiuals, such as the walrus, dog, bear, baboon, etc., a bone called the OS penis is developed in the se2)tuiii which intervenes between the corpora cavernosa. Vessels and Nerves of the Penis.—The penis receives its arterial supply from branches of the internal pudic artery. The erectile tissue of the corpora cavernosa is supplied chiefly by the deep arteries of the penis, while that of the c()rj)us spongiosum receives its arterial supply from the artery to the bulb. Brandies of the dorsal artery of the penis piercing the fibrous coat of the corpora cavernosa furnish additional twigs to the erectile tissue of these structures. The glans receives its chief blood sujjply from branches of the dorsal artery. Tlie small branches of these arteries run in the trabecula; of the erectile tissue, and the capillaries, into which they lead, oj)en directly into the cavernous venous spaces. As they lie in the finer trabecula;, the smaller branches often present a pecidiar twisted appearance, and hence the name helicine arteries (arterite helicina;) is sometimes applied to them. The veins with which the cavernous spaces communicate carry the blood, for the most part, either directly into the prostatic plexus, or into the dorsal vein, and so to the prostatic plexus. The dorsal vein of the penis Ijegins iu tributaries from the glans and lu'epucL*, and lies in the groove between the corpora cavernosa as it ascends to pass beneath the sub-pubic ligament and join the pi'ostatic plexus. On each side of it lies the dorsal artery, and still further from the middle line the dorsal nerve (Fig. 762). The nerve-supply of the f)enis is derived from the internal ]nidic nerve and from the hypo- gastric plexus The branches of the internal pudic are the dorsal nerve of the penis, and branches from the superficial perineal nerves. Tlie.se supply the cutaneous structures of the penis, while the sympathetic filaments from the hypogastric plexus, wdiich reach the penis through the prostatic plexus, end in the erectile tissue. THE PROSTATE. The prostate (prostata) is a partly glandular, partly muscular organ of a dark brown-red colour which surrounds the beginning of the urethra in the male. It lies within the pelvis, and is enclosed by a dense capsule derived from the pelvic fascia. The common ejaculatory ducts traverse the prostate in their course down- wards and forwards to join the urethra as it descends through the gland (Fig. 755). The size of the prostate varies considerably in different individuals, Init its transverse or longest diameter is usually from one and a quarter to one and a half inches, its antero-posterior diameter about three quarters of an inch, and its vertical diameter about one and a quarter inches. Superficially the prostate is A B Fig. 763.—Bladdeh, Phostate, and Seminal Vesicles viewed kkom the Outer Side. Drawn from .specimens hardened in situ. separated from the bladder by deep wide lateral grooves directed downwards and forwards, and by a narrow posterior groove which is horizontal. In connexion with the prostate we describe an apex whicli is directed down- wards, a base looking upwards, a posterior, and two lateral surfaces. The general outline of the organ has ])een often compared with that of a Spanish chestnut.