THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 984 contraction, an elevation just below the Eustachian orifice, known as the levator cushion (torus levatorius, Figs. 660 and 661), which in its outer jiortion abuts against the lower part of the orifice, and forms its base when that opening assumes its usual triangular sliape. Occasionally tlie Eustachian orifice is of an oval or slit-like form, with sloping edges, but the triangular shape described above is much more commonly found. Immediately behind each Eustachian orifice is seen the lateral recess of the pharynx (recessus pharyngeus, fossa of Eosenmiiller), a nearly vertical, slit-like depression of considerable depth (Figs. 660 and 661), which runs outwards in the form of a flattened pouch or diverticulum. The lateral recesses project out over the upper margin of the superior constrictor, and beneath the j^etrous portion of the temporal bone, corresponding to the position of the sinus of Morgagni on each side. The recess is the remains of the inner or pharyngeal portion of tlie .second visceral cleft, the lower part of which is re])resented in the supratonsillar fossa. Oral Pharynx (pars oralis).—This is the portion of the pharyngeal cavity whieli lies beliind the mouth, and intervenes between the soft palate above and the superior aperture of the larynx below. Its anterior wall is occupied by the isthmus of the fauces, leading into the mouth; and below this l)y the pharyngeal jjortion of the tongue, almost vertical in direction. Its lateral wall (Fig. 661) ])resents a triangular area (sinus tonsillaris), bounded in front l)y the anterior palatine arch, behind by the posterior palatine arch, and below by the sides of the tongue in its pharyngeal portion. This area is occupied in the greater part of its extent by the tonsil, above which is found a depression, the supratonsillar fossa (Fig. 661), which is of considerable interest clinically. The posterior palatine arch (arcus pharyngo-palatinus, posterior pillar of the fauces) is a prominent fold of mucous membrane, containing the palato-pharyngeus muscle in its interior, which springs above from the posterior edge of the soft palate, and, passing downwards and slightly backwards, ends below on the side-wall _ ,., of the pharynx (Fig. 661). The two Tlie pliiltrum ^ . ^ i.- ^i n posterior palatine arches form the lateral boundaries of the pharyngeal isthmus, which passage they can modify both in size and shape hy the contraction of their contained muscles. The anterior palatine arch is de- paiatine arch gcribcd ou page 950. The pharyngeal isthmus (isthmus pharyngo-nasalis) is the very oblique and somewliat triangular orifice through which the oral pharynx com- municates with the naso-pharynx (Fig. 663). It differs consideraldy in size and shape in different individual le of palate Uvula Posterior Pharyngeal isthmus Topsil Anterior |>alatine arch I'Dngue lieing in some so small that the naso- pharynx can l)e explored from tlie mouth only with very great difficulty ; whilst in others it is of much larger dimensions (Fig. 662) and affords ample space for the rhinoscopic examination of the naso-pharynx and the back part of the nasal cavities. In general it may be described as triangular in shape, the sides corre- sponding to the posterior palatine arches, and the base, which is behind, being formed by the posterior wall of the pliarynx. The apex of the triangle is directed towards the soft palate, and is encroached upon, and overlapped from below by, the uvula.^ which assists in the closure of the orifice (Fig. 663). Fui. 663.--Oi'EN Mouth oHovviNt; Palatk and Tonsils. It also shows the two palatine arches, and the pharyngeal isthmus through which the naso-pharynx above com- municates with the oral portion of tlie ])haryiix below.