992 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Fl( membrane loosely to the muscular coat, and admits of the former being thrown into folds when empty. In this coat are contained the numerous racemose mucous glands which open into the cavity of the oesophagus (Fig. 669). The mucous membrane is of a greyish pink colour, much paler than that of the pharynx, and of a firm and resistant texture. It is covered by a thick stratified, squamous epithelium, on the surface of which tiie open- ings of numerous glands are found. Below, its junction with the gastric mucous membrane is indicated by a distinct, irregularly dentated or crenated line, which runs transversely round the tube. In carefully preserved specimens the smooth mucous membrane of the oesophagus above this line contrasts strongly with the mammillated gastric mucous membrane below. Owing to the inelasticity of this coat, and the fact that it is but loosely connected to the muscular coat by the submucosa, it is thrown into a series of longitudiual folds when the oesophagus is empty and contracted; hence the stellate lumen often seen in sections of the gullet. Glands. — Numerous racemose mucous glands, large enough to be distinctly seen with the naked eye, are found in the sub- nuicosa. They are pretty evenly distributed over the whole tube, and do not appear to be more numerous towards either end (Coffey). In addition to these, other glands, resembling closely those of the cardiac end of the stomach, are found in the umcous membrane of certain portions of the oeso- phagus. They are entirely confined to the mucosa, and do not extend beyond the muscularis mucosae. These glands are specially numerous at both the upper and lower ends of the tube (Coffey, Schafer). Vessels and Nerves. —Its arteries consist of numerous small branches derived, in the neck, from the inferior thyroid, in the thorax, from the hronchial arteries and thoracic aorta, and in tile abdomen, from tlie coronary artery of the stomacli, and also from the left plirenic. The veins form a plexus on the exterior of the ossopliagus, from which brunches pass, in the lower part of the tulje, to the coronary, vein of the stomach, and, higher up, to the azygos, and thyroid veins. Tliere is thus established on the low^er part of the cESophagus a free comnumica- tion between the portal and systemic veins. The lymphatics jiass to the inferior set of deep cervical glands in the neck, and to the posterior mediastinal glands, many of which, of large size, are seen aroiuid the tube, in the thorax. The nerves are derived from the recurrent laryngeal, and from the cervical sympathetic in the neuk, from the pneumogastrics and sym- pathetic in the thorax. Development of the CEsophagus. The oesophagus is developed from the portion of the foregut lying between the pharynx and the dilatation which represents the future stomach. At first, owing to the Hexure of the head on the trunk in the early embryo, it is relatively short, but, as the neck is developed, it gradually becomes elongated and cylindrical. Loiigituiliiial bands 668.—Thr Lower Part of the Pharynx AND THE Upper Part of the CEsophaous have been slit up from behind, and the mucous membrane removed to show the nmscular fibres. Tlie two louffitudinal bands are seen coming round to the front to be attached by a common tendon to the upper border of the cricoid car- tihige. See explanation of last figure. Stratitieil squamous I'Hitheliuiii Muscularis inucosife Subuuicosa witli nuicDus Klaiids Circ\ilar muscular fibres Fio 669.—Stkuctuhu of thk ffisopHACUTs transverse section (after Hoi-sley).