THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 330 The Interosseous Muscles. The interosseous muscles of the hand are arranged in two sets, pahnar and dorsal. The palmar interossei (m. interossei volares) are three in number, occupying the three inner interosseous spaces. Each arises by a single head; the first from the ulnar side of the shaft of the second metacarpal bone; the second and third from the radial sides of the shafts of the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones respectively. Each ends in a tendon which is directed downwards behind the deep transverse metacarpal ligament, to be inserted into the dorsal expansion of the extensor tendon, the capsule of the metacarpo-phalangeal articu- lation, and the side of the first phalanx of the fingers; the first is inserted into the ulnar side of the second finger; the second and third into the radial side of the fourth and fifth fingers. The dorsal interossei are four in number. Each arises by two heads from the sides of the meta- j5^„s(,ies. carpal bones bounding each inter- osseous space. Each forms a fleshy mass, and ends in a membranous tendon, which, passing downwards behind the transverse metacarpal ligament, is inserted exactly like the palmar muscles into the dorsal aspect of each of the four fingers. The insertion of the first dorsal inter- Fiu. 245.—The Palmar Interosseous Muscles. P^*, first; P''^, second ; and P', third palmar interosseous Abductor pollicis : origin (cut)- Insertion of flexor carpi radialis- Insertion of opponens pollici Interosseus primus volari Abductor pollicis : insertion (cut Adductor obliquus (insertion)" Adductor transversus (insertion/ First dorsal interosseous muscll-^ Second dorsal interosseous musclf- Third dorsal interosseous muscle Fourth dorsal interosseous muscle' Insertion of flexor carpi ulnakis Origins of palmar inter- osseous muscles Insertion of opponens minimi DIOITI Insertion of abductor MINIMI DIGITl Fio. 240.—Dorsal Interosseous Muscles of the Hand (seen from tlie Palmar Aspect). osseous muscle is into the radial side of the index finger; the second muscle is attached to the radial side of the third finger; the tldrd. muscle to the ulnar side of the same finger; and the fourth muscle to the ulnar side of the fourth finger. These muscles fill up the interosseous spaces; the dorsal interossei are visible on the back of the hand when the extensor tendons are removed; in the palm the