395 THE MUSCLES OE THE THOHAX. and from the arcuate ligaments. The crura are two elongated fibro-muscular bundles which arise from the front of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrse, on the right side from the first three, on the left side from the first two vertebrie. They are directed upwards, and passing in front of the aorta, decussate across the middle line in front of that vessel, the fibres of the riglit crus passing in front of those of the left crus. The fibres then encircle the oesophagus, forming an elliptical opening for its passage, and finally join the central tendon, after a second decussation in front of the gullet. The arcuate ligaments are five in number. The middle arcuate ligament is a fibrous arch connecting together the crura of the diaphragm in front of the aorta, and giving origin to fibres which join the crura as they decussate to encircle the gullet. The internal arcuate ligament is a thickening formed by the attachment of the psoas fascia to the body of the first lumbar vertebra internally and its transverse process externally. Stretching across the upper end of the psoas miiscle, the Right cms of diaphragm Left cms of diaphragm Fig. 290.—The Diaphragm (from below). ligament gives origin to muscular fibres directed upwards on each side of the crura. The external arcuate ligament is the thickened upper end of the fascia over the quadratus lumborum (anterior layer of the lumbar fascia), and is attached inter- nally to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, and externally to the last rib. It gives origin to another broad band of muscular fibres, separated from those arising from the internal arcuate ligament by an interval, and passing upwards to the central tendon of the diaphragm. From this extensive origin the muscular fibres of the diaphragm converge to an insertion into a large trilobed central tendon. Of its lobes the right one is the largest, the middle or anterior intermediate in size, and the left the smallest. It does not occupy the centre of the muscle, being placed nearer the front "than the back. The fibres of the crura are consequently the longest; those from the sternum the shortest. The diaphragm is pierced by numerous structures. The superior epigastric artery enters the sheath of the rectus abdominis between its sternal and costal