1086 UROGENITAL SYSTEM. are termed the medullary pyramids (pyramides renales), and together constitute tlie medulla (suljstantia medullaris) of the kidney. The bases of the pyramids do not reach tlie surface of the kidney, but are separ- ated from it l)y a thin layer of kidney substance called cortex, or the cortical part of the kidney l.Area. (substantia corticalis). The cortical substance Pa,ilia ^-rs^ jciibrosiP ^^^^^ ^j^j^ covers over the bases of the pyramids, ^i>^ ^ ^s==^ i' "^M*- Imt also sends in prolongations, calletl columns of Bertin (columnar renales), between the pyra- mids, towards the sinus. The medullary part of the kidney exhibits in section a striated Fic. 73-2.—Small Portion of the Wall appearance, while the cortical part is more OF THE Kidney Sinus. , i n , • i mi granular and usually dmerent in colour. The outer part of each pyramid, or the intermediate zone (basis pyramidis), as it is tei'med, appears in section to l)e composed of alternate dark and light streaks, while the inner or papillary part, which is of a ligliter colour, is more uniformly and faintly striated. In sections of the kidney the larger blood-vessels are seen, after they have entered the kidney substance, to lie between the pyramids; some of their main branches are also visible passing across the bases of the pyramids. In the foetus and young child, and sometimes even in the adult, the surface of the kidney is marked by a number of grooves dividing it into polygonal areas. These repre- sent the lobes (lobi renales) of which the kidney is originally composed. Each lobe corresponds to one pyramid with its surrounding cortical substance. An examination, with an ordinary pocket lens, of a section through the kidney shows that the lighter strife of the intermediate zone are continued into the cortex. As they pass through the cortex towards the surface of the kidney they become less distinct, and appear as separate ray-like prolongations carried outward from the l)ases of the pyramids. Tliese parts of the cortex, which appear in this way to be c<^ntinuations of tlie medulla, are called medullary rays (pars radiata), and the portions of kidney cortex which intervene between them form the labyrinth (pars convoluta. Fig. 7.33). Kidney Tubules.—The substance proper of the kidney is composed of an enormous number of minute tubules (tubuli renales), each of which has an exceedingly complicated coui'se. The wall of a uriniferous tubule consists throughout of a basement membrane and an epithelial lining, but the diameter of the tubule and the character of the epithelium vary much in the differeut parts of each tube. Each tubule begins in a thin-walled spherical dilatation or capsule (capsula glomeruli), in which a complicated loop of capillary blood-vessels is contained. The tuft of capillaries is covered by a reflection of the delicate wall of the capsule, and is, as it were, invaginated into the ca])sule (Fig. 733). The capsules with their enclosed ca])illaries are often called Malpighian corpuscles (corpuscula renis), and are all placed in the labyrinth portion of the kidney cortex. The tubule leading frona the capsule—first convoluted tubule—is much convoluted, and lies within the labyrinth. Passing from the lab^-riuth, the tubide enters a medullary ray, in which its course becomes less complicated, and here it receives the name of spiral tubule. From the medullaryTaj^ the tubule enters the intermediate zone of the pyramid, and, diminishing in diameter, it pursues a straight course towards the apex of the pyramid, forming the so-called descending limb of Henle's loop. AVithin the apical ])ortiou of the pyramid the tubule suddenly bends upon itself, forming the loop of Henle, and reversing its direction, it passes back again through the intermediate zone into the medullary ray as the ascend- ing limb of Henle's loop. This ascending limb exhibits a slight spiral twisting. Leaving the medullar}' ray, the tubule once more enters the labyrinth, where its outline becomes so uneven that the name irregular tubule is applied to it. While still within the laby- rinth, its contour having acquired a more uniform ajipearance, the tubule receives the name of second convoluted tubule ; this latter finally ends in a short junctional tubule, which passes back into a medullary ray and joins a collecting tube. Each collecting tube receives luimcrous kidney tubules, and jjursuesa straight course through a medullary ray and pyramid. Finally, several collecting tubes, uniting together, open as an excretory tube, by one of the foramina papillaria, on the surface of a renal papilla, into a calyx of the ureter (Fig. 733).