336 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. /). Abduction and Adduction. Lumbricales Flexor brevis and Oppoiiens inininii digiti Dorsal interossei (from tlie inner side of the hand) ' (from the middle line of the middle , finger) Palmar interossei ((to the middle line } 0 f t h e m i d d 1 e [ finger) Flexion is more powerful and complete than extension of the fingers. The flexor profimdus alone acts on the terminal phalanges; the flexor sublimis and flexor jirofundus together flex the proximal interi)halangeal joint; and flexion of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation is eft'ected hj these muscles, as.sisted by the interossei, lumbricales, and flexor brevis minimi digiti. Extension of the phalanges is eft'ected hy the imited action of the extensors of the digits, the interossei and lumbricales ; extension of the fingers at the metacarjjo-jihalangeal joints is produced solely by the long extensor muscles. Se2}arate extension of the index finger only is possible; the three inner fingers can only be flexed and extended together, on account of the connecting liands joining the extensor tendons together on the back of the hand. 5. Movements of the Thumb.—The movements of which the thumb is ca])able are flexion and extension (occurring at the carpo-metacarjjal, metacarpo-phalangeal, and interjjhalangeal joints); abduction and adduction, together with circumduction (occurring at the carpo-metacarjial joint). The muscles and their respective actions are given in the following table :— a. Flexion aud Extension. ,T • r (carpo - metacarpal Opponens poUicis < ^ ■ '■■ ^ I joint) Flexor brevis \ (carpo-metacarpal and Adductors j- metacarpo-phalangeal Abductor J joint) Flexor longus pollicis (all joint.s) Extensor ossis meta- J (carpo-metacarpal carpi pollicis \ joint) Extensor brevis \ (carpo-metacarpal and pollicis \ nietacarpo-phalan- ^ J geal joint) Extensor longus pollicis (all joints) h. Adduction and Abduction. Adductors of the thumb Flexor brevis 1 n- • ^ } pollicis Opponens J First dorsal interosseous Abductor pollicis Extensors of the thumb c. Circumduction—a oonibination of the above muscles. The characteristic features of the movements of the upper limb are their range and refinement. The hand, in addition to its intrinsic powers, can be moved through a wide range and in several planes by the muscles acting on tlie wrist and radio-ulnar joints ; this range is increased by the fore and aft movements at the elbow-joint, and the extensive movements of which the shoulder and clavicular joints are capable. The result is that the hand can be brought into a position to cover and guard any portion of the body. The precision and refinement of movement is made possible by the co- ordinate movements of the various muscles acting upon the several joints, so that actions can be performed (as eating) in which all the articulations of the limb are brought into play ; while others (such as writing) are possible by movements at the joints of tlie wrist and fingers along with fixation of the elbow-joint. THE LOWER LIMB. FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE THIGH AND BUTTOCK. FASCIA. The superficial fascia of the thigh and buttock is continuous above with the fascia of the abdomen and back, internally with that of the perineum, and below with that of the leg. It presents noticeable features in the buttock and groin.