THE AETICULATIONS OE JOINTS. 274 Lesser sigmoid cavity Transverse portion of internal lateral ligament Greater sigmoid ca\ity Orbicular ligament Fig. 214.- Coronoid process Orbiculae Ligament of the Radius. formation of the elbow-joint, consequently the joint cavity is continuous with that of the elbow-joint, and therefore, in a sense, it lies within the cover of the capsule of the elbow-joint; but its special feature is the— Orbicular ligament (lig. annulare radii. Figs. 211 and 214), which has formerly been Olecranon process mentioned RS the inferior line of attachment of the external lateral ligament and the ligaments on the front and back of the elbow- joint. It is a strong well-defined struc- ture, attached by its extremities to the anterior and posterior margins of the lesser sigmoid cavity, and thus it forms nearly four-fifths of an osseo-tendinous circle or ring. This circle is some- what wider at the upper than at the lower margin of the orbicular ligament, which, by encircling the upper part of the neck of the radius, tends to prevent displacement of the head of that bone in a downward direction. The lower margin of this ligament is not directly attached to the radius. The synovial membrane is continuous with that which lines the elbow-joint. It closes the joint cavity at the inferior unattached margin of the orbicular ligament, where it is somewhat loosely arranged in its reflexion from the Ligament to the neck of the radius. Inferior Radio-ulnar Joint (articulatio radio-ulnaris distahs).—This joint is situated between the sigmoid cavity on the inner side of the lower end of the radius and the lateral aspect of the head of the ulna. In addition, it includes the inferior surface of the head of the ulna, which articulates with the superior surface of a triangular plate of fibro-cartilage, by means of which the joint is excluded from the radio-carpal articulation. The triangular interarticular fibro-cartilage (discus articularis, Figs. 215 and 217), besides presenting articular surfaces to two separate joints, is an important ligament concerned in binding together the lower ends of the radius and ulna. It is attached by its apex to the de- pression at the outer Headofuina side of the root of the styloid process of the ulna, and by its base to the sharp line of de- marcation between the sigmoid cavity and the carpal articular surface of the radius. The ligamentous cap- sule is very imperfect, and consists of scattered fibres, termed the anterior and posterior radio-ulnar ligaments (Fig. 216). These ligaments pass transversely between adjoining non-articular surfaces on the radius and ulna, and are of sufficient length to permit of the movements of the radius. The synovial membrane completes the closure of the joint cavity. It forms a loose bulging projection (recessus sacciformis), passing upwards between the lower ends of the shafts of the radius and ulna, and it also clothes the upper surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage (Fig. 217). The cavity of this joint is quite distinct from that of the radio-carpal articulation, except when the triangular fibro-cartilage presents a perforation. Between the foregoing articulations there are two accessory ligaments, viz. the interosseous membrane and the oblique ligament, which connect together the shafts of the radius and ulna. Surface for scaphoid bone Groove for tendon of extensor Ion pollicis m. Styloid jjrocess of ulna Apex of triangular fibro-cartilage Triangular fibro-cartilage Surface for semilunar bone Fig. 215.—Carpal Articular Surface of the Radius, and Triangular Fibro-cartilage op the Wrist.