DEVELOPMENT OF THE VEINS. 887 The portions of the cardinal veins lying below the transverse anastomosis which becomes the left common iliac vein remain ; that on the right forms the right internal and common iliac veins, but the left forms only the left internal iliac vein and a small part of the left common iliac vein, for the transverse anastomosis commences on the left side almost opposite the point of entrance of the external iliac vein, whilst it terminates on the Lateral sinus right level. From iliac vein side at a higher the left common to the renal vein the cardinal vein of the left side disappears ; that on the right side becomes the lower part of the inferior vena cava, to which the blood passes from the left side of the abdominal wall by means of small transverse anasto- mosing channels which existed between the cardinal veins, and which persist as the terminal portions of the left himbar veins. Above the renal veins part of the right cardinal vein persists as the vena azygos major, and the left forms the upper and lower minor azygos veins and the lower part of the left superior inter- costal vein. The azygos minor veins open into the azygos major by the two transverse anastomosing channels which form between the upper pai'ts of the cardinal veins. The ixpper part of the in- ferior vena cava is developed as an outgrowth from the common trunk formed by the fusion of the ductus venosus with the right hepatic vein. It grows downwards, behind the liver and along the right side of the vertebral column, to the interval between the kidneys, whei-e it divides into two branches, of which the right anastomoses with the right cardinal vein at the level of the renal vein ; it receives the suprarenal vein, and it terminates in a taper- ing extremity which is said to become the spermatic vein of the right side. The left branch passes across the front unites with the left Subclavian_ vein Right innominate vein Superior vena cava Vena azygos major Eiglit hepatic vein Right brancli of portal vein Inferior vena cava Internal jugular vein External jugular vein Subclavian vein nnominate vein uperior intercostal ique vein of Marshall azygos minor superior azygos minor inferior Left hepatic vein Ductus venosus Left branch of portal ■s'ein Umbilical vein Suprarenal vein Renal vein Spermatic vein Inferior vena cava Right common iliac vein Right external iliac vein Right internal iliac vein Spermatic vein Left common iliac vein Left external iliac vein Left internal iliac vein Middle sacral vein Fig. 606.—Development of the Venous System (Diagi-ammatic). Stage IV.—The left umbilical vein has joined the upper part of the left vitelline vein ; the ductus venosus and the upper part of the inferior vena cava have ajipeared, and portions of the primitive jugular and cardinal veins have atrophied. of the aorta below the superior mesenteric artery, and cardinal vein at the point of entrance of the renal vein. It gives off an upper branch which becomes the left suprarenal vein, and a lower which becomes the left spermatic vein. As before pointed out, the left cardinal vein disappears between the renal vein and the left common iliac vein, whilst the right remains as the lower part of the inferior vena cava. The left division of the upper part of the inferior vena cava,