13 THE SPEEMATOZOON. similar to those met with in the mitotic or karyokinetic division of cells. The excentrically situated nucleus (germinal vesicle) moves to one pole of the ovum, the nuclear membrane and the nucleoli disappear, and an achromatic spindle is formed, but, so far as the mammalian ovum is concerned, there is no evidence either of centrosomes or attraction spheres at the poles of the spindle; possibly they are present, but they are not visible under the conditions in which the ova can be observed. At first the spindle lies horizontally, but gradually it turns till its long axis is perpendicular to the surface of the ovum ; then one pole of the spindle is protruded, carrying with it a small mass of the cytoplasm and forming a bud. Simultaneously half the chromosomes present in the nucleus disappear, and the remaining half accumulate at the equator of the spindle in the form of rods. Each rod divides into four parts and thus becomes a " tetrad " (end of prophase). Each tetrad then separates into two " dyads " (metaphase). In the next stage (anaphase) the dyads diverge, one half passing to the outer pole of the spindle which projects into the bud, the other half passing to the inner pole. The bud with its dyads then separates, forming the first polar body. Thus both the first polar body and the remainder of the ovum, at the end of the unequal division which has taken place, possess the same number of chromatin particles (chromosomes) as the original ovum. The second unequal division of the ovum commences directly on the termination of the first, and results in the formation of a second polar body. The achromatic spindle is reformed and the remaining dyads are grouped at its equator. The outer extremity of the spindle projects into a second bud, whilst the two halves of each dyad diverge and pass to opposite poles of the spindle. Those which group themselves at the outer pole separate with the bud, and the second polar body is completed. The half-dyads at the inner pole of the spindle travel towards the centre of the ovum, and form the chromatin reticulum of a new nucleus in the cytoplasm of the ovum, which is known as the female pronucleus. Therefore the mature and the immature ova differ from each other chiefly in that the former contains only half the number of chromosomes present in the latter. THE SPERMATOZOON. Spermatozoa are modified cells produced in the testicles or male generative glands. They are formed by a division of the spermatogonia or sperm-mother cells, which correspond with primitive ova... The daughter cells of the spermatogonia are called spermatocysts, and the grand-daughter cells spermatids. By various processes, during which they fuse with special basal, sustentacular, or nurse cells, the spermatids are converted into spermatozoa, which probably, though this has not yet been proved in mammals, contain half the number of chromosomes which were present in the sperm-mother cells. There is no doubt that the mature ova and the spermatozoa, so far as their development and chromatin particles are con- cerned, are very similar. Each is formed from a primary germinal cell, that is, from the primitive ovum and sperm-mother cell respectively. Each of these undergoes division and the daughter cells produced, that is, the functional ovum and the first polar body in the former case, and spermatocysts in the latter, contain a number of chromosomes identical with that originally present in the mother cell. By a second division, which follows immediately on the first, the daughter cells, with the exception perhaps of the first polar body, are transformed into grand-daughter cells. These are therefore represented by the second polar body and the mature ovum in the case of the female, and by the spermatids, which ultimately become spermatozoa, in the male. Each grand-daughter cell contains only half the number of chromosomes which are originally present in the mother cell. But the cells derived from the primitive ovum differ from the descendants of the sperm-mother cell in that only one, the mature or functional ovum, appears to be capable of further development, whilst, the four spermatozoa are apparently of equal value.