30 GENEKAL EMBEYOLOGY. parietal layers of the pleural and peritoneal membranes, and with the development of the connective tissues, fascite, and vessels of the ventro-lateral walls of the body; and in mammals, apparently, it also gives origin to the ventro-lateral body muscles and the muscles of the limbs. The splanchnic portions of the lateral plates form the fasciae, the connective tissues, the smooth muscles of the walls of the alimentary canal, the heart and great blood vessels, the visceral layers of the pleural and peritoneal membranes, the spleen, and the germinal epithelium, which becomes transformed into the mother cells of the ova and spermatozoa. In the cephalic region, in higher vertebrates, lateral plates are not recognisable, except so far as they may be represented by the walls of the pericardium; but in some lower vertebrates lateral plates can be distinguished, corresponding in number with the cephalic somites, and it has been asserted that the muscles of the Hind brain Fig. 24.—Transverse Section of a Rat Embryo. Showing the rehition of the paraxial mesoderm of the head to the lateral plates, the commencement of the formation of the otic vesicles aud hyomaudibular clefts, and the relation of the primitive heart to the pericardium and fore-gut. EC. Ectoderm. SoM. Somatic mesoderm. SpM. Splanchnic mesoderm. face and the muscles of mastication are developed from the lateral plates associated with the second and third cephalic somites. The subject, however, is one which is still obscure, and requires further investigation before any very positive conclusion can be arrived at. The Intermediate Cell Mass.—As already mentioned, the lateral plates and the protovertebral somites are connected by the intermediate cell-masses, which are intimately associated with the development of the ducts and tubules of the genital and urinary organs in man and other mammals. On each side the mass soon separates from the protovertebral somites, and is transfoimed by rapid proliferation of its cells into an elongated body, the Wolffian body or primitive kidney, whicli projects downwards into the dorsal angle of the body cavity. In early stages it extends from the fifth somite of the body backwards to its posterior end, but is most clearly diHerentiated in the middle portion. The Wolffian duct and tubules and the Miillerian duct are developed in connexion with it; after the second month of intrauterine life it degenerates, and is replaced by the permanent kidney, which is formed dorsal to its posterior extremity.