146 OSTEOLOGY. optic foramen and forms the upper border of the sphenoidal fissure. Externally this surface is separated from the outer wall by the sphenoidal fissure posteriorly, anteriorly by an irregular suture between the orbital part of the frontal and the upper margin of the orbital surface of the great wing of the sphenoid, ex- ternal to which the external angular process of the frontal articulates with the malar. Internally the roof is marked off from the inner wall by a suture, more or less horizontal in direction, between the orbital plate of the frontal and the following bones in order from before backwards, viz. the frontal process of the superior maxilla, the lachrymal bone, and the os planum of ethmoid. In the suture between the last-mentioned bone and the frontal there are two foramina, the anterior and posterior internal orbital or ethmoidal canals (foramen ethmoidale anterius et posterius); both transmit ethmoidal vessels—the anterior affording passage to the nasal nerve as well. The roof is concave from side to side, and to some extent also from before backwards. About midway between the fronto - maxillary suture and the supraorbital notch or foramen, but within the margin of the orbit, there is a small depression, occasionally replaced by a spine (fovea vel. spina trochlearis), for the attachment of the cartilaginous pulley of the superior oblique muscle of the eyeball. Under cover of the external angular process the roof is more deeply excavated, forming a shallow fossa for the lodgment of the lachrymal gland (fossa glandulse lachrymalis). In front, the roof separates the orbit from the frontal sinus, and along its inner border it is in relation with the ethmoidal air-cells. The relation to these air spaces is variable, depending on the development and size of the sinuses. Tlie rest of the roof, which is very thin, forms by its upper surface the floor of the anterior cranial fossa, in which are lodged the frontal lobes of the cerebrum. The floor of the orhit is formed by the orbital plate of the superior maxilla, together with part of the orbital surface of the malar bone, and a small triangular piece of bone, the orbital process of the palate, which is wedged in posteriorly. Externally, for three-quarters of its length posteriorly, it is separated from the outer wall, whicli is here formed by the great wing of the sphenoid, by a cleft called the spheno-maxillary fissure (fissura orbitalis inferior). Through this there pass the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve on its way to the infraorbital canal, the orbital or temporp-malar branch of the same nerve, the infraorbital vessels, and some twigs from Meckel's (spheno-palatine) ganglion. By means of this fissure the orbit communicates with the spheno-maxillary fossa behind and the zygomatic fossa to the outer side. Internally the floor is limited from behind forwards by the suture between the following bones, viz. the orbital process of the palate below with the body of the sphenoid above and behind, and the os planum of the ethmoid above and in front—anterior to which the orbital plate of the superior maxilla below articulates with the OS planum of the ethmoid and the lachrymal above and in front. . At the anterior extremity of this line of sutures the inner edge of the orbital plate of the superior maxilla is notched and free between tlie point where it articulates with the lachrymal posteriorly and the part from which its frontal process rises. Here it forms the outer edge of a canal, down which the membranous nasal duct passes to the nose. The floor of the orbit is thin behind and at the sides, but thicker in front where it blends with the orbital margin. Passing in a sagittal direction through its substance is the infraorbital canal, the roof of which is usually deficient l)ehind, where it becomes continuous with a broad, shallow groove, which leads forwards from the anterior margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure. This canal (canalis infraorbitalis) opens on the facial surface of the superior maxillary imme- diately below the orbital margin (foramen infraorbitale) and transmits the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, together with the infraorbital vessels. The floor forms a thin partition which sepai'ates the orbit from the antrum or sinus of the superior maxilla, which lies below. Internally it completes the lower ethmoidal air-cells, and separates the orbit from the middle meatus of the nasal fossie. The outer v;all of the orhit, which is the strongest, is formed by the orbital surface of the great wing of the sphenoid and the upper part of the orbital surface of the malar bone. Above it, behind, is the sphenoidal fissure, whilst below, and extending much farther forward, is the spheno-maxillary fissure. The anterior