THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. 514 The ascending limb proceeds upwards, with a slight inclination forwards, into the lower part of tlie outer surface of the frontal lobe for a distance of about an inch. Fig. 3S1.—Gvri and Sulci, on the outer surface of tlie cerebral hemisphere. Sulcus frontalis superior. r. Fissure of Rolando. Sulcus frontalis inferior. g.s. Superior genu. f.ni. Sulcus frontalis medius. g-i- (1. Inferior genu. p.m. Sulcus paraineiiialis. Sulcus diagonalis. A. Pars basilaris. t'. Superior temporal sulcus (parallel). B. Pars triangularis. t-. Inferior temporal sidcus. C. Pars orbitalis. P^- Inferior postcentral sulcus. S. Sylvian fissure. Superior postcentral sulcus. s\ Anterior horizontal limb (Sylvian fissure). Ramus horizontalis. Ascending limb (Sylvian fissure). Ramus occipitalis. s-'. Posterior horizontal limb (Sylvian fissure). s.o.t. Sulcus occipitalis transversus. p.c.i. Inferior prEecentral sulcus. cm. Calloso-marginal sulcus. p cs. Superior pr<ecentral sulcus. c.t.r. Inferior transverse furrow. In many cases the two anterior limbs spring from a common stem of greater or less length, and nut infrequently both are replaced by a single anterior limb. Limiting Sulcus of Reil (sulcus circularis Eeilii).—If the lips of the posterior liorizontal limb of the Sylvian fissure be widely pulled asunder from each other, the insula or island of Reil will be seen at the bottom. The insular district of the cortex is completely hidden from view when the Sylvian fissure is closed by over- lapping portions of the cerebral hemisphere, and, when brought into view in the manner indicated, it is observed to present a triangular outline and to be surrounded l)y a limiting sulcus, of which three parts may be recognised, viz.: an upper part, bounding it above and separating it from the parietal and frontal lobes; a lower part, marking it off below from the temporal lobe; and an anterior part, separating it in front from the frontal lobe. Opercula Insulse.—The overlapping portions of the cerebral substance which cover over the insula are termed the insular opercula, and they form, by the apposi- tion of their margins, the three limbs of tlie Sylvian fissure. The opercula are four in number and are named: (1) temporal; (2) fron to-parietal; (3) frontal; and (4) orbital. The limbs of the Sylvian fissure cut right through between the different opercula and extend from the exposed surface of the hemisphere to the submerged surface of the insula, and, in this manner, separate the opercula from each other. The temporal operculum extends upwards over the insula from the temporal lobe, and its upper margin forms the lower lip of the posterior horizontal limb of the Sylvian fissure. The fronto-parietal operculum is carried downwards from the parietal and frontal regions over the insula, and its lower margin, meeting the temporal operculum, forms the upper lip of the posterior limb of the Sylvian fissure.