367 THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Trachelo-mastoid Transversalis_ cervicis COMPLEXUS of the vertebral aponeurosis from the last two thoracic and first two lumbar spinous processes. It forms four muscular bands which pass almost horizontally outwards to an insertion into the last four ribs. The muscular slips overlap one another from below upwards. The muscle is on the same plane as the vertebral aponeu- rosis, and is concealed by the latissimus dorsi. The splenius muscle occupies the back of the neck and upper part of the thoracic region. It arises as a flattened band from the ligamentum nuchse (from the level of the fourth cervical vertebra downwards) and from the spinous pro- cesses of the last cervical and higher (four to six) thoracic vertebras. Its fibjes extend upwards and outwaTds into the neck, separating in their course into an upper and a lower part. The upper part forms the splenius capitis, which is inserted into the mastoid pro- cess and the outer part of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The lower part forms the splenius colli or cervicis, which is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of the upper three or four cervical vertebrae behind the origin of the levator anguh scapulse. The muscle is partially concealed by the trapezius and sternomastoi4, and appears between them in the floor of the posterior tri- angle of the neck. It is covered by the rhomboid muscles, levator anguli scapulae and serratus posticus superior. It conceals the transversalis cervicis, trachelo-mastoid, and complexus muscles. Cervicalis- ascendens Aocessorius Ilio-costalis- Sbco^ G-roup. The erector spinse(m.sacro-spinalis) possesses vertebral, vertebro-cranial, and vertebro-costal attachments. It con- sists of an elongated mass composed of separated slips extending from the sacrum to the skull. Simple at its origin, it becomes more and more com- plex as it is traced upwards towards the head. It arises (1) by iieshy fibres from the iliac crest; (2) from the posterior sacro-iliac ligament; and (3) by ten- dinous fibres continuous with the former from the iliac crest, the back of the sacrum, and the spines of the upper sacral and all the lumbar vertebrae. Its fibres extend upwards through the loin, enclosed between the posterior and middle layers of the lumbar fascia, and separate into two columns, an outer portion derived from the external fleshy origin, the ilio-costalis, and an inner portion comprising the remaining larger part of the muscle, the longissimus dorsi. The ilio-costalis (m. ilio-costalis lumborum) is inserted by six slender slips into the lower six ribs. Longissimus DORSI Fig. 270.- -Schematic Eepresentation of the Parts QF THE Erector Spin^e Muscle.