THE MtJSCTJLAK SYSTEM. 410 where it forms a stout membrane concave upwards, the fibrous coats of the rectum and bladder, and gland and vesiculte seminales. At the front of the Iliacus muscle Fascia iliaca Pelvic peritoneum Pelvic fascia Extra-peritoneal tissue Obturator internus Parietal (obturator) layer of pelvic fascia Visceral (recto-vesical) layer of pelvic fascia Fascial canal (containing pudic artery and nerve Anal fascia Fat of iscliio-rectal fossa- Levator ani Gluteus maximus Sphincter ani externus Fig. 304.—Oblique Section across the Pelvis, to show the Disposition of THE Pelvic Fascia and the Boundaries of the Ischio-Kectal Fossa. continuous mesially with enveloping the prostate pelvis this layer extends from tlie l)ack of the pubis, to which it is di- rectly attached, to the neck of the bladder and prostate gland, and gives rise to two folds —• the pubo - prostatic ligaments, en- closing a hollow l^etween them,— the cavum Retzii. The lateral por- tion of the vis- ceral pelvic fascia constitutes the recto-vesical layer, divisible into three parts —vesical, rectal, and between these the recto-vesical layer, a partition insinuated between the rectum and bladder, and enclosing the vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia. This visceral pelvic fascia thus forms a support for the pelvic viscera, and at the same time acts as a partition between the pelvic cavity and the perineum. It is separated from the pelvic cavity by the peritoneum and the extra-peritoneal tissue, and is in contact with the levator ani on its perineal surface. The internal iliac vessels and their branches lie on the pelvic aspect of the fascia, and the parietal vessels pierce and are en- sheathe(l by it as they leave the pelvis. On the other hand the spinal nerves (sacral plexus) lie outside the fascia, with one excep- tion. The obturator nerve and artery leave the pelvis through a special hole in the pelvic wall, after traversing the extra-peritoneal tissue. The pelvic fascia in the female only differs in slight detail from that of the male. It encloses the neck of the bladder and vagina instead of the prostate gland, and invests the lower part of the neck of the uterus instead of the vesicuhe seminales. Internal iliac artery- PSOAS' Obturator nerve Anterior layer of triangular ligament Posterior layer of- triangular ligament Visceral pelvic fascia Parietal pelvic fascia Attachment to ischial spine White line Origin of levator ani White line Obturator fascia Fig. 305.—The Outer Wall of the Pelvis (pelvic fascia) MUSCLES OF THE PELVIS. The pelvic diaphragm consists of several more or less rudimentary muscular slips, constituting the levator ani and ischio-coccygeus muscles, which serve to uphold the pelvic iioor, and are related to the rectum and the prostate gland or vagina.