765 BEANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. fascia and the temporal muscle, and terminates in the temporal fossa by anastomosing with the deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary artery. (/) Orbital (a. zygomatico-orbitalis).—Tliis branch may spring directly from the superficial temporal, but it is frequently a branch of the middle temporal. It runs forwards above the zygoma between the two layers of the temporal fascia. It supplies branches to the orbicularis palebrarum, and anastomoses, through the malar bone and round the outer margin of the orbit, with the lachrymal and palpebral branches of the ophthalmic artery. (ff) The anterior terminal branch (ramus frontalis) runs forwards and upwards, in a tortuous course, through the superficial fascia of the scalp towards the frontal eminence, lying at first upon the temporal fascia, and then upon the epicranial aponeurosis. It supplies the frontalis and the orbiculai'is palpebrarum, and anastomoses with the lachrymal Anterior meningeal artery Anterior branch of middle meningeal artery Deep temporal arteries Infraorbital artery Middle menin- geal artery - Small iiienin- \ geal artery Posterior superior dental artery Buccal artery Mental artery [submental artery Posterior branch of middle men- - ingeal artery Supei'ticial tem- poral artery Internal maxil- lary artery Occipital artery — Inferior dental artery Mylo-hyoid artery - Posterior auricular artery Sterno-mastoid muscle Levator anguli scapulae muscle Trapezius muscle Occipital artery External carotid artery Facial artery ' Lingual artery Internal carotid artery Scalenus medius muscle Superior thyroid artery Common carotid artery Fig. 555.—The External Carotid, Internal Maxillary, and Meningeal Arteries. and supraorbital branches of the ophthalmic artery, with the posterior terminal branch of the superficial temporal, and with its fellow of the opposite side. (h) The posterior terminal branch (ramus parietalis), less tortuous than the anterior, runs ^upwai'ds and backwards in the superficial fascia of the scalp. It anastomoses, anteriorly, ^vith the antei'ior terminal branch, posteriorly with the posterior auricular and occipital arteries, and, across the middle line, with its fellow of the opposite side. It supplies the skin and fascia, and the attrahens and attoUens aurem muscles. (8) Internal Maxillary Artery (a. maxillaris interna).—The internal maxillary artery commences in the parotid gland behind the neck of the lower jaw, and terminates in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Course and Relations.—Although the internal maxillary artery is only a short trunk it has many important relations, in the consideration of which it is convenient to arbitrarily divide the vessel into three parts. The first part extends from the back of the neck of the mandible forwards into the zygomatic fossa as