912 THE KESPIEATORY SYSTEM. Crico - arytenoid Joints (articulationes cricoaryteenoidese).—These also are diarthrodial articulations. In each case there is a joint cavity surrounded by a capsular ligament, which is lined, by a synovial membrane. The cricoid articular surface is convex, whilst that of the arytenoid is concave; both are elongated or elliptical in form, and they are applied to each other, so that the long axis of the one intersects or crosses that of the other. In no position of the joint do the two sur- faces accurately coincide—a portion of the cricoid facet is always left uncovered. The capsule of the joint is strengthened behind by a band which is inserted into the inner and back part of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, and plays a somewhat important part in the mechanism of the joint : it arrests effectually forwaixl move- ment of the arytenoid cartilage. The movements which take place at the crico-arytenoid joint are of a twofold kind, viz. gliding and rotatory. The ordinary position of the arytenoid during easy, quiet breathing is one in which it rests upon the outer part of the cricoid facet. By a gliding movement it can ascend upon the cricoid facet, and advance towards the median plane and its fellow of the opposite side. The gliding movements, therefore, are of such a character that the two arytenoid cartilages approach or retreat from each other and the mesial plane. In the rotatory movement the arytenoid cartilage revolves around a vertical axis. By this movement the vocal process is swung outwards or inwards, so as to open or close the rima glottidis. The joint between the arytenoid and the cartilage of Santorini may either partake of the nature of an amphiarthrosis or of a diarthrosis. The tips of the two cornicula laryngis can generally be made out to be connected to the upper border of the posterior lamina of the cricoid cartilage by a delicate Y-shaped ligament termed the ligamentum jugale. Thyro-hyoid Membrane (membrana hyothyreoidea).—This is a broad mem- branous and somewhat elastic sheet which occupies the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage. It is not equally strong throughout. It presents a central thick portion and a cord-like right and left margin, whilst in the intervals between these it is thin and weak. The central thickened part (ligamentum thyro-hyoideum medium) is largely composed of elastic fibres. Below, it is attached to the margins of the thyroid notch, whilst above, it is fixed to the posterior aspect of the upper margin of the body of the hyoid bone. The upper part, therefore, of its anterior surface is placed l)ehind the posterior hollowed-out surface of the body of the hyoid bone; a synovial bursa of variable extent is placed between them, and in certain movements of the head and larynx the upper border of the thyroid cartilage slips upwards behind the hyoid bone. On either side of the strong central part, the thyro-hyoid membrane is thin and loose. It is attached below to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and above to the posterior aspect of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. It is pierced by the internal laryngeal nerve and the superior laryngeal vessels. The posterior border of the th} ro-hyoid membrane on each side is thickened, round, and cord-like, and is chiefly composed of elastic fibres. It is termed the ligamentum thyro-hyoideum laterale, and extends from the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone to the extremity of the superior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. In this ligament there is usually developed a small oval cartilaginous or bony nodule which receives the name of the cartilago triticea. The deep surface of the lateral part of the thyro-hyoid membrane is covered by-the pharyngeal mucous membrane. Behind its central part lies the epiglottis, but separated from it by a- mass of adipose tissue (Fig. 618, p. 916). Crico-thyroid Membrane (membrana cricothyreoidea).—This is a very important structure, which must be considered in three parts, viz. a central and two lateral, all of which are directly continuous with each other, and differ only in the nature of their superior connexions. The central part of the crico-thyroid membrane is strong, tense, and elastic. It is triangular in shape, and is attached by its broad base to the upper border of the anterior arch of cricoid cartilage, whilst above, it is fixed to the middle part of the lower border of the thyroid cartilage (Fig. 612, p. 909). Ijt is pierced by minute apertures, and is crossed superficially by the crico-thyroid branch of the superior laryngeal artery. The central part of the crico-thyroid mem- brane, therefore, closes in front the interval between tlie cricoid and thyroid cartilages.