796 THE VASCULAK SYSTEM. between the adjacent transverse processes, beyond which they are continued in the abdominal wall. They lie on tlie bodies of the corresponding lumbar vertebrae. In their back- ward course, and while still in relation with the vertebral bodies, each artery is crossed by the sympathetic cord, and then, passing under and being protected by the fibrous arches from which the muscle arises, it runs behind the psoas muscle and the lumbar plexus. The upper two arteries on each side also pass behind the crura of the diaphragm. Beyond the interval between the transverse processes of the vertebrae each artery turns outwards and crosses the quadratus lumborum—the last usually passing in front, and the others behind the muscle; it then pierces the aponeurosis of origin of the transversalis, and proceeds forwards in the lateral abdominal wall in the interval between the transversalis and internal obhque muscles. The lumbar arteries anastomose with one another, with the lower inter- costal and subcostal arteries, and with liranches of the superior and deep epigastric and of the deep circumflex iliac and iho-lumbar arteries. Fine twigs also pass from the lumbar arteries to the extra-peritoneal fat, and anastomose with corresponding branches from the inferior phrenic and ilio-lumbar arteries, and with small branches from the hepatic, renal, and colic arteries, to form the subperitoneal plexus of Turner. The al:)dominal aorta lies somewhat to the left of the middle line, and con- sequently the right lumbar arteries are a little longer than the left, but the differ- ences between the arteries of opposite sides are limited to the first parts of the main trunks. On the right side the arteries, which near their origins lie more in front of the vertebral bodies, pass behind the inferior vena cava, the upper two arteries being separated from this vessel by the right cms of the diaphragm. The upper two right arteries also pass behind the receptaculum chyli and the lower end of the large azygos vein. Branches.—Dorsal (ramus dorsalis).—Each himbar artery gives off, opposite the interval between tlie vertebral transverse processes, a dorsal branch of considerable size. It is analogous with and distributed like the corresponding branch of an aortic intercostal artery (p. 793). Muscular branches are given off, both from the main trunk and its dorsal branch, to the adjacent muscles. 3. The middle sacral artery (a. sacralis media. Fig. 566) is a single median vessel. It is commonly regarded as a caudal aorta and as the direct continuation of the abdominal aorta. It is, however, of small size, and almost invariably arises from the back of the aorta about half-an-inch above its bifurcation. It descends in front of the two lower lumbar vertebra and of the sacrum and coccyx, and ends opposite the tip of the last-named bone by anastomosing with the lateral sacral arteries to form a loop from which branches pass to the coccygeal body. In its course it passes at first behind the lower part of the abdominal aorta. Opposite the fifth lumbar vertebra it is crossed by the left common iliac vein, below which it is covered by peritoneum and coils of small intestine as far as the third sacral seg- ment, and in the rest of its extent by the rectum. It is accompanied below by venae coniites, which, however, unite above to form a single middle sacral vein. Small parietal branches pass transversely outwards on each side to the last lumbar vertebra and to the sacrum. They anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries, and they usually give off small spinal offsets which enter the anterior sacral foramina. Small and irregular visceral branches pass to the rectum and anastomose with the superior and middle hfemorrhoidal arteries. COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. 4. The common iliac arteries (aa. iliacse communes. Figs. 566 and 572) are the terminal branches of the abdominal aorta. They are formed by the bifurcation of the main trunk, and commence opposite the middle of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra a httle to the left of the middle Hue. Each artery passes down- wards and outwards across the bodies of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae and the intervening intervertebral disc, and terminates in front of the correspond-