115 THE TEMPOKAL BONES. 8 a sympathetic plexus. In front of the jugular fossa, and internal to the orifice of the carotid canal, there is a V-shaped depression (fossula fenestne cochlete), on the floor of which and close to the posterior border is the orifice of the ■ aqueduct of the cochlea (apertura externa aqutieductus cochleae). In the fossa is lodged the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the aqueduct transmits a tubular pro- longation of the dura mater, which forms a channel of communication between the perilymph of the cochlea and the subarachnoid space. A small vein also passes through it. In front of and internal to the orifice of the carotid canal the under surface of the apex of the bone corresponds to a rough quadrilateral surface which forms the floor of the carotid canal, and also serves for the attachment of the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube as well as the origin of the levator palati muscle ; elsewhere it has attached to it the dense fibrous tissue which fills up the cleft (petro-basilar fissure) between it and the basilar process of the occipital bone. The superior or anterior surface bears the impress of the convolutions of the under surface of the temporal lobe of the cerebrum, which rests upon it; in addition, however, a distinct but shallow depression (impressio trigemini) near the apex, corresponding to the roof of the carotid canal, can be seen; in this is lodged the Gasserian ganglion on the sensory root of the V. cranial nerve. External to the middle of the upper surface, and close to its posterior border, is the elevation (eminentia arcuata), more or less pronounced, which marks the position of the ^perior semicircular canal here lodged within the bone. A little in front of this, and in line with the angle formed by the anterior border and the squamous part, is the slit-like opening of the hiatus Fallopii (hiatus canalis facialis), within the projecting lip of which two small orifices can usually be seen. These are the openings of the acLUseductus Fallopii (canalis facialis); if a bristle be passed through the inner of the two openings it will be observed to pass into the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, if into the outer, it will pass through the aqueduct of Fallopius, and, provided the channel be clear, will appear on the under surface of the bone at the stylo- mastoid foramen. Leading forwards and inwards from the hiatus towards the anterior border is a groove; in this lies the great superficial petrosal nerve which passes out of the hiatus. A small branch of the middle meningeal artery also enters the bone here. A little external to the hiatus is another small opening (apertura superior canalis tympanici), often difficult to see; from this a groove runs forwards which channels the upper surface of the roof of the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. Through this foramen and along this groove passes the lesser superficial petrosal nerve. Behind this, and in front of the arcuate eminence, the bone is usually thin (as may be seen by holding it up to the light falling through the external auditory meatus), roofing-in the cavity of the tympanum and forming the tegm'en tympani. Externally the line of fusion of the petrous with the squamous part is often indicated by a faint and irregular petro-squamous fissure. The most conspicuous object on the posterior surface of the petrous part of the bone is the internal auditory meatus (meatus acusticus internus), which has an oblique oval aperture and leads outwards and slightly downwards into'the substance of the bone, giving passage to the auditory and facial nerves, together with the pars inter- media. The canal appears to end blindly; but if it be large, or still better, if part of it be cut away, its fundus will be seen to be crossed by a horizontal ridge, the falciform crest, which divides it into two fossse, the floors of which (laminse cribrosce) are pierced by numerous small foramina for the branches of the auditory nerve and the vessels passing to the membranous labyrinth, whilst in the fore and upper part of the higher fossa the orifice of the Fallopian aqtueduct (canalis facialis), through which the facial nerve passes, is seen leading in the direction of the hiatus Fallopii (see ante). External to the internal auditory meatus and above it, close to the superior border, an irregular depression, often faintly marked, with one or two small foramina opening into it, is to be noticed. This is the floccular fossa (fossa subarcuata), best seen in young bones, where it forms a distinct recess, which is bounded above by the bulging caused by the superior semicircular canal, within the concavity of which it is placed; it lodges a process of the dura mater. Below and external to this, separated from it by a smooth, elevated curved ridge, is the opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule (apertura externa aquseductus vestibuli), often concealed