THE EADIAL AETEEY. 787 forwards through the first interosseous space to the pahn of the hand, where it joins the deep branch of the ulnar artery. -Posterior.- of -It passes successively in front of tlie Bieepi- Uracliial artel■^■ Median nervf _ Musc.ulo-spiral nerve Radial recurrent artery^ Brachialis auticus- Supinator longus-- Supinator brevi.'L Radial recurrent artery Supinator brevis^ Flexor subliniis digitorum- Radial artery Relations of the first part. following structures: the tendon insertion of the biceps, the supinator brevis, the pronator radii teres, the radial portion of the flexor subliniis digitorum, the flexor Ibngus pollicis, the pronator quadratus, and the anterior ligament of the wrist-joint. Anterior.— The artery is overlapped in the upper half by the anterior border of the supinator longus; in .the remainder of its extent it is covered only by skin and fascia. Lateral.—To the outer side is the supinator longus and the radial nerve. This latter lies quite near to the artery in its middle third. To the inner side is the pronator radii teres above and the flexor carpi radialis below. Two vena comites, one on each side, accompany the arterj'. Branches of the first part.— (1) The radial recurrent (a. rectu-rens radialis) arises in the ante-cubital fossa. It springs from the outer side of the radial in front of the supinator brevis. It runs outwards, passes between the radial and posterior interosseous nerves, and then ascends to the external condyle of the humerus, where it anastomoses with the anterior terminal branch of tlie superior profunda. The radial re- current supplies numerous muscular branches to the supinator longus, the supinator brevis, the extensor carpi radialis longior, and the extensor carpi radialis brevior. (2) Muscular branches (rami musculares) to the muscles on the radial side of the anterior aspect of the forearm. (3) The superficialis volse (ramus volaris superficialis. Fig. 563) is a slender vessel which arises a short distance above the wrist and runs down- wards across the ball of the thumb. It usually pierces the superficial muscles of the thenar eminence, and terminates either in their substance or by uniting with the ulnar artery and completing the superficial palmar arch of the hand. (4) An anterior radial carpal branch (ramus carpeus volaris) passes inwards beneath the flexor tendons and their synovial sheaths, and crosses the anterior carpal ligaments. It anastomoses with the anterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery to form the anterior carpal arch, and it receives communications from the anterior interosseous artery and from the deep palmar arch. Radialis indieis_ artery Flexor longus pollicis Superlicialis voUe- Superticial palmar arch Digital ' arteries Fig. 563.—Superficial Dissection of the THE FoiiBARM AND HAND, showing the Front of radial and ulnar arteries and the superficial palmar arch with its branches.