118 OSTEOLOGY. posterior joins the post - auditory process of the squamo - zygomatic above mentioned. Below, it blends internally with the portion of the petro-mastoid which forms the floor of the tympanum, and ensheathes the tympanohyal behind. From the outer side of the lower part of this ring two tubercles arise ; these grow outwards, and so form the floor of the external auditory meatus. The interval between them remains unossified till about the age of five or six, after which closure takes place. This deficiency may, how- ever, persist even in adult life (see ante, Variations). At birth the temporal bone can usually be separated into its component parts. The outer surface of the petrous part not only forms the inner wall of the tympanum, but is Fig. 91.—A. The Outer Surface of the Right Temporal Bone at Birth. B. The Same with Squamo-zygomatic Portion Removed. (The lettering is the same in both A and B.) a. Tympanic ring. 6, Inner wall of tympanum. c, Fenestra rotunda, d, Foramen ovale, e, Mastoid. f, Mastoid process, g, Masto-.squamosal suture, with foramen for transmission of vessels, h, Squamo-zygomatic, removed in figure B to show liow its descending process forms the outer wall of the mastoid antrum. Fig. 91.—C. Inner Surface of the Right Temporal Bone at Birth. a, Squamo - zygomatic. h, Petro- squamosal suture and foramen (just above the end of the lead line), c, Subarcuate fossa, d, Aquseductus vestibuli. e, Aquaeductus cochleae. /, Internal auditory meatus. g, Upper end of carotid canal. hollowed out behind and above to form the inner side of the mastoid antrum, the outer wall of which is completed by the post-auditory process of the squamo-zygomatic. As yet the mastoid process is undeveloped. It only assumes its nipple-like form about the second year. Towards puberty its cancellous tissue becomes permeated with air spaces, which are in communication with and extensions from the mastoid antrum. The external auditory meatus is unossified in front and below, the outgrowth from the tympanic ring occurring subsequent to birth. The glenoid fossa is shallow and everted ; the jugular fossa is ill-marked ; whilst the subarcuate fossa is represented by a deep pit, the so-called floccular fossa of comparative anatomy. The hiatus Fallopii is an open groove, displaying at either end the openings of the inner and outer portions of the Fallopian aqueduct. The Sphenoid Bone. The Sphenoid bone (os sphenoidale) lies in front of the basioccipital mesially, • and the teuiporals on either side. It enters into the formation of the cranial, orbital, and nasal cavities, as well as the temporal, zygomatic, pterygoid, and spheno-maxillary fossa?. It consists of a body with three pairs of expanded pro- cesses, the great wings, the lesser wings, and the pterygoid processes. The body (corpus), more or less cubical in form, is hollow, and contains witliin - it the two large sphenoidal air sinuses. These are separated by a partition, which is usually deflected to one or other side of the middle line. Each sinus extends outwards for a short distance into the root of the great wing, and downwards and outwards towards the l)ase of the pterygoid process of the same side. They communicate by apertures with the upper and back part of the nasal fossne. In the adult the posterior aspect of the body displays a sawn surface due to its separation from the basioccipital with which in the adult it is firmly ankylosed. The superior surface, fiom the fore angles of which the lesser wings arise, displays an appearance comparable to that of an oriental saddle. Over its middle there is a deej) depression, the sella turcica or pituitary fossa (fossa liypophyseos), in which is lodged the