600 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. (1) Muscular branches to the quadratus (4) Genito-crural. (5) Exterual cutaneous. (6) Obturator. (7) Anterior crural. lumborum and psoas. (2) Ilio-hypogastric. (3) Ilio-inguinal. The nerves to the quadratus lumborum muscle arise independently from the first three or four lumbar nerves (and sometimes also from the twelfth thoracic nerve). The nerves to the psoas muscles arise from the second and third lumbar nerves, with additions, in some cases, from the first or fourth. They are often associated in their origin with the nerve to the iliacus from the anterior crural. The psoas minor, when present, is innervated by the highest of the nerves in question. The iUo-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves closely resemble in their course and distribution the lower thoracic nerves, with which they are in series. The ilio-hypogastric nerve (n. ilio-hypogastricus) is the highest branch of the first lumbar nerve. It receives fibres also from the twelfth thoracic, when that nerve communicates with the first lumbar nerve. After traversing the psoas muscle obliquely, it appears at its outer border on the surface of the quadratus lumborum and behind the kidney. It courses through the loin, lying between the transversalis and obliquus internus muscles, above the crest of the ilium. About an inch in front of the anterior superior spine it pierces the obliquus internus, and continiies its course in the groin beneath the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus. It finally becomes cutaneous in the anterior abdominal wall, by piercing the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus about an inch and a half a])ove the external abdominal ring (Fig. 442, p. 603). Its branches are—(1) muscular to the muscles of the abdominal wall; and (2) cutaneous hranclies, two in number. The iliac branch corresponds with the lateral branch of an intercostal nerve, and, after piercing the obliquus internus and obliqiius externus, becomes cutaneous just above the iliac crest, below and behind the iliac branch of the last thoracic nerve. It is small, and may be absent. It is distributed to the skin over the upper part of the outer side of the buttock, in con- tinuity with the cutaneous branch of the posterior primary division of the first lumbar nerve. The hypogastric branch is the anterior terminal branch of the nerve. It supplies the skin of the anterior abdominal wall })elow the level of the last thoracic nerve and above the pubis. The ilio-inguinal nerve (n. ilio-inguinalis) is the second branch given off from the first lumbar nerve. It also may receive fibres from the last thoracic nerve. Not unfrequently the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves are repre- sented for a longer or shorter part of their course by a single trunk. When separate the nerve takes a course similar to that of the ilio-hypogastric nerve, but at a lowel' level, as far as the anterior abdominal wall. It then pierces the obliquus internus further forward and lower down than the ilio-hypogastric; and coursing forwards beneath the aponeurosis of the ol^liquus externus, just above Poupart's ligament, it becomes superficial after passing through the external abdominal ring and external spermatic fascia (Fig. 442, p. 603). Its branches are muscular to the muscles of the abdominal wall, among which it passes, and cutaneous hranclies, which innervate the skin (1) of the anterior abdominal wall over the symphysis pubis, (2) of the thigh over the upper and inner part of Scarpa's triangle, and (3) of the upper part of the scrotum, and root and dorsum of the penis (of the mons Veneris and labium majus in the female). These last-named branches are contiguous to branches of the pudendal and pudic nerves. No lateral cutaneous branch arises from the ilio-inguinal nerve. It thus corresponds, like the hypogastric part of the ilio-hypogastric nerve, to the anterior trunk of a typical thoracic nerve. The genito-crural nerve (n. genito-femoralis) usually arises by two independent roots from the front of the first and second lumbar nerves, which unite in the substance of the psoas to form a slender trunk. It appears on the posterior abdominal wall, lying on the psoas magnus, internal to the psoas parvus, and, piercing the psoas fascia, it extends downwards on the outer side of the common and external iliac vessels and behind the ureter to Poupart's hgament (Fig. 440, p. 599). At a variable point above that ligament it divides into genital and crural branches. The genital branch is a minute nerve. It crosses the terminations of the external iliac vessels, and,