VASCULAR AND PIGMENTED TUNIC OF THE EYE. 685 propria and possessing a thickness of 6-8/x at the centre and 10-12/a at the peri- phery of the cornea. Less firmly attached than the anterior elastic lamina, it may be stripped off, when it will be found to roll up with its attached surface inwards. Between the ages of twenty and thirty small wart-like projections appear on its deep surface, near its peripher}", and these increase in size and number as years advance, so that in old age the membrane may attain a thickness of 20 fx. Towards the periphery of the cornea the lamina divides into three sets of fibres — anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior fibres pass behind the canal of Schlemm into the sclera, the middle give attachment to the ciliary muscle, while the posterior are continued as radiating and anastomosing fibres into the substance of the iris, and constitute the ligamentum pectinatum iridis. A number of irregular spaces, the spaces of Fontana, or spatia auguli iridis, exist between the fibres of this pectinate ligament. Better developed in the horse and ox than in man, these spaces are lined by a prolongation of the corneal endothelium, and communicate internally with the anterior chamber and with the lymph spaces of the iris, and externally with the canal of Schlenmi. 5. The layer of endothelium (endothelium camerte anterioris) consists of a single stratum of nucleated, flattened, polygonal cells, which present a fibrillar structure and are continued as a lining to the spaces of Fontana; this layer of endothelium is also reflected on to the anterior surface of the iris. Vascular and Nervous Supply of the Cornea.—lu the fcetus the cornea is traversed, almost as far as its centre, by capillaries ; l)ut in the adult it is devoid of blood-vessels, except near its margin. The capillaries of the conjunctiva and sclera pass into this marginal area for a distance of about 1 mm., where they terminate in loops. All the remainder of the cornea is nourished by the lymph which circulates in its cell spaces and canaliculi. The nerves of the cornea, discovered by Schlemm, are derived from the ciliary nerves. Around its periphery they form a plexus, the plexus annularis, from which fibres pass into the cornea, where, after a distan(."e of 1 or 2 mm., they lose their medullary sheath and ramify in the substantia propria, forming what is termed the fundamental or stroma plexus. Perforating fibres (fibra' perforantes) extend from this plexus through the anterior elastic lamina and form a sub- epithelial plexus, from which fine filaments ramify between the epithelial cells as far as the super- ficial layers. From the aimular and stroma plexuses fibrils pass to the substantia propria and come into close relation with the corneal corpuscles. VASCULAR AND PIGMENTED TUNIC. The middle, vascular, and pigmented tunic (tunica vasculosa oculi) comprises, from behind forwards, the chorioid, the ciliary body, and tlie iris (Fig. 493). The chorioid (chorioidea) intervenes between the sclera and the retina, reaching as far forwards as.the ora serrata of the latter (p. 689). Dark brown or black in colour, it is pierced pos- teriorly by the optic nerve, and is here firmly attached to the sclera. Thicker behind than in front, its outer surface is flocculent and is con- nected to the sclera by the ciliary vessels and nerves, and by the loose lamina fusca. Its inner surface is smooth and adheres to the outermost or pigmented layer of the retina. The chorioid consists of blood-vessels and branched pigment cells embedded in a loose connective tissue, and presents from without inwards three layers, viz.: (a) the lamina suprachorioidea; (6) the proper tissue of the chorioid; and (c) a thin transparent membrane, the lamina basalis or membrane of Bruch (Fig. 495). 1. The lamina suprachorioidea reseml^les the lamina fusca of the sclera and Membrane of Brucli Lamina Sclera Fig. 195.—Vertical Section of Chorioid and Inner Part of sci.kka.