1010 THE I)K;ESTIVE syste.m. brauclies, M'liicli enter the luueous meiiiltraiie and torni (■a)>illarv plexui^e.s aniund tlie glanils as tar as tlic surface. Tile veins begin in tlu> eajiillary ]ilexuses ardund the glands ; uniting, lliey ibrm a netwdrk in the sulniiucdsa., from -wliich arise branches tliat ])ierce the niuscuhir coat, and finally end in the following veins ; the right iidstrii-epiphiic, w\\u-\i joins the superior mesenteric; the left (/astro- ep'iploic, and four or five veins corresjionding to the n(sii liirviit nrfcrics, which join the s])leuit ; the coronary or gastric rein, which runs along the lesser curvature towards the cardia, receives an (■cso2)hageal l)ranch, and then turns down and runs l)eside the coronary artery to join the j)ortal trunk ; and the ^)(//or?V rein, corres])onding to the same named artei-y, \vliich also joins the ])orta]. Tliese veins contain numerous valves, wliich, tliough competent to pi-event the i-eturn of blocid in the child, are rarely so in the adult. Thelymphaticsari.se in the mucous membrane around tlie gastric glands ; they then join a plexus of vah ed \essels in the submucosa, from whicli the cliief trunks pass M itli the blood- x'essels to the cui'vatnres, being joined on the way by tlie efferent vessels of a subjieritoneal lymphatic jilexus. They are connected with the superioi' gastric glands along the lessei' cui-va- tures, the inferior gastric glands along the great curvature, and the splenic glands, which they reach with the vasa Ijrevia. Finally, the efferent vessels of all these join the ctcliac glands. The nerves are derived from the two pneiiiiiogiistricK and from the x(d(tr plans of the symjiathetic. The jmeumogastric nerves pass down through the diaphragm M'ith the ccso])hagus, the left lying on its front, the right on its back ; in tliis way they reach the n])])er and lower surfaces of the stomach lesjtectively. Here they unite with tlie sympathetic hbres from the cccliac plexus (an offshoot of the .solar i)lexus), which jiass to the stomach with the liranclies of the cocliac axis. The nerve filires, wliich are chiefly non-niedullated, form two gangliated l)lexuses, those of Auerl)acli and Meissner, in the muscular and submucous coats respectively. The develojtment of the stomach is described with that of the intestines on page 10.55. intestines. As tlie coats of the remaining portions of the digestive tube agree in many particulars, it will lie convenient to descrilie the general structure of the intestines here. Subsequently, any peculiarities of structure in particular regions will be descril)e(l with the corresponding division of the tulie. Structuke of the Intestines. 'I'lie wall of the intestines, like that of the stonuicli, is made up of four coats, which are named from without inwards—serous or peritoneal, muscular, submucous, and nmcouis (Figs. 683 and 6S-1). 1- Serous Coat (tunica serosa).—This is formed (jf pei'itonevmi, and confers mi tiie Fk;. 68.3.—A Portion of Smai.i. Intkstink. with Mksenteky .\m) Vessels. The peritoneal co.it lias lieeii removed from tlie rifilit lialt, ami the two layei'.s ot tlie muscular coat e.\posed. intestines their smooth and glossy appearance. It varies in the extent to which it clothes the different divisions of the tube, giving the duodenum, the ascending, descending, and iliac colons, and the rectum only a })artial covering; whilst it clothes the jejumun and ileum, the ciecum, the transverse and the pelvic colons completely. The detailed