BLOOD SINUSES OF THE CEANIUM. 841 The basilar sinus (plexus l)asilari.s).—The term basilar sinus is applied to a venous plexus situated in the dura mater on the basilar part of the occipital bone. It connects the posterior ends of the cavernous or the anterior ends of the inferior petrosal sinuses together, and commxmicates below with the anterior spinal veins. The straight sinus (sinus rectus) is formed by the union of the inferior longi- tudinal sinus with the great vein of Galen. It runs downwards and backwards, along the Hue of attachment of the falx cerebri to the tentorium cerebelli. As a general rule it tui-ns to the left at the internal occipital protul)erance, dilates some- what, and becomes continuous with the left lateral sinus, its dilatation being united with the corresponding dilatation on the lower end of the superior longitudinal sinus—the torcular Herophili—hj a transverse anastomosing channel. Occasion- ally the straight sinus terminates in the right lateral sinus, and in that case the superior longitudinal sinus ends in the left lateral sinus. It receives some of the superior cerebellar veins and a few tributaries from the falx cerebri. Paired Sinuses.—There are six pairs of sinuses—viz. the lateral, the occipital, the cavernous, the superior petrosal, the inferior petrosal, and the spheno-parietal. Lateral Sinuses.—Each lateral sinus (sinus transversus) commences at the internal occipital protuljerance, the right usually as the continuation of the superior longitudinal, and the left as the continuation of the straight sinus. Each passes outwards in the outer border of the tentorium cerebelli and in a groove in the occipital bone. From the lateral angle of the occipital bone it passes on to the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, which it grooves; then it leaves the tentorium and turns downwards on the inner surface of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone ; from the latter it passes to the upper surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone, and turns forwards and then downwards into the jugular foramen, where it becomes continuous with the internal jugu^lar vein. Its tributaries are some of the superior and inferior cerebellar veins, a, posterior diploic vein, and the superior petrosal sinus. It is connected with the veins out- side the cranium by emissary veins which pass through the mastoid and posterior condylar foramina. The occipital sinuses (sinus occipitales) lie in the attached border of the falx cerebelli and in the dura mater along the postero-lateral boundaries of the foramen magnum; frequently they unite above and open by a single channel into the com- mencement of either the right or the left lateral sinus, but their upper extremities may remain separate, and then each communicates with the commencement of the lateral sinus of its own side. They open below into the terminal part of the corre- sponding lateral sinuses, and, they communicate with the posterior spinal veins. Each occipital sinus is an anastomosing channel between tTae upper and lower extremities of the lateral sinus of the same side, and each receives a few inferior cerebellar veins. The cavernous sinuses lie at the sides of the body of the sphenoid bone. Each sinus (sinus cavernosus) commences anteriorly at the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure, where it receives the corresponding ophthalmic vein, and it terminates at the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone by dividing into the superior and the inferior petrosal sinuses. Its cavity, which is irregular in size and shape, is so divided by numerous fibrous strands that it assumes the appearance of cavernous tissue, and in its outer wall are embedded the internal carotid artery with its sympathetic plexuses, the third, fourth, first and second divisions of the fifth, and the sixth cranial nerves. Its tributaries are the spheno-parietal sinus and the inferior cerebral veins, including the superficial Sylvian vein. It com- municates with the opposite cavernous sinus by means of the circular sinus; with the pterygoid plexus in the zygomatic fossa by an emissary vein which passes either through the foramen ovale or through the foramen Vesahi; with the internal jugular vein by small venous channels whicli accompany the internal carotid artery through the carotid canal, and by the inferior petrosal sinus; with the lateral sinus by the superior petrosal sinus, and through the ophthalmic vein with the angular vein. The spheno-parietal sinuses (s. spheno-parietales) are lodged in the dura mater on the under surfaces of the small wings of the sphenoid bone close to their posterior