338 THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. in front of the sheath, is derived solely from the iliac portion of the fascia lata. It forms a strong triangular band of fascia attached above to the inner half of Poupart's ligament, and is known as the falciform ligament. It has an important share in directing the course of a femoral hernia upwards on to the abdominal wall. Internally in relation to the adductor muscles of the thigh the fascia lata becomes much thinner. At the hnee it is associated with the tendons of the vasti muscles, and forms the lateral ligaments of the patella, attached to the borders of the patella and to the tuberosities of the tibia. Externally it gives rise to the Obliquus extebnus muscle Aponeurosis of obliquus externus Iiitercolumnar fibres Poupart's ligament- Iliac portion of fascia lata External cutaneous nerve Falciform ligament Crural sheatli Femoral vein Femoral artei \ Genito-orural ner\ Inferior cornu of saphenous opening Femoral lymphatic glaiul Internal saphenous vein Eleventh thoracic nerve Twelfth thoracic nerve -H— Ilio-hypogastrlc nerve Intenm/ } I''^''"'^ external abdominal ring External abdominal ring and spermatic cord Suspensory ligament of penis llio-inguinal nerve Body of penis Dartos muscle of scrotum Middle cutaneous nerve Middle cutaneous nerve Pubic portion of fascia lata Fig. 249.—The Groin—the Structures seen o.n eemoval of the Superficial Fascia. ilio-tibial band—a broad thick layer of fascia which is attached above to the iliac crest, and receives the insertions of two muscles in the upper part of the thigh— the tensor fasciae femoris, and part of the gluteus maximus; it is attached below to the capsule of the knee-joint and the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The fascia beneath the tensor fascite femoris muscle, continued upwards from the ilio-tibial band, sends a strong band inwards which joins the origin of the rectus femoris and the capsule of the hip-joint. On either side of the thigh above the knee an intermuscular septum is formed; the external intermuscular septum extends inwards from the ilio-tibial band to the external supra-condyloid ridge of the femur, and gives attachment to the vastus externus and crureus in front, and the short head of the biceps behind. The internal intermuscular septum is more complex. It is represented by a layer of fascia which forms separate envelopes for the gracilis and sartorius muscles, and in the upper and middle thirds of the thigh encloses the adductor muscles. In the lower third of the thigh it is for the most part replaced by the tendon of the adductor magnus; in the middle third of the thigh the fascia is specially thickened by- transverse fibres connecting together the adductor muscles and the vastus interuus. This sheet of fascia forms a special aponeurosis beneath the sartorius, which roofs over the femoral artery in Hunter's canal. The fascia lata of the buttock is thick anteriorly in relation to the gluteus medius, thinner posteriorly over the gluteus maximus, at the upper border of which it splits to enclose and assist in forming the insertion of the muscle. On the back of the thigh and over the popliteal space the fascia is strengthened by transverse fibres derived from the hamstring muscles. The popliteal fascia