503 OPTIC THALAMUS. over the choroid plexus of this cavity. The inner area, which iuchides tlie hinder end of the thalamus, intervenes between the lateral and tliird ventricles of the l)rain, and takes no part in the formation of the walls of either. It is covered by a fold of pia mater, termed the velum interpositum, above which is the fornix, and these two structures intervene between the thalamus and the corpus callosum. The anterior extremity of the thalamus, called the anterior tubercle (tuberculum anterius thalami), foi'ms a marked l»ulging. It projects into the lateral ventricle, behind and to tlie oiiter side of the free portion of the anterior pillar of the fornix. The foramen of Monro, a narrow aperture'of communication between the lateral and third ventricles of the brain, is bounded in front by the anterior pillar of the fornix and behind by the anterior tubercle of the thalamus. The posterior extremity of the thalamus is very prominent and forms a cushion- like projection, which overhangs the brachia of the corpora cpiadrigemina. This prominence is called the pulvinar. Another oval bulging on the hinder part of the tlialamus receives the name of the corpus geniculatum externum. It is situated below, and to the outer side of, the pulvinar, and presents a very intimate connexion with the optic tract. The mesial surfaces of the two thalami are placed very close together, and are covered not only by the lining ependyma of the third ventricle, but also by a tolerably thick layer of gray matter, continuous below with the central gray substance which surrounds the aqueduct of Sylvius in the mesencephalon. A band of gray matter, termed the gray or soft commissure (commissura mollis), crosses the third ventricle and joins the inner surfaces of the two thalami together. Intimate Structure and Connexions of the Optic Thalamus.—The upper surface of the thalamus is covered by the stratum zonale, a thin coating of wliite fibres derived to some extent from the optic tract, and probably also from the optic radiation. The inner surface has a thick coating of central gray matter, whilst intervening between the internal capsule and the outer surface is the lamina medullaris externa. The lower surface merges into the subthalamic region. The gray matter of the optic thalamus is marked off into three very apparent parts—termed the anterior, the mesial, and the lateral thalamic nuclei—by a thin vertical sheet of white matter, termed the lamina medullaris interna. The lateral nucleus (nucleus lateralis thalami) is by far the largest of the three. It is placed between the internal and the external medullary laminae, and it stretches back- wards beyond the mesial nucleus, and thus includes the whole of the pulvinar (Fig. 375). The mesial nucleus (nucleus medialis thalami) only reaches as far back as the habenular region. It is placed between the central gray matter of the third ven- tricle and the internal medullary lamina. The lateral nucleiis is more extensively pervaded by fibres than the mesial nucleus. From the lateral nucleus by far the greatest number of the fibres which form the radiatio thalami pass, and these are seen crossing it in various directions towards the lamina medullaris externa. The anterior nucleus (nucleus anterior thalami) is the smallest of the three thalamic nuclei. It forms the prominent anterior tubercle, and is prolonged in a wedge- shaped manner, for a short distance, downwards and backwards between the anterior parts of the mesial and lateral nuclei. The internal medullary lamina splits into two parts and partially encloses the anterior nucleus. In connexion^ with its large cells a very conspicuous bundle of fibres, the bundle of Vicci d'Azyr (fasciculus thalamo-mammillaris), which arises in the corpus mammillare, comes to an end. Two other small nuclear masses are found in the snbstance of the ojitic thalaiuiis behind the mesial nucleus. These aie called the central nucleus of Luys and the nucleus arcuatus. In section the former appears as a circular mass of gray mattc]-, which comes into view immediately behind the point where the internal medullary lamina disappears. It would seem to be intimately connected with fibres wliicli reach it from the red nucleus and from the posterior commissure. These fibres pass round it so as to mark it off from tlie rest of the thahimus, and in front of the nucleus many of them enter the internal medullary lauiina. Tlie nucleus arcuatus is a small semilunar mass of gray uiatter placed below the central nucleus of Luys. The connexions of the thalamus are of an extremely intricate kind. It would appear to be a ganglionic mass interposed between the tegmental corticipetal tracts and the cerebral cortex. In its hinder part, and through its stratum zonale, it also