1082 UROGENITAL SYSTEM. elevations separating these areas correspond to the angles along whicli tlie different mnscular planes meet. These ridges can I)e ol)served in the hardened kidney after its removal from the body, hnt they are nsnally not very sharj)ly defined, the angles between the muscular planes l)eing very obtuse. A kidney liardened in sitit (Fig. 729) ya-esents an area near the inner part of Pleura niac crest (juadratiis luiiiljonini Iliac crest Flu. 728.- -The Posterior JIeeationships of the Kidney.-). The dotted lines indicate the contours of tlie kidneys. The drawing is made from a model prepared by Professor C'uuningham. its posterior surface adapted to the anterior aspect of the. psoas muscle. This part of the posterior surface looks inwards and slightly backwards. Farther out there is a larger area which, resting against the quadratus luinborum, looks more directly backwards. These two areas are separated by a rounded ridge which fits into the angle l)etween the muscles mentifined. Beyond the area in contact witli the quadratus lumliorum is the thick outer Ijorder of the kidney. Towards the up])er end of the kidney the posterior surface slopes forwards and rests upon the diaphragm. Indeed the upper part of the kidney is, as a whole, bent slightly forwards, following that part of the arch of the diaphragm on which it rests, and thus a narrow interval is left, in which the pleural cavity passes down behind the ujjyter end of the kidney (Fig. 728). This relationship of the pleural cavity to the kidney is of importance in connexion with sui'gieal operations performed in the lumbar region. The portions of the diaphragm to which the kidney is applied are the crus and the parts arising from the last rib and arcuate ligaments. In iidditioii to tliese surfaces or facets for the muscles with which it is in contact, tlie posterior aspect or outer border of the kidney often shows a groove for the last rib, another for the external arcuate ligament, and two or three depressions for the tij^s of the transverse jjrocesses of the uppta' two or three lumbar vertebra;. In some cases also faint narrow groo^•es are to Ije seen for the nerves wliich pass downwards and outwards between the kidney and quadratus luinborum— namely, the last doi-sal nerve and the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerve.s.