THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1014 most nuinei'dus in the ileum, particularly in its lower part, where they iisually assume an oblong shape ; in the lower half of the jejunum tliey are small, circular, and few in numI)Br; in its upper part they are rare ; and, although their presence has l)een noted in the lower portion of the duodenum, they may l)e said to l)e as a general rule absent from this division (»f the intestine. Tlie valvulaj (■(Hiniveiite.s stoji at the margins ot" Fever's jiatclies, and are nut continued across tlieiu ; liut villi are found on the sni'i'ace of tlie ])atclies, in the intervals between the lvni])hoid nodules. The <'hief liowel lesion in fyjihoid fever is found in Peyer's patches and the solitary glands. Wlien the surface of a Peyei-'s jiatch from a cliild's intestine (in which these structures ai'e particularly well developed) is carefully e.xamined, it is seen to be made up, not of a series of separate, rounded nodules grouped together, but rather of a number of wavy, irregular, and branching ridges connected with one another by cross branches (Fig. 686), the whole recalling in miniature, the appearance of a rai.sed map of a very mountainous district in which the chief chains run irregular coui-.ses, and are joined to one another by connecting ridges. Small patches, intermediate in form between solitary glands and Peyer's ])atches, and consist- ing of two or three l}^m])hoid nodules, are also usually ])resent. THE SMALL INTESTINK The small intestine is the portion of the digestive tu1>e which is placed between the stomach and the beginning of the large intestine. It commences at the pylorus, where it is continuous with the stomach, and ends at the ileo-crecal valve l>y joining the large intestine. It occupies the greater portion of the abdominal cavity below the liver and stomach (Fig. 671), and is found in the umbilical, hypogastric, and l)oth lumliar regions; also, )>ut to a less extent, in the other regions of the abdomen, and in the pelvic cavity. In hngtli, the small intestine usually measures over 20 feet. According to .Treves, it is 22\ ft. in the male, 23 in the female, whilst Jonnesco gives the average length at 24 ft. 7 ins., or 7| metres. In form it is cylindrical, with a diameter varying from nearly two inches (47 mm.) in the duodenum to a little over an inch (27 mm.) at the end of the ileum; there is thus a gradual diminution in its size from the pylorus to the ileo-caecal valve. This portion of the digestive tube is divided more or less arl)itrarily into three parts (Fig. 636)—namely, the duodenum, constituting tlie first eleven inches, dis- tinctly marked off from the rest l)y its fixation and the absence of a mesentery ; the jejunum, whicli comprises the upper two-fifths, and the ileum, the lower three-fifths of the remainder. The two latter parts pass imperceptibly into one another, and the line of division drawn between them is entirely artificial; hovs^ever, if typical parts of the two—namely, the beginning of the jejunum and the end of the ileum—be selected, they differ so much in size and in the appearance presented by their lining mucous membrane, that they can ])e distinguished from one another without difficulty. Both the jejunum and ileum are irregularly disposed in the form of crowded loops or coils (Fig. 670) which a.re connected to the posterior abdominal wall by a great fan-shaped fold of peritoneum, containing their vessels and nerves, and known as the mesentery. This is of such a length that the coils are al)le to move about freely in the abdominal cavity, and consequently the position occupied liy any portion of the tube, with the exception of the beginning of the jejunum ami the ending of the ileum, can never be stated with certainty. Nevertheless, it may be said that, in general, the jejunum occupies the upper and left portions of the cavity below the stomach, the ileum the lower and right divisions, its terminal part almost always lying in the pelvis, just before it joins the large gut. The small intestine is i-elatively longer in the child than in the adult ; at birth it is to the total height of the child as 7 to 1, whilst in the adult the ^jrojiortion is as 4 to 1. Notwithstanding Treves' results, it is generally held that the small gut is relatively longer in the male than the female. It should i^erhaiJS be added that in formalin-hardened bodies the .small bowel larely measures more than 12 or 13 feet in length. Similarly its diameter is often j-educed in ])laces to h or ^ inch (12-5 to 18-7 mm.), although the greater jiart of the gut may I'ctain its usual width : these narrow jiarts have api)arentlv ))een fi.ved in a state of contraction.