THE SCAPULA. 183 means of the coraco-acromial ligament. Its under surface is smooth and overhangs the shoulder joint. The supraspinous fossa, of much less extent than the infraspinous, is placed above the spine, the upper surface of which assists in forming its curved floor; in it is lodged the supraspinatus muscle. The suprascapular notch opens into it above, whilst below and externally it communicates with the infraspinous fossa l:»y the great scapular notch, through which the suprascapular artery and nerve pass to reach the infraspinous fossa. The infraspinous fossa, overhung by the spine above, is of triangular form. The axillary border of the bone limits it in front, whilst the vertebral margin bounds it l)ehind ; the greater part of this surface affords origin to the infraspinatus muscle, excepting a well-defined area which skirts the axillary border and inferior angle of the bone, and which affords an attachment to the fibres of origin of the teres minor. This muscle extends along the posterior surface of the axillary border in its upper two-thirds, reaching nearly as high as the glenoid edge ; whilst a crescentic surface, which occupies the lower third of the axillary border and curves backward round the posterior aspect of the inferior angle, furnishes an origin for the teres major muscle. Here also, near the inferior angle, are occasionally attached some of the fibres of the latissimus dorsi muscle. The ventral aspect (facies costalis) of the body is hollow from above downwards and from side to side, the greatest depth being in correspondence with the spring of the spine from the dorsal surface. Its inner boundary, which is formed by the anterior lipped edge of the vertebral border, affords attachment to the fibres of insertion of the serratus magnus along the greater part of its extent. The area of insertion of this muscle is, however, considerably increased over the anterior aspects of the superior and inferior angles respectively. Eunning down from the head and neck above to the inferior angle Ijelow, there is a stout rounded ridge of bone, which imparts a fulness to the anterior aspect of the axillary border and increases the depth of the ventral lioUow; to this, as well as to the fioor of the fossa, the sul)- scapularis muscle is attached.. The tendinous intersections of this muscle leave their imprint on this surface of the bone in a series of three or four rough lines which converge towards the neck. Nutrient Foramina.—Foramina for tlie passaj^e of mitrient ^n-ssels are s(_'fu in diftVi't'iit parts of the, Ijoue ; tlic most constant in position is one wliicli opens into tlie infras])inous fossa, al wnt an incli or so from the sea])ular notcli. Others are met witli on tlie upper and under surfaces of the spine, on the ventral aspect near its deepest part, and also around the glenoid margin. Connexions.—The scapula is not directly connected witli the trunk, \>x\t articulates with the outer end of the clavicle, in union with which it forms the shoujdei' girdle supporting the humerus on its glenoid surface. Placed on tlie upper and l)ack pai-t of the thorax, it covers the ribs from the second to the seventh inclusive. Possessed of a wide range of movement, it alters its position according to the attitude of the linih, rising or falling, lieiug drawn inwards or outwards, or being rotated upon itself according as the arm is moved in A'arious dii'ections. These changes in positicm can easily he determined by recognising the altered relations of the subciitaneous and bony prominences, more especially the former, which include the spine, the acromion process, and the lower half of the vertel)ral border. Architecture.—For so light and thin a bone, the scapuhi ]iossesses a remarkable ligidity. This is owing t(3 the arrangement of .its ]iarts. Stout and thick where it supports the glenoid surface and coracoid i)rocess, the rest of the l)one is tliin, excejit along the a.xillary border ; but strength is imparted to the body by the manner in which the s])ine is fused at right angles to its posterior surface. Variations.—The most conunon variation met with is a separated acromion proce.ss. In these cases there has been faihu-e in the ossific union between the spine and acromion, the junction between the two being effected by a layer of cartilage cr an articulation possessing a joint cavity. The condition is usually symmetrical on both sides, though instances are recorded where this arrangement is luiilateral. Very nuu-h rarer is the condition in which tlie coracoid jirocess is separable from the rest of the bone. The size and form of the suprasca2)ular notch differs. In certain cases the superior border of the bone describes a uniform cui've reaching the base of the coracoid without any indication of a notch. In some sca]iul;e, more particularly in those of very old peo])le, the floor of the suljscapular fossa is deficient owing to the absorption of the thin bone, the periosteal layers alone filling nj) the gap. At birth the vertical length of the licme is less in i)ro])ortion to its width than in the adult. Ossification.—Ossification begins in the body of the cartilaginous scapula about the end of the second mouth of foetal life. At birth the head, neck, body, spine, and base of the coracoid process are well defined ; the vertebral border, inferior angle, glenoid fossa, acromion and coracoid processes, are still cartilaginous. The centre for the upper and