473 THE EOOF OF THE FOUETH VENTRICLE. ventricle is carried backwards into the cerebellum between 'the two vela, which thus form a peaked and tent-like root for it. Relation of the Tract of Gowers to the Superior Medullary Velum.—The ascending tract of Gowers has been noticed in connexion with tiie lateral column of the cord (p. 433). The fibres which compose it are carried upwards through the formatio Middle commissure Taenia thalami Choroid plexus ventricle IV. Fig. 351.—Mesial-Section through the Corpus Callosum, the Mesencephalon, the Pons, Medulla, AND Cerebellum, Shovi'ing the third and fourtli ventricles joined by the aqueduct of Sylvius. reticularis grisea of the medulla and the corresponding part of the tegmental portion of the pons. In this part of its course the fibres are scattered and do not form a compact strand. Reaching the upper end of the pons the tract turns backwards, enters the superior medullary velum, and proceeds downwards in it into the cerebellum. Roof of the Fourth Ventricle.—In its upper part the roof of the fourth ventricle is formed by the superior medullary velum as it stretches across between the two superior cerebellar peduncles, and also, to some extent, by the approximation of these peduncles themselves as they approach the mesencephalon. In its lower part the roof of the ventricle is exceedingly thin and is not all formed of nervous matter. The inferior medullary velum enters into its formation, and, where this fails, the epithelial lining of the cavity, supported by pia mater, is carried downwards towards the lower boundaries of the floor of the ventricle. At the lowest part of the calamus scriptorius, and also along each lateral boundary of the floor, a ■ thin lamina of white matter is carried for a short distance over the epithelial roof. The small lamina at the calamus scriptoxnus overhangs the opening of the central canal, and is termed the obex. The lamina in connexion with the lateral boundary of the ventricular floor is more extensive, and is called the ligula {Figs. 333 and 335). It begins on the clava and passes upwards over the cuneate tubercle to the restiform body. On the outer surface of the restiform body it turns outwards so as to bound the lateral recess of the ventricle below, and in some cases it may be seen to become continuous around the extremity of the lateral recess with the inferior medullary velum. A short distance above the calamus scriptorius there is, in the mesial plane, an opening in the epithelial and pial roof of the ventricle, by which the cavity of the ventricle communicates with the subarachnoid space. This opening is termed the foramen of Majendie. There is also an aperture of a similar nature in the epithelial and pial roof at the extremity of each lateral recess. Two choroid plexuses, or highly vascular infoldings of the pia mater, invaginate the lower part of the roof of the fourth ventricle. These are placed one on either