THE FOOT AND ANKLE. 1217 interosseous membrane, while in its lower third it winds on to the front of the tibia, to terminate at a point opposite the ankle-joint, midway between the two malleoli. Incisions to expose the vessel should strike the outer border of the tibialis anticus, which corresponds to a line drawn from a point midway between the external tuberosity of the tiliia and the head of the libula, to the termination of the vessel. When the muscles of the calf are thrown into action, a groove is seen between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, the fleshy fibres of which extend a little Ijelow the middle of the leg. The fleshy flltres of the soleus extend to the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the leg, and project beyond the margins of the gastrocnemius. The narrowest part of the tendo Achillis is situated opposite the bases of the malleoli, and it is here that the tendon is divided in the operation of tenotomy. The short saphenous vein, which lies a little to the outer side of the tendon, gradually reaches the middle of the calf, along wluch it ascends to the middle of the popliteal space. The internal saphenous vein and nerve lie along the inner border of the tibia. The course of the posterior tibial artery is mapped out by drawing a line from the lower angle of the ])0pUteal space, at the level of the lower border of the tubercle of the tibia, to a point midway between the internal malleolus and the tendo Achillis. To expose the vessel in the upper half of the leg, an incision is made parallel to and J in. behind the inner border of the tibia; after retract- ing the inner border of the gastrocnemius and dividing the tibial origin of the soleus, the artery is found lying on the tibialis posticus. In exposing the artery below the soleus, divide two layers of deep fascia and keep the knife directed towards the tibia. The peroneal artery is given off" 3 in. below the head of the fibula; incisions to expose the vessel are made in the direction of a line extending from the posterior border of the head of the fibula to a point midway between the external malleolus and the tendo Achillis. THE FOOT AND ANKLE. The tip of the external malleolus is situated ^ in. lower and | in. further back than that of the internal malleolus. Above the external malleolus is the Peroneus-bruvis ', Peioueal tubercle Greater process of os caleis Peroiieus Ion;.;iis Fic. 820.—Outer Asi'ect of Foot .\.nd Anklk. triangular subcutaneous surface of -the fibula, the apex of which corresponds to the lower end of the extensor-peroneal intermuscular septum. The line of the ankle-joint can be felt on either side of the extensor tendons, and when the foot is extended the anterior part of the superior articular surface of the astragalus forms a visible prominence below the anterior liorder of the lower end of the tibia. The small posterior surface of tlie astragalus is felt lielnw anil liehind 77