78^ THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. very short trunk, of considerable size, which passes forwards, pierces the costo- eoracoid membrane, and terminates beneath the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major by dividing into four terminal branches—clavicular, pectoral, humeral, and acromial. (a) The clavicular branch (ramus clavi&ularis) is a long slender artery which runs upwai'ds and inwards to the steruo-clavicular joint, anastomosing with tlie superior tlioracic, with branches of the suprascapular, and with the first perforating branch of the internal mammaiy artery. It supphes the adjacent muscles and the sterno - ckxvicular articulation. '{b) The pectoral (ramus pectoralis), or tlioracic, is a large branch which descends between the two pectoral muscles, to both of which it gives branches, and anastomoses with the intercostal and long thoracic arteries. (c) The humeral branch (ramus deltoideus) runs outwards to the groove between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, in which it descends in company with the cephalic vein to the insertion of the deltoid. It anastomoses with the acromial branch and with the anterior circumflex arterj', and it gives branches to the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles and to the skin. {d) The acromial branch (ramus acromiabs) runs uinvards and outwards across the tip of the coracoid process to the acromion, where it anastomoses with the last-described branch, with the acromial branches of the suprascapular, and with the posterior circiunflex arteries. It gives lirauches to the deltoid. (3) The long thoracic (a. thoracalis lateraUs) arises from the second part of the axillary, and descends along the lower l)order of the pectoralis minor to anastomose with the intercostal and subscapular arteries, and with the pectoral branch of the acromio - thoracic. It supplies the adjacent muscles,, and sends branches to the outer part of the luiunniary gland, hence it is not infrequently called the external mammary artery. (4) The alar thoracic is only occasionally present as a distinct branch, but it is frequently represented by a number of small irregular branches, which may either arise from the axillary or from the thoracic and subscapular branches. It is distributed to the glands and areolar tissue in the axilla. (5) The subscapular artery (a. subscapularis) is the largest branch of the axillary artery. It arises from the third part of the artery, opposite the lower border of the subscapularis, along which it descends to the lower angle of the scapula and to the inner wall of the axillary space. It is accompanied by the second or long subscapular nerve ; it supplies the adjacent muscles, and it anasto- moses with the posterior scapular, the suprascapular, the long thoracic, and the lateral branches of the intercostal arteries, and gives off one named branch, the dorsalis scapulie. The dorsalis scapulae artery (a. circumflexa scapuhe) is frequently larger than the continuation of the subscapular artery. It arises about one and a half inches (37 mm.) from the commencement of the subscapular trunk, and passes backwards into the triangular space between the subscapularis above, the teres major below, and tlie long- head of the triceps externally. Turning round, and usually grooving the axillary border of the scapula, under cover of the teres minor, it enters tlie infraspinous fossa, where it breaks up into branches which anastomose with branches of the posterior scapular and sujjrascapular arteries. Whilst it is in the triangular space the dorsal artery gives off an. infrascajmlar branch which passes into the subscapular fossa beneath the subscapularis, and terminates by anastomosing with the branches of the posterior and suprascapular arteries. It also gives ofi" in the same situation a descending branch, which runs down- wards to the lower angle of the scapula between the teres major and minor muscles, and small branches are given to the deltoid and scapular head of tricejjs. (6) The posterior circumflex (a. circumflexa humeri posterior) arises from the third part of the axillary artery and passes backwards, acconipanied by the circumflex nerve, through the quadrilateral space, which is bounded by the teres minor above, the teres major below, the long head of the triceps internally, and the humerus externally. It turns round the surgical neck of the humerus under cover of the deltoid muscle, and terminates in numerous branches which