THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 970 flattened from before backwards. One is placed anteriorly, the other posteriorly, and both are usually recurved in tlieir lower portions (Fig. 650). As in the corre- Ceiitral incisor Lateral incisor Fig. 653.—The Lower Permanent Teeth, viewed from above. spouding teeth of the upper jaw, the roots of the lower wisdom teetli are often more or less united into a single mass. Tlie cliief chajacters of the niipei- and lower molars may be summarised tlnis :— Molars. 1st Upper. 2iid Upper. 3rd Upper. Upper Cus]is . 4 3-or 4 3 or 4 Koots . . 3 3 3 (or 1) i 1st Lower. ! 2nd Lower. 3rd Lower. Lower- Cusps . 4 or 5 4 or 5 Roots . 2 2 (or 1) The molars (liiiiiiiisli in size from hefore backwards. This remark applies particularly to the wisdom teeth, which are extremely variable in form and position among civilised races. The long axis of the upper molars has a general direction downwards and outwards ; whilst that of the lower molars, which the f<n-mer partly overlap, slopes upwards and inwards, with the result that the outer cusps of the lower molars lie in the groove separating the inner from the outer cusps of the upper teeth (Fig. 637, ]>. 946). As a further result of this overlapping, the outer edge of the crown is sharp and the inner edge rounded in the upper molars ; whilst the inner edge is sharp and the outer edge lounded in the lower set. The cause of this is obvious. The (juter margins of the iip])er molars oveilap their fellows on the buccal side, whilst the inner margins of the lower molars overlap their fellows on the lingual side ; these margins, therefore, are subject to comparatively little attrition, and consequently remain sharp. The other margin of each tooth, on the other hand, strikes against the groove on the crown of the opjiosing tooth, and consequently becomes worn and round. The fissures which separate the cusps on the grinding surfaces of the molar teeth are generally continued as faint grooves on the labial and lingual surfaces. Upper Molars.—The crowns, as already stated, are ihomboidal in shape, and when viewing their grinding surfaces, as in Fig. 652, if the ])lanes of separation between them be prolonged, they would strike the middle line near the back part of the hard palate ; in other words, their