OSTEOLOGY. 230 Styloid process Facet for tibia_ Head- Neck- Bxtensor loiigiis (ligitorum Interosseous ridge- Extensor proprhis lialliK'is Tibialis posticus XUTRI ent foramen" internal to the ridge which springs inferiorly from the malleolar subcutaneous triangular surface, notwithstanding the differences in width of the surface which separates the lines, or their occasional coalescence above. The position of the interosseous ridge enables us at once to separate the flexor aspect of the bone from its extensor surface, using these terms in relation to the movements of the ankle. The use of these terms is not, strictly speaking, correct, and they are liere used in a physiological and not in a morphological sense. The anterior surface of the leg is the true extensor surface and is comparable with the posterior surface of the forearm, the change in position having heen brought about developmentally liy differ- ence in tlie rotation of the limbs. Flexion of the ankle, so called, is in reality an extensor movement, and corresponds to extension at the wrist; see Humphry, Journ. Anat. and Physiol., vol. xxviii. p. 15. In addition, there is the peroneal surface, which cor- responds to the outer side of the shaft. Starting then at the interosseous ridge, and passing forwards round the outer side of the shaft, the flexor surface is the first met with ; this is bounded externally by the anterior border, and, as has been said, may be either of considerable width or almost linear. From this arises the extensor com- munis digitorum, together with the peroneus tertius and the extensor proprius hallucis muscles, which, though extensors of the toes, are also flexors of the ankle. The anterior border serves for the attachment of the intermuscular septum, which separates the foregoing- group of muscles from that which lies along the outer side of the shaft, viz. the peroneus longus and brevis muscles. The surface from which these arise is limited behind by the posterior border, which is usually sharp and well defined below, where it is continuous with the bone im- mediately above the pit on the inner surface of the lower extremity, whilst it tends to })e less distinct and more rounded above where it runs into the base of the styloid process. In its upper third or fourth this border is often rough and tubercular where it serves for the origin of the soleus. The outer or peroneal surface is somewhat twisted, being directed rather forwards above, but tend- ing to turn backwards below where it becomes continuous with the groove which courses along the back of the external malleolus and which lodges the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis muscles. The remainder of the shaft, included between the posterior border behind and the interosseous ridge in front and internally, is the extensor surface, for here arise the several muscles whose action in part is to extend the ankle. This surface is cut up by a curved ridge often the most prominent and outstanding on the bone, and hence frequently mistaken I)y the student for the interosseous ridge; it serves to define the area for the origin of the tibialis posticus, and arises below from the posterior liorder of the interosseous ridge at the junction of the middle and inferior thirds of the shaft, curves a little backwards, and passing upwards and obliquely forwards again joins the inter- osseous ridge once more in the region of the neck. This internal border (crista medialis); and the surface so 1 surface, The ridge itself serves for the attachment Interosseous^ RIDOE Flexor longus hallucis Peroneus tertius- ■ '1 Rough .surface FOR inter-_ OSSEOUS LKiAMENT Facet for astragalus^- < si S o .. . . -j; o c- external- malleolus Fig. 171.—Right Fibula as SEEN KliOM THE INNER SiDE. is oftentimes called the inapped off, the interna