1229 THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. hepatic flexure of the colon; the upper part lies deeply in the hypochondriuni, and is felt by thrusting the hand upwards and backwards between the liver and the hepatic flexure of the colon. Between this part of the kidney and the renal sur- face of the liver is a deep recess which receives its serous covering from peri- toneum continued upwards from the upper layer of the transverse mesocolon. Overlapping the hilus and the lower part of the inner border is the descending part of the duodenum, which is crossed by the transverse colon. The lower half of the left kidney, covered by peritoneum continued downwards from the lower layer of the transverse mesocolon, is easily felt in the hollow ])etween the vertebral column and the upper part of the descending colon. It is overlapped by coils of small intestine, and passing transversely outwards in front of it is the left colic artery and its branches. Crossing the left kidney, a little above its middle, is the Ijody of the pancreas, together with the splenic vessels. To reach the part of the kidney which lies above the pancreas, an opening should- be made through the gastro-colic omentum and the hand passed upwards behind the stomach into the lesser sac of the peritoneum. AppHed to the upper half or more of the outer border of the kidney is the renal surface of the spleen. The posterior relations of the kidneys have been referred to when dealing with the back. Outside the true capsule of the kidney is the adipose capsule, which is a specialised thickening of the extra-peritoneal fat. It is in this fat that a peri- nephritic abscess develops, the pus passing backwards into the loin, downwards towards the ihac fossa, or forwards into the extra-peritoneal fat of the anterior abdominal wall. The ureters lie behind the peritoneum covering the psoas muscles; they descend almost vertically in the umbilical region in. from the nJesial plane. At the level of the intertubercular plane they lie in front of the termination of the common iliac arteries, and then pass down into the true pelvis in front of the internal iliac arteries. Pancreas.—The head of the ^pancreas occupies the curve of the duodenum, and lies in the lowest part of the right half of the epigastric region, on a level with the second lumbar vertebra. The neck, which crosses the mesial plane opposite the disc between the first and second lumbar vertebr<e, lies in the transpylorie plane, while the body lies immediately aljove that plane. The tail lies in the left hypo- chondriac region. The relations of the pancreas to the transverse mesocolon and to the neighbouring viscera have already been sufficiently referred to. A j)ancreatic cyst gives rise to a tumefaction of the abdomen either in the epigastric or in the umbilical region, depending on whether it pushes the gastro- hepatic omentum before it and develops between the liver and stomach, or whether it extends forwards below the stomach. Iii severe contusions of the abdomen the pancreas may be ruptured against the vertebral column. Vessels of the Abdomen.—The commencement of the abdominal aorta and the coeliac axis is situated two fingers' breadth above the transpylorie plane. The superior mesenteric artery arises a finger's Itreadth above the transpylorie plane, the renal arteries a finger's breadth below it. Tlie inferior mesenteric artery arises mid- way between the transpylorie and the intertubercular plane—that is to say, about 1 in. above the level of the umbilicus. The abdominal aorta bifurcates in, or a Little to the left of, the mesial plane, on a level with the highest part of the iliac crest, and about | in. below the level of the umbilicus. The inferior vena cava lies immediately to the right of the aorta; its most important surgical relation is tlie right ureter, which lies close to its outer side. The common and external iliac arteries may be mapped out by drawing a hne, curved slightly outwards, from a point opposite the bifurcation of the aorta to a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the pubic symphysis: the upper third of this line corresponds to the common iliac, the lower two-thirds to the external iliac. The common iliac veins lie mainly to the right of the corre- sponding arteries, the left vein, however, crossing behind the riglit artery to join its fellow to form the inferior vena cava. The relation of the veins and of the ureters must be borne in mind in ligaturing the common iliac arteries.