107 THE OCCIPITAL BONE. serve for the attachment of the complexus, obliquus superior, and rectus capitis posticus major and minor muscles. The internal surface of the squama, concave from side to side and from above downwards, is subdivided into four fossae by a crucial arrangement of ridges and grooves. The upper pair of fosste lodge the occipital lobes of the cerebrum, the lower pair the lobes of the cerebellum. Near the centre of this aspect of the bone is the internal occipital protuberance (protuberantia occipitalis interna), an irregular elevation, the sides of which are variously channelled according to the disposition of the grooves. Leading from this to the hinder margin of the foramen magnum is a sharp and well-deiined ridge, the internal occipital crest (crista occipitalis interna), which serves for the attachment of the falx cerebelli, a process of dura mater which separates the two cerebellar hemispheres. Passing upwards from the For superior longitudinal sinus and falx cerebri Superior angle Fig. 83.—Occipital Bone (Inner Surface). internal occipital protuberance there is usually a well-marked ridge, to one or other side of which, more frequently the right (with the bone in the normal position and viewed from behind), there is a well-defined groove, the sulcus sagittalis, the outer lip of which is generally less prominent. Placed in this groove is the superior longitudinal venous sinus, and attached to the lips is the falx cerebri. At right angles to the foregoing, and at the level of the internal occipital protuberance, with which they become confluent, are two transverse grooves, the sulci transversi. These grooves, which have more or less prominent edges, lie between the upper and lower pairs of fossae, and serve for the attachment of the tentorium cerebelli as well as the lodgment of the lateral blood-sinuses. Commonly the right lateral groove is confluent with the groo^-e to the right side of, the median ridge, but exceptions to this rule are not infrequent. The angle formed by the union of the venous sinuses lodged in these grooves constitutes the torcular Herophili, which may accordingly