215 THE 1>ELVIS. The inlet (apertura pelvis superior) of the pelvis is bounded in front by the symphysis pubis, with the body of the pubis on either side; laterally by the ilio- pectineal lines; and behind by the sacral prominence. The circumference of this aperture is often called the brim of the pelvis ; in the male its shape is cordate, in the female more oval. The antero-posterior or conjugate diameter is measured from the sacro-vertebral angle to the symphysis pubis; the oUique diameter from the sacro-iliac joint of one side to the ilio-pectineal eminence of the other; whilst the transverse diameter is taken across the point of greatest width. The outlet (apertura pelvis inferior) is bounded anteriorly by the pubic arch (arcus pubis), formed in front and above by the bodies of the pubis, with the symphysis between them, and the inferior pubic rami below and on either side. These latter are continuous with the ischial rami which pass backwards and outwards to the ischial tuberosities, which are placed on either side of this aperture. In the middle line and behind, the tip of the coccyx projects forward, and in the recent condition the interval between this and the ischial tuberosities is bridged across by the great sacro-sciatic ligament, the inferior edge of which necessarily assists in determining the shape of the outlet. As the anterior wall of the cavity, formed by the symphysis pubis, measures from 1^ to 2 inches, whilst the posterior wall, made up of the sacrum and coccyx, is from 5 to 6 inches in length, it follows that the planes of the inlet and outlet are not parallel, but placed at an angle to each other. The term axis of the pelvis is given to lines drawn at right angles to the centre of these planes. Thus, with the pelvis in its true position, when the figure is erect, the axis of the inlet corresponds to a line drawn downwards and backwards from the umbilicus towards the tip of the coccyx below, whilst the axis of the outlet is directed downwards and slightly backwards, or downwards and a little forwards, varying according to the length of the coccyx. Between these two planes the axis of the cavity, as it passes through planes of varying degrees of obliquity, describes a curve repeating pretty closely the curve of the sacrum and coccyx. Position of the Pelvis.—The position of the pelvis in the living when the figure is erect may be approximately represented by placing it so that the anterior superior iliac spines and the symphysis pubis lie in the same vertical plane. Under these conditions the plane of the inlet is oblique, and forms with a horizontal line an angle of from 50° to 60°. The position of the pelvis depends upon the length of the ilio-femoral ligaments of the hip-joint, being more oblique when these are short, as usually happens in women in whom the anterior superior iliac spines tend to lie in a plane slightly in advance of that occupied by the symphysis pubis. In cases where the ilio-femoral ligament is long, a greater amount of extension of th^ hip-joint is permitted, and this leads to a lessening of the obliquity of the pelvis. This condition, which is more typical of men, results in the anterior superior iliac spines lying in a plane slightly posterior to the plane of the sym- physis, whilst the angle formed by the plane of the inlet and the horizontal is thereby reduced. Bearing in mind the oblique position of the pelvis, it will now be seen that the front of the sacrum is directed downwards more than forwards, and that the sacral pro- montory is raised as much as from 3^ to 4 inches above the upper border of the symphysis pubis, lying higher than the level of a line connecting the two anterior superior iliac spines. From the manner in which the sacrum articulates with the ilia, it will be noticed that the weight of the trunk is transmitted downwards through the thickest and strongest part of the bone (see Architecture) to the upper part of the acetabula, where these rest on the heads of the femora. Sexual Differences.—The female pelvis is lighter in its construction than that of the male ; its surfaces are smoother, and the indications of muscular attachments less marked. Its height is less and the splay of its walls not so pronounced as in the male, so that the female pelvis has been well described as a short segment of a long cone as con- trasted with the male pelvis, which is a long segment of a short cone. The cavity of the true pelvis in the female is more roomy, and the ischial spines not so much inturned. Tlie pubic arch is wide and rounded, and will usually admit a right-angled-set square being placed within, so that the summit touches the under surface of the symphysis pubis, whilst the sides lie in contact with the ischial rami. In the male the arch is narrow and angular, forming an angle of from 65° to 70°. The sacro-sciatic notch in the female is wide and shallow. The distance from the posterior edge of the body of the ischium to the