738 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. regarded as the commencement of lymphatics, definite lymphatic vessels are limited to the outer coat. Nerves.-—Arteries and veins are well supplied with both medullated and non- medullated nerve fibres. The fibres form dense plexuses on the outer surfaces of the vessels, from which filaments pass to the middle coat to be distributed almost entirely to its miiscular fibres. Divisions of the blood-vascular system.—Blood-vessels convey blood to or from the tissues of the body generally, or to and from the lungs. The former con- stitute the systemic vessels or general system ; the latter form the pulmonary system. These two systems are connected together by the heart. The venous trunks passing to the liver form a subsidiary part of the general systemic group of vessels, which is known as the portal system. THE HEART. The heart (cor) is a hollow muscular organ, and is enclosed in a fibro-serous sac known as the pericardium. It receives blood from the veins, and propels it into and along the arteries. The cavity of the fully-developed heart is completely separated into right and left halves by an obhquely-placed longitudinal septum, and each half is divided into an upper receiving chamber, the auricle, and a lower ejecting chamber, the ventricle. The separation of the auricle from the ventricle, however, is not complete. Externally a comparatively shallow constriction, running transversely to the long ax,is of the organ, indicates the distinction between the auricles and ventricles; internally a wide aperture is left between the auricle and ventricle of each side. Each auriculo-ventricular aperture is provided with a valve which allows the free passage of blood from the auricle to the ventricle, l)ut effectually prevents its return. It lias already been pointed out that the delicate walls of the blood capillaries allow of the free passage outwards of nutritive plasma from the blood. It passes into spaces, or intercellular channels, in which the tissue elements lie; thus the latter are directly bathed in blood plasma. The intercellular sjiaces form the commencement of the lymjjh-vascular system. They communicate together, and open into lymph-vessels which carry the used j)lasma back to the blood-vascular system, but in addition they also convey new nutritive material, the product of digestive pro- cesses, from the alimentary canal. Lymph-vessels, in other words, convey material from the tissues. Blood-vessels convey material both to and from the tissues. The removal of waste products from the blood is provided for by special organs, some of which are simply interposed in the course of the general circulation—e.rj. the liver, the kidneys, and the skin. The lungs, however, wliere the impure or venous blood receives its main supply of oxygen and gives up most of its carbonic oxide, etc., do not lie in the course of the general or systemic circulation, and a secondary or pulmonary circulation is established, by which venous blood is conveyed from the heart to the lungs by tlie pulmonary artery and its branches, and, after passing through the pulmonary capillaries, is returned again to the heart, as pure arterial blood, by the pulmonary veins. The heart, anatomically a single organ, is correspondingly modified, and, as described above, it is div ided into a left part, the systemic heart, and a right part, the pulmonary heart. It receives on its right side the blood from the systemic veins, which it ejects into the jjulmonary artery; whilst on its left side it receives blood from the pulmonary veins, and ejects it into the main systemic artery—the aorta. The shape of the heart is that of an irregular and somewhat flattened cone ; and a base, an apex, two surfaces (inferior and antero-superior), and two borders (right and left) are distinguishable. An oblique groove—the auriculo-ventricular groove (sulcus coronarius)—runs transversely to the long axis of the organ, and separates the upper auricular portion from the lower ventricular part. The separation of tlie auricular portion into right and left chambers is only marked externally at the base of the heart, where an indistinct interauricular groove exists. The division of the lower part into right and left ventricles is more definitely marked on the surface by anterior and inferior interventricular sulci (sulci longitudinales). Enclosed in the pericardium, which accordingly intervenes between it and the