476 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. THE DEEP CONNEXIONS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES ATTACHED TO THE MEDULLA AND PONS. There are twelve pairs of cranial nerves, of which the lower eight are attached to the medulla and pons Varolii. From above downwards these are named the fifth or trigeminal, the sixth or abducent, the seventh or facial, the eighth or auditory, the ninth or glosso-pharyngeal, the tenth or vagus, the eleventh or spinal accessory, and the twelfth or hypoglossal. The hypoglossal, the spinal accessory, the greater part of the facial, the abdixcent, and the motor root of the trigeminal are efferent nerves; the auditory, the pars intermedia of the facial, and the sensory root of the trigeminal are purely afferent nerves; whilst the vagus and glosso- pharyngeal are composed of both efferent and afferent fibres. In all cases, afferent filjres arise from ganglionic cells placed outside the brain and penetrate the brain- stem, to end in connexion with the cells of certain nuclei of termination. Efferent fibres, on the other hand, take origin within the brain as the axons of cells which are grouped together in certain places in the form of nuclei of origin. Nuclei of Origin, or Motor Nuclei.—In the spinal cord there is a continuous nucleus of origin or column of cells running within the whole length of the anterior horn of gray matter, from which the series of efferent anterior nerve- roots take origin. In the medulla and pons the nuclei of origin, or, in other words, the motor nuclei, become discontinuous, and are represented by certain more or less isolated clumps of compact gray matter, in which are placed the clusters of cells from which the fibres of the efferent nerves arise. At the decus- sation of the pyramids, the anterior horn of gray matter of the cord is broken up by the intercrossing bundles into a detached head and a basal part which remains in relation with the ventro-lateral aspect of the central canal. Certain of the efferent or motor nuclei of the medulla and pons lie in the line of the basal portion of the ventral horn of gray matter of the spinal cord, and thus close to the mesial plane. These are termed mesial nuclei of origin, and are met with at different levels in the brain-stem. This group comprises the hypoglossal nucleus, the abducent nucleus (and, in the mesencephalon, the trochlear nucleus and the oculo-motor nucleus). Other motor nuclei of origin are present in the form of isolated chmips of gray matter, which lie at different levels in the medulla and pons in the line of the detached head of the anterior horn of gray matter. They are the medullary nucleus of the spinal accessory, the nucleus ambiguus of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal, the facial nucleus, and the nucleus of the motor root of the trigeminal nerve. From their position in the tegmental substance of the medulla and pons, they constitute a group to which the name of lateral motor nuclei is applied. The different nuclei of origin of the efferent fibres which belong to the various cranial nerves, both mesial and lateral, are connected with the motor area of the cerebral cortex by fibres from the pyramidal tract, which enter the nuclei and end in connexion with their cells. Nuclei of Termination.—In the brain the nuclei of termination are likewise discontinuous, and are represented by more or less isolated clusters of cells. Unlike the motor nuclei, however, these nuclei show no regular or definite position within the medulla and pons. Some are found in the gray matter which surrounds the central canal, and, in its continuation upwards, as the gray matter in the floor of the fourth ventricle ; others are placed in the tegmental substance ; whilst two actually lie on the surface of the brain-stem, viz. the lateral and ventral nuclei of the cochlear or outer division of the auditory nerve. The axons of the cells of the nuclei of termination enter the reticular formation of the tegmental substance as arcuate fibres, and, crossing the mesial plane, are carried upwards in the tegmental substance of the opposite side to establish direct or indirect connexions with the cerebral cortex. Hypoglossal Nerve (nervus hypoglossus).—The nucleus of origin of the hypo- glossal nerve, the motor nerve of the tongue, lies in the substance of the medulla oblongata. It is composed of several groups of large multipolar cells, which closely resemble the cells in the ventral horn of gray matter in the spinal cord, and is