MIDDLE EAK OE TYMPANIC CAVITY. 707 near the circumference, but scattered and few in number near the centre of the membrane (Fig. 516). Both radial and circular fibres are absent from the pars fiaccida, which is constituted merely by the apposition of the cutaneous and mucous layers. Gruber pointed out that, in addition to the radial and circular fibres, there exists a series of dendritic or branched fibres, which are best developed in the posterior part of tlie membrane. The internal layer (stratum mucosum) is continuous with the general mucous lining of the tympanum. It is thicker over the upper part of the membrane than near its centre and is covered by pavement epithelium. Otoscopic Examination of the Tympanic Membrane (Fig. 517).—The lueinbiane, in the hving, is of a " pearl-gray " colour, but may present a reddish or yellowish tinge, depending upon the condition of its mucous lining and on the condition of the cutaneous lining of the meatus ; the posterior segment is usually clearer than the anterior. At the antero- superior part, close to its periphery, a whitish point appears as if pro- jecting towards the meatus; this is the short process of the malleus. Passing downwards and backwards from this point to the umbo is a ridge caused by the handle of the malleus, the lower extremity of which appears rounded. Two ridges, corresponding with the tympano - malleolar folds, extend from the short process of the malleus, one forwards and upwards, the other backwards and upwards. Behind, and near the lower ex- tremity of the handle of the malleus, is a reddish or yellowish spot, due to the promontory of the inner tymjjanic wall shining through. If the membrane be very transparent, the long process of the incus may be visible behind the upper part. of the handle of the malleus, and reaching downwards as far as its middle. From the lower end of the handle of the malleus, the " cone of light" or " luminous triangle " extends downwards and forwards, its apex being directed towards the handle ; this triangle varies in size in different jjeople. A line prolonging the handle down- wards divides the membrane into two parts, while another, drawn at right angles to this through the umbo, will subdivide it into four quadrants, viz. postero-superior, postero-inferior, antero- superior, and antero-inferior ; this subdivision is useful in enabling the otologist to localise and describe accurately the seat of lesions in the membrane. Vascular and Nervous Supply of the Membrana Tympani.—Tlie arteries are arranged in two sets, one on the cutaneous and another on the mucous surface. These anastomose by means of small branches which pierce the membrane, especially near its periphery. The first set is chiefly derived from the deep auricular branch of the internal maxillaiy, whilst those on the mucous surface are small and proceed from the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, and from the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular. The veins from the cutaneous surface open into the external jugular; those from the inner surface partly, into the venous plexus on the Eustachian tube, and partly into the lateral sinus and veins of the dura mater. The outer surface of the membrane receives its nerves from the auriculo-temporal branch of the fifth and from the auricular branch of the vagus; the inner surface, from the nerve of Jacobson (tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal). The lymphatics, like the blood-vessels, are arranged in two sets, cutaneous and mucous, which, however, communicate freely with each other. Kessel has described as lymphatics the spaces between the branches of Gruber's dendritic fibres. The inner wall of the tympanic cavity (paries labyrinthica) is formed by the outer surface of the internal ear or labyrinth (Fig. 515). It presents—(1) a rounded eminence, the promontory (promontorium), which is caused by the first coil of the cochlea, and is grooved for the tympanic plexus of nerves. (2) An oval or some- what reniform opening, the fenestra ovalis seu vestibuli. This is situated above and behind the promontory, and its long axis is directed from before backwards. It measures 3 mm. in length and l^- mm. from above downwards, and lies at the bottom of a funnel-shaped recess, the fossula fenestrse vestibuli. In the macerated bone it leads into the vestibule of the labyrinth, but is closed in the recent state by the foot of the stapes, surrounded by its ligamentum annulare. (3) An elevation, the prominentia canalis facialis. Situated above the fenestra ovalis, in the recessus epitympanicus, this indicates the position of the aqueduct of Fallopius, which con- tains the facial nerve and is continued backwards and downwards behind the Membrana flaccida Anterior tyinpano- nialleolar folil Handle of maUeiii- Autero-superior quadrant Antero-infei'ior quadrant Posterior tympano- lualleolar fold Short process of malleus Long pi'oeess of incus Postero-superior quadrant Postero-inferior quadrant Cone of lialit Fig. 517.- -Left Tympanic Membrane (as viewed from the external auditory meatus), x 3.