991 THE CESOrHAGUS. uncovered. It is generally described as lying against the oesophageal groove and the left lateral ligament of the li-\'er in front, but it never actually conies in contact witli the latter of these structures, which is attached to the ujjper surface of the left lobe of the liver by one edge, and to the diaphragm, over an inch in front of the tt!S0i)hagus, by the other. As regards the former, the oesophageal groove of the liver is generally occujiied by the prominent right margin of the oesophageal orifice of the diaphragm, and occasionally by the oesophagus as well. Possibly this margin is so strongly developed and so prominent in order that it may bear the pressure of the liver olf the gullet, \\'hich otherwise would be interfered with in its dilatation during the passage of food. When the stomach is fully distended the abdominal part of the oesophagus almost disappears, Ijeing absorbed into the stomach in its distension. Indeed, it is possible that it is in most cases an artificial production, due to the traction on the empty stomach (generally necessary to demonstrate it) pulling a part of the oesophagus from its lax diaphragmatic moorings do^^•n into the al)doniinal cavity. Variations.—The chief anomalies found in the oesophagus are : (1) Annular or tubular con- strictions ; (2) diverticula, of which the most interesting—known as " pressure pouches"—are usually situated on the posterior wall close to its junction with the jiharynx, and these some- times require surgical interference; (3) doubling in jiart of its course ; and (4) communications between the trachea and ocsojihagus. Structure of the CEsophagus (Fig- 669).—The oesophageal wall is composed of thre(! proper coats—(1) muscular, (2) sul)mucous, and (.3) raucous. In addition, it is sur- rounded by an outer covering of areolar tissue (tunica adventitia), by which it is loosely connected to the various structures related to it in its course. This loose covering permits of its free movement and of its increase in size, or of its diminution, during the act of swallowing. The muscular coat (tunica muscularis) is composed of two layers—an outer of longitudinal, and an inner of circular fibres. The longitudinal layer is highly developed, and, unlike the condition usually found in the digestive tube, it is as stout as, or in jJ^aces stouter than, the circular layer. Its fibres form along the greater length of the tube an even covering out- side the circular layer, and below they are continued into the longitudinal fibres of the stomach. Above, near the upper end of the oesophagus, the longitudinal fibres of each side, separating at the back, pass round towards the anterior aspect, and form two longitudinal bands (Fig. 667), which run uj) on the front of the tube, and are attached by a tendinous band to the upper part of the back of the cricoid cartilage (Fig. 668). The circular muscular fibres, though not forming such a thick layer as the longitudinal fibres, are never- theless well developed. Below they are continued into both the circular and oblique fibres of the stomach. Above they pass into the lower fibres of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The muscular fibres are entirely of the striated variety at the upper end of the cesophagus. Soon unstriped fibres begin to appear, increasing in number as we descend. In the lower half or two-thirds, only unstriped muscle is found. The longitudinal fibres for about the upper fifth of the tube are entirely striped ; in the second fifth striped and unstriped are mixed ; whilst in the lower three-fifths unstriped fibi'es alone are present. The circular fibres are entirely striated for the first inch; after this unstriped fibres appear; and in the lower two-thirds, only unstriped muscles are found (D. J. Coffey). The longitudinal filDres are often joined by slips of inistriped muscle, or elastic fibres, which spring from various sources, including the left pleura (constant, Cunningham), the bronchi, back of trachea, pericardium, aorta, etc. These slips assist in fixing the oesophagus to the surrounding structures in its passage through the thorax, and have been aptly compared to the tendrils of a climbing plant (Treitz). The submucous coat, composed of areolar tissue, is of very consideralile thickness, in order to allow of the expansion of the tube during swallowing. It connects the mucous Longitudinal libres diver"inir Tracliea Pig. 667. — Dissection to show the arrangement of the muscular fibres on the back of the oesophagus and pharynx. Traced upwards, the lon- gitudinal muscular fibres of the cesophagus are seen to separate behind ; passing round to the sides, they form two longitudinal bands which meet in front above, and are united to the cricoid cartilage, as shown in the next figure.