774 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. posterior spinal arteries; they supply the bodies of the vertebrffi and the intervertebral discs, and they anastomose with corresponding arteries above and below. From the third part.—(1) Muscular branches to the sub-occipital nuiscles. (2) Anastomotic branches which unite with the princeps cervicis branch of the occi- pital and with the profunda cervicis artery. From the fourth part,—(1) Meningeal (rami meningei).—One or two small branches given off before the vertebral artery pierces the dura mater. They ascend into the pos- terior fossa of the skull, where they anastomose with meningeal branches of the occipital and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and occasionally with branches of the middle meningeal artery. (2) Posterior Spinal (a. spinalis posterior).—The posterior spinal branch springs from the vertebral directly after it has pierced the dura mater. It runs downwards upon the Anterior communicating artery Olfactory tract Anterior cerebral artery Optic cliiasina InfunilibnluiM Srd cranial nerve 4th cranial nerve Sth cranial nerve i)th cranial nerve 10th cranial nerve lltli cranial nerve- Middle -cerebral artery Internal -<;arotid arteiy Anterior chorioidal artery Posterior com- municating artery Posterior cerebral artery Superior cere- bellar artery Transverse pontine arteries Basilar artery Anterior . inferior cere- bellar artery Posterior inferior cerebellar artery Vertebral artery 12th cranial nerv^ Ailterior spinal artery Fig. 559.—The Ahtehies op the Base of the Brain. The Cihcle of Willis. side of the medulla and the spinal cord in front of the posterior nerve roots. It is a slender artery, which is continued to the lower jjart of the cord by means of reinforce- ments from the spinal branches of the vertebral and intercostal arteries. It gives off branches to the pia mater, which form more or less regular anastomoses on the inner sides of the posterior nerve roots, and it terminates below by joining the anterior spinal artery. (3) The anterior spinal branch (a. spinalis anterior) arises near the termination of the vertebral. It runs obliquely downwards and inwards, in front of the medulla, and unites with its fellow of the o])posite side to form a single anterior spinal artery, which descends in front of the anterior fissure of the spinal cord, and is continued as a fine vessel along the filum terminale. The anterior spinal artery is reinforced as it descends by anastomos-