BEANCHES OF THE INTEKNAL CAKOTID AKTERY. 771 (d) The lachrymal artery (a. lacriinalis), arises from the ophthalmic on the outer side of the optic nerve. It runs forwards along the upper border of the external rectus to the upper and outer angle of the orbit, and in its course gives off branches to the lachrymal gland, muscular branches to the external and superior recti, palpebral branches to the upper eyelid and the upper and outer part of the forehead, temporal and malar branches, which accompany the temporal and malar branches of the temporo-malar nerve, to the face and the temporal fossa respectively ; anterior ciliary branches (aa. ciliares anteriores), which perforate the sclera behind the corneo- scleral junction and anastomose with the posterior ciliary arteries; and a recurrent meningeal brancli, which passes backwards through the outer part of the sphenoidal fissure to anastomose in the middle fossa of the skull with the middle meningeal artery. (e) Muscular.—These branches are usually arranged in two sets, outer and inner. The former supply the upper and outer, and the latter the lower and inner orbital muscles. They anastomose with muscular branches from the lachrymal and the supra-orbital vessels, and they give off anterior ciliary branches. (/) Tlie supra-orbital branch (a. sujjra-orbitalis) is given off as the ophthalmic artery crosses above the optic nerve. It passes round the inner borders of the superior rectus and levator palpebrte muscles, and runs forwards between the latter and the j^eriosteum to the supra-orbital notch, accompanying the frontal and supra-orbital nerves. Passing through the notch it reaches the scalp, and, perforating the frontalis muscle, anastomoses with the superficial, temporal, and frontal arteries. ((/) Ethmoidal branches, anterior (a. ethmoidalis anterior) and posterior (a. ethnioidalis posterior), arise from the ophthalmic as it runs forwards along the inner boundary of the orbital Ascending parietal artery Ascending frontal arteries external Parieto-teniporal artery Temporal branches of middle cerebral Fig. 558.—Distribution of Cerebral Arteries on the Outer Surface of the Cerebrum. Anterior cerebral artery is coloured green, the middle cerebral red, and the posterior cerebral orange. cavity. They pass inwards between the superior oblique and the internal rectus. The posterior, which is much the smaller of the two, traverses the posterior ethmoidal canal, and supplies the posterior ethmoidal cells and the posterior and upper part of the outer wall of the nasal cavity. The anterior ethmoidal artery passes through the anterior ethmoidal canal with the nasal nerve, enters the anterior fossa of the skull, and crosses the cribriform plate of the ethmoid to the nasal notch, through which it reaches the nasal cavity, where it descends with the nasal nerve in a groove on the back of the nasal bone, and finally passes between the upper lateral cartilage and the lower border of the nasal bone to the tip of the nose. It supplies branches to the membranes of the brain in the anterior cranial fossa as well as to the anterior ethmoidal cells, the frontal sinus, the anterior and upper jiart of the nasal mucous membrane, and the skin on the dorsum of the nose. {h) Palpebral branches (aa. j^a-lpebrales), upper and lower, are given off near the termination of the ojahthalmic. They are distributed to the upper and lower eyelids, and they anastomose with tlie lachrymal, supra-orbital, and infra-orbital arteries. (t) The nasal terminal branch (a. dorsalis nasi) passes out of the orbit above the internal tarsal ligament. It pierces the palpebral fascia, and terminates on the side of the nose by anastomosing with the angular branch of the facial arterj'. (/c) The frontal terminal branch (a. frontalis) pierces the palpebral fascia at the upper and inner part of the orbit, and ascends, with the supra-trochlear nerve, in the superficial fascia of the anterior and mesial 25art of the scalp, anastomosing with its fellow of the oi:>posite side and with the supra-orbital artery. (6) The posterior communicating artery (a. communicans posterior) rises from the internal carotid near its termination. It runs backwards below the optic tract and in