DEVELOPMENT OF SALIVAKY GLANDS, PALATE, AND TONGUE. 963 2)rominent border is covered only by the mucous membrane of the mouth, here raised up by the gland to form the pUca sublingualis (Fig. 643). The anterior portion of the gland is much deeper and more bulky than the posterior half, and it meets its fellow in the middle line beneatli the frenulum lingure. The posterior extremity grows gradually more slender, and ends near the posterior part of the mylohyoid ridge, where it lies above the deep process of the submaxillary gland. Its ducts, generally known as the ducts of Rivinus (ductus suljlinguales miaores), are numerous and of small size ; they leave the upper part of the gland, and, after a short course, open on a series of papilla3, visil)le to the naked eye, which are placed along the summit of the plica sublingualis. The gland is not enclosed in a distinct capsule, thus ditfering from tlie parotid and submaxil- lary glands ; hut its numerous lobules, which are smaller than those of the glands just mentioned, are held together by fine connecti^'e tissue, loosely, but still in such a manner as to make one more or less consolidated mass out of wliat was, in the embryo, a number of separate glands. As a rule all the ducts open sejmrately on the summit of the plica sublingualis, and apj^ar- ently none of them join Wharton's duct. Frequently some of those from the anterior and more bulky part of the gland are larger than the others, but the presence of a large duct running alongside of Wharton's duct, and opening with or beside it (ductus major Eivini, duct of Bartholin), is very rare, and must be considered as an exceptional condition in man, although normal in the ox, sheej), and goat. The same may also be said of ducts from the suliliugual, which are described as opening into the duct of Wharton. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries are derived from the sublingual branch of the lingual and from the submental branch of the facial. The nerves come from the lingual, the chorda tympani, and the sympathetic, through a Ijranch of the submaxillary ganglion which joins the lingual, and is conveyed by it to the gland. The apical gland of the tongue (Nuhn's) is described with the tongue, p. 956. Development of the Salivary Glands, Palate, and Tongue. The general development of the lips, mouth, palate, and tongue is described on pages 35 to 40, and reference will be made here only to a few special points connected with these parts. Several explanations of the formation of the philtrum or groove on the front of the upper lip have been put forward ; most probably it is produced by the union of the median fronto-nasal process with the two maxillary processes (see p. 38), the floor of the groove being formed by the fronto-nasal process, and the ridges bounding the groove at the sides corresponding to the line of meeting of the fronto-nasal with the maxillary processes. The salivary glands are developed as solid outgrowths of the buccal epithelium, one each for the submaxillary (the first developed) and the parotid, several for the sublingual gland. The outgrowths are at first simple; they subsequently divide, and finally develop alveolar enlargements on their extremities. By a separation of the lining cells, the ducts, and later on (about the 22nd week) the alveoli become hollowed out, and present a lumen as in the adult. The development of the palate is given at page 39 ; but it should be mentioned that, in order to account for the position which the fissure in cleft palate usually occupies, viz. between the central and lateral incisors, the theory has been advanced by Albrecht, that each premaxilla is made up of two separate segments, an inner (or endo-gnathion), containing the central incisor, and an outer (or meso-gnathion), containing the lateral incisor (the rest of the maxilla constituting the exo-gnathion). Between these two segments of the premaxilla (endo- and meso-gnathion) the cleft is said to run, and not between the premaxilla and maxilla as usually held. Tongue.—The tongue is developed in the embryo, not on the floor of the mouth, but in connexion with the anterior wall of the pharynx, and in two parts, which are at first distinct but soon unite. The anterior two-thirds of the organ is formed from the tuberculum impar, a single median elevation, developed on the ventral wall of the pharj^nx, immediately behind the first, or mandibular, visceral arch. Behind the tuberculum impar, at first, lies a prominent elevation—the furcula, from which the epiglottis is formed—the two being separated by a distinct sulcus, the sinus arcuatus (see p. 35). Soon, however, the ventral extremities of the second and third visceral arches, growing downwards, unite across the middle line, and separate the tuberculum from the furcula, thus dividing the middle portion of the sinus arcuatus into an anterior and a posterior part. The ventral ends of the two arches having fused, develop, after a little time, into a prominent semilunar ridge, the rudiment of the posterior third of the tongue. This ridge