669 THE SACEAL PAET OF THE GANGLIATED COED. of the lumbar vessels. It is connected with the thoracic portion of the cord by an attenuated commissural cord, which either pierces or passes behind the diaphragm. It is continuous below with the sacral portion of the cord by a commissure, which passes behind the common iliac aj-tery. It is joined by medul- lated fibres (white rami communi- cantes) from t"he first two lumbar spinal nerves, and it contains as well medullated fibres continued down from the lower part of the thoracic gangliated cord, and derived from the visceral branches (white rami communicantes) of the lower thoracic nerves. This part of the gangliated cord is char- acterised by great irregularity in the number of the ganglia. They are usually four in number, but there are frequently more (up to eight); and in extreme cases fusion may occur to such an extent that the separation of individual ganglia becomes impos- sible. White rami communicantes. — .The first two (or three) lumbar spinal nerves possess visceral branches which form white rami communicantes joining the upper lumbar ganglia or the gangliated cord. These nerves form the lower limit of the thoracic-lumbar visceral branches of the spinal nerves. They comprise vaso-motor fibres (for the genital organs), and motor fibres for the bladder and uterus. Central Communicating Branches.—Gray rami communi- cantes pass from the gangliated cord to the anterior primary divi- sions of the lumbar nerves in an irregular manner. One ramus may divide so as to supply branches to two adjacent spinal nerves; or a spinal nerve may be joined by two to five separate gray rami from the gangliated cord. The gray rami course, along with the white rami, beneath the origin of the psoas magnus muscle, and over the bodies of the vertebrae. Gray rami sometimes pierce the fibres of the muscle. Peripheral Branches of Distribution.—From the lumbar gangliated cord numbers of small branches arise irregularly, and pass inwards to supply the abdominal aorta, reinforcing the aortic plexus (from the solar plexus). Fig. 480.—The Lumbar Portion of the Sympathetic. Gangliated Cord and Lumbar Plexus. T.ll, T.12, L.l, L.2, L.3, L.4, L.5, Anterior primary divisions of spinal nerves, with white and gray rami communicantes. Sy, Sympathetic gangliated cord; Va, Vagus nerve ; G.S, Great splanchnic nerve, joining semilunar ganglion; S.R.C, Supra- renal capsule and plexus ; R.Pl, Renal plexus ; Ao.Pl, Aortic plexus ; S.M, Superior mesenteric plexus ; LM, Inferior mesenteric plexus ; Hy.Pl, Hypogastric plexus ; Q, Nerves to quadratus lumboram ; I.H, Ilio-hypogastric nerve ; I.I, Ilio-ingaiinal nerve ; G.C, Genito-crural nerve ; E.C, External cutaneous nerve ; A.C, Anterior crural nerve; Acc.Obt, Accessory obturator nerve; Obt, Obturator nerve; 4, 5, Lumbo-sacral cord. THE SACEAL PAET OF THE GANGLIATED COED. The sacral part of the gangliated cord, like the cervical and lower lumbar portions of this system-, receives no white rami communicantes from the spinal nerves. The visceral branches {pelvic splanchnic) of the third, and usually, also,