THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1074 The head is jjhacetl oj3])Osite the second and upper ])ai't of the third lumbar vertebivi, wliilst the body runs to the left, about the level of the first lumliar verteljra. It should be added, that very often the lower jwrtion of tlie liead projects some distance below tlie subcostal plaiu', and thus lies in the umbilical region. Ill shape the pancreas, when hardened in situ, is very irregnlar (Eig. 723), its right end lieing flattened and hook-like, wlrilst the rest of the organ is pris- matic and three-sided. It may, perhaps, in general form be best compared to tlie letter J i)laced thus c~, particularly if the stem and hook of the letter be thickened. The gland is divisi))le into a head, a neck, and a body. Tlie head corresponds to the hook of the c~, and runs downwards and to the left along the second and third portions of the duodenum. The stein of the c represents the body of the glaiul, and the narrow part connecting the two is the neck. When removed from the body without previous hardening, tlie pancreas loses its true form, and becomes drawn out into a slender, elongated, tongue-shaped mass, with a wider end turned towards the duodenum, and a narrow end corre- sponding to the tail. Its total hiiKjtli, when fi.xed in situ, is al)out 5 or 6 inches (12-.5 to 15 cm.); after removal, if not previously hardened, it is easily extended to a length of 8 inches (20 cm.). Its weight is usually about 3 ounces (87 grammes). Relations.—The general position and relations of the pancreas may be Ijriefly expressed as follows:—The head (Fig. 723) lies in the concavity of the duodenum, with the vena cava and aorta liehind it; the body crosses the left kidney and suprarenal capsule; and the tail touches the lower part of the spleen. The greater part of the organ lies behind the stomach, which must be detached from the great omentum, and turned upwards, in order to expose it. In describing the detailed relations, each part of the organ will require to be considered separately. The head (caput pancreatis) is the large flattened and somewhat disc-shaped portion of the gland which lies in the concavity of the duodenum, extending along its second and third portions almost as far as the duodeno-jejunal flexure. Above, in its right half, it is continuous with the neck ; whilst to the left of this it is separated from the neck by a deep notch (incisura pancreatis), in which lie the superior mesenteric vessels (Fig. 723). Its ri;/ht and /owe?- borders are moulded on to tlie side of the duodenum, which lies in a groove of the gland substance — the common bile duct being interposed as fai down as the middle of the second portion of the duodenum. The posterior surface of the head is apjilied to the front of the inferior vena cava; it also lies on the renal vessels, and, at its left end, on the aorta as well. Its anterior surface is in contact above and on the right with the beginning of the transverse colon (Fig. 724), without the inter- position of the peritoneum as a rule. Below this it is clothed by peritoneum, and is covered by the small intestine. The superior mesenteric vessels, after passing forward through the pancreatic notch, descend in front of tiiat portion of the liead (processus uncinatus) which runs to the left along the third part of the duodenum. The superior pancreatico-duodenal vessels run downwards, and break up on the front of the head (Fig. 723). The neck (Fig. 723) is a comparatively attenuated portion of the gland which lies in front of the portal vein, and connects the liead to the body. Springing from the upper and right portion of the head, it runs upwards and to the left for about 1 inch (25 mm.), and then passes into the body. The neck is about | inch (18 mm.) in width, and less than \ inch (12'5 mm.) in thickness. In front and to its right lie the first ]iart of the duodenum and the pylorus ; behind and to the left it rests upon the beginning of the jiortal vein, which is formed under cover of its lower border, by the union of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. It has a partial covering of peritoneum on its anterior surface ; and its beginning is generally marked off from the head by the gastro-duodenal artery, with its continuation the sujjerior pancreatico-duodenal, which lies in a groove of the gland substance between the head and neck. The neck, which was first described by Synungton, forms as distinct and definite a division as any other portion of the gland. The body is of a prismatic form, largest where it lies in front of the left kidney, and usually somewhat tapering towards the tail (Fig. 724). Beginning at the terniina-