504 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. has important connexions with the optic tract. The corticipetal tegmental tracts, which enter it from below, will be noticed in connexion with the subthalamic region. Suffice it to say, for the present, that many of these fibres end in the midst of the thalamus in connexion with the thalamic cells, whilst others are apparently carried directly upwards through it to enter the internal capsule ; the latter with- out any break in their continuity, reach the cortex of the cerebrum. In addition to these, enormous numbers of fibres, arising within the thalamus as the axons of its cells, stream out from its outer and under surfaces to form the thalamic radiation. These fibres pass to every part of the cortex ; and although there is no separation of them into distinct groups as they leave the thalamus, it is customary to regard them as constituting a frontal stalk, a parietal stalk, an occipital stalk, and a ventral stalk. The frontal stalk of the thalamic radiation emerges from the anterior part of the lateral surface of the thalamus and passes through the anteri(jr limb of the internal capsule, to reach the cortex of the frontal lobe. Many of these fibres end in the caudate and lenticular nuclei, between which they proceed. The parietal stalk issues from the lateral surface of the thalamus, and, j)assing through the internal capsule (and to some extent, also, through the lenticular niicleus and the external cajisule), gains the cortex of the hinder part of the frontal lobe and of the parietal lobe. The occipital stalk emerges from the outer aspect of the pulvinar and constitutes the so-called optic radiation. These fibres sweep outwards and backwards round the outer side of the j^osterior horn of the lateral ventricle to gain the cortex of the occipital lobe. The ventral stalk streams out from the mider aspect of the anterior part of the thalamus, in front of the sub- thalamic tegmental region and the corpus mamniillare. Its fibres arise in both the mesial and lateral nuclei, and sweep down- wards and outwards to reach the region below the lenticular nucleus. One very distinct band which lies dorsal to the other fibres (ansa lenticularis) enters the lenticular nucleus, whilst the remainder (ansa peduncularis) continue in an outward direction below the lenticular nucleus and gain the cortex of the temporal lobe and of the insula or island of Keil. Flechsig divides the thalamo-cortical fibres of ordinary sensation into three sensory systems. These he has been able to distinguish by studying the order in which they assume their sheaths of myelin in the foetus and infant. Ferrier and Turner, by the degenera- tive method of investigation, corroborate Flechsig's results in a very remarkable manner. They confirm the observation of Flechsig that, while thalamic filn-es are dis- tributed to the several regions of the cere- bral cortex to an almost equal extent, there is one district, viz. the frontal pole, to which the supply is scanty. Another very im- jjortant result has been obtained by these authors. They have estal)lished the fact that many of the thalamic fibres cross the mesial plane in the corjjus callosum, and thus gain the cortex of the opposite cerebral hemisphere. Hamilton's crossed callosal tract thus receives confii'mation. Intimate Structure of the Corpus Geniculatum Externum.—Sections through the external geniculate l^ody reveal the fact that it is composed of a series of alternately placed gray and white curved laminte. This gives it a very characteristic appear- ance. The white laminse are composed of fibres which enter the body from the optic tract and the optic radiation. The connexions of the geniculate bodies will be studied with the optic tract. Subthalamic Tegmental Region.—The tegmental part of the crus cerebri is prolonged upwards and assumes a position below the hinder part of the thalamus. Fig. 374.—Sc'HEM.\. Founded on the observations of Flechsig, and Ferrier and Turner.