THE VASCULAK SYSTEM. 808 lateral false ligament. (</) A pubic branch (ramus pubicvis), wliich ascends on the back of the pubes, and anastomoses witli its fellow of the opposite side and with the pubic branch of the deep epigastric, is given off just before the artery leaves the pelvis. In its upward co^n-se it may pass either on the outer or inner side of the external iliac vein, Avhilst not unfrequently it runs on the inner side of the crural ring. In the latter case t is important in relation to femor,^l hernia; and this importance is emphasised when, as sometimes happens, the obturator artery arises as an enlarged pubic branch of the deep epigastric artery instead of from the internal iliac, (e) Terminal.—The internal terminal branch (ramus anterior) runs forwards, and the external (ramus posterior) backwards round the margin of the obturator foramen. They lie on the obturator membrane, and under cover of the obturator externus. They anastomose together at the lower margin of the foramen, and both give off offsets which anastomose with the internal circumflex artery, and twigs of suppl}' to the adjacent muscles. The external branch also gives an acetabular branch t'o the hip-joint, which passes upwards, through Cms penis . Superficial perineal artery Transveisus perinei musflf Internal pudie artei Inferior hivnior- rlioidal artery CIrus penis Dorsal artery of penis and artery to cor])Us cavernosuni Bnlb of penis t'ompressor urethra' Artery to bulb Superficial perineal artery 'I'ransverse perineal ai'tery Internal pudic artery Inferior hjemor- rlioidal artery "Gluteus uiaxunus Fio. 570.—The Pehineat. Distribut.'on of the Inteunai. Pudic Artkhy in the Male. the cotyloid notch on the inner side of the transverse ligament, to supply the ligamentum teres and the head of the femur. 2. Internal Pudic Artery (a,, pudenda interna, Figs. 569 and 570).—The internal pudic artery arises from the anterior division of tlie internal iliac close to the origin of the sciatic artery, whicli slightly exceeds it in size. It runs down- wards and backwards in front of the pyriformis muscle and the sacral plexus, from hotli of which it is separated by the pelvic fascia, and on the outer side of the rectum to the lower part of the great sciatic foramen. In this course it pierces the pelvic fascia, passes between the pyriformis and coccygens muscles, and leaves the pelvis to enter the buttock in company with the corresponding veins, the sciatic vessels and nerves, tlie pudic nerve, and the nerve to the obturator internus. In the buttock it lies, under cover of the gluteus maximus, on the spine of the ischium, between the pudic nerve and the nerve to the obturator internus, the former being internal to it. It next passes through the small sciatic foramen and enters the perineum, in the anterior part of which it terminates by dividing into the artery of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the penis.