349 THE MUSCLES OF THE BUTTOCK. muscle, its fibres converging to the great trochanter, to be inserted by a strong short tendon into, a diagonal line on its outer surface. The muscle is covered along its anterior border by the tensor fascia3 femoris. Its surface is covered over by the fascia lata and the gluteus maximus. Its inferior border is separated from the pyriformis muscle by the super- ficial branch of the gluteal artery. Its deep surface is in contact with the gluteus minimus, the gluteal vessels, the superior gluteal nerve, and the in- sertion of the pyri- formis. A bursa is placed beneath the tendon at its inser- tion. The gluteus minimus arises from the dorsum ilii be- tween the middle and inferior curved lines. This muscle is fan-shaped, and its fibres converge to the antero-superior Internal pudic ner Nerve to obturator internus Adductor magn Hamstring muscles (biceps) angle of the great Superior gluteal nerve Gluteus medius (cut) Inferior gluteal nerve Pyriformis '^^ Obturator internus and oemelli Obturator externus QUADRATUS femoris Great sciatic nerve (and subdivisions) Small sciatic nerve Gluteus maximus (insertion) Adductor Magnus Fia. 257.—The Muscles and Nekves of the Buttock. The gluteus maximus is reflected,; and the gluteus medius is cut iu part to sliow the gluteus minimus. trochanter, to be inserted into the outer border of the ■ anterior surface of the trochanter, and sometimes also into the front part of the upper border. It is also inserted into the capsule of the hip-joint. The muscle is concealed by the tensor fasciae femoris and gluteus medius. The pyriformis is in contact with its inferior border, and beneath it are the capsule o| the hip-joint and the reflected tendon of the rectus femoxis muscle. A bursa is placed beneath the tendon in front of the great trochanter. The pyriformis is one of the few muscles connecting the lower limb to the axial skeleton. It arises (1) within the pelvis from the pedicles of the second, third, and fourth sacral vertebrte; passing outwards through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, it receives an additional origin (2) from the upper margin of the great sciatic notch of the ilium; In the buttock it forms a rounded tendon, which is inserted into a facet on the upper border of the great trochanter of the femur. The-pyriformis, besides appearing in the buttock, lines the posterior wall of the pelvis. In the pelvis it lies behind the rectum, covered by a thin layer of the parietal pelvic fascia. In the buttock it is covered by the gluteus maximus, and at its insertion by the gluteus medius, and it lies upon the ilium and the capsule of the hip-joint. At its upper border are the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus, separated by the superior gluteal nerve and the gluteal artery; its lower border is separated from the gemelli and obturator internus by an interval in which the sciatic and pudic vessels and the nerves of the sacral plexus appear. The anterior fibres of the muscle may be separate (scansorius). The obturator internus arises on the pelvic aspect of the hip bone, from (1) the whole of the margin of the thyroid foramen (except the obturator notch); (2) the surface of the obturator membrane ; (3) from the smooth surface of the hip bone behind the thyroid foramen ; and (4) slightly from the parietal pelvic fascia covering