480 THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM. CORPORA QUADRICEMINA medulla than the vago-glosso-pharyngeal nucleus of termination. Kolliker states that it can be traced, downwards as low as the level of the decussation of the fillet, and iipwards as high as the place of entrance of the cochlear root of the auditory nerve. From its dorsal aspect the axons of the cells proceed, and in the first instance they pass backwards towards the fioor of the fourth ventricle; then, bending suddenly outwards and forwards, they join the afferent roots of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, and emerge from the brain in company with these. Auditory Nerve (nervus acusticus).—This is a large nerve which joins the brain at the lower border of the pons Varolii and on the ventral aspect of the restiform body. It is an afferent nerve, and its fibres spring from bipolar ganglionic cells either within or in the immediate neighbourhood of the labyrinth or internal ear (see section dealing with the organs of sense). Keaching the brain the auditory nerve divides into two parts, viz. the nervus cochlearis and the nervus vestibularis, which present totally different connexions and apparently exercise absolutely distinct functions. In their further course these two divisions deviate from each other so as to embrace the restiform body—the vestibular part entering the pons on the inner or mesial aspect of the restiform body, whilst the cochlear part sweeps round its outer surface. Special nuclei of termination require to be studied in connexion with each part of the nerve. The cochlear nerve is composed of finer fibres than the vestibular nerve, and these acquire their medullary sheaths at a later period. It is the true nerve of hearing, and its fibres end in a ganglion which lies in intimate relation to the restiform body, and which may be described as consisting of two parts. Of these one, called the tuberculum acusticum or the lateral cochlear nucleus, is a pyriform mass which is placed on the outer aspect of the restiform body—between it and the flocculus I of the cerebellum. The second part, termed the ventral cochlear nucleus, does not extend so low down as the tuberculum acusticum. It is a wedge- shaped nuclear mass which is placed on the ventral aspect of the restiform body in the interval be- tween the cochlear and vestibular divisions of tlie auditory nerve, after they have separated from each other. The fibres of the cochlear nerve enter these two ganglia and end around the cells in terminal arbor- isations, which are finer, closer, and more intricate than those met with in any other nerve nucleus in the brain. The vestibular nerve enters the brain at a Fia. 357.—Central Connexions of the Cochlear and Vestibular slightly higher level than Divisions of the Auditory Nerve. tJie cochlear nerve and on (Diagram founded ou drawings by Ediuger and Ferrier and Turner.) ^j^^ ^^^^^-^^ ^^^^^^ ^j^^ ventral cochlear nucleus. It forces its way backwards through the pons between the restiform body, which lies on its outer side, .and the spinal root of the