G08 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. short head of the biceps. When traced up to the plexus, it is associated with the back of the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves. It passes through the upper part of the popliteal space concealed by the biceps muscle, and separates into upper and lower branches, which accompany the upper and lower external articular arteries to the outer side of the knee-joint. Terminal Branches — The peroneal (external popliteal) and tibial (internal pophteal) nerves are the two main trunks resulting from the combination of the posterior and anterior cords respectively of the sacral plexus. The peroneal nerve is homologous with the musculo-spiral nerve in the upper limb ; the tibial nerve represents a medio-ulnar trunk ; and as already stated, the two nerves, constituting the great sciatic nerve, are enveloped in a common sheath for a variable distance before beginning an independent course. Peroneal Nerve. The peroneal or external popliteal nerve (n. peronaeus communis) arises from the back of the sacral plexus from the fourth and fifth lumbar and first two sacral nerves. Incorporated with the great sciatic nerve in the buttock and upper half of the thigh, it passes downwards from the bifurcation of that nerve through the popliteal space to its termination at a point about an inch below the head of the fibula. It is concealed at first by the biceps muscle. Following the tendon of that muscle, it passes obliquely through the upper and outer part of the popliteal space and over the outer head of the gastrocnemius muscle to the back of the head of the filnila. In the lower part of its course it is directly beneath the deep fascia. Collateral Branches.—These are divided into two sets : (a) Those arising from the roots or trunk of the nerve while it is in combination with the tibial nerve in the great sciatic trunk. These have been already described, viz. a muscular branch to the short head of the biceps, and an articular branch to the knee-joint, (h) Those arising in the popliteal space. These are cutaneous branches, viz. a sural branch and the peroneal communicating. The sural branch (n. cutaneus sura^ lateralis) is irregular in size and distribution, and may be represented by two or more branches (Fig. 442, ]>. 603). Arising from the peroneal nerve in the popliteal space, often in common with the succeeding nerve, it pierces the deep fascia over the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and is distributed to the skin on the outer aspect of the back of the leg in the upper two-thirds. The extent of its distribution varies with that of the small sciatic and external saphenous nerves. The peroneal communicating nerve (r. anastomoticus peronaius, r. communicans fibularis), arising in the popliteal space, passes over the outer head of the gastro- cnemius beneath the deep fascia to the middle third of the leg, where it assists in forming the external saphenous nerve by its union with the tibial communicating branch of the tibial nerve. In many cases the two branches do not unite. In sucli cases the peroneal communicating nerve may be limited in its distribution to the skin of the outer side of the leg, heel, and ankle, or it may be distributed to tlie area usually supplied by the external saphenous nerve. Terminal Branches.—The terminal branches of the peroneal nerve are recurrent tibial, anterior tibial, and musculo-cutaneous. They arise just below the head of the fibula, and are directed forwards, diverging in their course, beneath the peroneus longus muscle. The recurrent tibial nerve is the smallest branch. Passing forwards beneath the origin of the peroneus longus and the extensor longus digitorum muscles, it divides below the outer tuberosity of the tibia into branches which supply the upper fibres of the tibialis anticus muscle, the tibio-fibular articulations, and the knee-joint. Anterior Tibial Nerve. The anterior tibial nerve (n. peronaeus profundus) passes downwards and in- wards, beneath the peroneus longus, extensor longus digitorum, and extensor proprius