STEUCTUEE OF THE INTESTINES. 1011 arrangement ciF this coat will be given with the description of each division (jf the intestinal tube. '2. Muscular Coat (tunica nmscularis).—This consists of unstriped muscle arranged in two layers—an outer, in which the fibres run longitudinally, and an inner, in which they -are circularly disposed. The muscular coat is thicker in the duodenum than in any other part of the small intestine, and it gradually diminishes in thickness until the end of the ileum is reached. On the other hand, in the large intestine, it is thickest in the rectum and thinner towards the beginning of the colon. The longitudinal layer (stratum longitudinale) of this coat is much thinner than the underlying circular layer. In the small intestines it forms a complete sheet, continuous all roiuid the gut (Fig. 683), but thickest at its free margin ; whilst in the large intestine it is divided up into three longitudinal bands (Fig. 692), known as the tcenice coli, which will be more fully described in connection with the colon. The circular layer (stratum circulare), much thicker than the longitudinal layer, is composed of bundles of muscnlar fibres arranged circularly round the tube (Fig. 683), and forming in all parts a continuous sheet. Unlike the longitudinal fibres, those of the circular layer take part in the formation of the pyloric and ileo-csecal valves. 3. Submucous Coat (tela submucosa).—This is a loose but strong layer of areolar tissue connecting the muscular and mucous coats, on which chiefly depends the strength of the intestinal wall. In addition to forming a bed in which the vessels break up before entering the mucous coat, it contains the glands of Bruniier in the duodenum (Fig. 684), and in both small and large in- testine the bases of the solitaiy glands lie in it (Fig. 684). 4. Mucous Coat (tunica mucosa).— The mucous mem- brane constitutes the inner coat of the intestine, on which its digestive functions depend. It is every- where composed (Fig. 684) of the following jDarts :—(1) A layer of striated, cohmmar, epithelial cells, rest- ing on (2) a V)asement membrane. Outside this lies (3) a layer of retiform tissue, con- taining a considerable number of scattered lymphoid cells. This layer is limited towards the submucosa by (4) an extremely thin sheet of unstriped muscle, the muscularis mucosa, which is not visible to the naked eye. The mucous membrane is extremely vascular, particularly in the small intestine. It is thicker in the duodenum than in the jejunum, and thicker in this latter than in the ileum. Throughout both the small and large intestines the substance of the mucous membrane is closely beset witii innumerable small (microscopic) tubular glands, known as the glands or follicles of Lieberkiihn (glandulsc intestinales). In shape they are minute straight tubes—like diminutive test-tubes—with their mouths opening on the surface, their closed ends lying in the deeper ])art of the nuicous coat, and their cavities lined by colimniar epithelium. They open on the surface between the villi of tlie small intestine, and are present also on the valvulse conuiventes. In the large gut their orifices are found all over tiie surface of the mucous membrane. Submucosa Circular muscular fibres Longitudinal nuiscular fibres Peritonemn Lieberkiihns sclaml Submucosa Circular muscular fibres Longitudinal muscular fibres =i Peritoneum— Villi LieberkUlin's gland Muscularis mucosa' Brunner's glands |! Circular f muscular fibres ^ Longitudinal muscular fibres Peritoneum Villi Blood-vessels forming net- work in sub- uuicosa Blood-vessel SMALL INTESTINE X 20 Fl<! 684. — Dlvgram to show the structure of the small and large intestine an<l the duodenum. Certain special developments of the mucous coat, found in particular regions of