THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 500 Decussation of the superior cerebellar peduncles eyeball, viz. the sphincter iridis and the musciilus ciliaris. The nucleus of origin is placed in the ventral part of the Sylvian gray matter subjacent to the superior quadrigeminal body (Fig. 366, p. 495). In length it measures from 5 to 6 mm. Its lower end is partially continuous with the nucleus of the troch- lear nerve, whilst its upper end extends upwards for a short distance beyond the mesen- cephalon into the gray matter on the lateral wall of the third ventricle. Its relation to the posterior longitudinal bundle is even more intimate than that of the trochlear nucleus. It is closely applied to the dorsal and inner aspect of this strand; many of its cells occupy a posi- tion in the intervals between the nerve bundles of the tract, and some even are seen on its ventral or tegmental aspect. KiG. 372.—Section through the Inferior Quadrigeminal Body The axous of the nuclear cells AND THE Tegmentum of the Mesencephalon at the l^gg^yg i\^q nucleus in numerous IjEvel ok THE Lower Part of the Nucleus of the Troch- , , • i i -i LEAR Nerve (Orang). bundles, which describe a series of curves as they proceed for- wards through the posterior longitudinal bundle, the tegmentum, red nucleus, and inner margin of the substantia nigra, to finally emerge from the brain-stem along the bottom of the sulcus oculo-motorius on the inner aspect of the crus cerebri. The cells of the oculo-motor nuclevis are not uniformly distributed tliroughout it. They are grouped into several more or less distinct collections or clumps, some of which possess cells which differ in size and appearance from the others. These cell-clusters are very generally believed to possess a definite relation to the several branches of the nerve and tlie nuiscles which they supply. Pei'lia recognises no less than seven such cell-clusters in each luicleus, with a small median nucleus placed accurately on the middle line, and from which fibres for both nerves spring. Whilst the majority of the fibres in the oculo-motor nerve arise from the cell-groups which lie on its own side of the mesial plane, it has tieeu satisfactorily establislied that a certain proportion of its fibres are derived from the nucleus of the opposite side, thus forming a crossed connexion and giving rise to a median decussation. These crossed fibres are supposed by some to supply the internal rectus muscle ; and if this be the case, the harmonious action of the external and internal recti muscles in producing the conjugate movements of the eyeballs could be under- stood without accei^ting in full the views of Duval and Laborde (p. The oculo-motor nucleus is connected—(1) with the occipital part of the cerebral cortex by fibres which reach it through the oj)tic radiations ; (2) with the troclilear and abducent nuclei (and probably with other nuclei) by fibres which come to it through the posterior longitudinal bundle; (3) possibly with the facial nerve by fibres which f)ass out from it into the posterior longitudinal bundle (p. 496); (4) with the visual system bj' fibres which enter it from the cells of the suj^erior quadrigeminal body. Development of the Mesencephalon. Even in the early embryo the mesencephalon constitutes the smallest section of the brain-tube, although the disproportion in size between it and the other primitive sub- divisions of the brain is not nearly so marked as in the adult. Owing to the cephalic flexure, the mid-brain for a time occupies the highest part of the summit of the head. Later on it becomes completely covered over by the expanding cerebral hemispheres. The corpora quadrigemina are derived from the alar laminte of the lateral walls of the brain-tube, wliilst the basal lamin* thicken and idtimately form the tegmenta and crustae of the two crura cerebri. The original cavity of the mid brain is retained as the aqueduct of Sylvius. For a considerable time the cavity of the mesencephalon remains relatively large, and the lower part of its dorsal wall is carried downwards in the form of a diverticulum or recess, which overlaps the cerebellar plate. About this time, also, the dorsal wall shows a