INTEENAL STEUCTUEE OF THE MESENCEPHALON. 495 remaindei- make their way tlirough the optic thalamus, enter the posterior limb of the internal capsule, and, through this, are carried upwards to the cerebral cortex of the Eolandic area (Flechsig ; Ferrier, and Turner). The superior cerebellar peduncle is, therefore, to be regarded as a great efferent tract which issues from the lateral hemisphere of the cerebellum, crosses the mesial plane in the lower part of the mesencephalon, and ends in the red nucleus, the ventral part of the optic thalamus and the Eolandic area of the cerebral cortex of the opposite side. Fig. 366.—Thansveese Section through the Human Mesencephalon at the Level of the Superior quadrigeminal body. Red Nucleus (nucleus ruber).—This is an elongated nuclear mass, of a reddish tint in the fresh brain, which lies in the upper part of the tegmentum, and in transverse section presents a circular outline. It begins at the level of the lower border of the superior quadrigeminal body and it extends upwards into the siib- thalaniic tegmental region. At first it is small and is placed at a little distance from the mesial plane; but as it proceeds towards the subthalamic region, it increases in bulk and approaches more nearly to the mesial raphe, and its neighboiir of the opposite side. The curved emerging bundles of the third nerve pass through it on their way to the surface. The relation which the fibres of the opposite superior cerebellar peduncle present to it has been described. These fibres traverse its lower part in such numbers that in Weigert-Pal specimens it presents a very dark colour; but higher up, as the fibres are gradually absorbed by the nuclear mass, they become less numerous in its midst, and the nucleus assumes a paler tint. The posterior longitudinal fasciculus is a very conspicuous tract of longi- tudinal fibres which extends throughout the whole length of the medulla, pons, and mesencephalon, in the formatio reticularis or tegmental part of each. Below, at the level of the decussation of the pyramids, it becomes continuous with the anterior basis-bundle of the spinal cord (p. 455), whilst, by its opposite or upper end, it establishes intricate connexions in the region immediately above the mesencephalon.. Throughout its whole length it lies close to the mesial plane and its fellow of the opposite side. In the mesencephalon it is applied to the ventral aspect of the Sylvian gray matter, whilst in the pons and medulla it is situated immediately subjacent to the gray matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle. One of its most