THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. 366 the iliac crest between the muscles of the back and abdominal wall. It is formed by the union of three fascial strata, called respectively the vertebral aponeurosis or Rectus ABi>oM.Nis ^ posterior laycijust described; the middle and the anterior layers. The middle layer is a fascia which stretches outwards from the ends of the transverse pro- cesses of the lumbar vertebrae, between the erec- tor spinae behind and the quadratus lumborum muscle in front. The anterior layer is attached to the lumbar vertebrae at the junction of their transverse processes and bodies. It covers the front of the quadratus lum- borum muscle, and separates it from the psoas. At the outer borders of the quadratus lumborum and erector spinae muscles the three layers are blended together to form the lumbar fascia, M^hich in turn gives partial origin to the obliquus interuus and transversalis abdominis muscles. Obliquos externus Obliquus internu; Transversalis abdominis' Fascia transversalis Peritoneum Colon Extraperitoneal tissue Kidney Lumbar fase Latissim QCADRATUS lumborum Psoas fascia Second lumbar \-crttdira Psoas Anterior layer of lumbar fascia MULTIFIDUS SPIN^ Semispinalis DORSI Vertebral aponeurosis LONOISSIMUS DORSI Pig. 269.—Transverse Section through the Abdomen, opposite the Second Lumbar Vertebra. THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. The mi;scles of the back are arranged in four series according to their attach- ments: (1) vertebro - scapular and vertebro - humeral, (2) veftebro - costal, (3) vertebro-cranial, and (4) vertebral. They are in irregular strata, the most superficial muscles having the most widely separated attachments. The first series of muscles of the back, connecting the axial skeleton to the upper limb, have already been described. They are arranged in two layers: (1) trapezius and latissimus dorsi, superficially; (2) levator anguli scapulae, and rhomboidei beneath the trapezius. The remaining muscles are almost entirely axial, and may be divided into four groups: (1) serrati postici, superior and inferior, and splenius capitis and colli; (2) erector spinae and complexus; (3) transverso-spinales (semispinalis and multi- fidus spinae); and (4) the small deep muscles (rotatores, interspinales, intertrans- versales, and suboccipital muscles). First Group. The serratus posticus superior has a membranous origin from the ligamentum nuchae and the spines of the last cervical and upper three or four thoracic vertebrae. It is directed obliquely downwards and outwards, to be inserted by separate slips into the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs. The muscle is concealed by the vertebro-scapular muscles, and crosses obliquely the splenius, erector spinae, and complexus. It lies superficial to the vertebral aponeurosis. The serratus posticus inferior has a membranous origin through the medium