THE CUNEIFORM BONES. 239 II. Metataksai. Metatarsal great toe in front, and the fore and inner part of the navicular behind. Its iqyper, lower, and internal surfaces are confluent, and form a convexity from above down- wards, which is most pronounced interiorly, where it is turned towards the plantar side of the foot. On the fore part of the inner aspect of the bone there is usually a distinct oval im- pression, which indicates the surface of insertion of a portion of the tendon of the tibialis anticus muscle. Elsewhere this surface is rough for ligamentous attachments. The external surface of the bone, quadrilateral in shape, is directed towards the middle cuneiform; but as it ex- ceeds it in length, it also comes in contact with the inner side of the base of the second meta- tarsal bone. Eunning along the posterior and upper edges of this area is an r~-shaped articular surface, the fore and upper part of which is for the base of the second metatarsal bone, the remainder articulating with the inner side of the middle cuneiform. The non-articular part of this aspect of the bone is rough for the attachment of the strong interosseous ligaments, which bind it to the middle cuneiform and second metatarsal bones respectively. The posterior or proximal end of the bone is provided with a pyriform facet which fits on the inner articular area of the navi- cular. Anteriorly the vertical dia- meter of the bone is much increased, and the facet for the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe is metatarsal facet IV. Meta- tarsal Fio. 181.—Anterior View of the three Cuneiform Bones of the Eight Foot. Metatarsal I. Meta- Impression eob tendon ok tibialis' ANTICUS Middle cuneieorm Fiu. 182.—The Right Intkkn.vl Cuneiform (luuer Side). Fic. 183.—The Kiuht Internal Cuneiform (Outer Side). IS E.X.TERNAL CUNEIFORM consequently much larger than that for the navicular. The usually of semilunar form, but not infrequently is more reuiform in shape, and may in some cases display complete separation into two oval portions. The middle or second cuneiform (os cuneiforme secundum) is of a typical wedge shape; shorter than the others, it lies between them, articulating with the base of the second metatarsal in front, and the middle facet on the anterior sur- face of the navicular behind. Its upper aspect, which corresponds to the base of the wedge, conforms to the roundness of the instep, and is slightly convex from side to side, affording attachments for the dorsal ligaments. Its under surface is II. Internal Metatarsal cuneiform narrow and tubercular, forming the . edge of the wedge II. Metatarsal Fiu. 184.—The Right Middle Cuneiform (Inner Side). Fig. 185.—The Right Middle Cuneiform (Outer Side). , with this the plantar liga- ments are connected. The inner surface, quadrilateral in outline, is furnished with an r-shaped articular area along its posterior and superior borders in correspondence with the similar area on the outer side of the internal cuneiform. The rest of this aspect is rough for ligaments. The outer side displays a facet arranged along its posterior border, and usually somewhat con- stricted in the middle; this is for the external cuneiform. In front of this the bone is rough for the interosseous ligaments, which bind the two bones together. The proximal end is provided with a triangular facet slightly concave from above