OSTEOLOGY. lates al>o\e witli the trochlea of Fio. 135.—The Hadius and Ur.NA as seen from the Fiuint. < )l.r;('RAN'ON I'iicXT.SS GllKAT SlCMdlD CAVITY CORONOID PROCESS^ Brachiiilis auticus Flexor subliiiiis , (ligitoruiii Pronator 'radii teres ALL SIGMOID CAVITY I- lexor loiigus poUicis Tuberosity ipital hollow . Supinator railii brevis The inferior extremity of the uhia presents ii rounded head (capitulum nhue), from which, on its inner and posterior a,spect, there ])rojects downwards a cylindrical pointed process called the styloid process (processus styloideus). To the extremity of this latter is attached the external lateral ligament, wliilst in front it has connected with it the antero- internal portion of the capsule of the wrist joint. The autero- external half of the circum- ference of the head is furnished with a smooth narrow convex articular surface, which fits into the sigmoid cavity of the radius. Its inferior surface, flat and semilunar in shape, and separ- ated from the root of the styloid process by a well-marked groove, rests on the upper surface of the triangular fibro - cartilage of the wrist, the apex of which is attached to the groove just mentioned. The margins of the head in front and behind the radial articular surface have attached to them the anterior and posterior inferior radio- ulnar ligaments. The hinder and outer surface of the styloid process is channelled by a groove which separates it from the posterior surface of the head, and extends some little way up the posterior aspect of the lower end of the shaft. In this is lodged the tendon of the ex- tensor carpi ulnaris muscle. The proportionate length of the ulna to the body height is as 1 is to 6-26-6-66. KRIAL FORAMEN -iNTERONSEOt^ BORDER Pronator ^<iuailratus Nutrient Foramina.—A fora- men, having an ui>ward direction for the nutrient artei-y of tlie sliaft, opens on the anterior surface of the l)one from two to three inches helow tile tuberosity. Vascuhir canals of large size are seen above and Ijehind the small sigmoid cavity, just jjos- . terior to the notched external border of tlie great sigmoid cavity. At the lower end of the bone similar open- ings are seen in the groove between the styloid process and the inferior articular surface of the lieacl. Connexions.—The ulna articu- the humerus. On the outer side it is in contact with the radius above and below, the superior radio - ulnar articulation being formed by the head of the radius and the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, the inferior radio- ulnai' joint comprising the head of the ulna, which fits into the sigmoid cavity of the ratlins. ]5etween lliese two joints the shafts of the bones are united by the interosseous mendjrane. The Styloid PROCESS Styloid PROCESS