THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. 402 The obliquus internus is limited above by the costal arch. Its lower fibres, arching over the spermatic cord, assist in forming, externally, the anterior wall of the inguinal canal; internally, by means of the conjoint tendon, its posterior wall. Its lowest fibres are continued into the cremaster muscle, prolonged along the spermatic cord, through the inguinal canal. The cremaster muscle may be said to liave an origin from the lower border of the obliquus internus, and from the middle of Poupart's hgament. It forms a thin sheet, enveloping the testicle and spermatic cord ; its fibres are arranged in loops wliich arch over the cord, and are inserted into the fascia, and to a less extent (uppermost fibres) into the pubic spine. The muscle is more largely represented by fascia in the female, and constitutes the cremasteric fascia. The transversalis muscle arises (1) from the under surface of the costal cartilages of the lower six ribs, interdigitating with the origins of the diaphragm; (2) from the lumbar fascia; (3) from the anterior half of the inner lip of the iliac crest; and (4) from the outer third of Poupart's ligament. The muscular fibres Obliquus externus Obliquus internus Obliquus internus (cut) Deep circumflex iliac artery Internal abdominal ring and infundibulifonn fascia Cremaster muscle Obliquus externus Spermatic cord passing through cremaster muscle Obliquus externus Obliquus internus (cut) Transversalis muscle Over deep epigastric artery Fascia transversalis Deep epigastric artery Conjoint tendon . ■ Over outer border of rectus abdominis Spermatic cord '— Triangular fascia Fig. 297.—The Groin. The structures seen on rcHexiou of part of the obliquus internus. are directed for the most part horizontally forwards, and end in an aponeurosis which has a twofold insertion. (1) After forming (along with the aponeurosis of the obliquus internus) the posterior layer of the sheath of the rectus, the aponeurosis is attached to the ensiform cartilage and linea alba. (2) The lower fibres of the muscle are joined by the lower part of the obliquus internus to form the conjoint tendon, which passes in front of the lower part of the rectus muscle, to be inserted into the crest and spine of the pubis and the ilio-pectineal line. The transversalis muscle is separated by the lower intercostal nerves from the obliquus internus muscle, and is lined on its deep surface by the transversalis fascia. Its lower border forms a concave edge, separated from Poupart's ligament by a lunular interval filled by the transversalis fascia, through which the spermatic cord emerges at the internal abdominal ring, finder cover of the obliquus internus muscle. The anterior muscles of the abdominal wall include the pyramidalis and rectus abdominis, enveloped by the rectus sheath, on either side of the linea alba. The pyramidalis abdominis is a small triangular muscle arising from the pubic