256 THE AETIOULATIONS OE JOINTS. Pedicle of vertebra divided Fig. 201.—LiGAMENTA SUBFLAVA AS SEEN FROM THE FkONT AFTER RE- MOVAL OF THE Bodies of the Vertebra by sawing through the Pedicles. lumbar, and weakest in the dorsal region. Each consists of layers of obliquely interlacing fibres which spring from near the tips of the two adjacent spines and radiate to their opposing margins. In the antero- posteiior direction they extend from the base to the tip of the spinous process. The supraspinous liga- ments (ligg- supra- spinalia,Fig. 198) consist of longitudinal bands of fibres of varying lengths. They extend from spine to spine, being attached to their tips,and are situated superficial to, although in continuity with, the interspinous ligaments. In the cervical region this series of ligaments is extensively developed, where they project back- wards from the spinous processes between the muscles of the two sides of the neck in the form of an elastic partition called the ligamentum nuchse. The antero-posterior extent of the ligamentum nuchte increases as it approaches the occiput, where it is attached to the occipital crest from the external occipital protuberance to the posterior border of the foramen magnum. Its posterior margin is free, and extends from the external occipital protuberance to the spine of the vertebra prominens. Between the transverse processes there are intertransverse ligaments (ligg. inter- transversaria), which consist of vertical fibres extending from the postero-inferior aspect of one transverse process to the superior margin of that next below. These ligaments are generally absent from the cervical and upper dorsal regions. Sacro-coccygeal Joint.—The last piece of the sacrum is joined to the first piece of the coccyx by an intervertebral disc, and" the junction is rendered more secure by the presence of certain strong ligaments. An anterior ligament (lig. sacro-coccygeum anterius), continuous with the anterior common ligament, is placed in front. A posterior ligament (lig. sacro-coccygeum posterius), which stretches downwards from the sharp border of the lower opening of the sacral canal, strengthens the joint behind. A lateral ligament (lig. sacro-coccygeum laterale) supports the joint on each side, whilst strong bands pass between the cornua of the two bones and constitute the interarticular ligaments. Inter-coccygeal Joints.—So long as they remain separate, the different pieces of the coccyx are joined by intervertebral discs and by anterior and posterior liga- ments. Movements of the Vertebral Column.—Although the amount of movement permis.sibk' between any two verteLrje is extremely limited, yet the total range of movement capable of being attained by the entire vertebral column is very considerable. Flexion may occur both forwards and backwards at the intercentral articulations, but more freely in the lumbar and cervical regions than in the dorsal region, where the limited amount of intervertebral disc and the imbrication of the lamiiiie and sjnnes restrict the movement. Back- ward flexion is most pronounced in the cervical region, and forward flexion in the lumbar regiou. Between the articular surfaces of the interneural articulations a variety of movements are jier- raitted, dependent upon the directions of these surfaces.