986 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. The ascending palatine artery, running upwards and backwards between the stylo- glossus and stylo-pharyngeus, lies in close relation to the outer surface of the tonsil— separated only by its capsule and the supei'ior constrictor—as does also the tonsillar artery, which is often represented by a branch of the last. More external still lies the internal pterygoid and the ramns of the jaw; whilst the internal carotid artery, with the large cranial nerve trunks, is placed f to 1 inch behind and to its outer side (Fig. 664). The size of the tonsils is extremely variable, but as a rule, in early life, they measure something- under 1 inch (20 to 22 mm.) fi'om al)Ove downwanls, al)out f inch (18 to 20 mm.) antero-posteriorly, and J inch (12 to 15 mm.) from within out. In the child and young adult thero is usually seen a thin triangular fold of mucou.s nieui- hrane, the plica triangularis (His), which stretches from the anterior jjalatine arch backwards for a variable distance over the tonsil (Fig. 661). Its apex is directed upwards towards the soft palate, its base toward.s the tongue, and its free margin crosses the tonsil, to which it often adheres in later life. In this latter condition the plica encloses a more or less distinct sj)ace situated between itself and the tonsil, in which diseased processes are often set up. Above the tonsil, as already mentioned, is found a variably-developed depression, the supra- tonsillar fossa, which occasionally is of considerable size, and then extends either ujjwards into the soft palate or forwai'ds and downwards beneath the plica triangularis. This fossa is frequently the seat of supjturative changes, and is consequently of considerable clinical importance. The supratonsillar fossa, like the lateral recess of the jiharynx, is the remains of the pharyn- geal portion of the second visceral cleft. The palate in its growth backwards crosses the cleft, whicli it di\'ides into two parts—namely, the pharyngeal recess above, and the supratonsillar recess below the soft palate. In the severe haiinorrhage which has been known to follow excision of an enlarged tonsil, and whicli has been errf)neoiisly attributed to the wounding of the internal carotid artery, the blood is derived chiefly from enlarged branches of the ascending palatine, tonsillar, or ascending l)liaryngeal vessels. The arteries of the tonsil are derived from the ascending jialatine and tonsillar branches of the facial, the ascending pharyngeal of the external carotid, and the doi'salis linguic of the lingual. The veins pass to the tonsillar plexus, on the outer side of the tonsil, whicli is an offshoot of the pharyngeal venous plexus. Nerves.—The tonsil receives a special branch from the glosso-pharyngeal; this unites with branches from the pharyngeal jjlexus in a small plexus tonsillaris which supplies the organ. The lymphatics are extremely numerous, and pass down to join some of the submaxillary lymphatic glands near the angle of the jaw. Laryngeal Portion of the Pharynx (pars laryngea). — This division of the pharyngeal cavity lies behind the larynx (Fig. 660). It is wide above, where it is continuous with the oral portion, and maintains a consideralile width until within about an inch of its termination, when behind the cricoid cartilage it narrows rapidly and passes down to join the oesophagus. Except during the passage of food, the anterior and posterior walls of this latter part are in contact, and its cavity is reduced to a mere transverse slit (Fig. 661). The anterior mall of the laryngeal portion of the pliarynx is formed in its whole extent by the hack of the larynx, of which the following parts are seen within the pharyngeal cavity (Fig. 660):—Tlie epiglottis above; below this the superior aperture of the larynx, bounded at the sides by the aryteno-epiglottic folds; outside these folds is seen on each side a deep recess, the sinus pyriformis (recessus piriformis, Fig. 660). Lower down still, the liack of the arytenoid and cricoid cartilage, covered by muscles and mucous membrane, are visible. Its posterior and lateral v:alls are directly continuous with the corresponding walls of the oral ])]iarynx, and present no features which recpiire special notice. A ])rouiinent fold of the nuicous membrane, extending from the side of the epiglottis, rinis u]i along the lateral wall, upon which it ends near the posterior palatine arch. This, the pharyngo-epiglottic fold, is often described as a lateral glosso-epiglottic fold. The sinus pyriformis is a deep depression, seen on each side between the aryteno- epiglottic fold aiul tlu; ala of the thyroid cartilage. When viewed from above, as in laryngosc()])ic exanunations, it appears of a pyriform shape, the wider end being- directed upwards and forwards. When viewed from behind, the recess is boat- shaped an(l elongated in the vertical direction. Its outer wall is formed by the thyroid cartilage and thyro-hyoid membrane, covered by mucous membrane ; its