1015 THE DUODENUM. THE DUODENUM. The duodenum, the portion of the dioestive tube which iiuiiiediately succeeds the stomacli, is the first part of the small intestine, and differs from the rest of that tube in having no mesentery, and also in l)eing closely fixed to the posterior aJ)dominal wall—conditions which are evidently assf)ciated with its relation to the bile and pancreatic ducts, both of which o])en into its cavity. Shape and Divisions.—The duodenum l)egins at the pylorus, al)Out the level of the first lunil)ar vertebra, and ends, after a somewhat C-shaped course, at the left side of the first or second lumbar vertebra (Fig. (387). It is generally described as l)eing made up of three parts, namely:—(1) The first or superior portion which begins at the pylorus, passes backwarils and to the right lieneatli the liver, and ends at tlie neck of the gall-bladder, by turning down and joining (2) the second or descending portion. Tliis begins at the neck of the gall-bladder, runs down l)ehind the transverse colon (Fig. 688), and ends opposite the third or fourth ]uml)ar vertebra by turning to the left, and passing into (3) the third or inferior portion. This at first runs more or less transversely to the left, across the vena cava, and then ascends, in front of the aorta, as far as the under surface of the pancreas, where, at the level of the first or second luml^ar verteljra, it bends abruptly forwards, forming the duodeno-jejunal flexure (Fig. 687), and passes into the jejunum. Taking the whole of the duodenum together, it forms an irregularly C-shaped curve, with the opening of the C directed upwards and to the left, and the ends reacliing to within a.bout two inches of one another. Within the concavity of tlie curve the ]iead of the pancreas is placed. The incomplete ring which tlie duodenum makes does not all lie in the same plane ; for, whilst its greater part is placed in a transverse-vertical plane, the middle portion bends strongly l)ackwards, round tlie right side of the vena cava, and lies almost in a sagittal plane (Fig. 687). Position and Size.—As a rule, a little more than half of the duodenum lies in the epigastrium, the remainder, namely, al.)0ut the lower third of the descending portion and the adjoining two-thirds of the inferior or third portion, are placed in the umbilical region. With the exception of the terminal ascending portion of the third part, the whole of the duodenum lies to the right of the middle line. Its length is usually about 11 inches (27'5 cm.), its first portion being the shortest and its third portion the longest. Its diameter varies considerably, and may be stated to average about li inclies when empty, but it may be as much as two inches wlien distended. Relations.—The first or superior portion (pars superior) begins at the pylorus opposite the first lumbar vertebra. From this it runs to the right, and then ])ackw;7rds, l)eneath the liver, when the stomacli is empty; but directly backwards when it is full; and ends at the neck of the gall-l)ladder by turning downwards and passing into the second part. Its length varies from about l| to 2 inches (3'7 to 5"0 cm.), and is said to be greater when the stomach is empty than when distended. Its relations (Figs. 687 and 688) are as follows:—Above and in front lies the quadrate lol)e of the liver, which hangs downwards and to the right over the tul)e. Belotv, it rests on the head and neck of the pancreas (the latter running up liehiud it for a little way). Behind it, close to the pylorus, the portal vein ascends to the liver, and the bile duct with the gastro-duodenal artery passes downw"ards. Further to the right, as it bends liackwards, it lies against the right side of the vena cava. Its peritoneal relations for aliout an inch from the pylorus are the same as those of the pyloric end of the stomach, that is to say, l)oth the anterior and posterior surfaces are covered, and the lesser and great omenta are attached to its upper and lower liorders respectively (Fig. 688). Beyond this, however, only the anterior surface has a serous coat. Tile peritoneal covering of the tirst half of the posterior surface is derived fi'oni a diver- licnluin of the small sac which nms to the right behind the duodenum for the distance meutioiH'il.