THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 438 between the tract of Burdach and the postero-median septum. Later on the lateral and anterior columns are increased in bulk by the descent into them of the pyramidal tracts from the brain. The gray matter, in the first- instance, is chiefly massed in the basal lamina; but as the posterior columns of white matter begin to take shape it extends backward, and in the course of time the posterior horns are developed. The manner in which the dendritic processes of the neuroblasts are developed has been sufficiently described (p. 417). The ensheathment, also, of the axons by medulla has been referred to, and the fact that the different tracts of fibres receive their medvil- lary sheaths at different periods mentioned. It is now only necessary to state that the order of myelinisation of the several tracts is as follows :—(1) Fibres of the anterior nerve- roots ; (2) tract of Burdach; (3) fibres in the basis-bi;ndles; (4) tract of Goll; (5) direct cerebellar tract; (6) tract of Gowers ■ (7) pyramidal tracts (Kahler). Development of the Median Fissures and of the Central Canal.—As the anterior horns of gray matter covered by the anterior columns of white matter increase in size, the anterior surface of the cord on either side of the mesial plane bulges forwards, and the antero-median fissure is pi'oduced as the natural result. The manner in which the postero-median fissure comes into existence is not fully understood, but the majority of embryologists believe that it is produced by the approxi- mation and fusion of the walls of the posterior part of the primitive cavity of the neural tube. The postero-median septum would thus appear to be formed of spongioblastic tissue. If the above view of the formation of the postero-median fissure be correct, it must be evident that the central canal of the cord does not represent the whole of the primitive cavity of the early neural tube, but only the anterior portion of it. Among those observers who do not hold that the central canal and posterior fissiu'e have this mode of origin the most prominent is Professor A. W. Robinson, of King's College; and he has brought forward evidence which seems to indicate that it is doubtful if the fusion of the walls of the posterior part of the canal, referred to above, takes place. Certainly the arrangement of the ependymal elements of the postero-median septum, as seen in the jireparations of Cajal and v. Lenhossek, are extremely difficult to understand on the fusion theory. They run in the antero-posterior direction, whereas, if fusion has taken place, most of them would present a transverse arraifgeraent, and thus lie at right angles to the postero-median septum. THE BRAIN OR ENCEPHALON. The brain is the enlarged and greatly modified upper part of the cerebrospinal nervous axis. It is surrounded by the same membranes that envelop the spinal cord (viz. the dura mater, the arachnoid mater, and the pia mater), and it almost completely fills up the cavity of the cranium. So closely, indeed, is the skull capsule moulded upon the brain that the impress of the latter is almost everywhere evident upon the deep surface of the cranial wall. The relations, therefore, of cranium to brain are totally different from those presented by the vertebral canal to the spinal cord. As we have noted, the cord occupies only a part of its bony case; and there is not only a wide and roomy space between the arachnoid mater and pia mater, but also an interval of some width between the dura mater and the walls of the vertebral canal. General Appearance of the Brain.—When viewed from above the brain presents an ovoid figure, the broad end of which is directed backwards. Its greatest transverse diameter is usually found in the neighbourhood of that part which lies between the two parietal eminences of the cranium. The only parts which are visible when the brain is inspected from this point of view are the two convoluted cerebral hemispheres. These present an extensive convex surface, which is closely applied to the deep aspect of the cranial vault, and are separated from each other by a deep median cleft, termed the great longitudinal fissure, which extends from the front to the back of the brain. The inferior aspect of the brain is usually termed the " base." It presents an uneven and irregular surface, which is more or less accurately adapted to the mequalities on the floor of the cranium. Upon this aspect of the brain some of its main subdivisions may be recognised. Thus behind is seen the short cylindrical portion, called the bulb or medulla oblongata, through which, at the foramen magnum,