287 HIP-JOINT. Anterior inferior- iliac spine Cotyloid ligament k (2) The pubo-femoral or pubo-capsular ligament (lig. pubo - femorale v. pubo- capsulare, I'ig. 222) is composed of some bands of fibres of no great strength, wliich extend from the outer end of the horizontal ramus of the pubis, the ilio- pectineal eminence, the obturator crest and the obturator membrane, to lose themselves for the most part in the cap- sule, although a cer- tain proportion of them may be traced to the inferior aspect of the femoral neck, where they adjoin the lower attachment of the Y-shaped liga- ment. (3) The ischio-cap- sular ligament (lig. ischio-capsulare, Fig. 220) consists of a broad band of short, fairly strong longi- tudinal fibres, which, by their upper ends, are attached to the ischium between the small sciatic notch and the obturator foramen, while their lower ends become merged in the zona orbicularis of the general capsule. Within the capsule, and quite distinct from it, there are the ligamentum teres and the Haversian gland. The interarticular ligament (lig. teres femoris. Fig. 221) is a strong, somewhat flattened band of fibrous tissue, attached by one end to the upper half of the pit or depression on the head of the femur. By its inner end it is attached to the lower edge of the articular surface of the transverse ligament, with extensions to the opposite borders of the acetabular notch, but chiefly to the hinder or ischial border. This ligament varies very greatly in its strength and development in different subjects, and in certain rare cases it is absent. The so-called Haversian gland occupies the bottom or non-articular area of the acetabulum. It consists of a mass of fat covered by synovial membrane. This pad of fat is continuous with the extra-capsular fat through the passage subjacent to the transverse ligament of the notch. A synovial membrane lines the capsule from which it is reflected to the neck of the femur along a line which corresponds to the femoral attachments of the capsule. Thus the synovial membrane clothes more of the femoral neck anteriorly than in any other position. Posteriorly, where the capsule is feebly attached to the neck of the femur, the synovial membrane may be seen from the outside of the capsule. The synovial membrane extends close up to the articular margin of the head of the femur, and on the upper and lower aspects of the neck it is gathered into loose folds upon the retinacula. These folds or plications are best marked along the line of synovial reflection, and do not reach as far as the femoral head. At its acetabular end the synovial membrane is prolonged from the inside of the capsule to the outer non-articular surface of the cotyloid and transverse ligaments, upon which it is continued as a lining for their acetabular or articular surfaces, and further, it provides a covering for the fat at the bottom Pubo-capsular ligament Fig. 222.—Dissection of the Hip-Joint from the front.