THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 792 Deep Palmar Arch (arcus volaris profundus, Fig. 564).—The deep palmar arch extends from the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger to the upper end of the first interosseous space, and is formed by the terminal part of the radial artery, anastomosing with the deep branch of the ulnar. It is from half to three quarters of an inch (12 to 18 mm.) above the level of the superficial palmar arch, and it lies deeply in the palm, in contact with the bases of the metacarpal bones and ligaments and on the origin of the interossei muscles ; it is under cover of the flexor tendons and their synovial sheaths. Branches.—(a) The superior perforating (rami perforantes); three small arteries which pass backwards through the inner three interosseous spaces, and between the origins of the dorsal interossei muscles. They anastomose on the dorsum of the hand with the dorsal interosseous arteries. (b) Small irregular recurrent branches pass upwards and unite with the anterior carpal arch. (c) The articular to the adjacent articulations. (d) The palmar interosseous arteries (aa. metacarpese volares) are three vessels which pass downwards on the interosseous muscles of the three inner spaces and under cover of the flexor tendons. They terminate by anastomosing with the palmar digital arteries just before the latter vessels divide into collateral branches. (e) The communicating, a small irregular branch which passes inwards between the flexor tendons and the short muscles of the little finger to anastomose with the innermost palmar digital artery. BRANCHES OF THE DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA. The branches given off from the thoracic portion of the descending aorta are distributed chiefly to the walls of the thorax and to tlie thoracic viscera. They contribute also to the supply of the spinal cord and its membranes, and to that of the vertebral column and of the upper part of the abdominal wall. The branches, which are numerous and for the most part arranged in pairs, are as follows:— /'Intercostal. ABronchiab T, • . 1 I Subcostal. „. , Oesophageal. Parietal.-; y^. , .. Visceral. < ■ , j Diaphragmatic. | pericardial. \_The vas aberrans. \^ Mediastinal. Parietal Branches of the Descending Thoracic Aorta. 1. Intercostal Arteries (a. intercostales). — There are nine pairs of aortic intercostal arteries. They usually arise separately, though not uncommonly a pair may take origin by a common trunk from the back of the aorta, and are distributed to the lower nine intercostal spaces, to the spinal column, to the contents of the spinal canal, and to the muscles and skin of the back. The third, fourth, and fifth on each side also give branches to the mammary gland. The arteries of opposite sides closely correspond, but, since the aorta in the thoracic region lies on the left side of the spinal column, the right intercostal arteries cross the front of the vertebral column, behind the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the vena azygos major, and are longer than the left arteries. In other respects the course of all the aortic intercostal arteries is almost identical. They run outwards and backwards on the sides of the bodies of the vertebra; to the inter- costal spaces, passing behind the pleura, and being crossed, opposite the heads of the ribs, by the sympathetic cord. The lower arteries are also crossed by the splanchnic nerves, and those on the left side are in addition crossed by the smaller azygos veins. On reaching an intercostal space each artery runs upwards, some- times behind, sometimes in front of the corresponding intercostal nerve, to the upper border of the space, along which it is continued in the subcostal groove. It Kes at first between the pleura and the posterior intercostal membrane, immediately below the intercostal nerve; it then pierces the intercostal membrane, and runs between it and the external intercostal muscle as far as the angle of the rib, beyond which it is continued forward between the internal and external intercostal