THE CEEVICAL VEETEBEiE. 77 process may, in rare cases, articulate with a projecting process (paroccipital) from the under surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone (see p. 109). An upward extension from the median part of the anterior arch, due probably to an ossification of the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament, may articulate with the anterior surface of the summit of the odontoid process of the axis. Allen has noticed the articulation of the superior border of the posterior arch with the posterior border of the foramen magnum. Cases of partial or complete fusion of the atlas with the occipital bone are not uncommon (see p. 109). Second Cervical Vertebra, Axis, or Epistropheus.—This is characterised by the presence of the tooth-like odontoid process (dens) which projects upwards from the superior surface of the body. Slightly constricted where it joins the body, the odontoid process tapers to a blunt point superiorly, on the sides of which there are surfaces for the attachment of the odontoid or check ligaments. When the atlas and axis are articulated together this process lies behind the anterior arch of the atlas, and displays on its anterior surface an oval or circular facet which articu- lates with that on the posterior surface of the anterior arch of the atlas. On the Odontoid process Groove for transverse ligament Fia. 58.—Axis from Behind and Above. Fig. 59.—Axis from the Left Side. posterior aspect of the neck of the odontoid process there is a shallow groove which receives the transverse ligament which holds it in position. The anterior surface of the body has a raised triangular surface, which ends superiorly in a ridge passing upwards_^ to the neck of the odontoid process. The pedicles are concealed above by the superior articular processes; inferiorly, they are deeply grooved. The laminae—prismatic on section—are thick and strong, ending in a stout, broad, and bifid spinous process, the under surface of which is deeply grooved, whilst its sides meet superiorly in a ridge. Placed over the pedicles and the anterior root of the transverse processes are the superior articular surfaces. These are more or less circular in shape, slightly convex from before backwards, flat from side to side, and have a direction upwards and a little outwards. They are channelled inferiorly by the vertebrarterial foramina which turn outwards beneath them. The grooves by which the second cervical nerves leave the neural canal cross the laminae immediately behind the superior articular processes. The inferior articular processes agree in their form and position with those of the remaining members of the series, and are placed behind the inferior intervertebral notches. The transverse process is markedly down - turned, with a single pointed extremity. Variations.—In some instances the summit of the odontoid process articulates with a promi- nent tubercle on the anterior border of the foramen magnum (third occipital condyle, see p. 109). Bennet (Trans. Path. Soc. Dublin, vol. vii.) records a case in which the odontoid process was double, due to the persistence of the primitive condition in which it is developed from two centres. Occasionally the odontoid process fails to be united with the body of tlie axis, forming an OS odontoideum comparable to that met with in the crocodilia (Giacomini, Romiti, and Turner). The vertebrarterial foramen is not infrequently incomplete, owing to the imperfect ossification of the posterior root of the transverse process.