464 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. into the otlier. In opposition to this view, Klinioff holds that the middle peduncle is composed solely of centripetal or afferent fibres, which pass from the nucleus pontis to the cerebellum. Some of these fibres are crossed and others direct. Certain of the transverse fibres of the pons turn backwards and enter the dorsal or tegmental part of the pons, but the precise connexions of these are doubtful. Corpus Trapezoides.—This name is applied to a gi-oup of transverse fibres which traverse the lower part of the pons. They are quite distinct from those which have been just described as entering the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, and they lie in the boundary between the dorsal and ventral parts of the pons, but encroaching considerably into the ground of the former. They arise from the cells of the terminal nucleus of the cochlear division of the auditory nerve, and con- stitute a tract which establishes certain central connexions for that nerve. They will be more fully described when we treat of the cerebral connexions of the auditory nerve. Dorsal or Tegmental Part of the Pons (pars dorsalis pontis).—On the dorsal surface of tlie tegmental part of tlie pons there is spread a thick layer of gray matter, covered by ependyma, which forms the floor of the upper or pontine part of the fourth ventricle. Beneath this the mesial raphe of the medulla is continued up into the pons, so as to divide its tegmental part into two symmetrical halves. In the lower part of the pons, immediately beyond the medulla, the restiform body is placed on the outer side of the tegmental part. In transverse sections through the pons it appears as a large, massive oval strand of fibres which gradually inclines backwards into the cerebellum, and thus leaves the pons. Between the restiform body and the median raphe the tegmental part of the pons is composed of formatio reticularis, continuous with the same material in the medulla. Thus arcuate or transverse fibres, curving in towards the raphe, and also longitudinal fibres, are seen breaking through a mass of gray matter which occupies the inter- stices of the intersecting fibres. To the naked eye the formatio reticularis presents a uniform gray appearance, but its constituent parts are revealed by low powers of the microscope in properly-stained and prepared specimens. Embedded in this formatio reticularis are various clumps of compact gray matter and certain definite strands of fibres. These we shall describe as we pass from the restiform body inwards towards the median raphe. (1) Spinal root of the trigeminal nerve and the substantia gelatinosa Rolandi.— Close to the inner side of the restiform body, but separated from it by the vesti- bular root of the auditory nerve as it passes backwards through the pons, is seen a large crescentic group of coarse transversely-divided bundles of fibres. This is the spinal root of the fifth nerve, and applied to its inner concave side is a small mass of gray matter, which is the direct continuation upwards of the substantia gelatinosa Eolandi. (2) The nucleus of the facial or seventh nerve comes next. It is sunk deeply in the tegmental part of the pons and lies close to the transverse fibres of the corpus trapezoides. It is a conspicuous, obliquely placed, ovoid clump of gray matter. Erom its outer and dorsal aspect the root-fibres of the facial nerve stream backwards and inwards towards the gray matter on the floor of the fourth ventricle. Passmg forwards between this nucleus and the substantia Rolandi a solid nerve-bundle may be observed. This is the facial nerve, traversing the pons towards iJiS place of emergence from the brain. (3) Immediately internal to the facial nucleus, but ])laced more deeply in the tegmental part of the pons, is the superior olivary nucleus (nucleus olivaris superior). It lies in a bay formed for it by the transverse fibres of the corpus trapezoides. These fibres curve round its ventral aspect, and many of them may be observed pene- trating into its substance. In man it is a very small mass of gray matter, and presents little resemblance to the inferior olivary nucleus, except in the size and shape of its constituent cells. In sections through the part of the pons where it attains its greatest size, it appears in the form of two, or it may be three, small isolated clumps of gray matter. It is intimately connected with tlie trapezial fibres, many of which end in it, whilst others take origin within it.