098 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. its complete description until the various organs, with their special peritoneal relations, have l)een separately considered. Nevertheless, it will he necessary to give here a general account of the disposition of the memhrane, and to refer to the three varieties of folds which it forms in passing from organ to organ, or from these to the abdominal wall. The peritoneum (tunica serosa) is tlie serous sac which lines tlie al)doniin;il cavity and invests most of the ahdominal viscera, to a greater or less degree. Like the pleurje, the tunica vaginalis of tlie testicle, and other serous sacs, its walls are composed of a thin layer of fil)r(>us tissue, containing numei'ous elastic fibres, and covered over on the side turned towards the cavity of the sac by flattened endothelial cells. Like tliem, too, the peiitoneum in the male is a completely closed bag, but in the female this is not the case, for the abdominal end of each Fallopian tube opens into the sac, whilst the other end of that tul)e communicates with the uterus, and thus, indirectly, witli the exterior. Normally the memljrane secretes only sufficient moisture to lubricate its surface, otherwise the sac is perfectly empty, and its opposing walls lie in contact, thus practically obliterating its cavity. Tlie use of these lu])ricated and highly polished serous linings, found in the aljdomen and certain other cavities, is to I'acilitate, ami render, as far as possil)le, frictionless, the luovements of tlie contained viscera during any changes in size or form which they or their con- taining cavity may undergo. As a result of this arrangement, not- withstanding the tonic pressure of the abdominal wall on its contents, the stoma,ch and in- testines are free to move with the greatest ease and the least friction, when any change takes place either in the organs them- Small sac Foramen of Winsloiv, with arrow passod tlirmigli it — Pancreas Thirrl part ot dnorlenum selves or in their surroundings. Transverse colon The ineseiiterv litems - madder Pouch of DoiiKlas The peritoneum is a thin glistening membrane, which may aptly be compared to a coat of varnish applied to the inner aspect of the abdominal walls, and to the surface of the contained viscera, except where these are directly ap- plied to the walls or to one another. It forms thnnighout its entire extent a continuous and distinct sheet, but it is united so inti- mately to the viscera, and follows the irregularities of their walls sf) closely, that it api)ears at first sight to be a su})erficial layer of these walls, rather than a separate membrane. Outside the ])eri- toneuni lies tlie sul)peritoneal con- nective tissue—already described —whicli connects it more or less intimately to the fascial lining of the abdominal walls, and to the abdominal viscera. If we trace tlie peritoneum as a continuous layer, , eginniug in front we find that it lines the dee]) surface of the anterior abdominal wall, and is continued upwards to the under surface of the diaphragm (Fig. 672), the greater portion of whicli it covers. From the })osterior part of tlie diaphragm it is reflected or carried forwards on to the upper surface of the liver, and tlien down over the 672.—IJIACHAMMATIC MksIAL SfX'TION OK FeMALK BoUY. to show the iH^rit.oneuni on vertical tracing. Tlie great sac of the jjeritoneum is black and i.s represented as being niucli larger than in natni'e ; the small .sac is very darkly sliaded ; tlie peritoneniii on section is .shown as a white line : and a white arrow is passed through the foramen of Winslow from the great, into the small .sac.