142 OSTEOLOGY. The proximal end of this furrow remains permanently as the mylo-hyoid groove. The part of the cartilage between the tympanic ring and the jaw becomes converted into fibrous tissue, and persists in the adult as the so-called internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillarj^ articulation, its proximal end through the Glaserian fissure being con- tinuous with the slender process of the malleus. The part which is applied to the inner surface of the lower jaw disappears. In the tissue overlying the cartilage ossification begins by several centres as early as the sixth or seventh week of foetal life, in this respect resembling the clavicle, by which it is alone preceded. The dentary or basal centre forms the outer wall and lower border. With this is united the splenial portion, which appears somewhat later, forming the inner table from near the symphysis back- wards towards the opening of the inferior dental canal where it terminates in the lingula. By the union of these two parts a groove is formed, which ultimately becomes covered in, and in which the inferior dental nerve and vessels are lodged. As has been already stated, the part of the body between the symphysis and the mental foramen is regarded as directly developed from the fore part of the Meckelian cartilage. As will have been gathered from tlie above description, the upper part of the ramus and its processes have no connexion with Meckel's cartilage. The condyle and the coronoid process are each developed from a separate centre, preceded by a cartilaginous matrix. These several centres are all united about the fourth month. At birth the lower jaw consists of two lateral halves united at the symphysis by fibrous tissue; towards the end of the first or during the second year osseous union between the two halves is complete. In infancy the jaw is shallow and the rami proportionately small; further, owing to the obliquity of the ramus the angle is large, averaging about 150°. The mental foramen lies near the lower border of the bone. Coinci- dent with the erup- tion of the teeth and the use of the jaw in mastication, the rami rapidly inci'ease in size, and the angle becomes more acute. After the completion of the permanent dentition it ap- proaches more nearly a right angle varying from 110° to 120°. The body of the bone is stout and deep, and the mental foramen usually lies midway between the upper and lower borders. As age advances owing to the loss of the teeth and the consequent shrinkage and absorption of the alveolar border of the bone, the body becomes narrow and attenuated, and the mental foramen now lies close to the xipper border. At the same time the angle opens out again (130° to 140°), in this respect resembling the infantile condition. Fig. 112.—Lower Jaw at Bieth. A, As seen from above ; B, Outer side ; C, Inner side. Mental foramen ; b. Inferior dental canal; c, Lingula; d, Sockets for the dental sacs. The Hyoid Bone. The hyoid bone (os hyoideum), or os linguae, though placed in the neck, is developmentally connected vfith the skull. It lies between the mandible above and the larynx below, and is connected with the root of the tongue. Of U-shaped form, as its name implies (Greek v and etSos, like), it consists in the adult of a central part, or body, with which on either side are united two long processes which extend iiackwards—the great cornua. At the point where these are ossified with the body, the lesser cornua, which project upwards and backwards, are placed.