GENEEAL EMBEYOLOGY. 36 of the body and tlie great eornu of the hyoid bone on its own side. Its blood- vessel, the third cephalic aortic arch, becomes the lower part of the stem of the internal carotid artery. The fourth and fifth visceral arches also enter into the formation of the neck, but their exact limits in the adult cannot be deiined. Of the upper sections of their cartilaginous bars no ti'ace remains in the adult, but their lower portions are believed to enter into the formation of the thyroid cartilage of the larynx. The blood-vessel of the fourth arch on the right side becomes part of the right suli- clavian artery, that on the left side is converted into the arch of the aorta. The vessels of the fifth arches form portions of the pulmonary arteries, and that on the left side forms also the ductus arteriosus. Further Development of the Ventral Wall of the Fore-gut in the region of the Furcula.—The sinus arcuatus whicli surrounds the furcula disappears to a great extent as development proceeds, but certain parts of it remain and are recog- nisable in the adult. The anterior portion immediately in front of the furcula is divided into two parts as the lower ends of the second and third arches of the two sides converge and fuse in the ventral wall of the pharyngeal portion of the foregut; the middle portion of the sinus, in front of the tranverse bar formed by this fusion, persists in the adult as the foramen cpecum of the tongue, and at a very early period a diverticulum grows backwards from it in the floor of the pharynx, dorsal to the cartilage bars which form the hyoid bone, but ventral to the rudi- ments of the thyroid cartilage. This diverticulum is the thyro-glossal duct. As soon as it reaches the level of the fourth visceral clefts it enlarges, unites with the diverticula from those clefts which form the lateral lol)es of the thyroid body, and is itself converted into the isthmus of the thyroid, its pyramidal process and the thyro-glossal duct or the fibrous cord into which that duct becomes converted in the adult. Occasionally the thyro-glossal duct is not wholly transformed into a fibrous cord but portions of it remain in the foim of isolated vesicles, lined with columnar or cubical epithelium, or as cords of cells, and these occasionally undergo abnormal development, forming tiunours at the base of the tongue or in the upper part of the neck. Tlie portion of the sinus arcuatus which lies behind the conjoined lower extremities of the second and third arches of opposite sides, and in front of the furcula, persists in a modified form in the adult, and is recognisable as glosso- epiglottidean pouches or valleculae at the base of the tongue. The furcula and the groove in the ventral wall of the fore-gut, which it embraces antero-laterally, are both of considerable importance. The anterior part of the furcula is situated in the ventral wall of the pharyngeal portion of the fore-gut, but its backward prolongations and the furrow between them lie in what may be termed the intermediate part of the fore-gut, that is, in that part of the fore-gut which intervenes between the pharyngeal and stomach -regions. Gradually the furrow deepens, and its posterior extremity dilates on each side. Afterwards the margins of the furrow coalesce from behind forwards, and in this manner the cavity of tlie furrow is separated from the fore-gut, its walls are converted into the trachea and the lower part of the larynx, wliilst the diverticula which are projected from its posterior end, form the rudiments of the bronchi. The fusion of the margin of the furrow ceases a short distance behind its anterior extremity, which latter persists as the superior aperture of the larynx. The anterior part of the furcula, which bounds tliis aperture in front, becomes the epiglottis, and its lateral extensions, which form tlie margins of the aperture, are converted into the aryteno- epiglottidean folds in the sxibstance of which the arytenoid cartilages and the cartilages of Santorini and "VVrisberg (cuneiform cartilages) are formed. DEVELOPMENT OE THE MOUTH AND THE NOSE. The nose is formed entirely from the stomatodccum. The mouth has a doultle origin ; the roof and fore part, including the teeth, are developed from the stomato- diL'um, whilst the lloor and the tongue are developed from the pharyngeal portion of the fore-gut.