OSTEOLOGY. 160 (tuberculum pharyngeum), to which the pharyngeal aponeurosis, together with the central part of the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament, is attached. It should be noted, that when the atlas is in position the pharyngeal tubercle lies in line with the tubercle on the anterior arch of that bone. Curving outwards and backwards from the pharyngeal tubercle, on either side, is an irregular ridge (crista muscularis), in front and behind which are attached the rectus capitis anticus major and minor muscles. On either side of the basioccipital, in front, there is an irregular opening of variable size; this is placed between the root of the pterygoid process anteriorly, the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone externally, and the outer edge of the basioccipital and basisphenoid internally. It is called the foramen lacerum medium. Opening into it in front, just external to the pterygoid tubercle, is the Vidian canal, whilst in correspondence with the apex of the petrous temporal the large orifice of the carotid canal may be seen entering it behind and from the outer side. In the recent condition the lower part of the foramen lacerum is occupied by fibro-cartilage, over the upper surface of which the internal carotid artery and great superficial petrosal nerve pass to reach their respective foramina, whilst a small meningeal branch of the ascending pharyngeal occasionally enters the cranium through it. Leading outwards from the foramen lacerum in the direction of the alar spine of the sphenoid is the spheno-petrosal fissure, which lies at the bottom of the sulcus tubae auditivae, and disappears from view within the bony Eustachian canal. Passing backwards from the foramen lacerum there is a fissure between the outer side of the basioccipital and the posterior and inner border of the petrous part of the temporal bone. This, which is called the petro- occipital fissure (fissura petro-occipitalis) opens posteriorly into the jugular foramen. In the recent condition the fissure is filled up with cartilage. The under surface of the petrous bone included between these two fissures is rough and irregular, and affords attachments near its apex to two small muscles, the levator palati and the tensor tympani. Immediately behind the alar spine the petrous temporal is pierced by a circular hole, the inferior opening of the carotid canal (canalis caroticus). This passes upwards, and then turns inwards and forwards towards the apex of the bone, where it may again be seen opening into the outer and upper side of the foramen lacerum. Externally the wall of the vertical part of this canal is usually very thin, and separates it from the cavity of the tympanum, as may be seen by holding the skull up to the light and looking into the external auditory meatus (p. 116). The carotid canal transmits the internal carotid artery, together with the sympathetic plexus around it. It is noteworthy that the two carotid canals lie in line with the anterior edges of the two external auditory meatuses. The jugular foramen is an opening of irregular shape and size placed between the petrous temporal in front and the jugular process of the occipital bone behind. The former is excavated into a hollow called the jugular fossa, which forms a roof to the upper and outer part of the space, whilst the latter, by a curved edge, either rounded or sharp, constitutes its posterior border. There is often considerable difference in the size of the jugular foramina; that on the right side (with the skull in its normal position) is usually the larger. The foramen is occasionally sub- divided into two by spicules of bone which bridge across it. Lodged within the fossa is the sinus of the internal jugular vein, in front of which the inferior petrosal sinus passes down to join the internal jugular vein below the foramen. Effect- ing an exit between the two veins, in order from before backwards, are the glosso- pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves. Small meningeal branches from the ascending pharyngeal and occipital arteries also enter the foramen. The two jugular foramina lie in line with a line drawn through the centres of the two external auditory meatuses. Following the direction of a line connecting the alar spine of the sphenoid and the mastoid process of the temporal, and placed immedi- ately external to the apertures of the carotid canal and jugular foramen, is the vaginal process of the tympanic plate of the temporal bone, the edge of which is sharp and thin, and serves to separate the under surface of the petrous temporal from the non-articular part of the glenoid fossa. Springing from this crest im- mediately external to the jugular fossa, and in line with the middle of the external auditory meatus, is the styloid process (processus styloideum) of the temporal bon6