THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEIM. 1076 The inferior surface of the body, which, like tlie superior, is, as a rule, widest towards its left end, looks downwards and sliglitly forwards. It is completely covei'ed by peritoneum, viz. the descending layer, derived from the transverse mesocolon (Fig. 724). Jt lies in contact with the duodeno-jejunal fle.\urc towards its right end, with the splenic flexure of the colon near its left end, and with a mass of small intestine (jejunum, which is always found ])acked in beneath it) in the rest of its extent. The posterior surface of the body looks directly backwards, and is entirely destitute of peritoneuu]. It is connected by areolar tissue to the posterior abdominal wall with the organs lying upon it. Fi'om right to left these are : the aorta with the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, the left renal vessels, the left suprarenal capsule, and the left Top of Rmall sac Uiffrior vena cava Lesser oiiientuiii (cut) Right lateral ligament of liver Left lateral ligament of liver (Ksojihagpal opening in diaplirogni Gastro-jilirenic ligament Correspond.^ to 'uncovered area' ,of stomach Gastro-si)lenic omentum (cut) Transverse colon crossni!; duodenum / Head of panoreas Great omentum (cut) j Part of small sac I'lueno-colic ligament Left end of transverse mesocolon Splenic flexure of colon Transverse mesocolon (cut) Koot of mesentery (cut) Fig. 724.—Thk Pkiutone.vl Rel.\tions of the DuoDENnii, Paxckeas, Spleen, Kidxets, etc. kidney. In addition, the splenic artery riuis its tortuous course to the left behind the upper border of the j^ancreas, whilst the splenic vein runs, behind the gland, at a lower level than the artery. The three surfaces of tlie body of the pancreas are separated by three borders. The anterior border is the most prominent, and gives attachment to the transverse mesocolon (Fig. 724). It is, as it were, S(]ueezed forward, by the pressure of the stomach above and the small intestine below, into the interval between these two sets of viscera, thus follow- ing the line of least resistance (Cunningham). Towards the neck this border is no longer proniincnt, but becomes rounded ott', so that here the upper ;uid lower surfaces are confluent. The ceeliac axis projects over the upper border, and sends its hepatic branch to the right, resting upon it, wdiilst the splenic artery runs to the left boliiud it (Fig. 72."'). The inferior border calls for no special description. The tail of the pancreas is the somewhat pointed left-end of the body, which is in