THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 558 zoiifcal ridge which marks the deep surface ut' the occipital boue. Beyond this, ou each side, it is Hxed to the postero-inferior border of the parietal bone, and then forwards along the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Erom the internal occipital protulierance to the postero-inferior angle of the parietal bone this border encloses the lateral blood sinus, whilst along the upper border of the petrous bone it encloses the superior petrosal sinus. The anterior border of the tentorium is sharp, free, and concave, and forms with the dorsum sellae an oval opening shaped posteriorly like a pointed arch. This opening receives the name of the incisura tentorii, and within it is placed the mesencephalon, or the stalk of connexion between the parts which lie in the posterior cranial fossa and the cerebrum. Beyond the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone the two margins of the tentorium cross each other like the limbs of the letter X; the free margin is continued forwards, to be attached to the anterior clinoid process, whilst the attached border proceeds inwards, to be fixed to the posterior clinoid process. The falx cerebelli is a small, sickle-shaped process of dura mater placed below the tentorium, which projects forwards in the mesial plane from the internal occi- pital crest. It occupies the notch which separates the two hemispheres of the ceyebellum posteriorly. Inferiorly it bifurcates into two small diverging ridges which gradually fade away as they are traced forwards on either side of the foramen magnum. The diaphragma sellae is a small circular fold of dura mater which forms a roof for the pituitary fossa. A small opening is left in its centre for the transmission of the infundibulum. Spinal Dura Mater (dura mater spinalis).—In the spinal canal the dura mater forms a tube which encloses the spinal cord, and which extends from the foramen magnum above to the level of the second or third piece of the sacrum below. It is very loosely applied to. the spinal cord and the nerve-roots which form the Cauda equina; in other words, it is very capacious in comparison with the volume of its contents. Moreover, its calibre is not uniform. In the cervical and lumbar regions it is considerably wider than in the dorsal region, whilst in the sacral canal it rapidly contracts, and finally ends by blending with the filum terminale externum, the chief bulk of which it forms. At the upper end of the spinal canal the spinal dura mater is firmly fixed to the third cervical vertebra, to the axis vertebra, and around the margin of the foramen magnum. In the sacral canal the filum terminale externum, with which it blends, extends downwards to the back of the coccyx, to the periosteum of which it is fixed. The lower end of the tube is thus securely anchored and held in its place. Within the cranial cavity the dura mater is closely adherent to the hones, and forms for them an internal periosteum. As it is followed into the spinal canal its two constituent layers separate. The inner layer is carried downwards as the long cylindrical tube which encloses the spinal cord. The outer layer, which is much thinner, becomes continuous behind and on each side of the foramen magnum with the periosteum on the exterior of the cranium, whilst in front it is prolonged downwards into the vertebral canal in connexion with the periosteum and liga- ments on the anterior wall of the canal. The spinal dura mater, therefore, corresponds to the inner layer of the cranial dura mater, and to it alone. It is separated from the walls of the spinal canal by an interval, the epidural space, which is occupied by soft fat and a plexus of thin- walled veins. In connexion with the spinal dura mater there are no blood-sinuses such as are present in the cranial cavity, but it should be noted that the veins in the epidural space, placed as they are between the jjeriosteum of the sj^inal canal and tube of dura mater, occuj^y the same morphological plane as the cranial blood-sinuses. Another feature wliich serves to distinguish the spinal dura mater from tlie cranial dura mater consists in the fact that it gives off from its deep surface no partitions or septa. The cylindrical tube of spinal dura mater does not lie absolutely free within the vertebral canal. Its attachments, however, are of such a character that they in no way interfere with the free movement of the vertebral column. On either side the spinal nerve-roots, as they pierce the dura mater, carry with them into the intervertebral foramina tubular sheaths of the membrane, whilst in front loose fibrous prolongations—more numerous above and below than in the dorsal region—connect the tube of dura mater to the posterior common ligament of the vertebral column. No connexion of any kind exists between the dura mater and the posterior wall of the spinal canal.