BEANCHES OF THE ASCENDING AORTA. 755 Visceral. Parietal. Unpaired. Paired. 1 Unpaired. Paired. Coeliac axis Superior mesen- teric Inferior mesen- teric i Suprarenal Renal Spermatic or ovarian Middle sacral Inferior phrenic Lumbar (four pairs) Common iliac BEANCHES OF THE ASCENDING AORTA. Coronary Arteries. The coronary arteries are two in number, a right and a left; they are distributed almost entirely to the heart, but give also some small branches to the roots of the great vessels, and to the pericardium (Figs. 545, 546, and 549). The right coronary artery (a. coronaria dextra) springs from the anterior sinus of Valsalva. It runs forwards, between the root of the pulmonary artery and the right auricular appendix, to the auriculo-ventricular sulcus, in which it passes to the right, and then, turning round the margin of the heart, is continued to the left as far as the posterior end of the inferior interventricular sulcus, where it ends by dividing into two terminal branches. It is accompanied by branches from the cardiac plexus, and is in relation with the right coronary vein. Branches.^—^Of the two terminal branches, one, the transverse (ramus circumflexus), is of small size ; it is simply the continuation of the main trunk which runs farther to the left to anastomose with the transverse branch of the left coronary artery. The other, the interventricular (ramus descendens), is much larger than the transverse branch. It runs forwards in the inferior interventricular sulcus, supplies both ventricles, and anastomoses, at the apex of the heart, with the interventricular bi-anch of the left coronary artery. In addition to the terminal branches small aortic and pulmonary twigs are distributed to the roots of the aorta and pulmonary artery respectively. A right auricular branch passes upwards on the anterior surface of the right auricle, between it and the ascending aorta; one or more preventricular branches, of small size, descend on the anterior surface of the right ventricle; a branch of larger size, the marginal artery, descends along the right margin and gives branches to both surfaces of the right ventricle. The left coronary artery (a. coronaria sinistra) arioes from the left posterior sinus of Valsalva. In its course and distribution it resembles in many respects the right coronary artery, the chief difference being that it divides much sooner into its two terminal branches ; the trunk of the artery is therefore correspondingly short. From its origin it runs forwards between the root of the pulmonary artery and the left auricular appendix, and, reaching the auriculo-ventricular sulcus at the upper end of the anterior interventricular groove, divides immediately into trans- verse and interventricular terminal branches. Branches.—The transverse terminal branch (ramus circumflexus) runs to the left margin of the heart, and there turns to the inferior surface where it comes into relation with the coronary sinus; it ends by anastomosing with the transverse branch of the right coronary artery. It supplies the left auricle, the left margin of the heart, and the posterior part of the lower surface of the left ventricle. The interventricular terminal branch (ramus descendens anterior) passes down the anterior interventricular sulcus to the apex of the heart, where it anastomoses with the interventricular branch from the right coronary; it supplies both ventricles, and is accom- panied by cardiac nerves and by the great cardiac vein. A left auricular branch, or branches of small size, pass to the wall of the left auricle, and small aortic and pulmonary branches are also given to the roots of the aorta and pulmonary arteVy. BEANCHES OF THE AECH OF THE AOETA. The branches which arise from the arch of the aorta supply the head and neck, the upper extremities, and part of the body wall. They are three in number, viz. the innominate, the left common carotid, and