THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 748 Weight.—The average weight of the heart in the male adult is 11 ounces (310 grms.), and in the female adult 9 ounces (255 grms.) ; but the weight varies greatly, always, however, in definite relation to the weight of the body, the relative proportions changing at diff'erent periods of life. Thus at birth the heart weighs 13^ drachms (24 grms.), and its relation to the body weight is as 1 to 130, whilst in the adult the relative proportion is as 1 to 205. The heart is said to rapidly increa.se in weight up to the seventh year, then more slowly up to the age of puberty, when a second acceleration sets in; but after the attainment of adult life the increase, which continues till the seventieth year, is very gradual. The above changes afl'ect the whole heart, but the several parts also vary in their relation to each other at different periods of life. During foetal life the right auricle is heavier than the left; in the first month after birth the two become equal, and at the second year the right again begins to preponderate, and it is heavier than the left during the remainder of life. In the latter part of foetal life the two ventricles are equal; after birth the left grows more rapidly than the right, until, at the end of the second year, a position of stability is gained, when the right is to the left as 1 to 2, and this proportion is maintained until death. Capacity.—During life the cajDacity of the ventricles is probably the same, and each is capable of containing about four ounces of blood, whilst the auricles are a little less capacious. After death the ca^'ity of the right ventricle appears larger than that of the left. Vascular Supply of the Heart.—The walls of the heart are supplied by the coronary arteries (p. 755), the branches of which pass through the interstitial tissue to all parts of the muscular substance and to the sub-endocardial and sub-epicardial tissues; the endocardium and the valves are devoid of vessels. The capillaries, which are numerous, form a close-meshed network around the muscTilar fibres. Sometimes the valves contain a few muscular fibres, and in these cases they also receive some minute vessels. The majority of the veins of the heart end in the coronary sinus, which opens into the lower part of the right auricle ; some few very small veins, how- ever, open directly into the right auricle, and others are said to end in the left auricle, and in the cavities of the ventricles. Lymphatics of the Heart.—Lymphatic vessels are freely distributed throughout the whole substance of the heart, but they are most numerous in the sub-endocardial and the sub-pericardial tissues, and the vessels which lie in the latter situation communicate through stomata with the pericardial cavity. The smaller lymphatic vessels accompany the blood-vessels; ultimately they converge to two main trunks—an anterior and an inferior—which lie respectively in the anterior and the inferior interventricular sulci. Having collected lymph from the ventricles, these vessels pass to the base of the heart, where they receive additional tributaries from the auricles ; after passing b}' the roots of the great arteries, they terminate in the glands which lie round the bifurcation of the trachea. Nerves of the Heart.—The heart receives its nerves from the superficial and deep cardiac 23lexuses which lie beneath the arch of the aorta, and through them it is connected with the vagus, the spinal accessory (through the vagus), and the sympathetic nerves. After leaving the plexuses many of the nerve fibres enter the walls of the auricles, and anastomose together in the sub-epicardial tissue, forming a plexus in which many ganglion cells are embedded, especially near the terminations of the inferior vena cava and the pulmonary veins. From the sub-epi- cardial auricular plexus, nerve filaments, on which nerve ganglion cells have been found, pass into the substance of the auricular walls. Other fibres from the cardiac plexuses accompany the coronary arteries to the ventricles, and upon these also ganglion cells are found in the region immediately below the auriculo-ventricular sulcus. The nerve fibres which issue from the ganglionated plexuses of the heart are non-meduUated. They form fine plexuses round the muscle fibres, and they terminate either in fine fibrils on the surfaces of the muscle fibres, or in nodulated ends which lie in contact with the muscle cells. THE PERICARDIUM. The pericardium is a fibro-serous sac which surrounds the heart. It hes in the middle mediastinum, and is attached below to the diaphragm, and above and beliiud to the roots of the great vessels. Anteriorly and posteriorly it is to a great extent free; laterally it is in close apposition with the pleural sacs. The fibrous pericardium is a strong fibrous sac of conical form; its base is attached to the central tendon and to a part of the muscular substance of the diaphragm, and it is pierced by the inferior vena cava. At its apex it is gradually lost upon the great vessels which enter and emerge from the heart, giving sheaths to the aorta, the two branches of the pulmonary artery, the superior vena cava, the four pulmonary veins, and the hgamentum arteriosum. Its anterior surface forms the posterior boundary of the anterior mediastinum, and it gives attachment, above and below, to the superior and inferior sterno-pericardial ligaments. In the greater part of its extent it is separated from the anterior wall of the thorax by the anterior margins of the lungs and pleural sacs, but it is in direct relation with the left half of the lower portion of the body of the sternum and, in many