THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 826 solid viscera. The coronary sinus receives blood from the veins of tlie walls of the heart alone. General arrangement. — The veins of the body wall and linil)s form two groups—(1) tlie superficial veins; (2) the deep veins. The superficial veins, whicli commence in the capillaries of tlie skin and sub- cutaneous tissues, lie in the superficial fascia, and are very numerous. They frequently anastomose with one another, and they also communicate with the deep veins, in wliieh, after piercing the deep fascia, they terminate. They may or may not accompany superficial arteries. The deep veins accompany arteries, and are known as vencc comites. The large arteries have only one accompanying vein, but with the medium-sized and small arteries there are usually two ven.e comites, which freely anastomose with each other l)y short transverse branches of communication. Visceral veins usually accompany tlie arteries whicli supply viscera in tlie head, neck, thorax, and al)domen. As a rule there is only one vein with each visceral artery, and, with the exception of those which enter into the formation of the portal system, they terminate in the deep systemic veins. THE CORONARY SINUS AND THE VEINS OF THE HEART. Tlie coronary sinus (sinus coronarius, Fig. 545) is a short, init relatively wide, venpus trunk which receives the majority of the veins of the heart. It lies in the inferior portion of the auriculo-ventricular sulcus, between the left auricle and the left ventricle, and it is covered superficially l)y some of the muscular fil)res of the auricle. It terminates in tlie lower and back part of the right auricle, between the orifice of the inferior vena cava above and on the right, and the right auriculo-ventricular orilice below and on the left; an imperfect valve, consisting of one or two cusps, called the valve of Thebesius, is situated at the opening of the sinus into the auricle. The apertures of all the tributaries of the coronary sinus, except that of the oljlirpie vein, are provided with valves, which, however, are frequently incompetent. Tributaries.—(1) The great cardiac or left coronary vein (v. cordis magna, Fig. 546) commences at the apex of the heart. It ascends in the anterior interventricular sulcus to the ain'iculo-ventricular groove ; it then turns to the left, and, passing round the left margin of the heart into the postero-inferior part of the auriculO-ventricular groove, terminates in the left extremity of the coronary sinus. It receives tributaries from the walls of both ventricles and from the wall of the lei^t auricle. It also receives the left marginal vein, which commences at the lower extremity of the left margin of the heart, along which it ascends to its termination. (2) Small cardiac or right coronary vein (v. cordis parva).—This vein is very vari- able ; as a rule it commences at the right margin of the heart in the auriculo-ventricular sulcus, passes to the left, and terminates in the coronary sinus near its right end. It receives tri})utaries from the walls of the right auricle and the right ventricle ; one from the latter, the rii/ht mair/inal i<ein, ascends along the right margin of the heart, and sometimes opens directly into the right auricle. (3) The obliqtue vein of Marshall (v. obliqua atrii sinistri, Fig. 545) is a small venous channel which descends obliquely on the i:)osterior wall of the left auricle and terminates- in the coronary sinus. Its orifice is not provided with a valve. It is of special interest, inasmuch as it represents the left superior vena cava of some other mammals, and is developed from the left duct of Cnvier. (4) The inferior interventricular, inferior cardiac, or middle cardiac vein (v. cordis media), conunenccs at the apex of the heart, and, passing backwards in the inferior interventricular sulcus, terminates in the right end of the coronary sinus. It receives tributaries from the inferior parts of the walls of both ventricles. Veins of the heart which do not end in the coronary sinus. — {a) The anterior- cardiac veins (vv. cordis auteriores) are two or three small vessels which ascend on the anterior wall of the right ventricle to the auriculo-ventricular groove, where tliey cither end separately in the right auricle or terminate in the commencement of the small cardiac vein, (h) The ve-nm lainimoi cordis.—A number of small veins which