1018 THE DTCrESTIVE SYSTEM. The third or inferior portion (]);irs inferior) begins at the right side of the third or fourth hiinhar vertelira. From tliis it first runs more or less transversely to the left across the vena cava (Fig. (iST) for one or two inches, and then passes very obliquely, or even vertically, upwards in front of the aorta and left psoas muscle. Finally, liaving reached the lower surface of the pancreas, it liends forwards, and passes into the jejunum. Owing to the different directions which they take, we can recognise two divisions, a transverse and an ascending terminal, in this portion of tlie duodenum (Fig. 687). In front, it is crossed (aliout the junction of its two divisionsj by tlie superior mesenteric vessels, and also by the root of the mesentery (Fig. 688). On each side of this it is covered by coils of small intestine. Behind, its liorizontal portion lies on the vena cava; its ascending portion on the aorta, the left renal vessels, and the left psoas muscle, all of which separate it from the vertebral colunm. Above, it is closely applied in its whole extent to the heatl of the pancreas. Tlie /eft side of the ascending terminal fart, which is free, lies in contact with some coils of tlie small intestine. Peritoneal relations.—The third portion of the duodenum is covered peri- toneum on its anterior surface throughout, except where it is crossed l)y the superior mesenteric vessels and the root of the mesentery which contains them (Fig. 688). In addition, its ascending terminal portion is also clothed l)y this mem- lirane on its left side; ;uid here are usually found one or two small peritoneal pouches known as the duodenal fossae. Till' attaclniR'nt of tlic root of the inc.seiitL'i-v liegiiis above (|uite close to the duodeiio-jijiiiial flexure, ou the front of the cliiodeiiiuii ; from tins it runs down on the anterior as])ect di' the ascending terminal part, and finally leaves the duodenuni ahout the union of the two di\ isioiis of its third portion. Duodenal Fossae.—Ju the neighboiu-hood of the ascending part of tiic third jjortion of the duodeuuru are found three well-known fossic of the peritoneum which are of some suruical interest; these are the superior and inferior duodenal and the paraduo- denal fossa; (Fig. 689). Other rarer forms are occasionally present. When the ascending terminal part of the duodenum is drawn over to the right, and the angle between its left side and the posterior abdominal wall examined, one oi' "~ two triangular folds of {>eri- toneum will generally be found crossing over this angle from the duodenum to the abdo- minal wall. Each fold has one edge attached to the duodenum, another to the parietal peritoneum at the left of. the duodenum, whilst the third is free, and bounds the opening of a small pouch which lies behind the fold. One of these, the superior duodenal fold, is situated near the ter- mination of the duodenum, with its apex directed up and its free margin down. It sometimes contains between its two layers the termination of the inferior mesenteric vein. Itehiud it lies the superior duodenal fossa, the opening of which looks downwards, and will usually admit the tip of a finger (Kig. 689). The second, known as f/ir inferior duodenal fold, is placed lower down, at the side of the same part of the duodenum. Its free border is directed upwards, as is the mouth of the inferior duodenal fossa, which lies behind it. This latter is larger and more constant than the superior duodenal fossa, and is present in 7-'» per cent of bodies, whilst the superior is present in 50 per cent (Jonnesco). Truiisversc colon Transverse meso- colon Duodennni Superior,- duodenal fossa Interior , duodenal fossa Tlie mesentery (cut) ---t^ Inferior niesenteric vein luftu'ior mesenteric artery Ki(i. 689.—Thk Duouknal K()ss./e .\nd Folds. The transver.se colon and mesocolon liave been thrown up. and tin- mesentery has been turned to the right and cut. The paraduodenal fossa (of Landzert) is situated to the, inner side of the inferior mesenteric vein, between it and tlie ti riniiial ]iart of the duodenum. Ft is not shown in the illustration.