THE ANIMAL CELL. 9 substance). There is also a coarser network, more readily stainable, consisting of chromatin, granular portions of which may also be embedded in the linin. Instead of forming a coarse network the chromatin may be arranged in the form of a con- voluted cord, or as a number of separate filaments, and in certain cases it constitutes a series of loops from which secondaiy branches are projected, the apices of the loops being grouped together at one pole of the nucleus round a clear area known as the " polar field." The nuclear membrane consists of both chromatin and linin. Nucleoli are of two kinds, true and false. A true nucleolus is a small, refractile particle, of spherical outline, embedded in the reticiilum. It stains deeply, and is said to consist of a special modification of the karyoplasm which is called pyrenin. False nucleoli are simply the nodes of the chromatin reticulum. The nucleus is capable of motion ; it has been seen to alter its shape in the living cell, and it undoubtedly plays an active part in the process of cell reproduction. In addition to the nucleus many cells contain one or more small rounded bodies called centrosomes. Possibly they are only condensed portions of the cyto- reticulum. They lie within a clear space which is known as an attraction sphere, fiom which numerous fine lines radiate. Centrosomes become very evident when reproduction commences, but are not so distinct at other times. The attraction sphere also becomes more evident when cell-division commences, and the contained centrosome as well as the radii which project from it appear to play important parts in the reproductive process. Reproduction of Cells.—Cell division or reproduction may take place either— 1. By threct division—amitosis ; 2. By indirect division—mitosis or karyokinesis. In the amitotic or direct form of division the nucleus, and then the cell body, are equatorially constricted, the constrictions deepen until both are completely divided, and so two daughter cells are produced. Apparently the attraction sphere and centrosome play some part in this process, but whether their influence is initiative or directive is unknown. A B c D B F G H J K L Fig. 3.—Cell Division. Successive stages of mitosis or karyokinesis (diagrammatic, modified from Hennegiiy). A, B, C, D, and E illustrate the plieuoinena of the prophase ; F those of the metaphase ; G aud H those of the anaphase ; J, K, and L those of the telophase. Mitosis, the process of indirect division, is by far the most common mode of cell-division. It is a complex process, and the phenomena observable during its progress are classified into four groups: (1) the prophase, (2) the metaphase, (3) the anaphase, and (4) the telophase.