THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 952 prominent fuld, the frenulum epiglottidis f)r middle glosso-epiglottic fold (plica giosso-epiglottica media, Fig. 640), at each .side of which is a wide depression, the vallecula. Two lateral glosso-epig'lottic folds have been described, but these pass from the side of the epiglottis, not to the tongue, but upwards along the wall of the pharynx, upon which they are soon lost; consequently the term pharyngo-epiglottic is more applicable to them. The anterior or oral portion of the dorsum linguae, namely, the part in front of the sulcus termiualis (Fig. 640), is convex, both tVom before backwards and Spinal accessory nerve Digastric muscle Styloliyoid Glosso- ])liaryitge:il nerve Parotid s'laiid 'l'enii)oro- lila\-illary vni. External carotid , artery Styloglossus Ascendin-K jjalatiiie artery Internal pterygoiil Epiglottis - Frenulum \_ ejiiglottidis \ Masseter ' Pharyngeal portion of tongue Fungiform pap Buccinator Internal jugular vein Hypoglossal nerve I iiit(>rnal carotid artery I Pneumogastric nerve Sympathetic Ascending pharyngeal artery Odontoid prooes.s Post-i)liaryngeal lymphatic gland Superior constrictor nuiscle Posterior i)alatine arch Tonsil Pharyngo-epiglottic fold ■ Anterior palatine arch Circunivallate papilla" liaphe of tongue Conical iia]>ilhe l-'ungiform papdl Fig. 640.—Horizont.ai, Sfxtion thhough M(icth and Ph.mivnx at thk Level of thk Tossii.s. Tlie styloj)har3"ngeus, wliicli is shown iiuniediately to tlie inner side of the externiil carotid artery, and tlie prevertebral muscles, are not iinlicated by rei'erencc lines. from side to side in the resting condition of the organ (Fig. Go*?). It nsiially presents also a slight median depression, along tlie centre of which mar l»e seen some indication of a median raphe in the form of an irregular crease, which ends posteriorly near the foramen c;ecnm. The mncous memlmme of this liortion of the d(n-sum is thickly covered with the prominent and numerous papillse (papillae linguales) which give the tongue its most characteristic appearance. On the iiharyugeal ])art of tlie tongue there are also small i)apillary projections of the corium, but the epithelium fills up all the intervals between the ijapilhTP, and, as it were, levels off the surface, so that none are visible to the eye as jjrojectious above the general level. Over the anterior part of the tongue, on the contrary, the projections of the corium are large and ju'omiuent, and the intervals Itetween Ihem, while they are covered, yet are not filled up, l)y the ejjitheliuui, so that the projections stand out distinctly and independent!}', and in places attain a lieiglil of nearly 2 nun. above the general surface.