231 THE FIBULA. of the aponeurosis which covers the tibialis posticiis muscle. The remainder of the extensor aspect of the shaft, which, above, is directed backwards, is so twisted 'that inferiorly it is directed inwards. From this, in its upper part, the soleus muscle arises; whilst lower down, the flexor longus hallucis mus^e derives an extensive origin. Both of these muscles, together with the tibialis posticus, act as extensors of the ankle. On this aspect of the bone, at or near the middle of the shaft, and just behind the prominent tibial ridge, is the opening of the nutrient canal, which has a downward direction. The inferior extremity of the fibula, or external malleolus (malleolus lateralis), is of pyramidal form. Its inner surface is furnished with a triangular articular area (facies articularis melleoli), plane from before backwards, and slightly convex from above downwards, which articulates with a corresponding surface on the outer side of the body of the astragalus. Behind this there is a deep pit, to which the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament is attached. Above the articular facet there is a rough triangular area on the extensor surface of the shaft, from the summit of which the interosseous ridge arises; hereto are attached the strong fibres of the inferior interosseous ligament which bind together the opposed surfaces of the tibia and fibula. The external surface of the inferior extremity forms the elevation of the external malleolus which determines the shape of the projection of the outer ankle. Bounded from side to side and from above down- wards, it terminates below in a pointed process, which reaches a lower level than the corresponding process of the tibia, from which it also differs in being narrower and more pointed and being placed in a plane nearer the heel. Superiorly, this surface, which is subcutaneous, is continuous with the triangular subcutaneous area so clearly defined by the convergence above of the lines which unite to form the anterior border. The anterior border and tip of the external malleolus furnish attachments to the anterior and middle bands of the external lateral ligament of the ankle. The posterior surface of the external malleolus, broad above, where it is confiuent with the peroneal or external surface, is reduced in width below l)y the presence of the pit which lies to its inner side. This aspect of the bone is grooved (sulcus malleolaris) by the tendons of the peroneus longus and Ijrevis muscles, which curve round the posterior and lower-pointed aspect of the malleolus. 'J'he proportionate length of the fibula to the body height is as 1 is to 4-37-4'82. Arterial Foramina.—Numerous laiimte vascular canals are seen piercing tlie outer surlace of the head, and one or two of larger size are seen on tlie inner surface immediately in front of the superior articular facet. The canal for the nutrient artery of the shaft, which has a downward direction, is situated on the back of ^he bone about its middle. The outer surface of the external malleolus displays the openings of many small canals, and one or two larger openings are to be noted at the bottom of the pit behind the inferior articular surface. Connexions.—The head and external malleolus, and j^art of the shaft immediately above the latter, are subcutaneous. The remainder of the sliaft'is covered on all sides by the muscles whicli surround it. Superiorly tlie bone plays no part in the formation of the knee-joint, but inferiorly assists materially in strengthening the ankle-joint by its union with the tibia and its articulation with the astragalus. In position the bone is not parallel to the axis of the tibia, but oblique to it, its upper extremity lying posterior and external to a vertical line passing through the external malleolus. Architecture.—A medullary canal runs throughout the length of the shaft, reaching as high as the neck above, and extending as low as a point about 2^ inches above the inferior extremity of the external malleolus. The outer wall of the shaft is usually considerably thicker than the inner. The head is formed of loose cellular bone, enclosed witliin a very thin dense envelope. The spongy tissue of the lower extremity is more compact, and acquires considerable density on the surfaces underlying the articular area and the pit behind it. The canal for the nutrient artery of the shaft opens into the medullary cavity about an inch below its external aperture. Ossification,—The shaft begins to ossify about the middle of the second month of foetal life. At the end of the third month there is but little difference in size between it and the tibia, and at birth the fibula is much larger in proportion to the size of the tibia than in the adult. Its extremities are cartilaginous, the lower extremity not being as long as the internal malleolar cartilage of the tibia. It is in this, however, that an ossific centre first appears about the end of the second year, which increases rapidly in size, and unites with the shaft about nineteen years. The centre for the superior epiphysis begins to