1215 THE KNEE. moment of partial flexion. In full flexion almost the whole of the trochlear surface of the condyles is exposed to palpation, covered, ho\ve\'er, liy the stretched quadriceps tendon. The upper part of the inner surface of the internal condyle is overlapped by the muscular prominence of the lower fibres of the vastus internus. Leading upwards from the internal condyle is a slight furrow, corresponding to the interval between the lower part of the vastus internus and the sartorius ; at the bottom of the furrow the cord-like tendon of the adductor magnus may readily be felt, and followed down to its insertion into tlie adductor tubercle ; the latter, situated at the junction of the internal supracondyloid ridge with the upper and back part of the internal condyle, marks the level of the epiphysial cartilage. Anteriorly and posteriorly the epi- physial cartilage lies immediately above the highest part of the articular cartilage. Disease of the lower end of tlie diapliysis of the feiuur generally in^-ades the trigone of the femur and the popliteal space ratlier than the cavity of the knee-joint. In Mucewen's operation for knock-knee, the incision (through which the osteotome is introduced to divide tlie femur) is carried down to the bone through the A'astus internus a little above tlie internal condyle, a tinger's breadtli above the summit of the trochlea, to avoid injury to the epiphysial cartilage, and the same distance in front of the adductor tendon, to avoid injury to the deep liranch of the anasto- motic artery. Below the internal condyle is the subcutaneous inner tuberosity of the tibia across which the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and seniitendinosus pass to their insertion. Between the above tendons and the inner head of the gastrocnemius is a groove which winds downwards and forwards from the popliteal space ; an incision along this groove will expose the long saphenous vein and nerve and the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery. On the outer side of the knee is the ilio-tibial band, which, after crossing and obscuring the line of the joint, is attached to the outer tuberosity of the tibia. By semiflexion of the knee the posterior border of the band is thrown into relief, and a well-marked furrow intervenes lietween it and the prominent tendon of tlie biceps; the lower part of the shaft of the femur and the trigone may be reached througli an incision along this furrow. Under cover of the ilio-tiliial band, as it crosses the line of the joint, are the external semilunar cartilage, the inferior external articular artery, and the external lateral ligament. The head of the fibula, with the tendon of 'the biceps passing to Ije inserted into it, are renilered distinctly visible by semi- flexing the knee; the former lies on a level with the tubercle of the tibia, 1^ in. behind and a little l>elow the most pronanent jiart of the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Immediately below the head of the fibula is the termination of the external popliteal nerve, which is liable to be contused from blows, and in fractitres of the neck of the fibula. The synovial membrane of the knee-joint extends downwards anteriorly as far as the level of the upper border of the tibia; posteriorly, it dips downwards for a short distance behind the popliteal notch of the tibia, to form a small cul-de-sac, the close relation of which to the popliteal artery must be borne in mind in performing the operation of excision of the knee. Anteriorly, the synovial cavity extends upwards beneath the quadri- ceps in the form of a pouch, which reaches nearly two inches above the articular surface of the femur ; posteriorly, there is no extension of the synovial cavity upwards above the condyles; laterally, the synovial membrane covers the anterior third of the otiter surface of each condyle. In effusion into the knee-joint the hollows become obliterated, the jiatella is floated up, and fluctuation wvAy be olitained alnive, belnw, and to either side of the patella. To jiass a tube through tlie knee-joint for drainage, two short vertical incisions should be made—one on each side of the joint at the level of the upper part of the patella, and a finger's breadth behind its lateral edges. In arthrectomy of the knee for tubercular disease, the subsynovial fat facilitates the scpaiatimi nf tin-su]ira])atellar ])uuch from the lower and anterior part of the shaft of the femur ; to expose the pouches behind the condyles, the crucial ligaments must be divided. THE LEG. The inner surface of the tibia is subcutaneous throughout, hence the seat of a fracture of the shaft is, as a rule, easily felt, and the lower extremity of the upper