390 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. constrictor. The muscle is placed Ijeneatli the middle and inferior constrictors in the pharyngeal wall, and the fibres of the muscles of opposite sides decussate in the middle line beneath the median raphe. The Muscles of the Soft Palate. The muscular fold of the soft palate and uvula is composed of five pairs of muscles on each side, attached to the skull, hard palate, pharynx, and tongue—the palato-pharyngeus (and salpingo-pharyngeus), azygos uvulfe, levator palati, tensor palati, and palato- glossus. The palato- pharyngeu s muscle has been already described (p. 389) among the muscles of the pharynx. The azygos uvulae consists of two narrow bundles enclosed, along with the insertion of the levator palati, between the layers of the palato-pharyn- geus. The slips arise from the posterior nasal spine and the aponeurosis of the soft palate, and unite as they pro- ceed backwards to end in the uvula. The levator palati has a double origin: (1) from the under surface of the apex of the pet- rous portion of the temporal bone,and (2)from the lower part of the cartilaginous Eustachian tube. It passes obliquely downwards and inwards, across the upper border of the superior constrictor muscle, and afterwards between the two layers of the palato-pharyngeus muscle to enter the soft palate, into the aponeurosis of which it is inserted. Some of its fibres become continuous with those of the opposite muscle. It is separated from the tensor palati by the Eustachian tube and the deeper layer of the palato- pharyngeus muscle. The tensor (circumflexus) palati arises from the scaphoid fossa and the alar spine of the sphenoid bone, and from the outer side of the cartilaginous Eustachian tube. It descends between the internal pterygoid muscle and the internal ptery- goid plate, and ends in a tendon which hooks round the hamular process, and is Buccinator Mylo-hyoid Hyo-olossus Digastric Stylo-hyoid Omo-hyoid Sterno-hyoid. Thyro-hyoid. Crico-thyroid Tensor palati muscle Eustacliian tube Levator palati Pteiygo-iiiandibular ligament Superior constrictor Stylo-pharyngeus Stylo-olossus Glossopharyngeal nerve Stylo-hyoid ligament Hypoglossal nerve Middle constrictor DiOASTRIC Superior laryngeal nerve Inferior constrictor External laryngeal nerve oesophagus Inferior laryngeal Fig. 286.—Lateral View of the Wall of the Pharynx.