THE BKAIN OE ENCEPHALON. 439 the brain becomes continuous with the spinal cord. The bulb lies on the ventral aspect of the cerebellum, and occupies the vallecula or hollow which intervenes between the two cerebellar hemispheres. The cerebellum is a mass of considerable size which is placed below the hinder portions of the two cerebral hemispheres. It Olfactory " Olfactory 1 Olfactory tubi Optic n Optic cliiE Ociilo-motor n Trochlear ii Trigeminal nerve' Abducent nerve- Facial nerve Pars intermedia-* H ^ Auditory nerve—~ Olfactory bulb ■Olfactory ti'act ■Broca's area .Olfactory tubercle Mesial root of olfactory iiuerve —Lateral root Optic chiasnia i—Ant. perforated spot jl^Temporal lobe (cut) ||iir,Optic tract ■Oculo-niotor nerve Trochlear nerve Tii^nia semicircularis j-Trigeniinal nerve ^Ext. geniculate body i<^Abduceiit nerve Int. geniculate body ]~Pulvinar '7~"Facial nerve Pars intermedia -y~~~-Auditory nerve ^Lateral ventricle " Mid. cerebellar peduncle Glosso-pliaryngeal nerve Vagus nerve Spinal accessory nerve (accessory) Spinal accessory nerve (spinal) 'Occipital lobe (cut) Glosso-pharyngeal nerve / Vagus nei \ r Spinal accessory nerve (accessory) Spinal accessory nerve (spinal) Hypoglossal nerve Hypoglossal nerve hijiiial cord Vermis of cerebellum (cut) Fig. 325.—The Base of the Brain (A. M. Paterson). The under part of the left temporal and occipital lobes has been sliced off so as to open into the lateral ventricle. The left hemisphere of the cerebellum has also been removed. is easily recognised on account of the closely-set, curved, and parallel fissures which traverse its surface. Above the medulla, and in close connexion with it, is a prominent white elevation called the pons Varolii. Immediately in front of the pons there is a deep hollow or recess. This is bounded behind by the pons Varolii, on either side by the projecting temporal lobe of the cerebral hemisphere, and in front by the orbital portions of the frontal lobes of the cerebral hemispheres. Passing out from either side of the fore-part of this recess is the deep Sylvian fissure which intervenes between the pointed and projecting extremity of the temporal lobe and the frontal lobe of the cerebrum, whilst in the middle line in front the great longitudinal fissure, which separates the frontal portions of the cerebral hemispheres, opens into it. Within the limits of this deep hollow, in the base of the brain, two large rope- like strands, the crura cerebri, may be seen issuing from the upper aspect of the pons Varolii. Placed close together as they emerge from the pons, these crura diverge as they proceed upwards and forwards, and finally each disappears by plunging into the corresponding side of the cerebrum. Turning round the outer side of each crus, where it enters the cerebrum, a flattened band termed the optic tract may be observed. These bands converge in the fore-part of -the hollow, and