THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 652 The Thoracic Plexuses. OaM Cardiac Plexuses.—The cardiac branches of the pneumogastric nerve (both cervical and thoracic) combine with the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic to form the superficial and deep cardiac plexuses. The superficial cardiac plexus is placed in the hollow of the aortic arch, superficial to the pericardium. It contains a small ganglion (ganglion of Wrisberg), and is joined by two small nerves—(1) the cardiac l»ranch from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and (2) the inferior cervical cardiac bra.nch of the pneumogastric —l)oth of the left side—wliich reach it after passing over the arch of the aorta. Branches and Communications.—From the plexus branches of communication pass (1) to the left half of the deep cardiac plexus, between the aortic arch and the Ijifurcation of the pulmonary artery; (2) to the left anterior pulmonary plexus along the left Ijranch of the pulmonary artery; (3) the branches of distriI)ution to the heart extend along the pulmonary artery to join the anterior or right coronary plexus, which supplies the substance of the heart in the course of the right coronary artery. The deep cardiac plexus is much the larger. It is placed l)ehind the arch of the aorta, on the sides of the trachea, just above its bifurcation. It consists of two lateral parts, joined together by numerous com- munications around the termination of the trachea. The two portions of the plexus are different in their constitution and distribution. The riglit half of the plexus is joined by both the cervical and thoracic l)ranches of the right pneumogastric and l)y the branches of the right inferior laryngeal nerve, as well as l)y branches from the superior, middle, and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. The left half of tlie plexus is joined by the superior cervical cardiac branch of the left pneumogastric, by branches from the left inferior laryngeal nerve, and by branches from the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the left sympathetic; it also receives a contribution from the superficial cardiac plexus. " The deep cardiac plexus is distributed to the heart and lungs. The right half of the plexus for the most part constitutes the anterior or right coronary plexus, reaching the heart alongside the ascending aorta, and is distributed to the heart sub- stance in the course of the right coronary artery. It is reinforced by fibres from the superficial cardiac plexus, which reach the heart along the pulmonary artery. Fibres from the right half of the deep cardiac plexus pass also to join the posterior or left coronary plexus, and others extend outwards to join the anterior pulmonary plexus of the right side. The left half of the deep cardiac plexus, reinforced Ijy fibres from the superficial cardiac plexus, is distri- Ijuted to the heart in the form of the left or posterior coronary plexus, which is joined by a few fibres behind the pulmonary artery from the right half of the plexus, and supplies the heart substance in the course of the left coronary artery. The left half of the plexus -The Constitution of THE Cardiac Plexuses. Sy, Cervical sympathetic cord ; C'.l, Superior, C.2, Middle, and C.3, In- ferior cervical ganglia ; Car.l, Su- perior, Car. 2, Middle, and Car. 3, Interior cervical cardiac sympa- thetic branches; Va, Pueuniogastric nerve ; R.L, Recurrent laryngeal nerve ; s, Superior, and i, Inferior cervical cardiac branches of vagus ; D.C.P, Deep cardiac plexus ; S.C.P, Superficial cardiac jilexus ; A.P. P, Anterior pulmonary plexus ; P.P.P, Posterior pulmonary plexus ; R.Car.P, Right, and L.Car.P, Left coronary plexuses ; Art. Pul, Pul- monary artery.