LIGAMENTS OF THE VEETEBEAL COLUMN. 255 Pedicle of vertebra divided margin of the superimposed vertebra is overlapped on each side by the one which bears it, the disc does not extend to the extreme lateral margin, and in this position a small diarthrosis may be seen at each lateral margin of the disc. The anterior common ligament (lig. longitudinale anterius, Fig. 199) consists of a wide stratum of longitudinal fibres which extends from the front of the axis vertebra to the front of the upper segment of the sacrum, and becomes gradually wider from above downwards. It lies in front of the intervertebral discs, to which it is firmly attached as it passes from one vertebra to the other. Its fibres vary in length. Some are attached to contiguous margins of two adjoining vertebrae; others pass in front of one vertebra to be attached to the next below, and yet others find their lower attachment three or four vertebra) below the one from which they started. None of the fibres are attached to the transverse depression on the front of a vertebral body. The posterior common ligament (lig. longitudinale posterius. Fig. 200) is found within the spinal canal upon the posterior aspect of the vertebral bodies. It con- sists of longitudinal fibres, and it extends from the back of the sacrum to the axis vertebra, superior to which it is continued to the skull as the posterior Qccipito-axial ligament. Opposite each interverte- .bral disc it is attached to the entire width of the adjacent margins of the two vertebral bodies, its fibres being continued over the posterior surface of the disc. In the lumbar and dorsal regions, the width of the ligament is considerably reduced opposite the back of each vertebral body, and thus it forms a series of dentate projections along both of its margins; but in the cervical region the width of the ligament is more uniform. One or two large thin-walled veins escape from the body of each vertebri under cover of this liga- ment. Interneural Articulations.—The neural arch of each typical vertebra carries two pairs of articular processes, by means of which it articu- lates with adjacent neural arches. The articu- lations between these processes are true diarthroses of the arthrodial variety. The distinctive characters of these articular sur- faces, as regards their shape and' direction in the different groups of vertebrae, have been referred to in the section on osteology. All these articulations are provided with complete but very thin-walled cap- sules (capsulae articulares), which are thinnest and loosest in the cervical region, where also the movements are freest. Each capsule is lined by a synovial membrane. Associated with these interneural joints are certain ligaments which are accessory to the articulations, although they are quite distinct from the capsule. The laminae of adjoining vertebrae are bound together by the ligamenta subflava (ligamenta flava vel subflava. Fig. 201), which consist of yellow elastic fibres. The ligamenta subflava close the spinal canal in the intervals between the laminae. Each ligament is attached superiorly to the anterior aspect of one lamina at a short distance above its lower border, and inferiorly it is attached to the posterior aspect of the subjacent lamina. In the dorsal region, where the imbrication of adjoining laminae is a prominent feature, these ligaments are not so distinctly visible from behind as they are in the regions where imbrication of the laminae is not so marked. Laterally they extend as far as the articular capsules, while mesially the margins of the ligaments of opposite sides meet under cover of the root of the spinous process. Contiguous pairs of spinous processes are also attached to each other by inter- spinous ligaments (ligamenta interspinalia, Fig. 198). These are strongest in the Fig. 200.—Posterior Common Ligament OP THE Vertebral Column.