GENERAL OUTLINE OF DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN. 443 F OR E ^ those structures which occupy the interpeduncular space in the base of the brain (viz. the posterior perforated spot, the corpora mammillaria, and the tubercinereum); whilst the roof or dorsal wall remains thin and epithelial, and undergoes no nervous development. The hollow cerebral hemispheres soon outstrip all the other parts of the brain in their development. They expand not only in an upward and forward direction, but chiefly in a backward direction; and by their excessive growth backwards they gradually come to overlie the dien- cephalon, the mesenceph- alon, and at last the parts derived from the rhomb- encephalon. It thus comes about that, when the adult brain is viewed from above nothing but the cerebral hemispheres are visible—all the other parts of the brain lie under cover of them. At first the cavity of each cerebral hemisphere is connected with the cavity of the front portion of the fore-brain by an exceedingly short but relatively wide passage. This is the early condition of the foramen of Monro. The fore-part of the fore-brain is now seen to be bounded in front between the two hollow cerebral hemisphere-pouches by a narrow thin strip, which represents the extreme anterior wall of the iieural tube, and consequently it receives the name of lamina terminalis. The cavity of the fore-brain not only in its hinder diencephalic part, but also in its anterior part {i.e. the part from which the cerebral hemispheres bud out), persists as the third ventricle of the brain, whilst the cavities of the primitive cerebral hemispheres are represented in the adult by the lateral ventricles of the brain. The foramina of Monro, relatively much reduced in size, are preserved as narrow throats of communication between the lateral ventricles and the third ventricle. The olfactory lobes are formed as hollow outgrowths from the cerebral hemispheres. Flexures of the Brain-tube.—At a very early period, and while the changes detailed above are being carried on, the cerebral portion of the neural tube becomes sharply bent upon itself at certain points. The first flexure which occurs is the primary cephalic flexure. It occurs in the region of the mesencephalon, and involves the entire head. The fore-brain becomes bent in a ventral direction round the fore-end of the notochord and the fore-gut, until the long axis of the fore-brain forms an acute angle with the long axis of the hind-brain and the ventral wall of the one comes to lie nearly parallel with the corresponding wall of the other. Through this curvature the mid-brain is considerably modified in form, and for a time it comes to occupy the most prominent and foremost part of the embryonic head. Fig. 329.—The Brain of a Human Embryo in the Fifth Week (from His). A, Brain as seeu iu profile. B, Mesial section through the .same brain. /I, Mammillary eminence ; Tc, Tuber cinereum ; Hp, Hypophysis (pituitary diverticulum from buccal cavity) ; Opt, Optic stalk ; TH, Optic thalamus ; Tg, Tegmental part of mesencephalon ; Ps, Pars subthalamica ; Cs, Corpus striatum ; FM, Foramen of Blonro ; L, Lamina terminalis ; RO, Recessus opticus ; Ri, Recessus infun- dibuli.