MOEPHOLOGY OF THE SKELETAL MUSCLES. 413 against the mednllrtry tube and notochord on either side. The cleft between its two layers represents the remains of the coelomic cavity. In young embryos it is to be seen in an active condition of growth. On its inner side masses of cells arise, which grow inwards and surround the medullary tube and notochord to form the foundation of the vertebral column. On its outer side cells appear to be given off which participate in the formation of the cutis vera. At the same time the dorsal and ventral borders of the myotome continue to extend, and present extremities (growing points) with an epithelial structure for a considerable period. On the dorsal side it overlies the medullary tube, and gives rise to the muscles of the back; while by its ventral extension, which traverses the somatopleuric mesoblast in the body wall, it produces the lateral and ventral muscles of the trunk. By an inward extension it probably gives rise also to the hypaxial muscles of the neck and loin. The cells of the inner layer of the myotome are responsible for the formation of the muscle fibres. Elongating in a direction parallel to the long axis of the embryo, they give rise by fusion with the cells of neighbouring myo- tomes to the columns and sheets of muscles of the back and trunk. For the most part {e.g. back and abdomen) the originally segmental character of the muscular elements is lost by the more or less complete fusion of adjacent myotomes. The intercostal muscles, however, are the direct derivatives of individual myotomes. Muscles of the Limbs.—In fishes (elasmobranchs) and reptiles there is evidence that the myotomes are concerned in the formation of the limb-muscles by the extension of the myotomes into the limb-bud in a manner similar to that described for the trunk. In birds and mammals, however, in which the limb-bud arises as an undifferentiated, unsegmented mass of mesoblastic tissue, partly from the mesoblast surrounding the noto- chord, and partly from the somatopleuric mesoblast, the myotomes stop short at the root of each limb, and do not penetrate into its substance. Instead, the muscular elements of the limb take origin independently as double dorsal and ventral strata of fusiform cells on the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the axial cartilages of the limb. These strata are unsegmented; they are grouped around the skeletal elements of the limb, and they gradually become differentiated into the muscle masses and individual muscles of the limb. Muscles of the Head.—Notwithstanding the obscurity and complexity of this subject, it appears certain that at least two series of elementary structiires are concerned in the formation of the muscles of the head and face—the cephalic myotomes and the muscular structure of the branchial arches. The number of myotomes originally existing in the region of the head is not known, although it is stated with some authority that nine were primitively present. The fiist three are described as persisting in the form of the ocular muscles, the last three in relation to the muscles of the tongue, while the three intervening myotomes disappear. The following table shows the probable fate of the cephalic myotomes :— First, Superior, internal and inferior recti, ohliquus inferior, levator palpehraj superioris. Second, Obliquus superior. Tliird, Rectus externus. Fourth, Fifth and Sixth, Absent. Seventh, -\ Eighth, [Muscles of the tongue. Ninth, j Muscles connecting cranium and shoulder-girdle. Tenth (or first cervical) J Tlie mesoblastic tissue of the branchial arches is probably concerned in the production of the following nmscles of the face and neck :—^ First (mandibidar) arch Second Qiyoid) arch Tliird (thyro-hyoid) arch Fourth and Fifth (branchial) arches Muscles of mastication. Platysnia inyoides and facial muscles. Muscles of soft palate. Stapedius, stylo-liyoid, and digastric, f Stylo-pharyngeus. \ Superior constrictor. (Middle and inferior constrictors. (Muscles of larynx.