457 INTERNAL STRUCTUEE OF THE MEDULLA. are called deep arcuate fibres (fibrte arcuatfe internas), and they are derived from the cells of the gracile and ciineate nuclei. From the deep aspects of these nuclei these fibres stream forwards and inwards towards the median raphe, forming a series of concentric curves in the substance of the medulla. They cross the mesial plane and decussate with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side, upon the dorsal aspect of the pyramids. Having thus gained the opposite side of the medulla they immediately turn upwards and form a conspicuous strand of longitudinal fibres, which ascends close to the mesial plane and is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the medial raphe alone.' This strand is termed the fillet or lemniscus. As we proceed up the medulla the deep arcuate fibres which first come into sight appear as coarse bmidles which curve forwards in a narrow group around the central gray matter. Soon other finer bundles appear, which describe wider curves on the outer side of the coarser group imtil a very large part of each lateral half of the medulla is seen to be traversed by these arcuate fasciculi. As they approach the mesial plane they come in contact with the remains of the anterior basis-bundle, which at this level, as already mentioned, lies upon the dorsal aspect of the pyramid, flattened up against the raphe. The deep^rcuate fibres pierce the anterior basis-bundle obliquely, and in the interval between it and the corresponding strand of the opposite side they decussate in the middle line with the deep arcuate fibres of the opposite side. They then change their direction and turn upwards, and the fillet, as already stated, takes form and gradually increases in volume as it ascends. This great and important tract is thus laid down between the pyramid and the an- terior basis-bundle ; Oracile nucleus and the consequence of this is that the latter tract is pushed still further back- wards, and when the fillet is fully estab- lished it comes to lie immediately beneath the gray matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle (Fig. 341). spinal root of trigeminal nerve Cuneate nucleus Fasciculus solitarius Direct cerebellar tract Substantia ffi " gelatinosa Rolaiitli Deep arcuate tibr Hypoglossal nerve Anterior su]ierHcial arcuate tibres Inferior olivary nucleus Mesial accessory olivary nucleus Pyramid Superficial ^&~anterior arcuate fibres When the fillet is fully formed three longitudinal strands are observed traver- sing the medulla, close to the mesial plane. From before backwards these are: (1) the pyramid, (2) the fillet, and (3) the posterior longitudinal bundle. The pyramid forms a massive tract quite distinct from the fillet, which lies behind it. The fillet and the posterior longitudinal bundle are, in the first instance, not marked off from each other. They appear as a broad flattened band applied to the raphe. One edge of this band is directed backwards and reaches the gray matter on the floor of the fourth ventricle, while the other edge looks forwards, and is in contact with the pyramid. In the upper part of the medulla the fillet and the posterior longi- tudinal fasciculus begin to draw asunder from each other. The intermediate longitudinal fibres become reduced in number and the two strands grow denser— the one on the dorsal aspect of pyramid, and the other immediately beneath the gray matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle (Fig. 341). Fig. 340.—Transverse Section through the Human Medulla in the Lower Olivary Region.