THE SYMPATHETIC JTERVOUS SYSTEM. 663 the cells of a sympathetic ganglion. There are three known courses for such a fibre to take in relation to the sympathetic system—(a) It mmj end in the ganglion with which it is immediately related; (h) it may course upivards or dovmivards in the commissural cord to reach a neighbouring ganglion ; (c) it may pass beyond the gangliated cord to end in relation to cells of the peripheral (collateral) ganglia along with fibres of distribution from the sympathetic ganglia. These fibres are splanchnic efferent fibres; motor for the unstriped muscular tissue of the vessels and viscera, and secretory for the glands in the splanch- nic area. The fibres from the dorsal root of the spinal nerve entering into the composition of the white ramus com- municans are the axons of spinal gang- lion cells. They con- stitute the splanchnic afferent fibres, and probalily traverse the sympathetic gang- liated cord, passing upwards, downwards, and outwards, with- out l>eing connected with its cells. They are the sensory fibres for the viscera, which they reach along with the peripheral branches arising from the sympathetic cord itself. It is not cer- tain that fibres from the dorsal ganglia are only found in con- nexion with nerves provided with distinct white rami. Similar meduUated fibres are found also in the gray rami communi- cantes. The non - medul- lated fibres in the sympathetic system are derived from the axons of the sympa- thetic ganglion cells. They have different destinations, (a) Some fibres appear to contribute to the formation of the commissural cord connecting the ganglia together, and to end in aborisations round the cells of a neighbouring ganglion, (h) Non-meduUated fibres form a large part of the system of peripheral (splanchnic efferent) branches, streaming into the splanchnic area in an irregular manner, both from the ganglia and the connecting commissures, (c) The gray rami communicantes form a series of non-medullated fibres (with a small number of medullated fibres intermingled) proceeding centrally from the ganglia to Fig. 476.- -scheme of the cox.stitution and connexions of the Gangliated Coed of the Sympathetic. The gangliated cord is indicated on the right, with the arrangement of the fibres arising from tlie ganglion cells. On the left the roots and trunks of spinal nerves are shown, with the arrangement of the white ramus comniunioans above and of the gray ramus below.