THE VASCULAK SYSTEM. 850 iliac artery, and then upwards behind the peritoneum and in front of the psoas muscle and ureter. The veins of the right side, like the corresponding spermatic veins, also pass behind the termination of the ileum and the third part of the duodenum; whilst the left veins, near the l)rim of the pelvis, pass lieliind the com- mencement of the pelvic colon. The two veins on each side ultimately fuse together to form a single terminal vein which ends, on the right side in the inferior vena cava, and on the left side in the left renal vein. As the left ovarian veins ascend on the psoas tliey receive tributaries from the iliac and pelvic colon. The Iliac Veins. The common iliac veins (Figs. 572 and 587), right and left, are formed by the union of the corresponding external and internal iliac veins. Each commences opposite the brim of the pelvis, immediately l)ehind the upper part of the internal iliac artery of its own side, and both vessels pass upwards to the right side of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, at the upper part of which, just behind and to the outer side of the right common iliac artery, they unite together to form the inferior vena cava. The right common iliac vein (v. iliaca communis dextra) is much shorter than the left; it passes in front of the obturator nerve and the iho-luniljar artery, and at first behind and then somewhat to the outer side of the cori-esponding common iliac artery. The left common iliac vein (v. iliaca communis sinistra) is much longer than the right, and is also placed more obliquely. It passes upwards and to the right, in front of the body of the fifth lumi)ar vertebra, and across the middle sacral artery. For some distance it runs along the inner side of the left common iliac artery, and then passes behind the right common iliac artery. It also passes behind the mesentery of the pelvic colon and the superior hiemorrhoidal artery. Tributaries.—Each comuion iliac vein receives the corresponding extei'ual and internal iUac veins and the ilio-himlmr vein. The left common iliac vein receives in addition the middle sacral vein. The ilio lumbar veins (vv. ilio-hnnbales) receive tributaries from the iliac fossa, from the lower parts of the spinal muscles, and from the spinal canal. There is a single vein on each side which accoraj)anies the corresponding artery. It passes behind the psoas muscle and terminates in the common iliac vein. Middle Sacral Veins.—The venae comites of the_middle sacral artery commence hy the union of tributaries which issue from the venous plexus in front of the sacrum, through which they communicate with the lateral sacral veins and i-eceive blood from the sacral part of the spinal canal. They unite above into a single stem (v. sacralis media), which terminates in the left common iliac vein. The internal iliac vein (v. hypogastrica. Fig. 569) is a short trunk formed by the union of tributaries which correspond to all the branches of the internal iliac artery, with the exception of the hypogastric or umliilical branch. It commences at the upper border of the great sciatic notch, and ascends to the brim of the pelvis, where it unites with the external iliac vein to form the common iliac vein. It lies immediately ))ehind and slightly to the inner side of the internal iliac artery, is crossed externally by the obturator nerve, and is in relation internally, on the left side with the pelvic colon, and on the right side with the lower part of' the ileum. Tributaries.—The tributaries, which are numerous, are conveniently divisible into extra-pelvic and intra-pelvic groujjs. Tiie extm-peluic tributaries are all parietal, and include the obturator, internal pudic, sciatic, and gluteal veins. Obturator Vein (v. obturatoria).—This vein is formed by the union of tributaries which issue from the hip-joint and from the muscles on the upper and inner part of the thigh. It enters the pelvis through the obturator foramen, runs backwards along the lateral wall lying on the pelvic fascia immediately below the corresponding artery, and, passing between the internal iliac artery on the outside and the ureter on the inside, terminates in the internal iliac vein.