SUPEEIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. 665 placed behind the first part of the subclavian artery in the interval between the last cervical transverse process and the neck of the first rib. The branches from the cervical sympathetic ganglia and cord are divisible into two sets—(A) Central communicating branches for other nerves; (B) peripheral branches of distribution, which alone, or along with other nerves, form plexuses, accompany- ing and supplying vessels and viscera of the head, neck, and thorax. Although this dis- tinction is made, it is to be borne in mind that the branches of communication are as much nerves of distribution as the others. Superior Cervical Ganglion. Central Communicating Branches.— 1. Gray rami communicantes pass from the ganglion to the anterior primary divisions of the first four cervical nerves. 2. Communications with Cranial Nerves.— Just outside the skull, in the deep part of the neck, communicating branches pass to the following cranial nerves: (a) to the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal and the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric (n. jugularis); (b) to the ganglion of the trunk of the pneumogastric; (c) to the hypoglossal nerve. Peripheral Branches of Distribution.— 1. Pharynx.—A pharyngeal branch courses downwards and inwards behind the carotid sheath to reach the wall of the pharynx, where it joins (along with the pharyngeal branches of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneu- mogastric nerves) in the formation of the pharyngeal plexus, supplying the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx. 2. Heart.—The superior cervical cardiac branch is a slender nerve which, on the right side, descends behind the large vessels into the thorax to join the deep cardiac plexus. On the left side the course of the nerve is similar in the neck, but in the superior mediastinum it passes between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, and over the aortic arch, to join with the inferior cervical cardiac branch of the pneumogastric in the formation of the superficial cardiac plexus. In their course both nerves form connexions Car. Fig. 477.—The Distribution op the Sympa- thetic Gangliated Cord m the Neck. Sy. 1, Superior cervical ganglion, and connexions and branches ; I.C, Internal carotid artery ; G.Pli, Glosso-pharyngeal ; Va, Vagus ; Hy, Hypoglossal ; C.l, 2, 3, 4, First four cervical nerves ; Plex, Pharyngeal plexus; G.Ph, Glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; E.C, To external carotid artery ; Sy.2, Middle cervical gang- lion, connexions and branches; C.5, 6, Fifth and sixth cervical nerves ; I.Thy, Inferior thyroid artery ; A.V, Ansa Vieussenii ; Sy.3, Inferior cervical ganglion, connexions and branches ; C.7, 8, Seventh and eighth cer- vical nerves ; Vert, Vertebral plexus ; Car, Cardiac branches. with the other cervical cardiac nerves of the sympathetic, and with cardiac and other branches of the pneumogastric (external and inferior laryngeal). 3. Vessels.—:(a) The external carotid branch passes forwards to the external carotid artery, and forms the external carotid plexus, which supplies offsets to that artery and its branches, as well as to the inter-carotid body. From the subordinate plexuses on the facial and middle meningeal arteries sympathetic fibres are supplied to the submaxillary and otic ganglia respectively. (&) The internal carotid branch is the attenuated upward prolongation of the ganglion, which applies itself to the internal carotid artery as it enters the temporal bone. This branch subdivides into outer and inner parts, which form plexuses