1000 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Fundus Superior or parietal surface Pylorus Antrum pylori tlie posterior abdominal wall, and convey to them their vessels and nerves. There are several mesenteries, e.g., the mesentery proper, which connects the jejunum and ileum to the posterior alidominal wall, tlie transverse meso- colon, the pelvic (or " sigmoid") mesocolon, and occasionally others. (c) Ligaments are peritoneal folds which pass between abdominal viscera other than portions of the digestive tube, or connect them to the abdominal wall. As examples of these may be mentioned most of the ligaments of the liver, the so-called "false ligaments" of the bladder, and the broad ligaments of the uterus. This term is also applied to several small folds which connect portions of the intestinal tube to the parietes, but do not convey to them their vessels and nerves. The gastro-phrenic and phreno-colic ligaments are examples of these. THE STOMACH. The stomach (ventriculus) is the large dilatation found on the diges- tive tube immediately after it enters the abdomen (Figs. 674 and 675). It constitutes a receptacle, in which the food accumulates after its passage through the oesophagus, and in it take place some of the earlier pro- cesses of digestion, resulting in the conversion of the food into a viscid soup-like mixture, known as chyme. The chyme j.s it is formed is allowed to escape intermittently through the pylorus, into the small intestine, where the digestive processes are continued. Although the form of the stomach varies considerably under different conditions, in general it is of an irregularly pyriform shape, with a wide or cardiac end directed back- wards and to the left, and a narrow pyloric end which runs to the right to join the duodenum. In addition to (a) its tuio ends, the stomach pre- sents for examination the following parts: (h) two curvatures, greater and lesser, separating (c) tuw stirfaces, superior and inferior; and (d) two orifices, the oesophageal orihce or cardia, and the pyloric orifice ' or pylorus (Fig. 674). Position and Form of the Stomach.— When empty, or nearly so, the stouiacli lies in the left hypochondrium and left part of the epigastrium, with its wide end Great omentum (cut) Cardia Gasitro-phrenic ligament Gastro-splenic omentum (cut) Uncovered area Superior or parietal surface Inferior or visceral surface Lesser omentum (cut) Pylorus Superior or parietal surface Great omentum (cut) Inferior or visceral surface Fio. 674.—MoDEiiATELY DisTKNDED STOMACH, viewed, A, from front; B, from iuuer or right side ; and C, fiom the outer or left side. (From photographs of the stomach shown in Figs. 670 and 675. The contents of the .stomach were carefully removed through an artificial opening, and I'eplaced with gelatine, the stomach remain- ing w sitii tliroughont the ojieration. After the jelly hardened, its exact orientation was carefully noted, and pins indicating the vertical, horizontal, and transverse planes, having been inserted, the organ was removed and photographed.)