683 SCLEEA—COENEA. from before backwards, the aqueous humour, the crystalline lens, and the vitreous body. SCLERA. The sclera, sclerotic coat, or white of the eye, is a firm, opaque membrane, which forms something like the posterior five-sixths of the outer tunic. Thickest posteriorly (about 1 mm.), it thins at the equator to 0"4 mm.-0"5 mm., and again increases to 0'6 mm. near the sulcus sclerfe. In the child it is thinner than in the adult and presents a bluish appearance, caused by the pigment of the chorioid shining through it, while in old age it assumes a yellowish tinge. Its outer surface is covered by a layer of endothelium and is in contact with the capsule of Tenon— a lymph space, the suprascleral lymphatic space, only intervening. In front of the equator it is roughened by the attachment of the tendons of the ocular muscles, while its anterior part is covered by mucous membrane, the conjunctiva. Its deep surface presents a brownish colour and is loosely attached to the chorioid, except at the optic entrance and in the neighbourhood of the sulcus sclerfe. It is pierced behind by the optic nerve, the entrance for which is funnel-shaped, wide behind and narrow in front, and is situated 1 mm. below and 3 mm. to the nasal side of the posterior pole of the eyeball. The fibrous sheath of the nerve blends with the outer part of the sclera, while the nerve bundles pass through a series of orifices; this perforated portion is named the lamina cribrosa scleras. Around the entrance of the optic nerve are some fifteen or twenty small apertures for the passage of the ciliary nerves and short ciliary arteries. The two long posterior ciliary arteries pierce it, one on either side, some little distance from the optic entrance; while a Uttle behind the equator are four openings, two above and two below, for the exit of veins, called vense vorticosae. Near the sulcus scleree it is perforated by the anterior ciliary arteries. Its inner surface is lined by flattened endothelial cells; and between it and the chorioid is an extensive lymph space, the spatium perichorioideale, which is traversed by the ciliary nerves and arteries just mentioned, and by an irregular meshwork of fine, pigmented, connective tissue, the lamina fusca, which loosely attaches the sclera to the chorioid. At the corneo-scleral junction the fibrous tissue of the sclera passes continuously into that of the cornea, and in the deeper part of this junction there is a circular canal, the sinus venosus sclerae, or canal of Schlemm, which communicates externally with the scleral veins, and internally, through numerous small openings, with the anterior chamber of the eyeball. The sclera consists of bundles of white fibrous tissue, together with some fine elastic fibres, the bundles forming equatorial and meridional layers, which inter- lace with each other. Numerous spaces containing connective tissue cells and migratory cells exist between the fibres. Pigmented cells are plentiful in the lamina fusca, and a few are also found in the tissue of the sclera, near the optic entrance and in the region of the corneo-scleral junction. The sclera receives its blood-supply from the short posterior ciUary and anterior ciliary arteries, while its veins open into the venae vorticosae and anterior ciliary veins. The cell spaces play the part of lymphatics, and communicate with the perichorioidal and supra- scleral lymph spaces. Its nerves are derived from the ciliary nerves, which, after losing their medullary sheath, pass between the fibrous bundles; their exact mode of ending is, however, not accurately known. CORNEA. The cornea forms the anterior sixth of the outer tunic and is transparent, in order to admit light into the interior of the eyeball; its index of refraction is from 1-33 to 1'35. Its anterior surface (facies anterior) is covered by a stratified epithelium, continuous with that which lines the conjunctiva ; its posterior surface (facies posterior) is directed towards the anterior chamber of the eyeball and is in contact with the aqueous humour. Its degree of curvature varies in different individuals; it is always greater in youth than in old age, and is, as a rule, slightly greater in the vertical than in the horizontal plane. It diminishes also from its centre to its periphery, and is less on the nasal than on the temporal side