884 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. origin as far as the point at which the right internal mammary artery arises, is formed by the fourth riglit aortic arch ] on the left side the fourth arch takes no part in the formation of the subclavian artery. In the lower limbs the primary main arterial stem, on each side, is represented by the sciatic, the popliteal, and the peroneal arteries. The sciatic artery arises from the caudal arch, and it, together with its prolongation through the popliteal space and leg, is probably formed from a somatic segmental vessel, but to which parts of this it cori-esponds is not clear. The external iliac artery, prolonged into the limb as the femoral artery, is developed at a later period than the sciatic arteiy. It arises from the caudal aortic arch above the origin of the sciatic artery, and, like the latter trunk, is probably a modified somatic segmental vessel. The femoral artery soon after its formation unites with the primary main stem, at the upper part of the popliteal space ; the sciatic artery then atrophies and loses its connexion with the popliteal artery, and lUtimately a permanent chief stem vessel is formed, which includes the external iliac, the femoral, the popliteal, and the peroneal arteries, and obviously it represents the two somatic segmental vessels by which it is formed. Both in the upper and in the lower limb, branches which attain a large size are given off from the main stem artery a short distance beyond the joint between the upper and middle sections of the limb, i.e. below the elbow in the upper limb and below the knee in the lower limb, and on account of the relatively great enlargement of these branches the continuity of the original stem is obscured. Thus it is that, in the adult, the brachial artery, the direct con- tinuation of the stem which is divided into subclavian, axillary, and brachial sections, appears to terminate by dividing into the radial and ulnar arteries, whilst originally it was continued through what, in the adult, is the upper part of the ulnar artery to the anterior interosseous artery; the posterior interosseous, the radial, and the ulnar arteries being merely branches from the main stem. Similarly, in the lower extremity the popliteal artery, which is the continuation of the original stem artery, appears to ter- minate in the adult by dividing into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, both of which in reality are branches from the sides of the main stem which was continued as the peroneal arteiy to the foot. Lateral sinus DEVELOPMENT OF THE VEINS. Simultaneously with the formation of the arteries by which the blood is distributed to the embryo and to the rest of the ovum, and in a similar manner, a series of vessels is developed by means of whicli the blood is returned to the heart. These vessels are the veins, of which there are two main groups. One group returns blood from the abdominal viscera and the amiexa (the yolk- sac and allantois) ; the other group includes the vessels which return blood from the Wolffian bodies, the body wall, the head and neck, and the limbs of the embryo. The first group consists of the vitelline, allantoic, and portal veins ; the second group includes the primitive jugular and the cardinal veins and the ducts of Cuvier. The trunks of the vitelline veins are formed by the posterior parts of the anterior primitive ventral aorta), and necessarily they open into the posterior part of the heart (sinus venosus). They collect blood from the yolk-sac, and ascend along the vitello-intestinal duct to be continued upwards along the External iliac vein Cardinal vein (internal iliac) Fig. 60-3.—Development of the Venous Svstem (Diagrammatic). Stage I.—The ducts of Cuvier, the vitelline veins, and the umbilical veins open directly into the heart.