10 GENERAL EMBRYOLOGY. The phenomena of the prophase commence with the division of the centrosome and attraction sphere into two parts which travel to opposite poles of the nucleus. At the same time the reticulum of the nucleus disappears, and in its place a con- voluted cord of chromatin, the skein or spirem, is formed (Fig. 3, A, B, and C); this is afterwards broken up into a number of segments which may be mere rods, but which more frequently have the form of V-shaped loops (Fig. 3, D). The nucleoli disappear, and some of the filaments which radiate from the newly-formed attraction spheres seem to penetrate the nuclear membrane at the poles of the nucleus. The nuclear membrane subsequently disappears, and the filaments passing from the attraction spheres into the nucleus form two cones, the bases of which meet at the equator of the nucleus, where they fuse together, forming an acliromatic spindle which extends between the two attraction spheres (Fig. 3, E). The loops, or rods, of chromatin are gradually grouped at the equator of the spindle, eacli rod, or chromosome, being apparently connected with one of the achiomatic fibrils; and the prophase is completed. In the metaphase each chromosome is split into two halves—daughter chromo- somes—which separate from one another; the separation commences at the apex of each V-shaped chromosome, which appears to be attached to an achromatic fibril (Fig. 3, F). In the anaphase the daughter chromosomes pass to the opposite poles of the spindle. It is suggested that this is brought about by the contraction of the spindle fibrils, but-this is doubtful, and it is noteworthy that in some cases fine achromatic fibrils connecting the separated daughter chromosomes are present (Fig. 3, G and H). Slightly before, or simultaneously with, the completion of the anaphase the cell body is equatorially constricted. During the telophase the constriction deepens and the cell is divided into two daughter cells. Whilst tliis division is taking place the daughter chromosomes, which are grouped in the neighbourhood of each attraction sphere at opposite ends of the spindle, unite into a convoluted cord, round which a nuclear membrane is formed, whilst the cord is converted into a reticulum, and nucleoli appear (Fig. 3, J, K, L). Therefore when the separation of the daughter cells is completed, at the end of the telophase, each possesses all the characteristic features of the mother cell. Reproductive Cells.—The germinal elements, the union of which is essential to the formation of a new being, are the ovum or female element, and the sperma- tozoon or male element. THE OVUM. Structurally an ovum presents all the characteristic features of a typical cell. It is peculiar because of the large size of the nucleus and nucleolus and in the possession of two investing membranes, an inner one, the vitelline membrane, wliieh corresponds to the cell wall, and an outer one, the oolemma or zona pellucida. Moreover, the nucleus always occupies an excentric position in the cytoplasm, and the cell body contains nutritive material in the form of yolk granules. The constituent parts of an ovum have received distinctive names, however; thus the cell body is known as the yolk or vitellus, the nucleus is termed the germinal vesicle, and the true niicleolus is called the germinal spot. Vitellus or Yolk.—The body of the ovum, consisting as in an ordinary cell of cytoplasm resolvable into reticulum and sap, contains also numerous granules of small but varying size called yolk granules. These are highly refractile, fatty, and albuminoid bodies containing phosphorus and mineral salts; collectively they constitute tlie deutoplasm or nutritive yolk, in contradistinction to the cytoplasm or formative yolk. Nutritive or food yolk plays an important part in development. In some animals it is the only means of support for the embryo wliilst in the ovum ; in most mammals, on the other hand, the embryo is supplied almost from the first with food not from the egg itself, but directly from the mother through the placenta. The amount of deutoplasm present in the ova of different animals therefore varies greatly.