69 STEUCTUEE OF BONE. able strength, equal to nearly twice that of oak, whilst it is capable of resisting a great crushing strain; it is stated that a cubic inch of bone will support a weight of over two tons. Its elasticity is remarkable, and is of the greatest service in enabling it to withstand the shocks to which it is so frequently subjected. In regions where wood is scarce the natives use the ribs of large mammals as a sub- stitute in the construction of their bows. Its hardness and density vary in different parts of the skeleton, and its permanency and durability exceed that of any other tissue of the body, except the enamel and dentine of the teeth. The osseous remains of a race over eighty centuries old is now being excavated in Egypt. Structure of Bone.—The structure of the bone varies with the form of the bone examined. If a long bone be studied in section, the shaft or diaphysis will be seen to be hollow, displaying a cavity of elongated shape, which contains the soft cellular marrow. Around this, the bone is deposited in spicules so as to form a loose osseous mesh work, which becomes denser as it" reaches the circumference, and gradually merges with the compact layer which forms the outer investing envelope. The extremities of the bone, usually developed from separate or secondary centres called epiphyses, are composed of cancellous tissue, usually finer in the grain and not, as a rule, displaying any medullary cavity. Here the confining shell of bone is thin, and displays none of the stoutness which is so characteristic of the outer layers in the shaft. In the recent condition the extremities are cartilage-covered where they enter into the formation of joints. In flat bones the osseous tissue is disposed in two compact layers, with a layer of softer cancellous bone, here called the diploe, sandwiched in between. There is no medullary cavity, although in certain regions the substance of the diploe may be absorbed, thus forming air-spaces or air- sinuses. True bone differs from calcified cartilage or membrane in that it not merely consists of the deposition of earthy salts within its matrix, but displays a definite arrangement of its organic and inorganic parts. Dense bone merely differs from loose or cancellous bone in the compactness of its tissue, the characteristic feature of which is the arrangement of the osseous lamellfe to form what are called Haversian systems. These consist of a central or Haversian canal which contains the vessels of the bone. Around this the osseous lamellae are arranged con- centrically, separated here and there by interspaces called lacunae, in which the bone corpuscles are lodged. Passing from these lacunje are many fine channels called canaliculi. These are disposed radially to the Haversian canal, and pass through the osseous lamellee. They are occupied by the slender processes of the bone corpuscles. Each Haversian system consists of from three to ten concentric rings of osseous lamellae. In addition to the lamellfe of the Haversian systems there are others which are termed the interstitial lamellae; these occupy the intervals between adjoining Haversian systems, and consist of Haversian systems which have undergone a process of partial absorption. Towards the surface of the bone, and subjacent to the peri- osteal membrane which surrounds the shaft, there are lamellae arranged circum- ferentially; these are sometimes referred to as the outer fundamental lamellae. The periosteal membrane which surrounds the bone, and which plays so important a part in its development, sends in processes through the various Haversian systems, which carry with them vessels and cells, thus forming an organic meshwork around which the earthy salts are deposited. The interior of the bone, viz. the marrow cavity, and the interspaces within the cancellous tissue, as well as some of the larger Haversian canals, are occupied by the marrow or medulla of the bone. This varies considerably in its composition in different bones. In the medullary cavity of the shafts of the long bones it consists mainly of fat cells, together with a few marrow cells proper, supported by a kind of retiform tissue, and is known as the yellow marrow. In other situations, viz. in the diploe of the cranial bones, in the cancellated tissue of the epiphyses of the long bones, the vertebrje, the sternum, and the ribs, the marrow is more fluid in its consistence, contains less fat, but is characterised by the presence of marrow-cells proper, which resemble in some respects colourless blood corpuscles. In addition to these, however, there are smaller reddish-coloured cells, akin to the nucleated red