1164 SUEFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. Keen drains the ventricles througli an opening 1^ in. behind the external auditory meatus and the same distance above Reid's base line (a line drawn backwards from the lower margin of the orbit through the centre of the external auditory meatus), the instrument being passed into the brain towards the summit of the opposite auricle. If the ventricle be not distended it will be reached at a depth of two inches fn im the surface. To open the subarachnoid space, the pin of a small trephine is placed over the mid-point of the line EA; the subarachnoid is incised as it crosses the stem of the fissure of Sylvius from the frontal lobe to the anterior extremity of the temporal lobe. Care must l.)e taken to keep in front of the middle meningeal artery. The cisterna magna, situated between the back part of the under surface of the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata, may be reached by turning down a Hap of soft parts, and removing a circle of bone a little alcove the foramen magnum, and immediately to one side of the middle line so as to avoid the occipital sinus. The fourth ventricle may ■ be opened up by making a somewhat larger trephine opening in the mesial plane and separating the posterior extremities of the tonsillar lobes of the cerebellum. To expose the lateral hemisphere of the cerebellum, trephine over the centre of a line drawn from the tip of the mastoid process to the external occipital pro- tul)erance. The occipital artery and the mastoid emissary vein will be divided in turning down the flap. Meningeal Arteries.—When the calvarium is removed the meningeal arteries are found to adhere firmly to the dura. Of these vessels the middle meningeal artery is the only one of surgical importance. It is frequently lacerated in fractures of the skull; the blood is generally extravasated between the dura and the bone, and the bleeding point lies beneath the clot. After entering the cranial cavity through the foramen spinosum, the main trunk, which is usually about 1| in. in length, runs outward and slightly forwards to bifurcate into anterior and posterior divisions at a point a finger's-breadth above the middle of the zygomatic arch, viz. at or close behind the point N. When the main trunk is short the bifurcation is situated lower down and farther liack. The anterior and larger division passes upwards, with a slight forward con- vexity, a little behind the spheno-squamous suture and across the pterion to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. From this point the vessel is continued upwards and slightly backwards behind the coronal suture; it gives off branches which ascend over the motor area. The position and general direction of the anterior branch may be readily mapped out on the surface, as it corresponds to the lower two-thirds of the precentral line MN; it follows, therefore, that the artery will l)e encoimtered in trephining over the lower and anterior part of the Eolandic area, especially over the motor centres for the tongue and face. The posterior division passes almost horizontally backwards towards the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. To expose the trtmk of the vessel and its Infurcation, the trephine is applied immediately above the middle of the zygomatic arch. To expose the anterior division the pin of the trephine may be applied at the point A, which strikes the artery as it crosses the pterion and grooves the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. The lower segment of the disc of bone removed is much thicker than the upper, as it involves the prominent ridge which passes from the tip of the great wing of the sphenoid on to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. At the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, the artery frequently runs in a canal for a distance of half an inch. It follows, therefore, that a considerable thickness of bone has to be sawn through at the lower segment of the circle before the disc can be removed, and during the removal bleeding may occur from the artery as it lies in the canal. Vogt localises the anterior division at a point a thuml)'s-breadth behind the tubercle on the posterior border of the malar bone antl two fingers'-breadth above the zygoma. Kronlein trephines at a point IJ in. behind the external angular process, on a line drawn from the supra-orbital margin backwards parallel to