THE SPLEEN. 1151 is triangular in i'onn, and looks downwards and inwards, an*d is in contact with the splenic ilexure f)f the colon and the costo-colic ligament {;inde p. 1033). The anterior border (margo anterior) of the Spleen is sharp and prominent, and intervenes between the gastric and diaphragmatic surfaces. Its leading character- istic is that it is Hilus Pancreatic impression Internal basal angle I'osterior basal angle Fig. 786.—The Spleen—Visceral Aspect. irregularly notched. The posterior border (margo posterior) separates the renal from the' diaphrag- matic surface. It is important to know that, if in the living subject the finger IS drawn along the last in- tercostal space, it will indicate with tolerable accuracy on the surface of the body the posi- tion and direction of the posterior border. The in- ferior border (margo inferior) of the spleen intervenes between the dia- phragmatic surface and the basal sur- face. The other margins of the spleen are those which separate the visceral areas from each other, and they have been already noticed. A marked feature of the typically-formed spleen is the great prominence of the anterior basal angle. It forms the most anteriorly placed part of the organ. Peritoneal Relations of the Spleen.—The spleen is almost completely enveloped by peritoneum, and two folds of peritoneum, viz. the gastro-splenic omentum and the lieno-renal ligament, pass from it. Both of these folds are attached in the neighbourhood of the hilus. The lieno-renal ligament proceeds l)ackwards to the anterior surface of the left kidney (p. 1049); the gastro-splenic omentum connects the spleen with the fundus of the stomach (p. 1054). Accessory Spleens.—Small globular masses of splenic tissue are not infrequently found in tlie neighbourhood of the s])leen. These are termed accessory spleens. Blood-vessels, Lymphatics, and Nerves of the Spleen.—The large splenic artery gains the spleen by passing between the two layers of the lieno-renal ligament. It breaks up into several branches which enter the organ througli the hilus. Some twigs proceed from the splenic artery to the stomach, which they gain by insinuating themselves between the two layers of the gastro- splenic omentum. The splenic vein is formed in the lieno-renal ligament by the union of the branches which emerge from the hilus of the organ. It joins the superior mesenteric vein to form the vena portse. The splenic plexus of nerves is an oilset from the coeliac part of the solar plexus, and accom- panies the arteries into the spleen. The lymphatic vessels leave the spleen at the hilus, and accompany the great vessels. There are no lymphatic channels within the spleen, although they are present in its capsule (Mall). Structure of the Spleen.—In our study of the structure of the spleen we have to consider—(1) the tunica propria, (2) the trabecular framework, (3) the spleen pulp, and (4) the distribution of the blood-vessels and the Malpighian corpuscles. Tunica propria (tunica albuginea).—Subjacent to the serous coating furnished bv the peritoneum tlie spleen is provided with a strong capsule termed the tunica propria. This is formed of fibrous tissue, with a large proportion of elastic fibres and a certain amount of involuntary muscular tissue. It is therefore highly distensible, and jDerhaps feebly con- tractile. To the outer surface of this capsule the peritoneum is inseparably attached.