493 INTEENAL STKUCTUEE OF THE MESENCEPHALON. qiiadrigeminal bodies is largely composed of a mass of gray matter which, in transverse section, presents an oval outline (Fig. 367, p. 496). This central nucleus is, to a large extent, encapsulated by white matter. Numerous cells of different sizes are scattered throughout it, and the whole mass is pervaded by an intricate interlacement of fine fibres, which are derived from the lateral fillet and the inferior brachium. In transverse sections, througli this region, the lateral fillet is seen to abut against the outer margin of the central nucleus. Many of the fibres of this tract enter it at once and become dispersed amo'ngst its cells; others sweep over its dorsal surface, so as to give it a superficial covering; whilst a third group is carried in the form of a thin layer inwards on its ventral aspect, so as to mark it off from the subjacent Sylvian gray matter of the aqueduct (Fig. 367, p. 496). In this manner, therefore, the inferior quadrigeminal nucleus becomes partially circum- scribed by the fibres of the lateral fillet. Several of the lateral fillet fibres, which proceed over the superficial or dorsal aspect of the nucleus, reach the mesial plane and form a loose decussation with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side. The mtimate connexion which is thus exhibited between the fibres of the lateral fillet and the nucleus of the inferior quadrigeminal body is very significant. It has already been shown that the lateral fillet, to a large extent, comes from the nuclei of termination of the cochlear nerve of the opposite side, although most of its fibres have to jjass through several nuclear inter- nodes before they reach the inferior quadrigeminal body. We must associate, therefore, the inferior quadrigeminal body, and also the corpus geniculatum internum, which likewise receives lateral fillet fibres, witli the organ of hearing. This view of the inferior quadrigeminal bodies is supported both by experimental and by morphological evidence. Speaking broadly, it may be stated that the inferior quadrigeminal bodies are only present as distinct eminences in mammals, and then they are invariably correlated with_ a spirally-wound and well-developed cochlea. That they have nothing to do with sight is shown by the fact that, when the eyeballs are extirpated in a young animal, the inferior quadrigeminal bodies remain unaft'ected, whilst the superior quadrigeminal bodies after a time atrophy (Gudden). When, on the other hand, the cochlear terminal nuclei are destroyed, fibres which have undergone atrojjhy may be followed to the inferior quadrigeminal bodies of both sides, but particularly to that of the opposite side (Baginski, Bumm, and Ferrier and Turner). A very considerable tract of ascending fibres takes origin within the inferior quadrigeminal body and passes upwards, in the inferior brachium, into the tegmentum subjacent to the internal geni- culate body. Within the tegmentum they proceed up to the optic thalamus (Ferrier and Turner). Superior Quadrigeminal Bodies (coUiculi superiores).—The superior quadri- geminal body presents a more complicated structure (Fig. 366). Siiperficially, it is coated with a layer of white matter, which is termed tlie stratum zonale. Underneath this there is a gray nucleus, called the stratum cinereum, which in transverse section exhibits a crescentic outHne and rests in a cap-like manner upon the subjacent part of the eminence. The succeeding two strata, which respectively receive the names of stratum opticum and the stratum lemnisci, present this feature in common that they are composed of gray matter, traversed by numerous fibres. The source from which the fibres are derived differs, however, in each case. Nerve-fibres reach the superior quadrigeminal body through—(1) the lateral and mesial fillets, and (2) through the superior brachium. The fillet fibres enter the stratum lemnisci, and, in all probability, end there. The superior brachium contains fibres of two different kinds, viz. fibres from the optic tract and fibres from the cortex of the occipital lobe of the cerebrum. By the former it is connected with the retina, and by the latter with the visual centre in the occipital region of the cerebral cortex. The retinal fibres, for the most part, spread out on the surface of the quadrigeminal body and form the stratum zonale. Most of them dip down into the substance of the body and end in connexion with the cells of the deeper layers; several, however, are carried across the mesial plane, to end in the superior quadrigeminal body of the opposite side. The occipital fibres, and probably also some of the retinal fibres, enter the stratum opticum. The fibres from the occipital cortex form part of the optic radiation, and the course which they pursue will be dealt with later on. Tegmental Portions of the Crura Cerebri (tegmenta).—The tegmentum of the crus cerebri may be regarded as the continuation upwards of the formatio