450 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. gracilis of the cord. It is true tliat a surface inspection of the medulla might very naturally lead the observer to this supposition, liecause there is no sharp line of demarcation marking it off from the tubercles of these strands. Such a conclusion, however, would be altogether erroneous, because it is questionable if any of the fibres of the posterior columns of the cord are carried beyond the gracile and cuneate nuclei of the medulla. A study of the surface of the medulla yields some important information regarding the constitution of the restiform body. Thus the direct cerebellar tract from the lateral column of tlie cord can be traced into it, and large numbers of fibres which take a curved course on the surface of the medulla may likewise be followed into it. These are the superficial arcuate fibres. Numerous other fibres enter the restiform body on its deep aspect, but these will be studied at a later stage. Superficial Arcuate Fibres (fibrte arcuatte externfe).—These fibres enter into tlie constitution of tlie restiform body, and they may be regarded as con- sisting of two sets, viz. the anterior superficial arcuate fibres and the posterior superficial arcuate fibres, both of which present this feature in common that they run on the surface of the medulla. The anterior superficial arcuate fibres are more particularly seen in the neighbour- hood of the olive, round the lower border of which, and also over tlie surface of which, they may be observed coursing in the form of a number of coarse curved bundles. They vary greatly in number and in distinctness, and they are sometimes so numerous as to cover over almost entirely the olivary eminence. An attentive examination will show that they come to the surface in the antero-median fissure between the pyramids, and also not unfrequently in the groove between the pyramid and olive, or through the substance of the pyramid itself. The antero- median fissure in its upper part is often almost completely blocked up by these emerging fibres. The anterior superficial arcuate fibres reaching the surface of the medulla in this manner turn backwards, and the great majority enter the restiform body and form a considerable part of its outer portion. The posterior superficial arcuate fibres arise in the cuneate and gracile nuclei, and enter the restiform body of the same side. THE PONS VAROLII. The pons Varolii is a marked white prominence on the basal aspect of the brain which is interposed between the medulla and the crura cerebri, and which lies in front of the cerebellum. It is convex from side to side, as well as from above downwards, and transverse streaks on its surface show that, superficially at least, it is composed of bundles of nerve-fibres which course transversely over it. On either side these transverse fibres are collected together in the form of a large compact strand, which sinks in a backward and outward direction into the white matter of the corresponding hemisphere of the cerebellum. This strand is termed the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, and the term " pons," applied to the entire structure, expresses in an admirable way the arch-like manner in which this portion of the brain bridges across between the two cerebellar hemispheres. The ventral surface of the pons is in relation to the basilar process of the occipital bone and the dorsum sellfe of the sphenoid bone. It presents a mesial groove (sulcus basilaris), which gradually widens as it is traced upwards, and in which the basilar artery lies. This mesial depression is produced by the prominence which is caused on either side by the passage of the pyramidal tract of the medulla upwards through the pons. The trigeminal or fifth cranial nerve, with its large entering sensory root and its small emerging motor root, is attached to the side of the ventral aspect of the pons, nearer its upper than its lower border. It is usual to restrict the term " pons " to that portion of the structure which lies between the two trigeminal nerves, and to apply the designation of middle cerebellar peduncle to the part which extends beyond the nerve into the hemisphere of the cerebellum. The sixth or abducent nerve, the seventh or facial nerve, and the eighth or auditory- nerve are attached to the brain at the lower border of the pons. The sixth emerges at the outer border of the pyramid, the seventh immediately in front of the resti-