THE MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. 387 The palato-glossus is a thin sheet of muscular fibres arising from the under surface of the soft palate, where it is continuous with fibres of the opposite muscle. It passes downwards in the anterior pillar of the fauces, and spreads out, to be in- serted into the sides of the tongue, blending with the stylo-glossus and the deep transverse fibres of the tongue. The muscle is placed directly beneath the mucous membrane of the soft palate and tongue. Intrinsic Muscles of the Tongue.—Besides receiving the fibres of insertion of the extrinsic muscles, the substance of the tongue is composed of four intrinsic muscles on either side, two in the sagittal plane, the superior and inferior linguales; two in the coronal plane, the transverse and vertical fibres. The superior lingualis muscle extends from base to tip of the tongue, placed on its dorsum immediately under the mucous membrane, into which many of its fibres are inserted. The inferior lingualis is a cylindrical band of muscular fibres occupying the under part of the organ on each side, in the interval between the genio-hyo-glossus and the hyo-glossus muscles. Posteriorly some of its fibres extend to the hyoid bone. The transverse fibres arise from the median raphe, and radiate outwards to the dorsum and sides of the tongue, decussating with the extrinsic muscles and the fibres of the vertical muscle. They occupy the substance of the tongue between the superior and inferior linguales. The so-called vertical fibres arise from the dorsal surface of the tongue, and sweep downwards and outwards to its sides, intermingled with the fibres of the previous muscle and the insertions of the extrinsic muscles. These two muscles form a very considerable part of the total muscular substance of the organ. Neeve Supply. The muscles of the hj'oid bone and of the tongue are for the most part supplied by the ansa cervicalis (C. 1. 2. 3.) and by the hypoglossal nerve. A few of the muscles are supplied hy the trigeminal, facial, and spinal accessory nerves. Muscles. Nerves. Origin. Omo-hyoid Sterno-hyoid Sterno-thyroid Thyro-hyoid Genio-hyoid Genio-hyo-glossus .... Hyo-glossus . . . ■. Stylo-glossus . ■ X ■ Intrinsic muscles of tongue Palato-glossus Mylo-hyoid Digastric Anterior belly .... Posterior belly .... Stylo-hyoid 1 Ansa cervicalis . Pharyngeal plexus . ] Mylo-hyoid branch of in- 1 feiior dental nerve 1 Facial C. 1. 2. 3. 1 C. 1. 2. 1 XII. XL VII. Actions. These muscles of the neck have a complexity of muscular action, owing to their numerous attachments to more or less movable points. The movements for which they are responsible in whole or part are (1) movements of the hyoid bone in mastication and deglutition, (2) movements of the thyroid cartilage, (3) movements of the tongue, (4) movements of the head, (5) movements of the shoulder, and (6) respiration. (1) Movements of the Hyoid Bone.—The hyoid bone is elevated or depressed, and moved forwards or backwards along with the lower jaw and tongue, in speech, mastication, and swallowing.