THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 898 Iho cominou stem now "^ivcs till' tla- I'ight siil)u]aviaii ailury, and l-ln-u coutinues as a single vessel for some distance before it divides into tlie two common carotids, of wliicli the left ci'osses in front of the trachea. Tliis an-angement is conuuun in many iinadruniana and in some other mammals. It is only very occasionally when the nnndier of l)ranches from tlie arch of the aorta is reduced to two, that these consist of a right subclavian artery and of a single stem common to the two carotids and the left subclavian arteries. In such cases, however, the right common carotid crosses in front of the trachea, and tlie variation is one of jjractical importance. It does not ajipear to exist as a normal condition in any mammal. Probably it is due to fusion of the ventral roots of the fourth aortic arclies, witli absorption of the left fourtli arch and the left sul)- clavian into the stem so formed, whilst tlu' I'ight subclavian is relatively disjilaced. The two common carotids may arise by a common stem, and the left subclavian arise separately from the arch of the aorta, whilst tlie right subclavian springs from tlie descending aorta. This arrangement jirobably results from t])e disappearance of the foui'th right arch and the fu.sion of the ventral roots of the fourth arches of op2>osite sides. Sometimes two innominate arteries, right and left, replace, the three usual branches of the arch of the aorta. This is the normal arrangement in bats, moles, and liedgehogs. It is ol>viously the result of tlie disapijearance of that portion of the arch which intervenes between the left carotid and left suljclavian arteries, and the consequent fusion of these two vessels. In a similar way may be explained the rarer condition in which the three ordinary branches of the arch arise l)y one single stem, which divides into right and left innominate arteries. In most ruminants, in the hor.se and in the tapir, this arrangement is constant. It will ])('. evident tliat other comljinations and modifications may l)e met witli in the liranclies of the arch of tlie aorta as the result of fusions and absorption. The bronchial arteries ol)viously correspond to splanchnic segmental arteries and their continuations to divi-rticula from the walls of the gut, tlierefore the usual origin of the right broncliial artery from the fir.st right aortic intercostal artery must result from the ])ersistence of an anastomosis between a splanchnic segmental artery and the first jjart of a somatic segmental artery; the origin of the right from the uiijier left bronchial artery, which sometimes occurs, is due to the fusion of the roots of two sjilauclinic segmental arteries. The occasional origin of a Ijroiichial ve.ssel from an internal mammary artery can only result from the persistence and enlargement of au anastomosis between a splanchnic segmental artery and the ventral branch of a somatic segmental artery. The origin of a bronchial branch from a subclavian artery may have the same or a different significance on ojiposite sides of the body. A Ijronchial artery arising from the left subclavian artery corresponds with the origin of tlu; liglit Ijronchial artery from the first aortic intercostal artery ; it is due to the persistence of an anastomosis between a s])lanc]inic -segmental artery and the root of a somatic segmental artery, and the origin of a Ijroiicliial artery from a right subclavian artery may be due to a similar cause. It may, on the otlier hand, be due to the enlargeuieiit of an anastomosis between a splanchnic branch of the descending aorta and a sj)lanchnic branch of the fourth right aortic arch. When, as occasionally happens, the bronchial artery arises from the inferior tl^'roid, it is due to tlie persistence and enlargement of an anastomosis between splanchnic arteries. -. Intercostal Arteries.—Variations of the intercostal arteries are not'very common, but they ai-e significant and interesting. Corresponding vessels of opposite sides may arise from a common stem wliich has been formed l)y the fusion of the roots of two somatic segmental arteries after or .simultaneously with the fusion of the primit ive dorsal aort;e. The number of intercostal arteries may be reduced, one artery sujiplying two or more intercostal sjiaces ; in these cases the roots of origin of some of the somatic .segmental arteries in the dorsal region have disappeared, and the precostal anastomoses lietween their ventral branches have persisted. Occasionally tlie number of the aortic intercostal arteries is increased, an additional artery being given to the second intercostal space, which is usually supplied l)y tlie superior iiiterco.stal artery ; this is brought aljout by the persistence of the root of tlie tenth somatic .segmental artery and the disapi)earance of the precostal anastomosis between the ventral branches of the ninth and tenth somatic segmental arteries. Very rarely the first aortic intercostal artery sends a liranch upwards between the necks of the ribs and the transverse in-ocesses of the upper dorsal region ; this branch supplies the upper intercostal s])aces, the superior intercostal artery being small or alisent, and it terminates by liecoming the jirofunda cervicis artery. It is due to the jiersi.stence of the jjostcostal anastomoses in tlie upper dor.sal region, and is a rejietition of a condition regularly present in some carnivores. There ai'e no very inijiortant \'ariations of tlie oesophageal, i)ericardial, and mediastinal arteries. Lumbar Arteries.—Variations of the lumbar arteries are very similar to those of the intercostal arteries, and they are due to similar causes. The lumbar arteries of opjjosite sides may ari.se by common stems from the back of the aorta; and the last pair of lumbar arteries may .arise in common with the middle .sacral artery. Further, a lumbar artery may have its area of distribut ion increased to the adjacent segment. The inferior phrenic arteries are very variable; they may arise by a common trunk either from the cccliac axis or from the aorta ; they may arise sejiarately either from tlie aorta or from the cooliac axis, and more commonly fi-oni the latter vessel; or again, one may spring from the aorta or cadiac axis, and tlie otlier from the coronary, renal, or even from the superior mesenteric artery. The middle sacral artery usually springs from the back of the aorta above its 1)1 furcation ;