THE SUBCLAVIAN AETERIES. 777 The first parts of the subclavian arteries differ materially froru each other both in extent and relations. The relations of the second and third parts are similar on both sides. The first part of the left subclavian artery springs from the arch of the aorta to the left of and behind the commencement of the left common carotid and on the left side of the trachea. It ascends, almost vertically, in the superior mediastinum to the root of the neck, where it arches upwards and outwards to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. Relations.—Posterior.—In the superior mediastinum, from below upwards, it is in relation behind and with the left margin of the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the left longus colli muscle. Anterior.—In front and to the right of the artery are the vagus, the left superior cardiac branch of the sympathetic, the left inferior cardiac branch of the vagus, the left phrenic nerve, and the left common carotid artery. It is also crossed obliquely by the left innominate vein above and by the left vagus nerve below, and it is overlapped on the left side by the left lung and pleura. Lateral.—Internally it is in relation, from below upwards, with the trachea, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, the oesophagus, and the thoracic duct. Externally it is closely invested by the left pleura, and it ascends in a groove on the inner aspect of the left lung. As it turns outwards at the root of the neck it lies behind the terminations of the internal jugular, vertebral, and subclavian veins, the phrenic nerve, the sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles, the anterior jugular vein, and more superficially the sterno-mastoid muscle, and the deep cervical fascia; the thoracic duct arches obliquely over it, and it lies in front of the apex of the pleural sac. The first part of tlie riglit subclavian artery (Fig. 552) extends from the back of the right sterno-clavicular articulation to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. It is thus limited to the root of the neck. Relations.—Posterior.—Behind this pai't of the artery, and intervening between it and the upper two dorsal vertebr;e, are the recurrent laryngeal nerve, the posterior part of the annulus Vieusseni, and the apex of the right pleural sac. Anterior.—In front it is in relation with the right vagus, the cardiac branches of the vagus and the sympathetic, the anterior portion of the annulus Vieusseni, the internal jugular and vertebral veins, and more superficially the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the anterior jugular vein, the sternal end of the clavicle, the sterno-clavicular ligaments, and the sterno- mastoid muscle. The recurrent laryngeal nerve passes beloiv it and intervenes between it and the apex of the pleural sac. The second part of the subclavian artery, on each side, extends from the inner to the outer border of the scalenus anticus, behind which it lies. Relations.—Behind and heloiv it is in relation with the pleiu'al sac. In front it is covered by the anterior scalene and the sterno-mastoid muscles. The anterior scalene separates it from the subclavian vein, which also lies at a slightly lower level, from the transverse cervical and suprascapular arteries, from the anterior jugular vein, and, on the right side, from the phrenic nerve. The third part of the subclavian artery is the most superficial portion. It extends from the outer border of the anterior scalene to the outer border of the first rib, lying partly in the clavicitlar portion of the posterior triangle and partly l)ehind the clavicle and the subclavius muscle. Relations.—It rests upon the upper surface of the first rib. Inunediately behind it is the lowest trunk of the brachial plexus, which separates it from the middle scalene. In front of it and at a slightly lower level lies the subclavian vein. The external jugular vein crosses the inner part of this portion of the artery in its course to the sub- clavian vein, and just before its termination receives the transverse cervical and supra- scapular veins; these vessels also pass superficial to the artery, which is thus covered by venous trunks ; it is also crossed vertically, behind the veins, by the nerve to the subclavius muscle. The outer section of this part of the artery lies behind the clavicle and the subclavius muscle, and it is crossed from within outwards by the suprascapular artery.