DIVISIONS OF A SPINAL NERVE. 567 wards in the spinal canal. The collection of nerve-roots which occupies the lower part of the canal below the lirst lumbar vertebra, and comprises all the nerve- roots below those of the first lumbar nerve, is designated the cauda eciuina. They arise from the lumbar enlargement and conns mednllaris, and surround the hlum terminale of the spinal cord. Within the spinal canal the nerve-roots are in relation with the meninges of the cord, and are separated from one another by the ligamentnm denticulatum, and, in the neck, by the spinal part of the spinal accessory nerve. Each receives a covering of pia mater, continuous with the neurilemma; the arachnoid invests each root as far as the point where it meets with the dura mater; the two roots, after piercing the dura mater separately, are enclosed by it in a single tubular sheath, in which is included tlie spinal ganglion of the dorsal root. Divisions of a Spinal Nerve.—The spinal nerve thus formed lies in the intervertebral foramen, except in the case of the first two cervical and the sacral and coccygeal nerves. It immediately divides into two primary divisions, named respectively the posterior and anterior primary divisions. Just before its divi- sion each nerve gives off a minute re- current branch, which re-enters the vertebral canal after effecting a jimction with a branch from the sympathetic cord, and is distributed to the spinal cord and its membranes. The posterior and anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerve are respon- sible for the innervation of the skeletal muscles and the skin covering the trunk and limbs. In relation to certain spinal nerves, a series of much smaller brandies exist which are con- nected with the sympathetic S5'stem (Fig. 421, SY), in a way to be described later. These con- stitute the white rami communicantes, and may be termed the visceral divisions of tlie sjjinal nerves. They are derived from the anterior primary divisions of the nerves, and receive their fibres mainly from the ventral roots, though, at least in the case of certain nerves, from the dorsal roots as well. These nerves are directed inwards from the intervertebral foramen over the vertebral column, and, be- coming connected Avith the symjDathetic cord, convey sjjinal fibres to the organs and tissues in the splanchnic area. The posterior and anterior primary divisions of the nerves contain fibres from both dorsal and ventral roots. Indeed each root can be seen on removal of its sheath to divide into two portions, of which one portion enters into the formation of the posterior, the .other into the formation of the anterior primary division. The posterior primary divisions, with the exception of the first two, are smaller than the anterior primary divisions. They supply in general the skin and muscles of the back. They do not supply muscles of the limbs; although in their cutaneous distribution they are prolonged on to the back of the liead, the shoixlder, and the buttock. They form two small plexuses, the posterior cervical and the posterior sacral plexuses. The anterior primary divisions are, witli the exception of the first two cervical nerves, much larger than the posterior primary divisions. They supply the sides and fore-parts of the body, the perineum, and the limbs. For the most part they have a complicated arrangement. The thoracic or inter- costal nerves alone have a simple mode of distribution; the other nerves give rise to the three great plexuses—cervical, brachial, and lumbo-sacral. Distribution of the Spinal Nerves.—The distribution, like the origin of the INTERNAL eXTER/VAL BRANCH SRANCH Fig. 421.—Scheme of the Distribution of a Typical Spinal Nerve.