269 THE SHOULDEE-JOINT. viz. a hollow cylinder. By its upper end the capsule is attached to the circum- ference of the glenoid fossa, external to the glenoid ligament, and also, to a consider- . able extent, to the glenoid ligament itself. By its lower end it is attached to the neck of the humerus, and therefore beyond the articular area of the head. The capsule is strongest on its superior aspect, while inferiorly, where the neck of the bone is least defined, it extends downwards for a short distance upon the humeral shaft. Its fibres for the most part run longitudinally, but a certain number of them pursue a circular direction. A prolongation of the capsule, the transverse humeral ligament presenting both longitudinal and transverse fibres, bridges that part of the bicipital groove which is situated between the tuberosities of the humerus. At this point an interruption in the capsule, beneath the transverse humeral ligament, permits the long tendon of the biceps to escape from its interior. In addition to the opening just referred . to, there is another very constant deficiency in the upper and anterior part of the capsule, where the narrowing tendon of the subscapularis muscle is brought into contact with a bursa formed by a protrusion of the synovial membrane. This defect in the capsule has its long axis in the direction of the longitudinal fibres. Occasionally ^here is a similar but smaller opening under cover of the tendon of the infraspinatus muscle. Through the two latter openings the joint cavity communicates with bursee situated between the capsule and the muscles re- ferred to. The tendons of the subscapularis, supraspinatus, and infraspinatus muscles fuse with, and so strengthen, the capsule as they approach their respective insertions. On the superior aspect of the articulation the capsule is augmented by an accessory structure, the ligamentum coraco-humerale (Fig. 208). By its inner end, which is situated immediately above the glenoid fossa, but subjacent to the coraco-acromial ligament, it is attached to the external border of the root of the coracoid process, while its outer end is attached to the humeral neck close to the great tuberosity. This Hgament forms a flattened band, having its hinder and lower border fused with the capsule, but its anterior and upper margin presents a free edge, slightly raised above the level of the cap- sule. This struc- ture is believed to represent that portion of the pectoralis minor to which refer- ence has already been made in con- nexion with the coraco - acromial ligamentr Glenoid cavity The coraco- glenoid ligament is another accessory structure which is not always present. It springs from the Fig. 209.- coracoid jDrocess along with the former- ligament, and extends to the upper and hinder margin of the head of the scapula. Gleno-humeral Ligaments (Fig. 209).—If the capsule be opened from behind, and the liead of the humerus be removed, it will be seen that the longitudinal fibres of the anterior 'part of the capsule are specially developed in the form of thick flattened bands which extend from the anterior border of the glenoid fossa to the anterior aspect of the neck of the liumerus. These gleno-humeral Coraco- -v Conoid clavicular Vm ■ i ligament /Trapezoid Coraco-acromial ligament Coracoid process Acromio- clavicular ligament ;leno-lmmeral ligament Superior i Bursal perforation in capsul Inferior Capsule of shoulder-joint Glenoid ligament -Capsular Ligament of Shoulder-joint cut across and HuMERtrs removed.