COMPONENT PARTS OF WHITE MATTER OF SPINAL CORD. 431 Component Parts of the White Matter of the Cord. The white matter of the cord is composed of medullated nerve-fibres embedded in neuroglia. The fibres, for the most part, pursue a longitudinal course; and from the deep surface of the pia mater which surrounds the cord fibrous septa or partitions are carried in along vertical planes between the fibres, so as to form an irregular and very imperfect fibrous framework of support. The neuroglia is disposed in a layer of varying thickness around the cord, subjacent to the pia mater, and is carried into the cord so as to give a coating to both sides of the various pial septa. The neuroglia also is disposed around the various nerve- fibres, so that each of these may be said to lie in a canal or tunnel of this substance. The nerve-fibres are all medullated, but they are not provided with primitive sheaths. It is the medullary substance of the nerve-fibres which gives to the white matter its opaque, milky-white appearance. When a thin trans- verse section of the cord is stained in carmine and examined under the microscope the white matter presents the appearance of a series of closely-applied circles, each with a dot in the centre. The dot is the transversely divided axis cylinder of a neive-fibre, and the dark ring which forms the circumference of the circle represents the wall of the neuroglial canal which is occupied by the fibre. The medullary substance is very faintly seen. It presents a filmy or cloudy appearance between the axis cylinder and the neuroglial ring. Arrangement of the Nerve-fibres of the White Matter in Strands or Tracts.—When the white matter of a healthy adult cord is examined the fibres which compose it are seen to vary considerably in point of size; and although there are special places where large fibres — or it may be small fibres — are present in greater numbers than elsewhere, .yet as a rule both great and small fibres are mixed up together. Absolutely no evidence can be obtained in such a cord, by any means at our disposal, of the fact that the longitudinally-arranged fibres are grouped together in more or less definite tracts or strands, the fibres of which run a definite course and present definite connexions. Yet we know this to be the case, and the existence of these separate tracts has been proved both by physiological and by embryological investigation. Tlie physiological evidence depends on the fact that when a nerve-fibre is severed the part which is detached from the nerve-cell from wliich it is an offslioot degenerates, wliilst the part which remains connected with the nerve-cell undergoes little or no change. This is called the law of " Wallerian " degeneration. Thus, if in a living animal one-lialf of the cord be cut across, and after a few weeks the animal be killed and the cord examined, it will be seen that there are degenerated tracts of fibres in the white matter, both above and below the plane of division ; but, still further, it will also be manifest that the tracts which are degenerated above the plane of division are not the same as those which are ■ degenerated in the part of the cord which lies below this level. The interpretation of this is obvious. The nerve-tracts which have degenerated aljove the plane of section are the offshoots of nerve-cells which lie in lower segments of the cord or in sjjinal ganglia below the plane of section. Severed from these nerve-cells, they undergo what is called ascending degeneration. The nerve-tracts, on the other hand, which have degenerated in the portion of the cord below the plane of division are the axons of cells which lie at a higher level than the plane of section, either in higher segments of the cord or in the brain itself. Cut oft' from the nerve-cells from which they proceed, they present an example of descending degeneration. The embryological evidence we owe to Flechsig, and it is no less satisfactory. It depends upon the fact that nerve-fibres in tlie earliest stages of their development consist of naked axis cylinders, and are not provided with medullary sheaths. Further, tlie nerve-fibres of different strands assume the medullary sheaths at dift'erent periods. By examining the footal cord at Fig. 321. — Transverse Section THROnOH THE WhITE MaTTER OF THE Cord, as seen through tlie microscope.