THE NERVOUS SYSTEAL 6o8 supplying branches (a) to the lachrymal gland, (b) to the conjunctiva, and. (c) to the skin of the outer canthus of the eye. The lachrymal nerve communicates in the orbit with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve, and on the face, by its terminal branches, with the temporal branches of the facial nerve (Fig. 458). The frontal nerve (n. frontalis), entering the orbital cavity through the sphenoidal fissure, courses forwards above the ocular muscles, and divides at a variable point into two branches—a larger supra-orbital and a smaller supra- trochlear nerve. The supra-orbital nerve (n. supra-orbitalis) passes directly forwards, and leaves the orbit through the supra-orbital groove or foramen to reach the fore- head. It gives off the following secondary branches: (1) the principal branches (rr. frontales) are distributed to the forehead and scalp, reaching backwards as far as the vertex ; (2) small branches supply the upper eyelid; and (3) twigs are distributed to the frontal sinus. On the fore- head the supra-orbital nerve communicates with the tem- poral branches of the facial nerve. The supra-trochlear nerve (n. supra-trochlearis) courses obliquely forwards and inwards over the tendon of the superior oblique muscle to reach the inner side of the supra-orbital arch. Leaving the cavity of the orbit, the nerve is distributed to the skin of the mesial part of the forehead, the root of the nose, and the inner canthus of the eye. It communicates with the infra- trochlear branch of the nasal nerve, either before or after leaving the orbital cavity. The nasal nerve (n. uaso- ciliaris) enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, Ijetween the heads of the ex- ternal rectus muscle, and be- tween the two divisions of the third nerve (Fig. 455, p. 635). It crosses the orbital • cavity oljliquely to reach tlie anterior ethmoidal foramen, lying in its course below the superior rectus and superior oblique muscles, and above the optic nerve and internal rectus muscle. By the anterior ethmoidal foramen the nerve is transmitted into the cranial cavity, ^vhere it lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. It enters the nasal cavity through the nasal fissure, and terminates by dividing into internal and external branches. The internal division supplies the mucous membrane over the upper and anterior part of the nasal septum (rr. niediales). The external branch, after supplying collateral offsets to the outer wall of the nose (rr. laterales), finally appears on the face between the nasal bone and lateral cartilage, and supplies branches to the skin of the lower part and tip of the nose. The branches of the nasal nerve may be divided into three sets, arising (a) in the orbit,, (h) in the nose, and (c) on the face. In the orbit the branches are given off in three situations—external to, over, and internal to the optic nerve, (a.) As the nasal nerve lies external to the optic nerve, - it gives off the long root of the ciliary ganglion (radix longa). (h) As it flc. 459.—sohe.mk of thk drstuibution of '['he ophthalmic Nekve. V.s, Trigeminal ueive, afferent root ; Mo, Efferent root ; (jr.(i, Gasserian ganglion ; M, Meningeal brancli ; I.C, Brancli to internal eai'otid artery ; Oph, Ophthalmic nerve ; S.M, Superior maxillary nerve ; I. M, Inferior maxillary nerve ; III, Communication to oculo- motor nerve ; IV, To trochlear nerve ; VI, To abducent nerve. Frontal nerve : f.s, Branches to frontal sinus ; S.o, Supra-orbital nerve ; S. t, Supra-trochlear nerve ; L, Branche.s to upper eyelid. Nasal nerve ; L.G, Long root to lenticular ganglion ; Sy, Root from sympathetic (on carotid artery) ; III, Short root from motor oc.uli nerve ; C, Short ciliary branches ; L.C, Long ciliary nerves : I.T, Infra-trochlear nervp ; E.N, External, and I.N, Internal nasal nerves. Lachrymal nerve ; 0, Orbital branch of superior maxillary nerve ; L.Gl, Lachrymal gland ; C, Conjunctival branch ; L. Branch to eyelids and face.