OSTEOLOGY. 150 the attachment of the temporal fascia. Commencing in front at the external angular process of the frontal, the crest sweeps upwards and backwards across the lower part of that bone, and then crossing the coronal suture—a point called the stephanion—it passes on to the parietal, over which it curves in the direction of its posterior inferior angle. Here it is continued on to the temporal bone, where it sweeps forward to form the supramastoid crest, which serves to separate the squamous from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone externally. Carried forward, this ridge is seen to become continuous with the upper border of the zygomatic arch over the external auditory meatus. In front, the temporal ridge separates the temporal fossa from the region of the forehead; above and behind, it bounds the temporal fossa which lies within its ciirve, and serves to separate that hollow from the surface of the calvaria which is overlain by the scalp. Above the level of the temporal lines the surfaces of the frontal and parietal bones are smooth, the latter exhibiting an elevation of varying prominence and position, but usually situated about the centre of the bone, called the parietal eminence (tuber parietale). A slight hollowing of the surface of the parietal behind and parallel to the coronal suture is not uncommon, and is referred to as the post-coronal depression. As seen in profile, the part of the calvaria behind and below the lambdoid suture is formed by the tabular part of the occipital bone. In line with the zygomatic arch this outline is interrupted by the external occipital protuberance or inion (protuber- antia occipitalis externa). The projection of this point is variable; but its position can usually be easily determined in the living. Passing forwards from it, and blending anteriorly with the posterior border of the mastoid process of the temporal bone is a rough crest, the superior curved line flinea nuchre superior), a little above which there is often a much fainter line, the highest curved line (linea nuchcB suprema); this affords attachment to the epicranial aponeurosis. These two lines serve to separate the part of the cranium above, which is covered by scalp, from that below which serves for the attachment of the fleshy muscles of the back of the neck, the latter surface (planum nuchale) being rough and irregular as contrasted with the smooth superior part (planum occipitale). The fulness of these two parts of the occipital bone varies much. There is frequently a pronounced bulging of the planum occipitale, and the position of the lambda can often be easily determined in the living; similarly the planum nuchale may be either com- paratively flat or else full and rounded. These differences are of course' associated with corresponding differences in the development of the cerebral and cerebellar lobes which are lodged in relation to the internal aspect of these parts of the bone. The further description of the planum nuchale is best deferred till the base of the skull (norma basalis) is studied. Temporal Fossa.—Within the limits of the temporal lines the side of the cranium slopes forwards, inwards, and downwards, thus leaving a considerable interval between its lower part and the zygomatic arch. This space or hollow is called the temporal fossa (fossa temporalis) ; bounded above and behind by the temporal lines, its inferior limit is defined by the level of the zygomatic arch. Deepest opposite the angle formed by the frontal and temporal processes of the malar bone, the fossa becomes shallow towards its circumference. Its floor, which is slightly concavo-convex from before backwards about mid-level, is formed above by the temporal surface (facies temporalis) of the frontal, behind by the anterior inferior angle (angulis sphenoidalis) of the parietal, as well as the lower portion of that bone, below the temporal crest; below and in front by the temporal surface of the great wing of the sphenoid, and behind and below l)y the squamous portion of the temporal bone. Inferiorly the floor is limited in front by the free inferior border of the great wing of the sphenoid, which forms the tipper boundary of the spheno-maxillary fissure; behind that, by a rough ridge, the infratemporal crest or pterygoid ridge (crista infratemporalis), which crosses the external surface of the great wing of the sphenoid, to become con- tinuous posteriorly with a ridge on the lower surface of the squamous temporal, from which the anterior root of the zygomatic process springs. In front the temporal fossa is separated from the orbit by the external angular process of the frontal above, and by the orbital process of the malar and its junction with the external border of the great wing of the sphenoid between the orbital and temporal