THE CEANIUM. 1165 Eeid's base line. If the centre of the trephme be placed at the mid-point of the line LA the anterior division will be reached above the canal and the ridge at the anterior inferior angle of the parietal; should the bleeding-point l)e lower down the trephine opening may be enlarged downwards along the line MA. The course of the posterior division may be indicated upon the surface by draw- ing a line backwards from the point M parallel to PK, that is to say, a finger's- breadth above the zygoma and the supra-mastoid crest. When the frontal branch of the anterior division is injured, the clot is in the fronto-temporal region, and involves more especially the motor area for the face, and, on the left side, Broca's con- volution ; when tlie anterior division is wounded, tlie clot, which is larger, involves the parieto- temporal region, and the motor symptoms are due to pressure upon the centres for the arm and face ; in injuries to the posterior division the clot overlies the parieto-occipital region, and the localising sym^jtoms are sensory (Kn.inlein). In more extensive meningeal hajmorrhage the clot may cover the greater part of the liemisphere. The superior longitudinal sinus, which enlarges as it extends backwards, occupies the mesial plane of the vertex from the glabella to the internal occipital pro- tuberance, where it opens into the torcular Herophili, and becomes continuous usually with the right lateral sinus. Opening into the sinus, especially in the posterior part of the parietal region, are the para-sinoidal sinuses, into which Pacchionian glands project. In opening the skull over the posterior part of the vertex, the edge of the trephine should be kept at least three-quarters of an inch from the mesial plane. The lateral sinus may be mapped out on the surface by drawing a line, slightly convex upwards, from a point a little above the level of the external occipital pro- tuberance to the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, at, or a little in front of, the point R, which forms the highest part of the arch of the sinus; from this point the upper border of the sinus follows the line PE for a distance of one inch, and then curves downwards and forwards to a point f in. below and behind the centre of the external auditory meatus, where it finally curves inwards and forwards to open into the jugular bulb, which occupies the jugular foramen. The anterior harder of the descending or mastoid p^ortion of the sinus may be mapped out by drawing a line VW from a point a finger's-breadtli behind the post- auricular point of the temporal crest to the anterior border of the tip of the mastoid process. In wounds of the sinus the hiemorrhage is very free, owing to the inability of its walls to collapse, but the bleeding is easily controlled by plugging. Of the cerebral arteries, the middle supplies almost the whole of the motor area, and one of its lenticulo-striate branches, which enters the brain at the anterior perforated space, is called " the artery of cerebral haemorrhage " from the frequency of its rupture in apoplexy. The extravasated blood involves the motor part of the internal capsule. The postero-mesial central branches of the posterior cerebral artery, which enter the brain at the posterior perforated spot, supply the optic thalamus and walls of the third ventricle; haemorrhage from one of these branches is apt to rupture into the ventricle. The postero-lateral central branches of the posterior cerebral artery supply the optic thalamus, and when one of these vessels ruptures the hsemorrhage is apt to invade the posterior or sensory part of the internal capsule. Ear.—The skin covering the outer surface of the auricle is tightly ])Ound down to the perichondrium, hence inflammations of it are attended with little swelling but much pain. The posterior auricular artery, which ascends along the groove at the posterior attachment of the auricle, is immediately anterior to the incision for opening the mastoid antrum. The external auditory canal, the general direction of which is downwards, for- wards, and inwards, possesses various curves of practical importance. The highest part of the upward convexity, which is also the narrowest part of the canal, is situated at the centre of its osseous portion ; beyond this the floor sinks to form a recess in which foreign bodies are liable to be imprisoned. Of the two horizontal curves the outer is convex forwards, the inner concave forwards. The skin of the osseous portion of the canal is thin and fused'with the periosteum, hence when