THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 620 membrane, find their way into the mesoblastic tissue on tiie ventro-lateral surface of the tube. Fibrous from their earliest origin and derived from nerve-cells which remain within tlie medullary tube, the ajCons of which the ventral root is composed become surrounded by mesoblastic cells immediately on their emergence, which give rise to the sheaths of the nerve. The ventral root is a little later in its date of appearance than the dorsal root. It begins to be evident at tiie twenty-fourth day and is completely formed by the twenty- eighth day. II. Formation of the Spinal Nerve.—The fibres of the dorsal root ganglion and the ventral root grow by extension from the cells with which they are respectively con- nected, and meet in the space between the myotome and the side of the medullary tube to form tlie spinal nerve. It has been already shown that in the adult there is a funda- mental division of tlie spinal nerve into posterior and anterior primary divisions. In the process of development this separation is even more obvious. As the fibres of the dorsal and ventral roots approximate, they separate at the same time each into two unequal portions : the smaller parts of tlie two roots luiite together to form the posterior, and the larger parts unite to form tlie anterior primary division of the spinal nerve. The posterior primary division, curving outwards and dorsally, passes through the myotome and is connected with it. In the substance of the myotome it separates into branches as it proceeds towards the dorsal wall of the embryo. At a later stage, the branches are definitely arranged into an outer and an inner set. The anterior primary division grows gradually in a ventral direction to reach the somato-splancimoplcuric angle, under cover of tlie growing myotome. It spreads out at its distal end and eventually separates into two portions : a smaller, splanchnic, or visceral ; and a larger, somatic, or parietal portion. (1) The smaller, splanchnic, or visceral portion grows inwards, dorsal to the Wolffian ridge, to bo connected with the sympathetic cord and the innervation of organs in the splanchnic area. This branch of the spinal nerve becomes the white ramus communicans of the sympathetic. It is not present in the case of all the spinal nerves (cervical, lower lumbar, and upper sacral). It will be referred to again in connection with the sympathetic system. (2) The larger, somatic, or parietal portion becomes the main part of the anterior primary division of the nerve. It continues the original ventral course of the nerve, and, reaching the body wall, sub- divides into two terminal branches—a lateral branch, which grows outwards and down- wards and reaches the lateral aspect of the trunk, after piercing the myotome; and a ventral or anterior branch, which grows onwards in the body wall to reach the ventral axis. This arrangement is met with in the trunk between the liinbs and in the neck. III. Formation of Limb-plexuses.—The method of growth of the spinal nerves, just described, is modified in the regions where the limbs are developed. In relation to the limbs, which exist in the form of buds of cellular undifferentiated mesoblast before the spinal nerves have any connection with them, the development of the nerve proceeds exactly in the way described up to the point of formation of somatic and splanchnic branches. The somatic branches then stream out into the limb bud, passing into it below the ends of the myotomes and spreading out into a bundle of fibres at the basal attachment of the limb. Later on, the nerves separate each into a pair of definite trunks, which are named dorsal and ventral, and which, dividing round a central core of meso- blast, proceed to the dorsal and ventral surfaces respectively of the limb bud. While this process is going on, a semndanj union takes place between (parts of) adjacent dorsal and ventral trunks. Dorsal trunks unite with dorsal trunks, ventral trunks unite with ventral trunks, to form the nerves distributed ultimately to the surfaces and periphery of the limb. These dorsal and ventral trunks are homologous with the lateral and ventral branches of the somatic nerves in other regions. Morphology of the Limb-plexuses. The arrangement of tlie limb nerves is rendered complex and the significance of the plexuses is obscured by the changes tlirougli which, coincidently, the nerves on the one hand and the parts sujjplied Ijy them on the other hand have j^assed in the course of develo])iiient. Nature of the Limbs.—As already described, the nianimalian limbs arise as flattened buds from the extremities of the "Wolffian ridge. Each bud possesses a iireai^ial and a ■posluxial border, liud ;i dorml Lind ix ventral suz/cuv, continuous with the dorsal and ventral aspects of the trunk and lioniologous witli its lateral and ventral surfaces. Each bud consists at first of a mass of unditt'erentiated, unsegiiiented mesoblast, covered by eintheliuni. Around the central core of mesoblast which produces the skeletal axis, the vessels and muscles of the limb are formed in situ, the muscles as doulile dorsal and ventral strata, beneath the corresponding surfaces of the bud. Each limb bud is connected to the lateral and ventral aspects of the trunk, and is associated with a number of body segments, varying in tlic two extremities and in different animals.