CEANIOLOGY. 173 superior and inferior maxillae become absorbed owing to the loss of the teeth. This gives rise to a flattening of the vault of the hard palate and an alteration in the form of the lower jaw, whereby the mandibular angle becomes more obtuse. CRANIOLOGY. The various groups of mankind display in their physical attributes certain features which are more or less characteristic of tlie stock to which they belong. Craniology deals with these differences so far as they affect the skull. The method whereby these differences are recorded involves the accurate measurement of the skull in most of its details. Such procedure is included under the term craniometry. Here only the outlines of the subject are briefly referred to ; for such as desire fuller information on tlie subject, the works of Broca, Toj)inard, Flower, and Turner may be consulted. The races of man display great variations in regard to the size of the skull. Apart altogether from individual differences and the proportion of head-size to body-height, it may be generally assumed that the size of the skull in the more highly civilised races is much in excess of that displayed in lower types. The size of the head is intimately correlated with the develop- ment of the brain. By measuring the capacity of that part of the skull occupied by the encephalon, we are enabled to form some estimate of the size of the brain. The cranial capacity is determined by filling the cranial cavity with some suitable material and then taking the cubage of its contents. Various methods are employed, each of which has its advantage. The use of fluids, which of course would be the most accurate, is rendered impracticable, without sjDecial precautions, owing to the fact that the macerated skull is pierced by so many foramina. As a matter of practice, it is found that leaden shot, glass beads, or seeds of various sorts are the most serviceable. The results obtained display a considerable range of variation. For purposes of classification and comparison, skulls are grouped according to their cranial capacity into the following varieties:— Microcephalic skulls are those with a capacity below 1350 c.c, and include such well-known races as Andamanese, Veddahs, Australians, Bushmen, Tasmanians, etc. Mesocephalic skulls range from 1350 c.c. to 1450 c.c, and embrace examples of the following varieties : American Indians, Chinese, some African Negroes. Megacephalic skulls are those with a capacity over 1450 c.c, and are most commonly met with in the more highly civilised races : Mixed Europeans, Japanese, Eskimo, etc. Apart from its size, the form of the cranium has been regarded as an important factor in the classification of skulls; though whether these differences in shaj)e have not been unduly em- phasised in the past is open to question. The relation of the breadth to the length of the skull is expressed by means of the cephalic index which records the proportion of the maximum breadth to the maximum length of the skull, assuming the latter equal 100, or— Max.length xl00^^,^^j^^^^ .^^^^ Max. breadth The results are classified into three groups :— 1. Dolichocephalic, with an index below 75 : Australians, Kaffirs, Zulus, Eskimo, Fijians. 2. Mesaticephalic, ranging from 75 to 80 : Europeans (mixed), Chinese, Polynesians (mixed). 3. Brachycephalic, with an index over 80 : Malays, Burmese, American Indians, Anda- manese. In order to provide for uniformity in the results of different observers, some system is neces- sary by which the various points from which the measurements are taken must corresjjond. Whilst there is much difference in the value of the measurements insisted on by individual anatomists, all agree in endeavouring to select such points on the skull as may be readily deter- mined, and which have a fairly fixed anatomical position. The more important of these " fixed points " are included in the subjoined table :— Nasion.—The middle of the naso-frontal suture. Glabella.—A point midway between the two superciliary ridges. Ophryon.—The central point of the narrowest transverse diameter of the forehead, measured from one temporal line to the other. Inion.—The external occipital protuberance. Maximum Occipital Point.—The point on the occipital squama in the sagittal plane most distant from the glabella. Opisthion.—The middle of the posterior margin of the foramen magnum. Basion.—The middle of the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. Bregma.—The point of junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures. Alveolar Point.—The centre of the anterior margin of the upper alveolar margin. Subnasal Point.—The middle of the inferior border of the anterior nasal aperture at the centre of the nasal spine. Vertex.—The summit of the cranial vault.