THE ARTICULATIONS OR JOINTS. ARTHROLOGY. By David Hepburn. Arthrology is that branch of human anatomy which treats of the articulations or joints. An articulation or joint constitutes a mode of union or connexion subsisting between any two separate segments or parts of the skeleton, whether osseous or cartilaginous, and having for its primary object either the preservation of a more or less rigid continuity of the parts joined together or else to permit of a variable degree of mobility, subject to the restraints of the uniting media. Classification of Joints.—In attempting to frame a classification of the numerous joints in the body, several considerations must be taken into account, viz. the manner and sequence of their appearance in the embryo; the nature of the uniting media in the adult, and also the degree and kind of movement permitted in those joints where movement is possible. In this way we obtain two main subdivisions of joints :— (1) Those in which the uniting medium is coextensive with the opposed sur- faces of the bones entering into the articulation, and in which a direct union of these surfaces is thereby effected. (2) Those in which the uniting medium has undergone more or less of interrup- tion in its structural continuity, and in which a cavity of greater or less extent is thus formed in the interior of the joint. To the first group belong all the immovable joints, many of which are likewise of temporary duration; to the second group belong all joints which possess as their outstanding features mobility and permanence. 1 - '-^f ^Intervening membrane SYNARTHROSES. The general characteristics of this group are partly positive and partly nega- tive. Thus there is uninterrupted union between the opposed surfaces of the bones joined together at the plane of the articulation, i.e. there is no trace of a joint cavity, and further, there is an entire absence of movement. Develop mentally, these joints result from the approxi- mation of ossific processes which have commenced from separate centres of ossification, and therefore the nature of the uniting medium varies according as the bones thus joined together have originally ossified in membrane or in cartilage. In the former case, union is effected by an interposed fibrous membrane continuous with and corresponding to the periosteum. To such articulations the term suture (Fig. 193) is applied. In the latter case, the uniting medium is a plate of hyaline cartilage. Such articulations are called synchondroses (Fig. 194). In all the synchondroses, and in many of the sutures, the uniting medium tends to disappear in the progress of Fig. 193.—Vketical Section THROUGH A SdTUEE.