1100 UEOr^ENTTAL SYSTEM. The term posterior false (or peritoneal) ligaments is often applied to the some- what variable crescentic folds of peritoneum which bound the entrance to the recto-vesical pouch on each side, and which often l)ecome continuous across the middle line, behind the posterior l )order of the bladder and the vasa deferentia. They represent the folds of Douglas in the female, and are to be looked upon as eon- Uracliiis Vh:. 748.—View lookin(; into the Male Pelvis from above and somewhat behin.u. Kiom a specimen in which the bladder was firmly coutracteil and contained but a small amount of fluid. The paravesical fossa is .seen on each side of the bladder. The deep peritoneal poucli in front of the rectum is bounded by marked crescentic fohls, which meet together some distance behind the posterioi- border of the bladder. nexions of the vasa deferentia rather than of the bladder. Tlie folds are seen in Figs. 748 and 749. In the female the peritoneum is reflected from tho. upper surface of the );)lHdder posteriorly on to the anterior aspect of the uterus. The peritoneum covering the upper surface of the empty or partly distended bladder often exhibits a transversely-disposed, fold or wrinkle, to which the term plica vesicalis transversa has been applied. This fold, when well developed, can be traced on to the side wall of the pelvis, whei'e it traverses the fossa pai'avesicalis, and in some cases it is found to cross the pelvic brim and to be dii-ected towards the internal alidominal ring (Figs. 748 and 749). Fixation of the Bladder.—When the fibrous cord of the urachus (ligamentum umbilicale medium), which binds the bladder apex to the anterior abdominal wall and the peritoneal folds, already described as the false ligaments, are severed, the bladder is easily moved about, except in its lower and basal parts. The lower fixed part is chiefly held in place by processes of the pelvic fascia, continuous with those forming the ca.psule of the prostate. The fascial connexions constitute the true