346 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. trochanter of the femur to the linea aspera, and to the upper fourth of the linea aspera itself. The adductor brevis is the central muscle of the adductor group. It is almost wholly concealed by the pectineus and adductor longus. It rests upon the adductor magnus; at its upper border is the obturator externus, separated from it by the internal circumflex artery; at the lower border is the adductor longus, separated by the deep femoral artery. It separates the superficial and deep parts of the obturator nerve in their course down the thigh. BramOi to femoral artery Gracili.s Fro. 254.—Scheme of the Course and Distribution op the Obturator Nerve. The adductor magnus, the largest of the adductor group, is a roughly tri- angular muscle arising by a curved origin from the lower part of the outer border of the ischial tuberosity and the edge of the pubic arch, its most anterior fibres arising between the obturator externus and adductor brevis. Its upper fibres are directed horizontally outwards from the pubis towards the upper part of the femur; the lowest fibres are directed downwards from the ischial tuberosity to the internal condyle of the femur; while the intermediate fibres radiate obliquely outwards and downwards. The muscle is inserted (1) into the space below the insertion of the quadratus femoris, above the linea aspera; (2) into the whole length of the linea aspera; (3) into the internal supracondyloid ridge of the femur; and (4) into the internal condyle of the femur. The part of the muscle attached to the space above the linea aspera is often separated from the rest as the adductor minimus. The attachment of the muscle into the supracondyloid ridge is inter- rupted for the passage of the femoral vessels to the popliteal space. The attachment to the internal condyle is by means of a strong tendon which receives the fibres arising from the ischium (the part of the muscle associated with the hamstring group). This tendon is closely connected with the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The adductor magnus intervenes between the other adductor muscles in front and the hamstring muscles behind. It is concealed anteriorly by the pectineus,