823 THE ANTEEIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. between the tendon of the extensor proprius halhicis and the innermost tendon of the extensor longus digiti^rum. The anterior tibial nerve is at first well to the outer side of the artery, but it soon passes in front of the vessel, and it lies upon the artery in its middle third; lower down the nerve is usually found on the outer side again, and at the ankle it intervenes between the artery and the innermost tendon of the extensor longus digitorum. Two Yence comites, with numerous intercommunications, accompany the artery. Obviously the anterior til.iial artery is, at least in its upper part, deeply placed ; moreover, its lateral muscular boundaries overlap it. In the greater part of its extent it is, however, easily accessible from the surface; and beyond being crossed by the nerve and tendon, as already described, is only covered, in addition, by skin, fascia, and the anterior annular ligament. Branches.—Close to its origin the artery gives off superior fibular and posterior tibial recurrent branches; after it reaches the front of the leg it gives off anterior tibial recurrent, muscular, cutaneous, internal malleolar, and external malleolar branches. (1) The superior fibular branch is a small vessel wliich may arise separately from the antci'ior tibial artery, or by a common stem with the posterior tibial recurrent; occasion- ally it springs from the lower end of the popliteal artery, or from the posterior tibial. It runs upwards and outwards behind tlie neck of the fibula and through the fibres of tiie soleus, and it terminates in branches which supply the soleus, the peroneus longus, and the skin of the upper and outer part of the leg. It anastomoses with the inferior external articular artery. (2) The posterior tibial recurrent branch (a. recurrens tibialis posterior), also small, and not always present, runs upwards in front of the popliteus muscle to the back of the knee-joint. It anastomoses with tlie inferior articular bi'anches of the popliteal, and gives branches to the popliteus muscle and the superior tibio-fibular articulation. (.3) The anterior tibial recurrent branch (a. recurrens tibialis anterior) arises from the antei'ior tibial artery in front of the interosseous membrane. It runs upwards and inwaixls, between the upper part of the tibialis anticus and tlie outer tuberosity of the tibia, accompanied by the recurrent articular branch of the external popliteal nerve, and after supplying the tibialis anticus and the superior tibio-fibular articulation it pierces the deep fascia of the leg ; it is connected with the anastomoses round the knee-joint formed by the articular branches of the popliteal artery, the descending branch of the external circumflex artery, and the anastomotic artery. (4) The muscular branches are distributed to the muscles of the front of the leg, and a few small Ijranches also pass' backwards to the deep surface of the tibialis posticus muscle. (5) The cutaneous branches supply the skin of the front of the leg. (6) The intirnal malleolar branch (a. malleolaris anterior medialis) arises from the lower part of the anterior tibial artery, and is smaller than its companion on the outer side. It runs inwards, beneath the tibialis anticus tendon, ramifies over the internal malleolus, anastomosing with branches of the posterior tibial artery, and is distributed to the skin and to the ankle-joint. (7) The external malleolar branch (a. malleolaris anterior lateralis), more constant and larger than the internal, passes outwards beneath the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius towards the external malleolus. It anastomoses with the anterior peroneal and tarsal arteries, and supplies the ankle-joint and the adjacent articulations. Dorsalis Pedis Artery (a. dorsalis pedis).—The dorsal artery of the foot is the direct continuation of the anterior tibial; it commences opposite the front of the ankle-joint, and extends to the posterior extremity of the first interosseous space, where it passes to the plantar aspect of the foot, and, anastomosing with the termination of the external plantar artery, completes the plantar arch. It is covered superficially by skin and fascia, including the inferior part of the anterior annular ligament, and it is crossed, just before it reaches the first inter- osseous space, by the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. It rests upon the anterior ligament of the ankle, the head of the astragalus, the astragalo- navicular ligament, the dorsum of the navicular bone, the dorsal naviculo- cuneiform and the inter-suneiform ligaments between the internal and middle cuneiform bones. On its outer side is the internal terminal branch of the anterior