987 DEVELOPMENT OF THE PHAEYNX. inner wall by the aryteno-epiglottic fold, and slightly below by the upper part of the cricoid cartilage. Vessels and Nerves of the Pharynx.—The arteries of the ^jharynx are derived from—1, tlie ascending pliaryngeal; 2, tlie ascending palatine liranch of facial; 3, the posterior palatine, from the internal maxillary, with a few twigs from the dorsalis lingnse, tonsillar (of facial), vidian, and pterygo-palatine of the internal maxillary. The veins go to the pharyngeal venous plexus, which is found between tlie constrictors and the bucco-pharyngeal aponeurosis. The ])lexus communicates with the pterygoid jilexus above and with the internal jugular or facial vein below. The lymphatics of the pharynx pass chiefly to the upper set of deep cervical glands. Those from the ujjper part of the posterior wall join a few post-pharyngeal glands which are found on eacli side Ijetween the pharynx and the rectus anticus major muscle. These latter glands, which are large in the child, small in the adult, but apparently always present (Fig. 664), are of con- siderable clinical intei'est, as they often form the starting-point of post-pharyngeal abscess. The nerves of the pharynx, liotli motor and sensory, are derived chiefly from the pharyngeal plexus, which is formed by branches of the vagus, glosso-pharyngeal, and sympathetic. The soft palate and the neighbourhood of the tonsil are supjjlied by the posterior and external jialatine branches of Meckel's ganglion. Tlie tonsil receives a branch from the glosso-pharyngeal direct. The vault of the pharynx, and the region around the Eustachian orifice, as well as the orifice itself, are supplied by the pharyngeal branch of Meckel's ganglion. Finally, the superior laryngeal nerve supplies the mucous membrane of the back of the larynx, where it forms the anterior wall of the laryngeal portion of the pharynx. Structure of the Pharyngeal Wall.—The pharyngeal wall is made up of tlic following layers:—(1) The thick mucous membrane, which is plentifully supplied with racemose mucous glands, and lymphoid tissue, and is lined by stratified squamous epithelium, except in the naso pharynx, where the epithelium is columnar and ciliated. (2) Outside the mucous membrane lies a layer of firm connective tissue, the pharyngeal aponeurosis, which is closely associated with the muscles, and receives the insertions of many of their fibres. This layer blends with the periosteum of the base of the skull superiorly, and is united to the Eustachian tube, the margins of the posterior nares, and the other fixed points to which the pharynx is connected anteriorly. It is thickest above, at the sinuses of Morgagni, where the muscular coat is wanting, and where it forms the chief constituent of the pharyngeal wall. Below, it gradually grows thinner as the lower end of the pharynx is approached. (3) External to the pharyngeal aponeurosis lies the muscular coat, formed of the three constrictors with the stylo- and palato-pharyngeus. The muscular coat is covered externally by (4) the bucco-pharyngeal fascia, a thin and, in places, ill-defined layer of fascia which surrounds the constrictors of the pharynx, and passes forward above to cover the outer surface of the buccinator. It is connected behind to the prevertebral fascia by loose connective tissue (the retro-pharyngeal space), and it is similarly connected by areolar tissue to the other structures with which the pharjuix comes in contact. The racemose glands of the mucous membrane, which are of the mucous tyjje, are very numerous in the walls of the naso-pharynx and in the soft palate, where they form a thick continuous layer. They are also numerous about the aryteno-epiglottic folds and on the back of the arytenoid muscles in the laryngeal portion of the pharynx. Over the rest of this cavity, though numerous, they are not so thickly placed as in the regions just mentioned. The lymphoid tissue, either in a diffuse form or collected into lymphoid follicles, is found throughout the whole of the mucous membrane. As already pointed out, it is particularly abundant on the upper portion of the posterior wall of the naso- pharynx, where it forms the pharyngeal tonsil. The pharyngeal aponeurosis, which is thick above and thin below, and the bucco- pharyngeal fascia, which is thin above and stouter below, are practically blended into one layer above, near the base of the skull, where the muscular coat is absent. Lower down they are separated by the constrictors, and become two distinct sheets. They are strengthened in the middle line posteriorly by a fibrous band descending from the pharyngeal tubercle. Development of the Pharynx and Tonsil. For the development of the pharynx from the anterior portion of the foregut, and the formation and fate of the visceral arches and clefts which are found in its wall, the reader is referred to the chajiter on Genenil Embryology, p. 32. The anterior palatine arch is derived from the second visceral arch, behind which, in the embryo, lies the pharyngeal portion of the second visceral cleft. This cleft is crossed