THE EESriKATOKY SYSTEM. 934 colour is a light slate-l)lue, but scattered over this there are numerous dark patches of various sizes, and also dark intersecting lines. The coloration of the lung differs consideral)ly at different periods of life. In early childhood the lung is rosy-pink, and the darker colour and the mottling of the surface which appear later are due to the pulmonary sul)stance, and chiefly the interstitial areolar tissue becoming impregnated more or less completely with atmospheric dust and minute particles of soot. At every breath foreign matter of this kind is inhaled, but only a small projjortion of it reaches the lung tissue. The greater part of it becomes entangled in the slimy mucus which coats the mucous memln'ane of tlie larger air-passages, and is gradually got rid of along witli the mucus through the activity of the cilia attaclied to the lining eijitlielium. By the constant upward sweep of these a current towards the pharynx is established. The fine dust and soot particles which reach the finer recesses of the lungs, and adtimately the interstitial issue, is partly conveyed away by the lymphatic vessels , to the bronchial glands, which in consequence become in many cases absolutely black. The colour of the lung, therefore, dej^ends to some extent upon the purity of the atmo^plxefe which is inhaled, and it thus hapjiens that in coal- miners the surface of the lung may be veryJnearly uniformly l)lack. The foetal lung differs in a marked degree from the lung in an individual who has breathed. After respiration is fully estaldished, the lung soon comes to occupy almost the whole space allotted to it in the pleural cavity; in the foetus, on the other hand, the lung is packed away at the back, and occupies a relatively much smaller amount of space in the thoracic cavity. Further, it is firm to the touch, and sinks in water. It is only when air and an increased supply of 1dood are introduced into the lung that it assumes the soft spongy and Inioyant qualities which are characteristic of the adult lung. Form of the Lungs.—The lungs are accurately adapted to the walls of the pleural chamliers in which they are placed, and in the natural state they bear on Fic. 032.—Mediastixau Sukkacks of the two Ld.\'i:s of A, Right Inng. Groove for vena azygos major. 1. Base. •2. Fissure. 3. Cardiac ilepression. 4. Groove for innominate vein. 5. Groove for innominate artery. 6. Apex pulmonis. S. Eparterial bronchus 9. Pulmonary artery (riHlit). 10. Fissure. 11. Groove for aorta. 12. Bronchus. A Subject hardened by Formalin-injection. B, Left lung. 13. Pulmonary artery (left). 14. Apex pulmonis. IT). Groove for left subclavian artery. 16. Groove for left innominate vein. 17. Cardiac dejiression 18. Fissure. 10. Base. the surface impressions and elevations which are an exact counterpart of the irregularities on the walls of the cavity in which they lie. When care has been taken to harden it i7i situ, each lung presents an apex