1193 THE BACK. which is the situation at which the stethoscope is placed in order to hear the .sound produced by the passage of fluid into the stomach. Clinically it is important to bear in mind the relation of tlie cesopliagu.s to the trachea and bronchi (especially to the left bronchuis), to the left reciu'i'ent laryngeal nerve, to tlie lironchial and posterior mediastinal glands, to the descending thoracic aorta, and to the right posterior mediastinal pleura. Ulcers of the oesophagus are liable to open into either the trachea, the left bronchus, or the light pleura. The veins of the lower end of the oesophagus open partly into the systemic veins and partly into the portal system ; like those at the lower end of the rectum they are liable to become varicose in conditions which give rise to chronic interference with the portal circulation. The lymphatics of the upper part of the oesoj^hagus open into the lower carotid glands, the remainder into the posterior mediastinal glands. The oesophagus is very distensible in the transverse but not in the antero-posterior direction, hence the most useful forceps for removing foreign bodies from the CESophagus are those which open laterally. THE BACK. In the middle line of the back is the spinal furrow, which is deepest in the lower dorsal and upper lumbar regions, where the erectores spin^e muscles are most prominent. Over the upper sacral region, where the erectores spinEe muscles are tendinous, is a flattened area forming an equilateral triangle, the angles of which correspond respectively to the posterior superior spines of the two ilia,c bones and the third sacral spine. The vertebral spines can be palpated at the bottom of the spinal furrow; they become more distinct when the spine is flexed, and, as pointed out l)y Holden, they become mapped out by reddened areas when friction is applied along the furrow. The identiflcation and counting of the spines will be facilitated if ■ it be remembered that the first dorsal is more prominent than the vertebra prominens (seventh cervical), that the third dorsal is on a level with the root of the spine of the scapula, the seventh dorsal with its inferior angle, the fourth lumbar with the highest part of the iliac crest, and the second sacral with the posterior superior iliac spine. Above the spine of the scapula is the suprascapular region, which is padded by a. thick mass of muscle consisting of the supra-spinatus and levator anguli scapulre, covered by the upper part of the trapezius; the two latter muscles may be thrown into relief by shrugging the shoulders. In the interscapular region are the rhomboid muscles, which are thrown into prominence by bracing back the shoulders. Below the inferior angle of the scapula the last five ribs can readily be felt external to the erector spina? muscle; when the twelfth rib does not reach beyond this muscle, the eleventh rib will be mistaken for it, unless the ribs be counted from above downwards. The lower border of the trapezius is indicated by a line extending upwards and outwartls from the twelfth dorsal spine to the root of the spine of the scapula; the upper border of the latissimus dorsi by a line extending from the sixth dorsal spine transversely outwards across the angle of the scapula. Between these two muscles and the lower part of the vertebral border of the scapula is a triangular area, the floor of which is formed by the rhomlioideus major muscle and the sixth costal interspace. The outer border of the erector spinas is indicated on the surface by drawing a line from a point on the iliac crest 3| in. (four fingers' breadth) from the middle line, upwards and slightly outwards to the angles of the ril:)s. The outer border of the quadratus lumborum, which passes upwards and slightly inwards, lies a little external to that of the erector spinae at the crest, and a little internal to it at the twelfth rib. The anatomy of the muscles and fascite which complete the abdominal wall between the last rib and the iliac crest is of great importance in connexion with operations in the region of the loin. The space between the last rib and the iliac crest varies greatly according to the length of the former, and according to the general shape of the chest and slope of the ribs. As a rule, the tip of the twelfth rib lies about two inches vertically above the centre of the iliac crest. From a surgical