THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. G18 The dorsal nerve of the penis, the other terminal branch of the pudic nerve, accompanies the internal pudic artery beneath the superficial layer of the triangular ligament. It passes forward close to the pubic arch, lying beneath the crus and erector penis (or clitoridis), and triangular ligament, and upon the compressor urethne muscle; piercing the triangular ligament near its apex, at the outer side of the dorsal artery of the penis (or clitoris), it passes on to the dorsum of the penis or clitoris, to which it is distributed in its distal two-thirds, sending branches round the sides of the organ to reach its under surface. In the female the nerve is much smaller than in the male. The dorsal nerve of the penis supplies one branch, the nerve to the corpus cavernosum, as it lies beneath the triangular ligament. This is a slender nerve, which, piercing the triangular ligament, supplies the erectile tissue of the crus and corpus cavernosum. Morphology of the Pudendal Plexus.—Tlie structme.s occupying the perineum are placed in the ventral axis of the liody, and comprise from above downwards the penis and scrotum, or mons Veneris and vulva, the central point of the perineum, tlie anus and ischio-rectal fossa, and the coccyx. Tliey are placed on the inner side of the attachment of the lower limbs—the penis or mons Veneris in relation to tlie preaxial border ; the coccj'x in relation to the postaxial border of the limb. The nerves of the perineum, thus reaching the ventral axis of the trunk, are homologous with tlie anterior (ventral) terminations of other nerves. They are seiKirated into two series. Mainly supplied through the pudendal plexus by the last four sacral and the coccygeal nerves, the perineum is also innervated to a minor extent by the first lumbar nerve through the ilio-inguinal nerve, which reaches the root of the penis and tlie scrotum. The iDerineum is thus supplied by two series of widely separated nerves, which have their meeting-place on the dorsum and side of the penis and scrotum. This junction of the ilio-inguinal and pudendal nerves constitutes the beginning of the ventral axial area or line, which extends peripherally down the inner side of the lower lind). Apart from this break in their distribution, a definite numerical order may be followed in the arrangement of the perineal nerves. The higher parts of the perineum are in- nervated by the higher sjjinal nerves ; tlie lower parts, by the lower nerves. This is best exemplified in the distribution of the cutaneous nerves. The Ijase of the penis and scrotum (or mons Veneris) is supplied by the first lumbar nerve (ilio- inguinal). The dorsal nerve of the jienis (or clitoris), when traced back to the pudendal plexus, is Ibund to come from the second, and to a less extent from the third sacral nerves; the scrotal nerves (perineal branches of tlie i)udic and small sciatic) similarly arise from the third, and to a less extent from the second sacral nerves ; the skin of the ischio-rectal fossa and anus is innervated by the inferior h;emorrhoidal (third and fourth sacral nerves), and the perineal branch of the fourth sacral nerve. The coccygeal ple.xus, lastly, supplies the skin round the coccyx (fourth and fifth sacial and coccygeal nerves). Judged from its nerve supply the perineum is to be regarded as occupying, for the most ])art, a position below or more caudal than that of the lower limb in relation to the trunk. There is here a remarkable gap in the numerical sequence of the nerves supplying the ventral axis of the body. All the nerves between tlie first lumbar and the second sacral fail to reach the middle line of the trunk anteriorly and aiv wliolly concerned in the innervation of the lower liml). At the preaxial border of the liml) (groin) tlie first lumliar nerve, the liighest nerve supplying tlie perineum, is concerned also in innervating tlie .skin of the liml). At the postaxial border of the limb (fold of the nates and back of tlie tliigh), the nerves which are the highest of those con- stituting the pudendal plexus (the second and third sacral nerves) are also implicated in inner- vating that border of the limb. The fourth sacral nerve is only concerned to a very slight extent in the innervation of the limb by means of the perineal branch, which reaches the beginning of its postaxial border ; the last two spinal nerves are wholly unrepresented in the limlj i)roper and end entirely in the trunk below tlie limb. Devei.ofment of the Spinal Nekves. I. Origin of the Spinal Nerve Roots.—The process of development of tiie spinal nerves commences by means of the outgrowth of the dorsal and ventral roots from the medullary tube. The two roots take origin iu quite different ways. Km. 449.—SCHK.MK of Uic innervation of the liiuder portion of the trunk and of the perineum, and the in- terruption of the segmental arrange- ment of the nerves associated with the formation of the hinh. T.IO, 11, 12, The areas of di.stribution of the lower thoracic nerves ; L.l, 2, 3, The posterior primary divisions of the tirst three lumbar nerves ; L.l, The ilio-inguinal nerve ; S.l, 2, 3, 4, 5, t). The posterior primary divi- sions of the sacral and coccygeal nerves (6) ; S.3, 2, 8.3, 2, Branches of pudic nerve to penis and scrotum ; S.3, 4, Inferior luBmorrhoidal nerve ; 4, Perineal liranili of the fourth sacral nerve ; 4, 5, 6, Anterior sacro- coccygeal nerve ; D.A.L, Dorsal axial line ; V.A.L, Ventral a.xial line.