1160 SUEFACE AND SUKGICAL ANATOMY. The lymphatics of the anterior part of the scalp join the facial lymphatics ; those of the temporal and parietal regions open into the pre-auricular and parotid lymphatic glands, situated in front of and below the ear, and into the post-auricular or mastoid glands, situated upon the insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The lymphatics of the occipital region open into the occipital glands, which lie close to the occi})ital artery where it l)ecomes superficial in the scalp. Bony Landmarks of the Cranium.—At the root of the nose is the fronto- nasal suture (nasion): a little above it is the glabella, a slight prominence which connects the superciliary ridges. About 1 in. Ijelow the posterior pole of the cranium, and 2 in. above the spine of the axis, is the external occipital pro- tuberance (inion). In the child the protuberance is not developed; its position may be defined by taking a point at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of a line extending from the posterior pole of the skull to the spine of the axis. About a third of the distance from the nasion to the inion is the bregma or junction of the' coronal and sagittal sutures; with the head in the natural erect posture the bregma corresponds to the middle of a line carried across the vertex between the pre-auricular points of the zygomatic arches. At birth the position of the bregma is occupied by the anterior fontanelle, a rhomboidal membranous area which generally becomes ossified at about the eighteenth month. The size and date of closure of the fontanelle, as well as its tension and pulsation, are all points to be carefully noted in the clinical examina- tion of children. The lambda, or junction of the sagittal and lambdoidal sutures, situated 2^ in. above the inion, can generally be felt through the scalp; a line drawn from it to the posterior border of the root of the mastoid process corresponds to the lambdoidal suture. In the adult the p'^rieto-occiintal fissure of the brajn lies opposite, or a few millimetres in front, of the lambda; in the child, however, the fissure may be as much as 1 in. in front of it. Crossing the supra-orbital margin close to its inner angle, a finger's-breadth from the middle line, are the supra-trochlear nerve and the frontal branch of the ophthalmic artery; the- latter nourishes the flap in the operation of rhinoplasty. At the junction of the inner and middle thirds of the supra-orbital margin, 1 in. from the middle line, is the supra-orbital notch or foramen, the gidde to the supra- orbital vessels and nerves. A little above the level of the outer canthus of the eye- lid is the fronto-malar suture, immediately above which is the external angular pro- cess of the frontal l)one. At the posterior end of the suture the temporal branch of the orbital nerve pierces the temporal fascia to reach the scalp. Half-an-inch aljove the suture is the lower margin of the cerebral hemisphere ; while half-an-inch below the suture is a small tubercle on the posterior border of the malar bone; a line drawn from this tubercle to the lambda gives the line of the parallel fissure and of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. The zygomatic arch, an important landmark, is horizontal when the head is in the natural position, and is on the same level as the lower margin of the orbit and the inion ; its upper border is at, or not infrequently a little above, the level of the lower lateral margin of the hemisphere. The upper border of the zygoma may be traced backwards immediately above the tragus and the external auditory meatus to become continuous with the ridge formed by the supra-mastoid portion of the temporal crest. The part of the postei'ior root of the zygoma which lies immedi- ately in front of the upper end of the tragus constitutes a valuable landmark which may with advantage be termed the pre-auricular point of the zygoma, while l)y the term post-auricular point is understood that point upon the supra-mastoid crest which lies immediately Ijehind, and a finger's-l)readth below, the upper attach- ment of the auricle. The temporal vessels and the auriculo-temporal nerve cross the zygoma at the pre-auricular point, and it is here that the pulsations of the tem- poral artery may be felt during the administration of an antesthetic, or the vessel compressed for the purpose of checking bleeding from the teriiporal region of the scalp. The termination of the auriculo-temporal nerve in the neighbourhood of the parietal eminence is often the seat of a neuralgic pain in irritative con- ditions about the external auditory meatus, the latter being supplied by this nerve.