85 VERTEBKAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE. «-< VERTEBRAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE. When all the vertebrae are articulated together, the resulting column displays certain characteristic features. The division of the column into a true or movable part, comprising the members of the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar series, and a false or fixed portion, in- cluding the sacrum and coccyx, can now be readily recognised. The vertebrae are so disposed that the centra or bodies form an interrupted column of solid parts in front, which constitutes the axis of support for the head and trunk; whilst the neural arches behind form a canal for the lodgment and protection of the spinal cord and its membranes. In the movable part of the column both the anterior sup- porting axis and the neural canal are liable to changes in their direction owing to the movements of the head and trunk. Like the bodies and neural arches the spinous and transverse processes are also superposed, and fall in line, forming three series of interrupted ridges—one (the spinous) placed centrally, the others (the transverse) placed laterally. In this way two vertebral grooves are formed which lie between the central and lateral ridges. The floor of each groove is formed by the laminae and articular processes, and in these grooves are lodged the muscles which serve to support and control the movements of the column. Further, the column so constituted is seen to display certain curves in an antero-posterior direction. These curves are, of course, subject to very great variation according to the position of the trunk and head, and can only be satisfactorily studied in a fresh specimen; but if care be exercised in the articulation of the vertebrae, the following character- istic features may be observed, assuming, of course, that the column is erect and the head so placed that the axis of vision is directed towards the horizon. There is a forward curve in the cervical region, which gradually merges with the backward thoracic curve; this becomes continuous below with an anterior convexity in the lumbar region, which ends more or less abruptly at the union of the fifth lumbar with the first sacral vertebra, where the sacrum slopes suddenly backwards, causing the column to form a marked projection—the sacro- vertebral angle. Below this, the anterior concavity of the front of the sacrum is directed downwards as well as forwards. Of these four curves, two—the thoracic and sacral—are primary, they alone exist during foetal life; whilst the cervical and lumbar forward curves only make their appearance after birth^—the former being associated with the extension and elevation of the head, whilst the latter is de- veloped in connexion with the use of the hind limb in the hyper - extended position, which in man is correlated with the assumption of the erect posture; this curve, therefore, only appears after the child has begim to walk. For these reasons the cervical and lumbar curves are described as secondary and compensatory. Fig. 65.—Vertebral Coldmn FROM THE Left Side.