lire SUEFACE AND SUliGICAL ANATOMY. ^Vh the perinaneiit teeth ])ush tlieir way towards tlie surface, absorption of the roots (if the first set takes place, which either fall out of their own accord or are easily removed. Loss of the Y)ernianent teeth is followed by absorption of the alveolar margin of the jaw. The tootli sockets are lined Ijy a thin periosteum, which is anatomically continuous with the pulp tissue of the teeth on the one hand and the dense fibrous tissue of the deep layer of the gum on the other. The upper incisors and canines and the lower bicuspids lia\ e cylindrical roots, hence in extracting these; teeth they should be first loosened l)y a slight rotatory movement; the ro(»ts of the lower incisors and canines and of the upper bicuspids are fiattened, so that they must be loosened by a lateral movement. The roots of the wisdom teeth are com:ergent, generally welded together and curved liackwards, especially in the lower- jaw. The first and second upper molars have three roots which are often divergent (Figs. 050 and 651). Tongue.—For practical purposes, as well as on (Uvelopmental and structural grcHinds, it is convenient to divide the tongue into an anterior two-thirds— the oro-glossus, and a posterior third—the pharyngo-glossus (Wingrave), Fig. 640. At the junction (»f the two portions, immediately Itehind the median circumvallate ])apilla, is the foramen caecum, which represents the remains of the upper or ])liaryngeal extremity of the thyro-glossal duct. Congenital cysts and/z's^mZo; which develop from unobliterated portions of this duct are always mesial; those arising from the u])per or lingual portion of the duct are situated lietween the genio-hyo- glossi, whereas those developed from the lower or tliyroid portion are situated Ijelow the hyoid bone. Tlie mucous membrane covering the ])liaryngo-glossus is much more sensitive than that covering the oro-glossus, lience in using a tongue depressor the instru- ment should, exceY)t under special circumstances, rest only upon the latter region, otherwise a refiex arching of the tongue will be set up, which prevents the fiperator from obtaining a satisfactory view of the throat. iScattered over the pharyngo- glossus are clusters of lymphoid follicles (lingual tonsils), which appear on the surface as a number of nodular umbilicated elevations provided with little crypts into which inucous glands open (Fig. 64i). The lingual tonsils are liable to chronic inflammation and hypertrophy, conditions which are often accompanied by a varicose condition of tlie veins whicli lie immediately beneath the mucous mem- brane containing the palato-glossus muscle. To obtain a satisfactctry view of the lingual tonsils in the living subject the laryngosco]»ic mirror must l)e employed. The muscular bundles of the tongue are separated by a quantity of loose con- nective tissue, ricli in ))lood-vessels and lymphatics (Fig. 644): hence acute in- llammatory (edema of the substance of the tongue may be attended with a degree of swelling sufficient to obstruct the respiratory passage. The main blood-vessels of the tongue run from liehind forwards, nearer its under than its upper surface; incisions into the substance of the tongue to reduce swelling and tensifm should, therefore, be made longitudinally upon the dorsum. Bleeding from the lingual artery, divided in the substance of the tongue, is tem])orarih' arrested by passing the finger liehind the base of the tongue and hook- ing it well forward, so as to compress the \'essel against the inner surface of the lower jaw. On account of the very slender anastomosis lietween the vessels of the two halves of the tongue scarcely any bleeding occurs when the organ is split mesially. Between the tongue and tlie inner surface of the gums is the alveole-glossal sulcus, crossed in the middle line by the frenum linguae, which passes upwards to the under surface of the tongue TFig. ()4."i). Immediately on either side of the lower part of the frenum is the orifice of Wharton's duct. A little external to the frenum the ranine veins are seen lying immediately under the thin mucous mem- brane ; to the outer side of the veins are the ranine arteries and the lingual ner^'es, Ixjth of which lie deeper than the veins, and are therefore not visible. The mucous memlirane at the anterior part of the floor of the alveolo-glossal sulcus is thrown into a slight elevation, which overlies, and is caused by, the sublingual salivary gland. Tlie duct of the submaxillary gland (Wharton's duct) and tlie lingual nerve lie l)oneath and to the inner side of the sulilingual glaiul,