THE METACARPUS. 205 has only one lateral articular facet on its base, namely, that on its radial side I'or tlie fourtli metacarpal. The caxpal articular surface is saddle-shaped, and there is Fig. 152.—Fourth Metacarpal Bone. a tubercle on the ulnar side of the base for the insertion of the extensor carpi ulnaris muscle. As has been ah'eady pointed out, the oi^enings of the arterial canals are usually seen on the palmar surfaces of the metacarpals, those of the four inner bones being directed upwards towards the base or carpal end, differing in this resjject from that of the first metacarpal, which is directed downwards towards the head or phalangeal extremity. The opening of the latter canal usually lies to tlie ulnar sidi?, of the palmar asjject of the shaft. Architecture.—Similar in arrangement to that of long bones generally, though it may be noted that the compact walls of the shaft are thicker in proportion to the length of the bone than in the other long bones of the upper extremity. .Variations.—As previously stated {ante, p. 202), the styloid apophj^sis of the third meta- carpal bone appears as a separate ossicle'4n about 1-8 per cent, of cases examined (" Fourth Annual Report of the Committee of Collect. Invest. Anat. Soc. Gt. Brit, and Ireland," Journ. Anaf. and PImjsiol. vol. xxviii. p. 64). In place of being united to the third metacarpal, the styloid apophysis may be fused with either the os magnum or the trapezoid, under wliich conditions the base of the third metacarpal bone is without this characteristic process. Ossification.—The metacarpal bones are developed from primary and secondary centres ; but there is a remarkable difference between the mode of growth of the first and the remaining four inner metacarpals, for whilst the shaft and head of tlie first metacarpal are developed from the primary ossific centre, and its base from a secondary epiphysis, in the case of the second, tliird, fourth, and fifth metacarpals, the shafts and bases are de- veloped from the primary centres, the heads in these instances being- derived from the secondary epiphyses. In this respect, therefore, as will be seen hereafter, the metacarpal bone of the thumb resembles the phalanges in the manner of its growth, a circumstance which has given rise to considerable discussion as to whether the thumb is to be regarded as possessing three phalanges and no metacarpal, or one metacarpal and two phalanges. The primary centres for the shafts and bases of the second, third, fourth, and fifth meta- carpals appear in that order dui'ing the ninth or tenth week of intrauterine life, some little time after the terminal phalanges have begun to ossify, that for the shaft and head of the metacarpal bone of the thumb a little later. At birth the shafts of the bones ;ire well formed. The secondary centres from which the heads of the second, tiiird, foxuth, and fifth metacarpals and the base of the first are developed, appear about the third year, and usually completely fuse with the shafts about the age of twenty. There may be an