280 THE ARTICULATIONS OR JOINTS. The synovial membrane (Fig. 217) is usually single and lines the capsule, but, as already explained, it has prolongations into the intermetacarpal and inter- carpal series of joints. In connexion with the latter, the frequent absence of the interosseous ligament between the trapezium and trapezoid permits the free communication of this joint-cavity with that of the transverse carpal joint. METACARPO-PHALANGEAL JOINTS. articulation in the those of an inter- In the case of the pollex this joint is constructed on the plan of a ginglymus diarthrosis; the four corresponding joints of the fingers are also diarthroses of a slightly modified l)all-and-socket variety. With the exception of the metacarpal l)one of the pollex, each metacarpal bone has a somewhat spherical head articulating with a shallow oval cup upon the base of the first phalanx. The thumb presents features similar to phalangeal joint. Each joint possesses an articular capsule (Fig. 218) which presents very different degrees of strength in differ- ent aspects of the articulation. Thus, on the dorsal aspect, it cannot be demonstrated as an independent structure, but the necessity for dorsal ligaments is to a large extent obviated by the presence of the strong flattened expansions of the extensor tendons. The internal and external lateral ligaments (ligamenta collateralia, Fig. 218) are strong cord-like bands which pass from the tubercles and adjacent depressions on the sides of the heads of the metacarpal bones to the contiguous non-articular areas on the bases of the proximal phalanges. They are intimately connected on their anterior aspects with the palmar ligaments. The palmar ligaments consist of thick plates of fibro- cartilage loosely connected to the metacarpal bones, but firmly adherent to the phalanges. They are placed between the lateral ligaments, to both of which they are in each case connected. Each plate is grooved on the palmar surface for the long flexor tendons, whilst on its reverse or joint surface it supports and glides upon the head of the metacarpal bone during flexion and extension of the joint. In the case of the thumb this plate of fibro-cartilage usually develops two sesamoid bones, and in the case of the index finger one such sesamoid nodule is frequently found at the radial side of the plate. An important accessory ligament is found in con- nexion with the four inner metacarpo - phalangeal articulations, viz.:—• The Transverse Metacarpal Ligament.—This structure binds together the distal extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones. The name is applied to three sets of transverse fibres of great strength which are situated in front of the three inner interosseous spaces. These fibres are continuous with the palmar metacarpo- phalangeal ligaments at tlieir lateral margins. A synovial membrane Hues the investing capsule of each joint. Capsule Lateral ligament Fig. 218.—Metacarpo-phalan- oeal and interi'halangeal Joints. INTERPHALANGEAL JOINTS. Of these joints there are two for each finger and one for the thumb. They all correspond, in being ginglymus diarthroses in which the trochlear character of their articular surfaces is associated with one axis of movement directed transversely. In their general arrangement they correspond with each other, and to a large extent with the metacarpo-phalangeal series already described. Each is provided