442 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. away from each other in an outward direction, and thus the ventral angle between them becomes greatly opened up. The growth which leads to the formation of the bulb appears, therefore, to take place chiefly on the ventral aspect of the vesicle. The dorsal wall remains thin and epithelial, and undergoes little or no development into nervous elements. The cavity of the original hind-brain is retained in the adult l»rain as the fourth ventricle; and from what has been said regarding the development of tlie different portions of the wall of the primitive hind-brain, it will be seen that in its lower or medullary part its dorsal wall or roof, to a large extent, remains epithelial. The parts of the adult brain which are derived from the rhombencephalon or hind-lnain are those which lie below the tentorium cerebelli in the posterior cranial fossa of the skull. Mesencephalon or Mid-brain.—The mid-brain takes a much more prominent part in the formation of the early primitive brain than it does in the construction of the adult brain. It forms a very small part of the adult brain, and constitutes a stalk of connexion between the parts which are developed from the walls of the rhombencephalon and those which are developed from the walls of the prosence- phalon or fore-brain. The entire wall of the mid-brain is transformed into nervous tissue. Thus, by the special development of the dorsal section of the wall, the corpora quadrigemina are formed. The lateral and ventral sections of the wall undergo a still more marked degree of growth-thickening, and the result is the formation of the two crura cerebri. The cavity of the mid-brain is retained as the narrow passage termed the aqueduct of Sylvius, which connects the third ventricle of the brain with the fourth ventricle. Prosencephalon or Fore-brain.—In its early condition one of the leading peculiarities of the fore-brain is its great width. It extends outwards on either side for a considerable dis- tance beyond the lateral walls of the mid - brain. These lateral expansions of the fore-brain are the optic vesicles, and at this stage they are in no way con- stricted off from the cen- tral part of the cavity. Soon, however, the central portion of the fore-brain begins to expand upwards and forwards, whilst the terminal portions of the optic ■ vesicles likewise undergo enlargement; and the result is, that the originally single chamber shows subdivision into three parts, viz. a central portion or fore-brain proper, and two expanded optic vesicles, which are joined to the lower parts of the lateral aspects of the fore-brain proper by two short constricted tubular passages termed the optic stalks. The optic vesicle and the optic stalk become ultimately transformed into the retina of the eye-ball and the optic nerve. The series of changes which lead to this result are detailed in the section dealing with the anatomy of the organ of vision. The fore-brain undergoes a series of remarkable developmental changes, the most striking of which is the formation of the cerebral hemispheres. The terminal or fore-portion of the fore-brain, in the first instance, expands in a forward and downward direction, and from the upper and lateral aspects of the new portion of the vesicle thus formed the cerebral hemispheres bulge outwards in the form of two hollow pouches. The hinder original part of the fore-brain is termed the thalmamencephalon or diencephalon, whilst the anterior part with the cerebral liemispheres, whicli protrude out from it, receives the name of telencephalon. The side walls of the diencephalon become thickened into the two lai'ge masses of gray matter termed the optic thalami; the Hoor or ventral wall develops into OPTIC VESICLE OPTIC VES, OPTIC STALK Fig. .328.—Two Cross Sections through the Fore-Br.\in. Through the fore-brain of the early human embryo. B. Through the fore-brain and optic vesicles of a Lepidosteus embryo of eight days (after Balfour and Parker, modified).