NASAL rOSS^. 679 middle turbinated bone a rounded elevation, the bulla ethmoidalis, is seen. This varies in size and is directed downwards and forwards, whilst opening either on it or above it are the oritices of the middle ethmoidal cells. Curving upwards and forwards, below and in front of the bulla ethmoidalis, is a deep, narrow groove, the hiatus semilunaris, into which the anterior ethmoidal cells and the antrum of Highmore open. The opening of the latter is placed near the roof of the antrum, and may be duplicated. The middle meatus extends up- wards and forwards, and, becoming narrowed, is continued into the infundibulum or channel leading into the frontal air-sinus. The inferior meatus (meatus nasi inferior) lies below the inferior turbinated bone, under cover of the anterior part of which is found the slit-like orifice of the nasal duct (see p. 698). Mucous Membrane (membrana mucosa nasi).—The Schneiderian or nasal mucous membrane is thick, highly vascular, and firmly bound to the subjacent?;periosteum and perichondrium. It is continuous, through the choante, with the mucous lining of the naso-pharynx; through the Organs of Jacobsoii FiG."489.—Section through Nose of Kitten, showing position of Jacobson's organ. Frontal air-siniis. Bristle passed from it into infundibulum Opening of middle ethmoidal cells Openings of posterior ethmoidal cells Eecessus .s|)l^no-ethij)oidalis Sphenoidal air-sinus Cut edge of inferior turbinated bone Bristle passed into opening of nasal duct Fig. 490.—View of the Outer Wall op the Nose—the Turbinated Bones having been removed. 1. Vestibule. 3 % Hiatus semilunaris. ^ 3. Opening of antrum of Highmore. 4. Bulla ethmoidalis. 5. Agger nasi. 6. Opening of anterior ethmoidal cells. 7. Cut edge of superior turbinated bone. S. Cut edge of middle turbinated bone. 9. Pharyngeal orifice of Eustachian tube. nasal duct, with the conjunctiva; and, through the apertures leading into the air- siniises, with the delicate lining of these cavities. Throughout the respiratory region it is covered by columnar, ciliated epi- thelium, interspersed amongst which are goblet or mucin cells, whilst between the bases of the columnar cells smaller pyramidal cells are interpolated. It contains a