THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CRANIAL NEEVES. 657 becomes solid, and forms the basis of the optic tract, optic commissure, and optic nerve. The optic cup, bilaminar in form, and clasping the lens by its margin, is imbedded in mesoblastic tissue, which gives rise to the envelopes of the eyeball, etc. The outer layer of the optic cup produces the layer of hexagonal pigment cells of the retina. The cells of the inner layer pi'oduce the tissue of the retina proper. They form neuroblasts with peri- pheral and central processes. The peripheral processes are converted into retinal nerve tissues; the central processes extend backwards along the optic stalk, and give rise to the fibrous structure of the optic nerve, optic commissure, and optic tract. Spongioblasts in the inner lamina of the optic cup produce the sustentacular tissue of the retina (Mtiller's fibres). The oculo-motor nerve arises, like the ventral root of a spinal nerve, from a group of neuroblasts in the mesial part of the basal lamina of the mid-brain. The peri- pheral fibres extend forwards, to end around the optic cup in the mesoblastic tissi;e, from which the eye muscles are derived. Numerous cells are carried along with the cell pro- cesses in their course, and these have been described as being concerned in the formation of the ciliary ganglion. The trochlear nerve also arises from a group of neuroblasts occupying the mesial part of the basal lamina of the mid-brain, close to its junction with the hind-brain. The peripheral processes do not emerge directly from the brain, but extend dorsally from their origin along the side of the brain to its dorsal aspect, where they appear, after decus- sating with the fibres of the opposite nerve, just behind the quadrigeminal lamina. The trigeminal nerve is developed by means of a large dorsal and a small ventral root. Their origin is in the main similar to the origin of the roots of a spinal nerve. The large dorsal (afferent) root is formed by means of a cellular bud from the alar lamina of the hind-brain. This bud separates from the brain, and forms the Gasserian ganglion. Its cells becoming bipolar, like the cells of a spinal ganglion, are secondarily connected with the brain by means of their central processes; while the peripheral pro- cesses, separating into thi-ee groups, proceed along the fronto-nasal and maxillary pro- cesses, and along the mandibular arch, to foi'm the three main divisions of the nerve. Numerous cells accompany each main division in its course from the ganglion, and form eventually the subordinate ganglia—the ciliary on the ophthalmic nerve, the spheno-pala- tine on the superior maxillary nerve, and the otic ganglion on the inferior maxillary nerve. The small ventral (efferent) root of the trigeminal nerve, like the motor ventral root of a spinal nerve, is later in its appearance than the sensory root. It arises as the peri- pheral fibres of a group of neuroblasts occupying the lateral part of the basal lamina of the hind-brain, which proceed directly to the surface to join the inferior maxillary division of the nerve. The resemblance between the trigeminal nerve and a typical spinal nerve, though striking, is incomplete. The efi'erent root does not quite correspond in place of origin with the motor root of a spinal nerve, being lateral and not ventral. The afferent root, while ganglionic and dorsal, differs from the typical segmental spinal nerve in separating into trunks for the supply of more than one segment. The abducent nerve resembles in its mode of development the oculo-motor and trochlear nerves, with which in its origin it is in series. It is formed by the peripheral processes of a group of neuroblasts in the mesial part of the basal lamina in the upper part of the hind-brain. These processes pierce the part of the brain in which, at a later stage, the fibres of the pyramid are developed. They then proceed to the mesoblastic tissue round the optic cup, which is destined to form the eye muscles. The facial nerve has developmentally a double origin. (1) In connexion with the formation of the auditory nerve a group of cells becomes separated from the alar lamina of the hind-brain opposite the auditory vesicle. This group becomes separated into three parts, of which the middle portion is the rudiment of the geniculate ganglion (or efferent root). (2) From a group of neuroblasts in the lateral part of the basal lamina of the hind-brain the efferent root of the nerve arises in series with efferent fibres of the vago-glossopharyngeal fibres ; after a tortuous course within the brain, its fibres emerge beneath the above-mentioned cellular mass, opposite the auditory vesicle. They are joined by the ganglionic root, and winding round the auditory vesicle, become imbedded in the auditory capsule (aqueduct of Fallopius). The chorda tympani nerve appears early as a branch of the facial nerve. It is probable that the pars intermedia, the geniculate ganglion, and the chorda tympani nerve represent the dorsal afferent element in the constitution of this nerve. The auditory nerve arises as a cellular bud from the alar lamina of the hind-brain, dorsal to the efferent portion of the facial nerve and opposite to the auditory vesicle. 42