GENERAL EMBRYOLOGY. 24 Proamniotic area the thickened portions are situated in the regions of the intervertebral discs, and the intermediate constricted portions in the regions of the vertebral bodies. The vertebral portions gradually disappear, and the intervertebral parts are converted into a kind of nnicoid tissue, the pulp of the intervertebral discs. Formation of the Coelom.—Before the extension of the mesoderm over the blastoderm is completed, that is, before it has reached the ventral pole of the ovi;m, it begins to separate into two layers. The separation is brought al)Out by cleft-like spaces which appear within its substance near the margin of the embryonic area, and, rapidly coalescing, form the ccelom or body cavity. Increasing in size, the coelom extends towards both poles of the blastodermic vesicle, but in the embryonic area it is arrested before it quite reaches the notochord and the sides of the primitive streak. It extends across the pericardial area, however, and forms the rudiment of the pericardial cavity, which appears as a transverse tubular passage continuous on each side with the general body cavity. Thus the mesoderm is separated into two layers, except along the sides of the notochord and primitive streak. The outer or parietal of these layers becomes more or less closely attached to the ectoderm, and with it forms the somatopleure, whilst the inner or visceral layer is similarly associated with the entoderm to form the splanchnopleure. There is reason to believe that in man and other higher manunals the ectoderm and entoderm are separated by a large space before the formation of the mesoderm commences, and that the meso- derm is cleft as it extends, the somatopleuric part grow- ing round the inner surface of the ectoderm and the splanchnopleuric layer extend- ing over the outer surface of the entoderm; therefore it may be said that the two layers of the mesodern extend from the primitive streak and grow round a space which intervenes in the first instance between the ectoderm and the ento- derm, and which, when the extension of the mesoderm is completed, becomes the coelom. This mode of extension of the mesoderm is merely a modification of the more general plan of its separation into layers at a later period. When the coelom is fully formed the blastoderm con- tains two cavities, one, the coelom or body cavity, situated between the two layers of the mesoderm, and the other the cavity of the blastodermic vesicle, usually called the vitelline cavity, which lies inside the entoderm. Mesodermic or Protovertebral Somites.—During the formation of the ccelom the undivided mesoderm at each side of the notochord thickens, principally by a dorsal upgrowth which is coincident with the uprising of the ectodermal medullary folds which l)ound the neural groove. There are thus formed two thickened bars of mesodermal tissue, one on eacli side of the neural tube, and they together con- stitute the paraxial mesoderm (Fig. 13); the more laterally situated portions of the mesoderm are known as the lateral plates. The paraxial mesoderm is soon di\ ided, except in the head region, by a number of transverse clefts into a series of cubical masses termed the protovertebral somites. These are at first partially, and afterwards more completely separated from the lateral plates by longitudinal grooves. After the longitudinal grooves Ehoiiiboidal sinus Fig. 18.—Sukk.vce View of ax Early Embuto (Diagrammatic). Showing the neural groove, dilated in the liead region but still un- closed, and the first protovertebral somites. The margins of the ccelomic space are indicated by dotted lines.