47 THE FCETAL MEMBKANES AND APPENDAGES. the disappearance of the buceo-pharyngeal and cloacal membranes it communicates, both anteriorly and posteriorly, with the alimentary canal of the embryo. The development of the amnion in higher mammals is closely associated with the attachment of the ovum to the uterine wall and with the subsequent formation of the placenta. Before the ccelom is formed, the ectoderm in the chorionic area becomes attached to the uterine tissues by small villous outgrowths which invade the uterine mucous membrane. This attach- ment is most complete in ^ the placental region, that is, around the margins of the amniotic area. As ul the embryo is folded off' from the blastoderm and the coelom develops, both the embryo and the am- niotic area remain quite free from the uterine tissues, indeed, it may be said that, at this period, the embryo is suspended from the margins of the placental area by the amniotic membrane. As development pro- ceeds the amniotic area increases in extent by interstitial growth, and thereupoir the embryo, the membrane which suspends it being relaxed, sinks ul more and more into the interior of the ovum, or, to be more precise, into the coelomic space, which, in the meantime, has con- siderably increased. At the same time the growth of the placental area causes all parts of its inner margin to converge, and Showiug the formation and closure of the amnion folds, the completion of as the inner margins of " " " the placental area are con- . , . -J 1 J1 , A. Amnion. tmuOUS with the outer Amnion fold. margins of the amniotic c. Coelom. membrane, the amnion is 9}^- Chorion. IT, .1 EC. Ectoderm. gradually carried over the dorsal surface of the em- bryo till its margins meet and fuse. After the fusion of its margins the amnion separates entirely from the chorionic area, henceforth known as the chorion, and forms a closed sac which completely surrounds the embryo. On reference to Figs. 19 and 25 it will be seen that as the wall of the blasto- dermic vesicle is carried inwards over the dorsal surface of the embryo it is folded; the outer part of the fold consists of the chorionic portion, and the inner part of the amniotic portion of the blastoderm. The fold is called the amnion fold ; it is quite continuous round the whole margin of the embryo, but some parts of it are more advanced than others, or in other words the convergence of the inner margin of the placental area of the blastoderm over the dorsal surface of the embryo does not take place at the same rate or to the same extent in all parts. For convenience Fig. 36. -Transverse Sections op thk Uterus and Developing OvDM OF A Ferret. the amnion, and the coincident ingrowth of the inner margins of the placental area of the blastoderm. EN. Entoderm. M. Muscular wall of uterus. NG. Neural groove. PV. Placental villus. SC. Stratum compactuni. SS. Stratum spongiosum. SoM. Somatic mesoderm. SpM. Splanchnic mesoderm. UL. Unchanged layer of uterine mucosa.