1007 STKUCTUKE OF THE STOMACH. anterior layer of the small sac. From the lesser curvature the lesser omentum extends to the liver, whilst from the great curvature the great omentum passes down to the transverse colon. Higher up still, on the left, the continuation of the great omentum, namely, the gastro-splenic omentum, passes off (from the inferior surface, a little Ijelow the great curvature) to the spleen. Finally, a small peri- toneal fold, known as the gasfro-plwenic ligament, is found running from the st(jniach u]) to the diaphragm along the left side of the cesophagus. A HiiuiU, iwegulai-lj' triangular, area (Fig. 674), about 2 iuclies wide and l\ inches i'roiu aliovc downwards, during moderate distension of the stomach, on the inferior surface below and to tlu- left of the carrlia, is uncovered by peritoneum, juid over it the organ is in direct contact with the <liajiliragm, occasionally also with the top of the left kidney and .sujirarenal. From the left angle of this " uncovered area " the attachment of the great omentum (gastro-spleidc part.) starts ; and at tlie right angle the coronary artery passes on to the stomach. In the child at birth the stomach is scarcely as large as a small hen-egg, and its capacity is about one ounce (28"3 grammes). In shape it corresponds pretty closely to that of the adult, and the fundus is well developed, although the contrary is often stated. In the female (Fig. 678), as a result of tight lacing, the stomach is often displaced in position and distorted in shape, so that instead of running obliquely forwards, downwards, and to the right, it is placed nearly A'ertically along the left side of the vertebral column, in which direction it has a very considerable length. Its lower part bends rather suddenly, and runs upwards and to the right to join the pjdorus, which is often placed quite superficially below the liver. As a result of the displacement, the left extremity of the pancreas is pushed downwards from the horizontal until it almost assumes a vertical position. The narrowing and inversion of the lower margin of the thoracic framework at the same time constricts the stomach about its middle, and often leads to a l)ilocular condition. Hour-glass or Bilocular Stomach.—This is a condition of the organ, by no means rare, in Avliicli the stomach is more or less completely sei)arated into two divisions—a cardiac and a pyloric—the normal arrangement in certain rodents and other animals. As a rule the former division is the lai'ger, hwi occasionally tlie two are nearly equal, or the pyloric portion may exceed the cardiac in size. Sometimes the condition is temporary, and the result of a vigorous contraction of the circular muscular fibres at the seat of constriction. In other cases it is permanent, and may be due to pressure of the lower ribs, as from tight lacing, .to cicatricial contraction after gastric ulcer, or possibly to a congenital or acquired thickeniiig of the muscular fibres corresponding to the constriction. The condition is nnicli more frequent in the female than the male, and is rarely found in the child. Gland mouths Mucous membranf* Muscular mucos: Structure of the Stomach. Submucosa < The stomach wall is composed of four coats— namely, from without inwards : (1) peritoneal, (2) muscular, (3) submucous, and (4) mucous (Fig. 679). Peritoneal or Serous Coat (tunica serosa).— This coat is formed of the peritoneum, the relations of which to the stomach have already been described. It is closely attached to the subjacent muscular coat, except near the curvatures, ^vhere the con- nexion is more lax ; and it confers on the stomach its smooth and glistening appearance. The muscular coat, ^vhich is composed of un- striped muscle, is thinnest in the fundus and body, much thicker in the pyloric jjortion, and very highly developed at the pylorus. It is made up of three incomplete layers — an external of longitudinal, a nnddle of circular, and an internal of oblique nuiscular fibres. The external layer (stratum longitudinale) con- sists of longitudinal fibres, continuous with those of the ojsophagus, on the one hand, and those of the duodenum on the other (Fig. 680, A). They are most easily demonstrated on the lesser curvatui-e, Avhere thev can be traced down from the right side of the oeso- Oblique iiiusoular fibres Circular muscular fibres Longitudiual muscular fibres Peritoneum - Fig. 679.—Section thhouuh Wall of Stomach, Caudiac Portion (sliglitly nioditieil from Stolir).