795 PAEIETAL BKANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. mammary arteries. Tlie external branch passes outwards towards the lower ribs and anastomoses with the musculo-phrenic and lower intercostal arteries. In addition to supplying the diaphragm each inferior phrenic artery frequently gives a superior capsular branch to the suprarenal l^ody of its own side, and occasion- ally small ]\epatic branches pass through the coronary ligament to the liver. Further, the left artery gives branches to the resophagus which anastomose with Hepatic veins Inferior phrenic artery Hiji'f Suprarenal body Inferior vena cava- Renal artery- Renal vein " Riglit ovarian vein Ovarian artery Ureter Psoas nmscle — Ascending colon Common iliac vein ' Common iliac artery Middle sacral artery neiini Civcnn External iliac artery External iliac vein Uraclms — (ilsopliagus L Grus of diapliragm Inferior phrenic artery —Suprarenal body —Cosliac axis —Suprarenal vein Su)iprior iiR'seuteric artery Renal artery Renal vein Lumbar arteries Ureter Left colic artery Ovarian artery Inferior mesenteric irtery esceniling colon Psoas muscle Common iliac artei j' Sigmoid artery —Common iliac vein _Superior h;emor- rhoidal artery Iliac colon Pelvic colon External iliac "artery - Extm iial iliac vein Uterus Fic. 566.—The Abdominal Aouta and its Bhanches. oesophageal brandies of the aorta and of the coronary artery, whilst from the artery of the right side minute branches pass to the inferior vena cava. 2. The lumbar arteries (aa. lumbales) correspond to the intercostal branches of the thoracic aorta. They are in series with them, their distribution is very similar, and, like the intercostals, they arise, either separately or by common trunks, from the back of the aorta. Tliere are usually four pairs oi' lumbar arteries, but occasionally a fifth pair arises from the middle sacral artery. From their origins the lumbar arteries pass backwards and outwards on the front and sides of the bodies of the upper four lumliar vertelirfe to the interval