398 THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. FASCIAE. The fasciie of the abdominal wall are—externally, the superficial and deep fasciae ; internally, the fascia trausversalis, continuous with the diaphragmatic, lumbar, psoas, iliac, and pelvic fasciae, and lined within by the extra-peritoneal tissue. The superficial fascia of the abdomen is liable to contain a large quantity of fat. It is separated in the groin into tivo layers: a superficial fatty layer continuous over Poupart's ligament with the fascia of the front of the thigh, and a deeper membranous layer attached to the inner half of Poupart's ligament, and more externally to the fascia lata of the thigh below Poupart's ligament. The two layers are separated by the lymphatic glands and the superficial vessels of the groin. Higher up in the abdominal wall the two layers blend together, and traced downwards over the spermatic cord, they unite to form the fascia and dartos muscle of the scrotum. The attachment of the fascia to the groin prevents the passage into the thigh of extravasated fluid in the abdominal wall. The deep fascia of the abdominal wall resembles similar fasci* in other situa- tions. It forms an investment for the obliquus externus muscle, and becomes thin and almost imper- ceptiblein relation to the aponeurosis of that muscle. The fascial lin- ing of the ab- dominal cavity (fascia transver- salis) consists of a continuous layer of membrane which receives different names in different parts of its extent. It covers the deep surface of the trausversalis mus- cle, and is con- tinuous internally (through the lumbar fascia) with the fasciae of the quadratus lumborum and the psoas. It is continuous above with the diaphragmatic fascia, and below (the iliac crest and Poupart's ligament intervening) with the fascia iliaca. Along with the last-named fascia it forms the femoral sheath. It is pierced by the spermatic cord or round ligament at the internal abdominal ring, and forms the infundibuliform fascia. It is lined internally by the peritoneum, from which it is separated by a thick layer of extra-peritoneal tissue. The extra-peritoneal layer of tissue is usually loaded with fat; it envelops the kidneys, ureters, supra-renal capsules, abdominal aorta and inferior vena cava and their branches, and forms sheaths for the vessels and ducts (ureter, vas deferens, etc.). It is continuous upwards into the thorax through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, and below is in continuity with a similar tissue in the pelvis. It not only completely invests the kidneys and suprarenal capsules, but it also becomes intei-polated between the layers of peritoneum upholding and enveloping the intestines. This tissue is absent in relation to the diaphragm. THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. The lateral muscles comprise the obliquus externus, obliquus internus, and trausversalis abdominis. Suiierticial layer of superficial fa.scia' Superficial circumflex iliac vessels—lii Inguinal lymphatic glands Deep layer of superficial fascia Femoral lympliatic glanils Orural brancli < genitn-crnral m-i \ Superficial layer < sui)i'rlicial fasciii Internal saphenous veil Deep layer of superficial fascia Superficial eiJigastric vessels iperficial layer uf perficial fascia iperior external vessels guinal nerve niatic cord Fig. 292.—The Groin. Strdctuues between the Layeks Superficial Fascia.