PEIMITIVE VASCULAK SYSTEM AND FCETAL CIECULATION. 57 When the period of intrauterine hfe is completed the muscular walls of the uterus contract and the lower orifice of the uterine cavity is dilated, the fused chorion and amnion, which close the upper part of the orifice, rupture and the amniotic fluid escapes, the foetus is then expelled, but it remains attached to the placenta by the umbilical cord. The cord is divided artificially, and after a short period the placenta and membranes are expelled. The membranes attached to the placenta consist of the fused amnion, chorion, decidua capsularis, and also the decidua vera internal to the altered spongy layer; therefore lioth the placenta and the membranes consist of maternal and foetal tissues. Before the placenta and membranes are expelled the uterine decidua is separated into two parts by a cleavage which takes place in the modified stratum spongiosum. ThS inner portion which includes the placenta and membranes is cast off. The outer portion remains in the uterus; it consists almost entirely of the deep unchanged layer of the decidua, and from it the uterine mucous membrane is reconstructed. THE PRIMITIVE VASCULAK SYSTEM AND THE FCETAL CIECULATIOK It has already been said that the ovum during its passage down the Fallopian tube lives either on its own yolk particles or upon substances absorbed from the fluids by which it is surrounded. For a time after it enters the uterus its nutrition must be provided for in a similar manner, but as soon as the chorionic villi are formed it is probable that the ectodermal cells, of which in the earliest stages they entirely consist, and which cover their surfaces in the later stages, actually eat up the decidual tissues which they invade and use them for food. This source of nutrition, however, is only sufficient for the short period during which the ovum remains relatively small and substances absorbed through the surface cells can be readily transmitted to all its parts. In addition to the solid decidual tissues devoured by the ectodermal cells it is evident that fluids from the mother are also absorbed, for the yolk-sac and coelom enlarge and are filled with fluid. The only sources from which these can have been derived are the uterine glands or the blood and lymph vessels of the decidua. In all probability the fluids absorbed into the ovum contain nutritive material, and so long as the embryo is constituted by the thin layers of the early blastoderm sufficient food material can easily be absorbed. When, however, the various parts of the embryo increase in thickness and become moulded into the form of organs they are no longer in such intimate relation with the surrounding nutritive fluids, whilst, further, as their development progresses they require a greater amount of food and oxygen than they can obtain from these fluids. There is, therefore, an imperative necessity for a further supply of nutritive material by which their reqiiirements may be satisfied, or development must cease and death ensue. To meet this necessity the vascular system is formed. It is essentially an irrigation system consisting of a propulsive organ, the heart, and of tubular vessels, the blood-vessels, all of which contain blood. The heart propels the blood through the blood-vessels to all parts of the embryo, but the blood which is at first formed from the mesoderm of the ovum must, at least so far as its fluid part is concerned, be supplemented largely from maternal sources. It is necessary, there- fore, that the foetal blood-vessels be brought into close relation with the maternal blood-vessels at an early period. It is for this purpose, amongst others, that the large blood-sinuses are formed in the maternal portion of the placenta, and that they are surrounded and invaded by the foetal villi, carrying in their interior branches of the foetal blood-vessels, and as previously shown, the foetal blood- vessels in the placenta are only separated from the maternal blood in the sinuses by their own thin mesodermal walls, and by one or two layers of ectodermal cells. When the placenta is fully formed fluids can readily pass from the maternal to the foetal vessels, and there can be no doubt that both food and oxygen pass from the maternal blood to the foetal blood through and by the agency of the intervening cells, whilst at the same time the waste products which are formed in the embryo pass outwards to the maternal blood.