THE CEEVICAL PLEXUS. 575 CERVICAL NERVES. The anterior primary divisions of the cervical nerves, together with parts of the first and second thoracic nerves, are distributed to the head, neck, and upper extremity. The first four cervical nerves, by means of the cervical plexus, innervate the neck; the last four cervical nerves, together with a large part of the first thoracic nerve, through the brachial plexus supply the upper limb. The second thoracic nerve may contribute a trunk to this plexus, and always assists in the innervation of the upper limb. THE CERVICAL PLEXUS. The anterior primary divisions of the first four cervical nerves are concerned in forming the cervical plexus. Each nerve emerges from the spinal canal behind the vertebral artery. Each, is joined on its emergence from the intervertebral foramen, at the side of the spine, by a gray ramus communicans from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. In the neck the nerves are concealed by the sternomastoid muscle; in front lies the rectus capitis anticus major, and behind are the scalenus medius, and (behind the first or suboccipital nerve) the rectus capitis lateralis. The cervical plexus is constituted by the combination of these nerves in an irregular series of loops under cover of the sterno-mastoid muscle. From these loops the branches of distribution arise, as (a) cutaneous branches to the head, neck, and shoulder; (b) muscular branches to the muscles of the neck; and (c) communicating branches to the vagus, spinal accessory, hypoglossal and sympathetic nerves. For convenience of description, the nerves derived from the plexus may be classified as follows :— I. Superficial (cutaneous) Branches— Ascending Branches (C. 2 and 3). Small occipital, Great auricular, Superficial cervical. B. Descending (supraclavicular) Branches (C. 3 aud 4)— Acromial, Clavicular, Sternal. II. Deep (muscular and communicating) Branches— A. External Branches. B. Internal Branches. 1. (C. 3, Muscular branches to Sternomastoid (C. 2), Trapezius (C. 3, 4), Levator anguli scapul 4), Scaleni (medius and posticus, (C. 3, 4). Communicating branches to Spinal accessory nerve (C. 2, 3, 4). 1. Muscular branches to Prevertebi-al muscles (C. 1, 2, 3, 4), Infrahyoid muscles (C. 1, 2, 3) (ansa hypoglossi), Diaphragm (C. 3, 4) (phrenic; nerve). 2. Communicating branches to Vagus nerve (C. 1, 2), Hypoglossal nerve (C. 1, 2), C. Hypoglossi (C. 2, 3), Sympathetic (C. 1, 2, 3, 4). The second, third, and fourth cervical nerves are the chief nerves engaged in forming the plexus. The first cervical nerve only enters into the formation of a small part—the internal portion of the deep part of the plexus. Superficial Cutaneous Branches.—These nerves, six in number, are entirely cutaneous. They radiate from the cervical plexus, and appear in the posterior triangle of the neck at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The small occipital nerve (n. occipitalis minor) is variable in size and is some- times double. Its origin is from the second and third cervical nerves (more rarely