1137 THE FEMALE EXTERNAL GENITAL ORGANS. The round ligament of the uterus ends iu the fatty tissue of the hibium majus. The superficial subcutaneous tissue resembles that of the scrotum, but contains no muscular fibres. The nerve supply corresponds with that of the scrotum, the anterior part of each labium being supplied by the bi^anches of the ilio-inguinal nerve, and the posterior part by branches from the internal pudic, and by the perineal branch of the small sciatic nerve. The blood-vessels of the labia majora are derived from the superficial pudic arteries and from the perineal liranches of the internal pudic vessels. Labia Minora. are a pair of much enclosed within the cleft between the labia majora. Diminishing in size, and becom- ing less marked in tlieir posterior parts, the labia minora end by gradually joining the inner surfaces of the labia majora. In the young subject, a slightly raised transverse fold is usually seen con- necting the pos- terior ends of the labia minora; to this fold tlie term frenulum (frenu- lum labiorum pudendi), or four- chette, is applied. Traced forwards, each labium minus divides into two portions, an outer and an inner. The outer portions of the two labia unite over the glans clitoridis, and form a fold or covering for it, called the prse- putium clitoridis. — The labia minora, or nymplue (labia minora pudendi), smaller and narrower longitudinal folds, usually completely .Glans clitoridis Frenulum clitoridis LaViinni niajus I<abium minus )rifioiuni urethra; xtt'rnum _Conmiissura posterior Fig. 778.—Female External Genital Organs. The hymen has been ruptured, but the I'ourchette is seen stretching across behind the fossa navicularis and in front of the posterior commissure. The ducts of Bartholin's glands open in the intervals between the vaginal orifice and the labia nunora. The inner portions. uniting at an acute angle, join the glans and form the frenulum clitoridis. The skin of the Ial)ia minora reseml)les the integument on the inner or deep surface of the labia majora, being smooth, moist and pink in colour. The inner surfaces of the labia minora are in contact with one another; their outer surfaces are applied against the inner aspects of the labia majora. The openings of the urethra and vagina are placed, in the middle line, in the interval between the labia minora, which must be separated to l)ring them into view. The vestibule (vestibulum vaginfe) is the name applied to the cleft that lies between the labia minora and behind the glans clitoridis. In its floor are the openings of the urethra, the vagina and the minute ducts of Bartholin's glands. ^72