281 LUMBO-SACRAL JOINTS. with a definite capsule (Fig. 218), of which the palmar and cord-like lateral portions are well marked, while on the dorsal aspect the extensor tendons act as the chief support. The palmar ligaments are fibrous plates of considerable thickness, and are attached to the two lateral ligaments and to the intervening rough surface on the distal phalanges, while their proximal margins are not attached to bone. Each ligament has its lateral margins prolonged proximally to the adjacent sharply- defined lateral ridges on the phalangeal shafts. The lateral ligaments (Fig. 218) are strong, rounded, short bands, continuous with the preceding, and attached to adjacent non-articular lateral aspects of the phalanges. Each joint possesses a synovial membrane which lines its capsule, but its arrangement presents no special peculiarity. Movements of the Carpal, Intermetacarpal, Metacarpo-phalangeal AND InTERPHALANGEAL JOINTS. The amount of movement which is possible at individual joints of the intercarpal, inter- nietacar]jal, and carpo-metacarjjal series is extremely limited, both on account of the interlocking nature of the articukir surfaces and the restraining character of the ligamentous l)ands. Taken as a wliole, however, the movements of the carpus and nietacarjjus enable the liand to perform many varied and important functions. Tliis is largely due to the greater mobility of those joints on the radial and ulnar Ijorders of the hand, as well as to the general elasticity of the arches formed by the carpus and metacarpus. Tliese conditions particularly favour the movements of opposition and i)rehension. In the opposite direction, i.e. wlien pressure is applied from the jjaimar aspect, tlie metacarpal and carpal arches tend to become flattened, but great elasticity is ini2:iarted by the tension of the various ligaments. The four inner metacarpo-jihalangeal joints are ball-and-socket joints, and movements of palmar-flexion and extension are freely performed about a transverse axis. In exceptional cases a certain amount of dorsi-fiexion is possible. About an antero-posterior axis movements occur which are usually referred to the middle line of the hand, and hence called abduction and adduction. The movements of the index finger are less hamjjered" than in the case of the others, l)ut each of them can perform a modified kind of circumduction. The metacarj^o-phalangeal iom^ of the thumlj and all the interj^lialangeal joints are uniaxial or hinge-joints acting aliout a transverse axis, which permits of palmar-flexion and extension being freely performed, ljut dorsi-flexion is, as a rule, entirely prevented by the palmar and lateral ligaments. ARTICULATIONS AND LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. Although we may consider the pelvis as a separate part of the skeleton, yet it is essential to remember that the bones which enter into its composition belong to the spinal column (sacrum, cocbyx) and the lower limb (innominate bone). Accord- ingly, the articulations, with their corresponding ligaments, may be arranged as follows:— (a) Those by which the segments of the coccyx are joined together (already described, v. p. 256); (&) That by which the sacrum articulates with the coccyx (already de- scribed, V. p. 256); (c) Those by which the sacrum articulates with the last lumbar vertebra (Lumbo-sacral joints); {d) Those by which the innominate bones are attached to the spinal column (Sacro-iliac joints); {e) That by which the innominate bones are attached to each other (Sym- physis pubis). LUMBO-SACRAL JOINTS. The articulation of sacrum with the fifth lumbar vertebra is constructed precisely on the principle of the articulations between two typical vertebrie, and the usual ligaments associated with such joints are repeated. There is, however, an additional accessory ligament, termed the lateral lumbo-sacral ligament (Fig. 219). This extends from the front of the inferior border of the transverse process of the