BKANCHES OF THE EXTEENAL CAEOTID AETEEY. 767 After entering the foramen it descends in the mandibular canal, and terminates at the mental foramen by dividing into mental and incisive branches. Branches.—Before it enters the mandibular foiamen it gives off two branches. (i.) The lingual, a small twig to the buccal mucous membrane which accompanies the lingual nerve, (ii.) The mylo-hyoid (ramus mylohoideus), a small branch which is given off immediately above the mandibular foramen. It pierces the spheno-mandibular ligament, and descends in the mylo-hyoid groove, in company with the mylo-hyoid nerve, to the floor of the mouth, where it anastomoses, on the superficial surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, with the submental branch of the facial artery. In the mandibular canal the following branches are given off:— (i.) Molar branches to the molar teeth, (ii.) Bicuspid branches to the bicuspid teeth, (iii.) The incisive terminal branch, which supplies the incisor teeth and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, (iv.) The mental terminal branch (a. mentalis), which passes through the mental foramen, emerges beneath the depressor labii inferioris, and anastomoses with its felloAv of the opposite side, with the inferior coronary, the inferior labial, and with the submental arteries. From the second part.—{a) The masseteric (a. masseterica), a small branch which passes directly outwards, through the sigmoid notch, to the deep surface of the masseter muscle. It anastomoses in the substance of the muscle with branches of the transverse facial and with the masseteric branches of the facial artery. (6) Deep Temporal.—Two in number, anterior (a. temporalis profunda anterior) and posterior (a. temporalis profunda posterior). They ascend between the temporal muscle and the squamous portion of the temporal bone, supplying the muscle and anastomosing with the temporal and lachrymal arteries, and, through the substance of the temporal bone, with the middle meningeal artery. (c) Small pterygoid branches (rami pterygoidei) supply the internal and external pterygoid muscles. {d) The buccal (a. buccinatoria), a long slender branch which jjasses obliquely forwards and downwards with the long buccal nerve. It supplies the buccinator muscle, the skin and mucous meinbrane of the cheek, and anastomoses with the buccal branch of the facial artery. Frorii the third part.—{a) A posterior superior dental branch (a. alveolaris superior posterior) descends in the zygomatic fossa, on the posterior surface of the superior maxilla, and ends in branches which supply the molar and bicuspid teeth and the mucous membrane of the antrum, they also give twigs to the gums and to the buccinator muscle. (5) An infraorbital branch (a. infraorbitalis) commences in the spheno-maxillary fossa. It enters the orbit thi-ough the spheno-maxillary fissure, and runs forwards in the infra- orbital groove and canal to the infraorbital foramen, througir which it passes to emerge on the face beneath the levator labii superioris. Whilst in the infraorl>ital groove it gives branches to the inferior i-ectus, the inferior oblique and the lachrymal gland. In the infra- orbital canal it gives small twigs to the incisor and canine teeth (aa. alveolares superiores anteriores) and to the antrum. In the face it sends branches upwards to the lower eyelid, to the lachrymal sac, and to the nasal process of the superior maxilla, which anastomose with branches of the ophthalmic and facial arteries; other branches run downwards to the xipper lip, where they anastomose with the superior coronary artery; lastly, some branches run outwards into the cheek to unite with the transverse facial and the buccal artei'ies. (c) The posterior or descending palatine (a. palatina descendens) runs downwards through the spheno-maxillarj^ fossa, passes through the posterior palatine canal and reaches the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth, where it runs forwards, internal to the alveolar process, to terminate in a small branch which ascends through the anterior palatine fossa and Stenson's canal, and anastomoses with the spheno-palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery. As it descends it gives off several small twigs which pass through the accessory palatine canals to supply the soft palate and to anastomose with the ascending palatine and tonsillar branches of the facial and -with the ascending pharyngeal artery. In its course forwards in the roof of the mouth it supplies the gums and the mucous membrane of the hard palate, and also the palate and superior maxillary bones. {d) The Vidian (a. canalis pterygoidei) is a long slender branch which runs back- wards through the Vidian canal with the Vidian nerve. It supplies branches to the upper part of the pharynx, to the levator and tensor palati muscles, and to the Eustachian tube. One of the latter branches passes along the wall of the Eustachian tube to the tympanic cavity, where it anastomoses with the other tympanic arteries. (e) The pterygo-palatine is a small artery whicli runs backwards, with the pharyngeal branch of Meckel's ganglion, to the roof of the pharynx. It supplies the upper and back