THE STOMACH. .1005 cupolu (if tlie (liapliragm; opposite tlie cesopliageal orifice it passes into the body of the stomach. Its surfaces are merely prolongations of the iipper and lower surfaces of the organ, and accordingly its relations are similar. Thus tlie upper surface lies against the left cupola of the diaphragm (aftd occasionally the left lobe of the liver, when this extends further than usual to the side); whilst the lower surface rests chiefly on the gastric surface of the sjDleen, and also on the left kidnej'. The highest part of the fundus reaches to the level of a jioint on the chest wall about lialf-an- inch (12 nnn.) internal to the apex jjoint of the heart. The narrow or pyloric end, when the stomach is empty, is contracted and cylindrical, and runs transversely to the right, lying as a rule beneath the left lobe of the liver. During distension it is carried to the right beneath the quadrate lobe, and its terminal part is there directed backwards in order to reach the duodenum. Even in this condition its last inch remains comparatively undistended. . The lesser curvature (curvatura ventriculi minor) is directed towards the liver, and corresponds to the line along which the lesser omentum is attached to the stomach, between the pyloric and oesophageal orifices (Fig. 674). It is connected to the liver by the lesser omentum, between the layers of which the gastric and pyloric vessels run along the curvature. This curvature, when the stomach is empty, presents a sharp bend at the junction of the cardiac and pyloric portions, but when fully distended it forms an open curve exce2>t near its pyloric end, where it becomes convex, corresponding to the S-shaped forni of this portion of the organ (see below). On viewing a distended stomach from the right side (Fig. 674, B), it will be observed that the line of the lesser curvature turns slightly on to the upjier aspect in order to reach the cardia, which is situated rather on the upper surface than on the border of the stomach. The great curvature (curvatura ventriculi major), which is usually over three times as long as the lesser curvature, corresponds to a line drawn from the cardia over the summit of the fundus (Fig. 674), and then along the line of attachment of the great omentum as far as the pylorus. In general, it is directed to the left and for- wards, but at its beginning, near the cardia, it of course looks in the opposite direction. The great curvature corresponds in the greater part of its length to the attachment of the great omentum; and in close relation to it, but between the layers of the omentum, run the right and left gastro-epijiloic vessels. Antrum Pylori.—This is a prominence of the great curvature in the distended stomach, situated a short distance from the pylorus. When the stomach is distended, the pyloric portion, near its right extremity, becomes curved somewhat like the letter »S' placed horizontally. The first curve of the S is convex downwards and forwards, and this becoming more prominent with distension, forms a projection of the great cur\'ature known as the antrum pylori. The terminal pai't of the S extends to the jjylorus ; it is about one inch (2'5/|Cm.) in length, and it appears never to become distended to any noticeable extent. This latter is the part described by Jonnesco as the pyloric canal. The terms cardiac and pyloric portions are often employed to indicate the wider and narrowei' portions of the stomach resjjectively. The cardiac portion includes about two-thirds of the length of the whole organ ; the pyloric portion the remaining third. Except in complete dis- tension, the junction of the two is usually indicated by a slight constriction, and occasionally there is a thickening of the muscular fibres (ajjparently those of the oblique layer), corresponding in jjart to the constriction. The oesophageal orifice or cardia is the aperture at which the gullet opens into the stomach. It is situated at the upper end of the lesser curvature, to the right of the fundus, and nearer the upper than the lower surface of the stomach (Fig. 674, B). The cElrdia is very deeply placed, and lies about four inches behind the sternal end of the seventh left costal cartilage, at a point one inch from its junction with the sternum. Posteriorly it corresponds to the level of the eleventh dorsal vertebra. Owing to the fixation of the CESophagus by its passage through the diajdiragm, and the close connexion between the stomach and the diaphragm, near the cardia where the peritoneum is absent, this is the most fixed part of the whole organ. The object of this immobility is evidently to maintain a clear passage for the food entering the stomach. The orifice is oval rather than round, with its long axis very oblique ; and although the presence of a valvular arrangement at the cardia has lieen advocated by several authorities, it is difficult to find satis- factory proof of its existence in hardened bodies. It seems more probaljle, on the whole, that no such arrangement naturally exists here. On the other hand, the muscular margins of the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm, and the circular fibres of the lower end of the oesophagus,