882 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. of the adult heart; the left end becomes the lower part of the oblique vein of Mai'shall, the rest of this vein representing the left duct of Cuvier. Thus, when the development of the heart is completed, all the large veins which reach the heart, with the exception of the pulmonary veins, open into the right auricle, and into that part of the chamber formed by the absorption of the right end of the sinus venosus. Indications of the primitive separation of the auricle from the sinus venosus are still recognisable in the adult, as the sulcus terminalis on the exterior, the corre- sponding crista terminalis in the interior, and the Eustachian and Thebesian valves; the Eustachian valve is a remnant of the upper part of the valvular fold which was situated at the right margin of the slit-like aperture of communication between the sinus venosus and the auricle, whilst the valve of Thebesius represents the lower part of the right venous valve. The valves which guard the auriculo-ventricular oriiices are dowugrowths from the lower end of the auricular canal. The valves of the pulmonary and aortic apertures are preceded by four endocardial thickenings at the lower end of the aortic bulb—anterior, posterior, and two lateral. As the septum of the bulb descends it fuses with the middle parts of the lateral thickenings; thus, when the septum of the bulb has descended below the lower orifice of the bulb, dividing it into aortic and jjulmonary apertures, three endocardial thickenings are found in each aperture, one anterior and two posterior in the pulmonary aperture, and the reverse in the aortic orifice. From these thickenings the semilunar valves of the aortic and pulmonary apertures are developed, and they retain their original positions until after the sixth month of foetal life ; ultimately, however, they are twisted round, so that in the adult the pulmonary valves are placed two in front and one behind, and the aortic one in front and two behind. The Aortic Arches—Formation of the Chief Arteries. The aortic arches at the head end of the embryo connect the aortic bulb and the ventral aortae in front of the bulb, with the corresponding parts of the primitive dorsal aoi-tse. The arches, ten in number, jire arranged in pairs. There are, therefore, five arches on each side, and they are distinguished from before backwards by their numerical designation. The first is formed during the development of the head fold by the simultaneous bending of the primitive aorta ; it lies at the side of the bucco-pharyngeal area, and subsequently in the substance of the mandibular arch. The remaining aortic arches are formed quite dift'erently, and grow dorsally through the substance of the remaining visceral arches, as these are formed in regular succession in the side wall of the pharyn- geal portion of the foregut. The second springs directly from the anterior ventral aorta, and passes through the hyoid arch to the dorsal aorta, but tlie third, fourth, and fifth spring by a common trunk from the apex of the aortic bulb. Subsequently, however, and as the neck grows forwards, the anterior ventral aorta is elongated, and the third and fourth arches arise separately from it. At this later period, tiierefore, four vessels, two on each side, spring from the aortic bulb, viz. the two fifth arches and the two anterior ventral aortse from which the anterior four pairs of. arches arise. When the septum of the aortic bulb is developed, the bulb is divided into two parts, one (the pulmonary artery) connecting the fifth arches with the right ventricle, and the other (the ascending aorta) connecting the ventral aortic stems, and through them the first, second, third, and fourth pairs of arches, with the left ventricle. Each cephalic aortic arch is connected with the arch immediately behind it by a dorsal root, and in the cases of the first three ai'ches by a ventral root also; but the veuti'al root of the fourth arch connects it with the aortic bulb. The dorsal and ventral roots of the arches are simply portions of the primitive ventral and dorsal aortaj, which are so named merely for descriptive purposes. From the dorsal roots a series of segmental branches are given off, which pass dorsally, between the rudiments of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, to supply the spinal cord and its membranes and tlie muscles and fasciae of the back. The five pairs of arches do not all persist in their entirety, but remains of each are found even in the adult. The first and second pairs disappear almost entirely; from the ventral ends of the first arches, however, the superficial temporal, the internal maxillary, and the lingual arteries are formed ; whilst from the ventral ends of the second arches the ascending pharyngeal, posterior auricular, and occipital arteries are derived. On eacli side the ventral roots of the first and second arches |)ersist as the stem of the corresponding external carotid artery. The internal carotid is formed by the third arch