315 MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDEk artery are placed. The deep surface of the muscle is separated hy a bursa from the capsule of the shoulder joint. It is in contact with the coracoid j^roccss, the coraco-acromial ligament, and the attachments! of the pectoralis minor and the Tkapeziu; Clavicle (cnt\ '■iupraseapular nerve Coraco-clavieular liganienti Pectoralis minor Coracoid process-^ Coraco-acroiiiial liKaiiieiiWJ!/,^ Circumflex artery Gircumfli Deltoid ■ IjOno head or BICEPS .Pectoralis major Coraco- *eS: brachialis ' Posterior cord of brachial plexus Short subscapular nerve Long subscapular nerve Lower subscapular nerve Biceps\ f Short hearts I LoiiH liead- Latissimus dorsi lernal cutaneous branch Mnsculo-cutaneous nerve~ Brachialis anticus- Musculo-spiral nerve Brachio-radialis. Biceps (cut) Extensor carpi radialis longior Posterior interosseous nerve" Radial nerve- Slpinator radii brevis- of musculo-spiral nerve Triceps (long head) Nerve to inner head of criceps (ulnar colliiteial) coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps: with the capsule of the shoulder Joint: with the head of the hmnerus, the long head of the biceps and the attachments of the subscapularis, supraspinatus, infra- spinatus, and teres minor: and with the upper part of the shaft of the humerus and the circumflex vessels and nerve. The most an- terior part of the miiscle is formed of parallel fibres, not uncommonly separate from the rest of the muscle at their origin from the clavicle. These fibres may be continuous with the trapezius over the clavicle. The most posterior part arises by a fascial origin from the spine of the scapula and the fascia over the infraspinatus muscle. These por- tions are attached respectively to the front and back of the main tendon of insertion. The inter- mediate fibres are multipennate, attached above and below to three or four septal tendons, which extend for a variable distance from the origin and insertion of the muscle. The supraspinatus arises from the supraspinous fossa and the deep fascia over it. It is directed outwards under the acromion process and coraco- acromial ligament, to be inserted by a broad thick tendon into the uppermost Origin of flexor HCSCLES of forearm 1' LEXOR .:'rofundus digitorum Fig. 235.—The Posteuioe Wall op the Axilla and thh; Front of the Arm'(the biceps beiiig divided).