THE FEMUR 217 Fig. 160.—Right Femur as seen from the Front. Heap of the iliac portion of the ilio-pectineal line, which serves in the adult to separate sharply the false from the true pelvis. This part of the hone is remarkably strong, as has been shown (see Architecture), and serves to transmit the body weiglit from the sacrum to the thigh bone. The sexual differences of the jielvis, so far as they refer to the general configuration of this part of the skeleton, are as pronounced at the third or fourth month of foetal life as they are in the adult (Fehling, Ztschr. f. Gehurtsh. u. GynaeJc., Bd. ix. and x.; A. Thomson, Journ. Anat. and Phymol., vol. xxxiii. p. 359). The rougher ai^jiear- ance of the male type is correlated with the more powerful muscular development. Pyrifoniiis Gluteus minimus Great trochanter Spiral line The Femur. The femur or thigh bone is remark- able for its length, being the longest bone in the body. Superiorly the femora are separated by the width of the pelvis. Inferiorly they articulate with the tibipe and patellae. In the military position of attention, with the knees close together, the shafts of the thigh bones occupy an oblique position. For descriptive purposes the bone is divided into an upper ex- tremity, comprising the head, neck, and two trochanters; a shaft; and a lower extremity, forming the expansions known as the condyles. The head (caput femoris) is the hemi- spherical articular surface which, when coated with cartilage, fits into the acetab- ular hollow. Its pole is directed upwards and inwards and slightly forwards. A little below tlie summit, and usually somewhat behind it, is a hollow oval pit (fovea capitis femoris) for the attach- ment of the ligamentum teres. The cir- cumference of the head forms a lip with a wavy outline, more prominent above and behind than in front. The head is supported by a stout compressed bar of bone, the neck (collum femoris), which forms with the upper end of the shaft an angle of about 125 degrees, and is directed upwards, inwards, and a little forwards. Its vertical width exceeds its antero- posterior thickness. Constricted about its middle, it expands in- ternally to support the head, whilst externally, where it joins the shaft, its vertical diameter is much increased. An- teriorly it is clearly defined from the shaft by a rough ridge which commences above on a prominence, sometimes called the tubercle of the femur, and passes obliquely down- External tiiberosit\ Popliteus External (.'ONdyle Adductor tubercle Adductor ~iHagnus Internal tuberosity Internal condyle