260 THE AETICULATIONS OE JOINTS Emenentia articularis Fig. 205.—Section through the Temporo- mandibular Joint. plete, but is very thiu on the inner side. The outer wall of the capsule—the external lateral ligament (lig. temporo-mandibulare, Fig. 204)—is divisible into anterior and posterior portions which are attached superiorly to the root tubercle -g and lower border of the zygoma, and inferiorly to the outer side and posterior border of the neck of the mandible. The direction of its fibres is downwards and backwards. Within the capsule there is an inter- articular disc or meniscus of fibro-cartilage, the discus articularis (Fig. 205), which is moulded upon the condyle of the mandible below, and on the articular surface of the temporal bone above. It thus compensates for the incongruity between the articular surfaces of the two bones. The disc is attached circumferentially to the capsule. It is widest in the transverse direction, thicker behind than in front, and thinnest towards the centre, where it may be per- forated. Its anterior margin is intimately associated with the insertion of the external pterygoid muscle. A synovial membrane lines each of the compartments into which the joint cavity is divided by the meniscus. As a rule these membranes are separate from each other, but they become continuous when the disc is perforated. The upper synovial membrane is larger and more loosely disposed than the lower. Situated on the mesial aspect of the joint, but at a short distance from it, and quite distinct from the capsule, there is an accessory ligament called the internal lateral ligament (lig. spheno-mandi- bulare, Fig. 206). Superiorly it is attached to the spinous process of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, and inferiorly to the lower as well as the hinder border or lingula of the inferior dental foramen. It is not an articular ligament in the true sense, for instead of being connected with the joint, it is developed in the tissue surrounding part of Meckel's cartilage. I^^ANDIBLE ' Stylo-maiidibular .'^^J' ligament Portions of the following structures are found ill the interval between the spheno- inandibular ligament and the ascending ramus of the mandible—viz. the external pterygoid muscle; internal maxillary vessels; inferior dental vessels and nerve; middle meningeal vessels; auriculo-temporal nerve ; a deep portion of the parotid gland. Movements of the Mandible.—The nature of the movements which the lower jaw can perform is determined jiartly Ijy the character of the articular surfaces of the temporo-mandibular joint, and partly by the fact that, while the two joints always act simultaneously, they may also, to some extent, perform the same movement alternately. When movement takes place through the long or transverse horizontal axis of each joint, the mandible may be elevated, as in clenching tlie teeth, or it may be depressed, as in gaping. In the latter movement the condyle leaves the glenoid fossa, and, along with the meniscus, it moves forwards until they rest uj^on the articular eminence. Meantime the chin describes the arc of a circle, of which the centre or point of least movement corresponds to the position of the inferior dental foramen, and thus the structures which enter at that foramen are protected against stretching. Coincidently with the forward movement of the condyle, it glides in a revolving manner upon the inferior aspect of the meniscus. At any stage in the movement of depressing the chin the mandible may be protruded, so that the inferior incisor teeth are projected in front of the upjier set, a movement which results from the condyles of the jaw being drawn forwards upon the articular emiueuces. A similar Splieno-nianilibular or internal lateral^^/ liL'ainont Fig. 206.—Internal Lateral Ligament of the Temporo-Maxillary Joint.