LATEEAL AND PEEVERTEBEAL MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 391 inserted beneath the levator palati into the posterior border of the hard palate, and into the aponeurosis of the soft palate. The palato-glossus muscle occupying the under surface of the soft palate and the anterior pillar of the fauces, has already been described with the muscles of the tongue (p. 382). Nerve Supply. The chief nerve supply of the muscles of the pharynx and soft palate is the spinal accessory- nerve, aided by the fifth (otic ganglion) and the ninth (glosso-pharjTigeal) nerves and the laryngeal branches of the vagus nerve. Muscles. Nerves. Origin. Constrictors of jjharynx'j Palato-glossus Palato-pharyngeus J- Levator palati Azygos uvulse J . Tensor palati ..... Stylo-jjliaryngeus .... Inferior constrictor.... Pharyngeal plexus . Otic ganglion . Grlosso-pharyngeal . /External laryngeal-) (.Inferior laryngeal / XL V. IX. X. Actions. The muscles of the pharyny and soft palate are chiefly brought into action in the act of s-w-allQ-w-ing. This act is divided into a voluntary stage, in -which the bolus lies in front of the pillars of the fauces, and an involuntary stage, during -wdiich the food passes from the mouth through the pharynx. The movements occurring during the passage of food through the mouth are as follows : the cheeks are compressed by the action of the buccinator muscles ; the tongue, hyoid bone, and thyroid cartilage are successively raised up-wards by the action of the muscles which close the mouth and elevate the hyoid bone. By these means the food is pushed back- wards between the jDillars of the fauces. At the same time, by the contraction of the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus, the pillars of the fauces are narrowed, while the muscles of the soft palate, contracting, tighten the soft palate, and by bringing it in contact with the posterior wall of the pharynx, shut off the upper (nasal) portion of the cavity. The elevation of the tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx simultaneously raise the epiglottis and the opening of the glottis, which is closed by the approximation of the arytenoid cartilages and the combined action of laryngeal muscles (arytenoideus, thyro-arytenoideus, and thyro-aryteno-epiglottideus). The food thus slips over the posterior surface of the epiglottis and the closed opening into the larynx, and between the pillars of the fauces on either side, to the pharynx. It is now clasped by the constrictor muscles, which, by frequent contractions, force it down into the oesophagus. The contraction of the constrictor muscles results in a flattening of the pharynx and elevation of its anterior attachments. During swallowing the tensor palati, besides stretching the soft palate, is generally regarded as opening the Eustachian tube* It has been held, on the other hand, that the Eustachian tube is closed during swallowing by the compression of its wall by the contraction of the levator palati. Lateral and Peevertebral Muscles of the Neck. Three series of muscles ''are comprised in this group: (1) vertebro-costal (scaleni, anticus, medius, and posticus), (2) vertebro-cranial (recti capitis antici, major and minor, and lateralis), and (3) vertebral (longus colli). The scalenus anticus arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and descends behind the carotid sheath, to be inserted into the scalene tubercle and ridge on the first rib. In front of the muscle are the subclavian and internal jugular veins, and the nerves descending through the neck. Behind, it is separated from the scalenus medius by the cords of the brachial plexus, the subclavian artery, and the pleura. The scalenus medius arises from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrse, from the second to the sixth. It descends in the floor of the posterior triangle, to be inserted into the rough impression on the first rib behind the subclavian artery. The muscle is covered anteriorly by the cords of the brachial plexus, subclavian artery, and omo-hyoid muscle, and is in contact behind -with the levator anguli scapulte and the scalenus posticus. It is pierced by the posterior scapular and posterior thoracic nerves. 25 a