FISSURE OF SYLVIUS. 513 elevations ou its wall. The complete fissures are the following: (1) the dentate or hippocampal fissure; (2) the anterior part of the calcarine fissure; and (3) a portion of the collateral fissure. The incomplete fissures are merely surface furrows of very varying depth, which do not produce any effect on the inner surface of the ventricular wall. General Structure of the Cerebral Hemispheres.—Each cerebral hemisphere is composed of an outside coating of gray matter, spread in a continuous and un- interrupted layer over its surface, and an internal mass of white matter, which forms for the most part the immediate wall of the ventricular cavity. The gray coating is termed the cerebral cortex, and the internal white matter is called the medullary centre. Each convolution shows a corresponding structure. On transverse section it is seen to present an external covering of gray cortex, supported by a central core of white matter. But, in addition to the gray matter on the outside, there are certain large deposits of gray matter embedded in the basal part of eaclr. cerebral hemisphere. These cerebral nuclei constitute the corpus striatum, and, although to some extent isolated from the gray matter on the surface, it can be easily shown that at certain points they are directly continuous with it. By means of the convolutions and sulci, the gray matter on the surface of the hemisphere is enormously increased in quantity without unduly adding to the bulk of the organ; and, further, the vascular pia mater, which dips into every fissure, is increased in extent to a like degree. Opportunity is, therefore, afforded to the cortical vessels of breaking up into twigs of exceeding fineness before they enter the substance of the hemisphere. The distribution of blood to the gray cortex is, in this way, equahsed and rendered uniform. Cerebral Lobes and Interlobar Fissures.— Certain of the fissures which traverse the surface of the cerebrum are arbitrarily chosen for subdividing the surface into districts or areas, which are termed lobes. These fissures are termed interlobar, and are the following: (1) the fissure of Sylvius; (2) the fissure little Eolando; (3) the parieto-occipital; (4) the calloso-marginal; (5) the collateral; and (6) the limiting sulcus of Eeil. The lobes which are mapped out by these fissures are: (1) the frontal; (2) the parietal; (3) the occipital; (4) the temporal; (5) the insula, or the Island of Eeil; (6) the limbic. To these may be added a seventh lobe, in no way related to the interlobar fissures, viz. the olfactory lobe. With the exception of the occipital and olfactory lobes and the insula, this subdivision of the hemisphere presents little morphological or physiological value, and is chiefly adopted for topographical purposes. Fissure of Sylvius (fissura cerebri lateralis).—This is the most conspicuous fissure on the surface of the cerebral hemisphere. It is composed of a short main stem, from the outer extremity of which three branches or limbs radiate. The stem of the Sylvian fissure is placed on the inferior surface of the hemisphere. It begins at the locus perforatus anticus in a depression termed the vallecula Sylvii. From this it passes horizontally outwards, forming a deep cleft between the temporal pole and the orbital surface of the frontal lobe. Appearing ou the outer surface of the hemisphere at a point called the Sylvian point, the Sylvian fissure immediately divides into three radiating branches. These are: (1) the ramus horizontalis posterior; (2) the ramus horizontalis anterior; (3) the ramus anterior ascendens. The posterior horizontal limb is the longest and best marked of the three limbs. It extends backwards, with a slight inclination upwards on the outer surface of the hemisphere for a distance which may vary from about two to three inches. It intervenes between the frontal and parietal lobes which lie above it and the temporal lobe which lies below it, and it finally ends in the region subjacent to the parietal eminence of the cranial wall by turning upwards into the parietal lobe in the form of an ascending tei'minal 'piece. The anterior horizontal limb extends horizontally forwards in the frontal lobe for a distance of about three-quarters of an inch immediately above and parallel to the posterior part of the superciliary margin of the hemisphere. 33