THE FACE. ] 17:5 reached as it enters the inferior dental canal; the lingual nerve, whicli lies a little anterior to the inferior dental, can be exposed through the same opening. The facial nerve, after emerging from the stylo-niastoid foramen, is imbedded in the parotid gland where it is superficial to the external carotid artery; the nerve can be rolled under the finger as it crosses the posterior border of the ascend- ing ramus of the jaw at the level of the lower margin of the tragus; incisions con- tinued along the ramus above this point should be only skin deep if the nerve is to be avoided. To expose the trunk of the nerve an incision is made from the anterior border of the mastoid process to the angle of the jaw. Incisions upon the cheek should, whenever possible, be planned so as to run parallel with the branches of the nerve; these radiate from the lower end of the tragus. The nerve may l>e paralysed by wounds of the cheek and by malignant tumours of the parotid, as also by intracranial and middle-ear lesions. The parotid gland is surrounded by a fascial envelope, the strongest portion of which is continued from the deep cervical fascia over its superficial aspect to become attached to the zygoma (Eig. 047); hence abscesses in the parotid tend to burrow deeply towards the pterygo-maxillary space and the upper part of the pharynx ; the pus should therefore be evacuated by Hilton's method, through an early incision over the angle of the jaw. A study of the relations of the gland explains the surgical difficulties which attend its complete removal. The parotid duct can be rolled beneath the finger as it crosses the masseter, rather less than a finger's breadth below the zygoma. After winding over the anterior border of the muscle it soon pierces the buccinator, and opens into the mouth opposite to the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The level and direc- tion of the duct may be marked out upon the surface by drawing a line from the lower margin of tlie concha to a point midway between the ala nasi and the angle of the mouth. Superficial to the parotid and a little in front of the tragus is the pre-auricular lymphatic gland, which is frequently found to be inflamed in children suffering from eczematous conditions of the eyelids, face, scalp, and external ear. In opening an abscess connected with this gland care must be taken to make the incision as low down as possible, so as to avoid the parotid duct. Eyelids.—The skiu of the eyelids, more especially of the upper, is very thin and connected with the orbicularis muscle by delicate and lax subcutaneous tissue destitute of fat; hence the marked swelling which occurs in a " black eye " and in (edema of the lids. Along the anterior edge of the free margins of the lids are the eyelashes and the orifices of the sebaceous glands, suppurati\'e inflammation of which gives rise to a " sitye"; along the sharp posterior edge of the free margins are the minute orifices of the Meibomian glands. These glands, imbedded in the deep surface of the tarsal plates, are seen through tlie palpebral conjunctiva as a row of pai-allel, yellowish, granular-looking streaks. From the deep position of the glands it follows that the skin over a Meibomian cyst is freely movable, and that to reach the cyst an incision should 1)e made through the conjunctival surface of the lid. The palpebral conjunctiva is closely adlierent to the («ular surface of the tarsal plates; at the fornix it is loose and contains small lymphoid follicles, which become hypertrophied in the condition known as granular conjunctivitis. The ocular conjunctiva is thin,.transparent, and loosely attached to the sclerotic, so that in operating upon the eye a fold of the membrane can be picked up witli forceps to steady the eyeltall. J11 inflammatory affections of the eye the state of those vessels whicli are visible gives important information as to the seat of the mischief. For example, in inflaumiation of the conjunctiva the posterior conjunctival vessels (derived from the palpebral arteries), scarcely visible normally, appear as a close network which fad^es away towards the corneal margin ; these vessels move freely with the conjunctiva, and do not disappear under pres- sure. In superficial inflammations of the cornea the anterior conjunctival vessels (the most superficial of the terminal branches of the anterior ciliary arteries) are seen to spread in a freely branching manner into its superficial layers. In iritis and dee]) inflaui- matious of the cornea there is a pink circumcorneal /.one 'of vascular dilatation consisting