THE I'HAEYNX. 981 carotid sheaths with their contents, whilst the styloid process with its miiscles, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, running downwards and forwards, form lateral relations in its upper part. Above, the pharynx is united to the basi-occipital and the petrous portion of the temporal bones, as already described; and helow, it joins the oesophagus. The cavity of the pharynx is widest above in the naso-pharynx, immediately behind the Eustachian tubes (Fig. 660), where it extends out on each side, over the upper border of the superior constrictor, in the form of a pouch—the lateral Middle turbinated bone Middle meatus of nose Inferior meatus of nose. Superior meatus of nose Sphenoidal sinus Inferior turbinated bone Posterior edge of nasal septum Orifice of Eustachian tube Bursa pharyngea Part of the pliaryngeal tonsil Lateral recess of pharynx Levator cushion Salpingo- pharyngeal fold Olands in soft I.al.-itr Antrrior lalatine arch Snjiratonsillar I'ussa Plica triangularis Tonsil Posterior palatine arch Gemoglossu Epiglottis Aryteno- epiglottic ^1(1 Cricoid cartilage Geniohyoid Lymphoid follicle Hyoid bone Fi(!. Gtil.—Sagittal Sectkin through Mouth, Tongue, Lakynx, Pharynx, and Nasal Cavity. The section is slightly oblique, and the posterior edge of the nasal septum has been preserved. The specimen is viewed slightly from below, hence in part the low position of the inferior turbinated bone. recess. Its width is also considera])le opposite the upper part of the thyroid carti- lage, but it rapidly diminishes below the laryngeal orifice, and is narrowest at its termination in the oesophagus. The cavity is interrupted above by the soft palate, a movable muscular sheet, which is attached in front to the hard palate, and laterally to the side walls of the pharynx. This sheet, sloping obliquely backwards and downwards, cuts into the cavity of the pharynx (Fig. 661), and, falling short of the posterior wall, incom- pletely divides it into two, namely, an upper part or naso-pharynx (pars nasalis), and a