800 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. coeliac axis. It runs a more or less tortuous course behind the stomach and the lesser sac of the peritoneum, and along the upper border of the pancreas. It lies in front of the left suprarenal capsule and the upper end of the left kidney, and passes forwards between the two layers of the lieno-renal ligament, where it divides into from five to eight terminal Ijranches (rami lienales), which enter the hilus of the spleen and supply the splenic substance. It is accompanied by the splenic vein, which lies Ijelow it. Branches.—(i.) Pancreatic (rami pancrcatici).—Numerous small branches (pancreatica parvse) are given off to the pancreas. One large branch (pancreatica magna), occasionally present, enters the upper border of the pancreas, about the junction of its middle and left thirds, and runs from left to right in the substance of the pancreas, a little above and behind tlie jjancreatic duct. Both the small and large arteries supply the substance of the pancreas, and anastomose witli one another and with branches of the pancreatico- duodenal arteries. (ii.) The vasa brevia (aa. gastricje breves), or short gastric branches, four or five in number, are given oft' either from the end of the main vessel or, more commonly, from some of its terminal branches. They pass between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum to the left end of great curvature of the stomach, and anastomose with the oesophageal, the gastric, and the left gastro-epiploic arteries. (iii.) The left gastro-epiploic branch (a. gastro-epiploica sinistra) arises from the front of the splenic, close to its termination, and passes forwards between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum to the left end of the great curvature of the stomach, along which it is continued, from left to right, between the layers of the gastro-colic or great omentum. It ends by anastomosing with the right gastro-epiploic artery, and it gives off numerous gastric branches to both surfaces of the stomach, which anastomose with the vasa brevia and with branches of the coronary and pyloric arteries. Long slender omental branches pass to the omentum and anastomose with branches of the colic arteries. (c) The hepatic artery (a. hepatica, Fig. 567) runs along the upper border of the head of the pancreas to the right pancreatico-gastric fold of peritoneum, in which it turns forwards to the upper border of the first part of the duodenum. It then passes upwards, between the layers of the small omentum, in front of the portal vein and to the left of the common bile duct, and reaches the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into right and left branches. Branches. — (i.) The pyloric artery (a. gastrica dextra) is a small branch which arises opposite the upper border of the first part of the duodenum. It descends to the pylorus, running between the layers of the small omentum, and then turns to the left along the smaller curvature of the stomach. It gives branches to both surfaces of the stomach, and terminates by anastomosing with the coronary artery. (ii.) The gastro-duodenal artery (a. gastro-duodenalis).—This branch of the hepatic arises just above the upper border, descends behind, and terminates opposite the lower liorder of the first jiart of the duodenum. In its course it lies between the neck of the pancreas and the first part of the duodenum, and it is in front of the portal vein. The common bile duct is on its right side. The vessel ends by dividing into the right gastro- epiploic and the superior pancreatico-duodenal arteries. The right gastro-epiploic artery (a. gastro-epiploica dextra) is the larger of the two terminal branches of the gastro- duodenal ; it passes from right to left along the greater curvature of the stomach, between the layers of the gastro-colic omentum, and unites with the left gastro-epiploic branch of the splenic artery. From the arterial arch so formed branches pass upwards on both surfaces of the stomach, and anastomose with branches of the pyloric and coronary arteries. Other branches pass downwards to the omentum, and anastomose with branches of the colic arteries. The superior pancreatico-duodenal artery (a. pancreatico-duodenalis superior) runs a short course to the riglit, between the duodenum and the head of the pancreas, and divides into anterior and posterior terminal branches which descend, the former in front of and the latter behind the head of the pancreas, to anastomose with similar branches of the inferior jmncreatico-duodenal artery. They supply the head of the pancreas, anastomosing in it with the pancreatic branches of the splenic artery ; branches are also given to the second part of the duodeimm and to the common bile duct. (iii.) Terminal branches.—The right hepatic artery (ramus dexter) passes either in front of or behind the hepatic duct and behind the cystic duct, to the right end of the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into two or more branches which enter the