139 THE INFEEIOE MAXILLAEY BONE. towards the nasal fossa, whilst its inner edge is in contact with the ala of the vomer. Connexions.—The palate bone articulates witli its fellow of the ojjposite side, with the ethmoid, vomer, sphenoid, superior maxilla, and inferior turbinated bones. Ossification.—The palate bones are developed from the ossification of the membrane covering the sides of the oral cavity. According to Rambaud and Renault, two primitive centres appear about the sixth week of foetal life. From one of these the tuberosity and the part of the vertical plate behind the posterior palatine groove is developed ; from the other the remainder of the bone is formed, with the exception of the orbital and sphenoidal processes which are derived from secondaiy centres that make their appearance some- what later. Other authorities describe the bone as ossifying from a single centre which appears about the end of the second month in the angle between the vertical and hori- zontal plates. At birth the bone- is much longer in its antero-posterior diameter than in its vertical height, the converse bf its typical adult form. The Inferior Maxillary Bone. The inferior maxilla (mandibula) or mandible, of horse-shoe shape, with the extremities upturned, is the only movable bone of the face. Stout and strong, it supports the teeth of the lower dental arch, and articulates with the base of the cranium, by the joints on either side between <, its condyles and the glenoid fossae of the temporal bones. The anterior or horizontal part, which contains the teeth, is called the body (corpus); the posterior or vertical por- tions constitute the rami (rami mandibulte). The body (corpus mandibula") displays in the middle line in front a faint \'ertical ridge, the symphysis, which indicates tlie line of fusion of the two symmetrical hah'es, from which the bone is prnnarily developed. In- feriorly this ridge divides so as to enclose, in well- marked speci- mens, a triangular area—the mental protuberance (pro- tuberantia nien- talis), the centre of which is some- what depressed, thus emphasising the inferior angles, whicli are known as the mental tubercles no.—The Lower Jaw as seen fkom the Left Side. 12. Masseter. 13. Angle. 14. External oblique line. 15. Platysma. 16. Meutal foramen. 17. Depressor anguli oris. (tuberamentalia). ^- Mental tubercle. The nvfpr 'ivrfnrP l' P^^P'^^ssor labii inferioris. xne outer SUrjace ^ Mental prominence, is crossed by a 4. Levator mentis. faint elevated 5- Symphysis. ridge, the external ^uecinator muscle. 7. Coronoid process. 8. Temporal muscle. 9. Condyles. 10. External pterygoid muscle. 11. Neck. pbhque line (Imea obliqua), which runs upwards and backwards from the mental tubercle to the fore part of the anterior border of the ramus, with which it is contiuent. A little above this, midway between the upper and lower borders of the jaw, and m line with the root of the second bicuspid tooth, the bone IS pierced by the mental foramen (foramen mentale), which is the anterior opening of the inferior dental canal, which traverses the body of the bone. Through this