THE ETHMOID BONE. 125 short and shallow grooves leading to the foramma which pierce the cril)riform plate ; these are for the lodgment of the olfactory nerves. The lateral mass or labyrinth (labyrinthus) is composed of papery bone, enclosing a large number of air cells; these are arranged in three groups, an anterior, a middle, and a posterior, the walls of which have been broken in front, above, behind, and below, in the pro- ces*s of disarticulation. Externally they are closed in by a thin ob- long lamina, the orbital plate or os planum (lamina papyracea), which forms a part of the inner wall of the orbit, and articulates above with the orljital plate of the frontal, which here roofs in the ethmoidal cells. The line of this suture is pierced by two canals, the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals, both of which transmit small ethmoidal vessels, whilst the anterior also gives passage to the nasal nerve. In front the os planum articu- lates with the lachrymal bone; whilst below, by its union with the orbital surface of the superior maxillary bone, the air sinuses in both situations are completed. Posteriorly the os planum articulates with the sphenoid, and at its posterior inferior angle for a variable distance with the orl)ital process of the palate bone, both of which serve to close in the air cells. The mesial aspect of the lateral mass displays the convoluted turbinated processes, usiially two in number, though occasionally there may be three — rarely more. In cases where there are two ethmo-turbinals they are separated posteriorly by a deep groove. A channel is thus formed in the back part of the lateral and upper aspect of the nasal fossae, called the superior meatus, which is roofed in by the superior turbinated process (concha superior), whilst its floor is formed by the upper surface of the middle turbinated process (concha media). The posterior ethmoidal cells open into this ^ ., .„ ... 1 meatus. In front of the superior meatus, Cnbriforin Anterior etlimoidaU 1 ' which only grooves the posterior half of this aspect of the bone, the surface is rounded from above downwards and before backwards, and forms the inner wall of the anterior and middle ethmoidal cells. Running obliquely from above downwards, and backwards over the mesial surface of the superior concha, are a number of fine grooves continuous above with the fora- mina in the cribriform plate; these are fewer and more scattered in front, do not pass on to the middle concha, and are for the olfactory nerves. The middle turbinated process (concha media) is nearly twice the length of the superior. Its anterior extremity is united for a short distance to the superior turbinated crest on the inner side of the frontal process of the superior maxilla. By its thickened free convoluted border it overhangs a deep groove which runs along the under surface of the lateral mass. This is the middle meatus of the nose. It receives the openings of the middle ethmoidal cells and a passage which runs upwards and forwards from it, the infundibulum. This communicates with the anterior ethmoidal cells and the frontal sinus. The outer side of the middle meatus is formed by the thin inner Unciform process Fig. 97.—Section showing Nasal Aspect of Left Lateral Mass of Ethmoid.