731 APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. and presents, especially under the anterior part of the body, numerous longitudin- ally-arranged papillfe. The part of the corinm under the body is termed the nail ¥ks. 539.—TiiANSvKKSE Section op a Nail. bed; that under the root, the nail matrix. The deep part of the nail consists of the stratum germinativum and stratum mucosum,'while its superficial horny portion is constituted by a greatly thickened stratum lucidum, and consists of nucleated, keratinised squames. The stratum corneuui is represented by the thin cuticular fold overlapping the lunula, and termed the eponychium, while the stratum granu- losum can only be traced as far forwards as the nail root. Root of nail Fig. .040.—Lonoitudixal Section tukouuh Root of Naii,. Hairs.—Hairs (pili) are well developed on the scalp, pubes, and margins of the eyelids, in the axilla, the vestibule of the nose, and at the entrance to the concha, and also on the face of the male. Those on the genitals and face appear about puberty. Piudimentary over the greater part of the body, they are entirely absent on the flexor surfaces of the hands and feet, over the dorsal aspect of the terminal phalanges, the glans penis, the inner surface of the prepuce, and inner aspect of the labia. Marked variations, individual and racial, exist as to the colour of the hair, and also as to the manner of its growth ; hence the terms straight, curly, woolly, etc., are used to designate it. Straight hairs are coarser than curly ones, and have, moreover, a circular or oval outline on transverse section, curly hairs being Hat and riband-like. The root of the hair (radix pili) is embedded in a depression of the skin, termed the hair follicle (Fig. 536); while the free portion is named the stem or shaft, and consists from without inwards of three parts, viz. cuticle, cortex, and medulla. The cuticle is formed by a layer of imbricated scales which overlap one another from below upwards. The cortex consists of longitudinally-arranged fibres made up of elongated, closely-applied, fusiform cells, which contain pigment and sometimes air spaces, the latter especially in white hairs. The medulla., absent from the flne hairs of the body generally and from the hairs of young children, forms a central coi^e, which appears black by transmitted and white by reflected light, and is composed of polyhedral nucleated cells containing pigment, fat granules, and air spaces.