772 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. front of the cms cerebri, and passing above the third nerve, joins the posterior cerebral artery forming part of the circle of Willis. It gives branches to the optic tract, the cms cerebri, the interpeduncular region, and the uncinate convolution of the brain. The posterior communicating artery varies mvich in size; it may be small on one or both sides, sometimes it is very large on one side; occasionally it replaces the posterior cerebral artery, and it sometimes ari^ses from the middle cerebral artery. (7) The anterior chorioidal (a. chorioidea) is a small branch, which also rises near the termination of the internal carotid ; it passes backwards and outwards, between the crus cerebri and the uncinate convolution, to the lower and front pai't of the chorioidal fissure which it enters, and it tei'niinates in the chorioidal plexus in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. It supplies the optic tract, the crus cerebri, the uncinate convolution, and the posterior part of the internal capsule. (8) Anterior Cerebral Artery (a. cerebri anterior). This is the smaller . of the two terminal Ijrauches of the internal carotid. It passes forwards and in- wards, above the optic chiasma and immediately in front of the lamina cinerea, to the commencement of the great longitudinal fissure, where it turns round the genu of the corpus callosum, and runs backwards to the parietal lobe of the brain. At the commencement of the great longitudinal fissure it ,is closely connected with its fellow of the opposite side by a wide but short anterior communicating artery (a. communicans anterior), and in the remainder of its course it is closely accompanied by its fellow artery of the opposite side. Branches.—Branches of all the cerebral arteries are distributed both to the basal ganglionic masses of the brain and to the cerebral cortex ; they therefore form two dis- tinct groups—{(() central or ganglionic ; (b) cortical. The branches of the anterior cerebi'al include : (a) Central or ganglionic hranches.—The antero-mesial arteries, a small group of vessels, constitute the central branches of the anterior cerebral artery; they-pass upwards into the base of the brain in front of the optic chiasma, and supply the rostrum of the corpus callosum, the lamina cinerea, and the septimi lucidum. (6) Cortical branches. -— (6^) Internal orbital, one or more small branches which supply the internal orbital convolution, the gyms rectus, and the olfactory lobe. (IS-) Anterior internal frontal, one or more branches which are distril)nted to the anterior and lower part of the marginal convolution, and to the anterior portions of the superior and middle frontal convolutions. (l)"^) A middle internal frontal is distributed to the posterior part of the marginal convolution, and to the upper portions of the superior and ascending frontal and ascend- ing parietal convolutions. (6*) The posterior internal frontal runs backwards to the quadrate lobule. It sup- plies the corpus callosum, the quadrate lobe, and the upper part of the superior parietal lobule. (9) Middle Cerebral Artery (a. cerebri media).—The middle cerebral is the larger of the two terminal branches, and the more direct continuation of the internal carotid artery. It passes outwards in the fissure of Sylvius to the outer surface of the island of Reil, which it crosses; and divides, in the posterior limiting sulcus of Reil, into parieto-temporal and temporal terminal branches. Branches.—(a) Central or ganglionic.—Numerous and very variable in size. These branches are given off at the base of the brain, in the region of the anterior perforated space. Two sets, known as the internal and the external striate arteries, are distinguisliable.' (a^) The internal striate arteries pass upwards through the two inner segments of the lenticular nucleus (globus pallidus) and the internal capsule to terminate in the caudate nucleus. They supply the anterior portions of the lenticular and caudate nuclei and of the internal capsule. (a^) The external striate arteries pass upwards through the outer segment (puta- men) of the lenticular nucleus, or between it and the external capsule, and they form two sets, an anterior, the lenticulo-striate, and a posterior, the lenticulo-optic; both sets tra- verse the lenticular nucleus and the internal capsule, but the lenticulo-striate arteries terminate in the caudate nucleus, and the lenticulo-optic in the optic thalamus. One of the lenticulo-striate arteries, which passes in the first instance round the outer side of the lenticular nucleus, and afterwards through-its substance, is larger than its companions; it frequently ruptures, and is known as the artery of cerebral haemorrhage.