THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. 650 stiual spaces, and their relations are diti'erent on the two sides, (a) In the superior mediasfimim the right nerve continues its course alongside the innominate artery and the trachea, and behind the right innominate vein and superior vena cava, to the back of the root of the lung. The left nerve courses downwards between the left common carotid and subclavian arteries, and behind the left innominate vein and the phrenic nerve. It passes over the aortic arch, and then proceeds to the back of the root of the left lung. (&) In the posterior mediastinum the pneumogastric nerves are concerned in the formation of two great plexuses—the pulmonary and the oesophageal. Behind the root of each lung the nerve breaks up to form the large posterior pulmonary plexus, from the lower end of which two nerves emerge on each side. These nerves on the right side pass obliquely over the vena azygos major; on the left side they cross the thoracic aorta. Both series reach the cesophagus, and divide into small anastomosing Ijranches which form the oesophageal plexus. At the CESophageal opening of the diaphragm the two nerves become separated from the plexus, and entering the abdomen—the left nerve in front of the oesophagus, the right nerve behind it—they terminate by supplying the stomach and other abdominal organs. The communications and branches of the pneumogastric nerve may be described as (i.) ganglionic, (ii.) cervical, (iii.) thoracic, and (iv.) abdominal (Fig. 467). The ganglion of the root (g. jugulare) is small and spherical. It occupies the jugndar foramen, and gives off two Ijranches—meningeal and auricular. The meningeal branch passes backwards to supply the dura mater of the posterior fossa of the 1 lase of the skull. The auricular branch (Arnold's nerve) ascends to the ear in a fissure between the jugular and stylo-mastoid foramina. It receives near its origin a twig from the tympanic l)ranch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and usually communicates with the facial nerve by a branch arising from the latter in the aqueduct of Fallopius. The nerve is distributed to the back of the pinna and the external auditory meatus, and communicates superficially with the posterior auricular nerve. Communications.—Besides supplying the meniiig'cal and auricular branches, the ganglion of the root of the pneiunogasti'ic nerve receives communications from (1) the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; (2) the spinal accessory nerve ; and (3) the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (sometimes). The ganglion of the trunk of the nerve (g. nodosum), placed immediately below the preceding, is large and fusiform. Like the previous ganglion, it supplies two branches—the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal nerves. The pharyngeal branch receives its fibres (through the ganglion) from the spinal accessory nerve. It passes ol)liqixely downwards and inwards to the pharynx between the internal and external carotid arteries, and combines with the pharyn- geal nerves from the glosso-pharyngeal and superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic to form the pharyngeal plexus. From this plexus the muscles of the pharynx and soft palate (except the stylo-pharyngeus and tensor palati) are supplied. The lingual branch is a small nerve which separates itself from the plexus and joins the hypoglossal nerve in the anterior triangle of the neck. The superior laryngeal nerve (n. laryngeus superior) passes obliquely down- wards and inwards, l)ehind the external and internal carotid arteries, towards the thyroid cartilage. It divides in its course into two unequal parts—a larger internal and a smaller external laryngeal nerve. The internal laryngeal nerve (ramus internus) passes inwards into the larynx between the middle and inferior constrictor muscles of the pharynx and through the thyro-hyoid membrane. It supplies the mucous membrane of the larynx, reaching upwards to the epiglottis and base of the tongue, and forms commimications beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage with the branches of the inferior laryngeal nerve. The external laryngeal nerve (ramus externus) passes downwards upon the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx. It supplies branches to that muscle, and ends in the crico-thyroid muscle. Communications.—Besides supplying these pharyngeal and laryngeal nerves, the ganglion of the trunk of the pneumogastric has the following communications with other