79 THOEACIC VEETEBEiE. The first dorsal vertebra resembles the seventh cervical in the shape of its body and the length and direction of its spine. There is an entire facet on either side of the body for the head of the first rib, and one demi- facet on each side at the lower border of its body, to complete the socket for the head of the second rib. Its transverse processes are long, and the superior inter- vertebral notch is better marked than in other mem- bers of the dorsal series. The superior articular sur- faces are directed backwards and upwards, not outwards as in the lower series. The ninth dorsal verte- bra occasionally has only the upper pair of demi- facets on its body; at other times it ^^conforms to the usual type. The tenth dorsal verte- bra may have only one com- plete costal facet on each side for the X. rib, though sometimes the articular socket may be completed by the ninth dorsal vertebra. The facet on the transverse process is generally small, and sometimes absent. The eleventh dorsal vertebra has a complete circular facet on the outer side of each pedicle for articulation with the XI. rib. Its transverse processes are short and stunted, and have no facets. The twelfth dorsal vertebra has a single facet on the pedicle on each side for the XII. rib. Its trans- verse processes, which have no facets, are broken up into smaller tubercles, called respectively the external, superior, and inferior tuber- cles. These are homologous with the transverse mam- millary and accessory pro- cesses of the lumbar verte- brae. Indications of these processes may also be met with in the tenth and eleventh dorsal vertebrae, Fig. 60. First, Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, and Twelfth Thoracic vertebr.e from the left side. Inferior articular process with out-turned facet. Single facet for head of XII. rib ; no facet on transverse process. Single facet for head of XI. rib ; no facet on transverse process. Single or demi-faoet for head of X. rib. Occasional demi-facet for head of X. rib. Demi - facet for head of IX. rib. 10, 11 . Demi-facet for head of II. rib. Single facet for head of I. rib. , Facet on transverse process for tuberosity of I. rib. , Facet on transverse process for tuberosity of IX. rib. , Facet on transverse process for tuberosity of X. rib. Superior^ Tubercles /"Mammillary. I corre- J Accessory. I. Inferior E. External^ to j sponding j Transverse of lumbar. The twelfth dorsal vertebra may usually be distinguished from the eleventh by the arrangement of its inferior articular processes, which resemble those of the lumbar series in being out-turned;