422 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Owing to the great difference which exists between the length of the spinal cord and the length of the vertebral column, the farther we pass down the greater the distance becomes between the attachment of the various nerve-roots to the cord and the invertebral foramina through which the corresponding nerves leave the spinal canal. The lower nerve-roots, therefore, have to traverse the spinal canal for a considerable distance before they reach their apertures of emergence. It thus happens that the nerve-roots which spring from the lumbar and sacral regions of the cord attain a very great length and descend vertically in the lower part of the spinal canal in a bunch or leash, in the midst of which lie the conus medullaris and the filum terminale. This great bundle of nerve-roots receives the appropriate name of tlie cauda equina. Enlargements of the Cord.—Throughout the greater part of the dorsal region, the spinal cord presents a uniform girth and a very nearly circular outline when seen in transverse section. In the cervical and lumbar regions, however, it shows marked swellings. The cervical enlargement (intumescentia cervicalis) is the more evident of the two. It begins very gradually at the upper end of the cord, attains its greatest breadth (12 to 14 mm.) opposite the fifth or Postero-lateral groove Anterior nerve-root Posterior nerve-root First lumbar \ertebra Dura mater Araclinoidea Conus Roots of first lumbar nerve Cauda equina Spinal ganglion Anterior primary division of nerve Posterior primary division of nerve Fig. 316.—Thk Roots of Origin of the Seventh Doksal Nerve (semi-diagram- Fig. 317.—Section through the CoNUS Mbddllaeis and matic). THE Cauda Equina as they lie in the Spinal Cakal. sixth cervical vertebra, and finally subsides opposite the second dorsal vertebra. To this portion of the cord are attached the great nerves which supply the upper limbs. The lumbar enlargement (intumescentia lumbalis) begins at the level of the tenth dorsal vertebra, and acquires its maximum transverse diameter (11 to- 13 mm.) opposite tlie last dorsal vertebra. Below, it rapidly tapers away into the conus medullaris. To the lumbar enlargement are attached the great nerves of the lower limbs. These enlargements of the cord are associated with the outgrowth of the limbs. In the earlier developmental stages of the spinal cord they are not present, and they only take form as the limbs become developed. In the lower mammalia their size corresponds with the degree of development of the limbs. Thus, in the long-armed orang and gibbon, the cervical swelling stands out with a remarkable degree of prominence. It is, however, interesting to note that although in the cetacea there are no visible liind-limbs, there is nevertheless a well-marked lumbar enlargement of the cord. Fissures and Furrows of the Cord.—When cross-sections of the spinal cord are made, it is seen to be a bilateral structure which is partially subdivided "into a right and left half by two median clefts—one upon the anterior and the otlier upon the posterior aspect. These clefts are termed the antero-median and the postero- median fissures, and they extend along the entire length of the cord. At the same