ACEOMIO-CLAVICULAK JOINT. 267 the conoid ligament. Superiorly it is attached to the trapezoid ridge on the under surface of the acromial end of the clavicle. Its outer and inner borders are free. Its anterior surface is principally directed upwards, and its posterior surface, to a similar extent, looks downwards. A synovial bursa usually occupies the re-entrant angle between these two ligaments. Movements at the Clavicular Joints.—The movements of the inner end of the clavicle at the sterno-clavicular joint are limited in their range, owing to the tension of the ligaments. When the shoulder is raised or depressed the outer end of the clavicle moves upwards and downwards, whilst its sternal end glides' upon the surface of the interarticular meniscus within the joint; when, on the other hand, the shoulder is carried forwards or backwards, the inner end of the clavicle, along with the interarticular meniscus moves wpou the sternal facet. In addition to these movements of elevation, depression, forward movement and backward move- ment of the clavicle, there is also allowed at the sterno-clavicular joint a certain amount of circumduction of the clavicle. The part which is played by certain of the ligaments in restraining movement requires careful consideration. The rhomboid ligament checks excessive elevation of the shoulder, and restrains within certain limits both backward and forward movement of the clavicle. When the clavicle is depressed, as in cases where a heavy weight, such as a bucket of water, is carried in the hand, it receives support by resting ujDon the first rib, and the tendency for the inner end of the bone to start up out of its sternal socket is obviated by the tension of the interarticular meniscus, the interclavicular ligament, and the anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular ligaments. The interarticular meniscus not only acts as a cushion which lessens the shock of blows received upon the shoulder, but it also acts as a most important bond of union, and prevents the inner end of the clavicle from being driven upwards wpon the top of the sternum when force is applied to its outer end. The movements at the acromio-clavicular joint are of such a kind as to allow the inferior angle, and to some extent the base of the scapula, to remain more or less closely aj^plied to the chest-wall during the various movements of the shoulder. The strong connexion between the coracoid process and the acromial end of the clavicle, by means of the conoid and trajsezoid ligaments, renders it necessary that the scapula should follow the clavicle in its various excursions. The presence of the acromio-clavicular joint, however, enables the scapula to change its position somewhat with reference to the clavicle as the shoulder is moved. Thus, when the shoulder is raised and depressed, a marked diiference takes place in the angle between the two bones; again, when the shoulder is throwir forwards or backwards, these movements can be performed without altering in a material degree the direction of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, or in other words, the socket of the shoulder-joint. The conoid and trapezoid ligaments set a limit upon the movements of the scapula at the acromio-clavicular joint. They both, but more particularly the trapezoid ligament, prevent the acromion process of the scapula from being carried inward below the outer end of the clavicle when blows fall upon the outer aspect of the shoulder. Ligaments of the Scapula. These ligaments are not directly connected with any articulation. The coraco- acromial ligament (lig. coraco-acromiale, Fig. 209) completes the arch between the coracoid and acromion processes of the scapula, and thus provides a secondary socket for the greater protection and security of the shoulder-joint. It is a flat triangular structure stretched tightly between its lines of attachment. By its base it is fixed to a varying amount of the postero-external border of the coracoid process, and by its narrower apical end to the tip of the acromion process, im- mediately external to the acromio-clavicular joint. Its surfaces look upwards and downwards, and its free borders outwards and inwards. It is thinnest in the centre, where it is sometimes perforated by a prolongation of the tendon of the pectoralis minor. The suprascapular ligament (lig. transversum scapulse superius) is a distinct but short flat band which bridges the notch of the same name. It may be continuous with the conoid ligament, and it is frequently ossified. As a rule the foramen completed by this ligament transmits the suprascapular nerve, while the corre- sponding vessels travel above the ligament to reach the supraspinous fossa. A small duplicate of this ligament may often be found bridging the foramen on its ventral aspect, subjacent to which small branches of the suprascapular artery return from the supraspinous to the subscapular fossa. The spino-glenoid ligament (lig. transversum scapulae inferius) consists of another set of bridging fibres which are situated on the posterior aspect of the