171 COEONAL SECTIONS OF THE CEANIUM. perforated or oblique. The sinuses are hardly ever symmetrical, the right being usually the smaller of the two (Logan Turner, Edin. Med. Journ. 1898). The infundibulum on either side, leading from the frontal sinus above to the middle meatus below, is seen with the middle turbinated bone internal to it, and the anterior ethmoidal cells to its outer side above. If the section passes through the canal for the nasal duct the con- tinuity of that channel leading from the orbit above to the inferior meatus of the nose below is clearly shown. Its inner wall above, by which it is separated from the cavity of the nose, is formed by the thin lachrymal bone; below, it passes under cover of the inferior turbinated bone to open into the fore part of the inferior meatus. It is separated from the antrum ex- ternally by a thin lamina of bone. The cavity of the antrum is seen to extend upwards and forwards so as to pass over the outer side as well as slightly in front of the canal for the nasal duct. The lower margins of the middle turbinated bones lie pretty nearly on a level with the most dependent parts of the orbital margins, whilst the lower borders of the inferior turbinals are placed a little above the lower margin of the anterior nares on a level with the lowest point of the malo-maxillary suture. Such a section will reveal any deflection of the nasal septum should it exist, and will also show that but a narrow cleft separates the upper part of the septum, on either side, from the inner surface of the superior turbinals. The next section (Fig. 121) passes through the fore part of the temporal fossa just behind the external angular process of the frontal bone above ; inferiorly it passes through the alveolar process of the upper jaw in the interval between the first and second molar teeth. The cranial, orbital, nasal, and maxillary cavities are all exposed, together with the roof of the mouth. The anterior cranial fossa is deepest in its centre, where its floor is formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid; this corresponds to the level of the fronto-malar suture externally. On either side the floor of the fossa bulges upwards, owing to the arching of the roof of the orbit. Of the orbital walls, the external is the thickest and stoutest; the superior, internal, and inferior walls, which separate the orbit from the cranial cavity, the 1. 21 20 19 Fig. 121.—Coronal Section passing inferiorly through Interval between First and Second Molar Teeth. loiisi- 12. Frouto-malar suture. Groove for superior tudiual sinus. 2. Crest for attaclinient of falx cerebri. 3. Crista galli of ethmoid. 4. Cribriform plate of etlimoid. 5. Perpendicular plate of eth- moid, assisting in the forma- tion of nasal septum. 6. Lateral mass of ethmoid con- sisting of tlieetlimoidal cells. 7. Os planum of ethmoid. 8. Middle meatus of nose. Middle turbinated bone. Opening from middle meatus into antrum. Orbital plate of superior maxilla. 9. 10. 11. 13. Infraorbital groove. 14. Antrnm or maxillary sinus. 15. Canal for the anterior dental nerve and vessels exposed. 16. Inferior turbinated bone. 17. Inferior meatus of nose. 18. Alveolar process of superior maxilla. 19. Groove for anterior palatine nerve and vessels. 20. Palatal process of superior maxilla. Maxillary crest forming part of nasal septum. Vomer forming part of nasal septum. 21 22,