THE INFEEIOE VENA CAVA AND ITS TKIBUTAKIES. 849 the inferior phrenic arteries are formed by tributaries which issue from the sub- stance of the diaphragm. The right vein terminates in the upper part of the inferior vena cava. The left veins pass behind the oesophagus, and usually end in the left suprarenal vein. Suprarenal Veins.—A single suprarenal vein (v. suprarenalis) issues from the hilus on the anterior surface of each suprarenal body; the right vein terminates in the inferior vena cava ; the left usually ends in the left renal vein, but sometimes also opens directly into the inferior vena cava. Renal Veins (vv. renales).—Each renal vein is formed by the union of five or six tributaries which issue from the hilus of the kidney, where they lie in front of the corresponding arteries. The right renal vein is about one inch long; it passes behind the second part of the duodenum, and terminates in the right side of the inferior vena cava. The left renal vein crosses in front of the left psoas, the left crus of the diaplu'agm, and the aorta immediately below the superior mesenteric artery. It lies behind the pancreas and the fourth part of the duodenum, and, running above the third part of the duodenum, terminates in the left side of the inferior vena cava. The left spermatic or ovarian vein, according to the sex, and almost invariably the left suprarenal vein, open into it. Lumbar Veins (vv. lumbales). — There are usually four lumbar veins on each side, one with each lumbar artery; the vein with the subcostal artery is not included in this number. The lumbar veins are formed by the union of anterior and posterior trunks between the transverse processes of the vertebras. The anterior tributaries commence in the lateral walls of the abdominal cavity, where they communicate with the superior and deep epigastric veins. The posterior trilaitaries issue, from the muscles of the back in the lumbar region, and receive tributaries from the spinal plexuses. The main stems pass forwards on the bodies of the vertebree; on each side they run under the psoas muscle, whilst those of the left side also pass behind the aorta. They terminate in the posterior part of the inferior vena cava. Not uncommonly the corresponding veins of opposite sides unite together to form a single trunk which enters the back of the inferior vena cava. All the lumbar veins of each side are united together by a longitudinal anastomosing vessel,'the ascending lumbar vein, which passes upwards in front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and usually ends aliove in an azygos vein, whilst below it connects the lumbar veins with tlie ilio- lumljar and lateral sacral veins. Spermatic Veins (vv. spermaticte).—The spermatic veins on each side issue from the testicle and epididymis and form a plexus, the favifiniform -plexus. The plexus forms part of the spermatic cord, and consists of from eight to ten veins, most of which lie in front of the vas deferens; it passes upwards in the inguinal canal, and, near the internal abdominal ring, terminates in two main trunks which ascend with the corresponding spermatic artery for some distance, receiving- tributaries from the ureter, and on the left side from the iliac and pelvic colon; ultimately the two veins unite together and a single terminal vein is formed. The terminal spermatic vein on the right side opens into the inferior vena cava, that on the left side into the left re"nal vein. The left spermatic veins are longer than the right, the left testicle being lower than the right, and the termination in the left renal vein being at a higher level than the termination of the right vein in the inferior vena cava. The spermatic veins on each side lie upon the psoas muscle and the ureter. They are covered by peritoneum, and they are crossed on the right side by the termination of the ileum and the third part of the duodenum, and. on the left side by the iliac colon. They are provided with valves both in their course and at their terminations, l)ut occasionally the* valve at the orifice of the left spermatic vein is absent. The ovarian veins (vv. ovarica;), on each side, issue from the hilus on the anterior border of the ovary. They pass between the layers of the broad hgament, where they anastomose freely and form the pampiniform plexus, which extends outwards towards the brim of the pelvis. From the plexus two veins are formed which accompany the corresponding ovarian artery ; they pass in front of the external 54