OSTEOLOGY. 198 ( )S MACNl'M Srmii.unah I HAPEZOII) 1 KAI'EZIl'M Cuneiform Unciform Extensor carpi uhlans Extensor ossis iiietacarpi i>ollicis Extensor carpi ladialis bre\'ior ^Extensor carpi " ailialis longior Metacarpal tlie figures in the position they occupy in the hand viewed from the front. Tlie views on either side and above and below represent respectively the corresponding surfaces of the bone turned towards the spectator. Scaphoid Bone (os navicitlare).—This is the largest as well as the outermost bone of the first row. It^ palmar surface, rougli for the attachment of ligaments, is irregularly triangular. The inferior external angle forms a projection called the tuberosity; this can be felt at the base of the root of the thumb. Its superior surface is convex I'rom side to side and be- fore backwards for articu- lation with the radius. This area extends con- siderably over the pos- terior surface of the bone. Its inferior surface is convex from before back- wards, and extends on to the dorsal aspect of the bone, slightly convex from side to side; it is divisible into two areas, the outer for articulation with the trapezium, the inner for the trapezoid. The outer surface is narrow and rounded and forms a non- articular border, which extends from the radial articular surface above to the tuberosity below. The inner surface is hollowed out in front for articulation with the head of the os magnum. .Above this it displays a small semilunar - shaped facet for the semilunar bone. The dorsal non- articular surface lies be- tween the radial articular surface above and the surface for the trapezium and trapezoid below. It is obliquely grooved for the attachment of the posterior ligaments of the wrist. The scaphoid articulates with five bones—the radius, the semilunar, the os magnum, the trapezoid, and the trapezium. Semilunar Bone (os lunatum).—So called from its deeply excavated form,tIie semi- lunar bone lies between the scaphoid on the outer side and the cuneiform on the inner. palmar surface, of rhomljic form and considerable size, is rough for the attachment of ligaments; its superior surface, convex from side to side and from l)efore back- wards, articulates with the radius and in part with the under surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage of the wrist. Its inferior aspect, deeply hollowed from Ijefore backwards, is divided into two articular areas, of which the outer is the larger; this is for the head of the os magnum; the inner, narrow from side to side, articulates with the unciform. Its external surface, crescentic in shape, serves for KxtMisor communis iigitoruiii and extensor iiidicis Vh:. mo. -The Bones ok the Right Whist and Hand sef.n from behind.