593 THOEACIC NEKVES. Subscapular Nerves. There are three subscapular nerves (nn. subscapulares) (Figs. 429 and 431). The first or short subscapular nerve is generally double, and there may be three trunks present. It arises from the posterior cord of the plexus behind the circumflex nerve, and from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It passes downwards behind the axillary artery and enters the subscapularis muscle. The second or lower subscapular nerve also arises behind the circumflex from the posteiior cord of the plexus, and from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. Its origin is below and external to that of the fisst nerve. It courses outwards and downwards behind the axillary artery, and below the circumflex and musculo- spiral nerves to the teres major muscle. It supplies branches to the outer part of tlae subscapularis muscle and ends in the teres major. The third or long subscapular nerve (n. thoraco-dorsalis) arises from the back of the posterior cord of the plexus, behind the niusculo-spiral nerve, and from the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, or from the seventh and eighth nerves only. It is directed downwards and outwards between the two previous nerves, behind the axillary artery and over the posterior wall of the axilla, in company with the sub- scapular artery, to the latissimus dorsi muscle, which it supplies on its anterior (inner) surface. THOEACIC NERVES. The thoracic nerves are twelve in number, each nerve emerging below the corresponding vertebra and rib. Eleven of the series are intercostal, the twelfth lying below the last rib. The first, second, third, and twelfth nerves present peculiarities in their course and distribution. The other thoracic nerves, as already stated, are simple, and may be regarded as types both in course and distribution. The first thoracic nerve is the largest of the series. It emerges from the spinal canal below the neck of the first rib, and divides in the first intercostal space into two very unequal, upper and lower, parts. The wpper larger part ascends obliquely over the neck of the first rib, lying external to the superior intercostal artery, and enters the neck behind the subclavian artery and the pleura. It pro- ceeds outwards upon the scalenus medius muscle and enters into the formation of the brachial plexus, as already described. The lower, intercostal part of the nerve is much smaller in size. It courses forwards in the first intercostal space and supplies the intercostal muscles. It usually gives off no anterior branch to the skin of the chest and no lateral cutaneous branch. In some cases a lateral cutaneous branch emerges from the side of the first intercostal space. This may be derived from the first nerve, or it may be the intercosto-liumeral nerve, derived from the second tlioracic nerve. In many cases an anterior cutaneous branch perforates the first intercostal space and supplies the skin on tlie front of tlie chest. Tliis branch, similarly, is some- times traceable to the second thoracic nerve. Communications.—Besides its junction with the eighth cervical to form the brachial plexus, the first thoracic nerve effects the following communications:—(a) The last cervical or first thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic sends a gray ramus communi- cans to join the nerve on its appearance in the thorax. (6) The second thoracic nerve in a majority of cases communicates with the first. This communication varies considerably in size and distribution. It may reinforce the intercostal branch of the nerve, it may send one branch to the intercostal portion and another to the part of the nerve joining the brachial plexus, or it may consist of a nerve proceeding solely to join the brachial plexus by a junction in the first intercostal space with the part of the first thoracic nerve, which is engaged in foz-ming. the plexus. The second thoracic nerve is of large size, though mucli smaller than the first. It passes forwards in the second intercostal space, lying at first in the sub- costal groove between the external and internal intercostal muscles. At the level of the mid-axillary line it gives off a large lateral branch; continuing its course it pierces the internal intercostal muscle and lies upon the pleura; finally, at the 38