THE MESENCEPHALON. 491 LATERAL ROOT. ^SUPR. BRACHIUM. ^INFR- BRACHIUM, ^SUPR. QUAD.BODYi 'iNFR, QUAD.BODY. Opposite side of the same geniculate body the mesial root of origin of the optic tract takes shape on the surface, and the appearance is such that the conclusion might very naturally be arrived at that the inferior brachium and this root of the optic tract are continuous with each other under the geniculate ~ PULVINAR elevation. This is not the case, however; the fibres of / jOorp:gen;ext: the inferior brachium, to a large extent, proceed into the subjacent tegmentum under cover of the internal geniculate body and help to constitute an. ascending tract from the inferior C|uadrigeminal body, which pro- WW ^ mesial root. ceeds upwards to the optic thalamus. Of the fibres lill^^-^ of the mesial root of the optic tract some end in the gray matter of the internal geniculate body, whilst others arise within it. They constitute what is called n„ „«w.^;„<,„^« Fio. 363.—Diagram of the Roots (jrudcieii s commissure. ^ t.t ^.wiixiiiiijoiiio. ^ ^jj^ Optic Nerve. The superior brachium (brachium quadrigeminuin supeiius) is carried upwards and forwards between the overhanging pulvinar and the corpus geniculatum internum. A surface examination of the mesencephalon is sufficient to show that, while a large part of this strand enters the corpus geniculatum externum, a considerable portion runs into tlie lateral root of the optic tract. The optic tract is thus attached to the brain-stem by two roots, viz. a mesial and a lateral, which are separated from each other by a distinct groove. The mesial root disappears under the internal geniculate body. The lateral root spreads out and some of its fibres enter the superior quadrigeminal body through its brachium, whilst others find their way into the corpus geniculatum externum and the pulvinar of the optic thalamus. Crura cerebri (pedunculi cerebri).—The crura cerebri constitute the chief bulk of the mesencephalon (Fig. 364, p. 492). Upon the basal aspect of the brain they appear as two large rope-like strands, which emerge close together from the upper aspect of the pons Varolii and diverge as they proceed upwards to enter the cerebrum. At the place where each crus disappears into the corresponding side of the cerebrum, it is encircled by the optic tract. Each crus cerebri is composed of two parts, viz. a dorsal tegmental part (teg- mentum), which is prolonged upwards into the region below the optic thalamus (subthalamic tegmental region), and a ventral pedal portion or crusta (basis pedun- culi), which, when traced upwards into the cerebrum, is seen to take up a position on the outer side of the optic thalamus and to be continuous with the internal capsule. When the base of the brain is examined it is the crusta which is seen, and it is observed to be white in colour and streaked in the longitudinal direction. In the tegmentum the longitudinally-arranged fibres are, for the most part, cortici- petal, or, in other words, fibres which are ascending towards the cortex of the cerebrum; the crusta, on the other hand, is entirely composed of longitudinal strands of fibres which are corticifugal or fibres which descend from the cortex cerebri. On the surface of the mesencephalon the separation between the tegmental and pedal portions of the crus cerebri is clearly indicated by an inner and an outer groove. The inner or mesial furrow is the more distinct of the two. It looks into the interpeduncular space, and from it emerge the fascicles of the third or oculo-motor nerve. It is, therefore, termed the sulcus oculo-motorii (sulcus nervi oculo-motorii). The outer groove, which is placed on the lateral aspect of the mesencephalon, receives the name of the sulcus lateralis mesencephali. When traced downwards, it is observed to become continuous with the furrow which intervenes between the middle and superior peduncles of the cerebellum. A close inspection of the outer surface of the tegmental part of the crus cerebri, below the level of the quadrigeminal brachia, will reveal some faintly-marked bundles of fibres curving obliquely upwards and backwards to reach the inferior quadrigeminal body (Fig. 335, p. 449). These are fibres of the lateral fillet, coining to the surface at the sulcus lateralis and sweeping over the subjacent superior cerebellar peduncle to gain the inferior quadrigeminal body.