G2 GENERAL EMBEYOLOGY. inferior vena cava. The mixed blood from the inferior vena cava passes through the right auricle, traverses the foramen ovale in the interauricular septum, and enters the left auricle; from the left auricle it is transferred to the left ^'entricle through the left auriculo-ventricular opening, and the left ventricle ejects it into the aorta. From the first part of the aorta some of the blood passes into the vessels which supply the head and neck and upper extremities, tlie remainder mixes witlr the blood conveyed to the aorta by the ductus arteriosus, and the blood, thus further mixed, is in part distributed to the walls of the thorax and abdomen and to the lower extremities, and in part passes to the placenta. Before birth, therefore, there is no pure arterial or fully oxygenated blood in the arteries of the foetus. The blood entering the heart by the superior vena cava is venous blood from the head, neck, upper extremities, and thorax ; that entering by the inferior vena cava is mixed Ijlood, consisting of venous blood from the lower part of the body and the lower extremities, and arterial blood from the placenta. The two streams do not mix in the right auricle, but the mixed or more arterial stream passes directlj' through the right into the left auricle, thence into the left ventricle, and from the left ventricle into the aorta or main systemic vessel, which conveys it to all parts of the liody. The different parts of the b(xly do not, however, receive etpially oxygenated blood, for the \enous stream which enters the right auricle by the superior vena cava, passes through that cavity into the right ventricle ; by the right ventricle it is forced into the pulmonary artery, from which some small part passes into the lungs, and so back to the left auricle by the pulmonary veins, but by far the greater part is carried l:)y the ductus arteriosus to the aorta, which it enters beyond the origins of the ^'essels which supply the head, neck, and \ippei' extremities; therefore the blood in the lower part of the aorta, which is distributed to the abdomen, lower limbs, and placenta, is much more mixed or impure (less oxygenated) than that which is distributed to the head, neck, and upper extremities from the upper part of the aorta. SUMMAEY OE THE EXTERNAL FEATURES OF THE HUMAN EMBRYO AT DIFFERENT PERIODS OF DEVELOPMENT. The first week.—The phenomena of fertilisation and begtiientation have not been observed in the human ovum, but there is no reason to beheve that they differ in any essential respect from those met with in the ova of other mammals. Fertilisation probably occurs in the upper part of the Fallopian tube, and segmentation is completed in the lower part of the same canal by the eighth or tenth daj', when, presumably, the ovum becomes a morula, and i^asses, either as such or as a blastula, into the cavity of the uterus. The second week.—At the twelfth day the ovum is embedded in the uterine wall); it is a lenticular vesicle, which measures 5-5 mm. (V of an inch) in length and 3-3 mm. of au inch) in breadth. Its upper and lower surfaces are smooth and convex, the latter being somewhat flatter than the former, and it is surrounded equatorially Fig. 48. by a broad band of villi, A. Human embryo at the end of the 12th day of development; B. At the some of which are slightly end of the 13th day of development ; C. At the end of the 14th day of branched. The wall of development. (After His.) ^j^^ vesicle and the villous AM. Amnion ; AS. Alhmtoic .stalk ; BS. Body-stalk ; CV . Chorionic villi on .jj-gcesses which project a .segment of the chorion ; E. Emlirvo ; H. Head of embryo ; I'K. Peri- ' '. ' . J cardial region : SS. Stomatoda-al depression ; YS. Yolk sac. "'OHl it COUSlst ot ecto- dermal cells, and in the embryonic area, which is clearh- marked on the upper surface, thei'e is an inner layer of granular nucleated corj)uscles. By the end of the twelfth or the beginning of the thirteenth day the length of the ovum has increasal to G mm. (j inch), and its breadth to 4'D mm. inch). 'I'he ondn-yonic AM