242 OSTEOLOGY. Grooves for sesamoid bones A the cartilaginous elements of the os calcis and astragalus, and the os calcis and navicular in foetuses of the third month. » Ossification.—Unlike the carpus, the tarsus is at birth partially ossified. At this period there is a well-marked osseous nucleus within the body and neck of the astragalus, and the os calcis is extensively ossified. In the latter the deposition of earthy matter appears as early as the sixth month of foetal life, whilst in the astragalus the ossific centre makes its appearance in the later weeks of gestation. Shortly before or after birth the cuboid begins to ossify, succeeded early in the first year by the external cuneiform, followed in order by the middle cuneiform, internal cuneiform, and navicular. The ossific centre of the latter appears at the third year or somewhat later. An epiphysis, which forms a cap over the extremity of the great tuberosity of the os calcis, appears from the seventh to to the ninth year, and fusion is completed between the ages of sixteen and twenty. The Metatarsus. The metatarsal bones, five in number, in their general configuration resemble the metacarpus. They are, however, slightly longer, their bases are proportionately larger, their shafts more slender and laterally compressed, and their heads propor- tionately smaller. They are named numerically the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, in order from within outwards. The first can be readily recognised on account of its stoutness; it is also the shortest of the series. The second is the longest of the five, and the fifth can easily be distinguished by the projecting tubercle at its base. The first metatarsal or metatarsal bone of the great toe, the shortest of the series, is remarkable for its stoutness. The vertical diameter of its base much exceeds its transverse width, here the bone is provided with a reniform facet for articulation with the internal cuneiform. As a rule there are no facets on the lateral aspects of the base. The inferior angle projects backwards and outwards, and forms a prominent tubercle which is pitted for the insertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle, whilst its internal margin is lipped by a surface for the attachment of part of the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The shaft, short, thick, and prismatic on section, tapers rapidly towards the head, the fore and under surfaces of which are articular. The former is con- vex from side to side, and from above downwards, and supports the proximal phalanx. It is confluent below with the inferior articular surface, which is divided by a median ridge into two shallow grooves of which the inner is the wider. In these grooves are lodged the two sesa- moid bones which underlie the metatarso - phalangeal joint. On either side of the head, the bone is pitted for the strong lateral ligaments of the joint. The second metatarsal, the longest of the series, has a base of wedge-shaped form, the proximal aspect of which articulates with the middle cuneiform. On its inner aspect, near its superior edge, there is a small circular facet for the internal cuneiform; below and in front of this there is sometimes a tubercle with a " pressure" facet on it, where the bone comes in contact with the base of the first metatarsal. On the outer side of the base there is one, more usually two facets, each divided into two parts, a posterior for articulation with the external cuneiform, and an anterior for the base of the third metatarsal. The shafts of this and the three succeeding bones are slender and laterally compressed. The heads are small and narrow, and display a pro- nounced side-to-side and vertical convexity. The third metatarsal bone also possesses a base of wedge-shaped form, the proximal surface of which articulates with the external cuneiform. On its inner side it is provided with one, more usually two small facets, for articulation with the base of the second metatarsal. Externally the base has a larger facet for articula- Shaft Tuberosity Tibialis anticus Fig. 189.—The First Meta- TAESAL Bone op the Right Foot (plantar aspect).