1013 STRUCTURE OF THE INTESTINES. Two solitary glaiirls Ppyer's jjatcli (4 inches from the pylorus) they have become distinct and prominent. In the rest of the duodenum, and in the upper half of the jejunum, they are highly developed, being large, broad, and closely set. In the lower half of the jejunum they become gradually smaller and fewer. Passing down into the ileum, they become still smaller and more irregular, and, as a rule, they practically cease a little l)elow the middle of the ileum. The mucous membrane covering the folds possesses villi, solitary glands, and Lieberkiihn's glands, like the mucous membrane of the general surface between the valves. ■ Ol'teii patches of valvulte connivente.s, much reduced in size, can he traced to within a sliort distance of the ileo-ciecal valve. According to Sappey, Liisclika, and otliers, tliey usually reach to within two or three feet of the end of the ileum. Tliey are said to be absent in mammals, with the exception of man and the ornithorhynchus. Solitary Glands (noduli lymphatici solitarii).—These are minute nodules of lym- phoid tissue, opaque and of a whitish colour, found projecting on the surface of the mucous membrane throughout the whole length of both the small and large intestines. Isolated lymphoid cells are found in abundance scattered through the connec- tive tissue layer of the intestinal mucous memlirane generally; in places these cells are gathered together to form little nodules, supported l)y a framework of reti- form tissue, and surrounded by a lymphatic space which communicates below with the lymphatics of the submucosa. Such a collection of lymphoid cells constitutes a solitary gland. They are usually of a rounded or oval shape (Fig. 084), the wide end resting in the submucosa, the nodule itself piercing the muscularis mucosae, and the narrow end projecting slightly above the surface of the mucous membrane. In size they vary from ^^th. to ^th of an inch (-6 to 3"0 mm.), but their average bulk is about that of a small grain of sago, to which they bear some resemblance. As already mentioned, they are present throughout the small and large intestines, being particularly abundant in the vermiform appendix and caecum. In the small intestine they are found on the valvulse conniventes, as well as upon the general surface of the mucous membrane l)etween them. Peyer's Patches, or Agminated Glands (noduli lym- phatici aggregati, tonsiUse iutestinales). — A Peyer's patch consists of a large number of lymphoid nodules grouped closely together so as to form a slightly ele- vated area, usually of an oblong form, on the surface of the mucous membrane (Fig. 686). In length they vary from half an inch (12 mm.) or less to three or four inches (100 mm.), and in width they commonly measure from a third to half an inch (8 to 12 mm.). Their number is varial)le, Init in the average condition about 30 or 40 are found. They are best marked in young subjects, where they form considerable elevations above the general surface, and may he as many as 45 in number. After middle life they atrophy, and in old age, although usually to be fouiul, they are iiulistinct, occasionally being marked l)y little more than a dark discoloration of the mucous memlirane. They are invarial)ly situated along the free surface of the intestine opposite the line of mesenteric attachment, with their long axis corresponding to that of the bowel. Consequently, in order to display them, the tul)e must be slit up along its attaclied or mesenteric border. Peyer's patches arc entirely confined to the small intestiiu", being largest and I Solitary glaml Iiitoru'ediate form Fig. 686. — Peyeh's Patch and Solitary Ulakds, from intestine of cliilil two )-eavs oM (nntnral size). Near the lower border are seen a few small patolies made np of two or three lymiiliatie nodules ; they are marked intermediate form."