THE AETICULATIONS OE JOINTS. 264 The posterior costo-sternal ligament—also a part of the capsule—has attach- ments similar to the foregoing, but the arrangement of its fibres is not so powerful. The ligamentum costo-xiphoidea passes from the front of the upper part of the xiphoid cartilage, obliquely upwards and outwards to the front of the seventh, and sometimes to the front of the sixth costal cartilage. Within the capsules of these joints interarticular ligaments (ligg. sterno-costalia interarticularia, Fig. 207) may be found. Their disposition is somewhat uncertain, for Fig. 207.—Sterno-claviculab and Costo-sternal Joints. whereas, in the case of the second pair of cartilages, they invariably divide the joint cavity into two distinct compartments—an upper and a lower—such an arrange- ment is very uncertain in the other joints, and they occasionally, especially in the cases of the sixth and seventh cartilages, entirely obliterate the joint cavity. These igaments extend horizontally between the ends of the costal cartilages and the side of the sternum. Synovial membrane is found wherever a joint cavity is developed, and therefore there may be one or two synovial membranes, according to the presence or absence of a proper interarticular Kgament. When the joint cavity is obliterated by the fibrous structure which represents the interarticular ligament, a synovial membrane is also absent. Sternal Articulations. Primarily the sternum consists of an elongated plate of hyaline cartilage, which becomes subdivided into segments by the process of ossification. The four segments of which the gladiolus is originally composed unite with each other after the manner of typical synchondroses. Similarly the ensiform cartilage and the gladiolus ultimately become united. It is not usual to find the manubrio-gladiolar joint obliterated by the ossification of the two bony segments. Even in advanced life it remains open, and the joint par- takes of the nature of an amphiarthrosis (Fig. 207), although a joint cavity is not found under any circumstances in the plate of fibro - cartilage which intervenes between the manubrium and the gladiolus. The membrana sterni, to which reference has already been made, assists in strengthening the union between the different segments of the sternum. Movements of the Ribs and Sternum.—These movements may be considered eitJier independently of, or as associated with, respiration. In the former condition the ribs move in connexion "with flexion and extension of the vertebral column, being more or less depressed and approximated in the former, and elevated or