485 THE DEEP CONNEXIONS OF THE CRANIAL NEEVES. and collaterals from the pyramidal tract of the opposite side enter the nucleus, and, ending around the cells, bring the nucleus into connexion with the motor area of the cerebral cortex. The pedicle of the superior olive ends partly within the nucleus of the abducent nerve (p. 482). Trigeminal or Fifth Nerve (nervus trigeminus).—The trigeminal nerve strikes its roots deeply into the brain and establishes a connexion with it which extends from the upper part of the mesencephalon above to the level of the second cervical nerve below. No other cranial nerve presents so extensive a connexion (Fig. 356, p. 479). It is composed of two roots—a large afterent or sensory root and a small efferent or motor root. Both roots appear close together on the surface of the pons, rather nearer its upper border than its lower border, and in the same line as the facial and auditory nerves. The sensory root of the fifth nerve is composed of fibres which arise outside the brain from the cells of the Gasserian ganglion. They end within the brain in two Superior medullary velum Fig. 360.—Section through the Pons Vaeolii of the Oeang, at the Level of the Nuclei op THE Trigeminal Nerve. nuclei of termination. One of these is situated in the pons and is termed the sensory nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, and the other is a long column of gelatinous gray matter, which is directly continuous below with the substantia gelatinosa Eolandi of the spinal cord. The sensory nucleus (Fig. 360) is an oval mass of gray matter which is placed halfway up the pons in the outer part of its tegmental portion. It lies close to the outer surface of the pons and immediately subjacent to the ventral submerged margin of the superior cerebellar peduncle. It is directly continuous with the substantia gelatinosa Eolandi, and may be regarded as being merely the enlarged upper end of that column of gray matter. The sensory root of the fifth nerve, on reaching the sensory nucleus, divides into two parts (Fig. 356, p. 479). A portion of the fibres enter that nucleus and end within it, but the great proportion of the fibres turn sharply downwards and form the spinal root (tractus spinalis : the ascending root of most text-books). This root