182 OSTEOLOGY. crosses the Lack of tlie l)ody obliquely in a direction outwards and slightly upwards, extending from the vertebral border near the lower limit of its upper fourth towards the centre of the posterior glenoid edge, from which, however, it is separated by the great scapular notch, which here corresponds to the posterior aspect of the neck. The surfaces of the spine, which are directed upwards and downwards, are concave, the upper entering into the formation of the supraspinous fossa, which lies above it, the lower forming the upper wall of the infraspinous fossa, which lies below it. The two foss;e are in communication with each other round the free external concave border of the spine, where that curves over the great scapular notch. The posterior free l)order of the spine is subcutaneous throughout its entire length. Its uppet and lower edges are strongly lipped, and serve—the superior, for the attachment of the trapezius; the inferior, for the origin of the deltoid. The inter- vening surface varies in width — broad and ('I.AVICUI.AR FACET CoKACOID PROCESS .Pectoralis SUPKRIOR ANCI.E / triangular where it be- comes confluent with the vertebral border, it displays a smooth surface, over which the tendinous fibres of the trapezius play; narrowing rapidly, it forms a surface of varying width which blends externally with a flattened process, the two forming a compressed plate of bone which arches across the scapular notch al)ove and be- hind, and then curves forwards, upwards, and outwards to overhang the glenoid fossa. The internal border of this process is continuous with the upper mar- gin of the spine, and is gently curved. The external border, more curved tlian the inner, with which it is united in front, is confluent with the inferior edge of the spine, with which it forms an abrupt bend, termed the acromial angle. The bone included between these two borders is called the acromion process. Of compressed form, it much resembles the acromial end of the clavicle, with which it articulates by means of a facet (facies articularis acromii) which is placed on its internal l)order near its anterior extremity. The superior surface of the acromion, wliicli is broad and expanded, is subcutaneous, and is directed upwards and liack- wards, and in the normal po.sitiou of the bone outwards as well. Its internal edge, where not in contact with the clavicle, has attached to it the fibres of the trapezius, whilst its external margin affords origin to the central part of the deltoid. At its anterior extremity it is connected with the coracoid process by Inferior anulf. Fii!. 126.—The Rkjht Scapula, as seen from the Front.