THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1048 -Liver distinct ridyes, in relation to which are found on each side three peritoneal fossis,. known as tlie inguinal pouches or fossae (fovea inguinales).. The external inguinal fossa (fovea inguinalis lateralis) lies outside the deep ejjigastric arter}-, and corvesjioiids to the position of the internal alidoiuinal ring. At its bottom is often found a dimple-like depression of the peritoneum, indicating the point from which the processus vaginalis ])asse(l down, in connexion with the descent of the testicle. The middle inguinal fossa (fovea inguinalis mesialis} is situated between the deep epigastiic and the obliterated hypogastric arteries ; whilst the internal inguinal fossa (fovea inguinalis interna, fovea supravesicalis) lies to the inner side of the obliterated hypogastric artery, namely, between it externally and the urachus internally. Seeing that the obliterated hypogastric artery, in passing uj)wards, crosses Hasselbach's triangle, dividing it into an outer and an inner part, it follows that the middle inguinal fossa corresponds to the outer division of the triangle, and the inner fossa to its inner division. Still another fossa of the peritoneum is seen in this region, just beneath the inner part of Poupart's ligament, corresponding to the position of the femoral or crural ring, and consetpiently known as the femoral or crural fossa (fovea fenioralis). It may be added that the vas deferens crosses the outer part of this latter fossa, and the obliterated hypogastric artery its inner part. The significance of these fosste is pointed out in connection with the apjilied anatomy of the inguinal and femoral regions. Near the middle line, above the iimlnlicus, the peritoneum is carried back from the anterior abdominal wall and diaphragm to the parietal surface of the liver in the form of a crescentic fold, the falciform ligament of the liver (ligamentum falciforme hepatis, described with the liver), which connects the liver to the abdo- minal wall. This fold lies somewhat to the right of the middle line, and extends almost as low down as the umbilicus. It consists of two layers of peri- toneum, lietween which, in the lower border of the fold, runs the round ligament of the liver— the remains of the umbilical vein of the foetus. Posterior Layer of the Great Sac.—After clothing the anterior al:)dominal wall, in the manner just descriljed, the anterior layer of the great sac is continued IjacTi on the under surface of the diaphragm, until this latter l)egins to descend behind the liver, when it is reflected from the diaphragm on to the upper aspect of the liver, and here the anterior passes into the posterior layer of the great sac. The posterior layer first clotlaes the upper aspect of the liver, then turns round its anterior border, and is continued back on the under surface as far as the attach- ment of the lesser omentum, where it quits the liver and passes down, as the anterior layer of the lesser omentum, to the lesser curvature of the stomach. The line of reflexion from diajjhragm to liver is interrujited near the mesial plane by the falciform ligament. The portion lying to the right of this fold forms the upjjer layer of the coronary ligament; that to the left of it, the ujjper layer of the left lateral ligament of the liver. The extent to which the peritoneum of the great sac passes liack on the under"surface of the Uteru; Bladder- Pouch of Douglas Fig. 707.—DlAdHAM.MATlC MESIAL bECTION OF FEMALE BODY, to show the )ieiitoiieum on vertical tracing. The great sac of the peritoneum is black and is represented as being much larger than in nature ; the small sac is verj* darkly shaded ; the peritoneum in section is shown as a white line : and a white arrow is passed through tlie foramen of Winslow from the great, into the small sac.