770 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. (2) The Vidian is :i small and inconstant branch Mhich accompanies the great deep petrosal nerve in the Vidian canal ; it anastomoses with the Vidian branch of the internal maxillary artery. In the cranium.—(1) Cavernous, small branchea to the walls of the cavernous sinus and to the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves. (2) Gasserian, minute twigs which supj^ly the Gasserian ganglion. (3) Pituitary branches pass to the pituitary body. (4) Meningeal branches ramify in the dura mater of the middle cranial fossa, anasto- mosing with the branches of the middle and small meningeal arteries. (5) Ophthalmic Artery (a. ophthalmica, Eig. 556). — This artery springs from the front aud inner side of the internal carotid as it turns upwards on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process. It passes forwards and outwards, heneath the optic nerve and through the optic foramen into the orbital cavity. In the orl)it it runs forwards for a short distance on the outer side of the optic nerve, and it is in relation externally with the lenticular ganglion and the external rectus muscle; turning upwards and inwards, it crosses between the optic nerve and MiiUlle internal frontal artery Corpu.s callosnm SfiJtnni luciiluni bral artery cerebri Fig. 557.—Dlstribution of the Cerebral Arteries on the Mesial, Tentorial, and Inferior Surfaces of the Cerebral Hemispheres. The anterior cerebral artery is coloured green, the middle cerebral artery red, and the posterior cerebral artery orange. the superior rectus to the inner wall of the orbit, where it turns forwards to terminate at the inner and front part of the orbital cavity by dividing into frontal and nasal branches. It is accompanied at first by the nasal nerve, and in the terminal X)art of its course by the infra-trochlear nerve. Branches.—Tlie branches of tlie oplitliahnic artery are niuneroiis. {a) The posterior ciliary, usually six to eight in nuinber, run forw ards at the sides of the optic nerve ; they soou divide into numerous branches which jjierce the back part of the sclerotic coat; the majority terminate in the choroid coat of the eye as the sliort ciliary arteries (aa. ciliares posteriores brev^es), but two of larger size, the hn(j ciliary arteries (aa. ciliares posteriores longae), run forwards, one on each side, almost in the horizontal j^lane of the eyeball, between the sclerotic and the choroid coats, to the base of the iris, where tliey divide. The resitlting branches anastomose together and form a circle at the outer periphery of the iris, from which secondary branches run inwards and anasto- mose together in a secon<l circle near the inner margin of the iris. (b) The central artery of the retina (a. centralis retime) arises near to, or in common witli, the ]ueceding A'essels. It pierces the inner and under side of tlie optic nerve about half-an-inch (12 mm.) behind the sclera, aud runs in its centre to tlie retina, wliere it Ijreaks up into terminal )_) ranches. ((■) Recurrent (a. meningea anterior).—A small brancli wliicli passes backwards through the splienoidal fissure into the middle fossa of the cranium, where it anastomoses with the middle and small meningeal arteries, and with the meningeal branches of the internal carotid and lachrymal arteries.