248 THE AETICULATIONS OE JOINTS. Intervening hyaline cartilage Fig. 194. — Section through the occipito-sphenoid syn- chondrosis. os.sification, and thus the plane of articulation becomes obliterated, so that direct structural continuity between the osseous segments takes place. The primary features common to all synarthroses are—(ft) continuous and direct union of the opposing surfaces; (b) no joint cavity ; (c) no movement. Suture.—This form of synarthrosis is only found in connexion with the bones of the skull. In a large number of cases the bones which articulate by suture present irregular interlocking margins between which there is the interposed fibrous membrane to which refer- ence has already been made. When these interlocking margins present well-defined projections they are said to form true sutures—sutura vera ; on the other hand, when the opposed surfaces present ill-defined projections, or even flat areas, they are described as false sutures— sutura notha. In each of these subdivisions the particular characters of the articulating margins are utilised in framing additional descriptive terms. Thus true sutures may possess interlocking margins whose projections are tooth-like (sutura dentata), e.g. in the interparietal suture ; saw-like (sutura serrata), (Fig. 195) e.g. in the interfrontal suture; ridge-like, or comparable to the parallel ridges on the welt of a boot (sutura limbosa). Similarly false sutures may articulate by margins which are scale- like (sutura squamosa), e.g. in the squamoso-parietal suture; or by rough opposed surfaces (sutura harmonia), e.g. in the suture between the palate plates of the superior maxillary bones. There is one variety of synarthrosis which, in the adult, can scarcely be called a suture, although the differences are of minor importance, viz. schindylesis, which is an articulation between the edge of a plate- like l)one, such as the rostrum of the 'sphenoid, and the cleft in another, such as the vomer. Synchondrosis,—Illustrations of this group can only be found in the young growing individual, because as age advances, and growth ceases, the process of ossification affects the hyaline cartilage which con- stitutes the uniting medium, and the plane of articulation disappears. Under this heading we may include the planes of junction between all epiphyses and the shafts or diaphyses to which they severally belong. The occipito-sphenoid (Fig. 194), and the petro-jugular articulations in the base of the skull provide other well-marked examples. Fio. 195.—SUTUKA Sbrrata. MOVABLE JOINTS. The leading features of this group are capability of movement and permanence. In very few instances do such joints ever become obhterated under normal con- ditions. Determining their permanence, and regulating the amount of possible movement, there is always more or less of interruption in the continuity of the structures which bind the osseous elements together. That is, there is always some evidence of a joint cavity, although as a matter of course such interruption can never be so extensive as to entirely disassociate the articulating elements. There- fore in all movable joints a new class of structures is found, viz. the ligaments, by means of which continuity is maintained even when all the other uniting media have given place to a joint cavity. The further subdivision of this group is founded upon the amount of movement permissible and the extent to which the joint cavity takes the place of the original continuous uniting medium. Thus we obtain the partly movable or ampMarthroses, and the freely movable or diarthroses. An amphiarthrosis (Fig. 198) presents the following characteristics: — (a) partial movement; (b) union by ligaments and by an interposed plate or disc of fibro-cartilage, in the interior of which there is, (c) an incomplete or partial joint cavity which may be lined by a rudimentary synovial membrane who.se function it is to secrete a lubricating fluid, the synovia or joint-oil; (d) a plate of hyaline