THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 462 as they are traced to tlie surface and subdivide tlie substance of the medulla, as seen in transverse section, into the three areas of Flechsig, viz. an anterior, a lateral, and a jiosterior. The anterior area, which is bounded internally by the median raphe and externally by the hypoglossal roots, 2)resents within its limits: (a) the formatio alba; (b) the pyramid ; (c) the fillet; (d) the posterior longitudinal fasciculus ; (e) the mesial accessory olivary nucleus ; (/) the arcuate nucleus. Tlie lateral area lies between the rof)t fibres of the hypoglossal and those of the vagus. It contains : (a) the inferior olivary nucleus ; (ft) the dorsal accessory olivary nucleus ; (c) the nucleus lateralis; (d) the nucleus ambiguus, or the motor nucleus of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves ; («) the formatio reticularis grisea. The posterior area is situated behind the vagus roots, and within its limits are seen : (1) the restiforni l_)()dy ; (2) the ujjj^er part of the cuneate nucleus ; (3) to the inner side of this a crowd of transversely-cut bundles of fibres, loosely arranged and forming the descending root of tlie vestiljular part of the auditory nerve ; (4) close to these, but placed more deeply, a round, com- pact, and very conspicuous bundle of transversely-cut fibres, viz. the fasciculus solitarius, or descending root of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves ; (5) the substantia gelatinosa Rolandi, much reduced, with the large spinal root of the trigeminal nerve close to its outer side. INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF THE PONS VAROLII. When transverse sections are made through the pons, it is seen to be composed of a ventral part and a dorsal or tegmental part. The ventral part is much the larger of the two, and, broadly speaking, it corresponds to the pyramidal portions of the medulla and the pedal portions of the two crura cerebri, which lie above it and appear to issue from it. The dorsal tegmental part may be regarded as the con- tinuation upwards of the formatio reticularis grisea and the formatio reticularis alba. As these parts are traced upwards into the pons they become much modified, and new constituents are added. Ventral Part of the Pons (pars basilaris pontis).—This constitutes the chief bulk of the pons. It is composed of: (1) transverse fibres arranged in coarse bundles; (2) longitudinal fibres, gathered together in massive bundles; and (3) a large amount of gray matter, termed the nucleus pontis, which fills up the inter- stices between the intersecting bundles of fibres. The longitudinal fibres, to a large extent, consist of the same fibres which, lower down, are gathered together in the two solid pyramidal tracts of the medulla. When the pyramids are traced upwards they are seen to enter the pons in the form of two compact bundles. Soon, however, they become broken up into smaller bundles by the transverse fibres of the pons, and are spread out over a wider area. At the upper border of the pons they again come together and form two solid strands, each of which is carried into the central part of the correspond- ing pedal portion of the crus cerebri. The transverse fibres at the lower border of the pons are placed on the super- ficial or ventral aspect of the pyramidal bundles. As we proceed upwards they increase in number, and many are seen breaking through the pyramids and even passing across upon the dorsal aspect of the latter. Laterally these transverse fibres are collected together into one compact mass, which enters the white central core of the cerebellum and constitutes the middle cerebellar peduncle. At the mesial plane the transverse fibres of the two sides of the ventral portion of the pons intercross and form a coarse decussation. Tlie gray matter (the nucleus pontis) forms a considerable part of the bulk of the ventral portion of the pons. It is packed into the intervals between the inter- secting transverse and longitudinal bundles. There is a close analogy between the pyramidal portions of the medulla and the ventral part of the pons. In the medulla fine arcuate fibres on their way to the surface pass tlirough the pyramids. Other superficial arcuate fibres sweep over the surface of the pyramids. These present a strong resemblance to the transverse fibres of the pons. They likewise reach the cerebellum, although by a different route, viz. the inferior cerebellar peduncle. The nucleus pontis is also represented in the pyramidal part of the medulla by the arcuate nuclei, which are covered over by the superficial arcuate fibres and even tend to penetrate, to a slight extent, into the pyi'amidal tracts. These arcuate nuclei, as already pointed out, ai'e continuous with the nucleus pontis. Connexions of the Longitudinal and Transverse Fibres.—Our knowledge of the connexions of the longitudinal and transverse fibres of the ventral part of the pons is