58 GENERAL EMBRYOLOGY. Obviously, however, a system of vessels tilled with Hukl would be of little use in the general economy unless there were mme means by whicli the fluid could be kept in constant movement. In the first instance this is accomplislied l)y rhythmical contractions of the vessel walls, but in a short time poi'tions of the two primitive stem-vessels which appear in the embryo are modified into a single propulsive organ, the heart, which forces the fluid, or blood, in a definite direction both through the body of the embryo, along the body-stalk or umbilical cord, accord- ing to the age of the embryo, and tlnough the vessels in the placental villi. We have now to consider how the blood-vessels and blood are formed. Where, or how, tlie flrst l)lood-vessels appear in tlie human subject is not defluitely known, but in other mammals they are first seen outside the body of the eml)ryo in the wall of the yolk-sac. The outer layer of tlie wall of the yolk- sac consists of splanchnic mesoderm, and in that part of this layer which lies nearest the primitive ali- mentary canal a large number of the cells pro- liferate rapidly and, fusing together, form multi- nucleated masses of pro- toplasm,the "blood islands" of Pander. Soon after their appear- ance the blood islands anastomose together by means of nucleated pro- cesses which they throw out on all sides, and thus a niicleated protoplasmic reticulum is formed in the substance of tlie splanchnic mesoderm. The region in which tliis occurs is known as the vascular area. The solid nucleated reticulum is soon converted into a system of anastomosing canals, the primitive blood- vessels, Ijy the appearance within it of numerous ^•acuoles which soon fuse togetlier, wliilst at the same time the nucleated protoplasm is transformed into cells. The cells which lie nearest the interior separate from each other and form the primitive blood-cor])uscles, whilst those situated externally remain connected by their margins and form the endothelial walls of the embryonic vessels. The fluid which fills these first-formed vessels in the vascular area is probably derived either from the ccelom or from the yolk-sac. The primitive blood-corpuscles are nucleated cells of a reddish colour; white or colourless blood-corpuscles appear later and those first formed are developed in the thymus gland. Nucleated red corjmscles ])ersist and increase in number till the end of the second month of intrauterine life; they are then gradually replaced l)y non-nucleated red corpuscles. The majority of the nucleated red corpuscles disa})pear long before birth, but a few can usuallv be found in the blood of the new-born child. There is BV2 Fk;. 44. Dbveloi'mext of Blood-Vessels in the Vascular Area ok THE Rat. I. Eiitoderiii and splanchnic mesoderm. II. Proliferation of cells of mesoderm and formation of "blood islands." of islan<ls to form blood-vessels and III. Commencing differentiation blood-corpuscles. IV. Completed vessels. BC Blood-corpnscles. BI Blood-islands. BV] Blood-islands being trans- formed into blood-vessids. BV., Blood-vessels. EN Entoderm. M Mesoderm.