THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 656 mater of tlie posterior fossa of the base of the skull. It proliably derivtis its fi)»rcs from the communication with the first and second cervical nerA'es. The descending hypoglossal nerve (n. descendens) is the chief branch given off in the neck. It arises from the lij'poglossal nerve as it crosses the internal carotid artery, and descends in the anterior triangle in front of tlie carotid sheath. It is joined al>out the middle of the neck l»y the descending cervical nerve (from the second and third cervical nerves). By their union the hypoglossal loop (ansa hypo- glossi) is formed, from which branches are distributed to the majority of the infra- hyoid muscles—l)otli l)ellies of the omo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid, and the sterno-thy- roid. The descending hypoglossal nerve derives its fibres from the communicatif)n to the hypoglossal nerve from the loop between the first and second cervical nerves ; so that the ansa hypoglossi is made up of fibres of the first three cervical nerves. The nerve to the thyro-hyoid muscle is a small branch which arises from the hypoglossal nerve liefore it passes beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle. It descends behind the great cornu of the hyoid bone to reach the muscle. When traced backwards, this nerve is found associated with the loop ])etween the first and second cervical nerves. The lingual branches of the hypoglossal nerve are distril»uted to the hyo-glossus, genio-hyoid, and genio-hyo-giossus, and to all the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. The nerve to the genio-hyoid is said to be derived from the loop between the first and second cervical nerves. It is not known if these two nerves are im- plicated in the innervation of the proper muscles of the tongue, l)ut it appears certain that the muscles named—the genio-hyoid, thyro-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, omo- hyoid, and sterno-thyroid—are not supplied by the hypoglossal, but only l)y cervical nerves, the genio-hyoid liy the first two, the other muscles l)y the first three cer- vical nerves. THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. Omitting the first and second nerves, there is an oltvious likeness in the de- velopment of the cranial nerves to the formation of the dorsal, afferent or sensory, and the ventral, efferent or motor, roots of the spinal nerves. The afferent roots arise from collections of cells which bud off from the alar lamina of the brain, homo- logous with the dorso-lateral part of the spinal cord. These cells give rise to central and peripheral processes, like the similar processes from the dorsal ganglia of the spinal nerves, producing on the one hand the root fil)res connected with the brain, and on the other hand the fibres of the nerve proceeding to the periphery. The efferent roots, like the ventral roots of the spinal nerves, arise as the peripheral processes of neuroblasts located in the basal lamina of the primitive brain, which is homologous with the ventro-lateral portion of the spinal cord. The efferent nerves may be separated into two series, according as they arise from the mesial or lateral parts of the basal lamina. The third, fourth, sixth, and twelfth nerves arise from the mesial part of the lamina; the efferent fibres of the fifth, seventh, ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves arise from the lateral part. The olfactory nerve is associated in its development with tlie forrnatioii of the nasal pit and the olfactory bulb. The olfactory nerves are developed from the epithelium of the nasal pit. These cells furnish neui'oblasts—cells with peripheral and central processes, which form a collec- tion of cells—the olfactory ganglion. From this ganglion the processes of the neuroblasts extend peripherally and centrally. The perijjheral processes produce the so-called olfac- tory nerves, which become connected with the olfactory epithelium. The central pro- cesses extend from the olfactory ganglion to the brain, applying themselves to the olfac- tory bulb, to which they become connected in the second month. The olfactory ganglion becomes incorporated at the same time with the olfactory bulb. The optic nerve is developed wholly from the brain. Its formation begins witli the outgrowth of the optic vesicle, a paired hollow outgrowth from the ventral surface of the thalamencephalon. The epiblastic invagination of the lens, growing inwards from the surface, causes the collapse of the vesicle and its conversion into the optic cup, the narrow tube connecting the vesicle to the brain becoming the optic stalk. This stalk