THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 966 On making a section of a tooth (Fig. 649), it will be seen that the interior of the body is occupied by a cavity of some size, generally called the pulp cavity (cavum dentis), owing to the fact that it is filled in the natural state l)y the soft and sensitive tissue known as the pulp. This pulp cavity gradually narrows l)elow, and is prolonged into each root of the tooth as a slender tapering passage, the root canal (canalis radicis), which opens at the apical foramen already referred to. Through these root-canals, which also contain some pulp, the vessels and nerves, which enter at the apex, pass to the interior of the tooth. Short diverticida of the pulp cavity are prolonged into the ])ases of the cusps in the molar and premolar teeth, and in the incisors also there are similar slight pro- longations of the cavity towards the angles of the crown. The roots of the teeth are embedded in the sockets or alveoli of the jaws, to which they are accurately adapted, and firmly united (Fig. 649) l)y a highly vascular layer of connective tissue—the alveolar periosteum (alveolo-dental perios- teum or root-membrane). This is attached to the wall of the alveolus on the one hand and to the root of the tooth on the other, wliilst above it is continuous with tlie connective tissues of the gum. So accurately are the root and the alveolus adapted to each other over their whole extent, and so firmly does the periosteum bind them together, that, under normal conditions, the tooth is quite firmly fixed in the bone, and no movement of the root within the alveolus can take place; the vessels and nerves entering at the apex are thus secured against pressure or strain. When, however, the alveolar periosteum is inflamed it becomes swollen and exquisitely sensi- tive ; the tooth, as a result of the swelling, is pushed partly out of its socket, its crown projects above those of its neighbours, and strikes against the opposing tooth when the mouth is closed, giving rise to much pain and discomfort. The neck, although a useful term, can scarcely be recognised as a distinct constriction in the permanent teeth; it corresponds to the line along which the gum and ah-eolar periosteum meet, or along which the gum is united to the tooth ; but, as already pointed out, the gum does not stop at the neck, but forms a free fold which surrounds the Ijase of the crown collar-wise for a short distance. The outline of the margin of the gum opposite the labial and lingual surfaces of the crown is usually concave, but opposite the proximal and distal sides of the tooth it is convex, and reaches much nearer to the edge of the crown than on the other surfaces. In the incisors and canines the pulp cavity, which is about ^ to | the diameter of the tooth, ])asses very gradually into the root canal (Fig. 649), so that it is dilficiilt to say where one ends and the other begins. The reverse is the case in the molars, whilst the premolars are somewhat variable in this resjject. Tartar is a hard calcareous deposit from the saliva (salivary calculus), often found on the teeth near their necks. It is composed of lime salts, and its deposit is largely determined by the presence oi' organisms (leptothrix, etc.) in the mouth. THE PERMANENT TEETH. The permanent teeth (Figs. 650 and 655) are thirty-two in numl)er, sixteen above and sixteen below, or eight in each half of either jaw; and, although we can group them under four heads—incisors, cauines, premolars, and molars—the individual teeth differ so much in their characters that each tooth will require a separate description. Descriptive Terms.— Before describing the permanent teetli, it will be well to explain certain terms used to denote the surfaces of the teeth, a matter of some import- ance, seeing that the terms inner and outer, anterior and posterior, cannot, owing to the curvature of the dental arches, be properly applied to all the teeth in the same sense. For this reason the terms given below have been adopted as being free from misconception. The part of a tootli which comes in contact witli the teeth of the opposite jaw is known as the grinding or masticating surface (facies masticatoria. Fig. 652). The surface in contact with or looking towards its predecessor in the row is known as the proximal surface ( facies medialis in incisors and canines, fades anterior in premolars and molars); the opposite surface, namely, that which looks towards its successor in' the row, is known as the distal surface {fades lateralis in incisors and canines, fades -posterior in molars and ]n-emolars). The surface which looks towards the tongue is the lingual surface (facies Ungualis), and that looking in the opposite direction, i.e. towai'ds the lips and cheek, the labial surface (facies labialis). The portion of a tooth which touches its neighbour in the same row is known as the contact surface (facies contactus).