846 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. Bracliialis anticu iiiuscl Biceps muse Ceplialic vein Radial recurrent artery Musculo- cutaneous nerve The median vein (v. mediana cubiti) commences, as a rule, on the dorsal aspect of the base of the thumb by the union of a number of efferents from the dorsal plexus; it turns round the radial border of the forearm, receives numerous tributaries from the radial and median portions of the palm, and ascends to the middle of the bend of the elbow, where it is joined by the deep median vein, a large anastomosing channel which connects it with the deep veins, and immediately afterwards terminates by dividing into median cephalic and median basilic l)ranches. The median cephalic (v. mediana cephalica), or outer l)ranch of the median vein, runs upwards and outwards in the groove between the biceps and the supinator longus muscles. It crosses the musculo-cutaneous nerve superficially, and terminates, a . short distance alx)ve the external condyle, by uniting with the radial vein to form thd cephalic vein. The median basilic vein (v. mediana l)asilica) is the inner branch of the median vein. Eunning more transversely than the median cephalic vein, it passes upwards and inwards along the groove between the biceps and the pronator radii teres. It is crossed superficially by the anterior terminal branch of the internal cutaneous nerve; it lies upon the bicipital fascia, which separates it from the brachial artery, and it terminates by uniting with the anterior and posterior ulnar veins to form the basihc vein. The radial vein (v. radialis) commences in the dorsal venous plexus of the hand, and, after receiving some of the dorsal digital veins of the thumb, runs up the radial border of the forearm in relation witli the anterior division of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. It receives tributaries from the subcutaneous tissue through which it passes, and terminates at the outer side of tlie bend of the elbow by uniting with the median cephalic- branch of the median vein to form the cephalic vein. It contains several valves. The anterior and posterior ulnar veins (vv. ulnares) vary consideraljly in size, but as a rule the posterior is the larger. Both are provided with valves. The anterior ulnar vein commences at the base of the little finger, by the union of tributaries from the ulnar part of the dorsal venous plexus and from the ulnar side of the palm; it ascends along the front of the ulnar side of the forearm, and it terminates in the basilic branch of the median vein. The posterior ulnar vein commences in the dorsal venous plexus; it receives the ulnar dorsal digital vein of the little finger, and ascends along the dorsal side of the ulnar aspect of the forearm. It terminates by joining the basilic branch of the median vein to form the basilic vein. Median cephalic vein Supinator longus muscle Radial artery_ Median veil Radial vein Basilic vein Internal cutaneous nerve PosterioT- ulnar vein Median nerve Biachialis anticus muscle Brachial artery Median basilic vein Bicipital fascia Anterior ulnar vein Ulnar artery Deep median vein Pronator radii teres muscle Fig. 586.—Superficial Veins at the Bend of the Elbow.