922 THE EESPIKATORY SYSTEM. and to a large extent the increase in the hitter direction is produced by the strong develop- ment of the laryngeal angle or pomum Adami in the male. The great antero-posterior diameter of the male larynx necessarily implies a greater length of the vocal cords and a lower or deeper tone of the voice than in the female. In the newly-born child the larynx, in comparison with the rest of the body, is some- what large (C. L. Merker), and it continues to grow slowly and uniformly up to the sixth year of childhood. At this period there is a cessation of growth, which persists until puberty is reached, and then a stage of active growth supervenes. Up to this time the larynx in both sexes is similar in its characters, and although the growth which now occurs affects both the male and the female larynx, it is much more rapid and nuich more accentuated in the male than in the female. As a result of this the voice of the male breaks and assumes its deep tone, It is interesting to note that the growth activity of the larynx at puberty is intimately connected with the development of the sexual organs. In an individual who has been castrated when young the larynx attains a size which exceeds that of the female only to a very small degree, and the high pitch of the voice is retained. Appearance presented by the Interior of the Larynx when examined by the Laryngo- scope.—Wliuii tlie cavity of the larynx is illuminated and examined by the laryngoscopic mirror the ])arts wliich surround the superior aperture or the larynx, as well as tlie interior of the organ, come into view. ^ ^ ^° Not only this, but when the vocal cords are widely separated it is pos- — 11 sible to inspect til interior of the trachea as low down as its bifur- cation. In such an exa- mination the arched upper border of the epi- glottis constitutes a conspicuous object, whilst, behind this, the bulging on the anterior wall of-the vestibule, formed by the cushion of the epiglottis, may constitute a feature of the i:)icture. Tlie middle glosso-epiglottidean ligament, with the vallecular fossa on either side of it, can also be inspected in the interval lietween the epiglottis and the base of .the tongue. Tlie shariJ ary- epiglottidean folds are clearly visible, and in the back portion of each of these can be seen the two prominent tubercles which are formed by the enclosed cuneiform cartilage and the cartilage of Santorini. Behind these tubercles is the ])osterior wall of the pharynx, whilst to their outer side the deej) sinus pyriformis may be seen. In the interior of the larynx the false and the trut- vocal cords are easily recognised, and the interval between the false and the true cord, or, in other words, the entrance into the laryngeal sinus, appears as a dark line on tlie side wall of the larynx. The false vocal cords are red and flesliy-looking; the true vocal cords during phouatioii are tightly stretched and pearly white—the white colour being usually more a])])arent in the female than in the male. The outline and yellowish tinge of the j)rocessus vocalis at Its attach-, ment to the true vocal cord, as well as, to a slight extent, the outline of the fore jjart of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, can in a successful laryngoscopic examination be made out. The true vocal cords during ordinaiy insi)iration are seldom at rest, and with the laryngoscoi)e their move- ments may be studied. It should be borne in mind that the picture afforded by the laryngoscoju: does not give a true idea of the level at which the different parts lie. The cavity appears gieatly shortened, and its de})tli diminished. Fic. 624.—Cavitv of the Larynx, its seen by means of the laryngoscope. A. Tlie rima glottidis closed. B. The riina glottidls widely open 1. Rings of the trachea. .i. Laryngeal sinus. •2. Proces.sus vocalis of the (i. Vallecula. arytenoid cartila.t;e. "7. True vocal cord. 3. Aryteno-epiglottidean fold. S. Cushion {)f epiglottis. 4. .Sinus pyriformis. 9. Middle glosso-eiiiglottideau UM 10. Base of tongue. 11. Epiglottis. 12. False vocal cord. 13. Cuneiform tubercle. 14. Tubercle of Santorini THE TRACHEA. The trachea or windpipe is a wide tube which is kept permanently patent by a series of cartilaginous rings embedded in its wall. These rings are deficient posteriorly, and consequently the tube is not completely cylindrical: its hinder wall is Hatteued. The trachea begins above at the lower border of the cricoid