220 OSTEOLOGY the neck from the shaft anteriorly (see ante). The whole constitutes what is known as the spiral line, and extends from the fore and upper part of the trochanter minor ahove to the linea aspera below. Intermediate in position between the spiral line in front and internally, and the gluteal ridge externally, there is a third line, the pectineal line (linea pectinea), which passes down from the trochanter minor and fades away interiorly into the surface between the two lips of the linea aspera. Into this the pectineus muscle is inserted. About the junction of the middle with the lower third of the shaft the two lips of the linea aspera separate from one another, each passing in the direction of the condyle of the corresponding side. The lines so formed are called the inner and outer epicondylic lines respectively, and enclose between them a smooth triangular area corresponding to the back of the lower third of the shaft; this, called the popliteal surface (planiim popliteum), forms the iloor of the upper part of the popliteal space. The continuity of the upper part of tlie internal epicondylic line is but faintly marked, being interrupted by a wide and faint groove along which the popliteal artery passes to enter the space of that name. Below, where the line ends on the upper and inner surface of the internal condyle, there is a little spur of bone called the adductor tubercle, to which the tendon of the adductor magnus is attached, and beliind wliich the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle takes origin. The linea aspera affords e.xteiisive linear attacliiiieuts to many of tlie muscles of the thigli. The vastus iuternus arises from tlie spiral line above and the inner lip of the linea asjjera beknv. The adductor longus is inserted into tlie inner lip about the middle third of the lengtli of the shaft The adductor inagnus is inserted into the intermediate i)art of the line, extending as high as the level of the trochanter minor, where it lies internal to the insertion of tlie gluteus maxiinus. Below, its insertion passes on tlie internal epicondylic ridge, reaching as low as tlie adductor tubercle. The adductor brevis muscle is inserted into the linea aspera above, between the pec- tineus and adductor longus muscles internally and the adductor magnus externally. Below the insertion of the gluteus maxiinus the short head of the bicejjs arises from the outer lip as well as from the external epicondylic line ; in front these also serve for the origin of the vastus externus muscle. Tile canals for the nutrient arteries of the shaft, which have an U2)ward direction, are usually two in numl)er, and are jjlaced on or near the linea asj^era—the uiij)er one about the level of the junction of the middle and upj)er tliird of the bone, the lower some three or four inches belaw— usually on the inner side of the shaft, immediately in front of the inner lip of the linea aspera. The front and lateral aspects of the shaft are covered by, and furnish surfaces for, the origins of the vasti and crureus muscles. The lower extremity of the femur comprises the two condyles. These are two recurved processes of bone, each provided with an articular surface, and separated behind hj a deep intercondylic notch. United in front, where their combined articular surfaces form an area on which the patella rests, the two condyles differ from each other in the following respects : If the shaft of the bone he held vertically, the internal condyle is seen to reach a lower level than the external; but, as the femur lies obliquely in the thigh, the condyles are so placed that their inferior sur- faces lie in the same horizontal plane. Viewed from below, the internal condyle is seen to be the narrower and shorter of the two. The external condyle is broader, and advances further forward and higher up on the anterior surface of the shaft. The intercondylic notch (fossa intercondyloidea) reaches forwards as far as a trans- verse line drawn through the centre of the external condyle. Its sides are formed by the inner and outer surfaces of the outer and inner condyles respectively, the latter being more deeply excavated, and displaying an oval surface near its lower and anterior part for the attachment of the posterior crucial ligament of the knee- joint. Placed higli up, on the posterior part of the inner surface of the external condyle, there is a corresponding surface for the attachment of the anterior crucial ligament. The floor of the notch, which is pierced by numerous vascular canals, slopes upwards and backwards towards the popliteal surface on the back of the shaft, from which it is separated by a slight ridge (linea intercondyloidea) to which the posterior part of the capsule of the knee-joint is attached. The cutaneous aspect of each condyle (i.e. the outer surface of the external condyle and the inner surface of the internal condyle) presents an elevated rough surface, called the tuberosity (epicondylus), that of the internal (epicondylus medialis) being the more pronounced and outstanding from the line of the sliaft; capped above by the adductor tubercle, it affords attachment near its most pro-