THE COLON. 1035 and somewhat inwards, lying in front of the iliacus muscle. A Httle way alcove Poupart's Hgament it turns inwards over the psoas, and ends at the inner Ijorder of this muscle by dipping into the pelvis and liecoming the pelvic colon (Fig. 699). It usually measures about 5 or 6 inches (12-5 to 15 cm.) in length, but it varies considerably in this respect. Relations.—Behind, it lies upon, and, as a rule, is connected by areolar tissue to, the front of the iho-psoas muscle. In f ront, it is usually covered by coils of small intestine, which hide it from view; Init when distended, or when it occupies a lower position than usual, it comes into direct contact with the anterior abdominal wall. As a rule (90 per cent of bodies—Jonnesco), it is covered by peri- toneum only on its an- terior and two lateral surfaces. Occasionally (10 per cent of cases) it is completely covered, has a short mesentery (1 inch, 2 to 3 cm.),and is slightly movable. Cut edge of peritoneum Situation of iutersigmoid— fossa Pelvic colon turning down Pelvic mesocolon Beginning of rectum' In its course it passes down over tlie iliac fossa near its middle, generally forming a curve with its concavity directed in- wards and ujowards, and having reached a point '1| or 2 inches (4 to 5 cm.) above Poupart's ligament, it turns inwards across the psoas towards the pehdc cavity. Occasionally the iliac colon occupies a lower position than usual, and runs along the deep sur- face of Poupart's ligament, immediately Ijehind the anterior abdominal wall. Pelvic colon Bladder Fig. 700.—The Iliac and Pelvic Colons, from a formalin-hardened male body, aged 30. Tlie pelvic colon was luiu.sually long ; its course is shown, as well as that of the beginning of the rectum, by dotted lines. It first ran across the upper surface of bladder to the right pelvic wall, then recrossed the pelvis in a line posterior to its first crossing ; finally it returned towards the middle line, and passed into the rectum. As a rule, after crossing to the right side of the pelvis, the pelvic colon turns backwards and inwards to reach the nuddle line, where it passes into the rectum. Pelvic Colon (colon pelvinum).— This corresponds to the portion of the " sigmoid flexure " which lies in the pelvis, together with the so-called " first part of the rectum." The pelvic colon is a large coil of intestine, which begins at the inner border of the left psoas muscle, where it is continuous with the iliac colon, and ends at the level of the third sacral vertebra by passing into the rectum proper. Between these two points it has a well-developed mesentery, and forms a large and variously-shaped coil, which usually Ues in the cavity of the pelvis (93 per cent). Whilst the loop of the pelvic colon is very irregular in form, the following may be given as perhaps its most common arrangement. Beginning at the inner margin of the left psoas, it first plunges over the brim into the' pelvis, and crosses this cavity from left to right; it next bends backwards and then returns along the . posterior wall of the pelvis towards the middle line, where it turns down and passes into the rectum (Figs. 699 and 700). Relations.—In its passage into the pelvis it crosses the external iliac vessels; in running from left to right across the cavity, it rests on the Idadder or uterus, according to the sex ; whilst above it lie the coils of the small intestine. It is completely covered by peritoneum, and is furnished with an extensive mesentery—the pelvic mesocolon—which permits of considerable movement. Sometimes, wlien longer than usual (Fig. 700), the pelvic colon, in returning from the right side of the pelvis, crosses the middle line, going even as far as the left wall, and then tui'us