THE BACK OF THE THIGH. 1211 indicated by a well-marked furrow, extending from the lower edge of the insertion of the gluteus maximus to the outer aspect of the knee; behind this furrow is the biceps, and in front of it is the large vastus externus, covered by the strong ilio- tibial portion of the fascia lata. The shaft of the femur may l)e cut down upon along the whole length of this furrow with least injury to the soft parts ; the trigone of the femur and deep-seated popliteal abscesses are most conveniently reached through the lower part of the same incision. The course of the great sciatic nerve corresponds to the upper half of a line extending from a point midway between the tuberosity of the ischium and the great trochanter to the centre of the popliteal space. The nerve enters the thigh under cover of the outer border of the biceps, whereas the small sciatic, which takes the same line, descends superficial to the biceps, between it and the fascia lata. In the operation of stretching the great sciatic the nerve is cut down upon immediately ])elow the lower border of the feeniinienibianosus Seiiiitpmlinosu.s Fig. 816.—Section thuouuh the TmiiH immedi.\tely abon-e the P.xtella. gluteus maximus. The surgeon, standing on the side of the patient opposite to the leg to be operated iipon (Chiene), makes an incision in the line of the nerve through the integuments and fascia lata, and, sweeping the index - finger round the outer 1)order of the l)iceps, hooks iip the nerve as it lies between that muscle and the adductor magnus. The external popliteal nerve may he rolled under the finger as it descends immediately l>ehind the tendon of the l)iceps and the head of the fibula ; so close is the nerve to the tendon that the latter should be divided, in cases where this is necessary, ])y the open method, rather than subcutaneously. Abscesses may reach the flexor coinpartiuent of the thigh from various sources, viz. : (1) i'rom the posterior aspect of the lii])-joint; (2) from the 2>elvis through tlie great sacro-sciatic foramen ; (3) from one or other of the bursre under the gluteus maximus ; (4) from the front of the liip-joint by j)assing backwards under tlie tensor fascite femoris ; or Ijy winding Ijackwards Ijeneath the neck of the femur, and througli the interval between the quadratus femoris and the adductor magnus ; (5) from the iliac fossa under Poupart's ligament into Scarpa'*! triangle, and thence to the back of the thigli by one or other of the routes already mentioned ; (6) the jms may spread ujjwards frou) the trigone of the femur, tlie knee, a ]wp]iteal gland, or from a bursa.