GENEEAL EMBRYOLOGY. 40 aperture, the boundaries of which have already been described, and posteriorly it is in direct continuity with the pharynx. The division of the common nasal chamber into two parts commences before its separation from the mouth is completed, and it is brought about by the development of a septum which is continixous anteriorly with tlie fused nasal laminte, and which grows downwards and backwards from the mesial part of the under aspect of the fronto-nasal process. This septum fuses below with the conjoined margins of the palatal ledges of the maxillary processes, and a vertical plate of cartilage soon de\ elops in its interior, which is continuous above with the cartilaginous base of the cranium (basi-cranial axis). A portion of this septal cartilage remains in the adult as the septal cartilage of the nose, and the remainder is more or less completely replaced by the vertical plate of the ethmoid bone and by the vomer. The lateral wall of each nasal chamber is formed, in the lower part of its extent, by the maxillary process of the mandilnilar arch, in which the superior maxillary, malar, and palate bones, and possibly the inter- nal pterygoid plate, are developed, and in the upper part by the outer boundary of the original nasal pit, which now forms only the upper part of the nasal cavity. In this upper section of the outer wall an outgrowth of the basi- cranial axis projects downwards, and is developed into the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone; probably it also takes part in the formation of the inferior turbinal bone. The fusion of the three segments of the palate commences anteriorly at the eighth week by the union of the maxil- lary and globular processes; it passes backwards and is completed by the fusion of the posterior parts of the palatal ledges of the maxillary processes, about the tenth week. To the non- completion of this fusion the various cases of hare-lip and cleft palate are due. The Organ of Jacobson.—The organs of Jacobson are rudimentary structures in man. They lie in the lower and anterior part of the nasal septum, one upon each side. They are developed as small diverti- cula which grow backwards and upwards in the substance of the septum, and their points of commencement are situated immediately above the interma.xillary segment of the palate. Each diverticulum is partially surrounded, on its inner side, by a cartilaginous capsule, it ends blindly behind, and it opens anteriorly close to tlie floor of the nose in the region of Stenson's foramen— a small aperture left between the premaxillary and maxillary sections of the bony palate. The Pituitary Body.—The pituitary body is formed partly from the tioor of the first primary cerebral vesicle, and partly from the roof of the stomatoda;al space. The stomatodteal portion appears as a small pouch, Kathke's poncli, which grows dorsally into the base of the head immediately in front of the dorsal end of the bucco-pharyngeal membrane and the anterior end of the notochord and behind the fore-brain. It is lined by ectoderm, and soon becomes a conical vesicle which lies beneath the base of the fore-brain. Its orifice of communication with the stomatodteal space is gradually constricted until the lumen disappears, and then for a time tlie vesicle is connected with the surface by a solid conl of ectodermal TH Fig. 32.—Vertical Section through Head op Kat Embryo. Showing the formation of the two parts of the pituitary body (diagrammatic). (Ectoderm is represented iu black, entoderm in blue, and mesoderm in red.) At. Atlas. P. Pineal body. Ax. Axis. PR. Cerebral hemisphere. B. Cartilaginous basi- Pt^ Cerebral part of pituit- cranial axis. ary body. H. Heart. Pfl Buccal part of pituitary HB. Hind-brain. body. MB. Mid-brain. SG. Spinal ganglion. N. Part of nasal cavity. T. Tongue. Th. Thalamencephalon.