1182 SUEKACE AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. Tlic course of the carotid vessels is iiidicak'd upon Uic suri'acL! by a line oxkuuling from the upper end of the steriio-clavicular articulation to a point luidway between the angle of the jaw and tlie tip of the mastoid process; a point upon this line, at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, overlies the bifurcation of the common carotid. The anterior belly of the omo-hyoid crosses the common carotid at the le^'el of the cricoid cartilage. The pidsations of the carotid vessels may be felt in the hollow between the larynx and the anterior border of the sterno- mastoid. In the carotid triangle the external carotid lies internal and anterior to the internal carotid. The seat of election for ligation of the external carotid is between its superior -thyroid and lingual branches, a finger's breadth below the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone; the difficulty in the operation is due to the plexus of veins (formed by the common facial, lingual, and superior thyroid veins) which overlies the artery. The lingual and facial arteries frequently arise from a common trunk which must not be mistaken for the external carotid. The superior thyroid artery arises opposite the upper cornu of the thyroid cartilage, which may be distinctly felt 1 in. Ijelow the tip of the great cornu of tlie hyoid bone. The vessel and its companion vein are common sources of luemorrhage in cut-throat. The guide to the lingual artery, in the carotid triangle, is tlie tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, al)ove which it forms an arch, crossed hy the liypoglossal nerve. The vessel enters the digastric triangle l^y passing beneath the tendons of the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscles. When ligation of the artery is called for, it is, as a rule, preferable to secure it in the carotid rather than the digastric triangle. From a surgical point of view the internal jugular vein is the ir^ost important structure in the anterior triangle. In the carotid division of the; triangle it over- laps the carotid vessels, and its sheath lies close beneath the general envelope of deep cervical fascia. About the level of the hyoid bone it receives the large common facial vein, and it is the glands in the neighbourhood of those which overlie the junction of this vein with the internal jugular that are most frequently the seat of tubercular disease, because they receive such a large number of the lymphatics of the head, hoth superficial and deep. The hypoglossal nerve curves forwards across the carotid vessels at the level of the lower border of the posterior belly of the digastric. The vagus nerve descends vertically behind and between the carotid vessels and the internal jugular vein ; care must be taken not to include it when ligaturing the common carotid or internal jugular. Surgically, the spinal accessory is the most important nerve in the anterior triangle; it enters the substance of the sterno-mastoid muscle 1\ in. below the tip of the mastoid process. A portion of the nerve is resected in the treatment of spasmodic wry-neck, and it is almost always exposed in the removal of the upper carotid group of deep cervical glands. The course of the nerve may be mapped out upon the surface by drawing a line from a point midway between the tip of the mastoid process and the angle of the jaw to the middle of the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and thence across the posterior triangle to the anterior border of the trapezius, beneath which it passes at the level of the seventh cervical spine. The deeper guides to the nerve are the posterior belly of the digastric, the internal jugular vein, and the transverse process of the atlas, which is felt as a distinct bony landmark midway between the tip of the mastoid and the angle of the jaw. The cervical sympathetic lies in the posterior wall of the vascular compartment of the neck, and may be reached by an incision along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid: the anterior surfaces of the roots of the transverse processes of the vertebrce are the deep guides to the nerve. The cervical plexus, which lies behind the upper half of the sterno-mastoid upon the levator anguli scapula? and scalenus medius muscles, may be exposed through an incision along the posterior border of the upper half of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The phrenic nerve, the most important branch of the cervical plexus, arises one inch above the carotid tubercle and descends almost vertically upon the scalenus anticus; it is overlapped by the outer margin of the internal jugular vein. The muscular or lower carotid triangle is an important triangular inter- muscular space bounded by the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, the anterior