OSTEOLOGY. Fi(!. 148.—Thk Right Uxfii-ouM Bone. 202 side to side. This arrange- meet, the angle is bhmt, and has a narrow facet which articulates with the semi- lunar. Inferiorly there are two articular facets separated by a ridge ; these are slightly concave from be- fore backwards, and are for articulation, the outer with the fourth, and the inner V. .MetafariKU ^«<*»T^lf _ IV. Mpt;i<'arpai witli tlic fifth metacarpal bone. The dorsal surface, more or less triangular in shape, is rough for liga- ments. The unciform articulates with five bones—viz. the os magnum, semilunar, cunei- form, and the fourth and fifth metacarpals. The Carpus as a whole. When the carpal bones are articulated together they form a Ijony mass, the dorsal surface of which is convex from side to side. Anteri- orly they present a grooved appearance, concave from ment is further emphasised by the forward projection on the inner side of the pisiform and hook of the unciform, whilst externally the tuberesity of the scaphoid and the ridge of the trapezium help to deepen the furrow by their elevation. To these four points the anterior annular ligament of the wrist is attached, which stretches across from side to side, and thus converts the furrow into a canal through which the fiexor tendons pass to reach the fingers. Architecture.—Tlie bones are foriued of fairly compact spongy tissue, surrounded by a tliin shell of denser bone. They are very vascular, and their non-articular surfaces are pierced by many foramina. Variations.—Increase in the number of the carpal elements is occasionally met with, and these have been ascribed to division of the scaphoid, semilunar, cuneiform, os magnum, trape- zoid, and unciform. In the last-mentioned case the hook-like process persists as a separate ossicle ; but the researches of Thilenius {Morph. Arheitea, Bd. v."Heft 3, S. 462), together with the ■oljservations of Pfitzner, prove that all these superniuiierary bones are but the persistence of inde- pendent cartilaginous elements which are met with in the hand of thp human embryo between the second and fourth months, and which either disappear or become fused with adjacent elements. Of these the most interesting is the os ceutrale, first described by Rosenberg, and subsequently investigated by Henke, Leboucq, and others. This is met with almost invariably as an independent cartilaginous element during the earlier months of fcBtal life, and occasionally becomes developed into a distinct ossicle placed on the back of the carpus between the scaphoid and OS magnum and the trapezoid. Its significance depends on the fact that it is an im- portant component of the carpus in most mammals, and is met with normally in the orang and most monkeys. Ordinarily in man, as was pointed out by Leboucq, it Ijecomes fused with the scaphoid, where its jiresence is often indicated by a small tuljercle, a condition which maintains in the chimpanzee, the gorilla, and the gibbons. Further addition to the number of the carjjal elements may be due to the separation of the styloid process of the third m.etacarjial bone and its j)ersistence as a sejiarate ossicle. Reduction in the number of the carpus has been met with, but this is probably due to pathological causes. Morestin (Bull. Soc. Anat. de Paris, tome 71, p. 651), who has investigated the subject, finds that ankylosis occurs most frequently between the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones and the carpus, seldom or never between the carpus and the first metacarpal, or between the pisiform and cuneiform. Ossification.—At birth the carpus is entirely cartilaginous. An exceptional case is figured by Lambertz, in wliich the centres for the os magnum and unciform were already present. The same authority states that it is not uncommon to meet with these centres