28 GENEEAL EMBEYOLOGY. AM AMC into it, except the upper parts of the mouth and pharynx and the terminal portion of the rectum; thus the epithelium of the Eustachian tube and tympanic cavity, the trachea, the bronchi, the air-vesicles of the lungs, the gall-bladder, the urinary bladder, and part of the urethra is entodermal. It forms the epithelial constituents of the taste buds, or organs of taste, the liver and the pancreas, the epithelium lining the vesicles of the thyroid body and the cell nests of the thymus gland. From the mesoderm all the remaining structures which intervene between the surface ectoderm and the entodermal lining of the primitive alimentary tube are formed. The Protovertebral Somites and the Lateral Plates.—Each protovertebral somite consists of numerous cells arranged radially round a central cavity—the myeloccele; this latter, however, quickly disappears. The cells of the somites are gradually grouped into three sets, two to the inner and lower side of the cavity, and one to its upper and outer side. The two groups on the lower and inner side are an outer, next the cavity, the mus- cle plate, and an inner the sclera- togenous layer. The group on the upper and outer side of the cavity is the epithelial or cutaneous la- mella. The Sclerato- genous Layer.— The cells of this layer proliferate rapidly and mi- inwards, Proto vertebral somite gclerato- CutaneouL, , lamella — Muscle plate ^/ genous j-t layer ■ Soinatopleure Spianchnopieure grate Fig. 22.—Further Differentiation of the Mesoderm. Transverse section of a rat embryo, showing the transformation of the cells of the gun-oundino" the scleratogenous layer of a protovertebral somite and their e.xteusion round the + i j " i notochord and spinal cord. notOCnord, and passing both be- neath the neural tube and AM. Amnion. AMC. Amnion cavity. C. Ccelom. EC. Ectoderm. N. Notochord. PA. Primitive aorta. PAC. Primitive alimentary canal. SC. Spinal cord. SG. Spinal ganglion. SoM. Somatic mesoderm. SpM. Splanchnic mesoderm. up- wards along its VD. Vitello-intestinal duct lateral walls to its dorsal aspect; they intermingle above and below with the cells of the corre- sponding layer of the opposite side, and in front and behind with the cells of the scleratogenous layers of adjacent somites. In this way the neural tube and the notochord are gradually enveloped by a continuous sheath of mesodermal tissue, which forms the membranous vertebral column. This is perforated at regular intervals by the nerve-roots issuing from the spinal cord and brain, and by the vessels of supply to those structures. From its substance the vertebras and ligaments, the greater part of the intervertebral discs, and tlie investing membranes of the l)rain and cord are afterwards developed.^ The Muscle Plates.—The cells of the muscle plate layer lose their original epithelial-like characters; they elongate antero-posteriorly, become spindle-shaped and striated, and tliey give rise to the striped muscles of the body. For a long time the fibres developed from each muscle plate remain localised and quite distinct from the fibres developed from neighbouring segments; the masses they form are ' The development of the skeleton is described in the chapter on Osteology.