432 THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM. different stages of its development, it is a comparatively easy matter to locate tlie different tracts of fibres hy evidence of this kind. Speaking Ijroadly, the tracts which myelinate first are those wliicli bring the cord into relation with the perijiheral parts (skin, mnscles, etc.); then those fibres which bind the various segments of the cord together; next, those whicli connect the cord with the cerebellum ; and, lastly, tlie tracts M'hich connect the cord with the cerebrum. The nervous apparatus for the performance of automatic movements is fully provided, therefore, before this is put under the control and direction of the higher centres. It by no means follows that in all the higher animals corresponding strands myelinate at relatively corre.sponding periods. Take the case of a young animal whicli from the time of its birth is able to move about and perform voluntary movements of various kinds in a more or less jjerfect manner, and compare it with the helpless new-born human infant which is only cajiable of exliibiting automatic movements. In the former the pyramidal tracts, or motor tracts, whicli descend from the cerebrum into the cord, and which are tlie paths along which the mandates t)f the will travel, myelinate at an early period ; whilst in the human infant the corresponding fibres do not obtain tlieir medullary sheaths until after birth. The study of the dates, therefore, at which the various strands of nerve-fibres myelinate not only gives the anatomist a means of locating their position in the white matter of the cord, but it also affords the physiologist most important information regarding their functions, and also the periods at which these functions are called into play. Posterior Column of the Cord and the Posterior Roots of the Spinal Nerves.—In the cervical and upper dorsal regions of the cord the posterior colunni is divided by the posterior paramedian septum into the tract of Burdach, which lies externally and next the posterior horn of gray matter, and the tract of Goll, which lies internally and next the postero-median septum. The tract of Eurdach is composed of nerve-fibres, which are for the most part larger than those entering into the formation of Goll's tract, and both tracts have a most intimate relation to the posterior nerve-roots; indeed, they are both almost entirely composed of fibres which enter the cord by these roots and then piirsue a longitudinal course. The nerve-fibres which form the posterior nerve-roots, on entering the cord along the postero-lateral groove, divide within the tract of Burdach into ascending and descending branches. These branches diverge abruptly fi-om each other; and the former take an upward course, whilst the latter proceed downwards. The descending fibres are as a rule short, and soon turn inwards, to end in the gray matter of the cord. The ascending fibres vary greatly in length, and at varying distances from the point where the parent fibres enter the cord they turn inwards, to end in the gray matter. A small contribution of ascending fibres, however, from each posterior nerve-root, extends upwards to the upj^er end of the cord, to end in the medulla oblongata. As each posterior nerve-root enters, its fibres range themselves in the outer part of the tract of Burdach close up against the posterior horn of gray matter. The nerve- fibres of the nerve-root next above take the same position, and consequently those which entered from the nerve immediately below are displaced inwards, and come to lie in the tract of Burdach nearer to the mesial plane. This process goes on as each nerve-root enters, and the result is that the fibres of the lower nerves are gradually pushed nearer and nearer to the postero-median septum in a successive series of lamellar tracts. Of course the greater proportion of the fibres, which are thus carried upwards from the posterior nerve-roots, sooner or later leave the posterior column and enter the gray matter, to end there in relation to some of its cells ; but, as we have said, every posterior nerve-root sends a few fibres up the whole length of that portion of the cord which lies above, and thus the posterior column gradually increases in bulk as it is traced upwards, and in the upper reaches of the cord a tract of Goll becomes evident. This tract of Goll is composed of the long ascending fibres of the posterior nerve-roots, which have entered the lower segments of the cord. To put the matter differently, the fibres of the sacral roots are displaced inwards by the entering lumbar fibres, while the fibres of the lumbar roots ai"e in their turn pushed inwards by the entering dorsal fibres, and, lastly, the fibres of the cervical roots displace the dorsal fibres. The difference between the tract of Goll and the tract of Burdach simply consists in this, that the former is composed of the fibres of posterior nerve-roots which have entered tlie cord at a lower level than those whicli enter into the formation of the column of Burdach. The fibres of Goll's tract, taking them as a whole, must therefore necessarily run a very much longer course. Our knowledge of the constitution of the posterior columns of the cord is largely derived from studying the course of degeneration in monkeys, in which the cord has been cut across—either partially or completely. It would appear, from the examination of the human cord which has been injured or compressed, that the lamination of the