SUEFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. 1230 The great A'essels upon the posterior abdominal wall, along with the adjacent lymphatic A^essels and glands, lie in the extra-peritoneal fat, and therefore within the general fascial envelope of the abdomen. Abscesses originating from the retro-peritoneal lymphatic glands are, therefore, like perinephritic al)scesses, extra- peritoneal, Init intra-fascial; abscesses of spinal origin, whether lumbar, iliac, or psoas, are, on the other hand, extra-fascial. Abscesses connected with the vermi- form appendix are primarily intra-peritoneal; occasionally they ulcerate through the parietal peritoneum and ])urrow in the extra-peritoneal fat. THE MALE PEETNEUM. The male perineum is a heart-shaped space the osseous boundaries of which are the same as those which form the outlet of the pelvis. A line drawn transversely across the perineum Ijetween the anterior part of the tuberosities crosses the middle line innuediately in front of the anus, and divides the space into an anterior or urogenital triangle and a posterior or rectal triangle. The urogenital triangle is sul)divided into a superficial and deep compartment by the triangular ligament; iu the superficial compartment is the root of the penis, which gives rise to a longi- tudinal fulness upon the surface. Anteriorly, the surface of the urogenital triangle is continued on to the scrotum, whilst laterally a distinct groove separates it from the inner surface of the thighs. The central point of the perineum (common tendon of the perineal muscles) is continuous with the centre of the l)ase of the triangular ligament, and lies a finger's breadth in front of the anus. Immediately in front of it, and about 1 in. from the centre of the anus, is the posterior edge of the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. The superficial compartment of the urogenital triangle is bounded l)elow l)y the perineal fascia of Colles, which is attached posteriorly to the base of the triangular ligament, and laterally to the margins of the pubic arch. Anteriorly, the fascia of Colles passes on to the scrotum, the penis, and sper- matic cord, to become continuous witii the fascia of Scarpa upon the front of the abdomen. When the urethra is ruptured below the anterior layer of the triangular liga- ment, the course of infiltration of extravasated urine is determined Ijy these attach- ments ; at first, therefore, the urine is confined within this compartment, but gradually travels forwards under the fascia of Colles on to the lower part of the anterior abdominal wall; it is prevented from passing down the front of the thigh by the attachment of Scarpa's fascia to the fascia lata, a little below Poupart's ligament. The deep compartment of the urogenital division of the perineum corresponds to the interval between the triangular ligament proper and the parietal layer of the pelvic fascia (the so-called superior or deep layer of the triangular ligament). The most inii)ortant structures which this compartment contains are the membranous portion of the urethra, Cowper's glands, the internal pudic vessels, and the artery to tlie bull I. The membranous part of the urethra lies 1 in. Ijehind the lower border of the pubic symphysis. When this division of the urethra is ruptured, the extravasated urine, after filling the deep compartment, may reach the superficial compartment by ljursting through the triangular ligament where the vessels pierce it; or it may penetrate the parietal layer of the pelvic fascia, infiltrate the perivesical connective tissue and the space of Eetzius, and ultimately ascend in the anterior abdominal wall between the fascia transversalis and the parietal peritoneum. Cowper's glands, which lie immediately liehind the membranous urethra, are overlapped l)y the bulb of the urethra, from which they are separated by the tri- angular ligament. The internal pudic artery lies just within the margin of the pubic arch. The artery to the bulb runs transversely inwards \ in. abo^'e the base of the triangular ligament, i.e. above the level of a line drawn from the front of the tuberosities to the central point of the perineum. The male urethra measures about 8 in. from the external to the internal meatus; the narrowest portion is at the external meatus; a second narrowing occurs at the triangular ligament. It is behind these constrictions that a calculus