THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 612 lieneath the internal annular ligament and abductor hallucis to the interval between that miTScIe and the flexor brevis digitorum, in company with the internal plantar firtery. Tlie collateral branches are muscular, cutaneous, and articular. The muscular branches supply the abductor hallucis and the flexor Ijrevis digitorum. The plantar cutaneous branches are small twigs which pierce the plantar fascia in the interval l)etween these muscles to supply the inner part of the sole of the foot. The arti- cular branches are minute twigs which supply the inner tarsal and tarso-metatarsal articulations. The terminal branches are four in number, and may lie designated flrst, second, third, and fourth, from within outwards. The first (most internal) branch separates from the nerve before the others, and pierces the plantar fascia behind the ball of the great toe. It supplies a muscular branch to the flexor brevis hallucis, aud cutaneous branches to the inner side of the loot and ball of the great toe. It terminates as the plantar digital nerve for the inner side of the great toe. The second branch arises along with the third and fourth ; after supplying a branch to the first lumbrical muscle, it becomes superficial in the interval between the first and second toes, and terminates by dividing into two plantar digital nerves for the supply of the adjacent sides of these toes. The third and fourth branches are entirely cutaneous in their distribution. They become superficial in the intervals between the second and third aud the third and fourth toes respectively, and there divide into plantar digital branches for the supply of the adjacent sides of these toes. The plantar digital nerves supply the whole length of the toes on the plantar aspect, and, in relation to the terminal phalanges, furnish minute dorsal offsets for the supply of the nails and tips of the toes on their dorsal surface. The intei'ual plantar nerve thus supplies the skin of the three and a half inner toes in the sole of the foot Plantar and four muscles : the abductor hallucis and flexor brevis digitorum, the flexor brevis hallucis, and the first lumbrical I.PI, Internal plantar nerve, ami mugcle PB.M.D. AHd.m d. Fig. 445.—Scheme of Distri- bdtion of the Nerves. its cutaneous and muscular branches ; F.B.D, Flexor brevis digitorum ; Abd.H, Abductor hallucis ; F.B.H, Flexor brevis hallucis ; L.I, First luralfricalis ; E.Pl, Ex- ternal plantar nerve, and its ItS Origin cutaneous and muscular extends forwards and outwards in the sole, in company branches ; Acc, Accessorius ; Abd.m.d, Abductor minimi digiti; F.B.M.D, Flexor brevis minimi digiti ; R.P, Ramus profundus. External Plantar Nerve. The external plantar nerve (n. plautaris lateralis) is homologous with the ulnar nerve in the hand. From its origin beneath the internal annular ligament it with the external plantar artery, between the flexor brevis digitorum and accessorius muscles, towards the head of the fifth metatarsal bone. Here it terminates by dividing into superficial and deep branches. Collateral Branches.—Muscular branches are given off from the undivided nerve to the accessorius and abductor minimi digiti muscles. Cutaneous branches pierce the plantar fascia at intervals along the line of the intermuscular septum, between the flexor brevis digitorum and abductor minimi digiti. Terminal Branches.—The superficial branch (r. superficialis) is mainly cutaneous. Passing forwards between the flexor brevis digitorum and abductor minimi digiti, it divides into external and internal parts. The external branch, after supplying the flexor brevis minimi digiti muscle, and sometimes one or both interossei of the fourth space, becomes superficial behind the liall of the little toe, and supplies cutaneous twigs to the sole of the foot and ball of the toe. It terminates as the plantar digital branch for the outer side of the little toe.