844 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. numerous transverse anastomoses which cross in front of or behind the artery. The axillary vein, however, requires more detailed consideration. Radial veins Coiiimenceinent of iiieilian vein The Axillary Vein. The axillary vein (v. axillaris. Fig. 561) commences, as the direct continuation of the basilic vein, opposite the lower border of the teres major. It passes upwards and inwards through the axilla, along' the inner side of the corresponding artery, and terminates at the outer border of the first rib by becoming the sul:)clavian vein. It possesses a bicuspid valve which is usually situated opposite the lower border of the subscapu- laris muscle. Relations. — Its anterior rela- tions are similar to those of the axillary artery, but, in addition, the vein is crossed in front, under cover of the clavi- cular part of the ])ectoralis major, by the pectoral branches of the acromio - thoracic artery, and by branches of the internal anterior thoracic nerve, and it receives in front, just above the upper border of the pectoralis minor, the ter- mination of the cephalic vein. Behind it ai'c the muscles which form the posterior wall of the axilla, the axillary fat, and the first serration of the serratus niagnus. The long thoracic nerve intervenes between it and the serratus magnus, and the subscapular nerves and the sub- scapular ai'tery pass between it and the subscapularis. It is separated from the axillary artery on the outer side, in the lower part of its extent by the ulnar and internal cutaneous nerves, in the middle of its course by the inner cord of the brachial plexus, and in the upper part of the axilla, behind the costo-coracoid membrane, by the internal anterior thoracic nerve. To its inner side lie the outer set of axillary glands, and in the lower part of the axilla the lesser internal cutaneous nerve. Tributaries.—In addition to tributaries corresponding with the branches of the axillary artery, it receives the venre comitcs of the brachial artery, at the lower border of the subscapiilaris, and the ccpluilic vein, which joins it at the upper border of the small pectoral muscle. 584.—Superficial Vein.s ox the DousrM oi-' the Hand and Digits