THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 578 join the spinal accessory nerve in three situations:—(a) A branch from the second cervical nerve to the sterno-mastoid joins the spinal accessory nerve beneath that muscle, (b) Branches to the trapezius from the third and fourth nerves are con- nected with the spinal accessory nerve in the posterior triangle, (c) Branches from the same nerves join the spinal accessory nerve beneath the trapezius muscle. The internal branches of the plexus also comprise muscular and communi- cating branches. The first cervical nerve assists in the formation of this series of Hypoglossal nf.rve Recurrent branch | Vagus nerve I Superior cervical ganglion of Uie sympaUietic First cervical nerve< Second cervical nerve Glosso-pharyngeal nerve Third cervical nerve Stylopharyngeus Pharyngeal branch of vagus —' Digastric DESCENDENS HYPOGLOSSl Middle constrictor DESCENDENS CERVICIS Internal laryngeal nerve Ansa hvpoglossi' Inferior constrictor Omo-hyoid J— Hyoglossus ^ V^A - Geuio-hyoglossus Genio-hyoid Mylo-liyoid (cut) Digastric Thyro-hyoid Fig. 428.- -The Muscles of the Hyoid Bone and Styloid Puocess, and the Extkinsic Muscles of THE Tongue, with their Nerves. nerves, forming a slender loop witla part of the second nerve in front of the trans- verse process of the atlas. Communicating Branches, (a) With the sympathetic.—Gray rami communi- cantes pass to each of the first four cervical nerves, near their origins, from the superior cervical ganglion or from the cord below the ganglion. {b) With the jmeumogastric nerve.—The ganglion of the trunk of the pneumogastric nerve may be connected by a slender nerve witli the loop between the first two cervical nerves. This communication is not constant, (c) With the hypoglossal.—An important communication occurs between the hypoglossal nerve and the loop between the first and second cervical nerves (Kig. 428). A trunk from the last-named nerves joins the liypoglossal just beyond its exit from the skull. One fine Ijranch from this trunk passes upwards along the hypoglossal nerve towards the skull (meningeal branch).