THE OCCIPITAL BONE. 109 cartilage which unites it to the sides and apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone. The foramen magnum, of oval shape, so disposed that its long axis lies in the sagittal plane, is of variable size and form. The plane of its outlet differs somewhat in individual skulls; in most instances it is directed downwards and slightly forwards. In front the condyles encroach upon it, and narrow to some extent its transverse diameter. To its margins are attached the ligaments which unite it with the atlas and axis. Through it pass the lower part of the medulla oblongata where it becomes continuous with the spinal cord, the two vertebral arteries, the spinal accessory nerves, and the blood vessels of the meninges of the upper part of the cord. Connexions.—The occipital bone articulates with the two parietals in front and above, with the sphenoid in front and below, with the two temporals on either side, and with the atlas vertebra by means of its condyles. Architecture.—The squamous part displays thickenings in the position of the various ridges and crests, the stoutest part corresponding to the internal and external occipital protuberances, though it should be noted that the two protuberances do not necessarily coincide, the internal being, as a rule, placed at a higher level than the external. If the bone be held up to the light it will be at once apparent that it is much thinner where it forms the floor of the inferior fosste than in the upper part. The basilar portion consists of a sj^ongy core surrounded by a more compact outer envelope, thickest on its lower surface. In the condyles the spongy tissue is arranged radially to their convex articular surfaces, the hypoglossal canal being surrounded by particularly dense and compact bone. Variations.—The most striking of the many variations to which this bone is subject is the separation of the upper part of the occipital squama to form an independent bone—the inter- parietal bone, callecl also, from the frequency of its occurrence in Peruvian skulls, the os Incae. As will be seen below (see ossification), the occurrence of this anomaly is explained de.velopment- ally. In jjlace of forming a single bone the interparietal is occasionally met with in two symmetrical halves, and instances have been recorded of its occurrence in three or even four pieces. In the latter cases the two anterior parts form the pre-interparietals. The articular surface of the condyles is sometimes divided into an anterior and posterior part. The so-called third occipital condyle is an outstanding process rising from the anterior border of the foramen magnum, the extremity of which articulates with the odontoid process of the axis. Springing from the under surface of the extremity of the jugular process, a rough or smooth elevated surface, or else a projecting process, the extremity of which may articu- late with the transverse process of the atlas, is some- times met with. This is the paroccipital or para- mastoid process. Numerous instances of fusion of the atlas with the occipital bone have been recorded. Many are, no doubt, pathological in their origin; others are associated with errors in development. Interesting anomalies are these in which there is evidence of the intercalation of a new vertebral element between the atlas and occipital, constituting what is termed a proatlas. Ossification.—The major part of the bone ossifies in cartilage, the upper part of the squama (interparietal), alone developing in membrane. The basilar part begins to ossify about the sixth week of foetal life by the appearance of two centres, one in front of the other; the anterior, according to Albrecht, constitutes the basiotic, the posterior the basioccipital. These two centres—which there is some reason to believe—may themselves be formed by the fusion of pairs placed laterally, rapidly unite, so that the occurrence of one centre alone is « frequently described. From this the fore part of Fig. 84.—Ossification of Occipital Bone, the margin of the foramen magnum is formed, together with a portion of the anterior end of the occipital condyle on either side. It helps also to close up the front of the anterior condylic canal. Union with the condylic parts is com- plete about the fourth or fifth year. Ankylosis between the basioccipital and the sphenoid takes place about the twenty-fifth year. The lateral, condylic, or exoccipital parts begin to ossify from a single centre about a, Basilar centre ; 6, Exoccipital ; c. Ossicle of Kerkring ; d, Supra-occipital (from car- tilage) ; e. Fissure between supra-occipital and interparietal-; /, Interparietal (from membrane) ; g, Fissure between inter- parietals.