THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 540 The external capsule is loosely connected with the outer surface of the putamen, and it can be readily strijiped off. This accounts for the tendency, exhibited in haemorrhages in this locality, for the effused blood to spread out in the interval between these structures. The globus pallidus is composed of the two smaller and inner zones of the lenti- cular nucleus. They present a faint yellowish tint, and are paler and more abundantly traversed by fibres than the putamen. The zone next the putamen (i.e. the intermediate zone) is much larger than the innermost subdivision. It extends forwards to a point a little in front of the plane of the anterior cou>missure. When the lenticular nucleus is cut in a coronal direction, and in its widest part, the innermost zone shows an indication of a separation into two parts, so that here the globus pallidus appears to consist of three subdivisions. The morphology of the globus pallidas is by no means clear. Connexions of the Corpus Striatum.~(l) Numerous fibres from the optic thalamus pass into the anterior limb of the internal capsule and enter both the caudaife and the lenticular nuclei. These may be termed the thalamo-striate fibres. (2) Edinger Fig. 403.—Coronal Section throdgh the Left Side of the Cerebrdm of an Oranq (Weigert-Pal specimen). The section passes througli the middle of the lenticular nucleus. describes a connexion between the caudate nucleus and the substantia nigra. The con- necting fibres pass through the subthalamic region and constitute a tract in the mesen- cephalon, in close apposition with the substantia nigra, called the stratum intermedium. (3) The ansa lenticularis has previously been described. It is composed of fibres which come from the inferior part of the fore portion of the thalamus and curve outwards under the lenticular nucleus. They stream upwards into this and through its medullary laminte. Many of tliem apparently proceed onwards to the cerebral cortex. (4) Fibres from the posterior limb of the internal capsule (thalamic fibres chiefly) enter the lenticular nucleus and stream through it, and its medullary lamina;, on their way to the cerebral cortex. Claustrum.—-This is a thin plate of gray substance embedded in the white matter, which intervenes between the lenticular nucleus and the gray cortex of the