527 GYEUS DENTATUS. callosal gyrus is separated from the marginal convolution by the calloso-marginal fissure, and behind this it is imperfectly marked off from the praecuneus by the post-limbic sulcus. The furrow which separates it from the corpus callosum is termed the callosal sulcus. The hippocampal convolution is bounded on the outer side by the anterior part of the collateral fissure, and in front of this by the incisura temporalis, which separates its hooked extremity, or uncus, from the temporal pole. On the inner side it is limited by the hippocampal or dentate, fissure, whilst posteriorly it is divided into two parts by the anterior extremity of the calcarine fissure. Of these, the upper is the isthmus, which connects it with the callosal gyrus, whilst the lower portion brings it into continuity with the gyrus lingualis. The surface of the hippocampal convolution is covered by a white reticular stratum of fibres, termed the substantia reticularis alba. Gyrus Dentatus and the Fimbria.—If the dentate fissure, which lies along the inner side of the hippocampal convolution, be opened up, the gyrus dentatus and the fimbria, lying side by side, will be brought into view (Fig. 386, p. 518). The fimbria is simply a portion of the posterior pillar of the fornix prolonged into this region. It is a conspicuous band of white matter, which presents a prominent free border. In front it runs into the recurved extremity of the uncus, whilst, if traced backwards, it will be seen to curve upwards behind the posterior end of the optic thalamus and become continuous with the posterior pillar of the fornix below the hinder part of the corpus callosum. Caudate nucleus—' Choroid plexus in lateral ventricle "^^Corpus callosum Fornix Thalamus (pulvinar) Occipital corticifiigal tract to superior quadrigeiiiinal body Superior quadrigeminal body Corpus geniculatum externum Corpus geniculatum internum Sylvian gray matter Inferior brachium Lateral fillet Superior cerebellar peduncle ^— Cerebellum Pons Optic radiation Caudate nucleus Optic radiation Inferior longitudinal bundle Tapetum Descending horn of lateral ventricle Fimbria Gyrus dentatus Dentate hsaure Fig. 391.—Coronal Section throogh the Left Side ok the Cerebrum, Mesencephalon, and Pons, IN THE Region of the Pulvinar of the Thalamus and the Corpora Geniculata (Chimpanzee ; Weigert-Pal specimen). The gyrus dentatus is the free edge of gray matter wliich is placed between the fimbria and the deep part of the upper surface of the hippocampal convolution. The groove between it and the fimbria is termed the fimbrio-dentate sulcus, whilst the furrow between it and the hippocampal convolution forms the bottom of the dentate fissure. The dentate gyrus is notched along the margin, whilst its surface is scored by numerous parallel and closely-placed transverse grooves. It begins behind in the region of the splenium or thickened posterior margin of the corpus callosum, and is carried forwards into the cleft of the uncus. From this it emerges