262 THE ARTICULATIONS OE JOINTS. the upper and lower fasciculi proceed to the adjacent margins of the two vertebrae between which the disc is situated, and with which the rib articulates. To a slight extent these radiating fasciculi pass under cover of the lateral margin of the anterior common ligament of the vertebral bodies. In those joints in which the head of the rib does not articulate with an intervertebral disc, the central fasciculus of the stellate ligament is wanting, but the other two retain the same general arrangement. The interarticular ligament (lig. capituli costse interarticulare) consists of short transverse fibres within the capsule. These are attached, on the one hand, to the ridge which intervenes between the two facets on the head of the rib, and on the other to the lateral aspect of the interverteljral disc. This ligament is not a meniscus, but merely an interarticular ligament, of width sufficient to divide the joint cavity into an upper and a lower compartment. It is absent from those joints which do not articulate with an intervertebral disc, i.e. from those ribs which only articulate with the body of one vertebra. The interarticular ligament is suiiposed to represent the outer end of a ligament which, under the name of the lig. conjugale costarum, connects the heads of tlie rihs of certain mammals across the posterior aspect of the intervertebral disc, and wliicli, in the human subject, until tlie seventh month of foetal life, connects the posterior aspects of the necks of a pair of ribs across the mesial plane. Synovial membrane lines each joint cavity, and therefore, in all cases whei'e the joint is divided into two compartments, each one has its own synovial membrane. Costo-Teansverse Joints. The tubercle of each typical rib articulates with the transverse process of the lower of the two dorsal vertebr<E with which the head of the rib is associated (articulatio costo-transversaria). Near the tip of the transverse process there is an articular facet, on its anterior aspect, for articulation with the corresponding facet on the mesial articular part of the rib tubercle. The joint so formed is an arthrodial diarthrosis. The joint cavity is surrounded by a comparatively feeble capsular ligament, which is attached immediately beyond the margins of the articular facets, and in which no special l)ands can be distinguished. A simple synovial membrane lines the capsular Hgament in all cases where the latter is present. The following accessory ligaments, in connexion with this joint, strengthen and support the articulation :— The anterior or superior costo-transverse ligament (ligamentum costo-transver- sarium anterius. Fig. 199) consists of strong bands of fibres which are attached to the upper border of the neck of the rib, extending from the head outwards to the non-articular part of the tubercle. All these fibres^may be traced upwards. Those situated nearest to the head of the rib proceed obliquely upwards and outwards, to be attached to the transverse process immediately above, but with extensions to the adjoining rib and its costo-transverse capsular ligament. Others proceed almost vertically upwards to the adjoining transverse process, while those which ascend from the upper surface of the tubercle pass obliquely upwards and inwards to reach the postero-inferior aspect of the adjoining transverse process. The posterior costo-transverse ligament (ligamentum costo-transversarium pos- terius) is a Imnd of transverse fibres applied to the postero-external aspect of the capsule. By one end these fibres are attached to the tip of the transverse process behind its articular facet, and by the other to the external rough surface of the tubercle of the rib. The middle costo-transverse ligament (lig. colli costae) consists of short fibres which stretch from the posterior aspect of the neck of the rib, backwards and in- wards, to the front of the transverse process, but, in addition, a proportion of the fibres passes to the posterior aspect of the inferior articular process of the upper of the two vertebrae with which the head of the rib articulates.