DESCENT OF THE TESTIS. 1111 Vessels and Nerves of the Vas and Vesicula Seminalis.—The \ as receives its arterial supply from tlie superior or inferior vesical arteries. The artery to the vas acconipanies that structure, supplying it as far as the testis, where it ends by anastomosing with branches of the spermatic artery. The vesicula seminalis is supplied Ijy the inferior vesical artery. The nerves of the vas and vesicula seminalis are derived from the hypogastric plexu.s. Descent of the Testis. The peculiar course pursued by the vas deferens in the adult, and the manner in which it is related to the anterior abdominal wall, are rendered clear by a study of the arrange- ment of the parts that obtains in the foetus. The testes until nearly the end of intra- uterine life are placed in the abdominal cavity. Lying at first on the posterior wall of the abdomen, in the neighbourhood of the kidney, the testis is held in place by a fold of peritoneum, which forms for it a mesentery called the mesorchium. As growth goes on the testis is found to occupy a lower level in the abdominal cavity, and in the seventh month it lies near the internal abdominal ring. Meanwhile a blind pouch or diverticulum of the peritoneal membrane, termed the processus vaginalis, has grown downwards and inwards Hypogastric artery Testis Epidiflymis ij-pGuberuaeuluiii Mesorchium Vas deferens Rectum through the anterior , ^ abdominal wall towards the abdouiinai ring- scrotum, deriving as it goes a covering from each of the layers of the abdominal wall through which it passes. The testis with its mesor- chium enters the diverti- culum of the abdominal cavity, and in this manner reaches the scrotum. At a later stage, the connexion between tlie part of the processus vaginalis that lies in the scrotum and the peritoneal lining of the abdomen becomes lost by _ _ „ ^ , . . , \ Fig. 757.—View looking from above into the Pelvis and Lower the obliteration or tne upper p^^^^^ ^^^^ Abdominal Cavity in a FiETUs of about the part of the pouch. Thus Seventh Month. the part of the processus (,^^g jgj-j. ^-^^^^ whicli represents a slightly more advanced condition than vaginalis that persists in the right, the testis has entered the inguinal canal ; on the right side the scrotum becomes the the testis is still within the abdominal cavity, parietal portion of the tunica vaginalis; while the visceral part of that membrane is the primitive peritoneal covering of the testis and epididymis (Figs. 757 and 758). Often a small fibrous band—the ligamentum vaginale—may be found in the adult passing through the inguinal canal and joining the peritoneum superiorly in the region of the internal abdominal ring. Sometimes the ligament is connected below with the tunica vaginalis, but more often it does not reach so far downwards. When present it represents the obliter- ated portion of the processus vaginalis (rudimentum processus vaginalis). In other rare cases the processus vaginalis may persist after birth as a channel freely Fig. 758.-Diagram to illustrate the descent of the open to the abdominal cavity above, or testis and the manner in which the tunica vaginalis the passage, becoming closed at intervals, is derived. niay give rise to one or more cysts within a.c. Abdominal cavity. s. Scrotum. the Coverings of the spemiatic cord. 7).f. Processus vaginalis. t.c. Tunica vaginalis. t, .7^. , i.i i 1 j. t. Testis. X. Ligamentum vaginale. It sometimes happens that the descent of the testis is arrested, and then, either failing to enter the processus vaginalis, the testis remains within the abdominal cavity ; or entering the processus vaginalis, it fails to reach the scrotum, and lies in the inguinal caml. The term cryptorciiism is frequently applied to such cases. In connexion with the descent of the testis a remarkable cord-like structure—the