789 THE ULNAE AKTERY. Branches of the third part.—(1) The princeps pollicis (a. princeps pollicis) branch is given oft' as soon as the radial artery enters the pahn. It runs downwards in front of the first metacarpal bone, between the oblique adductor and the opponens pollicis, and under cover of the long flexor tendon, and divides near the lower end of the bone into collateral branches which run along the sides of the thumb and anastomose with the dorsales pollicis arteries. (2) The radialis indicis (a. volaris indicis radialis) is a branch which descends between the ulnar head of the first dorsal interosseous muscle and the transverse adductor of the thumb, and runs along the radial side of the index-finger to its tip, supplying the adjacent tissues; not uncommonly it anastomoses with the superficial palmar arch. The Ulnar Artery. The ulnar artery (a. ulnaris, Figs. 563 and 564) is the larger terminal branch, but the less direct continuation of the brachial. It commences in the ante-cubital fossa, opposite the neck of the radius, and terminates in the palm of the hand, where it anastomoses v^ith the superficiaKs volse to form the superficial pahnar arch. From its origin it runs obliquely downwards and inwards, beneath the muscles arising from the internal condyle, to the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the forearm, where it comes into relation with the ulnar nerve; it then descends vertically, on the radial side of the uhiar nerve, to the wrist, crosses in front of the main part of the annular ligament to the radial side of the pisiform bone, and enters the palm of the hand to form the main part of the superficial palmar arch. Relations.—Posterior.—It rests, from above downwards, upon the lower part of the brachialis anticus, the flexor profundus digitoruni, and the deep portion of the anterior annular ligament. Anterior.—In fi'ont it is crossed, in the oblique part of its course, by the pronator radii teres, the median nerve, which is separated from the artery by the deep head of the pronator, the flexor sublimis digitorum, the flexor carpi radialis, and the palmaris longus. In the middle third of the foi-eai-m it is overlapped by the anterior border of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and in the lower third it is covered by skin and fascia .only. A short distance above the wrist the palmar cutaneous branch of the median nerve lies in front of it, and as it crosses the anterior annular ligament, it is bound down by a fascial expansion from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. Two venae comites, which frequently communicate with one another, lie one on either side of the artery. Lateral.— On the radial side there is also, in its lower two-thirds, the flexor sublimis digitorum. On its idnar side there is the flexor carpi ulnaris, from which, however, it is partially separated in its lower two-thirds by the ulnar nerve. Branches. — (1) The anterior ulnar recurrent is a small branch which arises in the ante-cubital fossa, frequently in common with the posterior ulnar recurrent. It passes upwards to the front of the internal condyle, inider cover of the pronator radii teres, and anastomoses with branches of the anastomotic and inferior profunda arteries. (2) The posterior ulnar recurrent branch, larger than the anterior, arises in the ante-cubital fossa, from the outer side of the ulnar artery, and ascends on the brachialis anticus, and under cover of the muscles which rise from the internal condyle to the back of that prominence, where it passes between the humeral and olecranoid heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and anastomoses with the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries. It gives branches to the adjacent muscles and to the elbow-joint. (3) The common interosseous artery (a. interossea communis), a short trunk which springs from the inner and back part of the ulnar artery in the lower part of the ante-cubital fossa. It passes backwards towards the Tipper border of the interosseous membrane, and divides into anterior and posterior interosseous branches. (3a) The anterior interosseous artery (a. interossea volaris) descends in front of the interosseous membrane, between the adjacent borders of the flexor longus pollicis and the flexor profundus digitorum, to the upper border of the pronator quadratus, where it pierces the interosseous membrane, and continues its descent, first on the posterior surface of the membrane, under cover of the extensor longus pollicis and extensor indicis, and then on the radius, in the groove for the extensor communis digitorum, to the back of the carpus, where it terminates in the posterior carpal arch. Whilst in front of the interosseous memV;rane it is accompanied by the anterior interosseous nerve, and afterwards by the posterior interosseous nerve.