531 FOENIX AND SEPTUM LUCIDUM. The anterior pillars of the fornix (coluumtts I'oruicis) are two rounded strands which emerge from the anterior part of the body of the fornix, and then diverge very slightly from each other as they curve downwards in front of the foramina of Monro. Sinking into the gray matter en the lateral wall of the third ventricle, each anterior pillar proceeds downwards to the base of the brain, and in the inter- peduncular space protrudes, to take part in the formation of the corpus mammillare. When the corpus mammillare is dissected it appears to be largely formed of a twisted loop of the anterior pillar of the foa'nix, in which the pillar bends ixpou itself, and is then continued upwards and backwards into the optic thalamus. This appearance, however, is misleading. The fibres of the anterior pillar end in the gray nucleus of the corpus mammillare, and the strand which passes from this to the thalamus is the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr (p. 507); The posterior pillars of the fornix (crura fornicis) are liattened bands which diverge widely from each other. At first they are adherent to the under surface of the corpus callosum, but soon they sweep downwards round the posterior ends of the optic thalami and enter the descending horns of the lateral ventricles. Here each pillar comes into relation with the corresponding hippocampus major, and a portion of its fibres are spread out on the surface of this prominence, forming the alveus, whilst the remainder constitute the fimbria or taenia fornicis—a narrow but very distinct band of white matter, which is attached by its outer margin along the inner border of the hippocampus major and ends in front by joining the uncus (p. 527). A certain number ot transverse fibres enter into the formation ot the fornix. The diverging posterior pillars enclose between them a small triangular space on the under surface of the hinder part of the corpus callosum. This area is crossed by transverse fibres, which form a thin lamina called the psalterium or lyra. Some- times the psalterium is not completely fused to the under surface of the corpus callosum, and in these cases a narrow space is left between them, which receives the name of Verga's ventricle. The fornix is intimately connected with the olfactory apparatus. Its fibres, for the most part, arise from the pyramidal cells in the cornii ammonis or hippocampus major and ascend in tlie fimbria and posterior pillar. In tlie region of the psalterinm numerous fibres cross the mesial plane, enter the opposite posterior pillar, and in it proceed to the opj^osite cornu ammonis. These fibres constitute a commissure between the two cornua ammonis. The remainder of the fibres proceed forwards in the body of the fornix, and by means of the anterior pillar the iiiajority of the filires are carried downwards, behind the anterior commissure, to the corpus mannnillare. Some, lio\\"ever, curve liaekwards into the stria meduUaris (p. 506); whilst others, forming the olfactory bundle of the cornu ammonis, pass in front of the anterior commissure and enter the septum lucidum, through A\ ]iich tliey reach the subcallosal gyrus and the locus per- foratus anticus. Finally, this bundle divides into two parts, of whicli one joins tlie inner root of the olfactory tract, whilst the other goes to tlie uncus. The greater number of the longitudinal fibres of the fornix nuist, therefore, be regarded as establishing a connexion between the cornu ammonis and the optic thalamus. The nucleus of the corpus mammillare is an internode interposed in tlie path of this connecting tract. The bundle of Vicq d'Azyr, formed by the relay df fibres which takes origin in this internode, forms the second link in the chain. Tlie striie longitudinales on the upper surface of the corpus callosum are to be regarded, from a morph(jlogical point of view, as forming an outlying part of the foi'uix system. Septum Lucidum (septum pellucidum).—This is a thin vertical partition which intervenes between the anterior cornua and foreparts of the bodies of the two lateral ventricles. It is triangular in shape, and posteriorly it is prolonged back- wards for a variable distance between the body of the corpus callosum and the fornix, to both of which it is attached by its upper and lower edges. In front it occupies the gap behind the genu of the corpus callosum, whilst below, in the narrow interval between the posterior edge of the rostrum of the corpus callosum and the fornix, it is prolonged downwards towards the base of the brain in the gyrus subcallosus. The septum lucidum is composed of two thin laminae in appo- sition with each other in the mesial plane (Fig. 396, p. 534). Fifth Ventricle (cavum septi pellucidi).—This is the name which is applied to the mesial cleft between the two laminae of the septum lucidum. It varies greatly in size in different brains and contains a little fluid. It is completely isolated and