GENERAL EMBRYOLOGY. 12 regarded as a secondary membrane, and is altogether different from the vitelline membrane. The perforations in the zona serve for the passage of nutritive material to the ovum; they also allow the spermatozoon to reach the ovicell. When the ovum leaves the Graafian follicle it is surrounded by several layers of cells, the innermost of which are columnar. They are derived from the cells of the follicle, and collectively constitute the corona radiata; the cells gradually diminish in size, and ultimately disappear. Their function is imknown, but between them and the zona pellucida there is a layer of granular matter, probably formed by the cells of the corona radiata, which rapidly swells up wlien the ovum is liberated from the follicle, and forms a gelatinous elastic layer called the albumen ; this increases in thickness as the ovum passes along the oviduct, and persists for some time after it enters the uterine cavity. The function of the albumen has not been definitely ascertained; it may act merely as a protective covering against undue pressure, possibly it may be nutritive, whilst in the dog it apparently helps to fix the ovum to the wall of the uterus. It has not been found in all- mammalian ova, and it has not been seen round the human ovum; still it may be present, for human ova at tlie stage when it might be expected to develop have not yet been observed. Special Characters of the Ovum.—Though the ovum, as compared with an ordinary animal cell, presents no obvious structural modifications, it undoubtedly differs greatly in its capabilities and life-ldstory. Unlike an ordinary cell it has no inherent power of division into equal parts, and it cannot divide in the usual manner until it has been fertilised by union witli the male element; but before fertilisation occurs the ovum twice undergoes an unequal division during the period of ripening or maturation. Maturation of the Ovum.—Whilst in the ovary the ovum, at first small, ABC Fio. 5.—The Maturation op the Ovum: Extrusion of the "Polar Bodies" (Diagrammatic). A, All ovum at tlie comineucenieut of tlie process ; B, After the formation of the spindle. Tlie chromosomes are gathered at the equator of tlie .spindle in groups of four, i.e. in " tetrads," each of which consists of two " dyads." C, One a))e.\ of the spiniUe has projected into a bud on the surface, and tlie dyads have jiassed to the poles ; D, The separation of the ttrst polar hody ; E, The conimenceuient of the second polar body ; F, The completion of the second polar Ijody. gradually increases in size. liefore, or immediately after, its discharge from tlie Graafian follicle it matures in preparation for fertilisation. The phenomena observable during the period of maturation are essentially