OSTEOLOGY. 204 Head Tubercle is compressed from before backwards. Its head, of large size, is but slightly couvex from side to side, and is grooved in front for the sesamoid bones. The base is pro- vided with a saddle-shaped surface for articula- tion witli the trapezium, and has no lateral facets. Externally there is a slight tubercle to wbich the abductor longus pollicis muscle, is attached. The canal for the nutrient artery is directed towards the head of the bone. The second metacarpal bone is recognised by its leugtli and its Ijro.ad and deeply-notched l)ase for articulation with the trapezoid. It has a small half-oval facet for the trapezium on the radial side of its base, whilst on its ulnar aspect it presents a narrow vertical strip for the OS magnum, iu front of which there are two half-oval surfaces for the third metacarpal. To the dorsal aspect of the base is attached the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longior muscle, whilst the flexor carpi radialis is inserted in front. The third meta- carpal bone can usually be recog- nised by the pointed styloid process which springs from the back of its base, and Trapezoi<l Os inai;uuiM Trapezium Fig. 150.- Trapezuiil -Second Metacarpal Bone. is directed radial - wards. Superiorly there is a facet on the base for the os mag- num. To the radial side there are two half-oval facets for the second meta- carpal. To the ulnar side there are usually two small oval or nearly circular facets for the fourth meta- carpal. Tile extensor carpi radialis l)revior muscle is inserted into the back of styloid 11. Jletacariial Fic. 151.—THUiD Metacakpai, Bone. the base. The fourth metacarpal bone may be recognised by a method of exclusion. It is unlike either the first, second, or third, and differs from the fifth, wliich it resembles in size, by having articular surfaces on both sides of its base. Superiorly there is a quadrilateral surface on its base for articulation with the unciform. On its radial side there are usually two small oval facets for the third metacarpal. Of these facets the dorsal one not infrequently lias a narrow surface for articulation with the os magnum. On the ulnar side there is a narrow articular strip for the base of the fifth metacarpal. The fifth metacarpal bone can be recognised by its size and the fact that it