UEOGENITAL SYSTEM. 1112 gubernaculum testis—must be mentioned. The guberuaculum iu its earliest condition is represented by a peritoneal fold stretching downwards from the caudal end of the ridge which higher up gives origin to the testis. At a later stage this fold is relatively much shorter, and is found to contain between its layers fibrous and muscular tissue. The gubernaculum, when it is at its greatest development (about the sixth month), is rounded and cord-like, and is attached above to the lower end of the testis, while inferiorly it is fixed near the inguinal region. The muscular fibres which it contains are derived by an ingrowth from the muscles of the inguinal part of the anterior abdominal wall. As the testis enters the processus vaginalis the gubernaculum atrophies, but its muscular fibres .are supposed to give origin, in part at least, to the cremaster muscle of the adult. The connective tissue and smooth muscle fibres, which connect the testis with the lowest part of the scrotum in the adult, are also derived from the gubernaculum. It is considered by some anatomists that the movement downwards of the testis may be partly due to the shrinking of the gubernaculum as i-t atrophies (Fig. 757).' In some mammals, such as the elephant, the testes remain per- manently within the abdominal cavity; while in others, such as the rabbit and the hedgehog, the peritoneal pouches i-ema'in widely open throughout life, and the testes are periodically withdrawn into the abdomen. ()l)li(i\iii.s extpi niis < Ibliiiuus internus llio-liypogastric nerve llio-inguinal nerve Cremaster Aponeurosis ol)lii|Uus exteruMs (<• Saplienous open; Genito-crural m i \ Internal saphenous vein — .Ajjoneurosis of obliquus extei'iins (cut) Twelfth tiioracic nerve Triaiinular laseia Si>erinatie coril Suspensory liga- ment of penis liitercoluinnar fascia Uartos muscle Jl>9.—The Ghoin. The structures seen on removal of part ol' tli obliquus exteriius (A. M. Patersou). The Spermatic Cord. The testis in its course downwards through the abdominal wall into tlie scrotum takes with it its duct (vas deferens), its vessels, and its nerves of supply. All these lie together in the inguinal canal as they traverse the abdominal wall, and when they leave the canal by the external abdominal ring they extend downwards to the posterior Ijorder of the testis. The vas deferens, the spermatic vessels, and the nerves and lymphatics of the testis, loosely connected together, form the spermatic cord (funiculus spermaticus). ' At the internal abdominal ring the constituent parts of the cord disperse and separate from each other. The cord may therefore be considered to extend from the internal abdominal ring to the posterior border of the testis. The structures whicli form the cord are enclosed within a number of coverings derived from the layers of the anterior abdominal wall. When the constituents of the cord reach the posterior border of the testis, the coverings surround the tunica vaginalis and its enclosed testis, and so form a part of the wall of the scrotum. The coverings of the cord derived from the abdominal wall are three in number, and are named intercolumnar fascia, cremasteric fascia, and infundil)uliform fo,scia. The inter- columnar fascia is the most superficial of tlie three coverings, and is derived from the aponeurosis of the external olilique muscle, with which it is continuous round the margins of the external alidominal ring. The cremasteric fascia consists partly of muscular libres derived from the lower part of the internal oblique muscle, and partly of delicate connective tissue. The muscular fibres pass down over the cord, and form a series of loops round the testis and tunica vaginalis. The infumdi- ■buliform fascia is derived from the fascia transversalis nf the abdomen. It passes