MEMBEANOUS LABYEINTH. 721 Oviter attachment of Reissner's membrane membrana basilaris. The upper surface of the labium vestibulare presents a num- ber of furrows crossing each other, nearly at right angles, and intersecting a series of elevations which, at the free margin of the labium, form a row of tooth-like structures, some 7000 in number, the auditory teeth of Buschke. Covering the limbus is a layer of apparently squamous epithelium ; the . deeper protoplasmic portions of the cells, however, with their contained nuclei, fill up the intervals between the elevations and auditory teeth, and are continuous with the cells lining the sulcus spiralis internus. Membrana Basilaris.—The inner part of this membrane is thin, and sup- ports the organ of Corti; it is named the zona arcuata, and reaches as far as the footplate of the outer rod of Corti. Its outer part, extending from the footplate of the outer rod of Corti to the crista basilaris,is thicker and distinctly striated, and is termed the zona pectinata. The substantia propria of the membrane is almost homogeueoxis, but exhibits, in its deeper part, numerous fibres. These fibres are most distinct in the zona pectinata, and number, according to Ketzius, about 24,000. Covering the under surface of the membrana basilaris is a layer of connective tissue, which contains, in its inner part, small blood- vessels, one of which, larger than the rest, lies below the tunnel of Corti and is named the vas spirale. The width of the membrana basilaris increases from 210 fJL in the basil coil to 360 [m in the apical coil. Organ of Corti (Fig. 528).—Placed upon the inner portion of the membrana basilaris, the organ of Corti consists of an epithelial eminence which extends along the entire length of the ductus cochlearis and ■compi'ises the following structures, viz. : (1) Corti's rods or pillars, (2) hair cells (inner and outer), (3) supporting cells of Deiters, {4) the cells of Henseu and Claudius, (5) the lamina reticularis, and (6) a cuticular membrane, the membrana tectoria. The rods of Oorti form two rows, inner and outer, of stiff', pillar-like structures, and each rod presents a base or footplate, an intermediate elongated portion, and an upper end or head. The bases of the two rows are planted on the membrana basilaris, some little distance apart. The intermediate portions incline towards each other and the heads come into contact, so that, between the two rows above and the membrana basilaris below, there is enclosed a triangular tunnel, the tunnel of Corti ; this tunnel increases both in height and width on passing towards the apex of the cochlea. The inner rods number nearly 6000, and the head of each resembles somewhat the upper end of the idna, presenting a deep concaA'ity, externally, for the reception of a corresponding convexity on the head of the outer rod. The part of the head which overhangs this concavity is prolonged out- wards, under the name of the head plate, and overlaps the head of the outer rod. The expanded bases of the inner rods are situated on the innermost portion of the membrana basilaris, immediately to the outer side of the foramina nervosa of the labium tympanicum. The intermediate parts of the inner rods are sinuously curved, and form, with the mem- brana basilaris, an angle of about 60\ The outer rods number about 4000, and are longer 46 Fig. 527.—Transveksb Section through Outer Wall of Ductus Cochleaeis (Schwalbe).