561 THE ARACHNOIDEA. Pia mater Arachnoid mater Dura mater- Posterior primary division Anterior primary division Posterior nerve-root Ligamentum denticulatiim Anterior nerve-root Posterior nerve-root Anterior nerve-root Anterior nerve-root Ligamentum denticulatum Lateral column of cord Pacchionian Bodies (granulationes arachnoidales).—When the surface of the dura mater is inspected after the removal of the calvaria, a number of small fleshy- looking excrescences, purplish-red in colour, are seen ranged in clusters on either side of the superior longitudinal sinus, and when this sinus is opened they are also observed protrud- ing in considerable numljers into its in- terior. These are the Pacchionian bodies, and they are also found in smaller number and distinctly smaller size in con- nexion with other blood sinuses, such as the lateral sinus, the straight sinus, and the cavernous sinus. At first sight they appear to belong to the dura mater, but in reality they are projections from the arachnoidea. In the child they are exceed- ingly small and rudi- mentary, and it is only as life advances that they become large and conspicuous. Each Pacchionian body is a bulbous protrusion of the arachnoid membrane. It is attached to the arachnoidea by a narrow pedicle, and into its interior is pro- longed through this a continuation of the sulmrachnoid space and its characteristic meshwork. The Pacchionian bodies do not pierce the dura mater. As they push their way into a blood- sinus they carry before them a thin covering continuous with the sinus wall. On either side of the superior longitudinal sinus there are a number of irregular spaces in the dura mater which com- municate with the sinus either by a small aperture or a narrow channel. These spaces are called the parasinoidal sinuses or the lacunae laterales, and certain of the meningeal veins and some of the diploic veins open into them. Pacchionian bodies push themselves into the parasinoidal sinuses from below in such a manner that they receive a complete covering from the layer of dura mater which forms 36 Pia mater Posterior nerve-root Spinal ganglion Posterior primary division Anterior primary division Anterior nerve-root Spinal cord Fig. 415.—Membranes of the Spinal Cord, and the Relations they PRESENT to the Spinal Nerve-Roots (A. M. Paterson). Pacchionian body Mouth of a vein ^ . • IJone Fig. 416.—Mesial Section through the Cranial Vault in the Frontal Region. Displays the superior longitudinal siuus and tlie Paccliioiiiaii bodies protruding into it (enlarged).