351 THE MUSCLES ON THE BACK OF THE THIGH. The united heads assist in forming the outer Gracilis Adductor magmi Semitendinosi t SlSMIMEMBRANOSr: a,/ Pyriformis Obturator internus and UEMELLI Obturator externus Gluteus MAXIMUS QUADRATUS FEMORIS - Great sciatic nerve iDDUCTOR IAGNUS HicErs (long liead) I^icei's (short liead) the origins of the semimembranosus and quadratus femoris, the adductor magnus, and the short head of the muscle, boundary of the popliteal space, and partially conceal the outer head of the gastrocnemius. The short head may be absent: there may be an additional origin from ischium or femur; and the long head may send a slip to the gastrocnemius or tendo Achillis (tensor fascite suralis). The semitendinosus arises, in common with the long head of the biceps, from the lower and inner facet upon the ischial tuberosity. Separating from the common tendon after a course of two or three inches, the muscle forms a long narrow band which becomes tendinous in the middle third of the thigh. Passing over the inner side of the knee, it spreads out and becomes membranous, and is inserted into the inner side of the shaft of the tibia just below the internal tuber- osity, below the gracilis and behind the sartorius. A bursa separates it from the sartorius in front, and another, common to it and the gracilis, lies beneath its insertion. The origin of the muscle is concealed by the gluteus maximus. In the back of the thigh it is super- ficial to the semimembranosus ; and at the inner side of the knee the tendon lies behind that of the gracilis. It forms one of the inner boundaries of the popliteal space. The belly of the muscle is anarked by an oblique septal intersection about its middle. The semimembranosus arises by a tendon from the upper and outer facet on the ischial tuberosity. In the upper third of the thigh the tendon gives place to a rounded fieshy belly, which, becoming ten- dinous at the back of the knee, is inserted mainly into the horizontal groove on the back of the inner tuberosity of the tibia. A bursa lies beneath the tendon at its insertion. It has three additional membranous insertions: (1) a fascial band extends downwards and inwards to join the posterior border of the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint; (2) another fascial band extends downwards and outwards, forms the fascia covering the popliteus muscle, and is attached to the oblique line of the tibia; and (3) another band extends upwards and outwards to the back of the external condyle of the femur, forming the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. Sartorius tendon- J ibial nerve liicEPS tendon (along with peroneal nerve) Plantaris ^Gastro- cnemius FiQ. 258.—The Muscles on the Back of thu Thigh.