THE CHAMBEKS OF THE HEAKT. 743 The Eustachian valve (valvula veuse cavte inferioris) is a thin aucl sometimes fenestrated fold of endocardium and sub-endocardial tissue, which extends from the anterior and lower margin of the orifice of the inferior vena cava to the anterior part of the annulus ovalis. Varying very much in size, it is usually of falciform shape, its apex being attached to the annulus and its base to the margin of the inferior caval orifice. It is an important structure in the foetus, directing the blood from the inferior vena cava through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. The Thebesian valve (valvula sinus coronarii) is usually a single fold of endo- cardium which is placed at the orifice of the coronary sinus; occasionally it con- sists of two cusps. It is almost invariably incompetent. The left auricle (atrium sinistrum) is in relation behind with the descending thoracic aorta and the oesophagus. Below and in front it is continuous with the left ventricle. Its antero-superior surface is concave, and lies in close relation to the roots of the ascending aorta, the pulmonary artery, and the left coronary artery. Its right side, formed by the interauricular septum, is directed forwards and to the right. Its left side forms a very small portion of the left margin of the heart, and from its junction with the antero-superior surface the long and narrow Left anterior cusp oi_ pulmonary valve Left posterior cusj) of pulmonary valve Left posterior cusp of aortic valve Left coronary artery Anterior cusp of K^/ mitral valve Posterior cusp nl mitral val\ Left ventricle Conus arteriosus Right anterior cusp of pulmonary valve —• Right coronary artery Anterior cusp of aortic valve Right posterior cusp of aortic valve Anterior (infundibular) cusp of tricuspid valve Right (marginal) cusp of tricuspid valve Posterior (septal) cusp of tricuspid valve Right ventricle Fjg. 549.- -Thb Bases of the Ventricles of the Heart, showing the auriculo-ventricular, aortic, and pulmonary orifloes and their valves. auricular appendix is prolonged forwards round the left side of the ascending- portion of the aorta and the trunk of the pulmonary artery. The four pulmonary veins enter the upper part of the posterior surface, two on each side. The interior of the left auricle is lined with endocardium, and its walls are smooth, except in the auricular appendix where musculi pectinati are present, and on the septum, in a position corresponding with the upper part of the fossa ovalis oh the right side, where there are several musculo-fibrous bundles radiating for- wards and upwards. These septal bundles are separated at their bases by small semilunar depressions, in the largest of which remains of the foramen ovale may be found. Foramina Thebesii, and the apertures of vense minimi cordis, are scat- tered irregularly over the inner aspect, whilst in the antero-inferior boundary is the auriculo-ventricular aperture. This is oval in form; its long axis is placed obhquely from before backwards, and from left to right, and is capable of admitting two fingers. It is guarded by a valve formed of two large cusps, and is known as the mitral orifice. Ventricles.—The ventricular portion of the heart is conical and somewhat flattened. The base, directed upwards and backwards, is partly continuous with the auricular portion and partly free. It is perforated by four orifices, the two auriculo-ventricular, the aortic, and the pulmonary. The auriculo-ventricular