1148 UKOdENITAL SYSTEM. nipple only is ])resent it is usually the left. The presence of supernumerary glands or nipples is not so unconiiuon, and a very large nuniber of examples are recorded. The term polymasty has heen a^^jilied to cases in \vhich more than the normal number of mamnuE are present, and poly- thely to those in which additional glands, in a rudimentary condition, are represented by accessory nipjiles. Usually the accessory glands, or nipples, are present on the ventral aspect of the thorax, and in most instances they occur below and a little to the inner side of the normal site. When the abnormal glands are found above the normal site they generally lie further from the middle line. Much nioi'e rarely accessory glands have Ijeen found on the abdomen, in the axilla, or in some other situation, including even the dorsal aspect of the trunk. As jnany as three extra pairs of mammas have lieen found in the same individual, and cases in which the jirobable representa- tives of mammary glands were even more numeroushave l)een recorded. Asymmetry is very common in these abnormal structures. It is interesting to note that examples of polymasty and polythely occur in the male almost as fretpiently as in the female. In some women the accessory breasts have yielded milk during lactation ; in other cases the abnormal organs have been very rudi- mentary, and represented only by a minute nipple or iiigmented areola. These cases of poly- masty and i)olythely are su])posed to represent a reversion to an ancestral condition, in whicli more than two mammary glands were normally present, and in which probably many young wer produced at each birth. In this connexion it is interesting to observe that usually the accessory glands occur in po-sitions normally occujjied by mammas in lower animals. In the course of development of the mammary glands in man, specialised areas of the epidermis, similar to those which give origin to the mammary glands, have been observed both above and below the region in which the adult mannnary gland.s are developed. These areas appear to be pressent normally, but in most cases they disappear at an early stage in the history of the embryo. In some other mammals rudimentary mammary glands may occur, as, for instance, in lemurs and in some cows. A slight functional activity of the mammary glands of the male at Itirtli and about the time of puberty is n(jt a very uncommon occurrence. Vessels and Nerves of the Mamma.—The l)reast receives its arterial supply from the per- foiatiug branches of the internal mammary artery and from the external mammary branch of the long thoracic. Additional supj)ly is sometimes derived from some of the intercostal vessels. The veins coming fi'oin the gland ])our their blood into the axillary and internal mammary veins. Some small superficial veins from the Ijreast join triljutaries of the external jugulai-. The lymphatics of the breast are very numerous, and form extensive lymph spaces round alveoli of the gland. The lymphatic vessels coming from the mamma for the most part join the lymphatic glands of the axilla, but some vessels from the inner part of the breast, following the course ])ur- sued by the perforating arteries, join the lymphatic glands situated along the course of the internal mammary artery. The nerve sujiply of the gland is derived from the intercostal nerves of the fourth, fifth, and sixth intercostal sjjaces. Along the course of these nerves sympathetic filaments reach the breast from the dorsal part of the sympathetic cord. DEVELOPMENT OF THE MAMM^. The mammary glands are developed as downgrowths of the epidermis into the under- lying mesobhxstic tissue. In the human embryo a thickened raised area of the epidermis is to be recognised in the region of the future mammary gland at the end of the fourth week. This thickened epiblast becomes depressed in the underlying mesoblast, and thus the mammary area soon becomes flat, and finally sunk below the level of the suiTounding epidermis. The mesoblast, where it is in contact with this downgrowtli of the epiblast, is compressed, and its elements become arranged in concentric layers, which at a later stage give rise to the connective-tissue stroma of the gland. The depressed mass of epi- blastic cells soon becomes somewhat flask-shaped, and grows out into the surrounding mesoblast as a n^imber of solid processes, which represent the future ducts of the gland. These processes, by dividing and branching, give rise to the future lobes and lobules, and much later to the alveoli. The mammary ai-ea becomes gradually raised again in its central part to form the nipple. A lumen is only formed in the different parts of this branching system of cellular processes at birth, and with its establishment is associated the secretion of a fluid resembling milk, which often takes place at this time. The ampullae appear as thickenings on the developing ducts before birth. In those animals which possess a number of mammary glands—such as the cat, pig, etc.—the thickening of the epiblast, which is the first indication of the development of these structures, takes the form of a pair of ridges extending from the level of the fore- limb towards the inguinal region. These converge posteriorly, and at their terminations lie not far from the middle line. By the absorption of the intermediate portions the ridges become divided up into a niunber of isolated areas, in connection with which the future glands arise. Such linear thickenings of the epiblast have not yet been shown to occur in the human embryo, but the usual positions assumed by the accessory glands when present, leads one to suspect that in all probability the aficcstors of man possessed numerous mammary glands ari'anged, as in lower animals, in lines converging when traced towards the inguinal region.