932 THE EESPIRATOEY SYSTEM. it cuts across the eleventh rib and reaches the twelfth rib. The relation which it presents to the twelfth rib varies in accordance with the length of that rib. When the last rib is not abnormally short the pleura clothes its inner half, and the line of reflection falls below this portion of the rib so as to reach the spine midway between the head of the last rib and the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra (Fig. 631). Here, therefore, the line of diaphragmatic reflection falls below the lower border of the thoracic wall, and this is a point of high practical importance. In operations upon the kidney the incision cannot be carried above the level of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra and the ligamentum arcuatum externum without the risk of wounding the pleura. On the right side tlie line of diaphragmatic pleural reflection diff'ers from that on the left chiefly in front (Fig. 629, p. 929). Here it descends to a lower level. Thus it pro- ceeds outwards and downwards from the back of the ensiform cartilage along the posterior aspect of the ascending part of the seventh costal cartilage, and it passes beneath the eighth costal arch, as a rule, at the same point as on the left side, viz. at the junction of its cartilaginous and bony parts. From this backwards to the spine the relations are so similar to those of the left side that a separate description is unnecessary. It is commonly stated that the left pleural sac reaches a lower level than the right. In certain cases there is no doubt that it does, but this condition is by no means the rule. In those cases where the two pleural sacs do not reach the same level at their lowest points, it is sometimes the right and sometimes the left pleura which oversteps the mark. As already stated, the lowest point to which the pleura descends is usually found, on both sides, in the mid-lateral line where the dia23hragmatic reflection-line crosses the tenth rib or the tenth intercostal space. This point can be very readily ascertained on the surface by drawing a horizontal line round the trunk at the level of the lower part of the extremity of the spinous process of the first lumbar vertebra, and noting where it is intersected by the mid-lateral line. In the majority of cases the point of intersection will correspond with the lowest part of the pleural sac. Another horizontal line opposite the spine of the last dorsal vertebra will give the level of the diaphragmatic pleural reflection in the mammillary line.^ Along the line of the diaphragmatic reflection a strong fascia jjasses from the lower uncovered part of the diaphragm, and from the costal cartilages to the surface of the costal pleura, so as to hold it firmly in its place. It may be termed the phrenico- pleural fascia. MEDIASTINAL OR INTERPLEUEAL SPACE. The term mediastiual space is applied to the interval between the mediastinal portions of the two pleural sacs. In front it is bounded by the sternum, and loehind by the vertebral column. It is customary to subdivide this space in a purely arbitrary manner into four portions, termed respectively superior, anterior, middle, and posterior, according to the relations which they present to the pericardium. The superior mediastinum is the part of the general space which lies above the level of the pericardium. Its boundaries are the following :—In front, the manu- brium sterni, to the posterior aspect of which are the attached lower ends of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-hyoid muscles; behind, the bodies of the upper four dorsal vertebrse ; helow, an imaginary and oblique plane, which extends from the lower border of the manubrium sterni backwards and upwards to the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra ; laterally, the mediastinal pleura. Within the superior mediastinal space are placed (1) the aortic arch and the three great arteries which spring from it; (2) the innominate veins and the upper- part of the superior vena cava ; (3) the trachea, gullet, and thoracic duct; (4) the phrenic, pneumogastric, left recurrent laryngeal and cardiac nerves; (5) the thymus gland. The middle mediastinum is the wide part of the space which contains the pericardium, and lies below the superior mediastinum. In addition to the peri- cardium and its contents the middle mediastinum contains the phrenic nerves and their accompanying vessels. 1 The above description represents the average results which have been obtained from the study of the pleura in a large number of subjects, eight of which were specially liardencd by formalin or other re-agents for tlie purpose. For many of the dissections I have to thank my former assistant Dr. H. St. J. Brooks, and for others I am indebted to my present assistant Dr. C. J. Patten.