THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 412 The ischio-COCCygeus is a rudimentary muscle overlapping the posterior border of the levator ani. It arises from the ischial spine and the small sacro-sciatic ligament, and is inserted into the sides of the lower two sacral and upper two coccygeal vertebne. The muscle is separated from the rectum by the visceral pelvic fascia, and is in contact externally with the sacro-sciatic ligaments. Nerve Supply. The levator ani is snpjtlied hy two nerves: hy the perineal (nmscular) liranches of the puclic nerve, and, on its ])elvic surface, by special branches from the third and fourth saci'al nerves. Tile ischio-coccygeus is supplied on its jJelvic siu'lace Ijy the third and fourth sacral nerves. Actions. (1) The levator ani and ischio-coccygeus serve to uphold and slightly raise the pelvic floor. (2) They are likewise cajjable of producing slight flexion of the coccyx. (3) The anterior fibres of the levator ani, in the female, sweeping round the vagina, compress its walls laterally, and along with the sphincter vaginte, help to voluntarily diminish the lumen of the tul)e. (4) The same part of the muscle in the male elevates the prostate gland (levator prcistatse). (5) The chief action of the levator ani is in defw.cation. Along with the external sphincter it acts as a sphincter of the rectum, closing the anal canal. During dei'iecation the muscle draws upwards the anus over the fiEcal mass, and so a.ssists in its cxi)ulsi(m. (6) In parturition, in the same way, the muscle, contracting l)elow the descending foetal head, retards delivery. Contracting on the i'octal head, it draws upwards the pelvic floor over the foetus, and so assists delivery. THE DEVELOPMENT AND MORPHOLOGY OF THE SKELETAL MUSCLES. Our knowledge of the development and morphology of the muscular system is very incomplete. It has already been shown, in the chapter on general embryology, that the Fig. 307. Scheme to Illustrate THE Disposition of the Myotomes in the Em- bryo IN Relation to the Head, Trunk, and Limbs. A, B, C, First three cephalic myotomes ; N, 1, 2, .3, 4, Last persisting ceplialic myotomes ; C, T., L., S., Co., Tlie myotomes of the cervical, thoracic, lumbar, sacra], and caudal regions; L, IL, IIL, IV., v., VL, VIL, VIIL, IX., X., XI., XII., refer to the craui.al nerves and the structures with wliich they may be embryologically associ- ated. mesoblast ou cither side of the embryonic medullary tube separates into three main parts— the myotome, nephrotome, and lateral plates (somatopleure and splanchuopleure). The myotomes are jn'obably directly or indirectlj' the source of the striated muscles of the whole body. Each consists at first of a quadrilateral bilaminar mass, resting