1065 THE LIVER. to the right, from the middle. of the longitudinal fissure, between the quadrate lobe in front and the caudate and Spigelian l<jl)es l)ehiud (Fig. 716). Through it the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic plexus of nerves enter, and the hepatic ducts and lymphatic vessels leave, the liver, whilst around its margins are attached the two layer.s of the lesser omentum. The lissure itself is filled, between the entering and issuing vessels, by a loose connective tissue known as Glisson's capsule, which ;^sses with the portal vein into the liver substance. When tlie liver is in tlie l)ody, or when liardened l)efore removal, tliese three fissures, instead of apjiearing as wide, shallow depressions, have the form of narro^\■ clefts, with a depth of three- quarters to one inch (18-2.5 mm.), or even more—a form which results from the folding together of the jxjrtions of the liver Vioundiug these fissures. (4) The fossa of the gall-bladder (fossa vesicae felleee) is a slight depression which begins (often as a notch) at or near the inferior border of the liver, and runs Ijackwards and to the left, as far as the portal fissure (Fig. 716), separating the quadrate from the rest of the right lol)e. Its surface is uncovered by peritoneum as a rule, and in it lies the gall-l)ladder—the two being united I)y areolar tissue. (5) The fossa of the vena cava (fossa vente cavte) is a deep groove, on the back of the liver, between the Spigelian and right lobes, in which the upper part of the inferior vena cava is emliedded, immediately before it pierces the diaphragm. It has been already descriljed in connexion with the posterior area of the parietal surface of the liver, page 1061. The depressions for the gall-bladder and the vena cava are called, almost indiscriminately, fissures or fossse. In liardened sjiecimens, it will be seen that only three are really fissure or crevice-like, namely, the umbilical fissure, the portal fissure, and the fissure of the ductus venesus : the remaining two are rather of the nature of fossai. Lobes of the Liver.—The liver is divisible into two chief lobes, right and left, which are separated l)y the attachment of the falciform ligament al)0ve and in front, and by the two parts of the longitudinal fissure below and behind. The right lobe forms about four-hfths of the mass of the liver, and on it three secondary lobes— the qtiadrate, Spigelian, and caudate, already sufficiently descril)ed—are marked off by the live fissures referred to in the preceding paragraphs. The left lobe is much smaller and more flattened than the right, and, as a ride, it projects one or two inches (2-5 to 5'0 cm.) to the right of the middle line. The details of these lobes have been already given in connexion with the sitrfaces of the liver.. Peritoneal Relations of the Liver.—With the exception of (1) the uncovered area at the back of the right lobe, (2) a small triangular space on the parietal surface, where the two layers of the falciform ligament separate posteriorly, and (3) usually, but not invariably, the fossa of the gall-bladder, the liver is completely covered by peritoneum. The covering of the caudate and Spigelian lobes is derived from the small sac, that of the rest of the organ from the great sac of the peritoneum. The peritoneum of the anterior abdominal wall passes liack on the under surface of the diaphragm, whence it is reflected on to the upper aspect of the liver, but the line of reflection is broken by a fold running down at right angles from its middle to the rmibili- cal notch ; this is the falciform ligament already referred to. The portion of the reflection to the right of this fold forms the upper layer of the coronary ligament, that to the left forms the upper layer of the left lateral ligament. Having thus reached the liver from the diaphragm the peritoneum jmsses forwards, clothing its parietal surface as far as the anterior margin, around which it turns to gain tlie lower or visceral surface. This it also covers as far back as the portal fissure and the fissure of the ductus venosus (Fig. 716), from which it descends to the stomach as the anterior layer of the lesser omentum. As regards the covering derived from the small sac :—Its peritoneum passes in through the foi'amen of W'inslow, which is placed immediately beneath the caudate lobe, and thus it clothes this lobe (Fig. 716). Then turning upwards it expands over the Spigelian lobe, clothing its two surfaces. From the right margin of the Spigelian lobe it is rellected to the diaphragm, here