THE (ESOrHAGUS. 989 it has rather the appearance of a soKd muscular rod or hand than of a hollow tube. The oesophagus presents two distinct cow- striciions, one situated at its Ijeginuing, the other at the point where it is crossed by the left bronchus. Both constrictions are of the same size, and will admit without injury an instrument with a maximum diameter of i inch (20 mm.). At each of these points the tulje is flattened from before backwards. The oesophagus varies iu length in different in(li^'idnals, from 8 to 14 inches (20 to 35 mm.). The distance from the npper incisors to the be- ginning of the oesophagus averages ahout 6 inches (15 cm.). During life the cervical portion is said, under ordinary circumstances, to be closed and flattened from before backwards by outside pressure, whilst the thoracic portion may be ojien owing to the negative pressure in the tliorax. The passage into the stomach is also said to be open (Mickulicz), but t ins is doubtful. The size at the two constrictions, when the tube is fully distended, is 23 mm. transversely, and 17 mm. antero-j)Osteriorly. The other parts vary in diameter between 26 and 30 mm. (Jonnesco). In its first curvature to tlie left the divergence is greatest opposite tlie third dorsal vertebra. The second inclination to this side begins about the seventh dorsal vertebra, and continues to the end of the oesophagus, being considerably increased as the (lia])hragm is approached. Relations of the CBsophagus. — The relations (Eig. 666) differ so widely in the neck and thorax that they must be described separately for each of these regions. \ In the neck.—In front lies the trachea— to the posterior membranous wall of which the oesophagus is loosely connected by areolar tissue—and in the groove at each side, between the two, the recurrent laryn- geal nerve ascends to the larynx (Fig. 666, A). Behind lie the vertebral column and the k)ngus colli muscles, from which the oeso- phagus is separated by the prevertebral layer of the cervical fascia. At the sides are placed the carotid sheaths with their contained vessels, and the lateral lobes of the thyroid l)ody. Owing to the deviation of the tube to the left in the lower part of the neck, its relation to the carotid sheath and thyroid ))ody is much more intimate on this than on the right side. In the thorax. — The oesophagus passes successively through the superior and pos- terior mediastina, in the former lying close to the vertebral column, but in the latter advancing somewhat into the thoracic cavity and coming into contact with the back of the pericardium. The trachea still lies in front as far as its bifurcation. Immediately is.T DORSAL V. Fig. A is at level of the upper part Lst dorsal vertebra, and shows the chief relations of the I esophagus in the neck and also its diver- gence to the left. Fig. B, at the 3rd dorsal verte- bra,' shows the thoracic duct lying on left side of the ceso- pliagus. 3''.'' DORSAL V. In Fig. C, at the level of the .5th dorsal vertebra,, the left bron- chus is seen iu relation to the front of the tesophagus. Fig. D is at level of sth'dorsal vertebra, and shows the peri- cardium lying on front of oeso-. phagns. Fig. E, at flth dorsal vertebra, shows the tesu- phagus inclin- ing to the left just before piercing the diaphragm.. , 9''." D0R5.AL V. Fio. 666.—Tracings from Frozen Sections to SHOW THE Relations op the (Esophaous at the levels of the 1st, 3rd, 5th, 8th, and 9th dorsal vertebrse respectively. A, Aorta ; C, Common carotid artery ; D, Diaphragm ; L.B, Left bronchus ; L.C, Left subclavian artery ; L. R, Left recm-rent nerve : L.V, Left vagus ; (")e, CEsophagus ; P, Pleura; Pc, Pericardium; K. B, Right bronchus; R.R, Right recurrent nerve; R.V, Right vagus; T, Trachea; T.U, Thoracic duct; V.A, Vena azygos major.