121 THE SPHENOID BONE. side of the spine the course of the chorda tympani nerve is indicated by a groove (Lucas). The second fifth of the convex border of the crescent is fused to the side of the body and united below with the root of the pterygoid process. The angle formed by the union of the great wing with the side of the body posteriorly corre- sponds to the hinder end of the carotid groove, the outer lip of which is formed by a projecting lamina called the lingula. The remaining three-fifths of the convex border is divisible into two nearly equal parts; the inner is a free, curved, sharp margin, which forms the inferior margin of the sphenoidal fissure (fissura orbitalis superior), the cleft which separates the great wing from the lesser wing, and which establishes a wide channel of communication between the middle cranial fossa and the cavity of the orbit, transmitting the third, fourth, ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth cranial nerves, together with the ophthalmic veins. Wide of the sphenoidal fissure this edge becomes broad and serrated, articulating with the frontal bone internally, and at the part corresponding to the anterior horn of the crescent, by a surface of variable width, it unites with the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. The external border corresponds to the concave side of the crescent, and is serrated for articulation with the squamous temporal, being thin and bevelled at the expense of its outer surface above and externally, and broad and thick behind as it passes towards the alar spine. The superior or verehral surface is concave from behind forwards, and in its fore part from side to side also; it forms a considerable part of the floor of the middle cranial fossa, and bears the impress of the convolutions of the extremity of the temporal lobe of the cerebrum which rests upon it; towards its outer side it is grooved obliquely by an anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery. The following foramina pierce the great wing: close to and in front of the alar spine is the foramen spinosum for the transmission of the middle meningeal artery and its companion vein, together with a recurrent branch from the third division of the V. nerve. In front of and internal to this, and close to the posterior free border, is the foramen ovale, of large size and elongated form. This gives passage to the motor root and inferior sensory division of the V. nerve, and admits the small meningeal branch of the middle meningeal artery; a small emissary vein from the cavernous sinus usually passes through this foramen and occasionally also the small superficial petrosal nerve. Near the fore part of the root of the great wing, and just below the sphenoidal fissure, is the foramen rotundum, of smaller size and circular form. Through this the second division of the V. nerve escapes from the cranium. Occasionally there is a small canal—the foramen of Vesalius—which pierces the root of the great wing to the inner side of the foramen ovale. This opens below into the scaphoid fossa at the base of the internal pterygoid plate, and transmits a small vein. Occasionally there is a small foramen (canaliculus innominatus) to the inner side of the foramen spinosum for the transmission of the small superficial petrosal nerve. The outer surface of the great wing is divided into three well-marked areas; of these the upper two are separated by an oblique jagged ridge, the malar crest (margo zygomaticus), for articulation with the orbital process of the malar bone. The lower part of this ridge may occasionally articulate with the malar process of the superior maxilla. Of these two areas the orbital (facies orbitalis) is directed forwards and a little inwards; of quadrilateral shape, it forms the back and outer wall of the orbit; plane and smooth, it is bounded behind by the sharp inferior free margin of the sphenoidal fissure, towards the inner extremity of which a pointed spine for the attachment of the inferior common ligament of origin of the ocular muscles can usually be seen. It is limited superiorly by the edge of a rough triangular area which articulates with the frontal bone ; anteriorly by the malar crest; whilst inferiorly a free, well-defined horizontal margin constitutes the posterior and external boundary of the spheno-maxillary fissure (fissura orbitalis inferior), which separates this part of the bone from the orbital plate of the superior maxilla. Below this border there is a grooved surface which leads inwards toward the orifice of the foramen rotundum. In the articulated skull this forms part of the posterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa. To the outer side of the malar crest, which bounds it in front, is the temporal