1175 THE FACE. anterior part of the middle turbinal is seen when the patient's head is thrown well back ; betw^een it and the septum is a sht-like interval [olfactory cleft). By rotat- ing the patient's head towards the corresponding shoulder the anterior part of the middle meatus is brought into view; pus in this situation may originate from tlie frontal, the anterior ethmoidal, or the maxillary sinuses, all of which open into the hiatus semilunaris of the middle meatiis (Fig. 490). To make a satisfactory digital exploration of the anterior part of the nasal cavities, it is necessary to divide the columella and the cartilaginous septum with a strong pair of scissors, one blade being introduced into each nostril (Kocher); lilood spurts from the small arteries of the septum, but the bleeding soon ceases. When these vessels, which are derived from the superior coronary arteries, are the source of the haemorrhage in epistaxis, the bleeding can be arrested either by com- pressing the coronary arteries, by plugging the anterior nares, or by grasping the cartilaginous part of the nose firmly between the finger and thumb. The maxillary sinus or antrum of Highmore, situated in the upper jaw, is a pyramidal cavity with its base formed by the outer wall of the nose and its apex directed towards the malar bone (Fig. 121). The cavity is lined by a thin muco- periosteal membrane, easily separable from the bone; in the mucous layer are numerous mucous glands from which cysts may develop. The floor of the antrum, which is normally on a level with the floor of the nose, is separated from the roots of the bicuspid and molar teeth by a plate of bone of varying thickness. When this plate is thin and devoid of spongiosa, the floor of the antrum sinks below the level of the floor of the nose, and suppuration at the roots of one of the teeth above mentioned is in these circumstances very liable to extend to the antrum. In an antrum of average dimensions the line of union of the nasal and facial walls of the cavity corresponds externally to the outer edge of the canine ridge (Logan Turner). The antral orifice is situated at the highest part of the antrum, and is therefore unfavourably placed for natural drainage; it opens into the posterior and lower part of the infundibulum which, in its turn, communicates with the middle meatus of the nose through the hiatus semilunaris. In old age there is frequently a second communication between the antrum and middle meatus, the opening being situated behind and below the normal orifice; when this accessory osteum exists pus from the antrum may drain backwards into the naso-pharynx (Logan Turner). In empyema of the antrum the opening to evacuate and drain the cavity may be made (1) through the alveolus of the second bicuspid or of the first or second molar tooth, the first molar being the site of election; (2) through the canine fossa, external to the prominence caused by the root of the canine tooth ; or (3) through the outer wall of the inferior meatus of the nose. Lips.—In compressing the coronary arteries, it must be remembered that they run beneath the mucous surface of the lips a short distance from their free margins. The lips are abundantly supplied with mucous glands which can be felt immediately beneath the miicous membrane nearer their attached than their free borders; the glands are a frequent source of mucous cysts; occasionally they are enlarged congenitally, giving rise to one form of hypertrophy of the lip. Hare-lip is due to failure of the union of the internal nasal subdivision of the fronto-nasal process with the maxillary process. The deformity is spoken of as complete or incomplete according as the cleft extends into the nostril or merely involves a portion of the lip. The fissure may involve the lip only, or it may include the alveolar process of tlie jaw; in the latter case the cleft may or may not be associated with a cleft of the_ palate. Lastly, the hare-lip may be single or double, according as the deficiency has occurred on one (usually the left) or both sides; in the latter case the central portion of the lip and the premaxillfe project more or less markedly from the nasal septum. Teeth.—The milk teeth begin to appear from the sixth to the eighth month, the first to emerge being the lower central incisors. The first dentition is completed about the thirtieth month. Delayed dentition is generally due to rickets. Of the permanent set the first to erupt are the first molars, which appear at the end of the sixth or seventh year; the third molars (wisdom teeth), the last to appear, may erupt any time between the eighteenth and the twenty-fifth year, or evon latcu-.