THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. GIO The external terminal branch of the inusculo-cutaueous nerve descends over the anterior annular ligament, and after supplying branches to the lower part of the leg and the dorsum of the foot, divides into two parts, internal and external, which, passing to the intervals between the third and fourth, and fourth and fifth toes respectively, divide into dorsal digital branches for the adjacent sides of these toes. Tliese branches communicate witli offsets of the external saphenous nerve. The arrangement of the cutaneou.s Ijranches of tlie nuiscnlo-cutaneous is liable to considerable variation. Tlie nerve to the adjacent sides of the second and third toes may come from the outer division of the nerve, whicli, again, is not unfrec]iiently mucli reduced in size, in wliich case the external saphenous nerve takes its }>hice on the dorsiuii of the foot, often supplying as many as two and a lialf toes mi the outer side. The cutaneous nerves on the doi'sum of the toes from the anterior til)ial and musculo-cutaneous nerves are much smaller than tlie corresponding jdantar digital nerves. They are reinforced on the dorsum of the terminal phalanges hy twigs from the plantar nerves, which supply the tips of the toes and nails. Tibial Nerve. The tibial or internal popliteal nerve (n. tibialis) arises from the front of the sacral plexus, usually from the fourth and fifth lumbar and first three sacral nerves (Fig. 44G, p. Gi4). It is incorporated in the great sciatic trunk in the buttock and upper part of the thigh. At the bifurcation of this nerve it passes directly downwards through the popliteal space, and enters the back of the leg at the lower border of the popliteus muscle. The part of the nerve from its origin from the plexus or the bifurcation of the great sciatic nerve to the lower border of the popliteus muscle is sometimes called internal popliteal; the part of the nerve in the back of the leg being then designated posterior tibial. In the popliteal space it is concealed at "first by the semimembranosus and other hamstring mitscles. It afterwards lies beneath the gastrocnemius and plantaris muscles, and in its course it crosses the popliteal vessels from without inwards, so as to lie below upon the popliteus muscle. In the back of the leg, from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the. ankle, the tibial (or posterior tibial) nerve lies on the tibialis posticus muscle and the tibia, and, along with the posterior tibial vessels, occupies a sheatli in the intermuscular septum separating the superficial and deep muscles of the back of the leg. In the upper part of the leg it is internal to the vessels, but, crossing over them, it lies on their outer side in the lower portion of its course. The nerve terminates beneath the internal annular ligament by dividing into the external and internal plantar nerves. The collateral branches may be divided into three sets:— (a) Brandies arising from the Roots or I'runk of the Nerve wldle it is incor- porated with the Great Sciatic Nerve.—These have been already described, viz. muscular branches to the quadratus femoris, gemelli, obturator internus, and the hamstring muscles, and an articular branch to the hip-joint (Eig. 446, p. G14). (b) Branches arising in the Popliteal Space abore the Knee-Joint.—These are in three sets—articular, muscular, cutaneous. 1. The articular branches are slender nerves, variable in number. There are usually two, an azygos branch which pierces the posterior ligament of the knee joint, and an internal branch, a long fine nerve which, crossing tlie popliteal vessels, descends on the inner side of the space to accompany the lower internal articular artery to the knee-joint. In its course it gives off a branch which accompanies the upper internal articular artery. It is often absent. 2. The muscular branches are five in number. Nerves for the two heads of the gastrocnemius and plantaris enter the muscles at the borders of the popliteal space. A nerve for the soleus enters the superficial surface of the muscle. A nerve for the popliteus muscle passes over the surface of that muscle, and after winding round its lower border, supplies it on its deep (anterior) surface. As this nerve passes beneath the popliteus it supplies branches to the tibialis posticus muscle, an interosseous branch for the interosseous membrane, which can be traced as far as the lower tibio-fibular articulation, an articular branch for the upper tibio-fibular joint, and a medullary branch for the shaft of the tibia. 3. The cutaneous branch is the tibial communicating nerve (n. communicans