158 OSTEOLOGY. groove are lodged the aforementioned vessels and nerves. The surface of the palate in front of the transverse suture is rough, pitted for the palatine glands, and pierced by numerous small vascular foramina ; the part of the palate behind the suture, formed liy the under surface of the horizontal plate of the palate bone, is much smoother. From this there rises, just posterior to the orifice of the posterior palatine canal, a thin sharp crest which curves inwards immediately in front of the posterior free edge; to this are attached some of the tendinous fibres of the tensor palati muscle. Pterygoid Processes.—Buttressed against the hinder extremities of the alveolar arch are the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid. If carefully examined, these will be seen not to lie in actual contact with the maxillae, but to be separated from them by the triangular wedge-shaped tuberosities (proc. pyramidales) of the palate bones. It is these latter which are pierced by the posterior and external accessory- palatine canals (foramina palatina minora) which lie just behind the posterior pala- tine canal, and through which pass the lesser palatine nerves. As here displayed, the pterygoid processes (processus pterygoidei) of the sphenoid lie on either side of the opening of the posterior nares; each consists of two plates, an internal (lamina medialis) and an external (lamina lateralis) ; the latter is the broader, and is directed backwards and slightly outwards. Its external surface has been already studied in connexion with the zygomatic fossa (p. 152). Internally it is separated from the inner pterygoid plate by the pterygoid fossa (fossa pterygoidea), wherein is lodged a considerable part of the internal pterygoid muscle. The floor of the fossa is formed in greater part by the coalescence of the two pterygoid plates; but at the level of the hard palate the tuberosity of the palate bone appears wedged in between the two plates, and so enters into the formation of the floor of the pterygoid fossa. The internal pterygoid plate separates the nasal from the pterygoid fossa; to the hinder edge of the internal pterygoid plate are attached the pharyngeal aponeurosis, the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and the palato- pharyngeus muscle. Above, the posterior border of this plate is channelled to form the small scaphoid fossa (fossa scaphoidea), which curves outwards over the summit of the pterygoid fossa, and furnishes a surface for the origin of the tensor palati muscle. The sharp inner margin of this fossa, continuous below with the posterior border of the internal pterygoid plate, extends upwards, and on either side of the body of the sphenoid forms a blunt pointed process, the pterygoid tubercle, which extends backwards towards the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone. Just external to this, and concealed by it, is the hinder extremity of the Vidian canal (canalis Vidianis), through which pass the Vidian vessels and nerve. The inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate is directed towards the nasal fossae. Superiorly this surface curves inwards to meet the under surface of the body of the sphenoid, forming on either side a lipped edge, the vaginal process (processus vaginalis), between which the alse of the vomer, which here forms the nasal septum, are wedged. Between the two a small interval, however, is occasionally left, which forms on either side the basi-pharyngeal canal. A little external to the line of union of the vaginal process with the vomer is the opening of the pterygo-palatine canal (canalis pharyngeus). This hes between the under surface of the vaginal process and the sphenoidal process of the palate bone, which here articulates with the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid. The pharyngeal branch of the spheno-palatine ganglion and the pterygo-palatine artery pass through this canal.. Inferiorly the pterygoid processes project below the level of the hard palate. The inner plate ends in a slender recurved process, called the hamular process (hamulus pterygoideus), which turns backwards and outwards ; this is frequently broken off in skulls which have been roughly handled. It reaches as low as the level of the alveolar margin, and lies just within and behind the posterior extremity of the alveolar process. It can readily be felt in the living by placing the finger against the soft palate behind and just within the gum around the root of the wisdom tooth. On the front of and below this process the tendon of the tensor palati muscle glides in a groove. The posterior nares (choance) lie within and between the pterygoid processes. Of a shape much resembling two Gothic windows, their bases or inferior boundaries are formed by the horizontal plates of the palate bone. Externally they are