THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF MOVEMENT AT JOINTS. 251 THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF MOVEMENT AT JOINTS. Eeference has already been made to the existence of fixed axes of movement as a basis for tlie classification of certain forms of diarthrodial joints. Hence it is evident that the movements which are possible at any particular joint depend to a large extent upon the shape of its articular surfaces as well as upon the nature of its various ligaments. Therefore the technical terms descriptive of movements either indicate the directions in which they occur, or else the character of the com- pleted movement. In the great majority of articulations between short bones, the amount of move- ment is so restricted, and the displacement of the opposing articular surfaces so slight, that the term gliding sufiiciently expresses its character. A gliding movement of an extensive kind, for example that of the patella upon the femur, in which the movement largely resembles that of the tyre of a wheel revolving in contact with the ground so that different parts are successively adaj)ted to each other, is called co-aptation. Articulations between long bones, on the other hand, are usually associated with a much freer range of movement, with a corresponding variety in its character. Rotation is a movement about an axis which is longitudinal. Sometimes it is the only form of movement which a joint possesses ; at other times it is merely one of a series of movements capable of execution at the same joint. Flexion or bending is a movement in which the formation of an angle between two parts of the body is an essential feature. As it is possible to perform this movement in relation to two axes, viz. a transverse and an antero-posterior axis, it is necessary to introduce qualifying terms. Thus, when two anterior or ventral surfaces are approximated, as at t])e hip-, elbow-, or wrist-joints, the movement is called ventral, anterior, or palmar flexion ; but if posterior or dorsal surfaces be approximated by the process of bending, then the flexion becomes posterior or dorsi-flexion, as at the knee- or wrist- joints. Further, at the wrist-joint, the formation of an angle between the ulnar border of the hand and the corresponding aspect of the forearm, produces ulnar flexion, and similarly the bending of the hand towards the radial border of the forearm is radial flexion. Extension or straightening consists in obliterating the angle which resulted from flexion. In the case of certain joints, therefore, such as the elbow, wrist, and knee, the segments of the limb occupy a straight Hne as regards each other when extended.^ At the ankle-joint the natural gttitude of the foot is flexion at a right angle to the leg. The diminution of this angle by ajDproximating the dorsum of the foot toAvards the front of the leg constitutes/exioM,; while any effort at placing the foot and leg in a straiglit line, i.e. obliteration of the angle, as in pointing the toes towards the ground and raising the heel, constitutes extension. Abduction is a term which either expresses movement of an entire limb, in a direction away from the mesial plane of the body, or of a digit, away from the plane of the middle finger in the hand, or the plane of the second toe in the case of the foot. Adduction is the reverse of the foregoing, and signifies movement towards the mesial plane of the body, or towards the planes indicated for the digits of the hand and foot. Circumduction is a movement peculiarly characteristic of multiaxial or ball- and-socket joints. It consists in combining such angular movements as flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction, so as to continue the one into the other, whereby the joint forms the apex of a cone of movement, and the free end of the limb travels through a circle which describes the base of this cone. THE DEVELOPMENT OF JOINTS. Just as the question of structure determines to a large extent the presence or absence of movement in joints, so in tracing their development it will be found that the ^ From this it will be seen that the term "over-extension" is not a correct expression, and conse- quently should not be employed.