1147 THE MAMMAEY GLANDS. also the areola increases in size and its glands become more marked. The nipple contains a considerable number of unstriped muscle fibres, and becomes firmer and more prominent as a result of mechanical stimulation. The size and appearance of the mammary glands vary much, not only in the different races of mankind, but also in the same individual under different conditions. In the young child the mammee are small, and there is little difference in the male and female. Their growth is slow until the approach of puberty, and then the female mammae increase rapidly in size. At each preg- nancy the mammee become large, and they attain their greatest development during lactation. The size of the mamma depends partly on the amount of superficial fat and partly on the amount of gland- ular tissue present. Structure of the Mamma. —The mamma is composed of a mass of glandular tissue tra- versed and supported by strands of fibrous connective tissue, and covered by a thick layer of fat. The glandular tissue, to which the term corpus mammae is applied, forms a somewhat conical mass whose apex corresponds to theposition of the nipple, while its base is loosely connected to the fascia covering the pectoralis major. In section the corpus mammae is readily distinguished from the surrounding fat by its firmer consistency and by its pinkish-white colour. The corpus mammae is composed of lobes and lobules, and its superficial aspect and edges are very uneven —the inequalities of its surface 1 )eing filled up by processes of the fatty tissue which forms a covering for the gland. This covering is incomplete beneath the areola, where it is pierced by the lactiferous ducts as they pass into the nipple. The gland is composed of fifteen to twenty lobes (lobi mammae) which radiate from the nipple, each lobe being quite distinct from the others and possessing its own duct. The lobes are subdivided into secondary lobes and lobules, bound together and supported by a considerable amount of connective tissue which forms the stroma of the gland. The alveoli of the gland and the secretory epithelium lining them vary much under different conditions. At puberty the corpus mammae is chiefly composed of connective-tissue stroma and the ducts of the gland. At this time the alveoli are small and few in number. During lactation, when the gland is fully functional the alveoli are enlarged, distended with fluid, and much more numerous. The epithelial cells are cubical and filled with fat globules. When the gland is not secreting the alveoli l)ecome small and reduced in number, while the cells of the lining epithelium, which are now small and granular, do not contain fat globules. The duct (ductus lactiferi) of each lobe, passing towards the nipple, becomes enlarged to form a small spindle-shaped dilatation called an ampulla or sinus lactiferi; then becoming once more constricted, it passes, without communicating with the other ducts, to the summit of the nipple, where it opens. In the male subject the various parts of the mamma are represented in a rudi- mentary condition. The presence of milk glands is characteristic of the class mammalia, and the number of pairs of glands in each group of animals l)ears some relation to the number of young usually produced at each l)irth. Variations.—Asymmetrv in the development of the iiianuiKe is vei-y conuiioii-—tlie left mamma ))eing very often larger than tlie right. Alisence of one or both mammai is a very rare abnormaUty, which may or may not be associated ■with absence of the nipples. When one Fifi. 784.—Dissection of the Mammary Gland.