750 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. is bouuded below and on the right bj the inferior vena cava and aljove and on the left by the left inferior pxilmonary vein, is known as the great oblique sinus. It passes upwards and to the right behind the auricles, and lies in front of the oesophagus and the descending thoracic aorta. A small fold of the serous pericardium, the vestigial fold of Marshall (liga- mentum v. cavse sinistrte), passes from the left pulmonary artery to the left superior puhuonary vein behind the left extremity of the transverse sinus. It merits special attention because it encloses the remains of the left superior vena cava, which atropliies at an early period of foetal life. Structure.—Tlie fibrous pericardium consists of ordinary connective tissue fibres felted together into a dense unyielding membrane. The serous pericardium is covered on its inner aspect by a layer of flat endothelial cells which rest upon a basis of mixed white and elastic fibres in which run numerous blood-vessels, Ij-mpliatics, and nerves. THE ARTERIES. THE PULMONARY AETERY. The pulmonary artery (a. pulmonalis), which is slightly larger at its com- mencement than the aorta, springs from the anterior and left angle of the base of the right ventricle, at the termination of the infundibulum. It runs upwards and backwards towards the concavity of the aortic arch, curving from the front round the left side of the ascending aorta to reach a plane posterior to the latter; and it terminates, by dividing into right and left branches, opposite the disc between the fifth and sixth dorsal vertebra?. Its length is a little more than two inches. Relations.—Enclosed within the fibrous pericardium, and enveloped along with the ascending aorta in a common sheath of the visceral layer of the serous pericardium, the pulmonary artery lies behind the inner extremity of the second left intercostal space, from which it is separated by the anterior margins of the left lung and pleural sac. Its posterior relations are the root of the aorta, the anterior wall of the left auricle, and the first part of the left coronary artery. To the right it is in relation with the right coronary artery and the right auricular appendix, and to the left with the left coronary artery and the left auricular appendix. Immediately above its bifurcation, between it and the aortic arch, is the superficial cardiac plexus. The right branch of the pulmonary artery is longer and larger than the left. It passes to the liilus of the right lung, forming one of the constituents of its root, and, entering the lung, descends with the main bronchus to the lower extremity of the organ. Relations.—Before it enters the lung the right pulmonary artery passes behind the ascending aorta, the superior vena cava, and the upper right pulmonary vein. At first it lies below the arch of the aorta and the right bronchus, in front of the oesophagus, and above the left auricle and the lower right pulmonary vein; then it crosses in front of the right bronchus immediately below the eparterial branch, and reaches the hilus of the lung. After entering the lung the artery descends, behind and to the outer side of the main bronchus and between its ventral and dorsal branches. Branches.—Before entering the hilus it gives oft" a large branch to the upper lobe which accompanies the eparterial bronchus, and in the substance of the lung it gives oft' numerous branches which correspond with and accompany the dorsal, ventral, and accessory branches of the right bronchus. The left branch of the pulmonary artery, shorter, smaller, and somewhat higher in position than the right, passes outwards and backwards from the bifurca- tion of the pulmonary stem, and runs in the root of the left lung to the hilus; it then descends in company with the main bronchus to the lower end of the lung. Relations.—Before it enters the lung it is crossed in front by the upper left