794 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. it represents the dorsal roots of the fourth and fifth right aortic arches of the embryo. When present it arises from tlie front and right side of the upper part of the main trunk near tlie upper bronchial artery, and passes upwards and to the right behind the cesophagus; it frequently anastomoses with the right superior intercostal artery, and it may be enlarged and form the first part of the right subclavian artery. Visceral Branches of the Descending Thoracic Aorta. 1. The bronchial branches (aa. bronchiales) of the thoracic aortfc are usually two in number—an upper and a Lnver—and both pass to the left lung. The v/p'pe.r left hronchial artery arises from the front of tlie main trunk opposite the bifurcation of the trachea; the inferior left hronchial artery usually takes origin near the lower border of the left bronchus. Both vessels are directed downwards and out- wards to the back of the bronchus, which they accompany, and, dividing similarly, they follow its ramifications in the lung. They not only supply the walls of the bronchial tubes and the sul)Stance of the lungs, but also give branches to the bronchial glands, the pulmonary vessels, the pericardium, and the oesophagus. As a rule there is only one rigid hronchial artery, and it arises from the firvSt right aortic intercostal artery; but it not uncommonly arises from the upper left bronchial artery, and more rarely it springs directly from the aorta. In its course and distribution it corresponds to the bronchial arteries of the left side. 2. The oesophageal branches (aa. oesophage;Te) are variable ; usually four or five small branches spring from the front of the aorta and pass forwards to the cesophagus, in the walls of which they ramify, anastomosing above with branches of the left bronchial and inferior thyroid arteries, and l)elow with oesophageal branches of the coronary and phrenic arteries. 3. The pericardial branches (rami pei'icardiaci) consist of three or four small irregular vessels which are distributed on the surface of the pericardium. 4. Small mediastinal branches (rami mediastinales) pass to the areolar tissue and glands in tlie posterior mediastinal space, and to the posterior part of the diaphragm. l^KANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AOR'J'A. The brandies of the abdominal portion of the aorta are distributed almost entirely to the walls and contents of the abdominal cavity, Init some also supply small branches to tlie vertebral column, and to the contents of the spinal canal, and others are prolonged into the pelvis. They are divisible into parietal and visceral groups, botli of wliieh include paired and single (unpaired) vessels. r niiferior phrenic. I Paired.- Lumbar 1 1^Common iliac. \ Single. Middle sacral. Parietal. 1.:; ' .,. Visceral. Common iliac. Paired., /"Suprarenal. - Renal. I Spermatic or ovarian. [Coeliac axis. Single.- Superior mesenteric, [inferior mesenteric. Parietal Branches of the Abdominal Aorta. 1. The inferior phrenic arteries (aa. phrenicie inferiores. Fig. 566) are two in number, and are of small size; they arise, either separately or by a common trunk, from the aorta immediately below the diaphragm, on the under surface of which they are distributed. Diverging from one another, each artery runs upwards and outwards on the corresponding crus of the diaphragm—that on the right side passing behind the inferior vena cava, that on the left behind the oeso- phagus—and just before reaching the central tendon of the diaphragm it divides into iwterual and external terminal branches. The internal branch of each artery runs forward and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, forming an arch, convex forwards, along the front of the central tendon of the diaphragm. Offsets from this arch anastomose with the superior phrenic, inusculo-phrenic, and internal