MOEPHOLOGY OF THE AETEEIES. 891 brandies of tlie seventh and the following somatic segmental arteries. The continuation of the snbclavian artery, beyond the inner margin of the first rib, is the persistent and enlarged lateral offset of the ventral branch of the seventh somatic segmental artery, which is continued outwards into theujDper limb behind, or postaxial to the shoulder girdle. The tliyroid axis and the superior intercostal artery, both brandies of the subclavian artery, are persistent pre-costal anastomoses, and the ascending cervical artery belongs to the same series of vessels. The vertebral artery, which appears as a branch of the subclavian in the adult, is morphologically somewhat complex. The first jiart represents the dorsal branch of the seventh somatic segmental artery; the second part, that passing through the cervical transverse processes, consists of the jjersistent post-costal anasto- moses between the first seven seg- mental arteries; a third part, that lying on the arch of tlie atlas, is the spinal branch of the first somatic segmental artery and its neural con- tinuation ; whilst finally the upper part of the vertebral artery, that in the cranial cavity, appears to repre- sent a i^rolongation of the -pre- neural anastomoses, whicli still Fig. 610.—Diagram of the Segmental and Ijitersegmental AETEEIES at a later period of DlSVELOPMENT THAN IN Fig. 609. C. Ccelom ; D.A, Dorsal aorta ; D.Sp, Dorsal splanchnic anastomosis ; In, Intestine ; V.E.D, Brancli to ventral enteric diverticulum ; V.Sp, Ventral splanchnic anastomosis. fa-rther upwards are probably represented by the basilar artery. As already stated, the post- costal anastomoses below the seventh segmental artery occasionally persist, and in such cases the and sjiring from one or other of the dorsal branches "of the upper intercostal vertebral may lose its connexion with the subclavian, PPL SoSA PDA VSo VED Fig. 611.—Diagram showing the Arrangement and Com- munications OP the Segmental Arteries in the Region of the Cephalic Aohtic Arches. C.A.A, Cephalic aortic arch ; In, Intestine ; L.B, Lateral branch of a somatic segmental artery ; L.E.D, Branch to a lateral enteric diverticulum ; P.C, Post-central anastomosis ; P.D.A, Primitive dorsal aorta; Po.C, Post-costal anastomosis; Po.N, Post-neural anastomosis ; Po.T, Post-transverse anastomosis ; Pr.C, Pre-costal anastomosis ; Pr.L, Pre-laminar anastomosis; Pr.N, Pre-neural anastomosis; P.V.A, Primitive ventral aorta; So.S.A, Somatic segmental artery; V.E.D, Branch to a ventral enteric diverticulum ; V.So, Ventral somatic anastomosis. arteries. The profunda cervicis artery is to l3e regarded as a remnant of the post- transverse longitudinal anastomoses. The origin of the seventh somatic segmental artery from the dorsal longi- tudinal trunk is at first some distance behind the fifth aortic arch, but, simul- taneously with the elongation of the neck and the retraction of the heart into the tlioracic region, it is shifted forward until it is op230site the dorsal end of the fourth aortic arch. The middle sacral artery is formed l)y the fusion of two vessels, each of which springs from the p>rimitive aorta in exactly the same manner as a somatic segmental artery; it may therefore be looked upon as consisting of fused somatic segmental vessels which have been prolonged backward for the supply of the caudal apjjendage. It is, how- ever, commonly regarded as the direct continuation of the descending aorta, and consequently as being mainly inter- segmental. Its mode of origin and general nature do not lend mucli support to the latter view. The intermediate visceral arteries supply the organs derived from the intermediate cell mass. They form a some^vhat irregular series of vessels in the adult, but presumably in the