60 GENERAL EMBEYOLOGY. the aorta, the main vessels of the head and neck, the pnhnonaiy artery and its primary branches, the common and internal iliac arteries, and the hypogastric arteries. The blood distributed l^y the various arteries is returned to the heart by vessels called veins, which are developed in the substance of the mesoderm in the same manner as the arteries. From the yolk-sac the blood returns by the vitelline veins; from the alimentary canal and its appendages, through the portal and hepatic veins ; from the head and neck, Ijy the jugular -s-eins and the superior vena cava ; and from the body and lower limbs, first by the cardinal veins, and afterwards by the inferior vena cava and the azygos veins. The heart is formed by the fusion of portions of the anterior ventral sections of the primitive aortre behind the origins of the cephalic aortic arches, and, therefore, it is primitively a bilateral organ. Subsequently it possesses for a time a single chamber, but this is afterwards divided. During the greater part of foetal life the heart, as in the adidt, possesses four chambers—two auricles or upper chamliers and two ventricles or lower chambers, right and left. The two auricles com- municate with the corresponding ventricles through auriculo-ventricular apertures, 7th pair of Vertebral Sinus vcnosns Vitelline vein Fig. 46.—Diagram of the Blood-Ve.ssels ok a Mammalian Embryo after the formation of the Heart. and with each other through a foramen, the foramen ovale, in the septum between them. In the adult the blood enters the right auricle by the superior and inferior venae ca\'ae and the coronary sinus; from the right auricle it passes into the right ventricle, hy which it is propelled through the pulmonary arteries and lungs; re- turning to the heart by the pulmonary veins it passes into the left auricle, and then into the left ventricle, by the contraction of which it is forced into the systemic aorta. From the aorta, by various branches, it traverses the organs and tissues of the body, and is returned again to the right auricle. The course of the foetal circulation differs from that of the adult; the blood passes out of the body into the placenta, to be oxygenated and purified, the lungs of the foetus remaining functionless until the time of Ijirth. Very little of the blood which is ejected from the right ventricle at every contraction of that chamber reaches tlie lungs; the greater part is transferred from the pnhnonaiy artery to the aorta by an anastomosing channel, the ductus arteriosus, which disappears after the pulmonary circulation is estal)lislied. During the later months of ftRtal life, lilood enters the right auricle by the superior and inferior vena; cavfe and through the coronary sinus; by the latter the small amount only which is returning from the walls of the heart. The blood poured into the right auricle by the superior vena cava is returned from the head,