THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 958 acini—e.(j. testL-s, kidney, most Small <iuct from an alveolu: Large, duct II. Compound glands.—Duct divided. ('/) Compound tubular.—Branched elongated tul)es, gatftri<- glands. {h) Compound acinous or alveolar (racemose glaud.-<), branched duct with .saccular acini on terminal branches—e.g. salivary, sebaceous, and Meibomian glands ; the mucous glands of the mouth, tongue, palate, .pharynx, nose, oesopliagus, and respiratory tube. ((•) Acino-tubular.—Branched duct, with elongated narrow acini on terminal branches—ejj. pancreas, Brunner's glands, pi'ostate. III. Solid gland.—The livei. To save confusion it may be pointed out that instead of acinus the term alveolus (and also saccule and follicle) is often usecf, and also that the term " racemose gland " is often conveniently used instead of compound acinous gland. General Structure of Glands. —AVhilst the small glands, such as those of the mouth and phai'vnx, are placed in the iiuicosa or submucosa immediately beneath the point at whieli their ducts ojjen on the surface, the large glands form distinct masses, generally surrounded by special cajisules, and often lie at a considerable distance from the points at which their ducts open. One of these large glands of the acinous type, such as the jjarotid or subma.xillary, presents the following general arrangement. Tlie gland is made up, as can be seen with the unaided eye, of a number of masses, often as large as peas, which are surrounded and held together by connective tissue. These are known as lobes, and to each a branch of the duct jjasses. The lobes are in turn made up of a number of smaller masses—lobules—each having a special brancli of the lobar duct. These again are com- posed of smaller lobules, and so on to a varying degree. Finally, the smallest are made up of a terminal branch of the duct, with a cluster of acini or alveoli developed upon it. The acini or alveoli, the special secreting portions of the gland, are composed of a basement membrane, often fenestrated or basket-like, formed of flattened cells, on the outer side of which the blood and lymph vessels lie. The inner surface of this membrane is lined by the secreting epithelial cells, usually polygonal in shape, which almost com- pletely fill the alveolus. A small lumen, however, is left, into which the secretion of the cells is shed, whence it passes into the duct of the lobule, and thus to the main duct. The blood-vessels and lymphatics, on entering the gland, break up and run, branching as they go, in the connective tissue which conveys them to all parts of tlie gland. Mucous and Serous Glands. — Two distinct varieties of salivary glands are foimd, the serous and the nuicous, differing not only in the nature of their secretion, but also in the character of the epithelium lining their alveoli. In those of the mucous tj'pe (Fig. 645) the epithe- lial cells are large, cleai-, or faintly granular, and the nucleus lies as a rule near the base of the cell. In addition, many mucous glands, but not all, have small flattened or crescentic cells, distinctly granular, which stain strongly with ordinary stains, lying between the basement memljranc and the bases of the chief cells. These are the crescenfx or demilunes of Gitmuzzi. In the acini or alveoli of serous glands, on the other hand (Fig. 645), the epithelial cells are distinctly granular, the granules staining well with ordinary stains : the nuclei are rounded and lie near tlie centre of the cells, and no demilunes are present. In man the parotid and the small glands which open into the fossa; of the circum- Crcsceut of Oiaiiuzzi Fig. 64.0. An alveolus with .st'iTftin^' ci'U Couufctive tissui' -Section of a Serous Gland on the left, a Mucol? ON THE HKiHT SIDE (Biihm and V. Davidoft ). (iLANU In the serous gland the granular secreting celts and the ceutrally-iilace<l luicleus should be noted. The relatively clear cells, with the dark crescenta of Gianuzzi, are distinctive in tlie nuicous gland.