9S0 THE DIGESTTVJ] SYSTEM. Taken as a whole, the pharynx is a tube, the anterior wall of which is wanting. The place of this wall is occupied Ijy the nasal, oral, and laryngeal cavities, as well as l)y the liase of tlie tonynie : and to the lateral Itoundaries luteriiiU carotid artery For.anreu laceruni meclium Cartilage of Eustacliian tube Cavity of Kustacliiaii tube Levator jialati Inferior turbinated bono Lateral recess of pliarynx —Levator cushion Superior constrictor muscle Glands in soft palatn Uvula Palatopharyngeus Circunivallate ])ai>illa- Sulcus tenninalis ■Glossopliaryngeal nerve Foramen csecuni Lymphoid follicle - Middle constrictor nmscle Epiglottis Pharyngo-epiglottic fold Lingual artery Hyoglossus muscle Hyoid bone ■Superior laryngeal artery Internal laryngeal nerve .^ryteno-epiglottic fold Sinus pyriformis Superior aperture of larynx Inferior constrictor muscle Toy of cricoid cartilage Fi(i. 660.—The Antekiok Wall of the Pharvn.x with KltOM BEHIND. ITS Orifices, .seen The specimen from which the drawing was made was obtained from a formalin-hardened body, by removing the posterior wall of the i)haryux while leaving the anterior wall undisturbed. The following points should be noted : the greatest width of the pharynx, above, at tlie lateral recesses ; the postei'ior nares, with the inferior turbinated bones seen through them ; the levator cushion ; and tlie pharyngeal portion of the tongue. )f all of these parts tlie sides of the tul)e are connected. In this way it comes to l)e at- tached from above down- wards to the following more or less fixed points:—(1) The Eustachian tube, and internal pterygoid plate; (2) the pterygo- maxillary liga- ment, the pos- terior end of the mylohyoid ridge on the inner aspect of the lower jaw, and the mucous membrane of the mouth ; (.3) the l)ase of the tongue and the hyoid bone ; and (4) the thyroid and cricoid car- tilages of the larynx. Above, it is firmly fixed })y its aponeurosis to the periosteum of the basi- occipital and petrous portion of the temporal l)ones; and in ad- dition the raphe of the constric- tors is attached to the pharyn- geal tubercle of the occipital bone. Below it liecomes con- tinuous with the oesophagus. IV loose areolar tissue to Behind and at the sides, the pharynx is connected merely the surrounding parts. The pharynx presents the following relations:—In front, as already descrilied, are the nasal cavities, the mouth, l)ase of tongue, and larynx, all of which are seen on its anterior wall (Fig. G60). Behind, it is separated liy loose areolar tissue (known as the retro-pharyngeal space) from the preverte))ral fascia and muscles, which inter- vene between it and the six upper cervical vertebrte. At the sides are placed the