1083 THE KIDNEYS. It is probable that some at least of the (le])ressious on the ]iostevioi' as])ect of tlie kidney are produced after deatli, and are caused liy tlie -w eiglit of the otlier abdominal organs jiressing the kidney backwards against tlie more resisting structures of tlie abdominal wall, at a time when the muscles Ijehind the kidney have become flaccid. The outer border in its middle and lower part is rather a surface than a border, and looks for the most part directly backwards; resting on tlie anterior surface of the posterior tendon of the transversalis muscle, it lies to the outer side Area for — iliaphragin Area fur traiis\'ersalis teniioii Area for qnailratns. Iiiniboruni Fig. 729.—The Kidmeys viewed from Behind. Same specimen as Fig. 730. The dotted lines mark out the areas in contact with the various muscles forming the posterior abdominal wall. a. Depression corresponding to the transverse process of the fir.st lumbar vertebra. h. Depression corresponding to the transverse process of the second lumbar vertebra, c. Depression corresponding to the twelfth rib. of the quadratus lumborum. The outer liorder is narrowest above, and widest just below its middle point, corresponding to the greater thickness of this part of the kidney. In many ways it would be more satisfactory to aj^jjly the term muscular surface (facies muscularis) collectively to the areas described here as posterior surface and outer border ; in like manner tlie term visceral surface (facies visceralis) might be suitably apjilied to the so-called anterior surface of the organ. The edge separating the visceral from the muscular surface is the actual outer border of the kidney. Anterior Relations and the Anterior Surface of the Kidney.—The anterior relations of the kidneys not only differ on the two sides of the liody, Init also many of the structures related to the anterior surface of each kidney undergo frequent changes in position during life. A small area on the upper part of the anterior surface of the right kidney is in relation to the corresponding suprarenal capsule (Fig. 730). The rest of the upper part of the anterior surface is in contact with the under surface of the liver. The suprarenal capsule is bound to the kidney by connective tissue, while the part of the kidney in relation to the liver is, like the liver itself, covered 1)y peritoneum, and so the two organs, although closely applied, are really separated l)y a part of the general peritoneal cavity. In front of the lower end of the riglit kidney are usually found two parts of the alimentary canal—namely, the descending part of the duodenum and the hepatic flexuxe, or the commencement of the transverse colon. The part of the kidney related to the duodenum lies to the inner side of the area which touches the colon, but the exact amount of the kidney in contact witli each of tliese two ])arts of intestine varies much in different subjects. Both