THE NECK. 11 SI 'JMie sterno-mastoid muscle rurms one of tho mast iinportanl supeitici;il laiul- luarks of IIr' neck. 'IMic anterior border of tlu; imiwele, tlie more distinct of tlie Apex of mastoid proces: Hypoglossal nervn. Bifuication of common carotid artery Carotid tubercle. Apex of lung-.. Brachial plexu Subclavian arter^ 1st part axillary artery Coracoid process Acromio-^ clavicular loint External angular process Zygoma Temporal artery Facial ner^■e Transverse process of atlas _ Facial artery . - Submaxillary gland . Anterior belly of iligastric - Tip of greater curnu of hyoid bone Tip of superior cornu of thyroid cartilage Body of hyoid bone Ponium Adami Isthmus of thyroid gland ._Clavicular head of sterno-mastoid ternal head of sterno-mastoid Bifurcation of innominate artery Infra-clavicular fossa Upper border of Wk manubrium stei-ni Greater tuberosity I Lesser tuberosity of of humerus I humerus Bicipital groove Fio. 800.—Lateral Aspect of Neck. two, may be felt along its whole extent. Between the prominent sternal origin and the broad ribbon-like clavicular origin is a slight triangular depression whicli overlies the lower part of the internal jiigular vein. Digastric Triangle.—This triangle is subdivided into an anterior or sub- maxillary portion and a posterior or parotid portion liy the stylo-maxillary liga- ment. In the anteri(»r portion is the submaxillary gland, which extends fixim the posterior half of the lower border of the mandible to the great cornu of the hyoid bone. The facial vein passes downwards and backwards superficial to the gland, while the facial artery, imbedded in its deep surface, arches upwards under cover of the angle of the jaw, where, according to Merkel, it approaches the tonsil, being separated fnim it, however, by the superior constrictor of the pharynx. The lingual artery may be ligatured in the digastric triangle, where it lies behind the hyo-glossus a little above the great cornu of the hyoid bone; the superficial guides to the vessel are the lower border of the submaxillary gland, and the hypoglossal nerve and lingual vein, which lie u])on the hyo-glossus, the latter being recognised by the vertical direction of its fibres. The floor of the digastric triangle is formed, from before backwards, Ijy the mylo-hyoid, hyo-glossus, and superior constrictor of the pharynx. The lymphatic glands of this space receive their lymphatics from the face and mouth, including the tongue and teeth. Primary su])purative cellu- litis of the connective tissue of this space is called angina Ludoviei. Carotid Triangle.—The central landmark of this triangle is the great cornu of the hyoid bone, the tip of which, when the fascia is relaxed, may be readily felt immediately in front of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, at a point corre- sponding to the centre of a line drawn from the tip of the mastoid process to the pomum Adami. The deep cervical fascia holds the upper part of the sterno- mastoid forwards towards the angle of the jaw, so that, with the fascia undivided, the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid overlaps the internal jugular x eiii and the bifurcation of the common carotid arterv.