615 THE PUDENDAL PLEXUS. nerve) arises from the small sciatic nerve at the lower border of the gluteus maximus muscle (Fig. 447, p. 616). It sweeps inwards towards the perineum, lying on the origin of the hamstring muscles below the ischial tuberosity, and terminates by becoming subcutaneous over the pubic arch. Its terminal branches supply the skin of the scrotum and root of the penis, or in the female the labium majus and clitoris, some of them being directed backwards towards the anus and central point of the perineum. They communicate with the inferior htemorrhoidal and perineal branches of the pudic nerve and with the ilio-inguinal nerve. In its course to the perineum the nerve gives off collateral branches to the skin of the upper and inner part of the thigh. The gluteal branches (rr. clunium inferiores) are large and numerous (Fig. 444, p. 611). They arise from the small sciatic nerve beneath the gluteus maximus, and become subcutaneous by piercing the fascia-lata at different points along its lower border. They supply the skin of the lower half of the buttock. The outermost branches, reaching to the back of the great trochanter, overlap the terminal filaments of the gluteal branches of the external cutaneous nerve, and the posterior primary divisions of the first three lumbar nerves. The innermost branches, which may pierce the great sacro-sciatic ligament, reach nearly to the coccyx, and are coterminous in their distribution with the branches of the perforating cutaneous nerve, which they reinforce and not unfrequently replace. The femoral branches are divisible into two sets—internal and external. They pierce the fascia lata of the thigh at intervals, and respectively supply the skin of the back of the thigh on its inner and outer sides. The sural branches are two or more slender nerves which pierce the fascia over the popliteal space, and are distributed for a variable extent to the skin of the back of the leg. They may stop short over the popliteal space, or may extend as far as the ankle. Usually they innervate the skin as far as the middle of the calf. They communicate with the external saphenous nerve. Ill case.s wliere tlie great sciatic nerve is naturally divided at its origin into tibial (internal popliteal) and peroneal (external popliteal) nerves {e.g. hy the pyriforniis muscle), the small sciatic nerve is also separated into two parts : a dorsal part, associated with the jjeroneal nerve and arising in common with the lower roots of the interior gluteal nerve (usually from the first and second sacral nerves), which comprises the gluteal and external femoral liranches ; and a ventral part, associated with the tibial nerve and arising usually from the second and third sacral nerves, along with the perforating cutaneous and pudic nerves, which comprises the perineal and internal femoral branches. Perforating Cutaneous Nerve (u. perforans ligamenti tuberoso - sacri (Schwalbe), n. cutaneus clunium inferior medialis (Eisler) ).—This nerve arises from the l)ack of the second and third sacral nerves (Fig. 447, p. 616). It is associated at its origin with the lower roots of the small sciatic nerve. Passing downwards it pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament, along with the coccygeal branch of the sciatic artery; and after winding round the lower border of the gluteus maximus muscle, or piercing its lower fibres, it becomes subcutaneous a little distance from the coccyx, and supplies the skin over the lower part of the buttock and the inner part of the fold of the nates. The perfui'atiuL!' cutaneous nerve is not always present. In a minority of cases it is associated at its origin with tlie pudic nerve. When absent as a separate nerve, its place is taken liy (1) gluteal branches of the small sciatic nerve, or (2) a Ijranch from the pudic nerve, (jr (3) a small nerve (ii. perforans coccygeus major, Eisler), arising separately from the Ijack of the tliird and fourth sacral nerves. Muscular Branches.—Between the third and fourth sacral nerves (occasion- ally reinforced by the second, Eisler) a plexiform loop is formed, from which muscular nerves are given off to the levator ani (supplying the muscle on its pelvic surface), coccygeus, and external sphincter. The nerve to the external sphincter (jperineal hranch of fourth sacral) pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the coccygeus muscle, to which it gives offsets, and appears in the ischio-rectal fossa between the gluteus maximus and the external sphincter. Besides supplying the posterior fibres of the external sphincter, it distril)utes cutaneous offsets to the skin