110 OSTEOLOGY. the end of the second month of foetal life. The notch for the hj-poglossal canal appears about the third month. From this centre is formed the posterior three-fourths of the occij^ital condyle. The. exoccipital is visually completely fused with the squama by the third year or earlier. As ali'eady noted, the squama consists of two parts—the one above the occipital crest, the other below it; the former develops in membrane, the latter in cartilage. In a three-months foetus this difterence is very characteristic. The cartilagirious part (supra- occipital) begins to ossify from two centres about the sixth or seventh week, which rapidly join to form an elongated strip placed transversely in the region of the occipital protuberance. The centres for the upper part (interparietal) appear later. According to Maggi [Arch. Ital. Biol, tome 26, fas. 2, p. 301), they are four in number, of which two placed on either side of the middle line appear about the second month. The other pair, placed laterally, are seen about the third month; fusion between these takes place early, but their disposition and arrangement explain the anomalies to which this part of the bone is subject. The mesial pair may persist as separate ossicles, or fuse to form the pre-interparietals, whilst the lateral pair may remain independent of the supraoccipital as a single or double interparietal bone. Union between the supraoccipital and the inter- parietal elements occurs about the third or fourth mouth ; but evidence of their separation is frequently met with even in the adult by the persistence of a transverse suture runnhig inwards from each external angle of the squama, or, as above mentioned, there may be an OS IncEe. The supraoccipital forms a small part of the middle of the hinder border of the foramen magnum, though here a small independent centi'e, known as the ossicle of Kerkriug, is occasionally met with. Other independent centres are sometimes seen between the supraoccipital and the exoccipitals. At birth the occipital consists of four parts—the interparietal and supraoccipital combined, the basioccipital, and the exoccipitals—one on either side. The Temporal Bones. The temporal bone (os temporale) lies about the centre of the lower half of either side of the skull, and enters largely into the formation of the cranial base. It is placed Ijetween the occipital behind, the parietal above, the sphenoid in front, and tlie occipital and splienoid internally and below. At birth it consists of three parts—an upper and outer part, the squamous or scLuamo-zygomatic portion; an inner and posterior portion, the petro-mastoid, which contains the organ of hearing, together with that specially associated with equilibration ; and an under or tympanic part, from which the Hoor and anterior wall of the external auditory meatus is formed. The squamous part (pars squamosa) consists of a thin shell-like plate of bone placed vertically, having an inner (cerebral) and an outer (temporal) surface and a semicircular upper border. Inferioiiy, behind, and internally it is fused in early life with the petro-mastoid portion by means of the squamoso-mastoid and the petro-squamosal sutures, traces of which are often met with in the adult l)one; whilst below and in front it is separated from the tympanic and petrous parts by the Glaserian fissure. Its external surface, smooth and slightly convex, enters into the formation of the iioor of the temporal fossa, and affords attachment to the temporal muscle. Near its hinder part it is crossed by one or more ascending grooves for the branches of the middle temporal artery. In front and below there springs from it the zygomatic process (processiis zygomaticus). This arises by a laoad attachment, the surfaces of which are inferior and superior; curving outwards and forwards, it then becomes twisted and narrow so that its sides are turned inwards and outwards and its edges directed upwards and downwards. Anteriorly it ends in an obliqi;e serrated extremity which articulates with the zygomatic pro- cess of the malar bone. Posteriorly the edges of this process separate and are termed its roots. The upper edge, which becomes the posterior root, sweeps back over the external auditory meatus, and is confluent with a ridge, the supra-mastoid crest, which curves backwards and slightly upwards, and serves to define the limit of the temporal fossa posteriorly. The inferior edge turns inwards and constitutes the anterior root; the under surface of this forms a transversely-placed rounded ridge, tlie articular eminence (tuberculum articulare), behiiul which there is a deep