1219 THE ABDOMEN. The metatarso-phalangeal articulations are situated 1 in. behind the web of the toes. In disarticulating a toe, the transverse metatarsal ligament, which unites the heads of the metatarsal bones, sliould not be injured. The tendon of the tibialis posticus may be felt, and, by inverting the foot, seen, as it extends from Ijehind the tip of the internal malleolus to the tul)ercle of the scaphoid; it crosses the astragalus immediately above the sustentaculum tali. In the commonest form of club-foot, viz. talipes erjuiHo-varus, the tubercle of the scaphoid is approximated to the internal malleohis, so that tenotomy of the tendon should be performed through a puncture a little below the tip of the internal malleohis ; if the knife, after dividing the tendon, be carried down to the bone, the inferior calcaneo- scaphoid ligament will be divided and the astragalo-scaphoid joint opened, a procedure which is called for before the foot can be brought into good position. Crossing the front of the ankle-joint, from within outwards, are the following tendons: viz. the tibialis anticus, the largest and most prominent; the extensor longus hallucis, the extensor longu* digitorum, and the peroneus tertius. The extensor brevis digitorum gives rise to a fleshy pad which overlies the dorsal aspect of the calcaueo-cuboid joint. When the foot is everted, the tendon of the peroneus brevis may be seen extending from the tip of the external malleolus to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; immediately below it is the tendon of the peroneus longus, which, as it winds round the cuboid, is obscured l:>y the fleshy flbres (jf the abductor minimi digiti muscle. The abductor hallucis muscle, although descril)ed along with the sole, forms a fleshy pad along the inner border of the foot below the susten- taculum tali. An incision, extending from the tubercle of the scaphoid to the middle of the inner border of the heel, will expose the various tendons, vessels, and nerves, as they pass from the inner ankle into the sole beneath the abductor hallucis. The dorsalis pedis artery may be mapped out on the surface Ijy drawing a line from a point opposite the ankle-joint, midway between the tips of the two malleoli, to the hinder end of the first interosseous space; the vessel may be compressed against the inner column of the tarsal bones. The internal saphenous vein and nerve lie between the anterior border of the internal malleolus and the tendon of the tibialis anticus; the external saphenous vein and nerve take the same course as the tendon ' of the peroneus bre^as. The internal plantar vessels and nerves lie along the internal intermuscular septum, which corresponds to a line drawn from the under surface of the inner tuberosity of the os calcis to the interval between the first and second toes. The external plantar vessels and nerves may be exposed by an incision along the external intermuscular septum, which nurs in a line extending from the middle of the under surface of the heel to the fourth toe (Kocher); to map out the course of the plantar arch, draw a line across the sole from the inner side of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone to the hinder end of the first interosseous space. THE ABDOMEN. THE ANTERIOR ABDOMINAL WALL. The configuration of the abdomen varies with the age, sex, obesity, and muscular development of the individual. In the child it is wider al)0ve than below, while the converse is the case in the adult female. It is most prominent in the region of the umbilicus, which is situated, normally, below the mid-point between the infra- sternal notch and the symphysis pubis, usually a little below the level of the highest part of the iliac crest, and opposite the middle of the liody of the fourth lumbar vertebra. In the obese, and especially when the al)doniinal muscles have lost their tone, the umbilical region becomes prominent and more or less pendulous, so that the umbilicus may come to lie considerably below the normal level. In the cliild it is relatively lower than in the adult, in consequence of the undeveloped state of the pelvis. In spare subjects the lower end of the body of the sternum, the xiphoid carti- lage, and the costal margin, can readily be traced. The slight depression or notch