17 FEETILISATION OF THE OVUM. After a period of quiescence, which succeeds the fusion of the male and female pronuclei, a period of activity supervenes, during which repeated divisions of the impregnated ovum result in the production of a solid mass of cells called a morula. The divisions are mitotic, and all the phenomena associated with mitosis are readily observable in properly prepared specimens. The planes which separate the several segments of the divided ovum in its various stages are termed the "planes of seg- mentation," and in some animals, possibly in all, the first plane by which the ovum is divided into the iirst two daughter cells coincides with the line along which the pronuclei passed to their fusion; it ixrdicates the future mid-axial or mesial plane of the body, the descendants of the cell lying to the right of it being developed into the right half of the body, and those of the cell to the left into the left half. There is no proof, however, that this occurs in mammals; all that is definitely known is that the first division separates the ovum into two parts of unequal size but of similar colour and structure. The second plane of segmentation is at right angles to ,the first and it separates the two daughter cells into four grand-daughter cells, of which, in some cases, two may be larger and two smaller. The subsequent divisions occur irregu- larly, and they result in the formation of numerous cells (blastomeres). which apparently only differ in size in the rabbit, but which also differ in appearance in many mammals. Thej are mixed together so irregularly that it is im- possible to distinguish the descendants of one daughter cell from those of the other, and in this, the morula stage, there is frequently no indication of any separation of the cells into layers. In the meantime the polar bodies have disappeared. The next phenomenon of importance is the appearance of a cavity—the segmentation cavity —in the morula; the ovum assumes a vesicular character, and is now termed a blastula. Simul- taneously with the appearance of the cavity the cells of the morula are arranged in two groups fig. lo.—Convehsion op the Morula to —an outer and an inner. The cells of the outer ™e Blastula. group form a layer, the primitive ectoderm or Formation of blastodermic vesicle and • I-1 i j_i pji • • T membrane. epiblast; those of the inner group remain massed . . „ ... ■+ i ' . 1 mi Appearance of segmentation cavity and together and constitute the inner cell mass. Ihe two groups are in contact at one pole of the ovum, and it is in this region that the embryo develops. Though at first the inner cell mass is not laminar, it soon becomes so by the migration and flattening of its cells; the inner layer thus formed is termed the entoderm or hypoblast. The ectoderm and entoderm together constitute the blastoderm or blastodermic membrane, which is bilaniinar, and the vesicle of which they form the wall is no longer spoken of as the blastula, but as the blastodermic vesicle. In the rabbit the embryonic part of the ectoderm is formed from the outer cells of the inner cell mass which unite witli tlie corresponding part of the primitive ectoderm (Rauber's layer). Tliis, however, is merely a peculiarity found in the rabbit and some other mammals; more generally the whole of the inner mass becomes entoderm. 2 attaohment of inner cell mass to ectoderm at upper pole of ovum ; B, Extension and flattening of inner cell mass ; C, Comple- tion of bilaminar blastodermic vesicle. BC, Blastodermic cavity ; EC, Ectoderm ; EE, Embryonic ectoderm ; EN, Entoderm ; I, Inner cell mass ; SC, Segmentation cavity ; ZP, Zona pellucida.