611 INTEKNAL TLANTAK NEKVE. tibialis, u. cutaneus surte medialis). This nerve passes from the popUteal space iu the groove between the two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, and afterwards lies upon the tendo achillis. It pierces the deep fascia in the middle third of the back of the leg, and is joined immediately afterwards by the peroneal communicating nerve from the peroneal nerve. From their union the external or short saphenous nerve results, which reaches the foot, winding round the back of the external malleolus along with the external saphenous vein. The external saphenous nerve supplies cutaneous branches to the outer side and back of the lower third of the leg, the ankle and heel, and the outer side of the foot and little toe, as well as articular branches to the ankle and tarsal joints. The external saphenous nerve communicates on the foot with the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and its size varies with the size of that nerve. It may extend on to the dorsum of the foot for a considerable distance, and may either reinforce or replace the branches of the musculo- cutaneous nerve to the intervals between the fourth and fifth and even the third and fourth toes. The mode of formation of the external saphenous nerve is very variable. The usual arrangement is that described. Frequently tlie peroneal and tibial communicating nerves do not unite, and in such cases the more usual arrangement is for the tibial communicating nerve to form alone the -external saphenous nerve, the peroneal communicating nerve extend- ing only to the ankle and heel. It is less usual for the peroneal communicating nerve to form alone the external saphenous nerve, the tibial communicating nerve in tliese cases ending at the heel. (c) Branches arising in the Bad: of the Leg helow the Knee-Joint.—These branches are mainly muscular and cutaneous. The muscular branches are four in number, com- prising nerves to the soleus (entering its deep surface) and tibialis posticus, often arising by a common trunk, and nerves to the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis, the latter generally accompanying the peroneal artery for some distance. The cutaneous branch is the internal calcanean nerve (rr. calcanei mediales), which pierces the internal annular hgament, and is distributed to the skin of Fw. 444.-Distributioi^ of Cuta- , 1 °i 1 1 , n j_i T n ,1 f. . NEOTJS Nerves on the Back of the heel and back part ot the sole or the loot. the Loweh Limb. ' In addition a medullary nerve to the fibula, and ou the one side the distribution of a small articular branch to the ankle-joint, are sup- the several nerves is represented plied by the posterior tibial nerve. The terminal branches of the tibial nerve are the internal and external plantar nerves. Internal Plantar Nerve. The internal plantar nerve (n. plantaris medialis) is homologous with the median nerve in the hand (Fig. 445, p.- 612). It is rather larger than the external plantar. It courses forwards in the sole of the foot the letters indicating tlieir nomen- clature. L.l, 2, 3, S.l, 2, 3, Posterior primary divisions of lumbar and sacral nerves; I.H, llio-hypogastric; T.12, Lateral and posterior branches of last thoracic nerve; A.Co', Posterior sacro-coccygeal nerve ; A.Co'^, An- terior saoro-coccygeal nerve; Pehf, Perforating cutaneous nerve ; S.Sc, Small sciatic ; E.C, External cuta- neous ; Obt, Obturator ; I.C, In- ternal cutaneous ; E.P.S, Sural branches of peroneal ; I.S, Internal Calc, Calcanean branch of posterior ' saphenous ; E.S, External saphenous ; M.C, Musculo-cutaneout tibial ; LP, Internal plantar ; E.P, External plantar nerve. On the other side a schematic representation is given of the areas supplied by the above nerves, the indicating the spinal origin of the branches of distribution to each ai'ea. etters