692 THE OIIGANS OF SEjs^SE. Fig. 502.— Pigmented Ei'iTHELiUM OP Hu- man Retina (viewed from the surface). rliodopsiii, already referred to, is found only in the outer segments of the rods, the terminal parts of which extend into the layer of pigmented epithelium. 8. Layer of pigmented epithelium (stratum pigmenti).—This consists of a single stratum of cells which, on surface view, are hexagonal (Fig. 502), their outer flattened sur- faces being firml}' attached to the chorioid. When seen in profile the outer part of each cell contains a large oval nucleus and is devoid of pigment, while the inner portion is filled with ])igment and extends as a series of thread- like processes amongst the outer segments of the rods and cones. When the eye is kept in the dark the pigment accumulates near the outer part of the cell, but, when exposed to light, it streams in between the rods and cones. It will be seen from the foregoing description that there is no direct continuity between the nervous elements which form the different layers of the retina. In the inner molecular layer there is merely an interlacement between the dendrites of the ganglionic layer and the arborisations of tiie cells of tiie inner granular layer, and a similar interlacement in the outer molecular layer between the rod and cone elements and the processes of the outer granules. Sustentacular fibres of the retina (fibne Miilleri).—These support the nervous structures and extend from within outwards through the thickness of the retina as far as the bases of the rods and cones (Fig. 500, M). They begin at the inner surface of the nerve fibre layer in single, or forked, expanded bases, by the apposition of which a delicate membrane, the membrana limitans interna, is formed. In the ganglionic layer they give off a few lateral branches, and, on passing through the inner nuclear layei', supply lateral ramifications amongst the inner grannies for their support; in this part of each fibre there is seen an oval nucleus. In the outer nuclear layer they break up into a network of fibrils which surround the rod and cone fibres, and end externally at the bases of the rods and cones in a delicate membrane, the membrana limitans externa. Structure of the macula lutea and fovea centralis.—The yellow colour of the macula is due to tiie presence of jiigment in the inner layers of the retina. At the circumference of the macula the nerve fibre layer is greatly thinned and the rods are few in number; the ganglionic layer, on the other hand, is much thickened and may contain from seven to nine strata of cells, while the outer granular layer is also thicker and its bipolar cells have an oblique direction. At the fovea centralis the retina is much thinned, since here its nerve fibre and ganglionic laj'ers are absent and its other strata greatly attenuated. The stratum pigmenti, on the other hand, is thicker and its pigmentation more pronounced. The cone nuclei ai'e situated some distance internal to the outer linuting membrane, and thus the thin inner and outer granular layers are in apposition. There are no rods, and the cones, closely crowded together, are narrower and their outer segments more elongated than elsewhere, so that the line of their bases, indi- cated by the membrana limitans externa, presents fovea centralis and macula lutea are spoken of distinct vision." Structure of the Ora serrata.—Here the nervous layers of the retina suddenly cease ; tiie layer of rods and cones first failing, to be inmiediately followed by the disappear- ance of the other nervous strata. In front of the ora serrata the retina is prolonged over the ciliary processes in the form of two layers of cells: (a) an inner layer of columnar epithelium, and {f>) an outer, consisting of the stratum pigmenti, tlie two forming the pars ciliaris retime. The same two laj^ers are prolonged over tlie back of the iris, wlicre both are pig- mented and form the pars iridica retime. Vessels of the retina-—The retina is supplied by the arteria centralis retinae, a branch of tiie ojilitlialmic artery, whicii pierces the sheath of the optic nerve about three- quarters of an inch behind the eyeball and makes its appearance in the centre of the optic disc. Here it divides into an upper and a lower branch, and each of these again bifurcates into an internal, or nasal, and an external, or temporal, branch. The resulting four branches ramify towards the periphery of the retina, and are named the superior and inferior temporal and the superior and inferior nasal arteries. The temporal arteries pass outwards above and below the macula lutea, to which they give small branches; these do not, however, extend as far as the fovea centralis, which is devoid of blood-vessels. The macula also receives two small arteries (superior and inferior macular) directly from the porus opticus. The larger vessels run in the nerve fibre layer near the membrana limitans interna and form two capillary networks—an inner, in the nerve fibre layer, and a convexity directed forwards. The by the physiologist as the " region of