1094 UROGENITAL SYSTEM. basal angles of Lhe lateral angles ut' the letralu'dron eorrt'S])()ii<l Bladder apex Infpro-lateral; area Ui-Htlira Ureter to the Ijladder a|)e,x and to the two (ladder or points where the ureters join the organ. The three surfaces, which lueet interiorly at the urethral orifice, are only marked off from one another by rounded borders, ljut as long as the organ is empty, or nearly so, they are separated by dis- tinct ])orders from the superior sur- face. These three areas have l)een already described as the infero-lateral surfaces and the ))ase of the bladder. Their relations have also been in- dicated (Figs. and 740). The superior surface of the empty bladder looks upwards into the pelvic cavity; it is convex when the organ is contracted, concave when relaxed. This surface is covered by peritoneum, and its out- Fic. 740.-THE Bladdek, Prostate, and Seminal line, which is approximately triangular. Vesicles, viewed fh()m below. is determined Ity lateral and posterior Drawn from a subject in which tlie viscera were hardened borders (Fig. 748). The lateral borders specimen as figure 741, A. The of ^1,^ empty bladder are sharply marked, and extend from the bladder apex to the lateral angles of the bladder, or points where the ureters join the organ. The lateral liorders separate the superior from the infero-lateral portions of the under aspect of the bladder wall (Fig. 741, A). The posterior border stretches across between the lateral angles of the l)ladder, and separates the superior from the basal surface of the viscus. The superior surface is related in the male to coils of intestine ; in the female it is also related to the anterior surface of the uterus. The lateral border of the empty bladder lies against the pelvic fascia just above, or at the level of, the upper limit of the levator ani muscle. The vas deferens crosses the side wall of the pelvis parallel to it, Init at a considerably higher level. In mesial section the Vas (l(?ferPiis Seminal vesicle situ. Same Idadder contained but a small amount of tlnid. SHininal ( vesicle Lateral aspect of prostate Infero-lateral area of lilaclder Urethra Fic. 741.—The Blaudeu, Pro.state, and Seminal Vesicle, viewed from the Outer Side. Drawn from specimens in whicli the viscera were hardened before remo\'al from the body. In A the blailder contained but a very small quantity of fluid ; in B the quantity was somewliat greater. In A the peritoneum is shown covering the upper surface of the bladder, and its cut edge is seen wheie it is reflected along the lateral border of the organ. In B the level of the peritoneal reflexion is indicated by a dotted Hue. cavity of the empty and relaxed bladder often presents the appearance of a Y-shaped chink, the stem of the Y being represented liy the urethra as it leaves the organ, and the two limbs by the narrow intervals between the superior surface and the under parts of the l)ladder wall which lie in front of and behind the urethral orifice. This relaxed form is sometimes described as the diastolic condition of the empty bladder, and is found associateeV with a bladder wall of ))ut little thickness, and a concave upper surface. The condition is usually the result of an escape of