SYMPHYSIS PUBIS. 283 Ilio lumbar ligament Short posterior sacro-iliac ligament Posterior sacro coccygeal ligt. Small sacro sciatic Ischio-capsular lisaiiient A proportion of these fibres is attached to the inner rongh surface of tlie ilium between the iliac crest and the auricular impression. To these the name of the lig. ilio-lumbale inferius is applied (Fig. 219). The great or posterior sacro-sciatic ligament (lig. sacro-tuberosum, Fig. 220) is somewhat triangular in outline. It occupies the interval between the sacrum and the innominate bone, and is attached mesially, to the posterior inferior spine of the ilium; to the posterior aspect of the transverse tubercles and lateral margins of the third, fourth, and fifth seg- ments of the sacrum, as well as to the side of the first seg- ment of the coccyx. It passes down- wards and outwards, becoming narrower as it approaches the ischium, near to which, however, it again expands, to be attached to the inner side of the ischial tuberosity, immediately below the groove for the tendon of the ob- turator internus muscle,i.e. the lesser x sciatic notch. A continuation of\the inner border of the ligament—the processus falciformis (Fig. 220) — runs upwards and forwards on the inner aspect of the ramus of the ischium. The great sacro-sciatic ligament is believed by many to represent the original or proximal end of the long or ischial head of the biceps flexor cruris muscle. The small or anterior sacro-sciatic ligament (lig. sacro-spinosum. Figs. 219 and 220) is situated in front, and in a measure under cover of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Triangular in form, it is attached by its base to the last two segments of the sacrum and the first segment of the coccyx, and by its pointed apex to the tip and upper aspect of the ischial spine. This ligament is intimately associated with the coccygeus muscle, 3,nd by some it is regarded as being derived from it by fibrous transformation of the muscle fasciculi. By the great and small sacro-sciatic ligaments the two sciatic notches of the innominate bone are converted into foramina. Thus the small sacro-sciatic liga- ment completes the boundaries of the great sciatic foramen (foramen ischiadicum majus); while the great sacro-sciatic ligament, assisted by the small sacro-sciatic ligament, closes the small sciatic foramen (foramen ischiadicum minus). Fig. 220.—Pelvic Ligaments as seen feom behind. SYMPHYSIS PUBIS. The anterior wall of the osseous pelvis is completed by the articulation of the bodies of the two pubic bones constituting the symphysis pubis. This joint con- forms in its construction to the general plan of an amphiarthrosis. Thus it is mesial in position; each pubic bone is covered by a layer of hyaline cartilage, which closely adapts itself to the rough tuberculated surface of the pubic bone; while between these two hyaline plates there is an interposed fibro-cartilage (lamina fibro-cartilaginea interpubica), in the interior of which there is usually a vertical antero-posterior cleft. This cavity, which is placed nearer the posterior than the anterior aspect of the joint, does not appear until between the seventh and tenth years, and as it is not lined by a synovial membrane, it is supposed to result from the breaking down of the interpubic lamina.