EXTENSION OF THE MESODEEM. 21 but the outer portions of the same cells are transformed, into fibrillar processes which terminate externally by fusing with the external limiting membrane. The remaining spongioblasts entirely lose their columnar form, they become much branched, and their branches interlace with the fibrillar processes of the ciliated epithelial cells, and with similar branches of neighbouring cells, forming the reticular sustentacular tissue or myelospongium; the external limiting membrane is produced by the close interweaving of the peripheral myelospongial fibrils. The germinal cells are spherical in outline, and contain clear protoplasm and darkly-staining nuclei. They lie between the inner ends of the spongioblasts close to the central canal where, at the fourth or fifth week, they form an irregular layer, and very soon give rise to a new generation of cells, the neuroblasts, or young nerve- cells. Each neuroblast rapidly becomes pyriform by the outgrowth of an axial process or axon, which projects from its outer end towards the periphery of the tube. Shortly after their formation the neuroblasts migrate outwards, and ultimately those of the cord are arranged in longer or shorter columns in the myelospongium, whilst those of the brain are grouped together in definite areas to form the cerebral nuclei. Each neuroblast as it develops gives off many processes, which vary in length and thickness. The first formed of these is the axial process or axon already referred to. It carries impulses from the cell, gives off lateral branches, and terminates either in association with a special end-organ or by ramifying amidst other nerve- processes or round a nerve-cell of the central or peripheral nervous system. The remaining processes of the neuroblast are called dendrites or protoplasmic processes. They are usually shorter and more branched than the axon, and they carry impulses to the cell. The whole system of cell body, axon, and dendrites into which a neuro- blast develops is termed a neuron. Every neuron is a separate and distinct entity. Its processes neither anastomose together nor with the processes of other neurons. They lie, however, in close contiguity with either the body or processes of other neurons or with special end- organs, and it is possible for impulses to pass from one neuron to another although there is no structural continuity between them. Extension of the Mesoderm, and Division of the Blastodermic Membrane into Areas.—It has already been pointed out that when the primitive streak first appears it consists of a thickened ridge of ectoderm situated in the posterior part of the embryonic area and resting upon the entoderm. The anterior end of the ridge soon fuses with the entoderm beneath it, and from its sides and posterior extremity a lamelliform outgrowth, tlie mesoderm, is projected between the ectoderm and entoderm. At its commencement the mesoderm is an outgrowth from the primitive streak, but during its subsequent extension it is probably added to by cells proliferated from the entoderm. As it extends the mesoderm forms a semilunar sheet of cells, the concavity of the semilune being turned forwards, whilst the convexity is gradually projected beyond the margins of the embryonic area. The cornua of the semilunar sheet grow forwards on either side of, and at some little distance from, the middle line, immediately beneath the medullary folds. Each cornu on reaching the anterior end of the embryonic area bifurcates, and the resulting processes unite with their fellows of the opposite side. At the same time the mesoderm grows from its convex margin, and extends over the rest of the ovum as a continuous sheet. But even when the extension is "completed, in the majority of mammals,-three areas on the upper aspect of the ovum remain devoid of mesoderm, and consist only of ectoderm and entoderm. The largest of these areas lies directly in front of the embryonic region. In many mammals it is folded upwards and backwards over the head of the embryo, when this becomes distinguishable, and it takes part in the formation of one of the protecting foetal membranes, viz. the amnion; it is therefore called the proamnion, and the area from which it is developed constitutes the proamniotic area. Probably it is not present in the human blastoderm, or if it exists it is very transitory. The second of the areas into which the mesoderm does not extend lies in the