THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 562 the sinus floor. Nor does the bone escape. As the Pacchionian bodies enlarge they cause absorption of the cranial wall, and small pits are hollowed out on its deep surface for their reception. It must be clearly understood, however, that in such cases the Pacchionian ))ody is separated from the bone by the following:— (1) A continuation round the Pacchionian body of the subdural space; (2) the thinned floor of the parasinoidal sinus; (3) the lumen of the sinus ; and (4) the greatly thinned upper wall of the sinus. The Paccliiouiiui bodies have a sjiecial function to perform. Tlirougli them fluid can pass from the subaraclinoid space into the venous sinuses with which they stand in connexion. Whenever the pressure of bfood in the sinuses is lower than that of the fluid in the subarachnoid space and the ventricles of the brain, the cerebro-spinal fluid filtrates through the Pacchionian bodies into the l)lood sinuses. This is not the only way that subarachnoid fluid may obtain exit. The subarachnoid space is carried outwards for a short distance on the nerves in connexion with their arachnoidal sheaths, and comnurnicates with the lymjjh channels of the nerves. This connexion is more complete in the case of the olfactory, the optic, and the auditory nerves, than in other nerves. A very free comnumication between the subarachnoid spiace and the lymjihatics of the nasal mucous membrane is said to exist. The Pia Matek. The pia mater fortus the immediate investment of the brain and cord. It is a delicate and very vascular meml)rane. Pia mater encephali. — The pia mater which covers the 1 train is finer and more delicate than that which clothes the spinal cord. It follows closely all the inequalities on the surface of the brain, and in the case of the cerelirum it dips into each sulcus in the form of a fold which lines it completely. On the cerebellum the relation is not so intimate; it is only into the larger fissures that it penetrates in the form of folds. The larger blood-vessels of the brain lie in the subarachnoid space. The finer twigs ramify in the pia mater l)efore they proceed into the sulistance of the brain. As they enter they carry with them sheaths derived from the pia mater. When a portion of the membrane is raised from the surface of the encephalon, numerous fine processes are witli- drawn from the cerebral surface. These are the blood-vessels with their sheaths, and they give the deep surface of the pia mater a rough and flocculent appearance. As the pia mater is carried over the lower part of the roof or posterior wall of the fourth ven- tricle of the Ijrain it receives the name of the tela choroidea inferior, and it is in connexion with this portion of the pia mater that the choroid plexuses of that cavity are developed. The tela choroidea superior or velum interpositum is a fold of pia mater which is invaginated into the brain, so that it comes to lie over the tliird ventricle and project in the shape of choroid plexuses into the lateral ventricles. This invagination requires special notice. The velum interpositum (tela choroidea superior) is a double layer or fold of pia Genu of corpus callosuni Ventricle V. Septum lucidum Caudate nucleus Fornix Anterior pillar of fornix Vein of corpus striatum Optic tliala)nus Velum interpositum of Galen Choroid plexus of lateral ventricle — Lyra // Posterior pillar of fornix (under surface) Body of fornix (tlirown backwards) Fig. 417.—Dissection to show the Velum Lntehpositum, AND THE Parts in immediate relation to it.