OSTEOLOGY. 96 Tlie anterior_or sternal extremity of the shaft, often slightly enlarged, displays an elongated oval pit into which the costal cartilage is sunk. Peculiar Ribs.—The first, second, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs all display characters by which they can be readily recognised. The first rib can be easily distinguished from the others by its size, curvature, and flattened form. The head, which is of small size, has a single oval or circular facet, which is directed inwards and slightly backwards for articulation with the side of the body of the first dorsal vertebra. The neck is flattened from above downwards, and is slightly down-turned towards the end which supports the head. Its anterior Ijorder is rounded and smooth; its posterior edge rough for the attach- ment of ligaments. At the point where the neck joins the shaft posteriorly, a prominent tubercle curves upwards and backwards. The inner and under sui'face of this process has a small circular facet which rests on a corresponding articular surface on the transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra. The angle coin- cides with the tiil)ercle, and thus assists in emphasising its prominence. The surfaces of the body of the rib are directed upwards and downwards, its borders inwards and_ outwards. If the finger be run along the thin inner border, a distinct spine or tubercle can be readily felt about an inch or an inch and a qiiarter from its anterior ex- tremity. This is the scalene tubercle (tuberculum scaleni)for the attachment, of the scalenus anticus muscle. There is a shallow, oljlique groove crossing the upper surface of the shaft in front of this for the lodgment of the sub- clavian ^■ein; whilst behind the tubercle there is another groove, usually better marked, and passing obli(piely forwards for the subclavian artery (sulcus subclavire). The space on the upper surface of the rib between this latter groove and the tubercle posteriorly is somewhat rough, and affords attachment to the fibres of tlie scalenus medius muscle. The anterior extremity of the rib is thickened and often expanded for the reception of its costal cartilage, which ( is not infrequently ossified. The under surface of the rib is smooth and is covered l)y pleura. The outer convex border, thin in front, is usually thick and rough behind the subclavian groove, where it has attached to it the fibres of the first digitation of the serratus magnus. Along this edge, also, are attached the external and internal intercostal muscles of the first intercostal space. The inner concaA'e Ijorder is thin, and has connected with it the aponeurotic expansion known as Siljson's fascia. The second rib may be distinguished by the size of its curve; the absence of any twist on its shaft, so that it can be laid flat on the table; the oblique direction . of the surfaces of its shaft, the outer being directed upwards and outwards, whilst the inner is turned downwards and inwards; and the presence of a well-marked, rough, oval area about the middle of its outer surface and lower border for part of the first, and the whole of the second digitation of the serratus magnus muscle. The head has two facets,-and the angle' is close to' the tubercle posteriorly. Tlie tenth rib has usually only a single articular facet on the liead. The eleventli and twelfth ribs are recognised by their length. Their heads, Fig. 74. -First and Second Right Ribs as seen FROJi Above.