UEOGENITAL SYSTEM. 1110 close to the middle line aud immediately above the prostate. Inferioily, the vesicle l)ecomes constricted to form a short duct (ductus excretorius), which joins the outer side of the corresponding vas deferens at an acute angle to form the common ejaculatory duct. The inner side of each vesicle is related to the vas deferens, and the outer side, when the bladder is empty, lies close to the sloping pelvic floor. The seminal vesicle often assumes a more vertical position wlien the bladder is distended, a more horizontal one when the l)ladder is empty. Its upper end is sometimes found to be curved backwards against the side of the rectum. The seminal vesicles are in some cases much smaller than usual, and may be even less than one inch in length. They are often unsymmetrical. The seminal vesicles are more intimately related to the wall of the l)ladder than to that of the rectum—their upper ends are separated from the rectum Ijy a portion of the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum, while lower down the septum of fascia which intervenes between the vesiculce seminales and the rectum is denser than that which separates them from the bladder. The vesicula seminalis is in reality a tul)e bent in a tortuous manner on itself, and if the dense connective tissue which envelops it be taken away, the length of the tube when untwisted may be found to be as much as five inches. The tube is closed above, and a number of short tortuous branches come off it at different levels. The development of the vesiculse seminales shows that they are to be looked upon as diverticula of the vasa deferentia, from which they originally arise as small pouches. Fig. 756.—The Bl.\dder, Prostate, and Seminal Vesicle viewed from the Side. Drawn from specimens hardened in situ. In A the bladder contained l)ut a small amount of fluid ; in B the quantity was .somewhat greater. The dense tissue in wliicli the seminal vesicles are embedded contains much unstriped muscle, which, sweeping round in the side wall of the recto-vesical pouch, gains an attachment to the fascia in front of the sacrum. Tlie large veins coming from the prostatic and vesical plexuses are closely related to the seminal vesicles. Structure of the Vas Deferens and Vesicula Seminalis.—Except near its termination, where it is dilated to form the ampulla, tlie vas deferens is a thick- walled tube with relatively a very small lumen. The hard cord-like sensation which the vas deferens conveys to the touch is due to the thickness and toughness of its wall, which is composed of three layers—an outer fibrous (tunica adventitia), an intermediate muscular (tunica muscularis), and an inner mucous coat (tunica mucosa). The thickness of the wall is due to the great development of the middle or muscular coat, which is composed of an inner layer of circularly and an outer layer of longitudinally directed unstriped muscular fibres. Near the beginning of the vas there is an inner longitudinal layer also. The mucous membrane of the vas exhibits a few longitudinal folds. The ampulla, or terminal part, possesses much thinner waUs, and, as the surface of its mucous membrane has a number of ridges separating depressed areas, the lining of the tube presents a pitted or honey- combed appearance. The wall of the vesicula seminalis resembles that of the ampulla in l)eing thin, and in having a mucous lining with uneven honeycomb-liko ridges and depressions. In the wall of the seminal vesicle the same coats are to be recognised as in the vas, but the muscular stratum is much thinner.