THE LAltGE INTESTINE. 102:'. measured akiiig Ilie gut, tlie gicatetit distance l)eiiig 12 i'eet, and tlie smallest 6 iuclies. Tu 52 si)eeimens the a\'erage leiigtli was 2-1 inches, the longest being 5j inches, the shortest h inch. The diameter usually e([uals tliat of the intestine from which it springs; hut occasionally it is cord-like, and ])ervious only for a short way ; on the other hand, it may attain a diameter of 3| inches. (The foj-egoing results have been compiled from the I'ejioi'ts of The Collective, Investigation of the Anatomical Society of Great Britain and Ireland—L. J. Mitchell, Kelynack, Rogie, and Augier.) Vessels and Nerves of the Jejunum and Ileum.—The arteries for both the jejunum and ileum—the \-asa intestini tenuis—come from the superior mesenteric, and are contained between the two layers of the mesentery. Aftei- breaking u]i and forming three tiers of arches, the ter- luinal fminches (Fig. 683) reach the intestine, w here they bifurcate, giving a liraiich to each .side of the gut. These latter run transversely I'ound the intestines, at first under the peritoneal coat ; soon, however, they pierce the muscular ccjat and form a plexus in the submucosa, from which numerous branches pass to the mucous membrane, where some form plexuses around the glands, of Lieljerkiihn. whilst others pass to the villi. The veins are similarly disjiosed, and the blood from the whole of the small intestine beyond the dtiodenum is jvtui-ned by the su])erior mesenteric vein, which joins with the splenic to form the jwrtal vein. 'J'he lymphatics of the small intestine (known as lacteals) l)egin in the villi, and also as lym])hatic sinuses suri'ounding the leases of the solitary glands ; a large i)lexus is formed in the submucosa, a second between the two layers of the muscular coat, and a third beneath the jieritoneum. The vessels from all these jiass up in the I'uesentery, l)eing connected on the way with the numerous (from 40 to 150) mesenteric-glands, and finally unite to form one, or a few, intestinal lymphatic trunks, which ojien into the receptaculum chyli. The nerves conn; frouL the solar jilexus, through the suj.erior mesenteric, which latter accomjianies the superior mesenteric artery lietween the layers (.)f the mesentery, and thus reaches the intestine. Some of the fil)res are derived ultimately from the right vagus. The ner^'e-hbres are non-medullated, anrl form, as in other jiarts of the canal, two gangliated ])lexuses—that of Auerliach in the muscular coat, and the plexus of Meissner in the .sub- mucosa. Structure.—'i'lie serous coat is complete in all parts of the jejiuuun and ileum, 'i'he muscular coat is much thicker in the jejumim, and grows gradually thinner as it is traced down along the ileum. The submucosa contains the bases of the solitary glands (Fig. 6(^4), but otherwise calls for no s[)ecial remark. The mucous coat is thicker and redder above, in the jejunum, thinner and paler in the ileum. It is covered throughout by villi, which are said to be shorter and broader in the jejunum, longer and narrower in the ileum. In its whole extent it is closely beset with Lieberktihn's follicles, and numei'ous solitary glands are seen projecting on its surface. Peyer's patches are particularly large and numerous in the ileum; they ai'e fewer, smaller, and usually circula)-, in the jejunum. Finally, the mucous membrane forms valvuhe conniventes, which are largest in the jejunum ; they are smaller and fewer in the upper part of tiie ileum, and usually disappear a little below its middle. THE LAEGE INTESTINE. The ileum is succeeded by the large intestine (intestiniun crassum). whicli begins on the right side, some 2h inches lielow the ileo-cfecal junction, and com- prises the following parts :— 1. The csecum, a wide short cul-de-sac, consisting of the portion of the large 1)0wel l)elow the ileo-c;ecal junction. It lies in the right iliac region, and from its inner and back part a worm-shaped outgrowth, the vermiform process, is pro- longed (Fig. 691). 2. The ascending colon extends from tlie caecum, up in the riglit side of the a))domen, to the liver: here the gut bends to the left, forming the hepatic flexure, wliich connects the ascending colon to the transverse colon. 3. The transverse colon is a long loop of intestine which arches across the abdominal cavity in an irregular manner. It ends at the lower extremity of the spleen, where it turns downward, forming the splenic flexure, and passes into the descending colon. 4. The descending colon runs down on the left side, from the splenic flexure to the iliac crest. 5. The iliac colon extends from the crest of the ilium to the brim of the pelvis, wliere it is succeeded by the pelvic colon. 6. Tlie pelvic colon is a large loop of intestine which-is usually found in the pelvis. The iliac and pelvic portions of the colon taken together are commonly described as the sigmoid Jlexure of the colon.