THE MOEPHOLOGY OF THE OKANIAL NEEVES. 661 arches and clefts makes it possible to understand tlie innervation by tbe vagus of the heart and lungs, no satisfactory explanation is forthcoming of the piassage of the nerve into the abdomen, and its distribution to the stomach and other organs below the diaphragm. The spinal accessory nerve consists of two parts. The accessory portion of the nerve consists of efferent fibres for the branchial region, in series with the lateral motor roots of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus nerves. The spinal portion of the nerve is also composed of efferent fibres, and represents the only lateral motor elements in relation to the spinal cord. Olfactory Nerve. — There is absolute uncertainty regarding the morphology of this nerve. It consists of three existing elements—(1) the olfactory bulb, derived from the cerebral hemi- sphere, solid in man, but a hollow cerebral diverticulum in certain animals, and forming the rhinencephalon; (2) the olfactory ganglion, with its central and peripheral processes, derived from the ectoderm ; (3) the nasal pit. Attention has been specially fixed on the olfactory ganglion, which has been compared to (1) a dorsal spinal ganglion, derived from the anterior end of the medullary groove ; and to (2) a lateral line sense-organ. The optic nerve also presents an insoluble problem in regard to its morphological position in the series of cranial nerves. The optic stalk and optic cup have been regarded as a highly- modified dorsal ganglion; but there is insuperable difiiculty in accepting this view. The peripheral processes do not become connected with either ectodermal or mesoblastic structures, but become the tissue of the retina; while the central processes, growing backwards, envelop the optic stalk, and obtain connexions with the brain. The retina must be regarded as a highly-modified layer, morphologic- ally in series with the wall of the fore- brain ; and the ectodermal structure of superficial origin comparable to the olfactory ganglion or the auditory vesicle is the lens (which may possibly be homo- logous with a lateral line sense-organ). The optic nerve, optic commissure, and optic tract are then to be looked upon as cerebral commissures, and not nerves in the ordinary sense. The simplest and most primitive con- dition of the head, in relation to the morphology of the cranial nerves, is found before the formation of the gill-clefts, when the salient features are a tubular and simple brain, and a series of super- ficial invaginations which pass from the surface inwards to become connected with outgrowths corresponding to them from the primitive brain. On either side of the head three hollow invaginations occur. (1) The nasal pit bearing the Fig- 474.—Scheme to illustrate the Embrtological olfactory epithelium becomes connected Arrangement of the Cranial Nerves. by the olfactory ganglion with the rhin- I. to XII. Cranial nerves ; Fr, Froriep's ganglion ; C.I, Roots encephalon, an outgrowth from the fore- and trunk of the first cervical nerve, brain, and so forms the basis of an olfactory organ and nerve; (2) a similar invagination produces the lens, connected with a protrusion of the optic vesicle from the fore-brain, by which the basis of the eye and the optic nerve is formed; (3) behind the buccal cavity a third invagination forms the auditory vesicle, which is connected with the solid extension from the hind-brain of the acoustic ganglia, to form the essentials of the organ of hearing and the auditory nerve. The trigeminal nerve is essentially the nerve of the buccal cavity, and the subordinate cavities, nasal and oral, derived from it. The branchial arches and clefts are secondary struc- tures, and their nerves are (1) the trigeminal for the first (mandibular) arch and the cleft in front of it; (2) the facial for the second (hyoid) arch and cleft; (3) the glosso-pharyngeal for the third (thyro-hyoid) arch and cleft; and (4) the pneumogastric for the succeeding arches and clefts. The bulbar part of the spinal accessory nerve is inseparable from the motor portion of the vago- glosso-pharyngeal nerves ; the spinal part is beyond the series of the cranial nerves. Lastly, there are certain truly segmental nerve elements, motor fibres which, remaining associated with certain persistent cephalic myotomes, give rise to the oculo-motor, trochlear, abducent, and hypoglossal nerves.