1099 THE BLAPDEE. plicae uretericse traverse! the lil minute radially and are ])r()dueed l)y ulder wall (Fiy. 747). lisposed Inlds wliich, disappearing into the urethra, l)ecome the terminal parts of tlie ureters as they Eound the urethral oritice are a numljer of continuous with the longitudinal folds of the of the first The ureters wall very the miniite mucous memhrane part of that canal, pierce the 1 tiadder oliliquely, and so opening (orificiuni ureteris) of each has an elliptical outline. In the empty 1 (ladder the urethral orifice and the open- ings of the two ureters lie at the angles of an approximately equilateral triangle, wiiose sides are about one inch in length. When the bladder is distended, the distance between the open- ings may be increased to one and a half inches or more. Peritoneal Relations and Connexions seen that the superior surface of the empty coat Ridge coiiiifctiiig ureters Fl(!. 747. View of THE INTERIOU of THE Bl.ADDEH IN THE OF THE UhETHRAL ORIFICE. of the Bladder.—We have already ladder is covered by peritoneum, which leaves it along the lateral border on each side to reacih the pelvic wall about the level of the white line (arcus tendineus) of the pelvic fascia. To this peritoneal reflexion the term lateral false (or peritoneal) ligament is usually ap])lied. The lateral ligaments of o})posite sides are continuous in front at the bladder apex, in which position the peritoneum is conducted over the fibrous cord of the urachus to reach the anterior abdominal wall, forming the so-called anterior false (or peritoneal) ligament. When the bladder is empty the level of this anterior reflexion lies just behind or just l)elow the upper margin of the symjihysis pubis. When the bladder becomes filled the level of the peritoneal reflexion forming the anterior false ligament is raised upwards, and may reach a point two inches or more above the upper margin of the symphysis pubis. Similarly, the line along which the lateral peritoneal ligament reaches the pelvic wall is also carried upwards in distension of the bladder, and may reach the level of the vas deferens or of the obliterated hypogastric artery. When the bladder is empty the peritoneum is carried downwards upon the side wall of the pelvis as low as the lateral border of the organ, and lines a groove or depression in this position which receives the name of paravesical fossa. As the bladder fills the peritoneum is raised off this fossa, and certain structures, such as the obturator vessels and nerves and the vas deferens, which lie iu the floor of the fossa, come into direct relationship with the side wall of the distended bladder. Posteriorly the peritoneum leaves the upper surface of the empty l)ladder at its posterior l:)order, and is carried backwards, forming a kind of horizontal shelf or fold for a distance of about half-an-inch, giving at the same time a partial cover- ing to the vasa deferentia and upper ends of the seminal vesicles. The peritoneum then suddenly dips downwards to reach the bottom of the recto-vesical pouch, where it is reflected on to the anterior surface of the rectum (Fig. 749). As a rule, no part of the l)asal surface of the contracted and empty Itladder receives a cover- ing from the peritoneum, since tlie seminal vesicles and terminal portions of the vasa deferentia intervene as they lie in the anterior wall of the recto-vesical pouch. When the bladder is distended the posterior border, separating tlie upper and basal surfaces, is rounded out, and the peritoneum forming the horizontal shelf, just described, is taken up (compare Figs. '36 and 738). It is to be specially noted that the level of the peritoneal reflexion, forming the •bottom of the recto-vesical pouch, does not alter to any considerable extent in distension of the 1 (ladder (Figs. 737 and 738). An exaniiiiation of mesial section!? of tlie pelvis shows the great danger run by the ampnlla3 of the vasa deferentia in the operation of jiunctnring the bladder through the anterior wall of the rectum, while avoiding at the same time injury to the peritoneum.