THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 590 perforates the deep fascia on the inner side of the arm, and is distributed to the skin of the upper lialf or more of the upper arm in its inner side. The nerve varies considerably in size. It may be absent, its jilace being taken by branches of the intercosto-humeral or by brandies from the internal cutaneous branch of the musculo- spiral. It generally bears a distinct relation in size to the intercosto-humeral, due to the fact that the size of the latter depends upon tlie size of the part of the second thoracic nerve con- nected with the first in the thorax. If an intra-thoracic connexion occurs between the first and second thoracic nerves, the intercosto-humeral may be deprived of a certain number of its fibres, which in that case reach the upper limb through the lesser internal cutaneous nerve. When traced up to the plexus tlie lesser internal cutaneous is found to have an origin from the back of the cord formed by the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves, and usually receives fibres from the first thoracic nerve only. In cases wliere " axillary arches " are present they may be supplied by this nerve. Circumflex Nerve. The circumflex nerve (n. axillaris), at its origin is just below the supra- scapular and comes from the same spinal nerves—the fifth and sixth cervical nerves (Fig. 429, p. 581). Extending downwards and outwards behind.the axillary artery, it leaves the axilla by passing round the external border of the subscapularis muscle, in company with the posterior circumflex artery, in a quadrilateral space bounded by the humerus, subscapularis, triceps (long head), and teres major. Winding round the surgical neck of the humerus from within outwards, it terminates under the deltoid by supplying that muscle (Fig. 434, p. 589). Branches.—Muscular branches are supplied to the teres minor and deltoid muscles. The nerve to the teres minor enters the outer side of the muscle. It possesses a pseudo-ganglion, a thickening of fibrous tissue, on its trunk. Articular branches enter the back part of the capsule of the shoulder joint. A cutaneous branch (n. cutaneus brachii lateralis) of considerable size passes obliquely downwaids and forwards from beneath the deltoid muscle, becoming superficial at its posterior border. Sometimes the branches pierce the muscle. It supplies the skin over the insertion of the deltoid and the iipper half of the arm on the outer side (Fig. 433, p. 588). Musculo-Spiral Nerve. The musculo-spiral nerve (n. radialis) appears to be the continuation into the upper limb of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus. It usually takes origin from all the nerves which form the posterior cord—the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves (Fig. 429, p. 581). In a minority of cases the first thoracic contributes a few fibres, and more frequently the fifth cervical nerve is excluded from it. It extends from the axilla round the back of the humerus to the bend of the elbow, where it ends by dividing into its terminal branches. In the axilla it lies behind the axillary artery, in front of the subscapularis, teres major, and latissimus dorsi muscles. In the arm, in the upper third, it lies on the inner side of the humerus behind the brachial artery, and upon the long head of the triceps. In the middle third of the arm it courses obliquely outwards and downwards in the spiral groove of the humerus, along with the superior profunda artery, separating the long, external, and internal heads of the triceps muscle (Fig. 434, p. 589). In the lower third of the arm, piercing the upper part of the intermuscular septum at the outer border of the triceps muscle, it descends to the bend of the elbow in front of the external condyle of the humerus, in the interval between the brachio-radialis and brachialis anticus muscles. Under cover of the former muscle, in the hollow of the elbow, it divides into its two terminal brandies, the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. The collateral branches are in three sets, arising (a) on the inner side, (h) on •the back, and (c) on the outer side of the humerus (Fig. -135). Branches arising internal to the humerus.—1. Internal cutaneous (n. cutaneus brachii posterior).—This branch, arising in connnon with one of the following, or independently, pierces the fascia on tlie inner side of the arm near the axilla. It supplies the skin of the inner side of the arm in the upY>er third, above and l)ehind the area supplied hy the lesser internal cutaneous nerve (Fig. 433, p. 588). This