THE FIFTH, TRIGEMINAL OE TEIFACIAL NERVE. 639 crosses the optic nerve two long ciliary branches (nn. ciliaris longi) arise, and pass forwards alongside the optic nerve to the eyeball, (c) On the inner side of the optic nerve the infra-trochlear nerve (n. infra-trochlearis) arises, a slender branch which courses forward beneath the pulley of the superior oblique muscle to the front of the orbit. It ends on the face by supplying the skin of the root of the nose and the eyelids, and communicates either in the orbit or on the face with the supra-trochlear nerve. On the face it also communicates with infra-orbital branches of the facial nerve. In the nose the internal nasal branch supplies the mucous membrane of the fore part of the nasal septum; the external nasal branch supplies the fore part of the outer wall of the nose. On the face the terminal filaments of the nerve are distributed to the skin of tiie lower half and tip of the nose. The superficial terminal branch communicates with the infra-orbital branches of the facial nerve (Fig. 458). The ciliary or lenticular ganglion (ganglion ciliare) is associated with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve and with the lower division of the third nerve. It is a small reddish ganglion, placed between the external rectus muscle Lachrymal gland Frontal nerve Siipra-orbital nerve Lachrymal nerve Nerves to superior rectus and levator palpebrse superioris, from oculo-motor nerve, superior division Trochlear nerve Rectus internum Abducent nerve - Oculo-uiotor nerve (inferior _ division) Lienlicular ganglion — Nerve to rectus inferior, from oculo-motor nerve Nerve to obliquus inferior, from oculo-motor nerve Supra-trochlear nerve Levator palpebrse superioiis Rectus superior s—- Obliquus superior \ Nasal nerve Infra-trochlear nerve |~~Rectus interuus I Nerve to rectus interuus from oculo-motor Ophthalmic artery Optic nerve Large ciliary nerves Rectus inferior Uljliquus inferior Fig. 460.—Schematic Rbpkesentation of the Nerves which traverse the C.4.vity of the Orbit. and the optic nerve, and in front of the ophthalmic artery. Its roots are three in number: (1) sensory or long (radix longa), derived from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve; (2) motor or short (radix brevis), derived from the inferior division of the third nerve; and (3) sympathetic, a slender filament from the cavernous plexus on the internal carotid artery, which may exist as an independent root or may be incorporated with the long root from the nasal nerve. The branches from the ganglion are twelve to fifteen short ciliary nerves (nn. ciliares breves), which pass to the eyeball in two groups above and below the optic nerve. They supply the coats of the eyeball, including the iris'and ciliary muscles. The circular ^res of the iris and the ciliary muscle are innervated by the third nerve; the radial fibres of the iris- by the sympathetic. Superior Maxillary Division of the Fifth Nerve (n. maxillaris).—This large nerve courses forwards from its origin in the Gasserian ganglion through the middle fossa of the base of the skull, beneath the dura mater, and in relation to the lower part of the cavernous sinus (Fig. 455, p. 635). Passing through the foramen rotundum in the root of the pterygoid process, it traverses the spheno-maxillary fossa. It enters the orbit as the infra-orbital nerve, through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and occupying successively the infra-orbital groove and canal, it finally appears on the face through the infra-orbital foramen (Fig. 461). The branches and communications of this nerve occur (a) in the cavity of the cranium, (&) in the spheno-maxillary fossa, (c) in the infra-orbital canal, and (d) on the face.'