OSTEOLOGY. 228 May appeal- Appears independently before birtli about 11 vears Fuses witli shaft al)Out •20-24 years Ijase on wliicli the ft'iiiur can luovu. Such platycnemic tibite are occasionally met with in the more highly civilised races, and are, according to Manoiivrier, associated with habits of great activity among the inhabitants of rough and mountainous districts. Another interesting condition is one in which the upjjer extremity is more strongly recurved than is usual. This retroversion of the head of the tibia was at one time supposed to represent an intermediate condition in whicli tlie knee could not Ijc fully extended so as to bi'ing the axis of the leg in line with the thigh ; but such opinion has now been upset l)y the researches of iManouvrier, who claims that it is tlie outcome of a habit not uncommon amongst peasants and countrymen, viz. that of walking habitually with the knees slightly Ijeut. Hal)itual jiosture also leaves its impress on the form of the tibia, and in races in which the use of the cliair is unknown, the extreme degree of flexion of the knee and ankle necessitated by the adoption of the squatting position as an attitude of haljitual rest is associated with an increase in the convexity of the external condylic surface, and the aj^pearance, not infrequently, of a pressure facet on the anterior lioi-der of the lower extremity, which rests in that jiosition on the neck of tlie astragalus. Cases of congenital absence of the tiljia have been fre- quently described, amongst the most recent being those recorded by Glutton, •roachimstlial. Bland Sutton, and Waitz. Ossification.—The shaft begins to ossify early in the second month of intra-uterine life. At birth it is well formed, and capped above and below by pieces of cartilage, in the upper of which the centre for the superior epipliysi^ has already usually made its appearance. From this the tuberosities and tubercle are developed, though sometimes an independent centre for the latter appears about the eleventh or twelfth years, rapidly joining with the already well - developed mass of the rest of tlie epiphysis. Complete fusion be- tween the superior epiphysis and the shaft does not take place until the twentieth or the twenty-fourth year. The centre for the lower articular surface and the internal malleolus makes its appearance about the end of the second year, and union with the shaft is usually complete by the age of eighteen. Lambertz notes the occasional presence of an accessory nucleus in the malleolus. Appears about \\ years Fuses about bsth year .'Vt birth. About 12 years. About 16 year.- Fi(!. 169.—Ossification of thk Tibia. The Fibula. The fibula, or peroneal bone, is a slender bone with two enlarged ends. It lies to the outer side of the tibia, with which it is firmly united by ligaments, and nearly equals that bone in length. The first difficulty which the student has to overcome is to determine which is the upper and which the lower extremity of the bone. This can easily be done by recognising the fact tliat there is a deep pit on the inner aspect of the lower extremity immediately behind the triangular articular surface. Holding the bone vertically Avith the lower extremity downwards and so turned that the triangular articular area lies in front of the notch already spoken of, the subcutaneous non-articular asj)ect of the inferior extremity will jioint to the side to which the bone belongs. The superior extremity or head of the fibula (capitulum fibulte), of irregular rounded form, is bevelled on its inner surface so as to adapt it to the form of the under surface of the external tuberosity of the tibia. At the border, where this surface becomes confluent with the outer aspect of the head, there is a pointed upstanding eminence called the styloid process (apex capittth fibular); to this tlie short external lateral ligament is attached, as well as a piece of the tendon of the biceps, which is inserted into its fore-part. Immediately to the inner side of this, and occupying the summit of the internal sloping surface, there is an articular area (facies articularis capituli), of variable size and more or less triangular shape. This