1060 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. left nipiile. If these pdiiits lie joineil liy three lines, slightly concave towards the liver, they will <j;ive the outline of the organ with snfMcient accuracy for all ordinary piirposes. (For variations in position see p. 1067.) Or in more detail:—if the two "nipple points" («) and (c) 1)6 joined by a line, .sliglitly convex ujiwards on eacli .side, bnt a little depressed at the centre corres])onding to the position of the heart, and crossing the lower end of the sternnni ahout the level of the sixth cartilage, it will mark the upi)er limit. A line, convex outwards, from the right nipple ])oiiit («) to the sulico.stal point will indicate the right limit, while the lower limit is marked hy a line, convex downwards, drawn from the subcostal point to the left nipple point {<•), and ])as.sing thi'ough a point half-way between the luubilicus and the lower end of the gladiolus, in the middle line. The line indicating the upper limit of the liver is elevated on each side, corresponding to the cupohe of the diaphragm, and dejiressed in the centre Ijeneath the heart. On the right side wliere highest, namely, about one inch (25 mm.), internal to the mammary line, it reaches during expiration to the upper border of the tifth rib ; on the left side it is one-half to three-quarters of an inch (12 to 18 mm.) lower; and it crosses behind the sternum at the level of the sixth sterno- costal junction—or sometimes lower. It must be rcmemljered, however, that, whilst the liver reaches up to the levels just given, it does so only at the highest part of its convex jjarietal surface, and is sejjar'ated from the riljs all round by the thin lower margin of the lung (which extends down l)etween the che.st wall and diaphragm to the sixth rib in front, to the eighth in the nud- lateral line, and to the level of the tip of the spine of the tenth dorsal vertebra behind), so that, in percussing over the liver, its dulness is olwcured by the resonance of the lungs above these points. Weight and Size.—The liver usually weighs from three to three and a quarter pounds, or ahout ^V^^^ of the body weight. The average size of the liver may be l)riefly expressed as follows :—It measures in the trans- verse direction about seven inches (17'5 cm.); in the vertical, six to seven inches (15 to 17'5 cm.); and in the autero-posterior, on the right side wliej'e greatest, about six inches (15 cm.) Its greatest width, measured obliquely from side to side along the inferior or visceral surface, is ten inches (25 cm.) Its weight ordinarily varies between fifty and fifty-tive ounces in the male, and between forty- three and forty-eight in the female, with an average for the two sexes of about forty-nine ounces, or a little over three pound.s. It corresponds to about ^ath of the body weight in the adult; whilst at birth it is relatively twice as large (^'iz. ^'^th or of the body weight), and in the early fa3tus very much larger. The ])rop()rtion of the right to the left lobe'is very variable, l)ut is usually about as 4 to 1 ; at birth it is about as 2 or 3 to 1. Relations and Surfaces.—The liver, as already pointed out, possesses two chief surfaces, the parietal lying in contact with the abdominal parietes, and the visceral resting on the abdominal viscera. Parietal Surface.—In conformity with the shape of the upper portion of the abdominal cavity which it occupies, the parietal surface (Fig. 715) is convex in general outline, and, taken as a whole, lies against the diaphragm, except below and in front, where it projects from beneath the ribs (Fig. 714), and comes in contact with the anterior abdominal wall for about two or three inches (5'0 to 7'5 cm.) below the xiphi-sternal articidation. It is completely covered by peritoneum, except iH'hind at the 'uncovered area," where it comes into direct relation with the diaphragm; and it is divided into right and l^ft lobe-portions l)y the attach- ment of the falciform ligament—a fold of peritoneum which connects it to the diaphragm and anterior abdominal wall. As the space which the liver occupies is bounded l)y the anterior, the right, and the posterior walls of the abdomen, as well as Ijy the roof, we can distinguish on its parietal surface, which lies against, and takes its shape from, these walls, four corresponding "areas," namely (a) the superior, (h) the anterior, (c) the right, and {d) the posterior areas of the parietal surface. Of these the posterior area is the most important, and must be described in greater detail than the others. Posterior Area, or back, of the Parietal Surface.—This portion of the parietal surface (which corresponds to the posterior surface of His) is directed back- wards, and lies in contact with the diaphragm, here passing down on the posterior al)dominal wall. It is very irregular in shape, and presents from right to left the following parts:—(1) The "uncovered area" of the right lobe; (2) the suprarenal impression; (3) the fossa of tlie vena cava; (4) the Spigelian lobe, separated by the fissure of the ductus venosus from (5) the oesophageal groove, which belongs to the left lobe.