SPINAL COED. IPoslero-mediau fissure" Cervical swelling- Posterior para-_ median fissure Postero-lateral_ fissure —CVi -CVv -DVii time it must be noted that these two median clefts present many pomts 'oi differ- ence. The antero-median fissure (fissura mediana anterior) is for the grea^ter part of its length much shallower than the postero-median fissure. In the cervical and dorsal regions it only penetrates for a distance corresponding to somewhat less than a third of the antero-posterior diameter of the cord. Further, the antero- median cleft is much the wider and more apparent of the two, and the pia mater dips down into it and forms a fold or reduplication within it. The postero-medi?,n fissure (fissura mediana posterior) in the cervical and dorsal regions pene- trates into the cord until it reaches a point somewhat beyond its centre. It is extremely narrow, and contains a single septum which is derived from ependymal and neuroglial elements, aad is intimately connected with the adjacent sides of the two halves of the cord, between which it intervenes. The pia mater, which invests the surface of the cord, passes continuously over the postero- median fissure and sends no prolongation of any kind into it. In the lumbar region of the cord the postero-median fissure becomes shallower, whilst the antero-median fissure deepens, and ultimately in the lower part of the cord the two fissures present a very nearly equal depth. The two halves of the cord, which are marked off from each other by the median fissures, may show trifling differ- ences in the arrangement of the parts which compose them; but to all intents and purposes they are symmetrical. They are joined together by a more or less broad band or com- missure, which intervenes between the two median fissures. An inspection of the surface of each lateral half of the cord brings into view a longitudinal groove or furrow, at some little distance from the postero-median cleft, which extends along the whole length of the cord. Along the bottom of this groove the fascicles of the posterior nerve- roots enter the cord in accurate linear order. It is called the postero-lateral sulcus (sulcus lateralis posterior). There is no corresponding furrow on the forepart of each lateral half of the cord in connexion with the emergence of the fascicles of the anterior nerve-roots. These fascicles emerge irregularly over a broad strip of the surface of the cord, which corresponds in its width to the thickness of the subjacent extremity of the anterior horn of gray matter. The postero-lateral groove subdivides each lateral half of the cord into a small posterior column (funiculus posterior) and a much larger antero-lateral column, and it is customary to arbitrarily map off the latter into a lateral column (funi- culus lateralis) and an anterior column, (fimiculus anterior)] by a line corresponcUng to the emergence of the outermost fascicles of the anterior nerve-roots.. In the cervical region a distinct longitudinal groove may be observed on the' surface of the posterior column. It is placed rather nearer tO' the postero-median than to the- posterorlateral furrow,, and as it is. traced down into, the dorsal region it gradually becomes indistinct and finally dis- appears. This is called the posterior paramedian groove, and, it marks on the surface the position of a septum of pia mater which dips into the cord and subdivides the posterior column into an. outer part, termed the funiculus cuneatus or the column of Burdach, and an inner portion, which, receives funiculus gracilis, or th.e aoJumn, of. GolL -DVx Lumbar swelling- —DVxii -LVii FiG. 318.—Diagram, of the. Spinal Cord a? seen, from behind., CVi shows tjie level of the 1st cervical vertebra; CVv, of the, 5th cervical;vertelM'a ; bVii of tile 2u(J dorsal vertebra; DVx of the ICth dorsal vertebra; DVxii of the 12tli dorsal ver- tebra ; LVu of the 2nd lumbar vertebra. the ijame of the