23 THE NOTOCHOED. including the proamniotic part in those animals in which it exists, is the amniotic area, and this is bounded externally by a band of elevated and thickened ectoderm, which indicates the placental area. The latter, together with the blastoderm over the rest of the ovum, forms the chorionic area, which is separable, therefore, into placental and non-placental portions. These areas are further referred to in the description of the folding off of the embryo and the formation of the foetal membranes and placenta. Formation of the Notochord.-—The notochord is the primitive skeletal axis of the embryo. When differentiated it forms a rod which intervenes between the ectodermal neural tube and the entoderm of the primitive alimentary canal. It is developed from the entoderm beneath the neural groove in the notochordal area. A linear strip of entoderm thickens and then separates as a solid rod of cells, the continuity of the entodermal layer being restored beneath it. When it is completed the notochord extends from a point immediately behind the primitive forebrain, and beneath the anterior end of the midbrain, to the anterior end of the primitive streak, and in later stages, as the skeleton is formed, the notochord can be traced from the post-sphenoid section of the base of the skull, which is situated beneath the mid- brain, to the tip of the coccyx. The separation of the notochord from the entoderm commences in the cervical region, and extends forwards and backwards. The anterior extremity is the last part to be detached, the separation occurring shortly after the perforation and disappear- ance of the bucco-pharyngeal membrane. The cellular notochord develops a cuticular sheath ; it is subsequently surrounded by mesoderm which separates it both from the neural tube and the entoderm, c Fig. ,17.—Extension of Mesoderm and Formation op Ccelom (Diagrammatic). A. Mesoderm spreading from tlie sides of the ectodermal primitive streak, and extending between the ectoderm and entoderm. B. Further extension of tlie mesoderm and appearance of coelomic cleft-like spaces. C. Complete delamination of the mesoderm and formation of coelom. BC. Blastodermic cavity. C. Coelom. EC. Ectoderm. EN. Entoderm. M. Mesoderm. P. Primitive Streak. SoP. Somatoplenre. SpP. Splanchnopleure. and which is ultimately transformed into the vertebrae and their ligaments, the intervertebral discs, the basi-sphenoid and basi-occipital parts of the skull, and the membranes of the brain and cord. As the surrounding mesoderm is differentiated the notochord becomes nodulated ;