OSTEOLOGY. 136 The Vomer. The vomer, a bone of irregular quadrilateral shape, is placed mesially in the hinder part of the nasal septum. It has four borders and two surfaces. The superior border, which can readily be distinguished by the presence on either side of an everted lip or ala, slopes from beliind upwards and forwards, and articulates with the under surface of the body of the sphenoid, tlie pointed rostrum of which it receives in the groove formed by the projecting alpe. Laterally these alse are wedged in between the sphenoidal processes of the palate bone in front, and the vaginal processes ^at the root of the in- ternal pterygoid plates behind. The posterior border, which slopes from behind downwards and forwards, is free, and forms a sharp, slightly-curved edge; this constitutes the posterior margin of the nasal septum, and serves to separate the openings of the posterior nares. The inferior border, more or less horizontal in direction, articulates with the nasal crest formed by the superior maxillary and palate bones. The anterior edge is the longest; it slopes obliquely from above downwards and forwards. In its upper half it is ankylosed to the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid; in its lower half this margin is grooved for the reception of the septal cartilage of the nose. The anterior extremity of the bone forms a truncated angle, which articulates with the hinder border of the incisor crest of the superior maxilhe, and sends downwards a pointed process which passes between the incisor foramina. The right and left surfaces of the bone are smooth, and covered by mucous membrane. It is not uncommon to find them deflected to one or other side. A few vascular grooves may be noticed scattered over these surfaces, and one, usually more distinct than the others, running obliquely down- wards and forwards, indicates the course of the nasopalatine nerve. Connexions.—The vomer articulates with the sphenoid, the ethmoid, the palates, and the superior maxilhe. In front it supports the septal cartilage. Architecture.—The bone is composed of two compact layers fused below, but separated above by the groove for the lodgment of the rostrum of the splienoid behind, and the septal cartilage in front. The lamellae are also sepai'ated from each other by a canal which runs horizontally from behind forwards in the substance of the bone, and which transmits the nutrient vessel of the bone. Variations.—Owing to imperfect ossification there may be a deficiency in the bone, filled up during life by cartilage. The sejjaration of the two lamellae along the anterior border varies considerably, and instances are recorded where they were separated by a considerable cavity within the substance of the bone. The splieno-vomerine canal is a minute oj^ening behind the rostrum of the sphenoid, and between it and the alse of the vomer, by which the nutrient artery enters the bone. Ossification.—The vomer, primitively double, begins to ossify about the end of the second month of fa^tal life. A nucleus- appears on either side in the membrane overlying the back and lower part of the vomerine cartilage ; these form the primitive lamellae developed on either side of, and not from, the cartilage. About the third month these laminre become fused behind and below, thus forming a deep groove in which the cai-tilage is lodged. As growth goes on the groove becomes reduced by the further fusion of the lateral plates, and the absorption of the cartilage, until the age of puberty, by which time the lateral laminse have united to form a mesial plate, the primitively divided con- dition of which is now only represented by the eversion of tlie alse, and the grooving along the anterior border. The Palate Bones. The palate bone (os palatmum), of irregular shape, assists in the formation of the outer wall of the l)ack part of the nasal fossae, the posterior portion of the hard palate, the orbit, the spheno-maxillary, zygomatic, and the pterygoid fossae. It Palate Superior maxilla Fig. 107.—Vomer as seen from the Right Side.