1008 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. pliagus. Over the great curvature and ou the two surfaces tliey are present as au extremely thin and irregular sheet. Towards tiie pylorus the longitudinal fibres grow much thickei-, and also much tougher and more closely iniited, but they do not take any part in the formation of the pyloric valve. A specially-condensed l^and of these can be often made out both on the front and back at the antrum pylori, the form of which is said to be due to their presence. These bands are known as the jiyloric ligaments (liga- menta pylori). The middle layer (stratum cir- culare) is composed mainly of circular fibres, continuous with the more superficial of the circular fibres at the lower end of the oesophagus (Fig. 680, B). They do not commence as a series of circular bundles sur- rounding the fundus, as usually described. On the contrary, they begin as a set of U-shaped bundles which loop over the lesser curvature at the right of the cardia, and pass downwards and to tlie left on both surfaces. Further to the right these looped fibres are succeeded by circles wdiich surround the organ completely. Traced towards the narrow end of the stomach, the circular bundles grow thicker, and at the pylorus they undergo a further increase, giving rise to the pyloric sphincter which surrounds the orifice as a thick muscular ring. On the gastric side the pyloric sphincter passes gradually into the thick circular fibres of the pyloric portion of the stomach. On the opposite side it ceases abruptly, only its outer part being continued into the circular fibres of the duodenum (Fig. 681). The internal layer (fibrte obliqute) is composed of fibres which are arranged-on the fundus and adjacent pai'ts of the stomach, in much the same manner as those of the middle layer are on the body and pyloric portion of the organ (Fig. 680, C). Continuous above with the deeper circular fibres of the lower end of the oesophagus, they begin as U-shaped bundles which loop over the stomach Fig. 680.—The Three Layers of the Muscular Coat of immediately to the left of the cardia, THE St(.mach. a, Outer or longitudinal layer ; B, Middle ^^^^ obliquely downwards or circular layer ; C, Internal or oblique layer, a, Longi- j j. ■ i j. j? -j i i tudinal fibres of oesophagus ; h, Superficial circular fibres ^""^ ^he right tor a considerable of oesophagus passing into circular fibres of stomach in B ; distance on both surfaces of the c, Deep circular fibres of oesophagus passing into oblique organ. These looped fibres, aS we fibres of stomach in C ; d, Oblique fibres forming rings at ^^le left, gradually become the fundus ; e, Submuoosa. f , ,. i n n i. • i less oblique, and nnaiiy form circles which surround the wide end of the stomach conn^letely, even as far as the summit of the fundus. The oblique fibres can be most readily shown by removing the circular fibres on either surface below the cardia. When traced towards the right, they will be found to terminate by turning down and joining the fibres of the circular layer.