874 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. glands, and it will be sufficient to say that, speaking generally, they accompany the blood-vessels of the viscera and of the deep portions of the parietes. THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS AND LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE THORAX. Most of the superficial lymphatic vessels of the thoracic wall are tributaries of the axillary glands, and they have already been descriljed; the rest will be included with the afferents of the deep thoracic glands. Deep Lymphatics of the Thorax.—The glands are arranged in two sets, (1) parietal and (2) visceral. 1. Parietal glands include the following:— The intercostal glands (lymphoglandula^ intercostales) which lie in the posterior parts of the intercostal spaces near the heads of the ribs, or a little farther out, between the intercostal muscles. They receive the lymphatic vessels from the deep parts of the posterior portions of the thoracic walls, including the parietal pleura, and their efferent vessels are divided into ascending and descend- ing trunks. The efferent vessels from the intercostal glands of the upper five or six spaces open either separately, or, after uniting into a common trunk on each side, into the right lymphatic duct on the right side, and into the upper part of the thoracic duct on the left side. The efferent vessels from the intercostal glands of the lower four or five spaces unite to form a common trunk on each side, which descends through the aortic opening of the diaphragm and terminates in the receptaculum chyli. Some of them also communicate with the thoracic duct. The internal mammary or sternal glands (lymphoglandulte sternales), which lie along the side of the internal mammary artery, one or two, as a rule, being placed opposite the anterior end of each intercostal space. Their afferents are derived from the deeper parts of the anterior portion of the thoracic wall, from the deep part of the front of the abdominal wall, by vessels which ascend along the superior epigastric artery, from the inner portion of the mammary gland, and from the anterior part of the diaphragm. The majority of their efferents pass to the anterior mediastinal glands, but some of the efferents from the upper sternal glands ascend to the root of the neck, where they join the efferents of the lower deep cervical glands. The diaphragmatic glands lie upon the upper surface of the diaphragm. They are very irregular both in number and size. Their afferent vessels are received from the diaphragm and the upper surface of the liver, and they give off efferents, some of which pass upwards to the anterior mediastinal glands, and others which descend to the pancreatic glands through the aortic orifice of the diaphragm. 2. Visceral Thoracic Glands.—Of these there are :— The anterior mediastinal glands (lymphoglandulfe mediastinales anteriores) are embedded in the lo'ose tissue of the anterior mediastina,l region. They receive afferents from the middle part of the upper portion of the liver which ascend through the falciform ligament, from the anterior part of the diaphragm, and from the lower sternal glands. Their efferents pass upwards to the superior mediastinum, where some of them enter the superior mediastinal glands, whilst others, continuing upwards, terminate on the right side in the right lymphatic duct, and on the left side in the thoracic duct. The superior mediastinal glands (lymphoglandulfe mediastinales superiores) are grouped round the innominate veins, along the upper part of the aortic arch, and in front of the thoracic portion of the trachea. They receive afferents from the heart, the pericardium, the thymus, and the anterior mediastinal glands. Their efferents terminate at the root of the neck in the right lymphatic, and thoracic ducts. The posterior mediastinal glands (lymphoglandulfe mediastinales posteriores) lie along the aorta and the oesophagus in the posterior mediastinum. They receive afferents from the posterior part of the pericardium, the posterior part of the diaphragm, tlie oesophagus, and from the upper and posterior portion of the liver; the latter vessels accompany the inferior vena cava, and they include the super- ficial lymphatic vessels of the posterior surface of the liver and the deep lymphatic