636 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. receives a slender coinmunication from the oplithalniic division of the fiftli nerve. 3. The short root of the ciliary ganglion passes upwards from the branch of the nerve which supplies the inferior oblique muscle. The Foukth ok Trochlear Nerve. The trochlear nerve (u. trochlearis or patheticus) emerges from the dorsal surface of the mid-ljraiii. It springs at the side of the frenulum from the Olfactory bulb Optic nerve Optic coiiiniKssiire Anterior cereliral artei-y Middle cerebral artery Posterior comnimii- ^ eating artery Oculo-niotor nerve Posterior cere- bral artery Superior cere- — bellar artery Trochlear nerv Abducent nerve *M» i\ TrigemiTjal nervi' Snperiiii petro^a sinus Facial nerve Pars inter-. media Auditory nerve Glosso-pliarvn- y geal nerve Pneumogastiic/ nerve Spinal accessory nerve Infra-trochlear nerve Supra-troclilear nerve Oculo-motor nerve Spbeno-parietal sinus ^Ophthalmic vein Anterior clinoid process Irochlear nerve Oculo-motor nerve Abducent nerve Jircular sinus )phtlial. nerve ■superior .iiaxillary nerve I nCerior maxillary nerve Cavernous sinus l?asilar sinus Gasseiian ganglion Basilar artery Interior petrcsal sinus Vertebral .irtery Hypoglossal nerve Lateral snuis I entorivun cerebelli (cut) Occipital sinuses Lateral Sinu: Vertebral artery Spinal cord Openings of occipital sinuses Straight sinus I orcular Herophili Superior longitudinal sinus Falx cerebri (cut) Fig. 457.—The Base ok the Skulu to .sliow the dura mater, sinuses, arteries, ami nerves. anterior end of the superior medullary velum, just behind the corpora quadri- gemiua (for deep origin, see p. 'IGO). It is extremely slender, and of consider- able length. Passing round the crus cerebri, the nerve appears in the base of the brain behind the optic tract, in the interval between the crus cerebri internally and the temporal lobe of the cerebrum externally. Continued forwards to the base of the skull, it pierces the free border of the tentorium cerebelli, on the outer side of the third nerve, and proceeds forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus lying between the third and ophthalmic nerves. It enters the orbit through the