THE OKGANS OF SENSE. 684 of the anterior pole. The anterior surface of the cornea is almost, but not quite, circular, measuring 11 mm. vertically and 11-9 mm. transversely, while its pos- terior surface is circular and has a diameter of 13 mm. Its periphery is overlapped by the tissue of the sclera as the glass of a watch is overlapped by the metal rim, with, however, this essential dif- [epitlieliui ference, that the tissue of the cornea is directly continuous with that of the sclera. The cornea consists, from be- fore backwards, of the following- strata, viz. (Fig. 494):— Aiitorinr elastic lamina Posterior elastic lamina Endothelium Fig. 494.—VERTicAr. Section (if C'ohnra (magnified). 1. A layer of stratified epithelium. 2. An anterior elastic lamina. 3. The substantia propria. 4. A posterior elastic lamina. 5. A layer of endothelium. 1. The layer of stratified epi- thelium (epithelium cornete) is continuous with that which covers the free surface of the conjunctiva and consists of six or eight strata of nucleated cells. Deepest of all is a single layer of perpendicularly-arranged columnar cells, the flattened and often-expanded bases of which rest on the anterior elastic lamina, while their opposite ends are rounded and contain the nuclei. Superficial to this layer are three or four strata of nucleated, polygonal cells, the majority of which exhibit finger-like processes which join with the corre- sponding processes of neighbouring cells. The more superficial layers assume the form of nucleated squames. The entire thickness of this stratified epithelium is about 45 /X at the centre and about 80 /x at the periphery of the cornea. 2. The anterior elastic lamina (lamina elastica anterior, Bowmani) is from 19-20 /A thick, and may be regarded merely as a differentiation of the outer part of the substantia propria from which it is with difficulty separated. It is not stained yellow by picrocarmine, thus differing from true elastic tissue, and its degree of development varies in different animals. 3. The substantia propria presents, in a fresh condition, a homogeneous appear- ance ; but, with the assistance of reagents, it is seen to consist of modified con- nective tissue, with some few elastic fibres. An amorphous interstitial substance binds the fibres into ljundles, and, in turn, cements the bundles into lamellae, which are directly continuous with the fibrous tissue of the sclera. The fibres of any one lamella cross those of adjacent lamellie almost at right angles, while the superimposed lamellae are joined by sutural fibres and by amorphous substance. Between the lamellaj are found the cell spaces or lacunae of the cornea—irregu- larly stellate in shape, and communicating freely with each other by means of fine canaliculi. The corneal cells or corpuscles are contained in these lacunae, without,, however, completely filling them, the remainder of the cavities being occupied by lymph. These cells are nucleated, flattened, and star-like, and their branched pro- cesses join those of neighbouring cells in the canaliculi. Migratory or lymph cells are also found in the ceU spaces. In iikl age a grayish opaque ring, 1,V to 2 mm. in breadth, is frequently seen near the peri- phery of the cornea ; it is termed the arcus senilis, and results from a deposit of fat granules in the lamellae and corneal corpuscles. 4. The posterior elastic lamina (lamina elastica posterior, Demoursi, Descemeti) is a clear, structureless membrane, covering the posterior aspect of the substantia