THE ANKLE-JOINT. 297 into three fasciculi, which are distinguished from each other by names descriptive of their chief points of attachment. The anterior fasciculus (lig. talo-fibulare anterius) is the shortest. It extends from the anterior border of the external malleolus to the astragalus immediately in front of its external articular surface. The middle fasciculus (lig. calcaneo-fibulare) is a strong and rounded cord. It is attached by one end to the front of the tip of the external malleolus, and by the other to the outer^side of the os calcis, immediately above the groove for the peroneal tendons. \ The posterior fasciculus (lig. talo-fibulare posterius) is the strongest. It runs transversely between the lower part of the fibular fossa on the inner aspect of the malleolus and the posterior surface of the astragalus, where it is attached to the external tubercle and the adjoining rough surface. Sometimes this tubercle is detached from the astragalus, and represents a separate bone—the os trigonum. The internal lateral ligament (lig. deltoideum, Figs. 227 and 228) has the general shape of a delta, and is even stronger than the external ligament. It is attached above to a marked impression on the lower part of the internal malleolus, and below, in a continuous layer, to the scaphoid, astragalus, and os calcis. In it we may recog- nise the following special bands—(a) the lig. talo-tihiale anterius, which extends from the front of the inner malleolus to the neck of the astragalus; (i) the lig. talo-tihiale posterius, stretching between the back of the inner malleolus and the postero-internal rough surface of the astragalus ; (c) the lig. tibio-naviculare, which extends from the tip of tRe inner malleolus to the inner side of the scaphoid; (d) the lig. calcaneo-tibiale, which extends between the tip of the inner malleolus and the inner side of the sustentaculum tali; (e) the lig. talo-tihiale profundum, which consists of deeper fibres extending from the tip of the internal malleolus to the inner side of the astragalus. Synovial membrane lines the capsular ligament, and, as already described, the joint-cavity communicates directly with the inferior tibio-fibular joint. Both at the front and back of the ankle-joint, as well as superiorly in the angle formed by the three bones, the synovial membrane covers pads of fat. Movements at the Ankle-Joint.—In the erect attitude the foot is placed at right angles to the leg; in other words, the normal position of the ankle-joint is flexion. Those movements which tend to diminish the angle so formed by the dorsum of the foot and the front of the leg, are called dorsiflexion, while those which tend to increase the angle, i.e. to straighten the foot upon the leg, are called extension. As a matter of fact neither dorsiflexion nor extension are ever completely carried out, and the range of movement of which the foot is capable is limited to about 90°. These movements occur about an obliquely transverse axis, as is indicated by the natural outward pointing of the toes. The weight of the body falls slightly anterior to the ankle- joint, so that a certain amount of muscular action is necessitated in order to maintain the foot at right angles to the leg; but additional stability is obtained from the obliquity above mentioned. When the foot is raised from the ground, muscular action tends naturally to produce a certain amount of extension. AVhen the foot is extended, as in standing on the toes, the hinder narrow part of the astragalus moves forwards into the wider part of the interval between the tibia and Internal lateral ( ligament of ankle Inferior calcaneo- " ^ scajjhoid ligament ^ ^ Fig. 228.—Ligaments on Inner Aspect op Ankle and Foot.