THE BKACHIAL PLEXUS. 581 Composition of the Brachial Plexus.—In an analysis of the brachial plexus four stages may be always seen:— (1) The undivided nerves. (2) The separation of the nerves into ventral (anterior) and dorsal (posterior) trunks; and the formation of three primary cords. (3) The formation of three secondary cords—outer, inner, and posterior. (4) The origin of the nerves of distribution. Fig. 429.—The Nerves op the Brachial Plexus. S}', Sympathetic gangliated cord ; Phr, Phrenic uerve ; C.4, 5, 6, 7, 8, T.l, 2, 3, Anterior primary divisions of the lower cervical and upper thoracic nerves ; M^, M'-^, Muscular branches to axial muscles ; P.T, Posterior thoracic nerve ; Rh, Nerve to rhomboids (posterior scapular) ; Subcl, Nerve to subclavius muscle ; Int, Intercostal nerves ; S.Sc, Suprascapular nerve. The intercostal part of the first thoracic nerve is omitted. Outer Cord.—E.A.T, External anterior thoracic nerve ; M.C, Musculo-outaneous nerve ; Cb, Nerve to coraco- brachialis ; M, Median nerve. Inner Cord.—l.A.T, Internal anterior thoracic nerve ; U, Ulnar nerve ; I.C, Internal cutaneous nerve ; L.I.C, Lesser internal cutaneous nerve. Posterior Cord.—Circ, Circun)flex nerve ; M.S, Musculo-spiral nerve ; S.Sub, Short subscapular nerve ; M.Sub, Lower subscapular uerve ; L.Sub, Long subscapular nerve ; I.H, Intercosto-humeral nerve ; Lat, Lateral branch of third intercostal nerve. (1) The undivided nerves have only a very short independent course at the side of the neck, after passing between the scalene muscles. (2) Almost immediately after entering the posterior triangle there are formed three primary cords: the first cord is formed by the union of the fifth and sixth nerves together; the second, by the seventh nerve alone; and the third, by the union of the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves together. While these cords are being formed, a division occurs in each of the last four cervical nerves, into ventral (anterior) and dorsal (posterior) trunks; the first thoracic nerve usually gives rise to no dorsal trunk. The ventral and dorsal trunks of the fifth, sixth, and seventh nerves are nearly equal in size. The dorsal trunk of the eighth cervical nerve is much smaller. (3) The secondary cords of the plexus are formed by combinations of these ventral and dorsal trunks in relation to the axillary artery. They are three in number. The outer cord (fasciculus lateralis) is formed by a combination of the ventral trimks of the fifth, sixth, and seventh nerves, and lies on the outer side of the axillary artery. The inner cord (fasciculus medialis) is formed by a combina- tion of the ventral trunk of the eighth cervical with the whole of the first thoracic nerve engaged in the formation of the plexus; it lies on the inner side of the axillary artery. The posterior cord (fasciculus posterior) is made up of all the