1036 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. back a second time towards llie iiiiddle ot the saciuiii, where it joiiiK the rectum at the usual level, thus uiaking an S-shaped curve within the pelvis. On the other hand, when the loop is short (a not infrequent occurrence), all its curves are abridged, and it fails to Jiass over to the right side, but runs more or less directly backwards after entering the pelvi.s. From what has been said, it will l)e seen that the loop of the pelvic colon is subject to numerous and considerable variations, which are chiefly dej^endent upon its length and that of its mesentery, and also ujton the state of emptiness or distension of itself and of tlie other pelvic viscera. When the intestine is long the loo]) is more complex ; when short, more simjjle. When the bladder and rectum are distended, or when tlie pelvic colon itself is much distended, it is unable to find accommodation in the true pelvis, and consequently it passes uj) into the abdominal cavity, almost any part of the lower half of which it may occupy. But, as already stated, in the great majority of cases (92 per cent, according to Jonnesco) it is ibund after death lying entirely witliin tlie jjelvic ca\'ity. In Iciifjfh, tlie pelvic colon generally measures about IG or 17 inclies (40 to 42'5 cm.), l)ut it may be as sliort as 5 inches (1 2 cm.), or as long as 35 inches (84 cm.). Tlie pelvic mesocolon, wliicli corres])onds to both tlie sigmoid mesocolon and the meso- rectum, is a fau-sliaped fold, sliort at each extremity, and long in its middle jiortion (Figs. 699 and 700). Its root is attached along an inverted V-shaped line, one limb of whicli runs up close to the inner Iwrder of the left psoas, as high as the biturcation of the common iliac artery (or often higher); here it l)ends at an acute angle, and tlu' second limb descends over the sacral promontory and along the front of the sacrum to the middle of its third piece, where the mesentery ceases, and the pelvic colon passes into the rectum. When the jielvic colon ascends into the abdominal cavity, this mesentery is douliled uji on itself, the side, wliich was naturally posterior, becoming anteiior. Intersigmoid Fossa (recessus intersigmoideus).—When the ])elvic colon with its mesentery is raised upwards, a small orifice will usually be found beneath the mesentery, corre.spond- iug to the apex of the V-shaped attachment of its root to the ])ostei-ior abdominal walk This orifice leads into a fossa which is directed upwards, and \\-ill often admit the last joint of the little finger. It is known as the inter»iij'm(nd fossa, and is due to the imperfect lilending of the mesentery of the descending colon of the foetus with the parietal peritoneum. In the foetus this mesentery is well developed, and extends from the region of the vertebral column out towards the descending colon. After a time it begins to unite with the underlying parietal peritoneinn ; but in the region of the intersigmoid fossa the union is rarely jierfect, hence the jiresence of the fossa. In the child at birth only the terminal part of the pelvic coh)n lies in the pelvis. This is chiefly owing to the suuill size of the pelvic cavity in the infant. Beginning at the end of the iliac colon, the pelvic colon generally arches uj^wards and to the right across the alidomen towards the right iliac fossa, where it forms one or two coils, and then passes down over the right side of the pelvic brim into the jielvic cavity. In cases of imjjerforate anus, it is important to I'emendjer, in connexion with the operation for forming an artificial anus, that, whilst the iliac colon is found in the left iliac region, the pelvic colon (" sigmoid flexure ") usually lies on the right side, and passes over the right portion of the brim to enter the pelvis. Structure of the Pelvic Colon.—Only the arraugement of the muscular coat need be referred to. As the tajniiTe of the descending colon are followed down, it will be found that the postero- external band gradually j^asses on to the front, and unites with the anterior ttenia to form a Ijroad band, whicli occupies nearly the whole width of this bowel in its lower portion. The postero- internal t;enia spreads out in a similar manner on the back ; so that in the lower half of the pelvic colon the longitudinal layer of the muscular coat is complete, with the exception of a narrow ^lart on each side ; here the circular fibres come to the surface, and the intestine jjresents a series of small sacculations. These, however, disapj^ear, and the longitudinal fibres, although thicker in front and Ijeliind, form a continuous layer all round, as the rectum jiroper is ap])roaclied. THE RECTUM. The rectum proper (intestinum rectum: second portion of the rectum of the usual descriptions) is the comparatively dilated portion of the large bowel which intervenes between the pelvic colon above and the anal canal—the slit-like passage througli which it connnunicates with the exterior (Fig. 701). It forms a temporary reservoir, in which tlie fasces accumulate a short time before they are discharged from the l)ody, but as a result of hal)it this temporary function may be converted into a m(»re or less permanent one. Unlike tlie portion of the bowel which immediately precedes it, the rectum has but a partial covering of peritoneum, and is entirely destitute of a mesentery; sacculations, too, which are so characteristic of the large intestine, cannot properly be said to be present.