G42 THE NERV(3US SYSTEM. of the /ygomatie arch, and is concealtHl ))y tlie ramus of the lower jaw, and hy the temporal, masseter, and external pterygoid muscles. The branches of tlie inferior maxillary nerve may he divided into two seiies— (1) those derived from the undivided nerve, and (2) those derived from the terminal divisions of the nerve. The l)ranches of the undivided nerve are two in number. (a) A small recurrent branch (n. spinosus) arises just outside the skull, and accompanying the middle meningeal artery through the foramen spinosum, supplies the dura mater, (b) In the pterygoid region a small Ijranch arises for the supply of tiie internal pterygoid muscle. This nerve forms a con- nexion with the otic ganglion. The terminal divisions of the nerve are a small anterior and a large pos- terior trunk. The small anterior trunk passes downwards and forwards beneath the external pterygoid muscle,, and separates into the fol- lowing branches :—(1) A branch for the external pterygoid muscle (n. ptery- goideus externus), which supplies it on its deep sur- face; (2) a l)ranch to the masseter muscle (n. mas- setericus), which passes over the upper border of the external pterygoid and Fig. 462.—Scheme ok this Dlstributiox (if the I.nfekiok • Maxillary Neuvk. V.I.M, Inferior maxillary nerve ; S, Afferent, and Mo, Efferent roots ; M, Meningeal branch ; O.U-, Otic ganglion ; I.Pt, Nerve to internal ptery- goid ; S.S.P, Small superficial petrosal nerve ; T.T, Nerves to tensor tympani, and T.P, Tensor palati ; Ty.Plex, Tympanic plexus ; LC, Internal cai'olid artery ; S.D.P, Small deep petrosal iierve ; Gr.G, Geniculate ganglion ; F, Facial nerve ; Ty. Tympanic branch ; G.Ph, Glossopharyngeal nerve ; M.M, Middle meningeal artery ; A.T, Auriculo-temporal nerve ; ,F, Communication with facial nerve ; Par, Nerve to parotid gland ; Me, Branch to meatus of ear ; Pi, Branch to pinna ; T, Temporal branch ; A, Anterior division of inferior maxillary nerve ; E.Pt, Nerves to external pterygoid : M, Masseter ; T.T.T, Temporal, and Bucc, Buccinator muscles ; Po, Posterior division of inferior maxillary nerve ; L, Lingual nerve ; C.T, Chorda tynipani nerve ; Sub.G, Sub-maxillary ganglion ; Hy, Hypoglossal nerve ; I.D, Inferior dental nerve ; My.hy, Mylohyoid nerve ; My, Nerve to mylohyoid ; Di, Nerve to digastric (anterior belly) ; Ment, Mental branch ; Sty.Gl, Stylo-glossus ; H.Gl, Hyo-glossus ; G.H.G, Genio-hyoglossus muscles. ternal pterygoid to reach the l)uccinator muscle. This nerve is sensory, and its fibres are in part distributed to the skin of the cheek (communicating with buccal branches of the facial nerve); they are also in part distrilnited to the mucous membrane of the inside of the mouth, to reach which they pierce the fibres of the buccinator muscle. The buccal nerve usually sup]ilies a third l)ranch to the temporal muscle, after emerging l)etween the two beads of the external pterygoid muscle (Fig. 458, p. 637). The large posterior trunk extends downwards a short way beneath the external pterygoid muscle. After giving off by two roots the auriculo-temporal nerve, it ends by dividing into two, the lingual and the inferior dental nerves. The auriculo-temporal nerve (n. auriculo-temporalis) is formed l)y the union throuoh the sigmoid notch' of the lower jaw; (3) and (4) two branches to the temporal muscle (nn. tem- porales profundi, anterior et posterior), which also ascend al)ove the external pterygoid muscle; and (5) the buccal nerve (n. bucci- natorius), which passes ol)- liquely forwards between the two heads of the ex-