OSTEOLOGY. 1:38 turbinalis), with wliich the hinder end of the superior border of the inferior turbinated bone articulates; above and below this it enters into the formation of the outer wall of the middle and inferior meatuses of the nose respectively. Near the upper extremity of the vertical plate, and below the processes which spring from it, there is another ridge more or less parallel to that already described. This is the superior turbinated or ethmoidal crest (crista ethmoidalis), and with this the hinder extremity of the middle turbinated bone is united. The external surface, which forms the inner wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa, is channelled by a vertical groove (sulcus pterygo-palatinus), converted into a canal by articulation with the superior maxillary bone. This canal, called the posterior palatine canal, transmits the large palatine nerve and descending palatine vessels. Anteriorly the external surface projects forwards to a variable extent, and helps to close in the antrum of the maxilla by its maxillary process. The anterior border is a thin edge of irregular outline which articulates above with the ethmoid and below with the superior maxilla. The posterior border, thin above, where it articulates with the fore part of the internal pterygoid plate, expands below into a pyramidal process called the tuberosity. The inferior border of the vertical plate is confluent with the outer edge of the horizontal plate; posteriorly, and immediately in front of the tuberosity, it is notched by the lower extremity of the posterior palatine canal. The superior border supports the orbital and sphenoidal processes; the former—the anterior—is separated from the latter by a notch (incisura spheno- palatina), which is converted into the spheno-palatine foramen by the articulation of » the palate bone with the under surface of the sphenoid. Through this communica- tion between the spheno-maxillary and nasal fossae pass the spheno-palatine artery and the nasal branches of the spheno-palatine ganglion. The tuberosity (processus pyramidalis) is directed backwards and outwards from the angle formed by the vertical and horizontal plates, and presents on its posterior surface a central smooth vertical groove, bounded on either side by rough articular furrows which unite above in a V-shaped manner with the upper thin posterior edge. These articulate with the fore parts of the lower portions of the internal and external pterygoid plates, the central groove which fits into the wedge- like interval between the two pterygoid plates thus entering into the formation of the pterygoid fossa. The outer surface of the tuberosity is rough above, where it is confluent with the outer surface of the vertical plate which articulates with the tuberosity of the superior maxilla; below, there is a small smooth triangular area which appears between the tuberosity of the superior maxilla and the outer sui'face of the external pterygoid plate, and so enters into the floor of the zygomatic fossa. Passing through the tuberosity in a vertical direction are the posterior and external accessory palatine canals (foramina palatina minora) for the transmission of the smaller palatine nerves and vessels. The "brbital process (processus orbitalis), shaped like a hollow cube, surmounts the fore part of the vertical plate. The open mouth of the cube is directed back- wards and inwards towards the fore part of the body of the sphenoid, with the cavity of which it usually commimicates; the fore part of the cube articulates with the inner end of the angle formed by the orbital plate and zygomatic surf^ice of the superior maxilla. Of the remaining four surfaces, one directed forwards and inwards articulates with the ethmoid. The others are non-articular: the superior enters into the formation of the floor of the orbit; the external is directed towards the spheno-maxillary fossa ; whilst the inferior, which is confluent with the inner surface of the vertical plate, is of variable extent, and overhangs the superior meatus of the nose. The sphenoidal process (processus sphenoidalis), much smaller than the orbital, curves upwards, inwards, and backwards from the hinder part of the summit of the vertical plate. Its superior surface, which is grooved, articulates with the fore part of the under surface of the body of the sphenoid and the root of the internal pterygoid plate, thereby converting the groove into the pterygo-palatine canal, which transmits an artery of the same name together with a pharyngeal branch from the spheno-palatine ganglion. Its outer side enters into the formation of part of the inner wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa. Its internal curved aspect is directed