BEANCHES OF THE EXTEENAL CAEOTID AETEEY. 759 (62 mm.). It extends from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage to the back of the neck of the mandible, where it terminates by dividing into the superficial temporal and the internal maxillary arteries. Course.—It commences in the carotid triangle, passes upwards beneath the posterior belly of - the digastric and the stylo-hyoid muscles to enter the posterior part of the submaxillary triangle, where it disappears beneath the lower part of the parotid gland, and it terminates under cover, or in the substance of the upper part of the gland. At its commencement it lies somewhat in front of and to the inner side of the internal carotid artery, but, inclining slightly backwards as it ascends, it becomes superficial to the latter vessel, and its course is indicated by a line drawn from the lobule of the ear to the posterior extremity of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. Relations.—Posterior-.—In the lower part of its extent it is in close relation with the internal carotid, and in the upper part of its course with the cartilaginous portion of the external auditory meatus. Lateral.—At its commencement the fibres of the inferior constrictor muscle are in con- tact with its inner side, but at a higher level the structures which intervene between it and the internal carotid—viz. the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the tip of the styloid process, the stylo-glossus muscle, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the pharyngeal branch of the vagus—separate it from the wall of the pharynx; whilst internal both to it and to the internal carotid artery are the external and internal laryngeal branches of the superior laryngeal nerve. Superficial.—In the carotid triangle the lingual, ranine, common facial, and superior thyroid veins are superficial to it, and the hypoglossal nerve ci'osses the artery immediately below the origin of its occipital branch. On the boundary line between the carotid and the submaxillaiy triangles the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid muscles cover the arterj', and from the tip of the mastoid process downwards it is overlapped by the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Above the posterior belly of the digastric the parotid gland is superficial to the artery, while still more superficially are the superficial fascia and the skin. In the substance of the parotid gland the temporo- maxillary vein descends on the outer side of the artery, and the facial nerve crosses on the outer side of the vein at a right angle to it. Branches.—Eight branches arise from the external carotid artery; of these three spring from its anterior aspect, viz. the superior thyroid, the lingual, and the facial, all of which arise in the carotid triangle; two from its posterior aspect, viz. the occipital and the posterior auricular, the former commencing below the posterior belly of the digastric and the latter above it; one from its inner side, viz. the ascending pharyngeal, which rises in the carotid triangle; and two from its termination, viz. the superficial temporal and the internal maxillary. I Branches of the External Carotid Artery. (1) Superior Thyroid Artery (a. thyroidea superior. Figs. 554 and 556).—This vessel springs from the front of the lower part of the external carotid artery, just below the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and terminates at the upper ex- tremity of the lateral lobe of the thyroid body by dividing into its terminal branches. Course.—From its commencement in the carotid triangle the artery runs at first forwards and a little upwards, it then turns downwards to its termination. Relations.—Internally it is in relation with the inferior constrictor muscle and the external laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve. Superficially it is covered at its origin by the anterior border of the stei'no-mastoid ; afterwards, for a short distance, by fascia, platysma, and skin, and in the lower part of its extent by the omo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid, and the sterno-thyroid muscles, and it is over- lapped by an accompanying vein. Branches.—(1) In the carotid triangle (a) an infra-hyoid branch (ramus hyoideus) runs along the lower border of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, under cover of the thyro-hyoid muscle, to anastomose with its fellow of the opposite side and with the supra- hyoid branch of the lingual artery. It supplies the thyro-hyoid muscle and membrane. (6) A laryngeal branch (a. laryngea superior) runs forwards beneath the thyro-hyoid muscle. It pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane in company with the internal laryngeal nerve, supplies the muscles, ligaments, and mucous membrane of the larynx, and