1115 THE PENIS. Each corpus cavernosuni ends in a blunt conical extremity, the apex of which is received into a hollow in "the Imse of the glans. The skin covering the body of the penis is thin, delicate, and freely movable, and, except near the root of the organ, is free from hairs. On the urethral aspect of the penis the skin is marked by a median raphe, continuous with the raphe of the scrotum. Eeaching the base of the glans, the skin forms a free fold called the prepuce (prseputium), which overlaps the glans to a variable extent. From the deep surface of the prepuce the skin is reflected on to the terminal part of the penis, just above the level of the corona glandis, and is continued over the entire glans to the meatus urinarius. A small fold, the frenulum prseputii, passes to the deep surface of the prepuce from a point just below the meatus urinarius. The skin covering the glans is hrmly attached to the underlying erectile tissue, and here, as well as on the deep surface of the prepuce, it presents some resemblance to mucous membrane. Minute sebaceous glands (glandulte prseputiales) are found on the glaus and inner surface of the prepuce; the secretion from these helps to form the smegma prseputii, which tends to collect in the groove between the glans and the prepuce. At the root of the penis (radix penis) the three component parts of the organ separate from one another (Fig. 761). The corpora cavernosa, diverging from each other laterally, at first become somewhat swollen, and then gradually tapering off, gain a fibrous attachment to the inner part of the pubic arch. These diverging parts of the corpora cavernosa are called the crura penis, and each is covered by the corresponding ischio-cavernosus muscle. The corpus spongiosum lying between the crura becomes enlarged, and forms a somewhat spherical mass which receives the name bulb of the urethra (bulbus urethrse). The bulb varies much in size in different individuals, and is attached to the under surface of the triangular ligament, against which it rests. The posterior part and under surface of the bulb usually show a median notch or groove, which is an indication that the ljulb is originally composed of two symmetrical portions, fused in the middle line. These two portions are termed the hemispheria bulbi urethrse, and are best seen in subjects whose tissues have been hardened by intra-vascular injections. Covering the superficial surface of the bulb is the bulbo-cavernosus muscle. The canal of the urethra, piercing the triangular ligament, enters the bulb a short distance in front of its posterior extremity (Fig. 765). A somewhat triangular band of strong fibrous tissue, called the suspensory ligament of the penis, is attached to the front of the symphysis pubis, and extends to the fibrous cap- sule of the penis, with which it becomes con- tinuous (Fig. 759). Structure of the Penis.—Each corpus caver- nosum penis is encloaed by a dense fibrous coat or tunica albuginea (tunica albuginea corporum cavernosorum), which, fusing with the corre- sponding coat of tlie opposite side, forms a mesial septum (septum penis). The septum is very incomplete, especially near the tei-minal part of the penis, where it is interrupted by a number of nearly parallel slit-like perforations, hence the term septum pectiniforme is often applied to it. Through these openings the erectile tissue of the corpora cavernosa of opjjosite sides is continuous. The fibrous coat contains many elastic fibres, and may be divided into an outer layer of longitudinally directed fibres and an inner layer of circular fibres, some of which latter are continued into the septum. Numerous fibrous strands, called trabeculae (trabeculae corporum cavernosorum), proceed from tlie deep surface of the tunica albuginea, and stretching across tlie interior of the corpus cavernosum, form a fine sponge-like framework Fig. 762.—A Longitudinal Section of the Terminal Poktion of THE Penis, and a Tkansverse Section thuouuh the Body of the Organ. d. Glans peuis. </. Dorsal veiu. e. Fossa uavieularis. h. Dorsal artery. f. Part of septum pectiniforme. i. Dorsal uerve. a. Corpus caveruosum. h. Corpus spongiosum. c. Urethral canal.