1050 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. walls of the pelvis, constitutes the so-called false ligaments of that organ. From the apex of the bladder it is carried on to the anterior alxlominal wall by the urachus, thus forming the superior or anterior false ligament of the bladder (plica pubo- vesicalis). In the female (Fig. 707), the peritoneum, on leaving the rectum, passes to the posterior wall of the vagina, the upper portion of which it covers. From this it is continued up over the posterior surface and fundus of the uterus, and down on its anterior surface as far as the junction of the cervix and body (Fig. 775). Here it passes from the uterus to the bladder, which it partly covers, as in the male, and is then carried on to the anterior abdominal wall. Between the rectum behind, and the uterus and vagina in front, is situated the pouch of Douglas (excavatio rectouterina Douglasi, recto-genital pouch), the entrance of which is limited on each side by a fold passing from the cervix of the uterus around the sides of the Second sacral verteb7:i Ending of pelvic mesocolon Pyraniidalis Urachus Fig. 708.—The Peritoneum of the Pelvic Cavity. The pelvis was sawn across obliquely (as in Fig. 702) in a thin male subject aged 60. Owing to the absence of fat the various pelvic organs were visible through the peritoneum, though not quite so distinctly as represented here. The bladder and rectum were Ijoth empty and contracted ; the paravesical and para- rectal fossje as a result were very well marked. pouch towards the rectum; these are the folds of Douglas (plicae rectouterinse Douglasi, recto-genital folds), and they contain in their interior the utero-sacral ligaments (musculi recto-uterini), two bands of iibrous tissue Avith plain muscle fibres intermixed, which pass from the cervix of the uterus, liackwards on each side of the rectum, to blend with the connective tissue on the front of the lower part of the sacrum. Similarly, in front of the uterus, l)etween it and the bladder, is found the much smaller utero-vesical pouch (excavatio vesico-uterina). Finally, the peritoneum is prolonged as a wide fold from each margin of the uterus to the side wall of the pelvis, constituting the broad ligament of the uterus (ligamentum latum uteri), within which ai-e contained the FaUopian tube, the ovary, the round ligament, and other structures (see p. 1130). When the bladder i.s empty, there is seen at each side, between it and the pelvic wall, a considerable peritoneal depression—the paravesical fossa (Fig. 708). This fossa is traversed by a peritoneal fold—the plica vesicalis transversa—wliich is found running transversely outwards