THE FEMUR 221 Plantaris— Gastrocneiiiius- Surface for the attachment of. ext. lateral li Fig. 163. I'oplitf'iis Lower End of Right Femur (Outer Side). luinent point to the fibres of the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The external tuberosity (epicondylus lateralis), less pronounced and lying more in line with the outer surface of the shaft, is channelled behind by a curved groove—the lower rounded lip of which serves to separate it from the inferior articular surface. This groove ends in front in a pit which is placed just below the most salient point of the tuberosity ; hereto is attached the tendon of the popliteus muscle, which overlies the lower lip of the groove in the extended position of the joint, but slips into and occupies the groove when the joint is Hexed. Behind the most prominent part of the external tuberosity, and just above the pit for the attachment of the popliteus, the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint is attached, whilst superior to that tliere is a circumscribed area for the origin of the tendinous part of the outer head of the gastrocnemius muscle. The articular surface on the lower ex- tremity is divisible into three parts— that which corresponds to the inferior surface of the shaft and which is formed by the coalescence of the two condyles in front, and those which overlie the under and hinder aspects of each of those processes. The former is separated from the latter by two shallow oblique grooves which traverse the articular surface from before backwards, on either side, in the direction of the anterior part of the intercondylic notch. These furrows are the impressions in which fit the fore-parts of the internal and external semilunar cartilages of the knee-joint respectively when the knee-joint is extended. The anterior articular area or trochlea (facies patellaris) is adapted for articulation with the patella. Convex from above downwards, it displays a broad and shallow central groove, bounded on either side by two slightly convex surfaces. Of the two sides, the external is the wider and more prominent and rises on the front of the bone to a higher level than the internal. The condyloid or tibial surfaces are convex from side to side, and convex from before backwards. Sweeping round the under siirface and posterior extremities of the condyles, they describe a spiral curve more open in front than behind. The inner condyloid arti- cular surface is narrower than the outer, and when viewed from below is also seen to describe a curve around a vertical axis. The articular surface of the external condyle is inclined obliquely from backwards and outwards. The of the condyles above the articular area surface of the shaft; from The bone from which the Patellar surface Impression of external semi- lunar cartilage External tuberosity Popliteal groove' Externa i._^ tibial surface Impression of internal semi- lunar cartilage Semilunar patellar facet Internal tibial surface Int. condy'Le Surface of attachment of posterior crucial ligament Fig. 164.—Lower End of Right Fj?mur as seen from Below. Ext. condyle Intercondvlic notch before slightly surfaces posteriorly are confluent superiorly with the popUteal these areas the heads of the gastrocnemius muscles arise, inner head of the muscle springs is often elevated in the form of a tubercle placed on the lower part of the popliteal surface of the shaft, just above the internal condyle. The proportionate length of the femur to the body height is as 1 is to 3-53-3-92. Arterial Foramina.—Numerous vascular canals are seen in the region of the neck, at the bottom of the digital fossa, on the posterior intercondylic ridge and on the external surface of