THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 736 narrow and pointed in the arteries, whilst in the veins they are somewhat shorter and broader. The most essential structural difference between capillaries and the arteries and veins which they \mite together, is to be found in the presence, in lioth of the latter, of involuntary muscular filires inter- posed between the endothelial lining and the outer connective tissue sheath. In small vessels, e.g. capil- lary arterioles, the muscle cells are few in number and more or less scattered. In larger vessels the walls become stronger and thicker, muscular fibres increase and form a continuous layer, whilst yellow elastic and ordinary white connec- varying proportions. The walls of the vessels thus )e distinguished ; these, however. 'J\ externa T. media T. intima Fig. 542.—Structure op Blood VESSEL^s (Diagrammatic.) Ai, Capillary—with simple endothelial walls. A'-, Larger capillary —with connective tissue sheath, "adventitia capillaris. ' B, Capillary arteriole—showing muscle cells of middle coat, few and scattered. C, Artery—muscular elements of the tunica media forming a continuous layer. tive tissue are added in become more complex, and numerous strata may are for ccnivenience regarded as forming three layers, which are known as the inner, middle, and outer coats, superadded to which is the investing common sheath. Structure of Arteries.—The walls of arteries are stronger and thicker than those of veins of corresponding size, the inner and middle coats being respectively par- ticularly rich in elastic and muscular elements. Inner coat (tunica intima).—The simple endothelial layer of tlie arterioles is strengthened I)y the addition of yellow elastic tissue, which usually forms a fene- strated memljrane, but sometimes consists of longi- tudinal fibrils. In arteries of medium size the elastic lamina is separated from the endothelium a laver of connective tissue consisting of bi'anchetl cells and numerous hbrils. In the larger arteries the sub-endothelial connective tissue is considerably increased, and delicate elastic fibres.appear which connect it with the more externally situated fene- strated elastic layer. The middle coat (tunica media) in the capil- lary arterioles consists solely of scattered unstriped muscle fibres; the individual fil^res are circularl} disposed, but do not entirely surround the vessel. In small arteries the muscle cells are so far increased in amount that they form a continuous though thin layer. As the arteries increase in size additional layers of muscle cells are added, and the greater thickness of the arterial wall is maiidy due to this increase of the muscular elements of the middle coat. In the larger vessels delicate laminae of elastic tissue alternate with the layers of muscular fibres, and in the aorta and the carotid arteries, as well as in some of the branches of the latter, the elastic elements largely preponderate. In the first part of the aorta, in the puhnonary artery, and in the arteries of the retina, the muscular fibres are entirely replaced by elastic tissue. The external coat (tunica externa) of an artery consists almost entirely of fibrillated connective tissue corpuscles lying in corresponding spaces. In all elastic filjres are als(j present Fig. 543.—Transverse Section THROUGH THE WALL OF A LaRGE Artery. A, Tunica intima. B, Tunica media. C, Tunica externa. with connective tissue lut the smallest arteries numerous The elastic element is specially strong near the middle coat in small and medium-sized vessels, and is sometimes described as the external elastic membrane of Henle. In some arteries longitudinally arranged unstriped muscular fibres are also found in the external coat. The sheath of an artery (vagina vasis).—In addition to the three coats above described, arteries are enclosed in a sheath of the surrounding connective