OSTEOLOGY. lOG occipital foramen or foramen magnum. The expanded curved plate behind the foramen is the tabular or squamous part. The thick rod-like portion in front of the foramen is the basilar process. ()n either side the foramen is bounded by the lateral or condylic portions. The tabular or squamous part (squama occipitalis) in shape somewhat resembles a Gothic arch, and is curved from side to side and from above downwards. It forms inferiorly a small portion of the middle of tlie posterior boundary of the foramen magnum, and unites on either side of that with the lateral parts of the bone. About the centre of the external surface of the squama there is a prominence—the external occipital protuberance (protuberantia occipitalis externa), which varies consideralily in its distinctness and projection, and serves for the attachment of the ligameutum nuch;Te. From the protuberance on either side two lines curve out towards the external angles of the bone. These are known respectively as the highest and Superior constrictor Fig. 82.—Occipital Bone .\s seen from Below. superior curved lines (linea nucha} suprema and linea nuclue superior). To the upper of these the epicranial aponeurosis is attached, whilst the lower serves for the origin of the trapezius and occipitalis muscles and the insertion of the sterno- mastoid and splenius capitis muscles. The two lines together serve to divide the external surface of the tabular part into an upper or occipital portion (planum occipitale), covered by the hairy scalp and a lower or nuchal part (planum nuchale) serving for the attachment of the Heshy muscles of the back of the neck. As a rule the occipital part bulges backwards beyond the external occipital protuberance; exceptionally, however, the latter process is the most outstanding part of the bone. The nuchal plane, irregular and rough, is divided into two lateral halves by a median ridge—the external occipital crest (linea nuclue mediana), which stretches from the external occipital protuberance above to the posterior border of the foramen magnum Ijclow. Crossing the nuchal plane transversely, about its middle, is the inferior curved line (linea nuchte inferior), which passes outwards and forwards on eitlier side towards the lateral mai-gins of the bone. The areas thus marked out