455 IN TEEN AL STEUCTUEE OF THE MEDULLA. tract, and which receives the name of the anterior basis-bundle. While the decus- sation is going on the anterior basis-bundle is thrust aside, and, sinking from the surface, it takes up its position as a flattened band-like strand on the outer side of the gradually increasing pyramid (Fig. 337). When the decussation is completed this strand is seen to lie close to the median plane on the dorsal aspect of the pyramid, where it is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the median raphe alone (Fig. 338). In the upper part of the medulla it approaches still nearer to the dorsal surface and appears to form 'the greater part of a strand, which is termed the posterior longitudinal bundle (Figs. 340 and 341). The detached head of the anterior horn of gray matter of the cord, as it is traced upwards, is observed to cling closely to its original relationship with the anterior basis-bundle. It is applied to the outer side of this strand, and, gradually becoming smaller, finally disappears at the level of the lower part of the inferior olivary nucleus. Cuneate and Gracile Strands, with their Nuclei.—As the funiculus gracilis and the funiculus cuneatus of the posterior column of the cord are traced up into the medulla they seem to increase in bulk, and in transverse sections they assume the form of massive wedge-shaped strands, quite distinct from each other. When the decussation of the pyramids is fully established they change their shape. They increase in width and lose considerably in depth, and consequently the transverse diameter of the area which they occupy becomes greater. As a result of this, they push outwards the posterior horn of gray matter to such a degree that very soon it comes to lie transversely and in the same straight line with its fellow of the opposite side (Figs. 336 and 337). The substantia gelatinosa Funiculus gracilis Fig. 338.—Section through the Closed Pabt of Hdman Medulla immediately above the Decussation of the Pyramids. Eolandi, at the same time, becomes increased in quantity and presents a horse- shoe-shaped outline in transverse section. It clasps within its concavity the somewhat re,duced head of the posterior horn, and forms with it a conspicuous circular mass of gray matter which lies close to the surface, and produces upon it the bulging termed the funiculus and tubercle of Eolando. The basal portion of the posterior horn of gray matter remains upon the dorsal and lateral aspect of the central canal, and forms a portion of the central gray mass of the closed part of the medulla; but very soon the neck of the horn is invaded by bundles of fibres