668 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. in the ganglia,ted cord or its peripheral branches, become connected with the sympathetic ganghon cells, or with the cells of peripheral (collateral or terminal) ganglia, from which again (non-medullated) axons proceed to supply branches to viscera and vessels. The idtimate destination of the upper stream of white rami from the thoracic nerves has been mentioned ia the description of the cervical sympathetic ; the peripheral branches supplying thoracic organs contain vaso-motor-fibres for the lungs and aorta. The peripheral branches from the lower part of the sympathetic cord in the thorax, receiving white rami from the lower thoracic nerves, are mainly destined for distribution to structures below the diaphragm. They comprise (a) viscero-inhil:)itory fibres for the stomach and intestines; (b) motor fibres for part of the rectum; (c) pilo-motor fibres for the lower part of the body; (d) vaso-motor fibres for the abdominal aorta and its branches, and for the lower limbs; (e) secretory, and (/) sensory fibres for the abdominal viscera. The thoracic part of the sympathetic cord is placed upon the heads of the ribs, and is covered over by the pleura. The branches from the gangliated cord are, as in the neck, divisible into two sets—(A) Central branches, communicating with other nerves, and (B) peripheral branches, distributed in a plexiform manner to the thoracic and abdominal viscera. Central Communicating Branches. — The white rami communicantes from the thoracic nerves have already been described. Passing forwards from the beginning of the anterior primary divisions of the nerves, they become connected with the ganglia or the commissural cord of the sympathetic. The gray rami communicantes are branches arising irregularly from each thoracic ganglion, which, passing backwards along with the white rami, join the anterior primary divisions of the thoracic nerves. Peripheral Branches of Distribution.—These branches arise irregularly from the ganglia and the commissural cord. They are composed of non-medullated fibres (splanchnic efferent), derived from the ganglion cells, and meduUated fibres (splanchnic efferent and afferent), derived directly from the white rami, without the intervention of the cells of the ganglia. 1. Pulmonary Branches.—From the ganghated cord opposite the second, third, and fourth ganglia fine filaments arise wliich joiu the posterior pulmonary plexus. 2. Aortic Branches.—The upper part of the thoracic aorta receives fine branches from the upper five thoracic ganglia. 3. Splanchnic Nerves. — Three nerves arise from the lower part of the gangliated cord, partly from the ganglia themselves, and partly from the com- missural cord between the ganglia. Passing downwards over the bodies of the thoracic vertebrae they pierce the diaphragm, to end in the abdomen. (a) The great splanchnic nerve (n. splanchnicus major) arises from the gangliated cord between the fifth and ninth ganglia. By the union of several irregular strands a nerve of considerable size is formed, which descends in the posterior mediastinum, and piercing the crus of the diaphragm, joins at once the upper end of the semilunar ganglion of the solar plexus. In its course in the thorax the great splanchnic ganglion (g. splanchnicum) is found upon the nerve. It is more prominent in the foetus than in the adult. From both nerve and ganglion branches arise in the thorax for the supply of the oesophagus and descending thoracic aorta (Fig. 479). (&) The small splanchnic nerve (n. splanchnicus minor) arises from the gangliated cord opposite to the ninth and tenth ganglia. It passes over the bodies of the lower thoracic vertebrae, pierces the diaphragm near or along with the great splanchnic nerve, and ends in the solar plexus (aortico-renal ganglion). (c) The least splanchnic nerve (n. splanchnicus imus) arises from the last thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic, or it may be a • branch of the smaller splanchnic nerve. It pierces the diaphragm, and ends in the renal plexus. » THE LUMBAR PAET OF THE SYMPATHETIC COED. The lumbar part of the sympathetic cord is placed upon the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, internal to the origins of the psoas muscle, and in front