328 THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. are concealed by the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum. On the finger each tendon is placed at first beneath, and afterwards upon, the tendon of the flexor sublimis digitorum, in its passage through the digital sheath. The lumbrical muscles passing downwards on the radial side of the deep flexor tendons lie beneath the digital vessels and nerves ou their way to their insertion. The flexor longus pollicis arises from the anterior surface of the radius in its middle two-fourths, and from a corresponding portion of the interosseous mem- brane. Its radial origin is limited above by the oblique line and the origin of the flexor sultlimis digitorum, and below by the insertion of the pronator quadratus muscle. The muscle ends above the wrist in a tendon, which passes into the hand beneath the anterior annular ligament, enveloped in a special synovial sheath. In the palm the tendon is directed downwards along the inner side of the thenar eminence, between the flexor brevis and adductor muscles of the thumb, to be inserted into the terminal phalanx of the thumb. In the forearm the muscle is deeply placed beneath the flexor sublimis digitorum. The radial artery lies upon it, and the anterior interosseous artery and nerve intervene between it and the flexor profundus digitorum. It crosses over the insertion of the pronator quadratus near the wrist. The pronator quadratus is a quadrilateral muscle, occupying the lower fourth of the forearm. It arises from the lower fourth of the anterior border and surface of the ulna, and is directed outwards to be inserted into the lower fourth of the anterior surface of the radius. The muscle is deeply placed beneath the flexor tendons, the radial and ulnar arteries, and the ulnar and median nerves. It conceals the lower part of the inter- osseous membrane, the radius and ulna, and the anterior interosseous artery and nerve, which pass behind its upper border. The pronator quadratus is subject to considerable variations. It may even be absent; or it may have an origin from radius or ulna, or from both bones, and an insertion into the carpus. The abductor pollicis (m. abductor pollicis brevis) arises from the anterior annular ligament and the ridge of the trapezium. Strap-like in form, it is inserted SHORT MUSCLES OF THE HAND. Muscles of the Thumb. Deep palinai- arch (along with flee)) Abductor and flexor m\. Xmv \^| BREVIS MINIMI DIQITI (cut) V'®\ ^MiV Transverse metacarpal Interosseous muscle- Interosseous musclk—^^^"^fet Interosseous muscle —^^^^"-^J- branch of ulnar nerve) Opponens minimi dioiti ^. N^X-^^^s ligament" Flexor carpi ULNARib- Fig. 244.—Short Mu.scles of the Hand. into tlie outer side of the first phalanx of the thumb and the capsule of the meta- Oarpo-phalangeal joint.