1032 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. side lie the coils of tlie small bowel and the psoas; to the outer side is the lateral wall of the abdomen. Its i^^sterior surface, which is free from peritoneum as a rule (Fig. 673), is connected by areolar tissue to the iUacns muscle as far up as the crest of the ilium, to the quadratus hunliorum above this, and finally to the lower and outer part of the right kidney. In the great majority of cases only the two sides and the anterior surface are covered by peritoneum, the posterior suiface being destitute of a serous coa;t (Fig. 073). In a small proportion of l)odies, however, the ascending colon is provided with a complete peritoneal coat and a mesentery, but this latter is so short that it admits of ])ut a slight amount of movement in the gut. Like tlie csecuin, the ascending colon is frequently found distended with gas or f;eces after death, hence in part its large size and jtrominence as compared with the descending colon, whic h i.s generally empty. Hepatic Flexure (fiexura coli dextra).—The hepatic flexure is the ])ent piece of the large intestine between the end of the ascending and the 1)eginning of tlie transverse colons (Figs. G(S8 and 699). When the ascending colon, lying on the front of the kidney, reaches the under surface of the liver, it bends—usually acutely, sometimes obtusely—forwards and to the left, and on reaching the front of the descending duodenum, passes into the transverse colon. The flexure is placed between the descending duodenum internajly and the lower thin margin of the liver, or the lateral abdominal wall, externally: aliove, it corresponds to the colic impression on the liver, and l)eliind it rests on the kidney. Its peritoneal relations are similar to those of the ascending colon. Transverse Colon (colon transversum).—This is the long and arched portion of the large intestine which lies between the hepatic and splenic flexures. It begins where the colon crosses the descending duodenum at the end of the hepatic flexure (Fig. 699). From this it runs transversely to the left, and for the first few- inches is comparatively fixed, l)eing united to the front of the descending duo- denum and tlie head of the pancreas eitlier by a very short mesentery or by areolar tissue. Immediately beyond this a long mesentery is developed, which allows the colon to hang down in front of the smaU intestine, at a considerable distance from the posterior abdominal wall. Towards its left extremity the mesentery shortens again, thus bringing the gut towards the tail of the pancreas (Fig. 688), along which it runs upwards into the left liypochondrium, under cover of the stomach, as far as the lower end of the spleen, where it passes into the splenic flexure (Fig. 687). Its two ends lie in the right and left hypochondriac regions respect- ively, whilst its middle portion hangs down into the umbilical, or even the hypogastric region. Its average length is al)0ut 19 or 20 inches (47"5 to oO'O cm.), that is more than; twice the distance, in a direct line, between its two extremities. This great length is accounted for by the very irregular course wliicli tlie bowel pursues. Relations.—Tlie greater part of tlie transverse colon lies behind the great omentum, which must consequently be turned upwards in order to expose it. Ahore, it is in contact, from right to left (Fig. 699), with the liver and gall-bladder, the stomach, and, near its left end, with the tail of the pancreas and lower end of the spleen (Fig. (588). In front are placed the omentum and the anterior alidominal wall; towards its termination the stomach is likewise in front. Behind, it first lies in contact with the descending duodenum and head of the pancreas; beyond this, where it hangs down, the small intestine is placed below and behind, and it is con- nected to the posterior alidomirial wall (more correctly, to the anterior border of the pancreas) by the transverse mesocolon. It is also loosely connected to the stomach l)y the great omentum, which is attached to its anterior surface. The transverse mesocolon and the great omentum are described with the peritoneum, p. 1046. The transverse colon is completely covered by peritoneum, with the exception of the first few inches of its posterior surface, which are often, if not usually, uncovered.