592 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. Posterior Interosseous Nerve. External condyle Extensor iniis (orif,'ii The posterior interosseous nerve (r. iirofuudus, n. iuterosseus antibrachii dorsalis) is entirely muscular and articular in its distribution, and it arises like the radial beneath the brachio- radialis muscle. Directed obliquely downwards and backwards, it reaches the back of the forearm, after passing round the outer side of the radius, by piercing the fibres of the supinator radii brevis muscle (Fig. 436). On the back of the forearm it is placed in the upper part of its course be-' neath the superficial extensor muscles, and upon the sup- inator radii brevis and ex- tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, along with the posterior inter- osseous artery. In the lower half of the forearm it passes- beneath the extensor longus pollicis, and lies upon the interosseous membrane. At the wrist it passes beneath the extensor tendons on to the back of the carpus, where it terminates in a gangliform enlargement of small size, from which blanches pass to the inter-carpal articulations. The posterior interosseous nerve supplies the following branches:— (1) Terminal articular branches to the carpal joints. (2) Muscular branches, in its course through the forearm. Thus on the outer side of the radius it supplies the extensor carpi radialis l)revior and the supinator brevis muscle before it enters the fibres of the last- named muscle. After emerg- ing from the supinator brevis it supplies a large bundle of nerves which enter the extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris near their origins. Lower down the forearm the nerve gives off branches to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor longus and extensor brevis pollicis, and Fig. 436.—The Muscles of the Back of the Forearm , - " V '« (the superficial muscles have been reflected). eXtCnSOr lUQlClS. Triceps (long heaj) I I iceps (outer head) i—Brachio-radialis Bracliialis anticus Biceps 11 iceps (inner head) I'/xtensor carpi radialis ijior (origin) I'jXtensor carpi radialis brcv'ior (origin) M USCJULO-SPIRAL NERVE TERIOR INTEROSSEOUS riiVE xtensor ossis metacarpi oUicis Extensor carpi radialis longior (tendon) Extensor carpi radialis brevier (tendon) 1 xtensor brevis pollicis Extensor carpi radialis longior (tendon) Extensor ossis raetacariii pollicis Extensor carpi radialis lirevior (tendon) Extensor brevis pollicis Extensor longus pollicis First dorsal inter- osseous nuiscle