50(i TJIE NERVOUS SYSTEM. The corpus subbhalaiuioum, iu llic I'resh condition, presents a brownish colour, partly from the fact that its cells are pigmented, and partly also on account of the numerous capillary blood-vessels which pervade its substance. Pineal Body (corpus pineale).—This is a small, dark, reddish body, about the size of a cherrj'-stone and shaped after the fashion of a Hr-cone. Placed between the hinder ends of the two thalami, it occupies the depression ou the dorsal aspect of the mesencephalon, which intervenes between the two superior quadrigeminal bodies. Its base, wliich is directed upwards, is attached by a hollow stalk or peduncle. This stalk is separated into a dorsal and a ventral part hj the prolonga- tion backwards into it of a small pointed recess of the cavity of the third ventricle. The dorsal part of the stalk curves outwards and forwards, and on each optic thalamus becomes continuous with the taenia thalami and the subjacent stria medullaris; the ventral part is folded round a narrow but conspicuous, cord-like band of white matter, which crosses the mesial plane immediately above the base of the pineal body and receives the name of the posterior commissure of tlie cerebrum. The pineal body is not composed of nervous elements. The only nerves in its midst are the sympathetic filaments which enter it, with its blood-vessels. It is composed of spherical and tubular follicles, filled with epithelial cells, and containing a A^ariable amount of gritty, calcareous naatter. The pineal liody is a rudimentary structure, but in certain vertebrates it attains a much higher degree of development than in man. In the lizard, blind-worm, etc., it is present in the form of the so-called fiineal eye. In structure it resembles, in these animals, an invertebrate eye, and it possesses a long stalk, in which nerve-fibres are developed. Further, it is carried through an aperture in the cranial wall, and consequently lies close to the surface. Trigonum Habenulse.—The small, triangular, depressed area which receives this name is placed immediately in front of the superior quadrigeminal l)ody in the interval between the peduncle of the pineal body and the hinder end of the thalamus (Fig. o7-'>, p. 502). It marks the position of an important collection of nerve-cells, which constitute the ganglion habenulse. The axons of these cells are collected ou the ventral aspect of the ganglion into a bundle, called the fasciculus retrofiexus, which takes a curved course downwards and forwards in the tegmentum of the mesencephalon. The fasciculus retrofiexus lies close to the inner side of tlie red nucleus, and finally comes to an end in a group of cells termed the ganglion inter- pedunculare, situated in the lower part of the locus perforatus posticus (see p. 498). The ganglion habenuljB is likewise intimately connected with the stria medul- laris and the dorsal part of the stalk of the pineal body. As previously stated, tlie stria medullaris — a very evident band of white matter—lies on the optic thalamus, suljjacent to the ependymal ridge termed the tienia thalami. When traced backwards, many of the fibres of the stria medullaris are observed to end amongst the cells of the ganglion habenulas, whilst others are continued past the ganglion to enter the peduncle of the pineal body, and, through it, to reach the ganglion liabenulae of the opposite side, in connexion with the cells of which they terminate. The stria medullaris, therefore, ends partly in the ganglion habenula? of its own side and partly in the corresponding ganglion of the opposite side. The decussation of fibres across the middle line forms the dorsal part of the pineal stalk or peduncle, and is frequently termed the commissura habenularum. AVhen the stria medullaris is traced in the opposite direction, it is noticed to split into a dorsal and ventral part near the anterior pillar of the fornix. The dorsal part turns abruptly upwards, and, joining the fornix, is carried in it to the hippocampus major or cornu ammonis from cells in whicli its fibres take origin. The ventral part turns downwards and appears to spring from a collection of cells in the gray matter on the base of the brain close to the optic chiasma. The stria medullaris is believed to form a part of the olfactory apparatus. Commissura Posterior.—The posterior commissure is a slender band of white matter, which crosses the middle line under cover of the stalk of the pineal body and overlies the entrance of the aqueduct of Sylvius into the third ventricle. The connexions of this little band are not satisfactorily established, but Held believes