HIP-JOINT. 285 bone through its articular auricular surfaces, and in this position it is suspended by the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, and kept securely in place by the " grip " due to the irregularity of the opposed surfaces of the two sacro-iliac articulations. Since the weight of the trunk is trans- mitted to the anterior and upjjer end of this sacral platform, there is a natural tendency for the sacrum to revolve upon the transverse axis which passes through its sacro-iliac joints. If this were permitted, the jiromontory of the sacrum would descend downwards and forwards towards the pelvic cavity, as really does occur in certain deformities. This revolution or tilting up- wards of the forepart of the sacrum is prevented by the action of the great and small sacro- sciatic ligaments, extending from the ischial tuberosity to the hinder and lower end of the suspended platform of the sacrum. Not only so, but these ligaments, acting on a rigid sacrum, tend to hold up the weight upon the sacral promontory. The various ligaments passing between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum and ilium retain the weight of the trunk in position upon the anterior end of the sacrum, and resist its tendency to slip forwards and downwards towards the pelvic cavity. The entire weight of the trunk and pelvis is transmitted to the heads of the thigh bones in the most advantageous position, both for effectiveness and the strengthening of the inverted innominate arch, for it will be evident that the heads of the femora thrust inwards upon the convex side of the arch, very much at the place where the arches are weakest, viz. at the springing of the arch from its piers. The forces which tend to cause movement of the j^elvic bones during parturition act from within the pelvis, and have for their object the increase of the various jjelvic diameters, in order that the foBtal head may more readily be transmitted. For tliis purpose the wedge-like dorsal surface of the sacrum is driven backwards, and a certain amount of extra space may thereby be obtained. An important factor, however, in the increase of the pelvic capacity at this period is found in the relaxation of its various ligaments. [schial spine THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. THE HIP-JOINT. The human body provides no more perfect example of an enarthrodial diarthrosis than the hip-joint (articulatio coxai). Combined with all that variety of movement which characterises a multi-axial joint, it nevertheless presents great stability, which has been obtained by simple arrangen^nts, for restricting the range of its natural movements. This stability is of paramount importance for the maintenance ofi the erect attitude, and the me- chanical adaptations whereby this result is obtained are such that the erect attitude may be preserved without any great degree of sustained muscular effort. Articular Surfaces.—TRe head of the femur is globular in shape, and considerably exceeds a hemisphere. It is clothed by hyaline articular cartilage on those parts which come into direct contact with the acetabulum. There is frequently more or less of extension of the articular cartilage from the head to the adjoining anterior part of the neck, an extension which is accounted for by the close and constant apposi- tion of this portion of the neck with the hinder aspect of the ilio-femoral ligament. The limit of the articular cartilage covering the head is indicated by a sinuous border. Further, there is an absence of articular cartilage from the pit or depression on the head of the femur. Transverse acetabular ligament, Fig. 221.—Dissection of the Hip-Joint. Bottom of the acetabulum lemoved, and capsule of the joint thrown outwards towards the trochanters.