THE EMBKYONIC AEEA. 19 cells projects outwardsj and gradually insinuates itself between the' ectoderm and the entoderm over the whole area of the vesicle, except in certain regions to be afterwards described. This lamina is the rudiment of the mesoderm. With the formation of the mesoderm the blastodermic membrane becomes trilaminar. The majority of the cells of the mesoderm are derived from those of the primitive streak, but it is said that cells from the entoderm also take part in its formation. Young mesodermal cells are round or ovoid, and some give off numerous processes. In later stages they may assume various shapes, and many closely resemble the cells of the ectoderm or those of the entoderm. As the blastodermic vesicle grows, the embryonic or germinal area becomes pyriform and increases in length, principally in the posterior part of its extent where the primitive streak is situated; at the same time the streak lengthens and becomes more linear. For a short time a groove, the primitive groove, appears on the surface of the streak. It is deepest in front, where in some mammals, includ- ing man, a small transitory perforation is formed,' the neurenteric canal. A second broader and shallower groove then appears in the embryonic area immediately in front of the primitive streak ; this is the neural groove, the rudiment of the nervous system. The neural groove, its bounding folds, and the nervous Fig. 13.—Transverse Section op a Ferret Embryo. Showing neural groove before the separation of the paraxial from the lateral mesoderm. C. Ccelom. GC. Germinal cell. PM. Paraxial mesoderm. SoM. Somatic mesoderm. EC. Ectoderm. N. Notochord. SB. Spongioblast. SoP. Somatopleure. EN. Entoderm. NG. Neural groove. SG. Spinal ganglion. SpM. Splanchnic mesoderm. SpP. Splanchnopleure, system subsequently developed from them are formed entirely of ectodermal elements, which at first are continuous with those forming the outer layer of the embryo. The posterior end of the neural groove embraces the anterior end of the primitive streak and groove, and at this period th'e neurenteric canal forms a communication between the interior of the ovum and the bottom of the neural groove, which latter afterwards becomes the closed canal of the central nervous system. In some vertebrates the neurenteric canal persists for a considerable period, and upon the development of the alimentary canal it constitutes a communicating channel between it and the cavity of the neural tube. As the neural groove grows backwards the anterior part of the primitive streak is absorbed, and although the posterior part continues to grow, the primitive streak as a whole diminishes in length; ultimately the greater part of the primitive streak disappears, but a portion is recognisable for a considerable time extending from the base of the tail, a transitory structure in the human embryo, to the ventral wall of the body. This portion forms the posterior boundary of the primitive alimentary canal; it remains bilaminar, and is called the cloacal membrane. The primitive streak is of great morphological importance ; recent researches have shown that from it and the cells in its neighbourhood practically the whole of the body of the embryo, with the exception of the anterior part of the head and heart region, is developed. It probably represents the mouth of a remote (pre-vertebrate) ancestor, the fused lips of which formed the body of a primitive vertebrate animal. The aperture of this mouth is still represented in lower vertebrates by an opening known as the blastopore. The neurenteric canal is the only represen- tative of the opening in the human subject. The neural or medullary groove is bounded laterally by medullary folds