DEVELOPMENT OF INTESTINAL CANAL AND PEEITONEUM. 1055 iiotochord, and bounded towards one end by the liead fold, at the otlier by the tail fold, and at the sides by the lateral folds. The anterior portion of this cavity, situated within the head fold, is known as the foregut, and from it are developed the back part of the mouth, the tongue, pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and the greater portion of the duodenum, together with the organs formed as outgrowths from these. Similarly, the posterior tubular portion, contained within the tail fold, constitutes the hindgut, and from it are formed the rectum, except its anal end, and a portion of the colon. The middle division, known as the midgut, gives rise to the rest of the digestive tube, and is at first widely open below, where it is continuous with the cavity of the yolk sac. Soon, however, it is gradually closed in by the approximation of the four folds which meet around the margins of the umbilical orifice, and the communication between the alimentary canal and the yolk sac is thus reduced to a narrow passage—the vitelline or vitello-intestinal duct. This duct joins that portion of the primitive tube which subse(juently forms the lower part of the ileum, and a remnant of it is sometimes found in the adult, when it is known as Meckel's diverticulum (see p. 1022). At this stage the primitive canal has the form of a nearly straight tube, blind at both extremities, and communicating only with the cavity of the yolk sac. It is lined through- out by the entoderm, the cells of which form the epithelial lining of the adult canal; outside this it is invested by the splanclmopleure, or splanchnic layer of the mesoderm, and is separated from the somatopleure or body wall by the coelum or body cavity, which later on gives rise to the pleural, pericardial, and peritoneal cavities of the body. At the back, the splanchnic mesoderm which surrounds the canal passes dorsalwards, to become continuous with the general mesoderm beneath the notochord, thereby forming a fold which connects the primitive alimentary tube to the dorsal wall of the embryo, and constitutes the primitive mesentery. This is at first of considerable thickness. At a later period it becomes reduced to a thin sheet of mesodermic tissue, covered on each side by a layer of flattened endothelial cells, whicii suspends the primitive alimentary canal within the body cavity of the embi-yo. At each end of the embryo, an ingrowth of the ectoderm takes place, which meets and finally becomes continuous with the corresponding extremity of the primitive alimentary tube, giving rise to the mouth and anus respectively. The former of these ingrowths is known as the stomatodseum, and from it is formed the epithelial lining of the vestibule of the mouth, of the salivary glands, the gums, and the greater part of the nasal cavity, as well as the anterior lobe of the pituitary body. From the other ingrowth—the proctodseum —are formed the anal aperture and probably the anal canal, below the level of the anal valves. An account of the formation of the mouth and the anus will be found on pages 32 and 43 respectively. At an early date special outgrowths of the lining entoderm take place from the portion of the foregut corresponding to the future duodenum. From these diverticula the liver and pancreas are formed : the former grows forwards from the gut, whilst the latter grows backwards into the dorsal mesentery (see pages 1072 and 1078 respectively). The primitive alimentary canal is now a tubular cavity, suspended from the dorsal wall of the embryo, within the ccelom, by a simple mesentery (Fig. 711). In front, it comnmnicates with the exterior through the stomatodcEum or primitive mouth, and in the region of the future duodenum the liver appears as a bifid outgrowth, followed soon by outgrowths for the formation of the pancreas. Finally, at a date which has not been precisely determined, the anal membrane disappears, and its posterior end com- municates with the exterior through the proctodseum. Stomach.—As early as the fourth week the foregut exhibits a fusiform enlargement in the region of the developing heart, which is the first evidence of the differentiation of the stomach : this enlargement is at first symmetrical, and mesially placed. Soon, how- ever, as the diaphragm is being formed, the stomach descends into the abdomen, and its dorsal wall—the future great curvature—begins to grow more rapidly than the ventral wall. As a result the whole organ becomes somewhat curved, and its lower end is carried forwards from the posterior abdominal wall, giving rise to the curvature of the duodenum. The excessive growth of its posterior wall causes the stomach to turn over on to its right side, which now becomes posterior or dorsal.. In this rotation its upper or cardiac portion moves to the left of the middle line, and the whole organ assumes an oblique direction across the abdomen. Already, at the fifth or sixth week, the adult form of the stomach is pretty clearly indicated. This rotation of the stomach around its long axis, whicii is accompanied by a rotation of the lower end of the oesophagus, explains the nnsynunetrical position of the two pneumogastric nerves In the adult the left nerve is found on the front of the stomach,.