459 INTEKNAL STEUCTUKE OF THE MEDULLA. GRACILENUCL. CUNEATENUCL. by fibres, some of which pass straight through the gray lamina, whilst others end in con- nexion with the cells. It is only in mammals that the olivary nuclei are found well developed. As the fibres of the fillet decussate and assume a longitudmal direction they come to lie between the olivary nuclei of opposite sides, and hence the term inter- olivary stratum (stratum interolivare lemnisci) is frequently applied to them. Restiform Body (corpus restiforme).—The gracile and cuneate nuclei gradually give place to the restiform body in the upper part of the posterior district of the medulla. Fibres from various quarters converge to form this great strand. It first takes shape as a thin superficial layer of longitudinal fibres, which are gathered together on the outside of the cuneate nucleus; but after that nucleus has come to an end, and as the upper part of the medulla is reached, the restiform body is seen to have grown into a massive strand, which presents a kidney-shaped or oval outline on transverse section (Fig. 341), and which ultimately enters the white central core of the cerebellum as its inferior peduncle. The fibres which build up the restiform body are the following: (1) the direct cerebellar tract; (2) the posterior super- ficial arcuate fibres; (3) the anterior super- ficial arcuate fibres ; and (4) cerebello-olivary fibres. The direct cerebellar tract extends upwards from the lateral column of the cord. In the lateral district of the medulla it occupies a similar position; but before the olivary eminence is reached it inclines backwards, crosses the postero-lateral furrow, and passes obliquely upwards into the restiform body. As its fibres diverge backwards they pass over the tubercle of Kolando and cover up the spinal root of the trigeminal nerve and the substantia Rolandi, thus shutting them out from the surface. The fibres of the direct cerebellar tract enter into the outer or superficial part of the restiform body. The posterior superficial arcuate fibres take origin from the gracile and cuneate nuclei, and enter the superficial part of the restiform body of the same side. The anterior superficial arcuate fibres proceed from the lower portions of the gracile and cuneate nuclei of the opposite side. After decussating in the middle line, it can easily be determined that all the deep arcuate fibres which arise from these nuclei do not enter the fillet. A large proportion of them gain the surface by sweeping round the inner aspect of the pyramid in the antero-mesial fissure. Many of them likewise gain the surface by piercing the pyramid or by passing out between it and the olive. These fibres constitute the anterior superficial arcuate group, and on the surface of the medulla they sweep backwards around it, forming a thin layer over the olivary eminence and ultimately reaching the restiform body. The anterior superficial arcuate fibres, as well as the direct cerebellar tract-fibres, cover over the trigeminal spinal root, which thus comes to take up a deeper posi- tion in the substance of the medulla (Figs. 340 and 341). Amongst tlie fibres which reach tlie surface of the medulla in this way KciUiker includes fibres from the striae acusticae. If this be the case, these fibres connect the cochlear nucleus with the cerebellum, the path being striae acusticae, superficial arcuate fibres, and restiform body (vide p. 481). The fibres of the direct cerebellar tract, which come from the cells of the posterior vesicular column of the cord, and the superficial posterior arcuate fibres, which are derived from the cells of the gracile and cuneate nuclei, do not cross the mesial plane, but enter the restiform body of the same side. The anterior superficial arcuate fibres arise from the cells of the cuneate and gracile nuclei, and cross the mesial plane so as to gain the restiform body of the opposite side. The cerebello-olivary fibres are only seen in the upper part of the medulla. They Fig. 342.—Diagram, Wliich shows in part the fibres which enter into the constitution of the restiform body.