THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 766 far as the lower border of the external pterygoid muscle. It hes between the spheno-mandibular ligament and the neck of the jaw, along with the auriculo- temporal nerve and the internal maxillary vein. The second part is in the zygo- matic fossa, and ascends upwards and forwards. It may he superficial to, or under cover of, the lower head of the external pterygoid mirscle. In the former case it is situated between tlie temporal and external pterygoid muscles, and in the latter between the external pterygoid muscle and the branches of the third division of the fifth nerve. The third part passes Ijetween the upper and the lower heads of the external pterygoid, through the pterygo-maxillary fissure and into the spheno-maxillary fossa. Branches.—From the first part.—(a) Deep auricular (a. avmcularis profunda), a small branch which rises in the parotid gland and passes upwards to enter the external auditory meatus. It supplies the temporo-mandibular joint, the parotid gland, and the external meatus, and anastomoses with branches of the superficial temporal and posterior auricular arteries. (J)) The tympanic (a. tympanica anterior), a variable and small branch which com- mences in the parotid gland. It runs upwards and backwards, traverses the Glasseriau fissure, and enters the tympanum through its outer wall. In the tympanic cavity it anastomoses with tympanic branches from the internal carotid and the ascending pharyngeal arteries, and with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricuhx?, forming with the latter, in yoinig subjects, a circular anastomosis round the tympanic membrane. (c) Middle Meningeal (a. meningea media).—The largest branch of the internal maxillar}'. It ascends between the external pterygoid muscle and the spheno-mandibular ligament, and passes between the two roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve and through the foramen spinosum, to enter the middle fossa of the cranial cavity. Before it enters the skull it lies behind the third division of the fifth nerve, and is accompanied by two vense comites which also pass through the foramen spinosum. In the middle cranial fossa it passes forward and upwards for a short distance, in a groove on the great wing of the sphenoid, between the dura mater and the bone, and divides into anterior and posterior terminal branches Branches.—(i.) Petrosal (ramus petrosus superficialis).—A small branch which arises from the middle meningeal soon after it enters the cranium. It passes through the hiatus Fallopii and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery ; it also sends some small branches into the tympanic cavity. (ii.) Gasserian.—Minute branches which supph' the Gasserian ganglion and the roots of the fifth cranial nerve. (iii.) Tympanic (a. tympanica superior).—A small twig which reaches the tympanic cavity through the canal for the tensor tympani muscle, or through the petro-squamous suture. (iv.) Orbital.—An anastomosing branch which occasionally arises from the anterior terminal branch. It passes through the foramen lacerum anterius into the orbit, and anastomoses with the lachrymal artery. (v.) Anterior terminal, the larger of the two terminal branches, passes upwards along the great wing of the sphenoid to the antero-inferior angle of the parietal bone, where it is sometimes enclosed in a distinct bonj' canal; it is continued upwards a short distance behind the anterior border of the parietal bone almost to the vertex of the skull, sending branches forwards into the anterior, and backwards towards the posterior cranial fossa. (vi.)' The posterior terminal branch passes backwards from the great wing of the sphenoid to the scpiamous part of the temporal bone, beyond which it ascends to the middle of the inner s'urface of the parietal bone. It sends branches upwards to the vertex, and backwards towards the posterior cranial fossa. By means of its various branches the middle meningeal artery anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, with meningeal branches from the occipital, ascending pharyngeal, ophthalmic, and lachrymal arteries; also with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular, the small meningeal artery, with.the deep temporal arteries through the substance of the temporal bone, and with its fellow of the opposite side. (r/) A small meningeal branch (ramus meningeus accessorius) may arise either directly from the first part of the internal maxillary or from its middle meningeal branch. It passes upwards, on the inner side of the external pterygoid muscle, enters the middle fossa of the skull through the foramen ovale, supplies the Gasserian ganglioia and the dura mater, and terminates by anastomosing with branches of the middle meningeal artery. (e) The inferior dental (a. alveolaris inferior) is a branch of moderate size which passes downwards between the spheno-mandibular ligament and the mandible to the mandibular foramen. It is accompanied by the inferior dental nerve which lies in front.