48 GENEEAL EMBEYOLOGY. of description it is usual to divide the amnion fold into four parts, the cephalic, the caudal, and the two lateral amnion folds; these, however, are all continuous with one another. The inner part of the fold, which is formed from the amniotic area, is termed the true amnion, and tlie outer part, formed from the cliorionic area, the false amnion. The latter term is, however, synonymous with chorion, and as it is mis- leading, it should be avoided. As the amnion is formed from the amniotic area of the blastoderm after the extension of the coelom, it must consist, as previously mentioned, of ectoderm and somatic mesoderm, and as the surface of the amniotic area is reversed during the formation of the amnion folds, it is obvious that in the fully-formed anniion the ectodeimal layer is internal and the somatic mesoderm external. After the amnion is completed its cavity is distended with Huid. As it expands it gradually obliterates the extra-embryonic part of the cffilomic cavity, and finally its outer surface, of somatic mesoderm, comes into contact and fuses with the somatic mesoderm on the inner surface of the chorion. At this period the cavities in the ovum are the amniotic cavity, the remains of the yolk-sac, and those portions of the original blastodermic and ccclomic spaces which have been included in the embryo. In the human ovum, when the amnion folds luiite and the true amnion separates from the chorion, the embryo and its enclosing amnion would be free within the cavity of the chorion, or extra-embryonic ccx3lom, were it not that a very short cord of somatic mesoderm and ectoderm, the body-stalk, connects the posterior end of the embryo with the somatic mesoderm on the inner surface of the chorion. The Body-Stalk.—To thoroughly imderstand how this union is effected in the human ovum, and to comprehend the nature of the body-stalk, it is necessary to refer to some striking peculiarities which are to be observed in the earlier stages in the development of the human embryo. AVhen segmentation is completed, and the morula is converted into a blastula by the appearance of a cavity in its interior, the human ovum consists of an outer layer, the ectoderm, and an inner cell mass (Figs. 10 and 37). The latter, liowever, which is attached to a small area of the ectoderm, does not, as in many mammals, extend itself by migration round the inner surface of that layer, and so transform the unilaminar into a bilaminar blastoderm and convert the cavity of the blastula into the blastodermic cavity. The sequence of events is different: a cavity or space appears in the inner cell mass itself (Figs. 38, 39, and 41), and this expanding rapidly, is ultimately converted into the yolk-sac and the alimentary canal of the embryo; it corresponds, therefore, with the blasto- dermic cavity of other mammals. Thus the entoderm, though derived fi'om the inner cell-mass, never lines the inner surface of the ectoderm except in the embryonic area, for soon after the apx^earance of the cavity of the inner cell-mass the mesoderm grows rapidly from the primitive streak and extends, not in a single layer, as in the majority of mammals, but as two layers, one over the outer surface of the entoderm, the splanchnic layer, and the other, the somatic layer, over the inner surface of the ectoderm. The cavity of the blastula is thus idtimately enclosed between the somatic and splanchnic layers of the mesoderm, and so becomes converted into the coelomic space (Fig. 39). As tlie mesoderm extends, the several areas of the blastoderm are differentiated as in other mammals, but the embryonic and anmiotic areas remain of i^elatively small size. The separation of the amnion from the chorion is effected at a very early period, before the folding off of tlie embryo has connnenced, but the somatic mesoderm growing from the posterior end of the embryonic area still retains its connexion with the similar layer on the inner surface of the chorion, and it forms a sliort, and for a time a broad stalk wlucli unites the embryo, and conse(iuently the amnion and the blastodermic cavity, with whicli the embryo is coiniected, to tlie chorion (Fig. 39). In addition to forming a bond of union between the embryo and the chorion the mesodermal stalk conducts blood-vessels from the embryo to the chorion, and more especially to its placental part. At an early period a pouch-like diverticulum projects from the posterior part of the entodermal sac. This is the allantoic diverticulum; it lies beneath the