258 THE ARTICULATIONS OE JOINTS. Articulation of Spine with Cranium. There are two articulations between the atlas and the occiput. Each is a diarthrosis in which movement takes place in relation to two axes, viz. the transverse and the antero-posterior. The condyle of the occiput being biconvex, fits into the biconcave superior articular surface of the atlas, while the long axes of the two joints are directed horizontally forwards and inwards. Ligaments.—Each articulation is provided with a capsular ligament which is thin but complete. It is attached to the rough non-articular surfaces surrounding the articular areas on the atlas and occiput. The following supplementary ligaments are the chief structures which bind the atlas to the occiput:— . The anterior occipito-atloid ligament (membrana atlanto-occipitalis anterior, Fig. 202) is a strong although thin membrane, attached inferiorly to the anterior arch of the atlas, and superiorly to the anterior half of the circuuiference of the foramen magnum. Laterally it is in continuity with the capsular ligaments, while in the mesial plane, where it extends from the anterior tubercle of the atlas to the basi-occiput, it presents a specially well-defined thickened band which might be regarded as a separate accessory ligament or as the beginning of the anterior common ligament of the vertebrae. The posterior occipito-atloid ligament (membrana atlanto-occipitalis posterior. Fig. 202) is another distinct but still thin membrane which is attached superiorly to the posterior half of the circumference of the foramen magnum, and inferiorly to the upper border of the posterior arch of the atlas. Laterally it also is continuous with the capsular ligaments. On each side of the mesial plane its inferior border is arched in relation to the vertebral groove, and is therefore to some extent free, in order to permit the passage of the posterior primary division of the first cervical nerve and the vertebral artery. Not infrequently this arched border becomes ossified, thus converting the groove in the bone into a foramen. Synovial membrane lines each of the capsular ligaments. There is no direct articulation between the axis and the occiput, but union between them is effected by means of the following accessory ligaments. The posterior occipito-axoid ligament (membrana tectoria. Fig. 203) is situated within the neural canal, and is usually regarded as the upward continuation of the posterior common ligament of the vertebral bodies. It extends from the posterior Fig. 203.—Dissection from behind op the Ligaments connecting the Occipital Bonh, the Atlas, AND THE Axis with each other. surface of the body of the axis to the basilar groove on the upper surface of the basi-occipital bone, spreading laterally on the circumference of the foramen magnum. Some of its deepest fibres are attached to the atlas immediately above the atlo-axoid articulation.