1188 SUKFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. dull note on percussion; this area is spoken of as the area of " superficial or absolute cardiac dulness." The level of the lower border of the lung is practically the same on both sides; it is mapped out by a line extending outwards from the lower extremity of the anterior liorder and passing through the sixth costal cartilage in the mid-clavicular line, and thence in a slightly curved direction, with the convexity downwards, across the lateral aspect of the chest to the tenth dorsal spine. This line crosses the eighth rib in the mid-axillary line and the tenth rib in the scapular line. To indicate the position of the oblique fissures a line is drawn from the second dorsal spine across the interscapular region to the root of the spine of the scapula, and thence downwards and outwards across the infraspinous fossa, to end at the lower border of the lung opposite the sixth costal cartilage, a finger's breadth external to the para-sternal line. When the arm is raised above the level of the shoulder, and the hand placed on the ))ack of the head, the inferior angle of the scapula is rotated upwards and forwards so that the vertebral border practi- cally corresponds with the line of the oblique fissure. The transverse fissure of the right lung is mapped o\it by drawing a hue from the anterior border of the lung, at the level of the fourth' costal cartilage, outwards and sHghtly upwards to join the middle of the oblique fissure. Pleura.—The line of reflexion of the right pleura from the back of the sternum may be said to correspond to the anterior border of the right lung. On the left side, the pleural reflexion corresponds to the anterior border of the left lung as far as the lower edge of the fourth chondro-sternal junction, from which point it diverges slightly and descends behind the left border of the sternum to the six til costal cartilage. The right costo-diaphragmatic reflexion (see Figs. 802 and 803) is indicated on the surface by a line drawn from the seventh chondro-sternal junction (sometimes the infra-sternal notch) downwards and outwards to a point 2 in. vertically above the angle of the tenth costal cartilage; from this point the line is carried with a slightly downward curve across the lateral aspect of the chest to the twelfth rib at the outer margin of the erector spinte; thence it passes below the twelfth rib and reaches the vertebral column at the level of the upper border of the twelfth dorsal spine. The left costo-diaphragmatic reflexion is indicated by a line drawn from a point opposite the sixth costal cartilage, a finger's breadth from its junction with the sternum, to a point one and a half inches vertically above the angle of the tenth costal cartilage, and thence to the spine, as on the right side, but at a slightly lower level. The costo-diaphragmatic reflexion reaches its lowest limit in the mid-axillary line two inches vertically above the tip of the eleventh costal cartilage, a level which may be readily indicated, according to Cunningham, by a point in the mid- axillary line intersected by a horizontal line drawn round the trunk at the level of the lowest i)art of the extremity of the first lumbar spine. The same author localises the level of the diaphragmatic pleural reflexion in the mammary line at the point where this line is intersected by another horizontal line at the level of the spine of the last dorsal vertebra. The relations of the pleura to the twelfth rib are of importance to the surgeon, especially in connexion with operations on the kidney (Fig. 631, p. 931). When this rib is not abnormally short, the pleural reflexion crosses it opposite the outer border of the erector spinte muscle, hence an incision may be carried deeply as far as the apex of the angle formed by the twelfth rib and the outer border of the erector spina; witliout entering the pleura. When, however, tlie twelfth rib does not reach the outer border of the erector spinse, an incision carried upwards into the apex of the angle between this muscle and the eleventh rib is certain to wound the pleura (Melsome). It is important, therefoi-e, to count the i-ibs from above downwards, in order not to mistake the eleventh for the twelfth, when the latter is rudimentary. Internal to the outer edge of the erector sjainaj the pleural reflexion lies below the level, of the twelfth rib, and not infrequently descends as far as the transverse process •of the first lumbar vertebra.