78 OSTEOLOGY. The seventh cervical vertebra, or vertebra prominens, receives the latter name from the outstanding nature of its spinous process, wliich ends in a single broad tubercle. This forms a well-marked surface projection at the back of the root of the neck. The transverse processes are broad from above downwards; they project consider- ably beyond those of the sixth. The maximum width between their extremities agrees with that between the transverse processes of the atlas, these two consti- tuting the widest members of the cervical series. The vertebrarterial foramen is small. Not infrequently the costal element is separate from the true transverse process, thus constituting a cervical rib. Variations.—The vertebrarterial foramen may be absent on one or other side. Thoeacic Vertebra. The dorsal or thoracic vertebrae (vertebrfe thoracales), twelve in number, are distinguished by having facets on the sides of their bodies for the heads of the ribs, and in most instances also articular surfaces on their transverse processes for the tubercles of the ribs (Figs. 54 and 55, p. 73). The body is described as characteristically heart-shaped, though in the upper and lower members of the series it undergoes transition to the typical forms of the cervical and lumbar vertebrae respectively. Its antero-posterior and transverse widths are nearly equal; the latter is greatest in line with the facets for the heads of the rib. The bodies are sligtitly thicker behind than in front, thus adapting themselves to the anterior concavity which the column displays in this region. The bodies of the second to the ninth inclusive, each possess four costal demi-facets— a superior pair placed on the upper margins of the body, close to the junction of the pedicle with the centrum, and an inferior pair situated on the lower edge, close to and in front of the inferior intervertebral grooves. When contiguous vertebrae are articulated, the upper pair of demi-facets of the lower vertebra coincide with the lower demi-facets of the higher vertebra, and, together with the intervening intervertebral disc, form an articular cup for the reception of the head of a rib. Of these facets on the body the upper pair are the primary articular surfaces for the head of the rib ; the lower are only acquired secondarily. Moreover, these facets, though apparently placed on the body, are in reality developed on the sides of the pedicles behind the line of union of the pedicles with the centrum (neuro-central synchondrosis), as will be explained hereafter. The pedicles are short and thick, and directed backwards and slightly upwards. The superior notch is faintly marked; the inferior notch is deep. The laminae are broad, flat, and sloping, having sharp upper and lower margins. When the vertebrae are superimposed the latter overlap the former so as to form an imbricated arrangement. The spinal foramen is smaller than in the cervical and lumbar regions, and nearly circular in shape. The spinous processes vary in length and direction, being shorter and more horizontal in the upper and lower members of the series, longest and most oblique in direction towards the middle of the series. All have a downward inclination, and are so arranged that they overlap one another. Triangular in section where they spring from the neural arch, they become laterally compressed towards their extremities, which are capped by more or less distinct tubercles. The transverse processes are directed backwards and outwards, and a little upwards. They gradually decrease in size and length from above downwards. Each has a some- what expanded extremity, the anterior surface of which, in the case of the upper ten vertebrai, is hollowed out in the form of a circular facet for articulation with the tubercle of the rib which rests in the upper demi-facet of the vertebra to which the transverse process belongs. The superior articular processes are vertical and have their surfaces directed backwards, slightly upwards, and a little outwards; the inferior, correspondingly forwards, downwards, and inwards. Certain of the dorsal vertebrae display characters by which they can readily be recognised. These are the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth, and sometimes the ninth.