1019 THE DUODENUM. Paraduodenal Fossa (fossa of Landzert).—This fossa, wliicli is best seen in the infant, is placed some distance to the left of the terminal part of the dnodenmn. It is produced by the inferior mesenteric vein raising up a fold of peritoneum, as it runs along the onter side of the fossa, and then inwards above it (see Fig. 689, where the vein, but not the fossa, is shown). It is limited below bv a special fold (the mesenterico-meso- colic fold). According to Moynihan, this is the only fossa to the left of the duodenum capable of developing into the sac of a hernia ; and when this occurs, the inferior mesenteric vein always lies in the anterior margin of the orifice of the sac (accompanied for some distance by the ascending branch of the left colic artery). In addition to the above, a duodeno-jejunal fossa at the front of the duodeno- jejunal flexure, and five other fossse, have—perhaps luinecessarily—been described in this region. Peritoneal Eelations of the Duodenum.—Whilst the i-elatioiis of the peritoneum to the second and tliird ])()i'ti(ius nf tlie duodeniuii are usually descriljed as in the foi'egoing account, it shoidd perliai)s lie jxiinted out, tliat it is not really the front, hut the right halt of the circum- ference of tlie descending jiortion which lias a serous coat. Sinnlarly, it is the lower and anterior half of tlie circunii'erence of the transverse jjart of the third portion whicli is clothed l)y jieritoneuni, whilst considerably more than half of the circumference of its ascending ternnnal part is covered ; for the peritoneum forms a fold running in Ijehind this part, in addition to c<3vering its left side and half its anterior aspect. Interior of Duodenum.—No valvulje eouniventes are found in the du(xleuiiiu for an inch or two beyond the pylorus. Here they l:)egin ; at hrst as low, scattered, and irregular folds; further down, they gradually become larger, more regular, and more numerous ; and l)y the time the middle of the-descendini^ stage is reached thev have attained a consideral)le development. In the lower part of the duodenum the folds are large, prominent, and closely set. On the inner aspect of the descending- portion, about its middle—namely, 3h or 4 inches (8'V to 10 cm.) beyond the pylorus —is seen a prominent papilla, on which the l)ile and pancreatic ducts open by a common orifice (Fig. 090). This is known as the bile papilla (papilla duodeni; caruncula major of Santorini). The liile ])apilla is jilaced beneath, and jirotected by, a ])roniinent, hood-like valvula connivens, which is situated iiumediatelv above it. From its lower margin a tirm ridge of the mucous mendirane (the ])lica lougitudinalis duodeni) descends toi- a. considerable distance, and acts as a frenum, which fixes the ])a])illa and directs its ape.x somewhat downwards (Fig. 690). Tlie jiajiilla is pi-ominent, and ni])])le or dome-shaped, and at its sunnnit is jdaced the small oritice, wliich will usually adnn't the point of a pencil ; the whole liears a close resemblance to the nozzle of a ]ierfunie-spray. Nearly an inch higher uj), and invarialily on the ventral side of the bile papilla (sometimes as nnich as a 5 to | inch distant), is seen a second and smaller ])ai)illa (the caruncula ndnor of Santorini), at the point of whicdi is placed the very small orifice of the accessory ])ancreatic duct. Tliis second paftilla seems to be constantly jjresent, although sometinu'S so small that it may easily escajie detection unless carefully sought for. Wlien well developed, it may haA'e a hood-like valvula connivens and a little frenidnm, like those of the bile pa]>illa. Structure of the Duodenum.—The peritoneal coat, which is incomplete, has already been described in detail, in connection with each division of the duodenum. The muscular coat is well developed, and is pierced by the bile and pancreatic ducts, but otherwise calls for no special description. The submucosa differs from that of the rest of the small intestine, in that it con- tains, especially in the upper h;df of the duodenum, the glands of Brunner (glandulfe duodenales). These are small acinotubular glands, closely resembling the pylo7-ic glands of the stomach, which lie in the subnnicous coat, and send tlieir ducts through the nuiscularis nuicoscB to open on the surface between Lieberkiihn's glands, or sometimes into these glands themselves (Fig. 684). They can be exposed by removing the peritoneal and muscular coats, and also some of the submucosa, when they appear as little round or flattened masses of a reddish gray colour, varying in size from Jjyth to j^^th of an inch in 090.—Thk Bn.E Pai'u.la in thk Interior ok the Duodenum.