829 THE INNOMINATE VEINS. anterior waU of the thorax, and the upper part of the anterior wall of the abdomen. Each innominate vein commences behind the sternal end of the clavicle of the corresponding side, and is formed by the union of the internal jugular and sub- clavian veins; the two innominate veins terminate by uniting together, behind the • lower border of the cartilage of the first rib on the right side, to form the superior vena cava. To reach this point the left vein has to pass from left to right behind the manubrium sterni, and it is therefore about three times as long as the right vein. The innominate veins do not possess valves. The right innominate vein is a Little more than one inch (3 cm.) in length. It descends almost vertically to the lower border of the first costal cartilage, and terroinates in tlie superior vena cava. Relations.—It is overlapped in front by the right lung and pleural sac, and is in relation with the sternal end of the clavicle and the steroo-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. It partly overlaps the innominate artery, which lies to its left side, and it is in front of the right vagus nerve and the posterior part of the iipper end of the right pleural sac. The phrenic nerve and the accompanying vessels I'un along its right side, and inter- vene between it and the right pleural sac. Tributaries.—In addition to the veins by the union of which it is formed, the right innominate vein receives the right vertebral and internal mammary veins, and sometimes the right inferior thyroid vein and the first right posterior intercostal vein. The right lymphatic duct also opens into it. The left innominate vein passes from left to right, with a slight obliquity downwards, behind the upper part of the manubrium sterni, to the lower border of the first right costal cartilage, where it terminates in the superior vena cava It is a nttle less than three inches long (6 to 7'5 cm.). Relations.—It is covered in front, in the greater part of its extent, by the left pleura, but at its right extremity it is slightly overlapped by the right pleura, and in the middle line the remains of the thymus gland intei'vene between it and the posterior surface of the sternum. It rests posteriorly upon the left subclavian artery, the left phrenic, and the left vagus nerves, the left superior cardiac branch of the sympathetic, the inferior cervical branch of the left vagus, the left common carotid artery, the trachea, and the innominate artery. Its lower border is in relation with the arch of the aorta, and on its upper border it receives the inferior thyroid vein of one or both sides. Tributaries. — It receives the vertebral, internal mammary, inferior thyroid, and superior intercostal veins of its own side, the first left posterior intercostal vein, and some pericardial, thymic, anterior bronchial, and anterior mediastinal veins. Sometimes the i-ight inferior thyroid vein joins it, but usually this vessel terminates in the right innominate vein or in the commencement of the superior vena cava. The thoracic duct opens into it just at the angle of junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. Internal mammary veins (w. mammarise interna;).—Each internal mammary artery is accompanied by venae comites; they commence by the union of the vense comites of the superior epigastric and musculo-phrenic arteries, between the sixth costal cartilage and the triangularis sterni, and at the iipper part of the thorax they fuse into a single vessel which enters the superior mediastinum and ends in the innominate vein of the same side. The tributaries of the internal mammary veins are—(a) The venae comites of the superior epigastric and musculo-phrenic arteries, which in their turn receive tributaries which correspond with the branches of the arteries they accompany, (h) Six anterior perforating veins which accompany the corresponding arteries, one lying in each of the upper six intercostal spaces, (c) Twelve anterior intercostal veins from the upper six intei'costal spaces, two veins lying in each space with the corresponding branches of the internal mammary artery, (d) Small and irregular pleural, muscular, mediastinal, and sternal veins. The internal mammary veins are provided with numerous valves which prevent the blood from flowing downwards. Superior epigastric veins (w. epigastricse superiores).—The venae comites of the superior epigastric artery receive tributaries from the substance of the rectus abdominis, the sheath of the nmscle, and the superjacent skin and fascia; they pass with the artery,