599 THE LUMBAE PLEXUS. ilio-inguinal. The lower branch of the first joins the upper branch of the second nerve, to produce the genito-crural nerve. The lower branch of the second nerve, the whole of the third, and that part of the fourth nerve engaged in the con- stitution of the plexus divide each into two unequal parts—smaller anterior and larger posterior imrts. The smaller anterior portions combine together to form the obturator nerve, which is thus formed by the second, third, and fourth lumbar Vena caval opening Oisophagcal opening Central tendon (middle part) Central tendon (right part) Diaphragm (costal fibres) j~j Internal arcuate ligament fyL External arcuate liganien End of last rib Last thoracic nerve Ant. layer of lumbar fascia Lumbar fascia Ilio-hypogastric Lumbar vessels and sympa- thetic communicating nerves Ilio-inguinal Quadratus luniborun External cutaneou.s nerve Psoas niagnuS| Iliacus lumbo-sacral cord Genito-crural nerve Anterior crural nerve Obturator nerve Great sciatic nerve Diaphragm (right cms) Middle arcuate ligament Aortic opening -\ j Central tendon ;\J^(\p.tt part) Diaphragm (left Last thoracic nerve jzrrrTi—'^'"^ °^ ^^^^ = TFF) Lumbar nerve I. rS-J-'—Ilio-hypogastric --^ Lumbar nerve II. Ilio-Inguinal Quadratus 1 ^ -t I fi lumboruin — - - 'Lumbar nerve III. Genito-crural Lumbar nerve IV. Lumbo-sacral cord External cutaneous nerve Ant. crural nerve Obturator nerve Great sciatic nerve \ Adductor longus (origin) Adductor brevis (origin) Gracilis (origin) Adductor niagnus (origin) Pectineus (out) I I Superficial branch of obturator nerve I Deep branch of obturator nerve Obturator externus Fig. 440.—View of the Posterior Abdominal Wall, to show the Muscles and the Nerves of THE Lumbo-Sacral Plexus. nerves. The root from the second nerve is not always present. The larger posterior portions of the same nerves combine together to form the anterior crural nerve. From the back of the posterior parts of the second and third nerves, the external cutaneous nerve arises. The nerves also provide, near their origins, irregular muscular branches, for the psoas aud quadratus lumborum muscles. The following is a list of the nerves which spring from the lumbar plexus (Figs. 439 and 440):—