OSTEOLOGY. 194 Fic. 137.—The Radius and Ulna as seen khom Bkhind. Olecranon Triceps SUBCUTANEOl-s SUKKAIK Neck Tuberosity Supiiiatin- ladii brevis Extensor carjii ulnaiis iNTEROSSEOfS BORDER Post, oblique LINE I'i'oiiatoi' radii teres below supports the carpus. It consists of a head, a neck, a tubercle, a shaft, and an expanded lower extremity. The shaft is narrow above, but increases in all its diameters below. Upper Extremity.—The head (capitulum) is disc- shaped and provided with a shallow concave surface (fovea capituli radii) superi- orly for articulation with the capitellum of the humerus. The circum- ference of the head (cir- cumferentia articularis) is smooth and is embraced by the orbicular ligament. On the inner side it is usually much broader, and dis- plays an articular surface, plane from above down- wards, which rolls within the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna in the move- ments of pronation and supination. The character of the outer half of the circumference differs from the inner in being nar-' rower, and rounded from' above downwards. The neck (collum radii) is the narrow part of the shaft which supports- the head, the overhang of the latter being greatest to- wards the outer and pos- terior side. Below the nebk, on the inner side, there is an outstanding oval prominence, the bi- cipital tuberosity (tuber- ositas radii). The posterior half of this is rough for the insertion of the biceps tendon, whilst the anterior half is smooth and covered by a bursa wliich intervenes between it and the tendon. The shaft (corpus radii), which has an outward curve and is narrow above and broad below, is wedge- shaped on section. The edge of the wedge corre- sponds to the sharp inner interosseous margin of the bone (crista interossea), whilst its base corresponds to the thick and rounded outer border around wliicli the anterior or flexor surface becomes confluent with the posterior or extensor surface. Heai Stvloii) Groove for ext. CARl'I ULNARIS Ext. COIlllllUll. iliK. and ind. Ext. lona liietacarp. poll. Ext. brevis poll. Ext. carpi rad. longior Ext. carpi rad. brevier Stvloiu proc.