THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM. 420 peripheral division, which becomes connected with a peripheral part, may pro- visionally be regarded as a dendrite. The central fibres from the ganglionic cells in the region of the cord form the dorsal or posterior roots of tlie spinal nerves. These roots have thus an origin outside the cord, and grow into its substance in the process of development in the same manner that the roots of a plant strike into the soil. 4. The cerebrospinal neurons are derived from the germinal cells in the wall of the early neural tube. Certain of these furnish efferent nerve-fibres, which issue from the cord in separate bundles termed the anterior or ventral roots of the spinal nerves. In the case of the cranial nerves, however, with the exception of the trigeminal and facial nerves, the efferent fibres are not thus separated from the afferent fibres at their attachment to the brain. 5. The brain and cord when studied by the naked eye are seen to be composed of white matter and gray matter. The white matter forms very nearly two-thirds of the entire cerebrospinal axis. It is composed of medullated nerve - fibres embedded in neuroglial tissue. The gray matter is composed of nerve-cells with their dendrites and axons. Some of the axons are in the form of naked axis cylinders, whilst others have a coating of medulla. Intimately intermixed with these parts is the neuroglia, which isolates them more or less completely from each other. SPINAL CORD. The spinal cord is that part of the cerebrospinal axis which occupies the upper two-thirds of the spinal canal of the vertebral column. It is an elongated cylin- drical structure, slightly flattened in front and behind, which extends from the margin of the foramen magnum to the level of the lower border of the body of the first lumbar vertebra or to the upper border of the body of the second lumbar vertebra. Its average length in the male is 45 cm. and in the female 43 cm. Cerebral hemisphere -"Mesencephalon Cerebellum of the cord Fig. 314.—Human Fostu.s in the third month of development, with the Brain and Spinal Cord exposed from behind. A considerable amount of variation within certain limits (viz. the mid-point of the body of the last dorsal vertebra and the upper border of the body of the third lumbar vertebra) is observed in different in- FourUi ventricle dividuals as to the precise level at which the spinal Medulla cord ends inferiorly, and in the female tliere would appear to be a tendency for the cord to reach a slightly Cervical swelling lower point ill the caiial than in the male. Further the relation presented by tlie spinal cord to the vertebral column differs in a marked degree in the foetus and infant at different periods of development. Up to the third month of intrauterine life the cord occupies the entire length of the spinal canal; it ex- tends downwards to the lowest limit of the canal. But from this time on, as growth proceeds, the vertebral column lengthens at a more rapid rate than the cord. The spinal cord, therefore, has the appear- ance of shrinking in an upward direction within its canal, and at birth its lower end is usually found to be opposite the body of the third lumbar vertebra. The attitude assumed by the individual affects to a small degree the position of the lower end of the cord. Thus, when the trunk is bent well forwards, it is noticed that the terminal part of the cord rises slightly within its bony canal. Lumbar swellin of the cord At the margin of the foramen magnum the spinal cord becomes continuous with the medulla oblongata of the brain, whilst below, it tapers rapidly to a point and forms a tapering extremity termed the conus meduUaris. From the end of the conus medullaris a slender glistening thread is prolonged downwards within the spinal canal, and finally anchors the spinal cord to the back