DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 783 follicle, whilst the deeper cells undergo proliferation. The size of the gland bears no proportion to that of the hairs, since they are very large in the minute hair follicles of the foetus and newly born child, and also in the follicles of the rudimen- tary hairs of the nose and certain parts of the face. Bundles of non-striped muscular fibre are associated with the hair follicles, and are named the mm. arrectores pilorum. Attached to the deep part of the hair follicle, and forming with it an acute angle, they pass outwards close to the sebaceous glands, to end in the papillary layer of the corium. Situated on the side of the hair towards which it slopes, they, on contraction, diminish the obliquity of the hair follicle and render the hair more erect, and, at the same time, com- press the sebaceous glands and expel their contents. The condition of "goose- skin " is caused by the contraction of these slender muscles. Thomson suggests that the condition of curly liair is produced hy the contraction of these small muscles. Straight hair is thick and rounded ; curly hair is flat and ribbon-like. When the erector muscle contracts, the thick rounded hair resists the tendency of tlie muscle to bend it, while the flat hair, not sufficiently strong to resist the strain of the muscle, becomes bent, and this is probably the explanation why the follicle assumes the curved form cliaracteristic of the scalp of a bushman. The sebaceous gland lies in the concavity of the l^end between the follicle and the muscle, and forms a mass of greater resistance, around which the follicle may lie curved by the contraction of the muscle. The cells at the root of tlie hair accommodate themselves to the curved follicle, and, becoming more horny as they advance to the surface, retain the form of the follicle in whicli tliey are moulded. The sudoriparous or sweat glands (glandulse sudoriferte) are relatively few in number on the back of the trunk, but are very plentiful on the palms and soles, where they open on the summits of the curved ridges. Each consists of an elongated tube, the deeper portion of which forms its secretory part and is coiled in the sub- cutaneous tissue or deep part of the corium in the form of an ovoid or spherical ball, termed the glomerulus or corpus glandulse sudoriferse (Fig. 536). The superficial part of the tube, or ductus sudoriferus, extends through the corium and epidermis, in which it is spirally coiled, if the epidermis be thick, and opens on the surface by a funnel-shaped orifice, the porus sudoriferus. The glomeruli, as a rule, vary in diameter from O'l to 0-5 mm., but in the axillee they are much larger and may measure 1-4 mm. Each is surrounded by a capillary network and by a capsule of connective tissue, inside which is a homogeneous basement membrane. The lumen of the tube is lined by a layer of nucleated, granular, and striated, columnar, or prismatic epithelium, between the deep extremities of which and the basement membrane is a layer of non-striped muscular fibres, the long axis of which is more or less parallel to the long axis of the tube. The excretory ducts are devoid of muscular fibres, and consist of a basement membrane lined by two or three layers of polyhedral cells, which are covered, next the lumen of the tube, by a thin cuticle. The glands of Moll (glandulse ciliares), opening at the margins of the eyelids, and the glandulse ceruminosse of the external auditory meatus, are modified sudoriparous glands; the former are, however, not coiled up to form glomeruli, while the cell protoplasm of the latter contains yellowish pigment, and their gland ducts, in the foetus, open into hair follicles. Development of the Skin and its Appendages. Skin.—The vascular and sensitive corium is developed from the mesoblast, the cells of which, immediately underlying the epiblast, have, by the second month of foetal life, become aggregated together and flattened parallel to the surface of the embryo. By the third month they are seen to form two layers, the superficial of which becomes the corium, and the deeper the subcutaneous tissue. The epidermis, nails, hairs, sweat and sebaceous glands are all of epiblastic origin. The epidermis at first consists of a single layer of cells, but by the end of the second month it is duplicated, and then exhibits a superficial layer of irregular and a deeper layer of more cubical cells. By the third month three strata are seen : (a) a deep layer, con- sisting of a single sti'atum of cubical cells—the future stratum germinativum; (b) a middle layer, comprising two or three strata of irregular cells—the future stratum mucosum; and (c) an outer layer, a double stratum of large cells. This outer layer