213 THE PELVIS. Architecture.—As a flat liouc the os innoiuinatutn consists of spougy tissue between two compact external layers. These latter vary nuieli in thickness, being exceptionally stout along the ilio-ijectineal line and the floor of the iliac fossa immediately above it. The gluteal aspect of the ilium is also formed by a layer of considerable thickness. The spongy tissue is loose and cellular in the thick part of tlie ilium and in the body of the ischium ; absent where the floor of the iliac fossa is formed by the coalescence of the thin dense confining layers ; fine grained and more compact in the tuberosity of the ischium, the iliac crest, and the floor of the acetabulum, in which latter situation it is striated by fibres which are directed radially to the surface of that hollow, these again l^eing crossed at right angles by others which are arranged circumferentially. This spongy tissue forms a more compact layer over the surface of the upper and Ijack jiortion of the acetabular articular area. The bottom of the floor of the acetabulum varies in thickness ; in most cases it is thin and in exceptional instances the bone is here deficient. The same condition lias been met with in the iliac fossa, where absorption of the thin bony plate has taken place. Variations.—Some of the anomalies met with in the haunch bone are due to ossification of the ligaments connected with it; in other cases they de^Jend on errors of development. Failure of union Ijetween the pubic and ischial rami has also been recorded. Cases have occurred where the obturator groove has been bridged across by bone, and one case is noted of absence of the cotyloid notch on the acetabular margin. In rare cases the os acetabuli (see Ossification) remains as a separate bone. Ossification commences in the ilium about the ninth week of intra-uterine life; about the fourth month a centre appears below the acetabulum for the ischium, the pubis being developed from a centre which appears in Ajjpears about later end of 2iiil in. of fcetal life Apijears about 1.5 years; fuses 22-25 yf Appears about 15 years ; fuses 22-25 years front of the acetabulum about the fifth or sixtli month. At birth the form of tlie ilium is well defined; tlie body and part of the tuberosity of the ischium are ossified, as well as the horizontal ramus and part of the body of the pubis. All three parts enter into the formation of the sides of the acetabulum, and by the third year have con- verged to form the bottom of that hollow, being separated from each other by a triradiate piece of cartilage, in which, about the twelfth year, independ- ent ossific centres make their appearance, which may or may not become fused with the adjacent bones. In the latter case they unite to form an independent ossicle, the os acetabuli, which subsequently fuses with and forms the acetabular part of the pubis. By the age of sixteen the ossification of the acetabulum is usually completed, whilst the rami of the ischium and pubis commonly unite about the tenth year. Secondary' centres, six in number, make their appearance about the age of puberty, and are found in the following situations : one for the anterior inferior iliac spine, one for the iliac crest and the anterior and posterior superior iliac spines, a scale-like epiphysis over the tuberosity of the ischium, a separate epiphysis for the spine of the ischium, (1) a point for the spine and another for the angle of the pubis. Fusion between these and the primary centres is usually complete between the twenty-second and twenty-fifth years. A|ipeais about 4th lii. of fcetal life Appears about 15 years ; fuses 22- % 25 years At Birth. Unite about 10 years About 12 or 13 years. Fig. 157.—Ossification of the Innominate Bone. The Pelvis. The pelvis is formed by the union of the innominate bones with each other in front, and with the sacrum behind. In man the dwarfed caudal vertebraj (coccygeal) are curved forwards and so encroach upon the limits of tlie pelvic cavity inferiorly. The pelvis is divided into two parts by the ilio-pectineal lines, which curve forwards from the upper part of the lateral masses of the sacrum behind, to the roots of the spines of the pube's in front. The part above is called