900 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. The branches given off by the innominate artery may be increased iu number, or the innomi- nate may only A-ary from tlie normal as regards length. As a consequence of such modifications in lengtli, the origins of the right common carotid and right subclavian arteries may be situated at a higher or lower level than usual, whilst, in the absence of the innominate artery, l)oth these Ijranches may arise directly from the aorta. Common Carotid Arteries.—When tlie right common carotid artery arises sejaarately from the arch of the aorta, it may be the first, or much more rarely the second branch. In the former case the fourth right aortic arch has been obliterated, and the right subclavian artery springs from the descending aorta ; in the latter case either the innominate stem has been absorbed into the arch of the aorta, or the ventral root of the fourth right aortic arch has fused with ])art of an elongated fourth left arch. Whether arising as the first or second branch, the origin may be to the left of the mesial plane, and the trunk may pass in front of the trachea, or behind the oesophagus, before it ascends in the neck. The left common carotid artery varies as regards its origin much more frequently tlian the right vessel; not uncommonly, and ajiparently because of t he fusion of the ventral roots of the fourth aortic arches, it arises from a stem common to it and to the right common carotid and right suljclavian arteries. Both coiumon carotids may vary as regards their termination. They may divide at a liigher or lower level than usual, tlie former more commonly than the latter ; whilst in a few excejitional cases the couimon carotid does not divide, but is continued directly into the internal carotid, and from tills the branches usiurlly given off by the external carotid are derived. This arrangement is probably due to obliteration of the ventral roots of the first and second aortic arches, the arches persisting and being divided into tlu' branches which generally arise from their ventral extremities. Usually the common carotids give oft' no branches, but not infrequently one or more of tlie Ijranches of the external carotids arise from them. The external carotid artery may be alisent, or it may, in rare cases, arise directly from the arch of the aorta. The number of its branches may be diminished either by fusion of their roots or Ijy transference to the internal or common carotid arteries. On the other hand, the number of its branches may ))e increased ; thus the sterno-mastoid artery, the hyoid branch usually given oft' by the superior thyroid artery, or the ascending jjalatine branch of the facial, may arise from it. Sometimes the branches may arise in the usual way, but may deviate from the course generally taken; more particularly is this the case M'ith the internal maxillary artery, which may pass either between the heads or entirely external or internal to both heads of the external pterygoid muscle. The internal carotid artery is rarely absent. Occasionally it springs from the arch of the aorta, and in its course tlirough the neck it may vary somewhat in length and in tortuosity. One or more of the branches usually derived from the external carotid artery may arise from it, and it sometimes gives oft" a large meningeal branch to the posterior fossa of the skull. Its jjosterior communicating branch may rejjlace the posterior cerebral artery ;_on the other hand, the upper jMirt of the internal carotid may be absent, and the posterior coiiimunicating artery may become the middle cerebral artery. The anterior cerebral branch of the internal carotid may be absent, or rather it may arise from the corresf)onding artery of the ojiposite side ; or there may he three anterior cerelsral arteries, the third arising from the anterior communicating artery wliicli connects the two anterior cerebrals together. The ophthalmic artery, as it traverses the orbit, may pass either over or under the ojitic nerve. It is occasionally replaced hy a branch of the middle meningeal arterj-. The vertebral artery may have a double origin—one from the subclavian, and one from the infiu'ior thyroid artery or from the aorta. The right vertebral may arise from the common carotid or from the arch of the aorta. Occasionally it springs from the descending aorta, an arrangement associated witli the j^ersistence of the dor.sal roots of the fourth and fifth right arches. The left vertebral artery not infrequently springs from the arch of the aorta, arising between the left common carotid and left subclavian ai-teries ; this is evidently due to the absorption of the stem of the seventh segmental artery into the aortic arch. Very exceptionally the left vertebral is a branch of an intercostal artery. In its course upwards either verteljral artery may enter the \'ertebrarterial foramen of any of the lower six cervical vertebra. The cases in which it does not enter one of the lowest of these are ajjparently associated with its formation in part from the precostal instead of from the j)ostcostal anastomosing channels. The artery may enter the spinal canal with the second in.stead of with the first cervical nerve, or, after leaving the foramen in the transverse process of the third vertebra, it may divide into two branches, one of which accomjianies the second and the other the first cervical nerve ; the two branches unite together again in the spinal canal to form a single trunk. Sometimes, though rarely, it gives oft' superior intercostal and inferior thyroid branches. The iqiper end of one of the A-ertebrals is sometimes very small, or it may be entirely wanting; in th(^ latter case the basilar artery is formed by the direct continuation of the opposite A'ertebral. The basilar artery may be double in j^art or the whole of its extent, or its cavity may be divided by a more or less com2)lete septum. It may terminate in one instead of two posterior cerebral arteries, the missing vessel being supplied by the enlargement of the posterior com- municating branch of the internal carotid.