886 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. Lateral sinus Internal jugular vein External jugular vein Subclavian vein Transverse anastomosis Cardinal vein Duct of Cuvier Heart ■Transverse anastomosis Vena reveliens of the left innominate veins, the superior vena cava, the azygos veins, the left superior intercostal vein, part of the inferior vena cava, the right common iliac vein, a small part of the left common iliac vein, and both right and left internal iliac veins. The primitive jugular vein of each side returns blood from the head and neck, and corresponding upper extremity, and it terminates below by fusing with the cardinal vein to form a common trunk, the duct of Cuviei', which oj^ens into the sinus venosus. Each cardinal vein returns blood from the body wall, the Wolffian body, and the lower extremity of its own side. Numerous transverse anastomoses are developed between the primitive jugular and cardinal veins of opposite sides, and of these four are specially important, one between the primitive jugular veins and three between the cardinal veins; the former becomes the left innominate vein ; of the latter, the upper two become the transverse parts of the upper and lower smaller azygos veins, and the third forms the left common iliac vein. As these transverse channels develop, further changes occur in the primitive jugular and cardinal trunks. At first the upper extremity of the primitive jugular vein is in direct continuity with the venous sinuses of the cranium through an aperture, the post-condyloid foramen, in front of the external ear; but this con- tinuity is destroyed, and the aperture in the skull closes as soon as a new vessel, which becomes the internal jugular vein, has grown upwards from a point on the inner side of the primitive jugular trunk and has established a communication with the lateral sinus through the jugular foramen. This vessel rises behind the sterno-clavicular joint, just opposite to, or slightly below, the entrance of the subclavian vein into the outer side of the primitive jugular vein. With the exception of its upper extremity, the whole of the primitive jugular vein remains on both sides in the adult. On the right side, above the transverse anastomosis between the two primitive jugular veins which becomes the left innominate vein, it forms the external jugular vein, and that portion of the right subclavian vein which inter- venes between the external jugular and internal jugular veins and also the right . innominate vein; below the anastomosis it forms the upper part of the superior vena cava, the lower part of the latter vessel from the entrance of the vena azygos major downwards representing the right duct of Cuvier, which, though it is placed transversely in the early stages, becomes more vertical as the heart descends in the thoracic cavity. On the left side above the transverse anastomosis it forms the external jugular vein, the innermost jjart of the subclavian vein, and a small part of the left innominate vein; the main part of the latter vessel being formed, as before stated, from the transverse anastomosis. The portion of the left primitive jugular vein which lies below the anastomosis is represented in the adult by the iipper part of the left superior intercostal vein. Vena adveliens Umbilical vein Splenic vein Superior mesenteric vein Vitelline vein rransverse anastomosis External iliac vein 605.—Development of the Venous System (Diagrauiniatic). Stage III.—The right umbilical vein has disappeared, aud the superior mesenteric and splenic veins have joined the fused vitelline veius.