773 VERTEBEAL AETERY. {(j) Cortical branches are given oft' as the middle cerebral artery pas.ses over the surface of the island of Ileil at the bottom of tbe Sylvian fissure, as follows :— {b^) The inferior external orbital runs forwards and outwards, and is distributed to the outer part of the orbital surface of the frontal lobe and to the inferior frontal con- volution. (6-) The ascending frontal branch turns round the upper margin of the Sylvian fissure, and is distributed to the ascending frontal convolution and to the posterior part of the middle frontal convolution, {¥) The ascending parietal branch emerges from the Sylvian fissure and passes up- wards along the posterior border of the ascending parietal convolution, supplying that convolution and the superior parietal lobule. (b^) The temporal branch passes out of the Sylvian fissure, and turns downwards to supply the superior and middle temporal convolutions. (Jp) The parieto-temporal branch continues backwards, in the direction of the main stem, and emei-ges from the posterior end of the Sylvian fissure ; it supplies the inferior parietal lobule, the external occipital convolutions, and the posterior part of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe. Vertebral Artery. The vertebral artery (a. vertebralis, Figs. 556 and 559) is the first braucli given off from the subclavian trunk; it arises from the upper and back part of the parent stem, opposite the interval betv^^een tlie anterior scalene and the longus colli muscles, and terminates at the lower border of the pons Varolii by uniting with its fellow of the opposite side to form the basilar artery. Course and Relations.—The vertebral artery is divisible into four parts. The first part runs upwards and backwards, between the scalenus anticus and the outer border of the longus colli, to the foramen in tlie transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra. It is surrounded by a plexus of sympathetic nerve fibres, covered anteriorly by the vertebral and internal jugular veins, and crossed in front by the inferior thyroid artery. On the left side the termiiial part of the thoracic duct also passes in front of it. The second part runs upwards through the foramina in the transverse processes of the upper six cervical vertebrse. As far as the second cervical vertebra its course is almost vertical; as it passes through the transverse process of the axis, however, it is directed obliquely upwards and outwards to the atlas. It is surrounded by a plexus of sympathetic nerve fibres, and also by a plexus of veins. The artery lies in front of the trunks of the cervical nerves, and internal to the intertransverse muscles. The third part emerges from the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, between the anterior primary division of the suboccipital nerve internally and the rectus capitis lateralis exter- nally, and runs almost horizontally backwards and inwards round the outer side and back of the superior articular process of the atlas. In this course it enters the suboccipital triangle, where it lies in the groove on the upper surface of the posterior arch of the atlas (sulcus arterife vertebralis). It is separated from the bone by the suboccipital nerve, and is overlapped superficially by the adjacent borders of the superior and inferior obhque muscles. Finally, this part of the artery passes beneath the obhque ligament of the atlas and enters the spinal canal. The fourth part pierces the spinal dura mater and runs upwards into the cranial cavity. It passes between the roots of the hypoglossal nerve above and the first dentation of the hgamentum denticulatum below,pierces the arachnoid,and,gradually inclining inwards in front of the medulla, reaches the lower border of the pons Varolii, where it unites with its fellow of the opposite side to form the basilar artery. Branches.—From the fii'st jmrt.—As a rule there are only a few small muscular twigs from this portion of the artery. From the second jmrt.—(1) Muscular branches which vary in number and size. They supply the deep muscles of the neck, and anastomose with the profunda cervicis, the ascending cervical, and the occipital arteries. (2) Spinal branches (rami spinales) pass from the inner side of the second part of the vertebral artery through the intervertebral foramina into the spinal canal, where they give off twigs which pass along the roots oi the spinal nerves to reinforce the anterior and