102 OSTEOLOGY. forwards, and enters into the formation of the narrow roof (pars nasalis) of the nasal fossfe. Anteriorly the nasal notch is limited by a rough U-shaped articular surface, the median part of which articulates with the nasal bones, whilst on either side the nasal processes of the superior maxilkt; are united with it. Behind this, amid the broken cells, the passages leading into the frontal sinuses are readily distinguished, and here the inner edges of the orbital plates articulate with the lachrymal bones. The orbital plate is thin and brittle. In front it is bounded by the superior orbital margin, just within which, midway between the internal angular process and the supraorbital notch there is a small shallow depression (fovea trochlearis), often displaying a spicule of bone arising from its edge (spina trochlearis), which affords attachment to the pulley of the superior oblique muscle of the eyeball. Externally the orbital plate is overhung by the orbital margin and the external angular process, and in the hollow so produced (fossa giandulie lachrymalis) the lachrymal gland is lodged. The extremity of the external angular process (pro- cessus zygoniaticus) articulates with the frontal process of the malar bone. Behind this the irregular edge of the orbital plate is united with the great wing of the sphenoid by a triangular area, which also extends on to the inferior aspect of the temporal surface of the frontal bone. The apex of the orbital plate, for the space of about half an inch, articulates with the lesser wing of the sphenoid. The cerebral surface of the bone forms a fossa in which lie the fore and under parts of the frontal lobes of the cerebrum, the convolutions of which impress their form on the inner aspect of the bone. Here, too, on either side of the middle line, may be seen depressions for the lodgment of Pacchionian bodies. Descending from the centre of the upper margin of the bone is a vertical groove, the frontal sulcus; narrowing below, this ends in a ridge—the frontal crest—which nearly readies the fore part of the ethmoidal notch, where it terminates in a small orifice, the foramen caecum, placed usually in the suture between the fore part of the ethmoid and the frontal. This foramen may, or may not, transmit a small vein from the nose to the commencement of the superior longitudinal sinus. This sinus, which is interposed between the layers of the falx cerebri, is at first attached to the frontal crest, but subsequently occupies the frontal sulcus. Deeply concave from side to side and from above downwards, the lateral aspects of the fossa are seen to be traversed by small grooves for the anterior branches of the middle meningeal arteries. Below, the orbital plates bulge into the floor of the fossa, so that the ethmoidal notch appears recessed between them. On either side of the notch faint grooves for the meningeal branches of the ethmoidal vessels may be seen. The circumference of the fossa is formed by the serrated edges of the bone which articulate with the parietals above, and on either side below with the great and lesser wings of the sphenoid. Connexions.—Tlie frontal articulates with t-\velve bones, viz. posteriorly with the parietals and sphenoid ; exteruallj' with the nialars; inferiorly and internally Avith the nasals, superior luaxilhe, lachrymals, and ethmoid. Architecture.—The frontal bone is composed, like the other bones of the cranial vault, of two layers of compact tissue, enclosing between them a layer of spongy cancellous texture—the diplo"?., In certain definite situations, owing to tlie absorption of the intermediate layer, the bone is hollow, forming the frontal air sinuses. The position and extent of these is to some extent indicated by the degree of ])rojection of the sujierciliary ridges, though this must not be taken as an aljsolutely reliable guide, for cases are recorded where the lidges were low and the sinuses lai'ge, and vice versa.. Of much surgical imj^ortance, these air-sjiaces only attain their full development after the age of jjuberty, lieing of larger size in the male than in the fenuile, a circumstance which accounts for the more vertical appearance of the forehead in woman as con- trasted with man. Usually two in niuuber, they are i)laced one on either side of tlie middle line, and communicate by means of the infundil)ulum with the nasal fossa of the same side. It is exceptional to find the sinuses of ojjposite sides in communication with eacli other, as they are generally separated by a complete partition which, liowever, is occasionally much defiected to one or other side. Logan Turner (" On the Uhuuiiiation of the Air Sinuses of tlie Skull, with some Observations upon the Surgical Anatomy of the Frontal Sinus," Edin. Med. Joiirn. May 1898) gives the average dimensions of these sinuses as follows:—Height, 31 mm., i.e. from the fronto- nasal aperture upwards ; l)readtli, 30 mm., i.e. from tlie septum horizontally outwards ; depth, 17 mm., from the anterior wall at the level of fronto-nasal suture backwards along the orbital roof Exceptionally large sinuses are sometimes met with extending backwards over the orljit so as to form a double roof to that sjjace. There is a specimen in the Oxford collection in which the