THE THYEOID BODY. 1155 in front of the second, third, and fourth rings of the trachea, and unites the bases or lower ends of the two lateral lobes. A third lobe is frequently found in connexion with the thyroid l:)ody. This is the pyramidal or middle lobe (Fig. 790). When an elongated slender process present it assumes the form of Tliyroid cartilage Innominate artery -Dissection of the Thyroid Body and of the Parts in imjiediate relation to it. which springs from the upper border of the isthmus on one or other side of the mesial plane (more usually on the left side) and extends up- wards for a. variable distance towards the hyoid bone upon the cricoid and thyroid car- tilages. A strand of fibrous tissue, or perhaps a narrow slip composed of muscular fibres (levator glandulte thyreoideai), connects it to the body of the hyoid bone. The thyroid body is firmly attached to the parts on which it lies, and there- fore follows the larynx in all its movements. Variations.—Small detached portions of the thyroid tissue placed in the neighbouriiood of the kiteral lobes or in the vicinity of the hyoid bone are not un- common. Such glandular inasse.s are termed accessory thyroid Fio. 789.- bodies. The istbmus is the part of the organ which is most suIj- ject to variation. Its size differs greatly in different individuals, and it not infrequently happens that it is absent. Blood-vessels.—Four large arteries, and occasionally a fifth smaller vessel, convey blood to tlie thyroid body. Two superior thyroid branches spring from the external carotid arteries. Each of these divides at the apex of the lateral lobe into three Ijranches for its supj^ly. Two inferior thyroid branches from the thyroid axis of the subclavian artery distribute their terminal Ijrailches to the basal portions and deep surfaces of the lateral lobes. The occasional artery is the thyroidea ima, a branch of the innominate, which ascends upon the trachea to reach the isthmus • of the thyroid body. The thyroid arteries anastomose freely with each other. The veins which drain the blood from the tliyroid body are still more numerous. They are three in number on each side—viz. the superior and middle thyroid veins, which join the internal jugular ; and the inferior thyroid, which descends in front of the trachea and joins its fellow of the opposite side to form a large common stem which opens into the left innominate vein. Numerous large veins ramify on the surface of the organ and lie in grooves in its substance. It is from this plexus that the inferior thyroid veins take origin. The nerves which go to the thyroid body accompany the vessels. They are derived from' the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. Structure of the Thyroid Body.—The thyroid body is enveloped by a closely applied thin capsule of coiniective tissue. From the deep surface of this numerous pro- . cesses penetrate into the substance of the organ, and divide it into lobes and lobules. From the septa which separate the lobules fine lamellfe proceed which form the boundaries of vast numbers of closed vesicles or alveoli of different sizes and shapes. Some of the vesicles are spherical or polyhedral, whilst others are oval or flattened and branching. All are lined by a laj'er of cubical or columnar epithelial cells, and most of them contain a viscid semi-fluid colloid material. The blood-vessels traverse the organ in the fibrous-tissue septa, whilst the capillary network is disposed on the outer surface of the various vesicles. Numerous lymphatic vessels arise external to the alveoli, and Baber has shown that they frequently contain colloid material similar to that in the interior of the vesicles. Development of the Thyroid Body.—The thyroid bodj' is formed from three