1042 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. seeu on each side, indicating the upper limit of the canal. It is said that these ridges can also be felt during life by the hnger introduced into the rectum (Cripps). Below, the anal canal ends at the anus, or anal orifice, by opening on the exterior. Its length is usually from 1 to 1| inches (2'5 to 3'7 cm.), being greater when the bowel is empty, and less when it is distended. Its antero-posterior diameter when closed varies between h and f inch (12 to 19 mm.) The direction of the anal canal, as already pointed out, is downwards and back- wards, often forming an angle of nearly 45° with the horizontal, although it is usually somewhat nearer to the vertical. Relations. — It is surrounded by both the external and internal sphincters, and above also by the borders of the levatores ani, these muscles forming a muscular cylinder around it (Fig. 701). On each side is situated the ischio- rectal fossa with its contained fat, which allows of the distension of the canal during the passage of faeces. Behind is placed a mass of mixed connective and muscular tissue, known as the ano-coccygeal body (Symington), which intervenes between it and the coccyx. Finally, in front, it lies close behind the bulb of the urethra and the base of the triangular ligament in the male, and a sound ia the urethra can be easily felt by the finger introduced into the anal canal, particularly in thin l)odies. In the female it is separated from the vagina l)y the wedge-shaped mass of fatty and muscular tissue known as the " perineal body." Structure of the Rectum and Anal Canal.—The wall of the rectum is made up of four coiits, viz. :—1. The outer coat, formed in part of peritoneum (already described), and, where the peritoneum is absent, of connective tissue which can be dissected off in several layers. In this connective tissue the haemorrhoidal vessels run until they pierce the wall of the tube. In it also, at the back and sides of the rectum, ai"e found embedded a number of rectal lymphatic glands. 2. The muscular coat, which, is nuich thicker than in any other portion of the intes- tine, is composed of two stout layers of unstriped muscle—an outer longitudinal and an inner circular—like tliat of the intestine generally. The longitudinal fibres, although present all round, are chiefly accumulated on the front and back of the tube (see p. 1038), where they form two broad bands; at tlie sides they are reduced to a thin layer, the deepest fibres of which are folded in and take part in the formation of the rectal valves. Where the rectum pierces the floor of the pelvis, the outer layer of longitudinal fibres is luiited to the deeper portion of the levator ani, partly by tendinous fibres and ])artly by an inter- cliange of muscular fibres, Ijetween the levatores and the miiscular coat of the rectum. This interchange of fibres, however, is denied by Peter Thompson and Browning. Below, the longi- tudinal filjres pass between tlie external and internal sjjhincter muscles, or tlu-ough the latter to join tlie skin around the anus. The folding of tlie rectum from side to side, described above, is brought about and maintained by the shortness of the fibres of this coat on the front and back of tlie bowel. In saggital sections of the jjelvis near the mesial jjlane there can generally be seen a distinct Ijand of red, longitudinally-arranged, nmscular fibres, Mdiich descends on each side from the front of the coccyx to blend with the longitudinal fibres on the back of the rectum. This band is the rectococcygeus muscle. It is conijjosed of striped fibres above, but becomes unstiiped below. Some unstriped nmscular fibres which are found descending in the subcutaneous tissue of the lower jiart of the anal canal, to join the skin around the anus, have been described by Ellis as the corrugator cutis ani. According to Eoux, they are some of the longitudinal fil)res of the rectum M'hich have passed tlirougli the internal sphincter to the submucous tissue, and then descended to the skin. The circular fibres form along the wdiole length of the tube a continuous layer, whicli is doubled inwards to assist in the formation of eacli rectal valve, and is thickened below to form the internal sphincter of the anus. The internal sphincter (spliincter ani internus), as just pointed out, is formed by a great, and rather sudden, increase of the circular muscular fibres, which begins at the upper end of the anal canal. It surrounds the canal for about an inch (2-5 to 3"0 cm.), and terminates \ or \ inch (6 or 7 mm.) above its lower aperture (Fig. 70-5). 3. The submucous coat is comjjosed of loose areolar tissue, which allows of a free movement of tlie mucous layer on the muscular coat, and which also admits, under certain abnormal conditions, of a prolapse of the mucous membrane through the anal orifice. The ha3morrhoidal plexus of veins is contained in this layer. 4. The mucous coat must be considered separately in the rectum and anal canal. That of the rectum is redder in colour than the mucous membrane of the colon, as a result