1096 UROGENITAL SYSTEM. of the symphysis pu})is (Fig. 738). Thus it is possible, when the organ is distended, to puncture, or open into the bladder, through the anterior abdominal wall above the symphysis pubis, without at the same time opening into the peritoneal cavity. In the same manner the line of reflexion of the peritoneum, from tlie side wall of the pelvis on to the lateral aspect of the Itladder, is also raised higher, and may come to correspond, in part, to the level of the vas deferens, or to tliat of the ol)literated hypogastric artery (Figs. 742 and 743). On the other hand, the level of the reflexion of the peritoneum from tire rectum towards the basal aspect of the 1)ladder does not appear to vary much witli the distension or contraction of the organ (compare Figs. 737 and 738), and thus the fossa lietween the l)ladder and rectum becomes relatively very deep wlien the bladder is full. The l)ladder in normal distension may contain as miich as one pint, but in most cases the Idadder is emptied when its contents reach from six to ten ounces. Undfer abnormal or patho- logical conditions the Itladder capacity may be much increased. Varying Relationships, according to the degree of Distension of the Bladder. —When the 1 (ladder is distended the oltliterated hypogastric artery may cross forwards against its side ; when it is empty tlie oliliterated vessel lies, at its nearest Deef) Fio.. 743.—View looking into the Pelvis from above and somewhat behind. The bladder has been artifiuially disteuded. point, often as much as one and a (piarter inclies above the lateral border of the organ (Figs. 736 and 742). The vas deferens, during a part of its course, is in contact with the side wall of the distended bladder, but when the organ is empty it lies above and parallel to the lateral border, only coming into relationship with the liasal surface of the bladder after it has crossed the ureter. The side wall of the distended liladder is closely related to the obturator vessels and nerves. Bladder in the Female. — In the female the bladder is related behind to the uterus and upper part of the vagina. The anterior surface of the uterus in its upper part is separated from the upper surface of the bladder by the shallow utero- vesical pouch of peritoneum, but the two organs are nevertheless normally in apposition. So close is this relationship that the upper surface of the bladder very often shows a slight concavity, due to contact with the convex anterior wall of the uterus. The lower part of the uterus and upper part of the vagina are not separated l)y peritoneum from the basal surface of the bladder, but are in actual apposition with it (Fig. 744). Thus, below the level of the utero-vesical pouch, the female bladder is related in much the same manner to the uterus and anterior wall of the vagina as the male bladder is related to the vesicuhie seminales and vasa deferentia. The apex of the bladder, where the urachus is attached, often lies on a lower level than in the male, so that the organ, even when distended, rises less