OSTEOLOGY. 128 is more or less convex and is directed towards the zygomatic and spheno-maxillary fossce. It is pierced in ' Nasal process Lachrymal Tuberosity downward direction by the apertures of the posterior dental canals (foramina alveolaria), two or more in number, wliich transmit tlie corre- sponding nerves and vessels to the molar teeth. Its lower part, slightly more promi- nent where it overhangs the root of the wisdom molar, is often called the tuberosity (tuber maxillare). The suj)ero- external or orbital sur- face (planum orbitale), smooth and plane, is triangular in shape and forms part of the floor of the orbit. Its an- terior edge corresponds to the infraorbital margin; its posterior border coincides with the anterior Ijoundary of the spheno-maxillary fissure. Its thin iinier edge, which may be regarded as the base of the triangle, is notched in front to form the lachrymal groove (sulcus lacri- malis), behind which it articulates with the lachrymal bone for a short distance, then for a greater length with the os planum of the ethmoid, and terminates posteriorly in a surface for articulation with the orbital process of the palate bone. Its ex- ternal angle corresponds to the outspring of the zygomatic process. Tra- versing its substance is the infraorbital canal, the anterioropening of which has l:>een already noticed on the facial aspect of the body. Behind, however, owing to de- ficiency of its roof, the canal forms a groove which lips the edge of the bone which consti- tutes the anterior boun- dary of the spheno- maxillary fissure. If this canal be laid open, the orifices of the middle and anterior dental canals will be seen, whicli ti'ans- mit the corresponding- vessels and nerves to the bicuspid and incisor teeth. The inner or nasal surface (facies nasalis) of the body is directed inwards towaixls the nasal fossa'. Below it is continent with the upper surface of the palatal process ; in front it is limited by the Nasal process Ridge for middle turbinated bone Miildle meatus Ridge for inferior turbinated bone Its Aiilrum Alveolar process Nasal crest Fio. 101.—RloHT Sui'KRioB M.vxiLi.A (Tniier Aspect).