237 THE OS CALCIS. spring the fibres of origin of the abductor minimi digiti muscle. Ou the fore-part of the under surface there is an elevated elongated tubercle, which terminates somewhat abruptly just behind the anterior border of this aspect of the bone, giving rise at times to a notch. From the former spring the fibres of the long plantar ligament, whilst the latter serves for the attachment of the deeper fibres of the short plantar ligament. The two heads of origin of the flexor accessorius muscle arise from the bone on either side of the long plantar ligament. The internal surface of the os calcis is crossed obliquely from above downwards and forwards by a broad groove of considerable depth; along this pass many of the structures which enter the sole of the foot from the back of the leg. The groove is overhung in front and above by a projecting bracket - like process, called the sustentaculum tali, or lesser process. The under surface of the susten- taculum is channelled by a groove, in which is lodged the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis muscle; whilst its inner ^ border, to which is attached a s part of the internal lateral g ligament of the ankle, is over- | lain by the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. To the anterior border of the susten- taculum is attached the inferior calcaneo - navicular ligament, and placed on its upper surface is the articular facet already alluded to (facies articularis media). Posteriorly the in- ternal surface of the bone is limited inferiorly by the pro- jection of the internal tubercle, s and above by the internal ? lipped edge of the tuberosity. The external surface, broad behind and narrower in front, » is of flattened form. Springing from it, just below the outer end ; of the sinus tarsi, is si the peroneal spine (processus trochlearis), often indistinctly external tubercle internalti bercle marked. To this the fibres of b the external annular ligament B. As seen from the inner Side, are attached ; whilst in grooves yiq. 179.—The Rkjht Os Calcis. above and below it pass the tendons of the peroneus brevis and longus muscles respectively. To the upper and back part of this surface are attached the fibres of the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle. The anterior extremity, sometimes called the greater process, is furnished with a saddle-shaped surface on its anterior aspect for articulation with the cuboid. This facet is concave from above downwards, and slightly convex from side to side; its edges are sharply defined, except internally, and serve for the attachment of ligaments. The posterior extremity, called the tuberosity (tuber calcanei) forms the projection of the heel. Of oval form and rounded surface, it rests upon the two tubercles inferiorly. Its cutaneous aspect is divisible into three areas. Of these the highest is smooth and crescentic, and is covered by a bursa; the intermediate is Facets for astragalus Ext khxal tukkrcle A A, As seen from the Outer Siile. Facets for astracalts Ant. Mid. Post.