THE OKGANS OF SENSE. 696 upper and lower pieces, which are fixed to the margins of the respective tarsal plates. The internal tarsal ligament is a strong band attached to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone directly in front of the lachrymal groove; it divides at the inner canthus into two slips, one for either tarsal plate. The eyelids are further strengthened by membranous expansions, termed the superior and inferior palpebral ligaments, which extend into them from the margin of the orbit. The superior ligament is continuous, along the upper margin of the orbit, with the pericranium and with the peiiosteiil lining of the orbit, and blends below with the tendon of the levator palpebrse superioris. The inferior ligament is prolonged from the under edge of the inferior tarsal plate to the lower margin of the orbit, where it is continuous with the periosteum of the face and orbital floor. Externally, the two palpebral ligaments fuse to form the external tarsal ligament, while internally they become thinned, and, separating from the internal tarsal ligament, are attached to the lachrymal bone behind the lachrymal sac. These two palpebral ligaments form a kind of septum or diaphragm, the septum orbitale, between tlie superficial and deep structures of the eyelids ; this septum is perforated by the vessels and nerves, which extend from the orbital cavity to the face or scalp. The skin covering the lids is thin and delicate, and is continuous, at their margins, with their conjunctival lining. It contains numerous small sweat glands and fine hairs, the latter being provided with sebaceous follicles. Branched pigment cells are present in the cutis, and pigment also exists in the deep layers of the epidermis. The subcutaneous tissue is loose and devoid of fat, and in it are found the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle—a small separate bundle of which, termed the muscle of Riolan, occupies the margin of the lids behind the eyelashes. The Meibomian glands, or glanduLe tarsales, are elongated sebaceous glands with numerous lateral offshoots ; they are embedded in the tarsal plates and filled with cubical epithelium. Eather more numerous in the upper than in the lower lid, they open by small ducts, about 1 mm. in len j,th, along the lid margins behind the eyelashes; the ducts are lined by stratified epithelium placed on a basement membrane. Between the eyelashes and the muscle of Riolan are two or three rows of modified sweat glands, termed the glands of Moll, the blocking of one of the ducts of which frequently gives rise to a stye. H. Miiller described a layer of non-striped muscle in each lid : in the upper extending from the tendon of the levator palpebrae superioris to the upper tarsal plate, and in the lower connecting the inferior tarsal plate with the inferior oblique muscle. The tendon of the levator palpebrse superioris divides into three parts—an anterior, passing between the bundles of the orbicularis to the deep surface of the skin; a middle, attached to the superior tarsal plate; and a posterior, to the fornix coujunctiviE : there is no corresponding muscle in the lower" lid. The eyelashes are curved, silky hairs, which project from the free margins of the lids; in the upper lid they are longer and more numerous than in the lower, and are curved upwards, while those of the lower lid are bent downwards. Conjunctiva.—This mucous membrane lines the back of the lids (tunica con- junctiva palpebrarum) and is continued on to the front of the eyeball (tunica conjunctiva bulbi). The line along which it is reflected on to the globe of the eye is termed the fornix conjunctivae. The palpebral portion adheres intimately to the tarsal plate and presents numerous papillte. It is covered by a layer of columnar epithelial cells, beneath the bases of which are small flattened cells. IS'ear the fornix a number of acino-tubular glands, much more plentiful in the upper than in the lower lid, open on to its free surface. The conjunctiva bulbi is thinner than that lining the lids, and is loosely attached to the sclera by submucous tissue. The plica semilunaris conjunctivcE has already been referred to (p. 695). On the cornea the conjunctiva is represented merely by the stratified epithelium, already described (p. 684). Vessels and Nerves.—The chief arteries of the eyelids are the superior and inferior palpe- bral branches of the ophthalmic, which pierce the septum orbitale above and below the internal tarsal ligament and run tortuously outwards in the corresponding lid. On reaching the region