1168 SUEFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. anteriorly to form tlie roof of the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube, while posteriorly it roofs over the mastoid antrum. Externally the tegmen is limited by the petro- squamous suture, which may remain unossitied for some years after birth, thus affording a cliannel along which pyogenic infection may spread from the middle ear to the meninges and brain. Infection may also spread along the small veins which convey blood from the tympanum to the superior petrosal and lateral sinuses. The floor of the tympanum is formed mainly by the bone forming the jugular fossa, which is occupied by the bulb of the internal jugular vein. When the lateral sinus is large and unusually far forward the bulb is likewise large, and the fossa, which is con- sequently deeper, may arch up into the floor of the tympanic cavity, from whicli it may be separated raei-ely by a thin and translucent plate of bone which occasionally shows an osseous deficiency. In cases where this condition existed the jugular bulb lias been wounded in the operation of paracentesis of the tympanic membrane. Anteriorly the tympanic cavity leads into the Eustachian tube, which brings it into conununication with tlie naso-pliarynx. In tiie cliild tlie Eustachian tube is shorter, Roof of mastoid antrum Posterior margin of jugular foramen Fig. 796.—Section through Petrous Portion of Temporal Bone of Adult. Showing the relation of the middle ear to the niiildle and posterior fossae of the skull. wider, and more horizontal than in tlic adult, hence inflammations are more liable to spread along it to the tympanum. Above the level of the membrana tympani is the tympanic attic or epitympanic space, which communicates posteriorly by means , of a triangular opening (lulitus ad antriim) witli the mastoid antrum ; the base of the triangle, directed upwards, is formed by the tegmen tympani; its apex, directed downwards, is formed by the meeting of the inner and outer walls. The opening will admit an instrument half a cm. in diameter. The tympanic attic contains from before backwards the head of the malleus, the body and short process of the incus, the latter projecting backwards into the aditus. When these structures are covered with inflamed mucous membrane or granulations, drainage from the niastoid antrum into the tympanum proper is interfered with. Tlie boundaries of the aditus, important surgically, are as follows: superioi'ly, the tegmen tympani; internally, an eminence of compact bone, containing tiie external semicircular canal, below and in front of which is a second smaller proinineiice, corresponding to that portion of the aqueduct of Fallopius which curves immediately above and behind the foramen ovale. The wall of the aqueduct is here thin and not infrequently deficient, in which case inflammation may readily spread from the tympanum to the facial nerve. The outer wall of the aditus is formed by the deepest part of the upper and outer wall of the osseous external auditory canal. The posterior ivall of the tympanum, below the aditus ad antrum, is formed by diploic bone which contains the descending portion of the aqueduct of Fallopius.