UEOGENITAL SYSTEM. 1088 The Duct of the Kidney. P;iliilla The duct of the kidney l)egius above in a thiu-walled funnel-shaped expansion placed partly within and partly outside tlie sinus of the kidney. This portion of the duct receives the name of pelvis (pelvis reualis). Towards the level of the lower end of the kidney the part of the pelvis outside the sinus duuinishes in calil)re, and forms a tul)e termed the ureter (Fig. 7o4). Pelvis of the Kidney.— AVithin the sinus of the kid- ney the pelvis lies for the most part behind the renal vessels, and is formed by the junction of two or three thin - walled tubes, each of which has a number of Inanches. These latter, called infundibula or calyces (calyces renal es), are short, and increase in diameter as they approach the sinus wall. Their wide, somewhat funnel- like ends enclose the renal papilla', the secretion from which they receive and conduct to the pelvis. The calyces are usually aliout twelve in number, one calyx sometimes surrounding two or even three papilhie. The portion of the pelvis that lies outside the kidney has in front of it, in addition to the renal vessels, on the right side the second part of the duodenum, and on the left side a part of the pancreas (Fig. 735). Ureter.—The ureter is the vessel which carries the urine from the pelvis of the kidney to the bladder. It is a pale-coloured thick-walled duct with a small lumen. While in situ it has a total leno-th of about ten inches, and lies throuohont its whole course behind the peritoneum in the sul)-peritoneal tissue. In its u])per part the ureter lies in the abdominal cavity, and in its lower part in the pelvic cavity (Figs. 726, 735, and 736). Kiihitty sinus Interlobar) vessi^I / Cortex liitermeiliate zone Fic. 734.—LoxGiTUDiNAi. Section of the Kidney, oi'ening THE Kidney Sinus. The pelvis of the ureter and some of its calyces have been lai' open as they lie within tlie sinus. The normal ureter, in tlit to fourteen inches. Haccid condition, luea.sure.'* after it.s removal I'roni tlie body eleven The abdominal portion of the ureter (pars alidominalis), about five or five and a half inches in length, is directed downw"ards and slightly inwards, and lies upon the psoas muscle. On both sides of the body the ureter is crossed very obliquely by the spermatic, or ovarian, vessels. At its commencement the right ureter often lies behind the descending part of the duodenum, close to the outer side of the inferior vena cava, and as it pas.ses downwards it is crossed, just before it enters the pelvic cavity, liy the root of the mesentery. The left ureter is crossed by the attachment f)f the mesentery of the pelvic colon. On lioth sides the geuito-crural nerve passes ol>liquely outwards and downwards behind the ureter (Figs. 726 and 735). Crossing the common iliac, or sometimes the external iliac artery, the ureter enters the pelvis. The pelvic portion of the ureter (])ars pelviiia) is al>out four or four and a half inches in length, and passes downwards on the side wall of the pelvis lieneatli the ])eritoneum, descriliing a curve which is convex backwards and outwards (Fig. 736). The most convex portion of this curve lies close to the deepest part of the great sciatic notch (Figs. 755 and 777). In its course within the pelvis the ureter lies in front of the internal iliac artery, and crosses the inner aspect of the obturator nerve and vessels and the obliterated hypogastric artery. Al)0ut tlie level of the ischial