961 SALIVAEY GLANDS. fossa. Tnferiorly it usually reaches a little distance below a line prolonged hori- zontally backwards from the angle of the jaw, ljut its limit in this direction is variable. Occasionally the parotid glaud passes down a considerable distance below the angle of the mandible, lying here superficial to the posterior part of the submaxillary gland, from which it is sejmrated Ijy a thickened band of the deep cervical fascia, passing from the angle of the jaw to the fascia of the sterno-mastoid. At other times it does not quite reach the angle. The facial process of the gland—often of considerable size—is a flat and some- what triangular portion which runs forwards from the upper part of the gland, covering the masseter muscle to a varying extent ; from its most anterior part the parotid duct emerges, and a separated portion of this process, often found lying immediately above the duct, is known as the socia parotidis (glandula parotis accessoria). Traversing the substance of the gland (Fig. 646) are found:—(1) the temporo- maxillary vein; (2) on a deeper plane, the branches of the facial nerve passing forwards; and (3) more deeply still, the external carotid artery which lies beneath the lower part of the gland, but is embedded in its deep surface above: just before it emerges, the artery divides into its two terminal branches in the gland substance. The parotid or Stenson's duct (ductus parotideusj leaves the anterior liorder of the gland at its most prominent part (Fig. 647). It first runs forwards across the masseter, usually accompanied by the socia parotidis which lies aljove it, and also by branches of the facial nerve ; whilst the transverse facial artery is commonly some distance above, though its relation is variable. Having crossed the masseter, it arches round the anterior border of this muscle and runs inwards through the fat of the cheek, practically at right angles to the first part of its course, to reach the buccinator, which it pierces. Then passing for some distance (5 to 10 mm.) between the buccinator and mucous membrane, it opens into the vestibule of the mouth by a very small orifice, on a variably-developed papUla, opposite the crown of the second upper molar. The course of the duct, which is fairly constant, can be marked on the side of the face by drawing a line from the lower edge of the auditory meatus to a point midway between the ala of the nose and the red of the lip; the middle tliird of this line corresponds fairly accurately on the surface, to the course pursued by the duct. * The gland varies in weight from half an ounce to an ounce or more. Several small lobes or processes are found in connexion with it—viz. one running Ijackwards between the sterno-mastoid and the digastric; a glenoid lobe of very small size, which lies in the posterior part of the glenoid cavity ; a pharyngeal process (Fig. 646), which runs forwards and inwards between the styloid process and the external carotid artery towards the jiharyux. A pterygoid extension running forwards between the two pteiygoid muscles, although descrilied, cannot properly be said to exist. Stenson's duct measures from 1\ to 2^ inches (38 to 62 mm.) in length, and | inch (3 to 4 mm.) in diameter. The calibre of the duct is very much greater than that of its orifice, wliich only admits a fine bristle, and for this reason the duct may, to some extent, be looked upon as a reservoir for the saliva, as well as a duct for its conveyance. In tlie child it ].iierces the " sucking pad " on its way to the moutli. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries wliich supply the gland arise from the external carotid, and from the Ijranches of this artery in relation to the gland. The veins join the temj3oro-maxillary and its tributaries. The lymphatics pass to both the superficial and the deep cervical glands ; tliere are also a few small parotid lymphatic glands, which lie on the surface of the upper and lower part of the parotid Ijeneath the capsule. Some are said to be embedded in the substance of the parotid itself The nerves are derived (a) from the auriculo-temporal, and {h) from the symjiathetic on the external carotid. The fibres of the sympathetic are mainly vaso-coustrictoi'. Tliose of tlie auriculo-temporal convey to the gland secretory fibres from the glosso-phaiyngeal. Submaxillary Gland.—The submaxillary gland is next in size to the parotid, aud resembles it in its lobulation and colour. It is placed partly in the sub- maxillary triangle and partly under cover of the posterior part of the mandiljle near its angle (Fig. 647). In size and shape it may be compared to a small walnut with three fiattened 61