SUEFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. 1214 iutertrocliaiiteric line. Tlie ilio-psoas cms.'^e;^ tlie iiuteiior and the inner ])art of the capsule ; between the two is a bursa, wliicli Irequently conuiiunieates with the joint tlirougli the thin part of the capsule internal to tlje ilio-fenioral band ; it is by way of this communication that a ])soas abscess occasionally gives rise to secondary tubercular disease of the hiji-joint. One of the commonest situations to meet \VitL an abscess in hip-joint disease is in the cellular tissue and fat under the tensor fascia; feiuoris ; or the jms may ])ass below and to the inner side of the neck of tlie femur, and thence along the coui'se of the intei'nal circumflex artery to the back of the thigh. To tap or explore the hip-joint, the jjuiicture should be made in the interval between tlic sartoiins and the tensor fasciie femoris, 2 to 3 in. below the anterior superior iliac sjjine ; if the instrument is then pushed upwards, inwards, and backwards ))eneath the tendon of the rectus, it will pass tlirough the cajjsule a little above tlie anterior intertrochanteric line. Regarded from the point of view of dislocation, the regions of the cotyloid notch and of the inferior part of the capsule are the weak jioints in the joint; it follows, therefore, that abduction favours dislocation by bringing the liead of the femur into relation with these two weak areas. THE KNEE. With the knee exteuded aud the quadriceps relaxed, the patella can be readily outlined and moved from side to side upon the femoral condyles. On contracting the quadriceps its tendon springs forwards and is felt as a tense Ijand above the patella ; while the patellar ligament, which has become tense and prominent, may be traced to the lower part of the tubercle of the tiliia. In front of the lower part of the patella and of the upper part of the patellar hgament is the pre-patellar bursa, into which effusion takes place in the condition known as housemaid's knee. Beneath and on either side of the patellar liga- ment is a well-circumscribed pad of fat, palpation of which gives rise to a ieehng closely resembling true fluctuation. In extension, only the lower pair of articular facets of the patella are in contact with the trochlear surface of the femur. In semiflexion the middle pair of facets rests upon the trochlea; in this position the inner margin of the internal condyle, the upper Ijorder of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, aud the lower part of the, patella are all distinctly visible, aud to- gether bound a triangular depres- sion, which overlies the line of the joint and contains the anterior part of the internal semilunar cartilage : it is in this triangle that tlie surgeon searches for a displaced or thickened internal semilunar cartilage, for a lo(jse body, and for " lipping" of the edge of the articular cartilage in chronic osteo-arthritis. A similar, but less well defined, triangle may be felt immediately external to the lower edge of the patella. When the quadriceps is thrown into sudden or violent contraction, as in preventing oneself from falling backwards, the patella may be transversely fractured at the Gnicili.s IliH'tus femoris Sartoriiis \ astus pxtenm.s \ astus iiitenius Qiiadrieeiis exten; tendon Upper border of patella Patella Uio-libial band Internal condyle Internal seniilnnar cartilage LiganientMin patell Pad of fat Internal tuberosity of tibia Head of fibula Tubercle of tibia Inner border of tibia Crest of tibia iiastrocnemius Soleus 818.—Anteiuou Asi'ect of Knee.