THE TENTH OE PNEUMOGASTKIC NEEVE. 649 to supply the mucous meml)raue covering the tonsil, the adjacent part of the soft palate, and the pillars of the fauces. Lingual branches supply the mucous meni- Ijrane of the dorsal third and lateral half of the tongue, extend- ing backwards to the glosso-epi- glottidean folds and the front of the epiglottis. The Tenth or Pneumogastric Nerve. The pneumogastric or vagus nerve (n. vagus) arises from the brain by numerous radicles at- tached to the front of the resti- form body of the medulla ol)- longata, in series with the glosso- pharyngeal nerve al)ove and the spinal accessory nerve below it (for deep connexions, see p. 478). Uniting to form a single trunk, the roots of the nerve pass out- wards to the jugular foramen, through which they emerge into the neck. In the jugular foramen the nerve occupies the same sheath of dura mater as the spinal accessory nerve, and is placed behind the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Two ganglia are present on the trunk in this situation. The higher and smaller is the ganglion of the root (g. jugulare) ; the lower and larger is the ganglion of the trunk of the nerve (g. nodosum). In the neck the pneumogastric nerve pursues a vertical course in front of the spinal column. It occupies the carotid sheath, lying between and behind the internal and common carotid arteries and the internal jugular vein. It enters the thorax behind the large veins : 071 the right side, after crossing over the subclavian artery ; on the left side, in the interval between Pi«. 467.—The Distribution of the Pneumogastric Nerve. the left common carotid and SuIj- Va.R, Va.L, Right and left vagi ; r, Ganglion of the root and connexions with Sy, Sympathetic, superior cervical gang- lion ; G.Ph, Glosso - pharyngeal ; Acc, Spinal accessory nerve ; ni, Meningeal branch : Aur, Auricular branch ; t. Ganglion of the trunk and connexions witli Hy, Hypo- glossal nerve ; 01, 02, Loop between the first two cervical nerves ; Sy, Sympathetic ; Acc, Spinal accessory nerve ; Ph, Pharyngeal branch ; Ph.Pl, Pharyngeal plexus ; S.L, Superior laryngeal nerve; I.L, Internal laryngeal branch; E.L, External laryngeal branch; I.C, Internal, and E.O, External carotid arteries ; Oal, Superior cervical cardiac branch ; Ca2, Inferior cervical cardiac branch ; R.L, Recurrent laryngeal nerve ; OaS, Oardiac branches from recurrent laryngeal nerves ; Ca4, Thoracic cardiac branch (right vagus) ; A.P.Pl, Anterior, and P.P.Pl, Posterior pulmonary plexuses ; Oes.Pl, Esophageal plexus ; Gast.R, and Gast.L, Gastric branches of vagus (right and left) ; Coe.Pl, Coeliac plexus ; Hep.PI, Hepatic plexus ; Spl.Pl, Splenic plexus ; Ren. PI, Renal plexus. claviaii arteries. In the thorax the nerves occupy the superior and posterior media-