HUMAN EMBEYO AT DIFFERENT STAGES. 65 half the embryo. The eye is recognisable externally. The nose begins to grow forwards, but it is still broad and flat, and the nostrils are widely apart. The nodular elements of the external ear fuse togethei*. The segments of the limbs are defined, but the digits do not project beyond the ends of the limb-buds. The genital tubercle, the rudiment of the external generative organs, is formed. The sixth week.—During the sixth week the increase in size is less rapid than in previous stages, but the embryo begins to assume a more distinctly human form. The head remains relatively large and it is bent at right angles to the body. The neck is better defined and appears as a constricted region between the head and trunk. The maxillary processes fuse with the lateral nasal processes, and the lips and eyelids begin to assume their characteristic form. The outer parts of all the visceral clefts except the hyo-mandibular disappear. The external ear acquires its adult form. The rotation of the limbs commences, and the fingers reach the extremity of the hand; the tail is beginning to disappear as an external projection. The seventh week.—The flexure of the head upon the body is reduced. The nose projects more than in the preceding stage, and the chin appears. The toes reach the margins of the feet, and the projecting portion of the tail is still further reduced in length. The eighth week.—The flexure of the head disappears. The forehead projects. The nose narrows and becomes more prominent, but the anterior nasal orifices are still directed forwards. The upper lip is completed by the fusion of the globular processes. The thumb is widely separated from the fingers, and the hand assumes a distinctly human appearance. The tail is reduced to a small nodule, and the umbilical cord is attached to the lower part of the abdominal wall. At the end of the second month the total length of the foetus, excluding the legs, is 28 mm. (1^ in.). The third month.—The head grows less rapidly and, though it is still large, it is rela- tively smaller in proportion to the whole body. The eyelids close, and their margins fuse to- gether. The neck increases in length. The various parts of the limbs assume their definite proportions, and nails appear on the fingers and toes. The proctodseum is formed and the external generative organs are differentiated, so that the sex can be distinguished on external examination. The skin is a rosy coloui', thin and delicate, but more consistent than in the preceding stages. By the end of the third month the total length of the foetus, excluding the legs, is 7 cm. (24 in.), including the legs, 9-10 cm. (3|-4 in.), and it weighs from 100-125 grammes (3|-4|- oz.). The fourth month.—In the fourth month the skin becomes firmer, and fine hairs are developed. The disproportion between the fore and hind limbs disappears. If the foetus is born at this period it may live for a few hours. Its total length from vertex to heels Fia. 53.—Human F(etos eight and a half is 16-20 cm. (6|-8 in.), from vertex t® coccyx weeks old. (After His.) 12-13 cm. (4|^-5-i- in.), and it weighs from 230- GE. Genital eminence; UC. Umbilical cord. 260 grammes (8|-9i oz.). The fifth month.—The skin becomes firmer, the hairs are more developed, and sebaceous matter appears on the surface of the body. The legs are longer than the arms, and the umbilicus is further from the pubis. At the end of the month the total length of the foetus, from vertex to heels, is 25-27 cm. (10-104 in.), from vertex to coccyx 20 cm. (8 in.), and its average weight is about half a kilogramme (1^0 lbs.). The sixth month.—The skin is wrinkled and of a dirty reddish colour. The hairs are stronger and darker. The deposit of sebaceous matter is greater, especially in the axillae and groins. The eyelashes and eyebrows appear. At the end of the month the 5