THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 644 to the mylohyoid and anterior belly of the digastric miiscles. (2) The mental branch of the inferior dental nerve is a trunk of considerable size arising from the o main nerve in the inferior dental canal. It emerges from the lower jaw through the mental foramen, and is distributed ))y many branches to the chin and lower lip. It communicates lieneath the facial muscles with the supra-mandilnilar Ijrauches of the facial nerve (Eig. 458, p. 637). (3) The incisor branch is the terminal part of the inferior dental nerve remaining after the origin of the mental ))ranch. It supplies the incisor and canine teeth. The otic ganglion (g. oticum) is situated beneath the inferior maxillary nerve just below the foramen ovale. Like the other ganglia descriljed above, it possesses three roots :—(1) A motor root, derived from the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle; (2) a sensory root, formed by the small superficial petrosal nerve from the tympanic plexus (through which communications are effected with the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and a branch from the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve); (3) a sympathetic root, from the plexus on the middle meningeal artery (Fig. 462). Eive Itranches arise from the ganglion—three communicating and two motor branches. The three communicating nerves are fine branches which join respectively the vidian nerve, the roots of the auriculo-temporal, and the chorda tympani nerve. The two motor nerves supply the tensor tympani and tensor palati muscles. Summary.—The ti-igeniinal, the largest and most complex of the cranial nerves, is (1) the chief sensory nerve for the face, the anterior half of the scalp, the orbit and eyeljall, the nose and nasal cavity, the lips, teeth, moutli, and two-thirds of the tongue ; (2) the motor fibres of the nerve supply the muscles of mastication, the mylohyoid and anterior belly of the digastric, possibly the levator palati and azygos uvulae (through Meckel's ganglion), and the tensor tympani and tensor palati muscles (through the otic ganglion); (3) through the ganglia placed on the three divisions of the nerve, not only are important organs, areas, and muscles inner^-ated, but communications are also effected with the sympathetic system, with the third nerve (lenticular ganglion), facial nerve (spheno-palatine and otic ganglia), and glosso-pharyngeal nerve (otic ganglion). In its distrilnition to the skin of the face the branches of the fifth nerve present two striking peculiarities :—(1) While the branches to the skin reach the surface at many points and in diverse ways, the three main divisions are severally, by their branches, responsible for the supply of three clearly demarcated cutaneous areas. (2) By numerous communications with the facial nerve, sensory fibres are given to the muscles of expression supplied by the facial nerve. The Sixth or Abducent Nerve. The aljducent nerve (n. abducens) issues from the brain at the lower l)order of the pons Varolii, just above the pyramid of the medulla oblongata (for deep origin, see p. 484). It is directed forwards, and pierces the dura mater of the posterior fossa of the base of the skull alongside the dorsum sellse (Fig. 457, p. 636). It then occupies the inner wall of the cavernous sinus, and" is placed on the outer side of the internal carotid artery. It passes through the sphenoidal fissure below the third and nasal nerves and between the two heads of the external rectus muscle (Fig. 455, p. 635). In the cavity of the orbit it supplies the external rectus muscle on its inner (ocular) surface. Communications.—In the wall of the cavernous sinus the sixth nerve receives two eomuuuiicating filaments :—(1) From the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, and (2) from the oplithalmic division of the trigeminal nerve. The Seventh or Facial Nerve. The facial nerve (n. facialis) emerges from the brain at the posterior ijorder of the pons Varolii, l)elow the trigeminal nerve aud internal to the auditory nerve (for deep origin, see p. 482). Between it and the latter nerve is the minute pars intermedia of Wrisberg (Fig. 452, p. 633). The nerve passes outwards through the internal auditory meatus, courses through the aqueduct of Fallopius i]i the petrous portion of the temporal lione, emerges in the base of-the skull liy the stylo-mastoid foramen, and passes forwards through the parotid gland to supply the muscles of the face. Ill the internal auditory meatus the nerve is placed upon the auditory nerve, the