1154 THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. the anterior surfacfe, as a rule conveys all the blood from the organ. On the right side it opens at once into the inierinr vena cava, and on the left side into the left renal vein. The nerves of the suprarenal bodies are very numerous. They come from the solar plexus, and constitute tlie suprarenal plexus. Structure of the Suprarenal Capsule.—The suprarenal capsule is surrounded by a thill eoiuiective-tissue sheath, from the deep surface of which tine processes are given off which enter the substance of the organ, and form within it a supporting stroma or framework. The gland-substance is composed of—(1) an external cortical portion, firm in con- sistence, of a yellowish hue, and forming the chief bulk of the organ; and (2) an internal medullary part, verj' soft and puljjy, and dai'k brown in colour. The cortical substance (substantia corticalis) consists of groups of cells occup^dng the interstices of the stroma. These cell-groups present different forms at different levels from the surface. Thus, subjacent to the connective-tissue sheath, there is a thin stratum, termed the rMna yloiaerulosa, in which the cell masses are more or less rounded; next comes the zona fasciculata, which constitutes the chief part of the cortex, and in which the cells are grouped in long columns which are arranged radially with reference to the surface; and lastly, there is the deepest layer, the zona reticuJaris, in wliicli the cells are disposed in a I'eticular manner amidst the stroma. The medullary part (substantia medullaris) is also pervaded by a fibrous stroma continuous with that of the cortex. This forms an irregular meshwork, the spaces of which are occupied by cells of very variable shaj^e and somewhat similar to epithelium in appearance. The arteries enter the cortex and break up into capillaries which are arranged around the cell-groups. In the medulla there are large thin-walled capillaries into which the whole blood of the organ passes. These capillaries are closely surrounded by the nied\illary cells. Proceeding from them are the radicles of the capsular vein. Development of the Suprarenal Capsule.—Several observers ascribe a totally dift'erent origin to the cortical and medullary parts of the suprarenal body. According to these authorities the medulla is derived as a column of cells which grows out from the sympathetic cord, and becomes in the process of development encapsulated within the cortex. That a ^wrtion of tlie sympathetic enters the suprarenal capsule would appear to be undoubted, but that it forms the medulla is questionable. Gottschaw and Janosik hold that the medullary cells are in reality derived by a metamorphosis of the cortical cells. The cortical part of the suprarenal body is formed from a mass of mesodermic cells wiiicli become grouped together in the immediate vicinity of the inferior vena cava soon after that vessel is formed. The cells thus accumulated together are said to be derived directly or indirectly from the epithelial cells which line the body cavity. Janosik and Mihalkovics believe that they come from the germ epithelium which covers the preaxial part of the genital ridge. According to Weldon, however, thej owe their origin to colunxns of cells which grow out from the Malpighiaii glomeruli of the preaxial part of the Wolffian body. THE THYKOID BODY. Tlie thyroid body (glandula thyreoidea) is a highly vascular, pliant structure wliicli clasps the upper part of the trachea and extends upwards for some distance upon each side of the larynx. In size it varies greatly in cUhereut individuals, and in the female and child it is alwaj's relatively larger than in the adult male. It consists of three well-marked subdivisions—viz. two lateral lobes, joined across the middle line by the isthmus. Each lateral lobe is conical in form. Its Ijase extenils downwards upon the side of the trachea as far as the fifth or sixth tracheal ring, whilst its apex rests upon the ala of the tliyroid cartilage. Its superficial surface is somewhat flattened, and is clothed by the pretracheal layer of cervical fascia, from which the organ derives a sheath, and also by the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and omohyoid muscles. It is also overlapped by the sterno-mastoid muscle. Its deej) surface is adapted to the parts upon which it lies—viz. to the side of the trachea, to the cricoid cartilage, and to the inferior coi'uu and adjoining part of the surface of the ala of the thyroid cartilage; whilst its posterior border extends liackwards so as to touch the 03S0- phagus and pharynx antl overlap the common carotid artery (Fig. G2G, p. 924). The isthmus of the thyroid body is a narrow l.iand of varying width which lies