81 THE FALSE OE FIXED VEETEBRiE. superior articular processes are stout, oval, curved plates of hone, fused in front with the pedicles and laminte, and having their concave articular surfaces vertical and in-turned. Externally, and on their posterior edge, the bone rises in the form of an elongated oval tubercle, the mammillary process (processus mammillaris); these are in correspondence with the superior tuliercles of the lower thoracic transverse pro- cesses. The inferior articular processes lie on either side of the root of the spinous process supported on the inferior margin of the laminae. Their articular surfaces, oval in outline, convex from side to side, and plane from above downwards, are out-turned. The inferior articular processes are much closer together than the superior; so that when the vertebra; are articulated the superior articular processes of the lower vertebra embrace the inferior articular processes of the higher vertebra. The fifth lumbar vertebra is characterised by the size of its body, which is the largest of all the vertebra;. Further, the under surface of the body is cut away at the expense of its posterior part: hence the thickness of the centrum in front much exceeds that of the vertical diameter behind. The transverse process is pyramidal in form, and stouter than those of the other lumbar vertebrae. It arises by a broad base from the side of the back of the body, as well as from the pedicle, and is directed outwards and a little backwards and upwards. Its upper surface is slightly grooved by the superior intervertebral notch. A deep notch separates it posteriorly from the superior articular processes, which are less in-turned than in the other members of the series, their articular surfaces being directed more backwards than inwards, and displaying less concavity. The inferior articular processes are further apart than is the case with the other members of the series, they lie in line with the superior. The spinous process is shorter and narrower than the other lumbar spines, particularly so in the female. Variations.—The mammillary and accessory processes are sometimes unduly developed. The neural arch of the fifth lumbar vertebra is occasionally interrupted on either side by a synchon- drosis which runs between the upper and lower articular pirocesses. In macerated specimens the two parts of the bone are thus separate and independent. The anterior includes the centrum, to- gether with the pedicles, transverse and superior articular processes; the j)osterior comprises the inferior articular processes, the laminae, and the spine.—Turner (Challenger Reports, \o\. xvi.). THE FALSE OR FIXED VERTEBRA.. The Sacrum. The sacrum (os sacriun), of roughly triangular shape, is formed by the fusion, normally, of five vertebra;. The anterior surface of the bone is slightly hollow from side to side and concave from above downwards, the curve being usually most pronounced opposite the third sacral segment. The central part corresponds to the bodies of the sacral vertebras, the lines of fusion of which are indicated by a series of four parallel ridges which cross the central part of the bone at gradually diminishing intervals from above downwards; externally, these ridges disappear on either side on the inner walls of the four anterior sacral foramina (.foramina sacralia anteriora). The size of these holes decreases from above downwards. The upper and under border of each foramen is formed by a stout bar of bone, of which there are five on each side, corresponding in number with the vertebrae present. Tliese unite externally so as to form the lateral mass (pars lateralis), and thus enclose the foramina to the outer side, though here the edge is not abrupt, but sloped so as to pass gradually into the canal. The large anterior divisions of the sacral nerves pass through these foramina and occupy the shallow grooves. The bone is broadest across the first sacral vertebra, tends to narrow opposite the second, and again usually increases in width opposite the third. When this condition is well marked, the edge has a notched appearance (sacral notch) which assists in the interlocking of the sacro-iliac joint. The surface of bone between and external to the first, second, third, and fourth foramina affords attachment to the fibres of origin of the pyriformis, whilst on the edge external to and below the fourth foramen the coccygeus is inserted. 6