603 ANTEEIOR CRURAL NERVE. sheath and femoral vessels, of branches, among which artery passes. The branches of the anterior crural nerve, which are (1) muscular, (2) articular, and (3) cutaneous, arise in the following way :— In the abdomen a muscular branch arises from the outer side of the nerve and enters the iliacus muscle. In Scarpa's triangle the terminal muscular, articular, and cutaneous branches of the nerve arise in the form of a large bundle of nerves. 1. The muscular branches supply the pectineus, sartorius, and quadriceps extensor. The nerve to the pectineus arises close to Poupart's ligament, and coursing obliquely downwards and inwards behind the femoral vessels enters the muscle at its outer border. It is not unfrequently double. It sometimes gives off a fine communicating branch to the superficial part of the obturator nerve. The nerves to the sartorius are in two sets: an outer short set of nerves associated with the outer part of the middle cutaneous nerve, which enter the upper part of the muscle; and an inner longer set which are associated with the inner part of the middle cutaneous nerve, and supply the middle of the muscle. The parts of the quadriceps extensor are supphed by several branches. The vastus externus and rectus femoris are supplied on their deep surface by separate nerves which are accompanied by branches of the external circumflex artery. The crureus muscle is supphed superficially by a nerve which passes through the muscle, and innervates also the subcrureus. It also receives fibres from one of the nerves to the vastus internus. The vastus internus muscle is supplied by two nerves: an upper trunk, which supplies the higher part of the muscle, and sends fibres to the crureus as well; and a lower trunk, which descends on the outer side of the femoral artery along with the internal saphenous nerve, and passing beneath the sartorius, over or under the aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal, enters the inner side of the vastus internus muscle. This nerve gives off a small branch which enters the medullary canal of the femur. 2. The articular branches supply the hip and knee joints. The articular branch to the hip joint arises from the nerve to the rectus femoris, and is accom- panied by branches from the external circumflex artery. The articular branches to the knee joint are four in number. Three of them arise from the nerves to the vastus externus, crureus, and vastus internus, which, after the muscular nerves are given off, are continued downwards to the knee joint along the front of the femur. A fourth articular branch arises (sometimes) from the internal saphenous nerve. 3. The cutaneous branches are the middle and internal cutaneous, and the internal saphenous nerves (Fig. 442). The middle cutaneous nerve arises in two parts. In Scarpa's triangle it breaks up into a large number the external circumflex Fio. 442. — Distribution of Cuta- neous Nerves on the Front of THK Lower Limb. Ou the one side the distribution of the several nerves is represented, the letters indicating their nomenclature. T.ll, Branches of eleventli thoracic nerve ; T.12, Brandies of twelfth thoracic nerve; I.H, Ilio-hypogastric ; I.I, Ilio-inguinal; E.C, External cuta- neous ; G.C, Genito-crural; M.C^,^, Middle cutaneous ; I.C^,-, Internal cutaneous ; Obt, Obturator ; S.Sc, Small sciatic ; Pat. Plex, Patellar plexus ; Pat, Patellar branch of internal saphenous ; E.P.S, Sural branches of peroneal nerve ; I.S, Internal saphenous ; M.C, Musculo- cutaneous ; E.S, External saphenous ; A.T, Anterior tibial. On the other side a schematic repre- sentation is given of the areas sup- plied by the above nerves, the letters indicating the spinal origin of the branches of distribution to each area. an external and an internal-