THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. 1152 Trabecular Framework (tmbeculie licnis).—From tlie deep surface of tlie tunica propria, numerous processes or traljecul.e are giveivoff, and these penetrate into tlie sub- stance of the spleen. Some are cord-like, others are in the form of flattened bands, and all are composed of fibrous tissue and invohuitary muscular fibres. AVithin the spleen the trabeculse branch and re-branch, and join with each other to form a supporting framework for the organ. The blood-vessels, as they enter at the hilus, carry in with them connec- tive-tissue sheaths, and these also take part in the formation of the trabecular framework. Spleen Pulp (pulpa lienis).—The interstices between the strands of the trabecular framework are tilled with spleen pulp. This is supported by a delicate reticulvmi formed by branching cells. The spaces of the network freely communicate, and are occupied by blood in which there are lai-ge numbers of leucocytes, and also large cells special to the spleen. These are termed splenic cells, and contain pigment, and not infrequently red blood corpuscles in their interior. Blood-vessels and Malpighian Corpuscles.—The splenic arteries, as they traverse the spleen, run in the trabecuhe. The small branches ultimately leave these and enter the spleen pulp. As they do so. they become ensheathed in a coating of adenoid tissue. At certain points in the course of the arteries this sheath suddenly increases in thickness, and forms small round or oval masses of adenoid tissue upon the vessel. In sections through the spleen these small nodular masses are visible to the naked eye as minute white spots. They are called Malpighian corpuscles (noduli lympliatici lienales). The artery rarely passes thi'ough the centre of such a corpuscle. As a rule the adenoid tissue is massed chiefly upon one side of the vessel, and a plentiful supply of blood is given to the nodule by means of a capillary network in connexion with the artery on which the Malpighian corpuscle is developed. The manner in which the minute terminal arteries end in the spleen pulp is peculiar. The wall becomes reduced to the endothelial lining, and the cells forming this gradually separate from each other and become continuous with those of the reticulum of the spleen pulp. The blood therefore flows directly into the meshes of the reticulum of the pulp. The minute radicles of the veins begin in the same way as the arteries end. The walls are gradually built up by the union of cells continuous with the open reticulum, and the blood flowing into the vessels so formed is led away towards the larger veins which occupy the trabeculiv. Development of the Spleen.—It is not until the second month of intrauterine development that the spleen begins to develop. It is formed from mesoderm, and appears in the dorsal mesogastrium in the neighbourhood of the imncreas. After a short time it becomes invaded by blood-vessels, but the Malpighian corpuscles are somewhat late in making their appearance. The spleen grows to the left in the direction of least resistance, protruding the left layer of the mesogastrium before it, and its form is determined by the pressure to which it is subjected by the neighbouring viscera and the abdominal wall. THE SUPKARENAL CAPSULES. Tlie suprarenal capsules (glandula3 suprareuales) are two small flattened organs which lie in tlie epigastric region, one on either side of the spine, and in intimate relation to the upper end of the corresponding kidney. The right suprarenal capsule is, as a rule, triangular in form, and rests by its base upon the anteri(jr and inner aspect of the upper enil of the right kidney. It is placed between the posterior surface of the right lobe of the liver and that portion of the diaphragm which covers the side of the spine. Tlie anterior surface, which looks outwards as well as forwards, presents two impressions—(1) The one is a narrow flattened striyj adjoining the anterior border of the capsule which is overlapped by the inferior vena cava; (2) the second impression comprises the remainder of the anterior surface, and is in contact with the liver. Only a small and variable part of the lower portion of the anterior surface of the right suprarenal capsule is covered by peritoneum. On tlie upper part of the impression for the vena cava, not far from the apex of the capsule, a short lissure termed the hilus may be observed. From this issues a sliort wide vein which immediately enters the vena cava inferior. The i)oderior swrfuce'oi the right suprarenal capsule is divided by a salient curved ridge into an u])per flat part, which is applied to the diaphragm, and a conca\e lower })art, which is occupied by fat and rests upon the kidney. \