UEOGENITAL SYSTEM. 1128 Epoophoron and Paroophoron.—These are two rudimentary structures found between the layers of the liroad ligament. Tlie epoophoron or parovarium (sometimes called the organ of Eosenmtiller) lies * in the mesosalpinx between the Fallopian tube and the ovary. In the adult it consists of a number of small rudimentary blind tubules lined by an epithelium. One of these tubules, called the duct of Gartner (ductus epoophori longitudinalis), lies close and nearly parallel to the Fallopian tube, and is joined l)y a number of the other tubules (ductuli transversi) which enter it at right angles from the neighbour- hood of the ovary. The duct of Gartner is a persistent portion of the Wolffian duct, and represents the canal of the epididymis in the male, while the tubules which join it are derived from the mesonephros and represent the vasa efferentia and coni vasculosi of the testis (and prolialdy also the ductuli aljerrantes of the canal of the epididymis). The epoophoron is best seen liy holding up the part of the broad ligament in which it lies to the light. One or more small, pedunculated, cystic structures, called hydatids of Morgagni (appendices vesiculosi), are often seen near the infundibulum of the Fallopian tube. These are usually supposed to represent portions of the upper end of the Wolffian duct. The paroophoron is a collection of rudimentary tubules also enclosed by the layers of the mesosalpinx, l)ut lying nearer the uterus than the epoophoron. These very rudimentary tubules represent the paradidymis or organ of Giraldes, in the male, and are derived from the part of the mesonephros which lies nearer the caudal end of the body of the embryo. The tubules are only easily made out in the child at birth. THE UTERITS. The uterus or womb is a hollow thick-walled muscular organ placed within the pelvis between the bladder in front and the rectum behind. The ova discharged from the ovary enter the uterus by one of the Fallopian tubes, and if fertilisation takes place, undergo their development within it. In form the uterus is somewhat pear-shaped, the wide upper end of the organ projecting freely upwards and for- wards into the pelvic cavity, while the lower more constricted part is connected with the vagina. The usual length of the adult uterus (when non-pregnant) is three inches, its greatest breadth is nearly two inches, and its maximum thickness is about one inch. In the description of the uterus we distinguish between'an upper larger portion, somewhat flattened from before backwards, composed of fundus and body, and a lower more cylindrical part called the cervix (Fig. 774). The part of the uterus that lies al)ove the level of a line joining the points of entrance of the Fallopian tubes is called the fundus (fundus uteri). The fundus is convex from before back- wards and from side to side, its anterior and posterior aspects being directly con- tinuous with the anterior and posterior surfaces of the body of the organ. The body of the uterus (corpus uteri), when seen from in front or from behind, has a somewhat triangular outline, and lies below the fundus, being directly continuous with it. The base of the triangle is directed upwards and formed by a Hue joining the lateral angles of the uterus, or points of entrance of the Fallopian tubes, while the sides of the triangle correspond to the lateral borders of the uterus, which extend on each side from the lateral angle to the cervix. The lateral hordes- (margo lateralis) separates on each side the anterior surface (facies vesicalis) from the posterior surface (facies intestinalis) of the body. Both these surfaces are rounded, but the posterior is much the more convex. The anterior surface rests against the upper aspect of the bladder, from which it is usually separated only by the layers of peritoneum forming the utero-vesical pouch. The posterior surface forms the chief part of the anterior wall of the deep recess situated between the uterus and rectum, and is \isually in contact with some part of the intestine. The neck, or cervix uteri, is cylindrical, and at its commencement is marked off from the body by a slight constriction. Its length is about one inch, and its lower end, tapering somewhat, enters the upper part of the vagina. The cervix is attached to