GENERAL EMBEYOLOGY. 46 and cutaneous lamellae in the thoracic and pelvic regions, and as the muscle-plates pass downwards in the somatopleure towarcls the ventral aspect of the body, these buds grow outwards into the limb-rudiments and develop into the muscles of the limbs. Presumably this is the more primitive arrangement, and that met with in man and other mammals is secondary, and it is stated that although no distinct buds from the muscle-plates pass finto the limbs of mammals nevertheless the limb-muscles are formed by cells, proliferated from the muscle-plates, which have migrated into the somatopleural mesoderm of the limbs. THE NUTRITION AND PROTECTION OF THE EMBRYO DURING ITS INTRAUTERINE EXISTENCE. The impregnated ovum during its passage down the Fallopian tube, and for a brief period also after it enters the uterus, lives either on the yolk granules (deuto- plasm) embedded in its own cytoplasm or upon material absorbed from the fluids by which it is surrounded. The human ovum is very small, and consequently it is almost from the first dependent for its nutrition upon soiirces of supply outside itself. The urgent necessity for adequate arrangements whereby this may be effected leads to that early establishment of an intimate vascular connexion between the embryo and the mother which is so characteristic a feature in the development of the human ovum. At the end of the second week, after fertilisa- tion of the ovum, the embryo is separated by a slight constriction from the rest of the blastodermic vesicle, and already a primitive heart and rudimentary blood- vessels are distinguishable. The development of the vascular system, and the establishment of the foetal circulation, however, cannot well be understood until the formation and structural features of the group of closely associated extra-embryonic organs or appendages have been considered. This group includes the yolk-sac, the chorion, the amnion, the allantois, and he placenta. THE FCETAL MEMBRANES AND APPENDAGES. The Yolk-Sac or Umbilical Vesicle.—That portion of the blastodermic cavity and its wall which is not included in the body of the embryo to form the primitive alimentary canal constitutes the umbilical vesicle or yolk-sac. Its walls, like its cavity, are continuous with the corresponding parts of the intestine, and their structural features are identical, there being an inner layer of entodermal cells and an outer layer which is formed by the splanchnic layer of the mesoderm. In the human embryo the yolk-sac is a small flask-like body, suspended from the ventral wall of the alimentary canal by a hollow stalk, the vitello-intestinal duct, which passes through the umbilical orifice. It lies in the extra-embryonic continuation of the body-cavity (coelom), and is filled with fluid. Possibly the contents of the yolk-sac are utilised in the nutrition of the embryo in its earliest stages, and the first rudiments of the blood-vascular system, viz. blood corpuscles and vessels, appear in its walls. In the human embryo, however, it is of little nutritional importance; it soon atrophies and almost entirely disappears, but leaves traces of its existence in the umbilical cord. The Amnion.—The amnion is a piotective sac which surrounds the embryo. It is formed, after the development of the coelom, from the amniotic area of the blastoderm, and its wall is continuous, at the margins of the umbilical orifice, with the body-wall of the embryo. Both walls consist of a layer of ectoderm and a layer of somatic mesoderm, lint whilst in the body-wall the ectoderm is external and the mesoderm internal, the relative positions of the layers are reversed in the amnion, the mesoderm being external and the ectoderm internal. Tlie cavity enclosed Ijetween the amnion and the embryo, the amniotic cavity, is filled with fluid, the amniotic fluid, in which the embryo floats. The amniotic cavity is quite shut off for some time from all the neighbouring spaces, but after