SUEFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. 1220 formed, by the seventh costal cartilages and the lower border of the body of the sternum is termed the infrasternal notch. Below the notch, and bounded on either side by the seventh, eighth, and ninth costal cartilages, is the infracostal angle, which varies considerably according to the shape of the chest; it is relatively wider in the child than in the adult. The lower border of the curve of the tenth costal cartilage is easily recognisable, and has been selected by Cunningham as the level of the plane of separation (infracostal plane) between the upper and middle abdo- minal zones. The anterior abdominal wall is limited below by the fold of the groin and the crest of the pubes. In a spare muscular subject the recti, the furrows corre- sponding to the linese transversse, and the supra-umbilical portion of the linea alba, can be readily made out. When the outline of the rectus is not visible the outer border may ])e indicated by a line drawn from the tip of the ninth costal cartilage to the mid-point of a line joining the umbilicus and the anterior superior iliac spine, and from thence to the pubic spine. In the angle between the outer border of the rectus and the ninth costal cartilage, on the right side, is a slight triangular depression which overlies the fundus of the gall-bladder. Between the lower part of the outer border of the rectus and the prominence above the anterior part of the iliac crest, caused by the lower muscular hbres of the external oblique, is another slight triangular depression, which corresponds to the lower and narrow part of the aponeurosis of the external obhque muscle. Close above, and almost parallel to, the inner half of Poupart's ligament is the inguinal canal, traversed by the spermatic cord (Yig. 297, p. 402); the latter can be felt to emerge at the external abdominal ring innnediately above the pubic spine. The external and internal abdominal rings have been fully described elsewhere; the former is triangular in shape, with its apex directed upwards and outwards, and its base immediately above the pubic crest. By invaginating the skin of the scrotum the Little finger may readily be passed through the ring into the canal. It is to be noted, that the neck of an inguinal hernia lies above the pubic spme, whereas the neck of a femoral hernia emerges below the inner end of Poupart's ligament, external to the pubic spine. Tlie internal abdominal ring, an opening in the fascia transversalis, lies in. above a point a httle internal to the middle of Poupart's ligament. The deep epigastric artery may be mapped out by drawing a line from a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis towards the umbilicus. The vessel, together with the inner third of Poupart's ligament and the lower part of the outer border of the rectus, bounds a triangle known as Hesselbach's triangle. As the deep epigastric artery passes upwards and inwards to disappear behind the conjoined tendon and the outer border of the rectus, it lies behind the spermatic cord immediately internal to, and below, the internal abdominal ring. The floor of Hesselbach's triangle is formed throughout by the fascia transversalis, superficial to which, over the inner half or so of the triangle, is the conjoined tendon. An oblique inguinal hernia leaves the abdomen at the internal abdoininal ring and traverses the whole length of the inguinal canal; its coverings are therefore the same as those of the spermatic cord, and the neck of the sac lies external to the deep epigastric artery, hence this variety of hernia is also termed an external inguinal heryiia. A direct inguinal hernia, on the other hand, instead of traversing the whole length of the inguinal canal, pushes before it that part of its posterior wall which is formed by the floor of Hesselbach's triangle. The neck of the sac, therefore, lies internal to the deep epigastric artery, and this variety of hernia may be termed an internal inguinal hernia. If a direct hernia makes its way through the inner part of Hesselbach's triangle, it derives a covering from the conjoined tendon as well as from the fascia transversalis; if through the outer part of the triangle, the outer edge of the con- joined tendon curves round the inner side of the neck of the sac. To relieve the constriction at the neck of the sac, in the case of an oblique inguinal hernia, the edge of the knife is directed upwards and outwards to avoid the deep epigastric artery, while in a direct hernia the artery is avoided by dividing the constriction in an upward"and. inward direction. In an oblique inguinal hernia the sac lies within the infundibuliform fascia (fascia propria of the hernia), whereas in a direct hernia