289 THE KNEE-JOINT. by faintly-marked, almost transverse grooves, which pass across the " articular surface immediately in front of the intercondylar notch. As a rule marginal indentations of the articular surface render the positions of these transverse grooves more distinct. The patellar portion (Fig. 223) is situated anteriorly, and is common to both condyles, although developed to a larger extent in association with the outer condyle, on which it ascends to a higher level than on the inner condyle. This surface is trochlear, and forms a vertical groove bordered by prominent lateral borders. The tibial portion of the articular surface of the femur is divided into two articular areas, in relation to the inferior aspects of the two condyles, by the wide non-articular intercondyloid notch. These two surfaces are for the most part parallel, but in front the internal tibial surface turns obliquely outwards as it passes into continuity with the patellar trochlea, while posteriorly, under certain circumstances, e.g. the squatting posture, the articular surface of the inner condyle may extend to the adjoining portion of the popliteal area of the bone. When the joint is in the position of extreme flexion, the patella is brought into direct contact with that part of the articular surface on the inner condyle which bounds the intercondyloid notch upon its inner and anterior aspects. This relation- ship is indicated by the presence of a distinct semilunar facet on the cartilage in that situation (Fig. 223). The articular surface of the femur ma^^^^therefore be regarded as presenting femoro-patellar and femoro-tibial areas. The patella presents on its posterior aspect a transversely-elongated oval articular facet and an inferior rough, triangular, non-articular area. The articular facet is divided into two principal lateral portions by a prominent rounded vertical ridge. Of these the outer is the wider. A less pronounced and nearly vertical ridge marks off an additional facet called the internal perpendicular facet, close to the inner margin of the articular surface. T\^o faint transverse ridges cut off narrow upper and lower facets from the general articular surface without encroach- ing on the narrow innermost vertical facet (Goodsir) (Fig. 223). The head of the tibia presents on its superior aspect two condylar articular surfaces, separated from each other by a non-articular antero-posterior area, which is wider in front and behind than in the middle, where it is elevated to form a bifid tibial spine. The external condylar facet is slightly concavo-convex from before backwards, and slightly concave transversely. This surface is almost circular, and extends to the free external border of the tibial head, where it is somewhat flattened. Posteriorly the articular surface is prolonged downwards on the tuberosity in relation to the position occupied by the tendon of the popliteus muscle. The internal condylar facet is Qval in outline, and distinctly concave both in its antero- posterior and transverse diameters. Ligaments.—Like all diarthroses, this joint is invested by an envelope or capsule (capsula articularis), which does not, however, entirely surround the joint- cavity, for it is absent as a fibrous membrane above the joint-cavity, subjacent to the tendon of the quadriceps extensor muscle. Its specially-named bands are not of themselves sufficient to form a complete investment, and a capsular membrane, which largely consists of augmentations from the fascia lata and the tendons of surrounding muscles, supplies the defective areas. Thus, anteriorly, on each side of the patella and the ligamentum patellae, expansions of the vasti tendons and fascia lata, constituting lateral patellar ligaments, are evident. On the outer side of the joint the external lateral ligament is hidden within a covering derived from the ilio-tibial band of 'the fascia lata. On the inner side expansions from the tendons of the sartorius and semi-membranosus muscles augment the capsule, which here becomes continuous with the internal lateral ligament. Posteriorly the capsule also receives augmentation from the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle, bi;t it is very thin subjacent to the origins of the gastrocnemius muscle, where it covers the hinder parts of the condyles. Not unfrequently the capsule presents an opening of communication between the interior of the joint-cavity and a bursa which lies under cover of the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle. The anterior ligament (lig. patellae, Fig. 223), also called the ligamentum 19