105 THE OCCIPITAL BONE. sphenoidalis), pointed and prominent, articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid. It is wedged into the angle formed by the union of that bone with the frontal, and is bevelled at the expense of its inner table anteriorly, whilst inferiorly it is thinned at the expense of its outer table. The posterior inferior angle (angulus mastoideus) is a truncated angle lying between the inferior and posterior borders. It is deeply serrated, and articulates with the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Not unfrequently there is a channel in this suture which transmits an emissary vein. Connexions.—The parietal bone articulates with its fellow, with the frontal, occipital, mastoid and squamous temporal, and with the sphenoid. Architecture.—Thin towards its lower part, where it enters into the formation of the temporal fossa, it is thickest along the superior border and in the neighbourhood of the posterior superior angle. Variations.—A number of cases have been recorded in which the parietal is divided into an upper and lower part hj an antero-posterior suture parallel to the sagittal suture. Coraini (Atti. d. XI. Congr. Med. Infernaz. Roma, 1894, vol. v.) records a case in which the j^arietal was in- completely divided into an anterior and posterior part by a vertical suture. Tlie j^arietal Depressions for Pacchionian bodies Groove for lateral sinus Fig. 81.—Eight Parietal Bone (Inner Surface). foramina vary greatly in size, and to some extent in position. They are sometimes absent on one or other side, or both. They correspond in position to the sagittal fontanelle. Sometimes the ossification of this fontanelle is incomplete and a small transverse fissure remains. The parietal foramen represents the patent external extremity of this fissure after its edges have coalesced. Ossification.—Ossification takes place in membrane by the deposition of earthy matter, the centre for which, most probably formed by the coalescence of two nuclei, appears over the parietal eminence about the sixth or seventh week of foetal life ; from this, it spreads in a radial manner towards the edges of the bone, where, however, the mem- branous condition still for some time persists constituting the fontanelles. These corre- spond in position to the angles of the bone. Ossification is also somewhat delayed in the region of the parietal foramina, constituting what is known as the sagittal fontanelle, a membranous interval which is not unfrequently apparent, even at birth. The Occipital Bone. The occipital bone (os occipitale), placed at the back and lower part of the cranium, consists of three parts, arranged around a large oval hole, called the