AUDITORY NERVE. 723 The lamina reticularis is a tiiiu cuticular structure, wiiich lies over Corti's organ aud extends from the he;ids of the outer rods as far as Hensen's cells, where it ends in a row of quadrilateral areas, which form its outer border. Oti looking at it from above, it is seen to consist of two or three rows of structures, named phalanges, which are elongated cuticular plates, resembling in shape the digital phalanges. The innermost row is formed by the phalangeal processes of the heads of the outer row of Corti's rods; the succeeding row, or rows, represent the expanded uj^per ends of Deiters" supporting cells. The number of rows of phalanges, therefore, varies with the number of rows of outer hair cells and the alternating cells of Deiters. The phalanges separate the free ends of the hair cells from each other, since these iire seen to occupy the somewhat circular apertures between their constricted middle portions. The membrana tectoria (Fig. 528) is an elastic membrane overlying the snlcus spiralis internus and the organ of Corti. Attached, by its inner end, to the limbus laminae spiralis, near the lower edge of Reissner's membrane, it reaches outwards as far as the outer row of hair cells. Its inner portion is thin and overlies the auditory teeth of Huschke. Its outer part is, at first, much thickened, but becomes attenuated near its external border, which, according to Retzius, is attached to the outer row of Deiters' cells. Its lower edge presents a firm, homogeneous border, and opposite the inner row of hair cells contains a clear, spirally-arranged band, named Hensen's stripe. Probably the membrana tectoria acts as a damper comparable to the otoconia in the utricle and saccide. Auditory Nerve (Fig. 529).—The auditory nerve divides into two main parts, the ramus vestibularis and the ramus cochlearis ; as the former traverses the internal Sinus siiperio]' Aiii])ulla of external canal Ampulla of superior canal Macula acustica ntric.uli Macula acustica saci'ul Ramus vestibularis Ncrvus facialis Ramus cDclili'aris "Superior semicircular canal External semicircular canal Posterior semicircular canal Ligamcntum spirjilc Membrana Itasilaris Branches of ramus cochlearis Branch of ramus coclilearis to ampulla of posterior canal Ami)ulla of posterior canal Sinus infeiior Ductus endolymjihaticus Ductus reuniens Fig. 529.—Membranous Labyrinth of a Five Months' Fcetus, viewed from its postero-mesial aspect (Retzius). auditory meatus it presents a gangliform swelling, the ganglion of Scarpa. The ramus vestibularis divides into three branches, which are distributed to the macula acustica utriculi and the ampullae of the superior and external semicircular canals. The ramus cochlearis gives off a branch to the macula acustica sacculi and another to the ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal. The remainder of the ramus cochlearis is distributed to the hair cells of Corti's organ, the branches for the basal and middle coils entering the foramina in the tractus spiralis foraminosus, those for the apical coil passing up through the canalis centralis of the modiolus. Extending upwards, in the bony canals of the modiolus, the nerve fibres radiate outwards between the lamellte of the lamina spiralis ossea. Contained in the spiral canal of the modiolus, near the attached margin of the lamina, is a ganglion which winds spirally round the modiolus, and is named the ganglion spirals or ganglion of 4G a