705 MIDDLE EAE OR TYMPANIC CAVITY. squamous suture. The floor (fundus tympani seu paries jugularis) is narrower than the roof and consists of a thin plate of bone, which separates the cavity from the fossa jugularis; anteriorly, it extends upwards and becomes continuous with the Autnim iiiastoideuin Recessns epi!.yiiipauicus Pi'uiiiiuentia canalis facialis Fenest Canal for tensor tympan Processus cochleariform Promontory with grooves for tympanic plexus' Osseous part of Eustachian tube'^ Bristle introduced into the foramen for Jacobson's nerve Pyramid Sinus tympani Mastoid air-cells Fossula rotunda Course of canalis facialis Fio. 515.—Section through Left Temporal Bone, showing inner wall of tympanic cavity, etc. posterior wall of the carotid canal. The inner orifice for Jacobson's nerve, or tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, is seen near the junction of the floor with the inner wall. The posterior wall (paries mastoidea) presents, from above downwards: (1) A rounded or triangular opening, which extends backwards from the recessus epitym- panicus and leads into the mastoid antrum (Fig. 515). The mastoid antrum will be again referred to (p. 708). (2) A depression, the fossa incudis (Fig. 516), for the lodgmentoftheshort Recessns epitympanlcus process of the incus; this fossa is situated in the postero-infer- ior part of the reces- sus epitympanicus. (3) A minute coni- cal bony projection, the pyramid or emi- nentia pyramidalis (Fig. 515), the sum- mit of which is per- forated by a round aperture for the pas- sage of the tendon of the stapedius muscle. This aper- ture is continued downwards and backwards as a canal in front of the Fal- Membrana flaccida (Shrapnell) Anterior and posterior tympano-nialleolar folds lendon of tensor tympani muscle (cut) Manubrium mallei Membrana tensa Sulcus tympanicus Fig. 516.—Left Membrana Tympani and Eecessus Epitympanicus, viewed from within. The head and neck of the malleus have been removed to show the membrana flaccida and the tympano-malleolar folds, x 3. lopian aqueduct, and opens, by a minute orifice, on the base of the skull in front of the stylo-mastoid foramen. It communicates with the Fallopian aqueduct by one or two small foramina, through which the vessels and nerve pass to reach the stapedius muscle. A minute spicule of bone often extends from the pyramid to the promontory on the inner wall of the tympanum. (4) A small aperture, the apertura tympanica canaliculi chordae (Fig. 516); this is situated immediately internal to the posterior edge of the membrana tympani, nearly on a level with the upper end of the manu- brium mallei. (5) A rounded eminence, the prominentia styloidea, is sometimes 45