THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. 646 iii. In the nech the facial nerve gives off three muscular branches: (1) and (2) small branches supply the stylo-hjoid and the ]30sterior belly of the digastric, the latter nerve sometimes communicating with the glosso-pharyngeal. (3) The posterior auricular nerve liends backwards and upwards over the anterior border of the mastoid process along with the posterior auricular artery. It divides into two branches—an auricular branch for the retrahens aurem and the intrinsic muscles of the pinna, and an occipital branch for the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis muscle. The posterior auricular nerve communicates with the great auricular, small occipital, and auricular branch of the pueumogasta'ic nerves in its course. iv. In the parotid gland the facial nerve spreads out in an irregular series of branches (pes anserinus), indefinitely divided into a temporo-iacial and a cervico-facial division. Communica- tions occur in tlie substance of the gland between the main trunks and the great auricular and auriculo- temporal nerves. The temporo-facial division gives off three series of suljordinate branches which radiate forwards and upwards from the parotid gland. 1. The temporal branches ;i,re of large size, and, sweeping out of the parotid gland over the zygomatic arch, are distributed to tlie orbicularis palpe- brarum, frontalis, corrugator supercilii, attrahens, and attolleus aurem. The temporaL branches communica,te in their'tbfirse with the aAiifeiil<>^£einp(»3l (of the superior maxillary), laclirymal, and supra-orbital branches of the tri- geminal nerve. 2 Fio. 464.—Distribution of F.\ci.\l Nerve outside THE Skull, and Communications with Trigeminal Nerve on the Face. Facial nerve.—P. A, Posterior auricular nerve ; S. H, Nerve to .stylohyoid ; Di, Nerve to diga.stric (posterior belly) ; T.F, Temporo-facial ilivisiou ; T, Temporal ; M, Malar ; I.O, Infra-orbital branches ; C.F, Cervico- faoinl division ; B, Buccal ; Sni, Supra-mandibular ; Ini, Infra-mandibular branches. Trigeminal nerve.—Ophth, Ophthalmic division ; S.O, Supra - orbital ; I.T, Infra - trochlear ; N, External nasal ; L, Lachrymal branches. Sup.Max, Superior maxillary division; T, Temporal; M, Malar; I.O, Infra-orbital branches. Inf.Max, Inferior maxillary division ; A.T, Auriculo-temporal ; B, Buccal ; M, Mental branches ; S.C, Superficial cervical nerve. The malar branches are small, and sometimes are inseparable from the temporal or infra-orbital nerves. Ex- tending forwards across the malar Ijone, they supply the orbicularis palpebrarum and zygomatic muscles, and communicate with the malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve. 3. The infra-orbital branches are of considerable size. Passing forwards over the masseter muscle in company with Stenson's duct, they supply the orbicularis palpebrarum, the zygomatici, Ituccinator, and the muscles of the nose and upper lip. The infra-orbital plexus is formed by the union of these nerves with the infra- orbital Ijranch of the superior maxillary nerve below the lower eyelid. Smaller communications occur with the infra-trochlear and nasal nerves on the side of the nose. The cervico-facial division of the facial nerve also supplies three series of secondary branches. 1. The buccal branch (or Ijranches) extends forwards to the angle of the mouth to supply the muscles converging to the mouth, including the buccinator. It communicates with the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve in front of the anterior border of the masseter muscle. 2. The supra-mandibular branch passes along the lower jaw to the interval