510 THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM. to admit a crow-quill, and through these passages the epithelial lining of the three ventricles becomes continuous. From the foramen of Monro a distinct groove on the lateral wall of the ventricle leads backwards towards the mouth of the Sylvian aqueduct. It is termed the sulcus of Monro, and is of importance, inasmuch as it represents in the adult brain the furrow which divides the lateral wall of the embryonic brain-tube into an alar and a basal lamina. The outline of the third ventricle, when viewed from the side in a mesial section through the brain, or as it is exhibited in a plaster cast of the ventricular system of the brain, is seen to be very irregular. It presents several diverticula or recesses. Thus, in the fore-part of the floor there is a deep, funnel-shaped j^it or recess, leading down through the tuber cinereum into the infundibulum of the pituitary bodj'. Another recess, the recessus ojdicus, leads forwards inunediately in front of "this, above the optic chiasma. Posteriorly two diverticula are present. One, the recessus 2^ii^^ci^li-s, passes backwards above the posterior commissure and the mouth of the Sylvian aqueduct for a short distance into the stalk of the pineal body. The second is placed above this and is carried backwards for a greater distance. It is a diverticidum of the epithelial roof, and, therefore, is difficult to demonstrate. It is termed the recessus sujmijnnealis. Cerebkal Connexions of the Optic Tract. One nerve, the optic nerve or the nerve of sight, is connected with this section of the brain. At the optic chiasma the optic nerves of the two sides are joined together and a partial decussation of fibres takes place. The fibres which arise in the mesial half of each retina cross the mesial plane and join the optic tract of the opposite side. The optic tract proceeds backwards round the crus cerebri, and in the neighbourhood of the corpora geniculata divides into two roots, viz. a lateral and a mesial (p. 491). Mesial Root of the Optic Tract—The Commissure of Gudden.—The mesial root of the optic tract disappears under cover of the corpus geniculatum internum and a large proportion of its fibres arise in this nuclear body. As to the origin of the other fibres, we possess at present no precise information. The mesial root, although it is composed of fibres which run in the optic tract, has absolutely nothing to do with the optic nerve. These filjres, when traced forwards, cross the mesial plane in the posterior angle of the optic chiasma and are carried backwards in the opposite optic tract, to form on that side its mesial root. The fibres, there- fore, are commissural, and constitute a bond of union, called the commissure of Gudden, between the internal geniculate bodies. Lateral Root of the Optic Tract.—The lateral or true visual root of the optic tract is composed of fibres which come—(1) from the lateral half of the retina of its own side; and (2) from the mesial half of the retina of the opposite side, and which have crossed the mesial plane in the optic chiasma. But in addition to the afferent retinal fibres there are a certain number of efferent fibres in the optic tract, fibres which take their origin in the brain and end in the retina. These are distinguished from the afferent retinal fibres by their exceeding fineness. The fibres of the lateral root of the optic tract end in the superior quadrigeminal body, in the external geniculate body, and in the pulvinar of the optic thalamus. The fibres to the superior quadrigeminal body reach it through the superior brachium (p. 493), and for the most part spread out on its surface in the stratum zonale before they sink into its suljstance, to end in terminal arborisations around its cells. The corpus geniculatum externum receives the largest contribution of fibres from the lateral root of the optic tract. These partly sink into its interior and partly spread out over its surface. The former enter into the construction of the curved lamellai of white matter which traverse this nuclear mass, and to a large extent end in the gray matter which intervenes between these lamellae The deep fibres which are not exhausted in this way proceed onwards through the external geniculate body and enter the pulvinar. Of the superficial fibres wliich spread over the surface of the external geniculate body some dip into its substance and end there, l^ut the majority are carried over it and enter the stratum zonale of the pulvinar. The fibres of the lateral root of the optic tract, which end in the pulvinar, therefore reach their destination by passing either over or through the external geniculate body.