370 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. portion of the muscle is separate, and forms the biventer cervicis, consisting of two fleshy bellies with an intervening tendon placed vertically in contact with the ligamentum nuchae. The insertion of the muscle is crossed by the occipital artery. The complexus is covered mainly by the splenius and trachelo-mastoid muscles. It conceals the semispinalis colli and the muscles of the suboccipital triangle, along with the accompanying vessels and nerves. Third Group. These muscles are only incompletely separate from one another. The semi- spinalis dorsi and colli form a superficial stratum, the multifidus spinas being more deeply placed. The more superficial muscle has the longer fibres; the fibres of the multifidus spinte pass over fewer vertebrte. Both muscles extend obliquely upwards from transverse to spinous processes. The semispinalis muscle extends from the loin to the axis. Its fibres are artificially separated into an inferior part, the semispinalis dorsi, and a superior part, the semispinalis colli. The semispinalis dorsi arises from the transverse processes of the lower six thoracic vertebrae. It is inserted into the spinous processes of the last two cervical and first four thoracic vertebrae. The semispinalis colli or cervicis arises from the transverse processes of the upper six thoracic vertebne and the articular processes of the lower four cervical vertebrte. It is inserted into the spines of the cervical vertebrae from the second to Insertion of sterno- MASTOII. Splenius capitis- Trachelo-mastoid 'g(ht^ Complexus thrown ■ outwards ^l^*^ Least occipital nerve Splenius CAPiiit TRACHELO-MASTOID' Trapezius Complexus Great occipital nerve Obliquus superior Rectus capitis posticus major Rectus capitis posticus minor Vertebral artery Suboccipital nerve Posterior arch of atlas Obliquus inferior Posterior primary division of second cervical nerve Posterior primary division of third cervical nerve Deep cervical ai'tery Posterior primary ilivision of fourth cervical nerve Fig. 273.—The Suboccipit.^l Teiangle. the fifth. The semispinalis muscle occupies the vertebral furrow, and is concealed by the erector spinae and complexus ; it covers the multifidus spinie muscle. It is on the same plane as the muscles of the suboccipital triangle. The multifidus spinae differs from the previous muscle in extending from the sacrum to tlie axis, and in the shortness of its fasciculi, which pass over fewer vertebrae to reach their insertion. It arises from the sacrum, from the sacro-iliac