MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. 381 Muscles of Mastication. The muscles of mastication comprise the masseter, temporal, external and internal pterygoids, and buccinator (described above). The masseter arises (1) superficially from the lower border of the zygoma in its anterior two-thirds, and (2) more deeply from the deep or inner surface of the Epicranial aponenrosis Temporal fascia Temporal fascia (deep layer) Masseter (deep fibres) Parotid gland Orbicularis \ palpebrarum Zygomaticus major Masseter (superficial fibres) Stenson's duct Buccinator - Depressor anguli oris Facial artery Fig. 280.—Muscles of Mastication (superficial view), zygoma in its whole length. The superficial fibres are directed downwards and backwards towards the angle of the jaw; the deeper fibres are directed vertically downwards. The muscle is inserted into the outer surface of the ramus of the lower jaw and coronoid process. The deepest fibres blend with the fibres of the subjacent temporal muscle.' The masseter muscle occupies the posterior part of the cheek. It is covered by the parotid gland, and is crossed by Stenson's duct and the branches of the facial nerve, and it conceals the lower jaw and a part of the temporal muscle. The temporal muscle is a fan-shaped muscle arising from the whole area of the temporal fossa, as well as from the temporal fascia which covers it. Its converging fibres pass beneath the zygomatic arch. In the pterygoid region the muscle is inserted into the deep surface and apex of the coronoid process, and into the anterior border of the ramus of the lower jaw. The muscle is concealed by the temporal fascia, zygoma, the masseter muscle, and the coronoid process. It crosses over the external pterygoid muscle and the internal maxillary artery. The external pterygoid muscle arises by two heads, upper and lower. The upper head is attached to the under surface of the great wing of the sphenoid ;i the lower head takes origin from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. The muscle is directed outwards and backwards, to be inserted into (1) the depression in front of the neck of the lower jaw, and (2) the inter-articular fibro-cartilage and capsule of the temporo-maxillary articulation. The muscle is placed deeply in the pterygoid region ; being covered by the temporal muscle and coronoid process, it partially conceals the internal pterygoid muscle and the trunk and branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. The internal