THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1052 out, is a divei'ticuhim of the great sac which lies behind the stomach and adjacent organs, and which communicates with the great sac by a constricted passage, the foramen of Winslow. If the great sac be compared, as already suggested, to a bag, the anterior layer of whicli clothes the anterior and lateral walls of the abdomen, and the posterior layer the viscera lying on the posterior wall, the small sac would correspond to a pocket lying liehind the upper part of the great sac, and opening into its cavity by a narrow mouth, on the right side, just below the liver. From this opening the pocket passes to the left behind the lesser omentum, as far as the spleen, up behind the Spigelian lobe of the liver, and down behind the stomach, and into the great omentum. As in the case of the great sac, it wiU of course he. imderstood that the two walls of the small sac and the l)Oundaries of the foramen of Winslow are normally in contact. We shall first consider this opening, and then trace the layers of the small sac. Foramen of Winslow (Eig. 709, A).—This, the constricted passage which leads from the great into the small sac of the peritoneum, is found just below and behind the prirtal fissure of the liver by running the finger along the under surface of the gall- l)ladder towards its neck, when, with little difticulty, it passes behind the right margin of the lesser omentum and into the foramen. It is bounded in front by the free right border of the lesser omentum, passing iip from the first part of the duodenum to the portal fissure, and containing between its two layers the portal vein, hepatic artery, and bile duct. Behind, lies the inferior vena cava, covered, of course, by peritoneum. Above, is placed the caudate lobe of the liver. And below, lie the first part of the duodenum, and the hepatic artery, the latter running forwards and to the light l)eneath the foramen, before turning up into the lesser omentum. It should l)e remembered that, normally, the various boundaries of the foramen lie in contact, and that its cavity can only be said to exist as such when its walls are drawn apart. If we follow the small sac, in through the foramen, it will be found that it expands immediately beyond this narrow opening (Fig. 707), its upper portion lying Ijehind the lesser omentum, and running up behind the Spigelian lobe of the liver as far as its upper end; and its lower portion passing down l)ehind the stomach and on into the great omentum, where it lies in front of the transverse colon, and extends practically to the lower end of the omentum—although this latter point cannot often be demonstrated in the adult. As the small sac is composed, like the great, of two distinct layers, an anterior and a posterior, it will l)e necessary to follow each of these separately. Above, the anterior layer of the small sac clotlies the Spigelian lobe; it then passes down (from the posterior margin of the portal fissure, and the fissure of the ductus venosus) to the lesser curvature of the stomach as the posterior layer of the lesser omentum. Continued on from this, it clothes the inferior (or visceral) surface of the stomach as far as the great curvature, with the exception of the small " uncovered area " below and to the left of the cardia (Fig. 674, B), but it does not actually come in contact with the oesophagus itself, the back and right side of which are un- covered. On the left, it is reflected from the ];)ack of the stomach to the spleen as the deeper layer of the gastro-splenic omentum. From the great curvature of the stomach it is continued down, forming the posterior layer (of the anterior fold) of the great omentum; and at the lower part of the omentum it meets and becomes continuous with the posterior layer of the small sac. The posterior layer of the small sac, in passing through the foramen of Winslow, clothes the front of the vena cava (Fig. 709, A); beyond this, it covers the coeliac axis, and passes up to line the slight depression on the posterior abdominal wall (diaphragm), against which the Spigelian lobe rests. Then, passing over to the left, it covers the upper surface of the pancreas, the top of the left kidney and suprarenal capsule, and the inner part of the gastric surface of the spleen (Fig. 710). From the anterior l»order of the pancreas it is prolonged forwards and downwards—as the anterior or upper layer of the transverse mesocolon—to the transverse colon (Fig. 707). It next clothes the upper aspect of this gut, and is then continued down as the anterior layer of the posterior fold of the great omentum, almost to its lower border, where it becomes continuous with the anterior layer of the small sac, already described.