Fio. 123.—Right Cr.AVicLE as seen from Below. 179 XHE CLAVICLE. The sternal end (extremitas sternalis) is enlarged/and rests upon the meniscus of fibro-cartilage which is interposed between it and the clavicular facet on the upper and external angle of the manubrium sterni, as well as a small part of the inner end of the cartilage of the first rib. Its articidar surface, usually broader from above downwards than from side to side, displays an antero-posterior convexity, whilst it tends to be slightly concave in a vertical direction. The edge around the articular area which serves for the attachment of the capsule of the sterno- clavicular articulation is sharp and well defined, except below where it is rounded. The shaft is so curved that its anterior outline is convex in its inner two-thirds, whilst concave in the outer third of its length. Eounded or prismatic in form towards its sternal extremity, it becomes compressed and flattened towards its outer end. The superior surface of the shaft, which is smooth and subcutaneous throughout its whole length, is directed upwards and forwards; the inferior surface is inclined downwards and backwards. The anterior border, which separates the upper from the under surface in front, is rough and tubercular towards its inner end for the attachment of the clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major, whilst externally, where it becomes continuous with the anterior margin of the acromial end, it is better defined, and bears the imprint of the origin of the fibres of the deltoid muscle ; here, not uncommonly, a projecting spur of bone, called the deltoid tubercle, may be seen. The posterior harder is broad internally, where it is lipped superiorly to furnish an attachment for the clavicular fibres of the sterno- mastoid muscle ; behind and below this the sterno - hyoid and sterno - thyroid muscles are attached to the bone. Externally, the posterior border becomes more rounded, and is confluent with the posterior edge of the acromial end at a point where there is a marked outgrowth of bone from its under surface, the conoid tubercle (tuberositas coracoidea). Into the outer third of this border are inserted the upper and anterior fibres of the trapezius muscle. The inferior surface of the shaft close to the sternal end is marked by an irregular elongated impression (tuberositas costalis), often deeply pitted for the attachment of the rhomboid ligament, which unites it to the cartilage of the first rib. External to this the shaft is channelled by a groove which terminates close to the conoid tubercle; into this groove the subclavius muscle is inserted. The acromial end of the bone, is flattened and compressed from above down- wards, and expanded from before backwards; its anterior edge is sharp and well defined, and gives attachment to the deltoid muscle, which also spreads, over part of its upper surface. Its posterior margin is rougher and more tubercular, and provides a surface for the insertion of the trapezius. The area between these two muscular attachments is smooth and subcutaneous. The outer edge of this forward-turned part of the bone is provided with an oval facet (facies articularis acromialis) for articulation with the acromion process of the scapula; the margins around this articular area serve for the attachment of the capsule of the joint. The inferior surface of the acromial end of the bone is traversed obliquely from behind forwards and outwards by a rough ridge or line called the trapezoid or oblique ridge. The posterior extremity of this ridge, as it abuts On the posterior border of the bone, forms a prominent process, the conoid tubercle (tuberositas coracoidea); to each of these, respectively, are attached the trapezoid and conoid portions of the coraco-clavicular ligaments ACROMIAI, FACET Sternal FAC^ET