278 THE AETICULATIONS OE JOINTS. radial end of the anterior radio-carpal ligament. By these different bands the palmar aspect of the joint is completely closed. The dorsal ligaments are more feeble than the palmar. They form a thin, loosely- arranged stratum, in which the only noteworthy bands are one which joins the scaphoid to os magnum, and another which joins cuneiform to unciform. TJie external lateral ligament (lig. collaterale carpi radiale, Fig. 217) extends between contiguous rough areas on the radial aspects of the scaphoid and trapezium. By its margins it is continuous both with the palmar and dorsal ligaments. . The internal lateral ligament (lig. collaterale carpi ulnare, Fig. 217) is arranged like the former in regard to its margins, and by its ends it is attached to the con- tiguous rough ulnar surfaces of the cuneiform and unciform bones. Both of these lateral ligaments are directly continuous with the corresponding lateral ligaments of the radio-carpal joint. An interosseous ligament (Fig. 217) is occasionally found witliin the capsule, extending across the joint cavity between the os magnum and the scaphoid. The pisi-cuneiform articulation is an arthrodial diarthrosis. The mutual articular surfaces of the two bones are flattened and circular, and only permit of a small amount of gliding movement. The joint is provided with a thin but complete capsule of fibrous tissue, which is specially strengthened inferiorly by two strong bands, viz. pisi-unciform (lig. piso- hamatum) and pisi-metacarpal (lig. pisometacarpeum. Fig. 216). Both of these bands extend from the lower and inner aspect of the pisiform to adjoining parts of the hook of the unciform and base of the fifth metacarpal bone respectively. To a great extent these ligamentous bands may be regarded as extensions of the in- sertion of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle which is attached to the upper part of the pisiform bone. Looked at as ligaments, however, they are specially strong to prevent the displacement of the pisiform bone during contrac- tion of the muscle inserted into it. The synovial membranes (Fig. 217) of the carpal joints are two in number. Of these, one is restricted to the pisicuneiform articula- tion, and is correspondingly simple, although occasionally the joint cavity may com- municate with that of the radio-carpal joint. The other synovial mem- brane is associated with the transverse carpal joint which extends transversely be- tween the two rows of carpal bones, with prolongations into the vertical intervals between the adjoining bones of each row, i.e. the inter- carpal articulations. It is, therefore,an elaboratecavity, which may be still further extended, by the absence of interosseous ligaments, so as to reach the radio-carpal and carpo-metacarpal series of joints. The first condition is rare, but the second is not uncommon, and results from the absence of the inter- osseous ligament between trapezium and trapezoid, or of that between trapezoid and OS magnum. Recessns ■sa - i sacciformis iJPW/ of inferior radio-uliiar joint Triangular bro- cartilage Trapezoid' Trapeziu Fig. 217.—Coronal Section through the radio-carpal, carpal, carpo- metacarpal, and intermetacarpal joints, to show joint cavities and interosseous ligaments (diagrammatic).