THE METACARPUS. 203 ill the second month after birth. Accor vol. xxii., 1886, p. 285), ossification takes Os magnum Unciform . Cuneiform . Semihinar . Trapezium . Scaphoid Trapezoid . Pisiform The same observer failed to note the of the unciform, and records the occurrer ling to Debierre (Jour, de I'Anat. et de la Physiol. place approximately as follows :— 11 to 12 months. 12 to 14 months. 3 years. 5 to 6 years. 6 years. 6 years. 6 to 7 years. 10 to 12 years. appearance of a separate centre for the apophysis ice of two centres for the pisiform. The Metacarpus. The metacarpal bones form the skeleton of the palm, articulating proximally with the carpus, whilst by their distal extremities or heads they support the bones of the fingers. Five in number, one for each digit, they lie side by side and slightly divergent from each other, being separated by intervals, termed interosseous spaces. Distinguished numerically from without inwards, they all display certain common characters ; each possesses a body or shaft, a base or carpal extremity, and a head or phalangeal end. The shafts, which are slightly curved towards the palmar aspect, are narrowest towards their middle. Their dorsal surface is marked by two divergent lines which pass forward from the back of the base to tubercles on either side of the head. The surface included between the two lines is smooth and of elongated triangular form. On either side of these lines two broad shallow gi'ooves wind spirally forward on to the palmar surface, where they are separated in front by a sharp ridge which is continuous with a somewhat triangular surface which corre- sponds to the palmar aspect of the base. The grooved surfaces on either side of the shaft furnish origins for the interossei muscles. Close to the palmar crest is the opening of the nutrient canal, which is directed towards the carpal extremity, except in the case of the first metacarpal bone. The head (capitulum) is provided with a surface for articulation with the proximal phalanx. This area curves farther over its palmar than its dorsal aspect. Convex from Ijefore backwards and from side to side, it is wider anteriorly than posteriorly; notched on its palmar aspect, its edges form two prominent tubercles, which are sometimes grooved for the small sesamoid bones which may occasionally be found on the anterior surface of the joint. On either side of the head of the bone there is a deep pit, behind which is a pro- minent tubercle; to these are attached the lateral ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints. ^ The bases (basis), all more or less wedge-shaped in form, | articulate with the carpus; they differ in size and shape | according to their articulation. ^ Of the five metacarpal bones, the first, viz. that of the thumb, is the shortest and stoutest, the second is the longest, whilst the third, fourth, and fifth display a gradual reduction in length. The four inner bones articulate by their bases with each Ymn'v Right other, and are united at their distal extremities by ligaments. metacarpal Bone. They are so arranged as to conform to the hollow of the palm, l^eing concave from side to side anteriorly, and convex posteriorly. The first meta- carpal differs from the others in being free at its distal extremity, whilst its proximal end possesses only a carpal articular facet. The first metacarpal bone is the shortest and stoutest of the series. Its shaft