764 THE VASCULAK SYSTEM. arises from the inner surface of the lower part of the external carotid, and terminates in the wall of the pharynx and in the soft palate. Course.—Commencing in the carotid triangle, usually as the first or second branch of the external carotid, it ascends on the wall of the pharynx to the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Relations.—Internally it is in relation with the constrictor muscles of the pharynx. Behind it are the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, the sympathetic cord, and the rectiis capitis anticus major. Externally it is in relation with the internal carotid artery, and it is crossed by the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the pharyngeal branch of the vagus. Branches.—The branches of this artery are very irregular and inconstant, but the following have received names :— (a) Pharyngeal Branches (rami pharyngei).—Small twigs which ramify on the walls of the pharynx and supply the middle and superior constrictor muscles, the tonsil, and the lower part of the Eustachian tube. They anastomose with branches of the superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries. (6) Prevertebral.—Small branches distributed to the prevertebral muscles and fascia, the deep cervical glands, and the large nerve trunks. They anastomose with the ascending cervical and vertebral arteries. (c) Meningeal(a. meningea posterior)one or more small branches which enter the cranium by the anterior condyloid, the posterior lacerate, or the middle lacerate foramen^ and supply the dura mater. They anastomose with branches of the middle meningeal and vertebral arteries. {(1) Tympanic (a. tympanica inferior), a small artery which accompanies the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve to the tympanic cavity, where it anastomoses with the other tympanic arteries. (e) Palatine.—A very variable artery which sometimes replaces the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery. When present it springs from the upper part of the ascend- ing pharyngeal artery, pierces the pharyngeal aponeurosis above the upper border of the superior constrictor muscle, and descends into the soft palate with the levator palati muscle. It supplies the mucous membrane of the supero-lateral part of the pharyngeal wall and the tissues of the soft palate, and it anastomoses with the palatine branches of the internal maxillary, the facial, and the lingual arteries. • (7) Superficial Temporal Artery (a. temporalis superficialis. Fig. 554).—This artery, one of the terminal branches of the external carotid, commences in the upper part of the parotid gland, behind the neck of the mandible, and terminates in the scalp, from one to two inches (25 to 50 mm.) above the zygoma, by dividing into an anterior and a posterior terminal branch. Course.—The artery ascends over the posterior root of the zygoma, and passes into the superficial fascia of the temporal region. It is accompanied by the auriculo-temporal nerve, and by the superficial temporal vein which usually lies posterior to it. As it crosses the zygoma it lies immediately beneath the skin, and it may be easily compressed against the subjacent bone. Branches.—(«) Parotid, small In-anches (rami parotidei) to the iipper part of the parotid gland. ijj) Articular, to the temporo-mandibular articulation. (c) Auricular.—Small branches (rami auriculares anteriores) to the outer surface of the pinna and to the external auditory meatus. They anastomose on the surface of the pinna with branches of the posterior auricular artery, and in the external meatus with branches of the internal maxillary artery. (fZ) Transverse Facial (a. transversa faciei).—A branch of moderate size which rises in the substance of the parotid gland. It emerges from the upper part of the anterior border of the gland, runs forwards across the masseter, below the zygoma and above Stensou's duct, accompanied by the infraorbital branches of the facial nerve which may lie either above or below it. It is distributed to the parotid gland, the masseter, Sten- sou's duct, and the skin, and it terminates in branches which anastomose with the infra- orbital and buccal branches of the internal maxillary artery, and with the buccal and masseteric branches of the facial artery. (e) Middle Temporal (a. temporalis media).—A branch which usually springs from the supei'ficial temporal in the parotid gland. It crosses the zygoma, pierces the temporal