THE VASCULAK SYSTEM. 836 and inner layers of the dura mater; they receive the blood from the terminal cerebral veins. Diploic and Meningeal Veins. The diploic veins (vv. diploicie) are anastomosing spaces in the cancellous tissue of the fiat l)ones of the skull; they are lined by endotheHum. The number of efferent vessels which emerge from these spaces is not constant, but usually there are at least four—viz. a frontal, two temporal, anterior and posterior, and an occipital. The frontal diploic vein (v. diploica frontalis) is one of the most constant; it drains the anterior part of the frontal bone, and, passing through a small aperture in the upper margin of the supraorbital notch, terminates in the supraorbital vein. The anterior temporal diploic vein (v. diploica temporalis anterior) drains the Fig. 581.—The Vkins of thr DiploB. posterior part of the frontal bone, and the anterior part of the parietal bone; it pierces the great wing of the sphenoid, and terminates either in the spheno-parietal sinus or in the anterior deep temporal vein. The posterior temporal diploic vein (v. diploica temporalis posterior) drains the posterior part of the parietal bone; it runs downwards to the posterior inferior angle of the parietal Ijone and terminates in the lateral sinus, to which it passes either through a foramen in the inner table of the parietal l)one or through the mastoid foramen. The occipital diploic vein (v. diploica occipitalis) is usually the largest of the series ; it drains the occipital bone, and terminates either externally in the occipital vein or internally in the lateral sinus. Tlie meningeal veins (vv. meningeje) commence in two capillary plexuses, a deep and a superficial. The deep plexus is a wide-meshed network in the inner layer of the dura mater. Its efferent vessels terminate in the superficial plexus. The superficial plexus lies in the outer layer of the dura mater. It consists of numerous vessels of uniform calibre which frequently anastomose together, and terminate in two sets of efferents; of these, one set terminates in the cranial blood sinuses, and the other accompanies the meningeal arteries. The efferent meningeal