DEVELOPMENT OF THE KESPIKATOEY APPAEATUS. 941 ciliated, bat it has become flat and pavement-like. Two kinds of epithelial cells may be recognised—(1) a few small granular polygonal cells, arranged singly or in groups of two or three; (2) more numerous thin cells of large size, and somewhat irregular in outline. Outside the epithelium is a delicate layer of faintly-fibrillated connective tissue. This is strengthened by a network of elastic fibres which is specially well marked around the mouths of the alveoli, and is also to some extent carried over the walls of the air-cells. Muscular fibres are likewise present on the walls of the infundibula, but it is questionable if any are prolonged over the air-cells. Pulmonary Vessels.—The pulmonary artery, as it traverses the lung, divides with the bronchi, and closely accompanies these tubes. The resultant branches do not anasto- mose, and for the most part they lie above and behind the corresponding bronchi. The fine terminal divisions of the artery join a dense capillary plexus which is spread over the alveoli or air-cells. This vascular network is so close that the meshes are barely wider than the capillaries which form them. In the partitions between adjacent alveoli there is only one layer of the capillary network, and thus the blood flowing through these vessels is exposed on both aspects to the action of the air in the air-cells. The radicles of the pulmonary vein arise in, and carry the blood from, the pulmonary capillary plexus. Each aff'erent arteriole supplies the blood which flows thi-ougli the capillaries spread over a number of neighbouring alveoli, and in like manner each efferent venous radicle drains an area corresponding to several adjoining air-cells. At first the veins run apart from the arteries, but after they have attained a certain size they join them and the bronchi. As a rale the pulmonary veins are placed on the lower and front aspect of the corre- sponding bronchi. Development of the Respiratory Apparatus. The larynx, the trachea, the bronchi, and the lungs arise as an outgrowth from the ventral aspect of the foregut. The first indication of a respiratory tract occurs in the human embryo when it has attained a length of 3"2 mm., on or about the fifteenth day of development. A median longitudinal groove makes its appeai'ance within the foregut on its ventral wall. This extends from the pharynx in front to the region of the stomach behind, and it graduall}'^ deepens as it passes backwards. The hinder or gastric end of this groove ends in a blind diverticulum or pocket, which freely communicates with the cavity of the foregut, and forms a hollow median protrusion on the ventral aspect of this portion of the primitive alimentary canal. Further, it is lined Avith entoderm or hypoblast continuous witli the entodei-mal lining of the foregut. Trachea and Larynx.—The groove on the ventral aspect of the foregut becomes first partially and then completely separated from the part of the foregut which lies on its dorsal aspect by two lateral ridges which grow inwards and finally meet. Two tubes are thus formed—viz. one behind, the oesophagus, and the other in front, the trachea and larynx. At their cephalic ends a communication between the two tubes is preserved as the permanent communication between the larynx and pharynx. The cephalic end of the air-tube, which is thus separated off' from the foregut, becomes enlarged to form the larynx, whilst the remainder is developed into the trachea. The cartilages of the larynx do not make their appearance until the eighth or ninth week. The thyroid cai-tilage is believed to be formed out of the ventral portions of the cartilages which support the 4th and 5th visceral arches of the two sides united in the median plane. The epiglottis takes form in the upper or front part of the furcula (see chapter on Embryo- logy, p. 33), whilst the arytenoids are developed in its lower or back part. The cricoid cartilage and the tracheal rings are formed in the mesoderm of the air-tube. Lungs and Bronchi.—The entodermic diverticulum, or pocket in which the gastric end of the primitive respiratory groove terminates, very early bifurcates into two vesi- cular portions, which represent the primitive right and left bronchi and lungs. From the first the right pulmonary vesicle is slightly the larger of the two. Both elongate, and a,lmost immediately each part vmdergoes a subdivision—the right into three vesicles, and the left into two vesicles—thus early indicating the three lobes of the right lung and the two lobes of the left lung. The hypoblastic or entodermal subdivisions thus formed are surrounded by mesoderm. The main subdivisions continue to branch and rebranch, pushing their way into the pulmonary mesoblast, until the complete bronchial tree is formed. The method of subdivision is very characteristic, and from the first the various branches are bulbous or flask-shaped at their extremities. These bifurcate, and although at first the two subdivisions in each case appear of equal importance, one grows out as the continuation of the main bronchial stem, whilst the other remains as a lateral branch.