969 THE TEETH. inner or lingual surface in all premolars. The upper are distinguished from the lower bicuspids, as jjointed out above, by the fact that in the ujjper the two cusps are separated by a groove, in the lower they are united by a ridge ; in the latter also the crowns are more circular (Figs. 646 and 653). It will furtlier usually be found tliat the outer or labial surface of the crown is strongly sloped (bevelled) inwards, near the grinding surface, in the lower j^remolars. The first can usually be distinguished from tlie second by the fact, that, while the lingual cusj) and surface are smaller than tlie labial in the first premolar, they are nearly of the same size in the second. In addition, the root of the first ujiper premolar is bifid or nearly so, and its labial ridge is fairly distinct, but is indistinct in the second. In the first lower premolar the lingual cusp and surface are very small, in fact the cusp is quite rudimentary. It should, however, be added that it is often extremely difficult to identify the various Incuspids. The differences may be expressed in tabular form thus :— Premolars. Root. Cusp and Surface. Upper (have two cusps separated by a groove) j 1st premolar bifid, or nearljr so Lingual smaller than labial. [•2ml single Lingual nearly as large as labial. Lower (have two cusps united by a ridge) 11st premolar single Lingual much smaller than labial. Lingual nearly as large as labial. Molar Teeth (denies molares).—The molar teeth, also known as the grinders or multicuspidati, are twelve in number—three on each side above and below—and are distinguished as first, second, and third molars. The latter is also known as the wisdom tooth, owing to its late eruption. All the molars are characterised by the large size of the crown and the possession of three or more trihedral cusps on the masticating surface (Eigs. 652 and 653). They are the largest of all the teeth, ])ut they diminish in size from the first to the third, the last l^eing, as a rule, the smallest of the three. In shape the crown is more or less quadrangular, with convex labial and lingual surfaces. The roots are either two or three in number, but frequently in the wisdom teeth they are united to a varying degree. The molars of the upper and lower jaws differ so consideral^ly in their furtlier details that they must be considered separately. They may Ije most readily dis- tinguished from one another by the fact that normally the upper molars possess tliree roots (Figs. 650 and 651), whilst the lower molars have two at most. The number of cusps, though not so reliaWe a guide as the form of the root, is also generally sufficient to distinguish them. In the upper molars there are either three or four cusps, whilst in the lower the number is most commonly five (see, however, page 971). In the upper molars, the crown, view"ed from the grinding surface (Eig. 652), is rhomboidal in shape (^i.e. quadrangular with the angles not right angles). The outer (labial) and the inner (lingual) surfaces are convex. The numljer of cusps is either four or three. On the Jir^st there are invarial)ly four—two on the laitial and two on the lingual side—the antero-internal (proximo-lingual) of these being connected with the postero-external (laljio-distal) by an oljlique ridge (Fig. 652), which is also found oia the second and third molars when these bear four distinct cusps. The second upper molar lias either foiir or three cusps in about an equal proportion of European skulls, whilst in the third the number is much more frequently three than four. The roots in the upper molars are three in numljer (except, occasionally, when the three roots of the wisdom tooth are confluent), two lieing external or labial, and the third internal or palatal (Figs. 650, 651, and 654). In the lower molars the crown, viewed from above (Fig. 653), is somewhat cubical. The outer and inner surfaces are convex, as in the upper molars. The Jirst, as a rule, bears five cusps, two being on the outer side, tw"0 on the inner, and the fifth behind and external, that is, between the two posterior cusps and somewhat to the outer side. The second has usually only four cusps; a fifth, however, is sometimes present. The third has either four or five, the former number more frequently than the latter. The roots of the lower molars are two in number, each wide, grooved, and