522 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. In the human brain the intraparietal sulcus is usually developed in four separate pieces, corresponding to the four portions of the fissure which have been described as being present in the adult Ijrain. The sulcus postcentralis inferior appears first (somewhere about the end of the sixth month), then the ramus occipitalis and the ramus horizontalis ; last of all the sulcus post- centralis superior comes into view. Tlie further development of the sulcus consists in the running together of these early pieces. Tliis takes place in different ways, and not infrequently union fails at one or more points, and thus a great variety of combinations may be noted in different individuals; indeed, it may be said that every possible kind of combination may be met with. The most common form which the fissure assumes, however, is that in which all its factors have become confluent and one continuous furrow re>sults. When sucli an intraparietal furrow is widely opened uj), certain deep annectant gyri, which cross the bottom of the sulcus. Termination of Sylvian fissure Fig. 388.—The Intraparietal Sulcus fully openkd up, so as to show its several parts and the deep anuectant gyri intervening between tliem. p'. Sulcus postcentralis inferior. p'*. Ramus horizontalis. p'^. Sulcus postcentralis superior. p''. Ramus occipitalis. come into view. These interrupt the sulcus at the points of union between its several pieces and indicate its original multiple formation. There is reason to believe that three of the elements of the human intraparietal sulcus, viz. the sulcus postcentralis inferior, the ramus horizontalis, and tlie ramus occipitalis, are disnipted portions of the primitive single continuous fissure which is seen in certain of the lower apes (Cebus), whilst one, the sulcus postcentralis superior, is a superadded element. There is a strong analogy between the postcentral sulcus, the fissure of Rolando, and the prascentral sulcus. They form a group of raclial sulci on the outer surface of the fcetal cerebrum above the Sylvian region. The fissure of Rolando makes its appearance first, then the praecentral sulcus, and, lastly, the postcentral sulcus. Each assumes shape in the first instance in two pieces, viz. an upper and lower. The two pieces of the fissure of Rolando join early, and only in very rare instances remain separate ; the two pieces of the postcentral furrow usually join, but in 19 per cent of cerebral hemispheres they remain separate; the two pieces of the priBcentral furrow, as a rule, remain separate and distinct. Tlie sulcus transversus occipitalis, or bifurcated extremity of the ramus occipitalis, is very generally believed to l)e the representative in the human brain of the conspicuous " Affenspalte " in the cerebrum of the ape. It is very doubtful if this is the case ; and it is also doubtful if there is, as a rule, in the adult human brain any representative of this simian fissure. The " Affenspalte " is a complete fissure, and every observer is agreed that in the human fcetal brain its equivalent is a deep infolding of the hemisphere wall which takes place in this locality, and which receives the name of the fissura perpendicularis externa. In the course of develojjment this fcetal fissure disappears; it is a transitory fissure and becomes completely wiped out from the hemisphere surface. The only connexion which exists between it and the sulcus occipitalis transversus consists in the fact that the latter, at a later period, becomes developed on the ground occupied by the transitory fissura pei-pendicularis externa. The upturned ends of the fissure of Sylvius, of the first temporal or parallel sulcus, and of the second temporal sulcus ascend for a short distance, one behind the other, into the inferior parietal gyrus. The intraparietal sulcus maps out three districts or gyri on the external surface of the parietal lobe, viz. the ascending parietal convolution, the superior parietal gyrus, and the inferior parietal gyrus. The posterior central convolution (ascending parietal convolution) is a long gyrus which extends obliquely across the hemisphere from the supero-mesial border above