104 OSTEOLOGY. also affords origin to the temporal muscle, and is often faintly marked by grooves which indicate the course of the middle temporal artery. Above the superior temporal line the bone is covered only by the tissues of the scalp. Near its upper Ijorder, and about an inch from its posterior superior angle, is the small parietal foramen (foramen parietale), through which pass a small arteriole and an emissary vein. The inner or cerebral aspect is concave from side to side and from above down- wards,, moulded over the surface of portions of the frontal, parietal, occipital, and temporal lobes of the cerebrum, it displays impressions corresponding to the arrange- ment of the convolutions of these portions of the brain. It also presents a series of well-marked grooves for the lodgment of the branches of the middle meningeal artery; these radiate from the anterior inferior angle of the bone, the best marked running upwards at some little distance behind and parallel to its anterior border. Within the upper margin are a series of depressions for Pacchionian bodies, and here also the bone is channelled so as to form a groove (sulcus sagittalis), Fig. 80.—Right Parietal Bone (Outer Side). which is completed by articulation with its fellow of the opposite side. Within this groove lies the superior longitudinal venous sinus, and to its edges the falx cerebri is attached. Close to the inferior posterior angle there is also a curved groove, the lateral sulcus, in which the lateral venous sinus is lodged. The anterior, superior, and posterior borders are deeply serrated. The anterior articulates with the frontal bone, and constitutes the coronal suture ; the posterior is united with the occipital bone, and forms the lambdoid suture. The superior border articulates with its fellow of the opposite side by means of the sagittal suture; in the interval between the two parietal foramina this suture is usually simple in its outline. The anterior siiperior angle (angulus frontalis) is almost rectangular, and corresponds to the site of tlie anterior fontanelle. The 'posterior superior angle (angulus occipitalis), usually more or less rounded, corresponds in position to the posterior fontanelle. The inferior border is curved, and shorter than the others, it lies between the anterior and posterior inferior angles. Sharp and bevelled at the expense of its outer table, it displays a liuted arrangement, and articulates with the squamous part of the temporal bone. The anterior inferior angle (angulus