1037 THE EECTUM. The rectum begins at the termination of the pelvic mesocolon, namely, about the level of the third sacral vertebra, and ends, w^here the bowel pierces the pelvic floor, opposite the lower and back part of the prostate in the male, or at a point li- inches (3'7 cm.) in front of, but at a lower level than, the tip the coccyx in both sexes. It first descends along the front of the sacrum and coccyx, following the curve of these bones; beyond the coccyx, it rests, for about 1| inches (3"7 cm.), on the back part of the pelvic floor, here formed by the union of the two levatores ani; and finally, having reached the lower part of the prostate, it bends rather abruptly backwards and downwards, and, piercing tlie pelvic floor, passes into the anal canal (Fig. 704). Its general direction is downwards, but this varies at its two extremities, heiug downwards and backwards above, downwards and strongly forwards below. Curvatures.—The rectum is far from straight, notwithstanding its name. Fio. 701.—The Rectum from behind. The sacrum lias been sawn across through the 4th sacral vertebra, and its lower part removed with the coccyx. Tlie posterior [tortions of the coccygei, levatores ani, and of the external sphincter have been cut away. The " pincliing in " of the lower end of the rectum by tlie inner edges of the levatores ani, resulting in the formation of the flattened anal canal, is suggested in the illustration, which has been made from a formalhi-hardened male body, aged thirty. The lateral inflexions of the rectum, corresponding to Houston's valves, are also shown. which describes its condition fairly accurately in most animals, but not in man, in whom it is curved in both the antero-posterior and the transverse planes. Viewed fro7n the side (Fig. 737), it forms a gentle curve, with the convexity backwards, which extends from the beginning of the rectum to the b'ack of the prostate, and fits into the hoUow of the sacrum and coccyx. At the back of the prostate a second curve is formed where the rectum joins the anal canal; this has its convexity directed forwards, whilst its concavity embraces the ano-coccygeal body—the mass of muscular and connective tissue which lies between the tip of the coccyx and the anal canal.