UKOGENITAL SYSTEM. 112G uterus. Each tulje is about four and a quarter inches in length, and opens at one end into the pelvic cavity near the ovary, and at the other end by a smaller opening into the lateral part of the uterine cavity. The tu])e is enclosed in a fold of peritoneum called the mesosalpinx, which is a portion of tlie l)road ligament of the uterus. The opening of the tu])e into the pelvic cavity—or ostium abdominale—is of small size, l)eing only about 2 mm. in diameter when its walls are relaxed, and much narrower when the muscular coat of the tube is contracted. This opening is placed at the bottom of a funnel-like expansion of the tube called tlie infundibulum (infundibiilum tubse uterinse), the margins of which are produced into a numl)er of irregular processes or fimbriae (fimbriie tubiie). The presence of these iimliri;e—many of which are branched or fringed—lias given the name fimbriated extremity to this end of the Fallopian tnhe. Tlie surface of tlie fimlirite which looks into the cavity of the infundi))ulnm is covered by a mucous membrane continuous with that lining the tube, while the outer surface is clothed by peritoneum. The mucous surfaces of the larger fimbriae present ridges and grooves which are continued into the folds and furrows of the mucous coat of the tube. One of the fimbriae, usually much larger than the rest, is connected either directly or indirectly with the upper or tubal pole of the ovary, and.to it the name ovarian fimbria (fimbria ovarica) is applied. The part of the tube continuous with the infundibulum, and into which the ostium abdominale leads, is called the ampulla (ampulla tulipe uterinae). This, Parovarium Ligament Lateral angle Fallopian tube I Ovary ol ovarj- Utci us n of uterus Hydatid- N'.iginal caviiy A B Fig. 772.—A. The Utbrus and Broad Ligament, seen khom behind (the broad ligament has been spread out). a, h, and c, the isthmus tubs, the ligament of the ovary, and the round ligament of the right side cut short. B. Diagrammatic Representation of the Uterine Cavity. the widest and longest portion of the Fallopian tube, is usually tortuous and of varying diameter, l)eing in some places slightly constricted, and in others dis- tended. The wide thin-walled ampulla ends in the narrower, thicker-walled, and much-shorter isthmus (isthmus tubte uterinae) which joins the lateral angle of the uterus. The last portion of the canal, or pars uterina, is embedded in the substance of the uterine wall which it traverses to reach the cavity of the uterus (Fig. 772, B). The opening into the uterus (ostium uterinum tubae) is smaller than the ostium abdominale, being alxnit 1 mm. in diameter. The lumen of the canal gradually increases in width as it is traced outwards from the uterus. Course of the Fallopian Tube.—Traced from the lateral angle of the uterus the Fallopian tube is directed at first horizontally outwards towards the lower, or uterine, pole of the ovary. It then passes upwards in relation to the inner side of the anterior l)order of the ovary, until it reaches the upper or tul)al pole, where, arching backw"ards, it descends along the posterior border, resting against the inner surface of the gland (Fig. 774). As the Fallopian tube describes this loop it often covers almost the entire inner surface of the ovary. The fiml)riated end of the tube lies against the lower part of the inner surface of the ovary, and from it the (ovarian fimljria passes upwards to gain attachment to the tubal pole. The fimbriated end of the Fallopian tuLe lies in the alxlominal cavity until the ovary in its descent has entered the pelvis.