524 THE NEKVUUS SYSTEM. sui'lace. The second deep annectant gyrus, termed the anterior cuneo-lingual, crosses the bottom of the calcarine fissure a short distance behind the jjoint where it is joined by the parieto-occi- pital fissure, and divides it into an anterior and a posterior part. The anterior calcarine fissure is slightly longer and mucli deeper than the posterior part. It includes the whole of the stem of Fiti. 389.—Lnteunal Pahieto-occu'ital and the Cai.i ahi.ne i''i,s.srKii.s kuli.y oi'ENEd ur, so as to sLow the deep aimeotant gyri marking off the several elements of the ■<-shaped system. the Y-shajied fissural arrangement and e.\tends backwards for a short distance into tlie euneus. It is the conijilete part of tlui fissure and gives rise to an elevation on the inner wall of the posterior horn of tlie latei-al ventricle, to which tlie name of calcar avis or hippocampus minor is given. The posterior calcarine fissure is shallower and is usually interrupted liy the third deep annectant gyrus, viz. the posterior cuneo-lingual; this divides it into two parts, of whicli the Fic. 390.—Development of the PAKiETo-occiPiTAr. ano the Calcakixe Fissuues. A, Mesial aspect of a left cerebral hemisphere of a foetus approaching the end of the fifth mouth of develop- ment ; B, Mesial aspect of a right cerebral henusphere of a foetus in the beginning of the seventh month of development. S.L. Septum liicidum. c'. Anterior calcarine fissure, f. Fornix. c''. ) U. Uncus. . g.d. Gyrus dentatus. p.o. Parieto-occipital fissure. ■ Two parts of posterior calcarine fissure. c.a. Anterior collateral fissure, cm. Mid-collateral fissure. hinder is little more than the bifurcated extremity of tlie fissure. Very frequently this dee]) gyrus reaches tlie surface, and then the hinder end of the sulcus is completely cut oft'. The posterior calcarine fissure is not a comjjlete fissure. When the manner in which the calcarine fissure is developed is studied, the various ajipear- ances ■which come into view when the bottom of the adult fissure is inspected receive tlie fullest explanation. Tlie anterior calcarine fissure is formed very early as an infolding of the wall of