710 THE OPtGANS OF SENSE. The mucous lining of the tube is continuous behind with that of the tympanic cavity and in front with that of the naso-pharynx. It is thin in the pars ossea, contains few, if any, mucous glands, and is firmly fixed to the bony wall; whilst in the pars cartilaginea it is loose and thrown into longitudinal folds. Numerous mucous glands open into the tube near its pharyngeal orifice, and here also there exists a considerable amount of adenoid tissue, which constitutes the " tube-tonsil" of Gerlach. This adenoid tissue is continuous with that of the naso-pharynx, and, like it, is especially well developed in children. The lumen of the tnhe is lined with ciliated columnar epithelium. The tube is opened, during deglutition, by the dilator tubse and salpingo- pharyngeus muscles. The former springs superiorly from the cartilaginous hook of the tube, and blends inferiorly with the tensor palati. When the dilator tubfe contracts, the cartilaginous hook and membranous part of the tube are drawn out- wards and forwards. Some anatomists are inclined to the view that the entire tensor palati acts chiefly as a dilator of the tube, and Elidinger has named it the abductor tubge. The salpingo-pharyngeus muscle draws downwards and back- wards the inner cartilaginous plate, increasing the angle between it and the outer plate. Some difference of opinion exists as to the precise action of the levator palati; probably it assists in opening the tube. The Eustacliian tube receives its blood-supply from the ascending pharyngeal artery and from the middle meningeal and Vidian branches of the internal maxillary artery. Its veins form a network which opens into the pterygoid venous plexus. The sensory nerves of the tube are derived from the tympanic 2ilexus and from the pharyngeal branches of the second division of the fifth cranial nerve. The tube of the child diifers considerably from tliat of the adult; its lumen is relatively wider, its direction more horizontal, and its pars ossea relatively .shorter. Kunkel states that its j)haryngeal orifice is below the level of the hard palate in the foetus ; at birth it is on the same level as the palate, wliilst at the fourth year it is 3 to 4 mm., and in the adult 10 mm., above it. The pharyngeal orifice forms a narrow fissure and its cartilage projects less towards the middle line. Tympanic Ossicles. The tympanic ossicles (ossicula auditus) form an articulated column connect- ing the outer with the inner wall of the tympanic cavity, and are named, from s B E Fig. 519.—Tympanic Ossicles of Left Ear (enlarged about three times). A, Incus, seen from the front ; B, Malleus, viewed from behind ; C, Incus, and D, Malleus, seen from inner aspect ; E, Stapes. 1. Body of incus, witli articular surface for liead of malleus. 2. Pi'ocessus loufjus. 3. Processus lenticularis. 4. Articular surface for incus. 5. Head, t). Neclc. 7. Processus brevis. 8. Manubrium. <■<. Body. 10. Short process. 11. Long process. 12. Processus longus. 13. Head. 14. Facet for incus. 15. Manubrium. 16. Head. 17. Neck. 18. Crus anterior. 19. Crus posterior. 20. Footplate. without inwards, the malleus or hammer, the incus or anvil, and the stapes or Stirrup. The first is attached to the inner surface of the membrana tympani; the last is fixed within the circumference of the oval fenestra. The malleus (Fig. 519, B, D), the largest of the three ossicles, has a length of 8 to 9 mm., and consists of a head (capitulum mallei), a neck (collum mallei), and a handle (manubrium mallei), together with two processes, viz.: (a) processus longus