178 OSTEOLOGY^ arches). According to Froriep the niaramaliaii occipital corresponds to the fusion of four vertebrie, and there is some reason for supjwsing that in sonic classes of vei'tebrates the occipital region of the primordial cranium is inci-eased by fusion with tlie higher cervical segments. The form of skull characteristic of man is dependent on the large jiroportionate development of tiie cranial part, wiiich contains the lirain, and tlie reduction in size of the visceral ])art (face), wliich protects the organs of special sense. This leads to a decrease in the size and projection of the jaws, as well as a reduction in the size of the teeth; Associated with the snialler mandible there is a feebler musculature, with a reduced area of attachment to the sides of the skull. In this way the disappearance of tlie muscular crests and foss.e, so characteristic of lower forms, is accounted for. At the same time the fact that the skull is poised on the summit of a vertical colunni, leads to important modifications in its structure. The disposition of parts is such that the occipito-vertebral articulation is so placed that the fore and hind parts of the head nearly balance each other, thus obviating the necessity for a ])o\verfid muscular and ligamentous mechanism to hold tlie head erect. Another noticeable feature in connexion with man's skeleton is the ])rolonged period during which growth may occur before maturity is reached ; this is associated with a more complete consolidation of the skull, since bones, which in lower forms remain throughout life distinct, are in man fused witli each other, as exemplified in the case of the presphenoid and postsjjhenoid, the occipital and the interparietal, to mention one or two instances among many. It is noteworthy, however, that during ontogeny the morphological signifi- cance of these bones is clearly demonstrated-by their independent ossification. The points of exit of the various ci-anial nerves remain remarkably constant, and in their primitive condition serve to suggest the segmental arrangement of the cartilaginous chondro-cranium already referred to. Owing to the very great modifications which the mammalian skull has undergone in the process of its evolution, it may be pointed out that the passage of the nerves tlirough the dura mater—a derivative, the readers may be reminded, of the primordial memln-anous cranium (see ante)—alone represents the primitive disposition of the nerves. Their subsequent escape through the bony base is a later and secondary development. In some cases the two, membranous or primary and the osseous or secondary foramina, correspond. In other instances the exit of the nerves through the dura mater does not coincide witii the ])assage through the bone. Of interest in this connexion it may be pointed out that the foramina and canals which traverse the skull are either situated in the line of suture between adjacent bones or in the line of fusion of the constituent parts of which the bone pierced is made up. For example, the sphenoidal fissure is situated between the orbito and alisphenoids; the anterior condylic between the basi and cxoccipitals ; the jugular between the petrous, basi, and exoccipital ; the optic between the orbito-sphenoid and the presphenoid ; the Vidian between the alis[)henoi(l, internal pterygoid plate, and the lingula. THE HONES OF THE UPPER EXTEEMITY. The Clavicle. The clavicle (clavicula), or collar bone, one of the elements in tlie formation of the slioulder girdle, consists of a curved shaft, the extremities of which are Stkrna I. 'rrai)pzius Fj(;. 122.—RicHT t'r.AVJci.E as seen fro.m Above. enlarged. The inner end, since it articulates with the sternum, is called the sternal end: the outer extremity, from its union with the acromion process of the scapula, is known as tlie acromial end.