92 OSTEOLOGY. Interclavicular notch Clavicular facet. The body (corpus sterni), usually twice the length and from half to two-thirds the width of the manubrium, displays evidence of its composite nature. If the anterior surface, which is slightly convex from above downwards, and faintly concave from side to side, be carefully examined, three ill-marked ridges may be seen crossing it transversely; these correspond to the lines of fusion between the four primitive segments. To this surface of the bone the great pectoral muscles are extensively attached on either side of the middle line. The lateral borders are thick and interrupted at points corre- Stevno-mastoid ,. , , i , i. i i spending to the transverse lines already mentioned by U-shaped hollows, the edges of which are more or less project- ing. These are for the reception of the cartilages of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs. The upper border is united to the manubrium above, and forms with it an angle of variable degree—the sternal angle (angulus sterni). A small facet is formed at the expense of the outer ex- tremity of this border, and in conjunc- tion with the facet on the lower border of the manubrium forms a recess on either side, in line with the angle, into which the cartilage of the second rib fits. The lower border of the body is curved, and in the middle line is united with the xiphoid cartilage, whilst on eitlier side it is pitted to receive the cartilages of the sixth and seventh ribs, the latter being in part supported by the xiphoid cartilage. The middle line of the body of the sternum anteriorly corresponds to the floor of the median surface furrow, which runs down the front of the chest in the interval between the two great pectorals. The posterior surface is slightly concave from above downwards, and displays faint indications of three transverse lines in correspondence with those placed anteriorly. It is in relation with the pleura and pericardium, and affords attachment at its lower extremity to the triangularis sterni muscle. The xiphi-sternum (processus xiph- oideus) displays many varieties of form and structure. It^s a pointed process of cartilage, supported by a core of bone connected above with the lower end of the body of the sternum, and having its lower extremity, to which the linea alba is attached, free. It lies somewhat pos- terior to the plane of the anterior surface of the manubrium, and forms a floor to the V-shaped interval between the carti- lages of the seventh ribs. In this way a depression is formed, the surface hollow in correspondence with which is called the pit of the stomach or infrasternal depression. To the sides of this process are attached the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles, whilst posteriorly the fibres of the diaphragm and triangularis sterni muscles derive attachment from it. It remains partly cartilaginous until middle life, at which time it generally undergoes ossification, particularly at its upper part, and becomes fused with the body. Of varied form, it may be met Rib cartila: V. Rib cai-tilagp. VI. Rib cartilage VII. Rib cartila Ensiform proce Rectus abdominis Fk;. 70.—The Sternom (anterior view).