964 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. embraces the back of the tuberculum impar, but it is separated from it in part by the anterior division of the sinus arcuatus, which persists even in the adult as the foramen ctecum, with the sulcus terminalis running forwards and outwards on each side from it. Finally, the two rudiments of the tongue—the tuberculum impar and the semilunar ridge —become blended, the only indication of the original separation being the foramen ca-cum, the sulcus terminalis, and the different characters which the mticous membrane presents on the two divisions of the organ. At the foramen ciecum tiie downgrowth which gjves rise to the isthmus of the thyroid gland takes place, and a part of the thyro-glossal duct which in the early condition connects the two may sometimes be found in the adult in connexion with tlie foramen. THE TEETH. 1st permanent premolar '2iid permanent premolar 1st permanent molar 2nd perman The teeth are highly modified portions of the mucous membrane of the mouth, specially developed to perform the important function of mastication, that is, the division and trituration of the food which takes place in tlie mouth before the holus, as the resulting Permanent canine UfWWWk maSS is Called, Can be swallowed. Each tooth is a calcified papilla of the mucous membrane of the mouth, and consists like that membrane of two chief portions —namely, the den- tine derived from the connective tissue, and the enamel from the epithelial layer of the mucous mem- brane. The dentine constitutes the chief mass of the tooth, whilst the enamel forms a cap for the portion which projects above the gum. There is also found in the teeth another special tissue—the cemen- tum orcrusta petrosa, a form of modified bone—which en- cases the roots, these latter being; formed dental canal 2nd milk molar 1st milk mol Mental I'uranie Fig. 648.—Teeth of Child over Seven Years old (modified from Testut). By removing the bony outer wall of the alveoli, the roots of the teeth which have been erupted, aud the permanent teeth which are .still embedded iu the mandible and maxilla, have been exposed. The milk teeth are coloured blue, the permanent teeth yellow. Tt will be seen that the first permanent molars have appeared, the central aud lateral milk incisors have beeu replaced by the corresponding permanent teeth in the upper jaw, but the milk canine aud molars have not yet been shed. In the lower jaw the central milk incisor has been replaced by the permanent central; the lateral has not yet beeu shed, but its permanent successor is making its way up to the surface on its lingual side. In addition, the canine and two molars of the milk set persist. The position chiefly of dentine, of the crowns of the permanent teeth between the roots of the milk molars, D e n t i ne a 11 d and the deep situation occupied by the permanent canines, should be noted. 1 V> f f' Observe also the absorption of the root of the lower lateral incisor enamel, DUt particu- larly the latter, are the hardest and most resistant structures in the body, and are thus specially fitted for the functions which they have to perform. Temporary and Permanent Teeth.—The mouth of the infant at birth contains no teeth, although a number, partly developed, lie embedded in the jaws beneath the gum. Some six months later teeth begin to appear, and by the end of the second year a set, known as the milk teeth, twenty in number, has been " cut." Then follows a pause of about four years, during which no visible change takes place in the mouth, although in reality an active preparation for further develop- ment is going on beneath the gum.