SURFACE AND 8UEGI0AL ANATOMY. 1210 extends downwards and somewhat backwards from the anterior end of the crest, to join the ilio-tibial band below the root of the great trochanter. Tlie gluteal artery reaches the ljuttock immediately below the upper border of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, opposite a point corresponding to the junction of the upper and middle thirds of a line drawn from the posterior superior iliac spine to the upper l)order of the great trochanter. To expose the vessel, the incision should be made along this line, which has the advantage of running parallel to the fibres of the gluteus maximus, as well a.s parallel to the interval between the gluteus niedius and jiyriformis muscles. The great sciatic nerve enters the buttock at a point corresponding to the junc- tion of the upper and middle thirds of a line drawn from the posterior superior iliac spine to the ischial tu))erosity: from this ])oint the nerve passes downwards and slightly outwards upon the ischium to a point midway between its tuberosity and tlie great trochanter. Tlie spine of the ischium and the pudic vessels are situated opposite the junction of the lower and middle thirds of the above line. The vessels and nerves wliich enter the buttock through the great sacro-sciatic foramen heloio the pyriformis, may be exposed through an incision ]>elow and parallel to that al)ove described for ex])osing the gluteal artery, viz. an incision corresponding to the middle two-fourths of a line extending from the upper end of the gluteal cleft to the root of the great trochanter; the deep landmarks are the lower border of the pyriformis and the root of the ischial spine. THE BACK OF THE THIGH. The hamstring muscles, and especially the tendon of the liiceps and semi- tendinosus, are thrown into prominence either l)y standing on tiptoes with the Femur Rectus femoris Great sciatic nerve Bicejis | Semiinenibranosus Adiluctor brevis Fid. 815.—Section thhoui^h TnniH at the Level ok the Upper Part of Hunter's Canal. knees slightly flexed, or l)y flexing the leg against resistance. By throwing the hamstrings into action, the line of the external intermuscular septum of tlie thigh is