THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. 472 peduncle are both afferent and efferent. The connexions winch they estabhsh in the pons are described on p. 463. The efferent fibres arise from cells in the gray cortex of the lateral hemisphere (also probably to some small extent in the cortex of the vermis), and end in connexion with the cells of the nucleus pontis, and likewise in the tegmental part of the pons. The afferent fibres, arising in the pons, end in the gray cortex of the lateral hemisphere of the cerebellum, and perhaps also in the cortex of the worm. The inferior peduncle is also composed of afferent and efferent fibres (see p. 459); only the more important connexions which these establish in the cerebellum can be touched on here. The principal afferent sti'and is the direct cerebellar tract. The fibres of this strand end in the cortex of the superior worm on both sides of the mesial plane, but chiefly on the opposite side. The principal efferent tract consists of the cerehello-olivary fibres, and the precise origin of these is doubtful. It appears probable that they come from cells in the cortex of both the worm and hemisphere, and also from cells in the nucleus dentatus. The numerous arcuate fibres which enter the inferior peduncle establish connexions with cells in the cortex of the lateral hemisphere and of the worm. The superior peduncle is an efferent tract. The majority of its fibres come from the cells of the nucleus dentatus, whilst a small proportion appear to come from the cere- bellar cortex. According to Risien Russell, the fibres which form the dorsal edge of the band come from the opposite side of the cerebellum and cross the mesial plane to join the peduncle. Our knowledge of the connexions of the peduncles of the cerebellum has been greatly extended by Ferrier and Aldren Turner ; and the account which is given above, and also at p. 463, is largely derived from their memoir on this subject. As already mentioned, the views of Klimoff upon the cerebellar connexions do not coincide with those exjjressed above. He Ijelieves that the efferent tracts to the parts above (viz. the mesencephalon and cerebrum) are the sui^erior cerebellar tracts; whilst the efferent tracts to tlie parts below are the direct sensory cerebellar tracts of Ediuger {vide p. 482), which spring from the vermis and pass down to Deiters's nuclei. From these internodes tracts pi'oceed downwards in the antero-lateral columns of the cord as far as the lumbar region. These latter are termed Lowenthal's anterior marginal bundles. Further, according to Klimoff, the middle and inferior peduncles are entirely afferent—the foi'mer binding the cerebellum to the cerebral cortex through the nucleus pontis as an internode, and the latter binding it to the medulla and cord.' Commissural and Association Fibres.—In addition to those fibres of the white medullary centre which belong to the system of peduncles, there are others which have exclusively cerebellar connexions. Thus the various folia are boimd together by numerous association fibres, which pass from one folium into another around the bottom of the inter- vening fissure. Tracts of transversely-directed commissural fibres cross the mesial plane in the white centre of the vermis, connecting corresponding parts of opposite sides. These, in some measure, are analogous to the corpus callosum of the cerebrum. The roof nuclei are also closely bound by connecting fibres with the cortex. Medullary Vela.—The medullary vela are closely associated with the cerebellar peduncles. Tliey consist of two thin laminte of white matter, which are projected out from the white central core of the cerebellum. The superior medullary velum is described on p. 451. Laterally, it is continuous with the dorsal edges of the superior cerebellar peduncles; whilst, inferiorly, it is prolonged downwards and backwards under the lingula and the central lobule of the superior worm, to become continuous with the central white matter or corpus trapezoides of the worm. The inferior medullary velum is more complicated in its connexions. It presents much the same relations to the nodule of the inferior vermiform process that the superior velum presents to the lingula of the superior vermiform process. It is a wide thin lamina of white matter—so thin that it is translucent—which is pro- longed out from the white centre of the cerebellum above the nodule. From the nodule it stretches outwards to the flocculus on each side, thereby bringing these three small portions of the cerebellum into association with each other (Fig. ;M9). Where it issues from the white matter of the cerebellum it is in contact with the superior medullary velum, but, as the two laminte are traced forwards, they immediately diverge from each other. The superior velum is carried upwards between the two superior cerebellar peduncles, whilst the inferior medullary velum is curved forwards and then downwards round the nodule, and ends at a variable point in a free, slightly thickened, crescentic edge. The cavity of the fourth