THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 950 Tlu' vessels of the palate are derived from the posterior palatine artery, wliii h i iins forwards on the hartl palate close to the alveolar Iwrdei', and from the ascending palatine branch, of the facial, which accompanies the levator palati to the soft j)alate. The nerves—all branches of Meckel's ganglion—are: the large posterior palatine, which descends throngli the posterior palatine canal and runs forward on the hard jjalate with the ])osterior palatine artery; the naso-palatine, which jiasses down tliroiigh the foramen of Scarjia and reaches the front of the liard palate ; and the small posterior and accessory posterior palatine nerves, which run through the accessory palatine canals and sujiply the soft i)alat('. Fauces or Isthmus of the Fauces (istlimus fauciuni).—This is the aperture through which the mouth communicates with tlie pharynx (Fig. G38). It is bounded at the sides l)y the anterior palatine arches, alcove l\y the under surface of the soft palate, and below by the dorsum of the tongue; in width it corresponds pretty closely to the cavum oris. The anterior palatine arches (arcus glosso-palatiuus), often known as the anterior ])illars of the fauces, are two prominent folds of mucous meml)rane, containing the palato-glossus muscles in their interior, which bound the isthmus of the fauces laterally (Fig. 638). Springing aliove from the under surface of the soft palate, a little way (about 8 mm.) in front of its free edge, and near the l)ase of the uvula, they pass downwards and slightly forwards to join the tongue a little l)ehind tlie middle of its lateral border. The posterior palatine arch is described with the pharynx (p. 984). THE TONGUE. The tongue (lingua) is a large mobile mass composed chiefly of muscular tissue, and covered by mucous membrane, which occupies the floor of the mouth and forms the anterior wall of the oral pharynx (Fig. 639). Whilst the sense of taste resides chiefly in its modified epithelium, the tongue is also an important organ of speech, and, in addition, it assists in the mastication and deglutition of the food—functions which it is well fitted to perform, owing to its muscular nature and great mobility. In length it measures, when at rest, about three and a half inches, l)ut both its length and width are constantly varying with every change in the condition of the organ, an increase in length being always accompanied by a diminution in width, and vice versa. In describing the tongue we distinguish the following parts: the body (corpus lingua;), made up chiefly of striped muscle, and forming the mass of the organ ; the dorsum (Fig. 640), which looks towards the palate anil pharynx, and is free in its whole extent; the base, the posterior wide end which is attached to the hyoid bone ; the apex or tip, the pointed and free anterior extremity ; the margin, which is free in its anterior half or more, i.e. in front of the attachment of the anterior palatine arch (Fig. 640). Finally, the unattached portion on the inferior aspect, seen when tlie apex is turned strongly iipwards (Fig. 643), constitutes the inferior surface; whilst the attached portion, fixed l)y muscles ami mucous meml)rane to tlie hyoid bone and mandible, is known as the root. The dorsum of the tongue (dorsum linguse), when the organ is at rest, is strongly arched from before backwards in its whole length (Fig. 63)9), the greatest convexity corresponding to the attachment of the anterior palatine folds. When removed from the body tlie tongue,.unless previously hardened in situ, loses its natural shape, and appears as a flat, elongated oval structure, which gives a very erroneous idea of its true form and connexions. Corresponding to its differently-directed portions, the dorsum is naturally divided into two areas—an anterior or oral part, which lies nearly horizontally on the floor of the mouth, and constitutes about two-thirds of the length of the whole tongue (Fig. 640); and a posterior or ^j/tft?'?/?i^/ca/ the remaining third of the organ, which is placed nearly vertically, and forms the anterior wall of the oral pharynx (Fig. 641). The separation l)etween these two parts, which differ in appearance as well as in direction, is indicated by a distinct V-shaped groove, called the sulcus terminalis (Fig. 641), the apex of which is directed backwards, and corresponds to a blind depression on the surface of the tongue, the foramen caecum, whilst its diverging limbs pass outwards and forwards towards the attachments of