1025 THE C^CUM AND APPENDIX. tlie first of these (the anterior) that the appendices epiploicie are found. On the ti'ansverse colon their arrangement is different, but is rendered exactly similar hy turning the great omentum, with the colon, up over the thorax. On the transver.se colon in the natural jjosition, the anteiior t;enia of the ascending and descending colons becomes the posterior (or postero- inferior, tienia libera), the postero-external becomes the anterior (or omental), and the postero- internal the superior or mesocolic. The anterior and postero-external taenia of the iliac colon pass below on to the front of the pelvic colon and rectum. In Ibrmalin-hardened bodies poi'tions of the large intestine, but particularly of the descending and sigmoid colons, are often found fixed in what appears to be a state of contraction, when they are reduced to a diameter of about f or | of an inch (16 to 19 mm.). Under similar con- ditions parts of the small intestine are found corresjjondingly reduced. The appendices ej^iploicce, although generally said to be aljsent in tlie fcetus, can be distinctly seen as early as the seventh month, Imt at this time they contain no fat. Structure of the Large Intestine.—The serous coat is complete on the vermiform a]>pendix, c£ecum, transverse colon, and pelvic colon ; incomplete on the ascending, descending, and iliac divisions of the colon and on the rectum. It will be described in detail with each of these portions of the intestine. The mucous coat is of a pale, or yellowish, ash colour in the colon, but becomes much redder in the rectum. Unlike that of the small intestine, its surface is smooth, owing to the absence of villi, but it is closely studded with the orifices of numerous large Lieberkuhn's glands. Solitary glands are also numerous, particularly in the vermiform process (Fig. 697). Vessels and Nerves.—The ciecum and vei-miform appendix receive their blood from the ileo-colic artery; the ascending colon from the right colic; and the transverse colon from the middle colic which lies in the transvei'se mesocolon. These are all branches of the superior mesenteric artery. The descending colon is supplied by the left colic, and the iliac and pelvic colons by the sigmoid arteries, branches of the inferior mesenteric. The rectum derives its blood from the three haemorrhoidal arteries, which will be described with that division of the gut. The veins correspond to the arteries, and join the inferior and superior mesenteric vessels, which send their blood into the portal vein. The lymphatics begin in the mucous membrane, and form a large jilexus in the sidjmucosa; leaving the gut, those of the caicum, ascending, transverse, and upper half of the descending colon, pass to the mesocolic glands, which lie behind the ascending and descending divisions of the colon and between the layers of the transverse mesocolon. The lymphatics from the lower half of the descending, and from the iliac and pelvic colons, join the left lymphatic trunk of the lumbar glands. Those of the rectum will be described later. Nerves. — The nerves come from the superior mesenteric plexus, an offshoot of the solar plexus, and from the inferior mesenteric, a derivation of the aortic plexus. The arrangement is similar to that of the nerves of the small intestine. THE CECUM AND APPENDIX. Anterior tenia coli Upper .segment of ileo-colic valve Frenulum of tlie valve Orifice of valve Inferior segment Terminal part of ileum After leaving the pelvic cavity, as already descriljed, the terminal portion of tlie small intestine passes upwards, back- wards, and to the right, and opens, by the ileo-eaecal orifice, into the large intestine some 2| inches from its lower end. The portion of the large gut which lies below the level of this orifice is known as the caecum (caput caecum coli). In shape (Fig. 693) it is a wide, unsymmetrical, or lop-sided cul-de-sac, furnished with the tsenite and sacculations usually found in the large intestine. Its lower end or fundus is directed downwards and inwards, and usually rests on the front of the right psoas muscle, close to the brim of the pelvis; whilst the opposite end is directed upwards and outwards, and is continued into the ascending colon. Its unsymmetrical form is due to the fact that the outer and inner portions of the organ undergo an unequal development in the child. The inner (or inner and posterior) section lags 65 Tieniaj coli' Orifice of Fit;. 693.—Cjeuum showinc; Ileo-c.-ecal Valve. The caecum has been distended with air and dried, and a portion of its anterior wall has been removed.