THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 993 21-f "^' The superficial epithelial cells are ciliated and somewhat cylindrical between tlie fourth and eighth months of foetal life (Neumann); subsequently tlie adult condition is established. THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. As the remaining parts of the digestive system lie within the abdomen it will be necessary to describe that cavify as a whole, and to refer briefly to its lining- membrane—the peritoneum—before passing on to the consideration of the viscera which are contained within it. Tlie abdomen is that portion of the cavity of the trunk which lies below the diaphragm. It is the largest of all the cavities of the body, and contains the greater part of the digestive, urinary, and generative systems of organs, in addition to numerous vessels, nerves, and other structures. ■ Shape.—In general, the abdominal cavity is of a somewhat oval form, witli tlie long axis d.irected vertically, and the wide end upwards. It is strongly flattened from before backwards, and is encroached upon in the middle line posteriorly by the projection forwards of the vertebral column, on each side of wliicli it presents the appearance of a deep wide groove. Boundaries.—The cavity is limited above by the concave vault of the diaphragm, which is dome-shaped and divided into a right and a left cupola by an interven- ing depression. Into the right cupola fits the greater part of the liver; in the left lie the stomach and spleen. On the upper surface of each cupola is placed the base of the corresponding lung, whilst between them, on the depression, rests the under surface of the lieart. During expiration, the right cupola ascends almost to the level of the right nipple; it is highest at a point about one inch internal to the nipple line, and here it reaches the upper border of the fifth rib, or even the middle of the fourth inter- costal space. On the left side it is one-half to one inch (12-25 mm.) lower, and in the middle line it crosses the inferior extremity of the gladiolus about the level of the sixth rib cartilage. Below, the cavity is limited by the pelvic floor, formed by the levatores ani, and coccygei muscles, covered on their upper surface by the pelvic fascia. The anterior wall is formed by the aponeuroses of the three flat abdominal muscles, together with the two recti, which latter constitute powerful braces for the waU, on each side of the middle line. Tlie lateral walls are formed by the muscular portions of the obliqui and transversales muscles, and by the iliac bones with the iliacus muscles below. Finally, the cavity is limited behind by the lumbar portion of the vertebral column with the psoas muscle on each side, and the quadratus luuiborum stiU further out. The iliac bones also take part in the formation of tlie posterior wall iuferiorly. The upper portion of the cavity lies under cover of the ribs, which aftbrd con- siderable protection to this part of the abdomen, particularly at the sides and behind, in which latter position the cavity is further protected by the vertebral column. Anteriorly, on the other hand, the ribs are wanting below the sternum, and here, the abdominal wall is formed only of aponeuroses and muscles. But even at the sides and back there is a considerable zone, usually one to two inches wide (Cunningham), between the lower ribs above and the crest of the ihum below, which has no bony support except that afforded by the vertebral column. Whilst the circumference of the diaphragm is attached to the lower part of the thoracic framework in front and at the sides, and to the lumbar vertebrae behind, the central portion of the dome, on the other hand, namely, the central tendon, is placed high up, under cover of the ribs, and in a more or less horizontal plane. As a result-, the peripheral muscular part slopes almost vertically upwards from the circumference of the thoracic framework to the central tendon, and lies for a considerable distance in contact with the deep surface of the ribs; thus the diaphragm comes to form, not only the roof of the cavity, but it also enters into the formation of the lateral, posterior, and, to a less extent, of the anterior walls; and almost as much of the cavity of the abdomen as of the thorax lies under cover of the ribs. 63