THE BLADDEE. 1093 -During the various changes in form and The part of the bladder which connects the apex witli the base, a,nd which is not sharply marked off from either, is called the body, or corpus vesicae. Position of the Urethral Orifice. position which the bladder undergoes, the region of the uretliral orifice remains almost fixed in position. When the l)ladder is verj' much distended this region merely lies at a slightly lower level in the pelvis than it does when the organ is empty; on the other hand, distension of the lower part of the rectum raises, to some extent, the level of the urethral orifice. The urethral orifice lies immedi- ately above the prostate, behind and slightly below the level of the upper margin of the symphysis pul)is, and about two to two and a half inches from it. It can be easily readied by a finger introduced into the 1 ladder through the. alxloniinal wall above the symphysis pubis. It is usually placed half an inch to one inch above the level of a plane passing through the lower margin of the symphysis and the lower end of tlie sacrum, but in some cases it is found to be somewhat lower. In the female it normally occupies a lower level than in the male. Since the position of the internal urethral orifice varies, in the manner above described, with the condition of the rectum and of the bladder itself, it follows that it lies at its lowest limit when the bladder is full and the rectum empty, and at its liighest level when the bladder is empty and the rectum distended. Under Aspect of the Bladder.—The lower part of the bladder, whitli is directed towards the pelvic floor, changes, as we have seen, but sliglitly with the varying amount of distension of the bi; - ■ ;x- viscus. When the organ has been ^ ' * carefully hardened before its removal ' ' from the body, it is possible to map out on its under aspect three convex triangular areas which may be distin- guished from one anotlier by the direc- tions in which they look. The three areas approach one another in the region of the urethral orifice, where, in the male, a portion of the under aspect of the liladder wall is structur- ally continuous with the upper part of the prostate. Behind the urethral orifice is a triangular district, directed downwards and l )ackwards, and related, iri^the male, to the seminal vesicles and the terminal portions of the vasa deferentia which, together with the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia, intervene lietween this part of the bladder and the rectum. This triangular area of the bladder wall is known as the base, or postero-inferior surface of the bladder, and iyi the female is directed against the anterior wall of the vagina. The rest of the under aspect of the liladder is formed by two infero-lateral areas, or surfaces, which meet in the middle line in front of the urethral orifice, and are directed for the most part downwards and outwards (see Fig. 739). Each of these areas extends backwards to join the postero-inferior surface, or base, along a rounded border which lies between the point where the ureter reaches the bladder and the urethral orifice. The infero-lateral part of the bladder wall rests against the fascia covering the levator ani and oliturator internus muscles, and, nearer the middle line, upon the puliis and retro-pul)ic pad of fat. The three rounded liorders which mark off the three triangular areas on the under aspect of the bladder, just described, extend from the region of the urethral orifice to the bladder apex, and to the points where the ureters reach the liladdt^r wall (see Fig. 739). Shape and Relations of the Empty Bladder.—When th'e l)ladder is empty, or nearly so, it-has, roughly spealving, tlie shape of an inverted tetrahedron, whose apex corresponds to the point where the urethra leaves the organ, while the base of the tetrahedron is formed by the superior surface of the bladder. The three -Lateral border Infero-Iatcrsl area Area continuous with prostate Base of bladder Ureter Fk!. 739.—Under Aspect of the empty Male Bladder from a subject in which the viscera liad been liav- flened in situ. The prcstate has been severeil from the bladder, and the wliite area in the drawing indicates the position wliere the two structures were continuous.