543 STEUOTUKE OF THE CEREBRAL CORTEX. convolution it is always thicker than at the bottom of a furrow. The maximum thickness of cortex (about 6 mm.) is attained in the upper parts of the two central convolutions, whilst the minimum (about 2'5 mm.) may be observed in the region of the occipital pole. The amount of gray cortex differs considerably in different. individuals, and appreciably diminishes in old age. It is also stated, but upon very imperfect evidence, that it is relatively more abundant in the male than in the female. In structure, likewise, marked differences may be noted in the gray cortex of different regions. In certain localities this is quite apparent to the naked eye when sections are made through it, but the 'relation which this bears to the functions displayed by these different regions is, to a great extent, unknown. Further, there are no sharp transitions in structure. One form of cortex passes gradually and in- sensibly into the variety of cortex which is distinctive of an adjoining region, and throughout the whole mass a general ground type may be recognised. It is only to those general structural features which more or less chai-acterise the entire cortical layer that we shall be able to refer. When sections are made through the fresh brain, and the cut surface is closely inspected, it will usually be apparent that the cortex is indistinctly stratified. On the outside there is a thin, whitish layer, and beneath this the gray matter presents two strata of very nearly equal thickness, viz. : a middle, gray-coloured stratum and an inner, yellowish-red stratum. Between the two latter layers a narrow white band is, in many places, visible. This is termed the outer band of Baillarger. When the layers indicated above are present, four strata superimposed on each other are recognised; but in certain regions, as, for instance, in the anterior central convolu- tion, a second white streak traverses the deep or inner gray layer and divides it into two. This is termed the inner white band of Baillarger, and, when it is present, the gray cortex becomes divided obscurely into six alternating white and gray layers. The outer band of Baillarger is strongly marked in the region of the calcarine fissure and gives a characteristic appearance to this portion of the cortex. In this locality it receives the name of the band o^ Vicq d'Azyr (Fig. 400, p. 538). To obtain a full understanding of the minute structure of the cerebral cortex many different methods must be employed, and it is only by combining the several separate pictures which are thus afforded that the end in view is, in some measure, reached. The stratification indicated above has little bearing upon the more essential points of the intimate structure of the cortex. The three white layers are brought about by an aggregation of fibres running in a tangential direction, or, in other words, in a direction parallel to the surface of the convolution. Nerve-cells.—According to the arrangement and the characters presented by the nerve-cells which are met with at different depths, it is now usual to recognise four layers in the cortex. These are: (1) the stratum zonale ; (2) the layer of small pyramidal cells ; (3) the layer of large pyramidal cells ; and (4) the layer of polymorphic cells. As the pyramidal cells are specially characteristic of the cerebral cortex, we shall describe the two layers which contain them first. The difference between these two layers largely depends upon the difference in the size of the constituent cells. Taken together, the second and third layers constitute the chief part of the cortex ; they merge insensibly into each other, and, in the pai-ietal and frontal lobes, the layer of large pyramidal cells is the thickest of all the layers. In both of these sti'ata the pyramidal cells present the same form, and apparently also similar connexions. A pyramidal cell has a triangular outline. Its apex is directed towards the surface of the convolution and is drawn out into a long, tapering, apical, dendritic process; its base is turned towards the medullary centre of the gyrus, and from this (usually from the centre) a slender axon proceeds. Nvimerous lateral dendrites are given off from both sides of the cell-body, and particularly from the two basal corners. The apical dendrite varies in length, according to the depth at which the cell is placed. In every case it passes straight towards the surface of the convolution. Every here and there fine lateral branches come off from it, and idtimately it enters the stratum zonale, where, close to the surface, it ends by breaking up into a large number of fine terminal filaments, which spread out horizon- tally in every direction and interlace closely with the corresponding filaments of other pyramidal cells and with the other elements of this layer. The axon of the cell descends, gives off collaterals, assumes a medullary sheath, and enters the central white core of the gyrus as a nerve fibre.