THE SPHENOID BONE. 123 is seen the anterior opening of the Vidian canal. Below, the pterygoid plates are separated by an angular cleft, the pterygoid notch (fissura pterygoidea); in this is lodged the tuberosity of the palate bone, the margins of which articulate with the serrated edges of the recess. Connexions. — The sphenoid articulates with the occipital, temporals, parietals, frontal, ethmoid, sphenoidal turbinals, vomer, palate and malar bones, and occasionally v/ith the superior maxilhe. Architecture.—In the adult the body of the bone is hollow and encloses the sphenoidal air cells, usually two in number, separated by a septum. The arrangement and extent of these air cells vary ; sometimes they are multilocular, at other times simple, while occasionally they extend backwards into the basioccipital and outwards and downwards into the roots of the great wings and pterygoid processes. Cases are on record in which in the adult the body of the bone was not pneumatic. Variations.—Through imperfect ossification the foramen spinosum and foramen ovale are sometimes incomplete posteriorly. On the other hand, owing to tlie ossification of fibrous bands connecting the several bony points, anomalous foramina are frequently met with. Cases of persistence of the cranio-pharyngeal canal liave been recorded. Ossification.—The sphenoid of man is formed by the fusion of two parts, the pre- sphenoid and the post-sphenoid, each associated with certain processes. In most mammals the orbito-sphenoids or lesser wings fuse with the pre-sphenoid, whilst the alisphenoids or greater wings, together with the internal pterygoid plate, ankylose with the post-sphenoid. The ossification of these several parts takes place in cartilage, with the exception of the internal pterygoid plate, which is developed from an independent centre in the connective tissue of the lateral wall of the oral cavity (Hertwig). At the end of the second month a centre appears in the root of the great wing between the foramen ovale and foramen rotundum; from this the ossification spreads outwards and backwards and also downwards into the external pterygoid plate. Meanwhile two centres appear about the same time in the basi-sphenoid in relation to the floor of the sella turcica and on either side of the cranio-pharyngeal canal, around which they ossify, ultimately leading to the obliteration of this channel. Somewhat later a centre appears on either side, from which the lateral aspect of the body and the lingula are developed. Fusion between these four centres is usually complete by the sixth month. In the pre-sphenoid a pair of lateral nuclei make their appearance about the middle of the third month, just external to the optic foramina; from each of these the orbito- sphenoids (lesser wings) and their roots are developed. About the same time another pair of centres, placed mesial to the optic foramina, constitute the body of the pre- sphenoid. By the coalescence of these in front, and their ultimate union with the basi- sphenoid behind, a cartilaginous interval is enclosed, of triangular shape, which, however, becomes gradually reduced in size by the ingrowth of its margins so as to form two mesially-placed foramina, as may be frequently observed in young bones—one opening on the surface of the olivary eminence, the other being placed anteriorly (Lawrence, Soc. Anat." Journ. Anat. and Physiol., vol. xxviii. j^. 19). As has been said, the internal pterygoid plates are developed in membrane. Each is derived from a single nucleus which appears about the fourth month and fuses with the under surface of the great wing, there forming a groove, which is converted into the Vidian canal when the alisphenoid and internal pterygoid plates fuse later with the body of the post-sphenoid. At birth the sphenoid consists of three parts : one comprising the orbito-sphenoids together with the body of the pre-sphenoid and the basi-sphenoid, the others consisting of the alisphenoids, one on either side. Fusion of the latter with the former occurs near the end of the first year. The dorsum sella at birth consists of a cartilaginous plate which separates the body of the post-sphenoid from the basi-occipital. This slowly ossifies, but the cartilage does not entirely disappear till the age of twenty-five, by which time bony anky- losis of the basi-cranial axis is complete. For a considerable time the under surface of the body of the pre-sphenoid displays a buUate appearance, with the sides of which the sphenoidal turbinated bones articulate. It is only after the seventh or eighth year is Fig. 94.—Ossification of Sphenoid. a, Presphenoid; b, Orbito-spheuoids ; c, Alisphenoids ; d, Internal pterygoid plates ; e, Basisphenoid. Proc.