THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. 1125 often seen slightly projecting and ready to burst. In the deepest part of the ovary the blood-vessels are most numerous, and here also some smooth muscle fibres are to be found. The ova and other cells that compose the Graafian follicles are derived originally from the germinal epithelium which covers the developing ovary in the embryo. The epithelium, at first simple, grows down into the underlying tissue iji the form of branching tube-like processes, or " egg tubes." This takes place during fcotal development, and the branching cellular processes so formed become broken up, within the stroma, into little nests or clumps of cells, each of which becomes a Graafian follicle. From the beginning Cowngrowths of epitliPliuni Oviini witli its investing cells Stratum graiuilosum Nests of epithelial colls Ovarian stroma Graafian follicle Ovum Discus proligerus FlO. 771.—A. DiAGKAMMATIC REPRESENTATION OP THE MANNER IN WHICH THE GRAAFIAN FOLLICLES ARISE IN THE Developing Ovary. B. Diagram Illustrating the Structure of a Ripe Graafian Follicle. some cells of the egg tubes are larger than the others; these become the future ova, while the cells round them become the investing cells of the follicle. The investing cells, at first flattened, form a layer round each ovum. Later becoming columnar, as the follicle increases in size and sinks more deeply in the stroma, these cells divide in such a manner that the ovum becomes surrounded by a double layer of cells. Fluid—liquor folliculi—accumulates between the two cellular layers, except at one place where the inner cells surrounding the ovum remain attached to the outer layer or stratum granu- losum. To the inner cellular mass enclosing the ovum (ovulum) the term discus proligerus (cumulus oophorus) is applied (Fig. 771). The ripe follicle contains a rela- tively' large amount of fluid, and the surrounding stroma becomes differentiated to form for each a capsule (theca folliculi). This capsule is composed of an inner more vascular layer (tunica interna), and an outer more fibrous layer (tunica externa). There is reason to believe that in the human embryo the formation of ova and follicles ceases at birth, and that the appearances which have led to the belief that they may originate during the first years of extrauterine life have been due to pathological conditions. In the young child there are enormous numbers of small follicles in the superficial parts of the ovary, but in old age none are found in this situation. The appearance and structure of the ripe ova have been described on p. 10. Vessels and Nerves of the Ovary.—The ovarian arteries, corresponding to the spermatic arteries of the male, are a pair of long slender vessels which spring from the anterior aspect of the aorta, below the level of origin of the renal vessels.. Each gains the pelvis in the fold of jjeritoneiim forming the suspensory ligament of the ovary, and enters the ovary at its anterior border or liilus. These ovarian arterie.s anastomose freely near the hilns with other A'essels derived from the uterine arteries. The blood is returned by a series of comnumicating veins, similar to the pampiniform plexus in the male. The nerves of the ovary are derived chiefly from a plexus which accomj^anies the ovarian artery, and which is continuous aliove with the renal plexus. Other fibres are derived from the lower part of the aortic plexus, and join the plexus on the ovarian artery (plexus arterise ovaricae). The lympliatiGS of the ovary join with those from the upper part of the uterus, and end in the lumbar lymphatic glands. THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. The Fallopian tubes (tubae uteriuse) are a pair of ducts or passages which convey the ova, discharged from the Graafian follicles of the ovaries, to the cavity of the