LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF HEAD AND NECK. 865 portion of the .temporal bone. They receive afferent vessels from the posterior part of the parietal region of the scalp, and from the inner surface of the pinna; their efferents join the snperiicial cervical glands. The zygomatic or internal maxillary glands (lymphoglandulee faciales profundse) are very variable both in number and size; they lie with the internal maxillary artery on the posterior part of the buccinator muscle, and on the anterior part of the wall of the pharynx. Their afferent vessels are derived from the orbit, the temporal fossa, the zygomatic fossa, the palate, the nose, and the cerebral meninges. Their efferent vessels open into the upper deep cervical glands. The parotid lymphatic glands (lymphoglandulse auriculares anteriores), which are embedded in the substance of the parotid gland, some superficially and others deeply. The superficial receive afferents from the frontal and the temporal regions of the scalp, from the eyebrow, the upper and lower eyelids, the upper part of the cheek, the root of the nose, and the outer surface of the pinna. Their efferents pass to the superficial and the upper deep cervical glands. Tlie deep parotid lymphatic glands (lympho-giandulce parotidese) lie along the course of the upper part of the external carotid artery. They receive afferents from the external meatus, the soft palate, the posterior part of the nose, and the deeper portions of the cheek. Their efferents open into the upper deep cervical glands. The buccal lymphatic glands are few in number and small in size; they lie on the outer surface of the anterior part of the buccinator muscle. Their afferents are derived from the cheek and the side of the face, and their efferents join the deep parotid and submaxillary glands. The lingual glands (lymphoglandulte linguales) lie between tlie genio-hyo-giossi muscles and, on the outer surfaces of the hyo-giossus and genio-hyo-glossus muscles, under cover of the mylo-hyoid; they receive afferent vessels from the floor of the mouth and the anterior part of the tongue. Their efferents .terminate in the upper deep cervical glands. The lymphatic glands of the neck include:— The superficial cervical lymphatic glands (lymphoglandulte cervicales super- ficiales). These lie on or are embedded in the deep fascia along the course of the external jugular vein, superficial to the sterno-mastoid and along its posterior border. They receive afferent vessels from the superficial tissues of the neck, the occipital, the mastoid, the superficial parotid, and the submaxillary lymphatic glands. Their efferent vessels terminate in the upper and the lower deep cervical glands. The submaxillary lymphatic glands (lymphoglanduhe submaxillares) are in the submaxillary triangle and in relation with the superficial and deep surfaces of the submaxillary gland. Those which are more superficially situated receive afferent vessels from the superficial part of the nose and from the front and lower part of the face, including the upper lip and the outer part of the lower lip, whilst the afferents of the more deeply situated glands are derived from the floor of the mouth, the anterior part of the tongue, and from the sulilingual and submaxillary salivary glands. The efferent vessels open partly into the superficial and partly into the upper deep cervical glands. The supra-hyoid glands, usually two or three in number, lie beneath the chin on the surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle and between the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles. They receive afferent vessels from tlie lower lip and the chin, and their efferents terminate in the superficial, and in the upper deep cervical glands. The post-pharyngeal glands lie beliind the upper part of the pharynx in front of the upper two cervical vertebrse. They receive afferents from the pharynx, the prevertebral muscles and fascia, and the posterior part of the nose. Their efferents open into the upper deep cervical glands. The pre-laryngeal glands are very variable, but occasionally one or two small glands are found in front of the lower part of the larynx, between the crico-thyroid muscles. They receive afferent vessels from the lower part of the larynx, the upper part of the trachea, and the thyroid body. Their efferents terminate in the upper deep cervical glands. The pre-tracheal glands are usually of small size. They lie on the anterior 55