1053 THE PEEITONEUM. The transverse tracing at the level of the foramen of Winslow is shown in Fig. 708, A, and can be easily followed without any further description than is there given. 'file following additional details may be mentioned :—The small sac is divided liy a constric- tion into two parts—an uppei', lying behind the lesser omentum and Spigelian lobe, and a lower, jilaced behind the stomach and within the great omentum. The constriction is due to the passage of the coronary and hepatic arteries forward around tlie sac; the former winds round its left side, tlie latter round its right; and each raises up a fold of peritoneum, which projects strongly into the sac, and partially divides it into two. This can be shown by cutting the lesser omentum along the lesser curvature of the stomach and looking into the cavity. Where tlie small sac runs up behind the Sjiigelian lobe, it forms, as pointed out at page 1065, Top of small sac Inferior vena cava Lesser omentum (cut) Eight lateral ligament of liver Left lateral ligament of liver / Oisopliageal opening in diaphragm / Gastro-phrenic ligament responds to ' micovered area' of stomach Gastro-splenio omentum (cut) Transverse colon crossing duodenum Head of pancreas Great omentum (cut) Part of small sac i'lireno colic ligament Left end of transverse mesocolon Splenic flexure of colon Transverse mesocolon (cut) Hoot of mesentery (cut) Pig. 710.—The Peritoneal Relations of the Duodenum, Pancreas, Spleen, Kidneys, etc. the left boundary of the uncovered area of the right lobe, and, consequently, a third or left layer of the coronary ligament. A sf)ecial diverticulum of the small sac runs out to tlie right, behind the beginning of the duodenum, to clothe the back of tliat tube for about an inch (Fig. 710). The splenic artery reaches the spleen by ])assing to tlie left, behind the posterior layei' of the small sac, which also extends to that organ (Fig. 709, A). The lesser omentum is described at page 1066; it need only be pointed out now that it is composed of two layers, the anterior derived from the great sac, and the posterior from tlie small sac, both of which are extremely thin—some- times even criliriform. The great omentum is a large apron-like fold of peritoneum, usually more or less loaded with fat, which is suspended from the great curvature of the stomach,