172 OSTEOLOGY. ethmoidal cells, and the antrum, respectively, are all thin. The cavity of the maxillary sinus lying to the outer side of the nasal fosste is well seen. Its roof, wliich separates it from the orbital cavity, is thin and traversed by the infraorbital canal. Its inner wall, with which the inferior turbinal articulates, is very slender, and forms the outer walls of both the middle and inferior meatuses of the nose. Its outer wall is stouter where it arches up to bracket the zygomatic or malar process. Its floor, which rests upon the upper surface of the alveolar border of the upper jaw, sinlfs below the level of the hard palate. The fangs of the teeth sometimes project into the floor of the cavity. The nasal fossse are narrow above, where they lie between the orbital cavities, from which they are separated by the cells within the lateral mass of the ethmoid. The roof which corresponds to the cribriform plate is narrow, and lies between the septum mesially and the lateral masses on either side. At the level of the orbital floor the nasal fossas expand laterally, the middle meatus running longitudinally in the angle formed by the lateral mass of the ethmoid with the body of the superior maxilla, overhung by the middle turbinated bone. This channel is seen to have the ethmoidal cells superior to it, the orbital cavity above and to the outer side, the antrum externally, whilst its floor is formed by the upper surface of the inferior turbinated bone. The inferior meatus, much more roomy, runs along under cover of the inferior turbinated bone. Externally it is related to the antrum, whilst its floor is formed by the concave superior surface of the hard palate. The hard palate is arched below, whilst its superior surface is concave upwards on either side of the median crest which supports the nasal septum. The sides of the arch below correspond to the inner surfaces of the alveolar processes and fall in line with the outer walls of the nasal fossae superiorly. The summit of the arch lies a quarter of an inch above the level of the floor of the antrum. SEXUAL DIFFERENCES IN THE SKULL. Whilst it is a matter of difficulty, in all cases, to determine with certainty the sex of a skull, the following points of difference are usually fairly characteristic. The female skull is, as a rule, smaller than the male. In point of cranial capacity it averages about a tenth less than the male of corresponding race. It is lighter, smoother as regards the develop- ment of its muscular ridges, and possesses less pi'ominent mastoid processes. In the frontal region, the superciliary ridges are less pronounced, and this imparts a thinness and sharp- ness to the upper orbital margin, which is fairly characteristic, and can best be appre- ciated by running the finger along that edge of bone. For the same reason, the forehead appears more vertical and the projections of the frontal eminences more outstanding, though it is stated that the frontal and occipital regions are less capacious proportionately than in the male. The vertex in the female is said to be more flattened, and the height of the skull consequently somewhat reduced. In man the edge of the tympanic plate is generally sharp, and divides to form the sheath of the styloid process, whilst in the female the corresponding border is stated to be rounder and more tubercular. Whilst it is true that no one of these differences is sufficiently characteristic to enable us to pronounce with certainty on the matter of sex, it is the case that, taken together, they usually justify us in arriving at a conclusion which, as a rule, may be regarded as fairly accurate. In some instances, however, it is impossible to express any definite opinion. DIFFERENCES DUE TO AGE. At birth the face is proportionately small as compared with the cranium, constituting about one-eighth of the bulk of the latter. In the adult the face equals at least half the cranium. About the age of puberty the development and expansion of some of the air- sinuses, more particulaidy the frontal sinus, lead to characteristic differences in head and face form. The eruption of the teeth in early life and adolescence enables us to determine the age with fair accuracy. After the completion of the permanent dentition, the wear of the teeth may assist us in hazarding an approximate statement. The condition of the sutures, too, may guide us, synostosis of the coronal and sagittal sutures not as a rule taking place till late in life. Complete obliteration of the synchondrosis between the occipital bone and sphenoid may be regarded as an indication of maturity. In old age the skull usually becomes lighter and the cranial bones thinner. The alveolar borders of the