THE FEONT OF THE THIGH. 1213 are made by stretching a tape from it to the tip of one or other of the malleoH, care l)eing taken that the pelvis is horizontal, and the limbs in corresponding positions. The pubic spine is felt under the upper and outer part of the mons Veneris and at a corresponding point in the male; between the spine and tlie symphysis is the crest of the pubis, the two crests together forming a rounded subcutaneous bony ridge. A line extending from the pubic spine horizontally outwards across the front of the thigh crosses the front of the hip-joint at the level of the lower part of the head of the femur. The cord-like tendon of the adductor longus is readily felt, and a point about 1 in. below the pubic spine is selected for performing the operation of subcutaneous tenotomy of the tendon. The centre of the saphenous opening is situated 1^ in. below and external to the pubic spine; it overlies the inner (hernial) and middle (venous) com- partments of tlie femoral sheath; behind the outer border of the opening is the arterial compartment of the sheath; crossing over the lower border is the termina- tion of the long saphenous vein. A femoral hernia makes its way into the thigh beneath the upper edge of the opening. The course of the long saphenous vein in the thigh is indicated by a line extending from the adductor tubercle of the internal condyle of the femur to the lower part of the saphenous opening. The horizontal or inguinal chain of lymphatic glands can usually be felt along, and a little below, the line of I'oupart's ligament; when the glands are inflamed the surgeon should not neglect to examine the Inittocks and anus as well as the external genitals. The vertical or femoral chain lies in close relation to the upper end of the long saphenous vein. Deeper glands also are met with beneath the cribriform fascia, close to the inner side of the femoral vein, and there is generally one in the crural canal. To clear out the glands in the groin an incision should be made parallel to, and a finger's breadth below, the whole length of Poupart's ligament. To map out the course of the femoral artery, the thigh being slightly flexed and rotated outwards, draw a line from the mid-point between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis to the adductor tubercle at the upper and back part of the internal condyle; rather less than the upper third of this line corre- sponds to the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle, while rather more than its middle third corresponds to the artery as it lies in Hunter's canal. The seat of election for ligature of the vessel is at the apex of Scarpa's triangle. To compress the common femoral, pressure should be made directly backwards against the pubic eminence, and not against the head of the femur; to compress the femoral in Hunter's canal, pressure should be made outwards against the inner surface of the shaft of the femur. On the outer aspect of the thigh the fascia lata is thick, aponeurotic, and loosely attached to the vastus externus; hence the tendency of abscesses to travel downwards beneath it towards the knee. The sartorius, which forms the most im- portant muscular landmark of the thigh, may be thr(jwn into prominence by main- taining the thigh unsupported, flexed, and slightly rotated outwards. Observe that in the upper third of the thigh it forms the outer boundary of Scarpa's triangle ; in the middle third it is placed over Hunter's canal; while in the lower third it lies in front of the inner hamstrings. External and adjacent to the upper part of the sartorius is the prominence of the tensor fasciae femoris, which, as it descends, diverges from the sartorius; in the angle between the two the tendon of the rectus may be felt as it overlies the lower part of the anterior aspect of the capsule of the hip-joint. The inner aspect of tlie lower lialt' of tlie shaft of the femur may lie conveniently cut down ajion through the vastus, internus, where it comes to the surface between the sartorius and rectus muscles ; the incision should be made in the direction of a line extending from a point midway between the inner Ijorder of the patella and the adductor tuljercle, to t.he anterior superior iliac spine. The front of the hip-joint may lie reached through an incision downwards from the anterior sujierior iliac spine, either along the inner or the outer lioi-der of the sartorius ; in the former case the deeper part of the dissection passes between the iliarus and the inner liuidei' of the rectus, while in the latter case the joint is reached external to the rectus tendon, between it and the anterior Ijorders of the gluteus medius and minimus nuiscles. The ascending liranch of the external circumflex artery crosses the caj^sule parallel to, and immediately above, the anterior