DEVELOPMENT OF THE VEINS. 885 Lateral sinus External jugular vein Internal jugular vein Subclavian vein Transverse anastoinosis Ldwer part of iiriniitive jugular vein' Duct of Cuvier Cardinal vein Transverse anastomosis Vena revehens Liver Vena adveliens Umbilical vein sides of the duodenum. Three transverse anastomoses soon form between them, of which the lower and the upper are in front of and the middle is behind the duodenum ; thus two vascular circles are formed round that portion of the gut. Whilst the loops are being formed the liver grows rapidly, and it interrupts the direct connexion of the vitelline veins with the heart. When the upper vascular loop is established the two vitelline veins, which appear to be prolonged from its sides, enter the liver and break up into capillaries, from which two new vessels arise which carry the blood on to the sinus venosus. The veins which carry the blood to the liver are now known as the venae advehentes; they become the right and left divisions of the portal vein. The vessels which carry the blood to the sinus venosus are the venae revehentes, arid they become the hepatic veins. From the inferior part of the lower venous circle the vitelline veins fuse into a common stem which receives the veins from the abdominal portion of the gut and becomes the .commencement of the portal vein. The remainder of the portal vein is formed by the transverse com- munications previously described, together with the left half of the lower and the right half of the upper circle ; the opposite halves of these circles disappear. Thus a continuous single stem is formed, which, after the disappearance of the yolk-sac, receives blood from the abdominal part of the alimentary canal, and terminates above in the liver. The allantoic or umbilical veins com- mence in the placenta and fuse into a single stem which traverses the umbilical cord to reach the embryo, and divides at the umbilicus into right and left divisions. The two veins then pass through the septum transversum, one to the right and the other to the left, and open into the sinus venosus. After a very short period the communications with the sinus are obliterated, and both veins end in the venous capillaries of the liver, the blood they convey now passing to the sinus venosus by the hepatic veins. This con- dition also is only transitory, for the right vein soon undergoes complete atrophy and disappears, whilst the left- opens into the upper loop of the vitelline veins. In the meantime, however, another channel, the ductus venosus, has been developed, which passes directly from the upper loop of the vitelline veins, or rather from the left vena advehens to the right hepatic vein, and by this channel the greater part of the placental blood passes to the heart without traversing the liver substance. Some of the placental blood, however, goes to the liver by the left vena advehens. Finally the left vena revehens loses its connexion with the sinus venosus and opens into the right vena revehens. The left umbilical vein and the ductus venosus remain pervious until birth, when the placental circulation ceases. The two vessels then rapidly atrophy, and are subsequently represented by fibrous cords, of which that formed from the left umbilical vein is known as the round ligament of the liver. The pi'imitive jugular and cardinal veins, and the ducts of Cuvier, which constitute the main veins of the Wolffian body and of the body wall, head, neck, and limbs of the embryo, are represented in the adult by the external jugular veins, the whole of the right and part stem formed by fused vitelline veins Renal vein Fig. 604.- Transverse anastomosis External iliac vein -Development of the Venous System (Diagrammatic). Stage II.—The vitelline and umbilical veins terminate in the liver, and transverse anastomoses have formed between the vitelline, cardinal, and primitive jugular veins of opposite sides.