THE SKIN Oli INTECIUAIENT. 727 It was formerly thought that the nerve fibrils were directly continuous with the central ends of the gustatory cells, but this view is no longer entertained. The ducts of Ebner's glands open into the bottom of the valleys surrounding the papillae vallatiB, and the serous-like secretion of these glands probably washes the free hair-like extremities of the gustatory cells, and so renders them ready to be stimulated by successive substances. It should l)e added that there is a close association between the senses of smell and taste. This can be best appreciated by considering the defective taste perceptions resulting from inflammatory conditions of the nasal mucous membrane or the common practice of holding the nose in order to minimise the taste of nauseous drugs. Duct of sweat gland H 1 (' - - " y? Papi Sebaceous glands Erei-tor muscle III 1 Hair follicle. Glonierulu; (if sweat -^J THE SKIN OR INTEGUMENT. ORGANS OF TOUCH. The Skin. The skin (integumentum commune) covers the body, and is continuous, at the orifices on its surface, with the mucous lining of its alimentary and other canals. It contains the peripheral terminations of the sensory nerves, and serves as an organ of protection to the deeper tissues. It is the chief factor in the regulation of the body temperature, and by means of the sweat and sebaceous glands, which open on its free surface, constitutes an important excretory striicture. Its superficial layers are modified to form appendages in the shape of hairs and nails. The superficial area of the skin averages about one and a-half square metres, whilst its thickness varies from 0"5 to 4 mm., being greatest on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, and on the back of the neck and shoulders, and least on the eyelids and penis. It is very elastic and resistant, and its colour, determined partly by its own pigment and partly by that of the blood, is deeper on exposed parts and in the regions of the genitals, axillae, and mam- mary areolse, than elsewhere. The colour also varies with race and age, the different races of the world Ijeing roughly classified, according to the colour of their skin, into the three groups of white, yellow, and black Pinkish iu colour in childhof)d, the Papilla of liair Oblique section through a Pacinian corpuscle Fi(!. 536.—Veht:cal Section of the Skin (schematic^