THE EETINA. 691 molecular layer, it may be in one stratum (stratified spongioblasts) or in several strata (diffuse spongioblasts). 5. Outer molecular or outer plexiform layer.—This is constituted by the. Fig. 500.—Perpendicular Sections of Mammalian Retina (Cajal). A, Layer of rods and cones ; B, Outer nuclear layer ; C, Outer molecular layer ; D, Inner nuclear layer ; E, Inner molecular layer ; P, Ganglionic layer ; G, Stratum opticum ; r, rods ; c, cones, r.g, rod granules ; eg, cone granules ; r.b, rod bipolars ; c.h, cone bipolars ; c.r, contact of rod l^ipolars with the spherules of the rod fibres ; c.c, contact of cone bipolars with the branches of the cone fibres ; ar, internal arborisation of cone bipolars ; ar', internal arborisation of rod bipolars ; c.n, centrifugal nerve fibre ; /(, horizontal cells ; s.s, stratified spongioblasts ; (Ls, difi'use spongioblasts ; s.g, stratified ganglion cell ; IVI, Sustentacnlar fibre of MuUer. interlacement of the dendrites of the bipolar and horizontal cells, just described, with the spherules of the rod fibres and the ramifications of the foot plates of the cone fil)res. It is divided into two strata : {a) external, indicating the contact of the rod bipolars with the spherules of the rod fibres ; {b) internal, the line of contact between the cone bipolars and the branches of the cone fibi'cs. 6. Outer nuclear layer or layer of outer granules. —This is made up of clear granules somewhat resembling those of the inner nviclear layer, but divisible into two kinds ; (a) cone granules, (6) rod granules. The cone granules are the larger, and each contains an oval nucleus ; they lie im- mediately inside the outer limiting membrane, through which they are continuous with the cones of the next layer. Each is prolonged internally as a straight fibre, which, on reaching the outer molecular layer, expands to form a foot-plate, from which several horizontal fibrils are given off. The rod granules are far more numerous than the cone granules, and each contains a small oval nucleus, which is transversely striated. Their outer processes are continuous, through the outer limiting membrane, with the rods of the next layer : while their inner processes pass into the outer molecular layer and end in free, unbranched spherules amongst the arborisations of the rod bipolars. 7. Layer of rods and cones.—This consists of two sets of structures, viz. rods and cones. Except at the macula lutea the rods are far nioi'e numerous than the cones and assume the form of elongated cylinders, while the cones are shorter than the rods and taper externally to fine points. Each rod and cone consists of two segments—inner and outer. The inner segment of the rod only slightly exceeds in diameter its outer segment, Avhereas the inner segment of the cone greatly exceeds its outer part. The inner segments of both rods and cones have an affinity for staining reagents and consist of a basal homogeneous portion and an outer longitudinallj'-striated part, the proportion of the latter to the former being greater in the cones than in the rods. The outer segments have not the same affinity for reagents, but tend to break transversely into numerous discs (Fig. 501, B). The colouring matter. A Fig. 501. A, A cone and two rods from the human retina (modified from Max Schultze) ; B, Outer part of rod separated into discs.