415 CEREBROSPINAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. the nerves which pervade every part of the body. They also constitute the greater part of the brain and spinal cord. Nerve-fibres are the conducting elements of the nervous system which serve to bring the nerve-cells into relation both with each other and with the various tissues of the body. There are different varieties of nerve-fibres, but in all, the leading and essential constituent is a delicate thread-like band, termed the axis cylinder. The difference between individual fibres depends upon the fact that in some cases the axis cylinder becomes invested by one or two coats, whilst in other cases it remains naked. When the axis cylinder is coated on the outside by a more or less thick sheath of a fatty substance termed myelin, it is said to be a myelinated or medullated fibre. When the coating of myelin is absent, the fibre is termed a non-myelinated or a non-meduUated fibre. A second sheath—thin, delicate, and membranous, and placed externally—may also be present in both cases. It is termed the primitive sheath or the neurolemma. From a structural point of view, therefore, four different forms of j^^-^ nerve-fibre may be recognised:— ^cylinder uon 1 n i jfl- Naked axis cylmders. ■medunated-^ o a • r j -t-v. 12. Axis cylmders with pr rimitive sheaths. Primitive sheath absent. Myelin Primitive medullated-f^ -r, . . . i . ^^4. rnmitive sheath present. Every nerve-fibre near its origin and as it approaches its termina- tion is unprovided with sheaths of any kind, and is simply repre- sented by a non-medullated naked axis cylinder. The fibres of the olfactory nerves afford us an example of non-medullated fibres furnished with a primitive sheath. Medullated fibres are present in greater quantity in the cerebro- spinal system than non-medullated fibres. Thus all the nerves attached to the brain and cord, with the exception of the olfactory and optic, are formed of medullated fibres provided with a primitive sheath; whilst the entire mass of the white substance of the brain and cord, and also the optic nerves, are formed of medullated fibres devoid of a primitive sheath. It is important to note that the distinction between the medullated and non-medullated fibres is not one which exists throughout all stages of development. As will be presently pointed out, every fibre is_a direct outgrowth from a cell, and in the first instance"liorie~are . provided with a medullary sheath^ Iiideed, it^ hot iintir about the fifth month of foetal life that those fibres which are to form the white substance of the cerebrospinal axis begin to acquire their coating of ) myelin. Further, this coating appears in the fibres of different ^trands or tracts at different periods, and a knowledge of this fact has ^nabled the anatomist to follow out the connexions of the tracts of fibres which compose the white matter of the brain and cord. ^ But it may be asked: How does a nerve-fibre arise and how does fig. 308. it end? Every fibrejs directly continuous by one extremity with a Nerve-fibre nerve-cell, whilst its opposite extremity breaks up into a number of ramifications, all of which end freely in relation to another nerve-cell, or in relation to certain tissues of tlie body, as, for example, to muscle- fibres or to the epithelial cells of the epidermis. The length of nerve-fibres, therefore, varies very greatly. Some iibres are so short as merely to bring two neighbouring nerve-cells into relatioil with each other: others travel long distances. Thus a fibre arising from one of the motor cells of the lower end of the spinal cord may, after leaving the cord, extend to the most outlying muscle in the sole of the foot before it reaches its destination. But even when a fibre does not leave the central axis a great length may be attained, and cells situated in the motor area of the cortex of the cerebrum may give origin to fibres which pass down to the lower end of the cord. Physiologists classify the fibres which form the nerves into two sets, afferent and efferent. Afferent nerve-fibres conduct the impulse of impressions from the