704 THE ORGANS OF SENSE. meatus, and are filled by llbrous tissue. In the outer part of the meatus, the cartilage forms about three-fourths of its circumference ; but, on passing inwards, the propor- tion of cartilage to fibrous tissue diminishes, with the result that near the inner end of the pars cartilaginea the cartilage forms merely a part of the anterior and lower boundaries of the canal. The osseous portion (])ar,s ossea) of the meatus is described on ji. 113; but it may be well to state liere that in the newlv-lxirn child it is represented only by an incomplete ring of bone, the annulus tympanicus, together with a small portion of the squamous temjjoral, which articulates with, and bridges over the interval between, the extremities of the ring su])eriorly. In the concavity of the annulus is a well-detined groove, the sulcus tympanicus, in which the circumference of the membrana tympani is fixed. A fibrous plate, the tympanic fibrous plate (Symington), intervenes between the annulus tympanicus and the inner end of the cartilage of the meatus, and into this jjlate the bony ring extends. The bony outgrowth does not, however, proceed uniformly throughout its circumference, but occurs most rapidly in the anterior and posterior j.iarts of the ring. These outgrowths fuse about the end of the second year of life, so as to surround a foramen in the floor of the meatus (foramen of Huschke), which is usually closed by the fifteenth year, l)ut persists until adult life in some 19 per cent, of skulls. The lumen of the meatus in the newly-born child is extremely small : its outer part is funnel- shaped ; its inner a mere slit, bounded below by the tympanic fibrous jjlate and above by the obliquely-jdaced mendu'ana tym])ani. The skin which envelopes the pinna lines the entire meatus, and covers also the outer surface of the tympanic membrane. It is thick in the pars cartilaginea and contains tine hairs and sebaceous glands, the latter extending inwards for some dis- tance along the postero-superior wall of the pars ossea. The sweat glands are enlarged and of a brownish colour; they constitute the glandulse ceruminosae and secrete the ear wax or cerumen. Vascular and Nervous Supply of the Meatus.—The meatus receives its blood-supply iiom the posterior auricular and su])erficial temporal arteries, and also from the deep auricular branch of the internal nuixillary artery, the last distribut ing some minute branches to the membrana tympani. The veins ojjen into the external jugular and internal maxillary veins, and also into the pterygoid plexus, while the lymphatics have a similar mode of termination to those of the pinna. Sensory nerves ai'e sujjplied to the meatus ))y the aiu-iculo-temporal branch of the fifth and by the auricular liranch of tlie \'agus. MIDDLE EAR OR TYMPANIC CAVITY. The tympanic cavity (cavum tympani) is a small air chamber in the temporal bone, intervening between the inner end of the external auditory jueatus and the outer wall of the internal ear or labyrinth (Figs. 513, 514). Lined by mucous membrane, it contains a chain of ossicles (ossicula auditus), which reaches from its otiter to its inner wall, and by means of which the vibrations of the membrana tympani are transmitted across the cavity to the internal ear. Attached to the ossicles are several ligaments, together with a pair of small muscles, while certain nerves are either distributed to the cavity or pass through it. The tympanic cavity consists of two portions: (1) The tympanum proper, or atrium, lying immediately to the inner aspect of the membrana tympani; and (2) the recessus epitympanicus, or aditus ad antrum, lying above the level of the mem- brane and containing the greater part of the incus and the upper half of the malleus. Including this recess, the vertical and antero-posterior diameters of the tympanic cavity are rather more than half an inch (15 mm.). The distance between its outer and inner walls is about 6 mm. above and 4 mm. below, while at its central part, owing to the bulging of the two walls towards the cavity, it measures only from 1^ to 2 mm. The tympanic cavity presents for examination a roof, a floor, and four walls, viz. anterior, posterior, external, and internal. The roof (Fig. 515) (paries tegmentalis) is formed by a thin plate of bone, the tegmen tympani, constituting a portion of the upper surface of the petrous-temporal. It extends backwards so as to cover in the mastoid antrum, and forwards, to form the roof of the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. It separates the tympanum and antrum from the cranial cavity and may contain a few air-cells, whilst occasion- ally it is partly deficient. In the child, its outer edge corresponds witli the petro-