809 BEANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. lu the first part of its course in the perineum the artery lies in the outer fascial wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, where it is enclosed in the space known as Alcock's canal. This, which is situated about one and a half inches above the lower margin of the tuljerosity of the ischium, contains also the pudic veins and the terminal parts of the pudic nerve, viz. the dorsal nerve of the penis which lies al)0ve the artery, and the perineal division which lies below the vessel. From the ischio-rectal fossa the internal pudic is continued forwards between the two layers of the triangular ligament of the urethra, and close to the ramus of the pubis. About half-an-inch Ijelow the sub - pubic ligament it turns somewliat al)ruptly forwards, pierces tlie anterior layer of the triangular ligament, and immediately divides into its terminal branches, viz. the artery of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the penis. The division sometimes takes place whilst the artery is still between the layers of the triangular ligament. Branches.—In the jjelvis it gives small branches to tlie neighbouring muscles and to tlie roots of the sacral plexus. In the buttock. — (a) Muscular branches are given to the adjacent muscles. {!>) Anastomotic branches unite with branches of the gluteal sciatic and internal circumflex arteries. In the ischio-rectal fossa.—(r) The inferior hsemorrhoidal artery (a. hajmorrhoidalis inferior) pierces the inner wall of Alcock's canal, and runs obliquely forwards and inwards. It soon divides into two or three main branches, which, sometimes arising separately, pass across the space to the lower pai't of the rectum. The artery anasto- moses in the walls of the rectum with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the middle and superior hemorrhoidal arteries ; it also anastomoses with the transverse periiieal arteries, and it supplies cutaneous twigs to the region of the anus, and others which turn round the lower border of the gluteus maxinuis to supply the lower part of the buttock. (d) The superficial perineal artery (a. perinei) arises in the anterior part of the ischio- rectal fossa, pierces the base of the triangular ligament, and divides into long slender branches (aa. scrotales posteriores in the male, labiales posteriores in the female) which are continued forwards in the tu-ethral triangle, beneath the superficial perineal fascia, to the scrotum. It anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, with the transverse perineal and the external pudic arteries, and it supplies the muscles and subcutaneous structures of the urethral triangle. (e) The transverse perineal artery is a small branch which arises either from the internal pudic or from its superficial perineal branch. It runs inwards along the base of the triangular ligament to the central point of the perineum, where it anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, with the superficial perineal branch, and with the inferior luemorrhoidal arteries. It supplies the sphincter ani, the bulbo-cavernosus or sphincter vaginse, and the anterior fibres of the levator ani. In the urethral triangle.—(/) The artery to the bulb (a. bulbi urethrje), a l)ranch which is usually of relatively large size, is given oft' between the layers of the triangular ligament. It runs transversely inwards along the posterior border of the compressor urethrte, and then turning forwards a short distance from the outer side of the urethra, it pierces the anterior layer of the triangular ligament and enters the substance of the bull). It passes onwards in the corpus spongiosum to the glans, where it anastomoses with its fellow and with the dorsal arteries of the penis. It supplies the compressor urethrte muscle, Cowper's gland, the corpus spongiosum, and the penile part of the urethra. In the female this artery supplies the bulb of the vestibule. {g) The artery of the corpus cavernosum (a. profunda penis in the male ; a. pro- funda clitoridis in the female) is usually the larger of the two terminal l)ranches. Immediately after its origin it enters the crus penis, and runs forwards in the corpus cavernosum, which it supplies. (A) The dorsal artery of the penis (a. dorsalis penis in the male ; a. dorsalis clitoridis in the female) passes forwards between the layers of the suspensory ligament, and runs along the dorsal surface of the penis with the dorsal nerve immediately to its outer side, whilst it is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the single dorsal vein. It supplies the superficial tissues on the dorsal aspect of the penis, sends branches into the corpus cavernosum to anastomose with the arteiy to the corpus cavernosum, and its terminal branches enter the glans jjenis, where they anastomose with the arteries to the bulb. It also anastomoses with the external pudic branches of the femoral.