OSTEOLOGY. 162 The line indicates the direction of the carotid canal, and cuts tlie foramen lacerum medium anteriorly ; in front of tliis it usually corresponds to the position of the posterior aperture of the pterygo-palatine canal. The examination of the base of the skull is incomplete unless the student examines it with the lower jaw and atlas vertebra in position. The relation of the ramus of the lower jaw to the zygomatic fossa has been already sufficiently studied (p. 153); one or two points, however, may be emphasised. The alar spine of the sphenoid lies just internal to the condyle of the jaw when that structure is in position in the articular part of the glenoid fossa, and it is noteworthy that immediately to the inner side of the alar spine is the commencement of the osseous Eustachian tube. The root of the styloid process occupies the centre of the interval between the mandibular ramus and the front of the mastoid process. Anteriorly the arcade formed by the body of the lower jaw adds greatly to the depth of the hard palate. In this space are lodged the tongue and the structures which form the floor of the mouth. The inner surface of each side of the body of the mandible is traversed by the internal oblique line (linea mylo-hyoidea), which commences posteriorly just behind the root of the last molar tooth and runs down- wards and forwards towards the symphysis in front. When the atlas vertebra is in articulation with the occipital bone it is well to recognise the relation of its transverse processes to the surrounding structures. The extremities of these processes lie in line with the ends of the jugular processes of the occipital bone, and thus come to be placed just internal to and immediately below and slightly in front of the tips of the mastoid processes. They can thus be easily felt in the living. Anteriorly they are separated by a short interval from the styloid processes, and the stylo-mastoid foramina lie immediately in front and slightly to the outer side of their extremities. The student will note that there is no hole in the jugular process of the occipital bone corresx^onding to the arterial foramen in the transverse process of the atlas through which the vertebral artery passes. The course of this vessel over the upper surface of the posterior arch behind the superior articular processes of the atlas will be seen to coincide with the posterior condylic foss;e and the margins of the foramen magnum immediately internal thereto, where a slight grooving of the edge often indicates the course of the artery. In front, the anterior tubercle of the atlas falls in line with the pharyngeal tubercle on the under surface of the basioccipital, and the student must not overlook the fact that the anterior surface of the cervical column does not coincide with the anterior margin of the foramen magnum, but lies nearly half an inch in front of that, in a coronal plane passing immediately in front of the external auditory meatus. Behind, the upper surface of the posterior arch of the atlas overlaps the hinder margin of the foramen magnum, and it is by the apposition of these two surfaces that extension is checked at the occipito-atlantal articulation. THE SKULL IN SECTION. By the removal of the skull-cap the interior of the cranial cavity is expo.sed. The deep surface of the cranial vault is grooved mesially for the superior longitudinal sinus, on either side of which are seen numerous depressions for the lodgment of Pacchionian bodies. On holding the bone up to the light, the floor of these little hollows is oftentimes seen to be very thin. A short distance in front of the lambda, and on either side of the sagittal suture, are the internal openings of the parietal foramina. The inner tables of the frontal and parietal bones are grooved for the meningeal arteries. The principal branch of the middle meningeal runs more or less parallel to and at a variable distance behind the line of the coronal suture. Along the bottom of these grooves small foramina may be seen for the passage of nutrient arteries to the bone, and the floor of the longitudinal sinus is likewise pierced by small apertures for the transmission of veins. The Upper Surface of the Base of the Skull. Cranial Fossae.—The upper surface of the base of the skull is divided into