700 THE OKGANS OF SENSE. EXTEKNAL EAE. Tympanic cavity, with cliaiii of os.sicles Seiiiieiicular canal Utricle Ductus endolymphaticu.s i | Saccule Cochlea The external ear ^ includes—(«■) the pinna or auricula, attached to and projecting from the side of the head ; and (6) the passage or external auditory meatus (meatus acusticus ex ternus), lead- in"- inwards from the O most depressed part of the pinna as far as the tympanic membrane or outer wall of the middle ear. The Pinna. Tlie pinna or auricula ^ (Fig. 510) presents two surfaces, outer and inner, the latter forming an angle (cephalo-auricular angle) of about 30°, opening backwards, with tlie side of the head. The outer surl'ace is irregularly concave, but presents several well - marked eleviitions and depressions. The deepest of the depressions is situated near its middle, and is named the concha (concha auriculae). It is divided by an almost transverse ridge, the crus helicis, into an upper, smaller, and a lower, larger portion : the former is termed the cymba conchas; the latter, which leads into the meatus, the cavum conchse. Anteriorly, the crus helicis is con- tinuous with the margin of the pinna or helix, which is folded over, in the greater part of its extent, like the rim of a hat, and is directed at first upwards, and then backwards and downwards, to become gradually lost a little below the middle of the pinna. Where tbe helix begins to turn down- wards a small tubercle, the tuber- culum superius (Darwini), is often seen ; it will be again referred to. In front of the descending part of the helix is a second elevation, the antihelix. Single below, this Eustachian tube Mcmbiana tyinpani Recessus epitynipanicus External auditory meatus Fig. 509.—Diagrammatic View of the Organ ok Heauikg. Crus antihelici superior y;"itw Fossa triancularis —Lsslk Crus antihelitis inferior Cyniba concha; Crus helicis Tragus Incisura intertrapfica Antitragus ijobulK Fig. 510.- -View ok Outer Surface of Left Pinna (half natural size). divides superiorly into two limbs, termed the crura antihelicis, between which is a triangular depression, the fossa of the antihelix, or fossa triangularis. The elongated furrow between the helix and antihelix is named the fossa of the helix or scapha. The concavity of the concha is overlapped in front by a tongue-like process, the tragus, and behind by a triangular projection, the antitragus. The notch, directed downwards and forwards between these two processes, is named the incisura intertragica. Tlie trtigus really consists of two tubercles, the upper of which constitutes the tuberculum supratragicum of His, and is separated from the helix by a groove, the sulcus auris anterior. The lobule (lobulus auriculae) is • Althougli it is usual to sjicak of the external, middle, and iutenial ear, it would be more correct to use tlie terms external, iiiiddli', and internal ^o)'/iq?;s of the ear.