THE EIGHTH OE AUDITOEY NERVE. 647 between the lower lip and chin, and supplies the depressor anguli oris, depressor labii inferioris, and orbicularis oris. It communicates with the mental l^ranch of the inferior dental nerve. " 3. The infra-mandibular branch emerges from the parotid gland near its lower end, and sweeps forwards below the angle of the jaw to the front of the neck. It supplies the platysma myoides, and forms loops of communication with the super- ficial cervical nerve from the cervical plexus. The Eighth or Auditory Nerve. The auditory nerve (n. acusticus) arises from the brain by two roots, mesial and lateral. The mesial root (radix vestibularis) emerges between the olive and the restiform body. The lateral root (radix cochlearis), continuous through the cochlear nucleus with the striae acusticaj of the fourth ventricle, winds round the outer side of the restiform body (for deep connexions, see p. 480). The two roots become incorporated to form the trunk of tbe nerve, which is attached to the brain on the outer side of the facial nerve and pars intermedia at the posterior border of the pons Varolii (Fig. 452, p. 633). The nerve extends outwards through the internal auditory meatus, lying beneath the facial nerve and pars intermedia (Fig. 457, p. 636). In the meatus its two com- ponent parts separate from „o.ne another, forming a superior pxj vestibular trunk continuous with the ife^ial root, and an inferior or eeehlear trunk continuous with the lateral root. These trunks again sub- divide, and piercing the lamina cribrosa, supply the several parts of the labyrinth. The su^erier or vestibular trunk (n. vestibuli) iii the internal auditory meatus usually receives fibres from the imrs intermedia, and gives off a communicat- ing liranch to the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. It^en separates into three terminal branches which pierce the lamina cribrosa and supply (1) the macula acustica of the utricle, and the ampullar of (2) the superior and (3) ex- ternal semicircular canals. The inferior or cochlear trunk (n. cochlese) gives off branches (1) to the macula acustica of the saccule, (2) to the ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal, and (3) is continued through the lamina cribrosa to the labyrinth as the cochlear nerve, which is distributed through the modiolus and osseous spiral lamina to the organ of Corti in the cochlea. Both the vestibular and cochlear nerves contain among their fibres collections of nerve cells, forming in each nerve a distinct ganglion—the vestibular ganglion (g. vesti- bulare) on the vestibular trunk, and the spiral ganglion of the cochlea (g. spii-ale) on the cochlear trunk. Tfts Ninth or Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve (n. glosso-pharyngeus) (Fig. 452, p. 633) arises from the brain by five or six fine radicles which emerge from the medulla oblongata between the olive and the restiform body, close to the facial nerve above, and in series with the roots of the pneumogastric nerve below (for deep connexions, see p. 478). The rootlets combine to form a nerve which extends outwards to the jugular foramen, through which it passes, along with the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves, but enveloped in a separate sheath of dura mater (Fig. 457, p. 636). Eeaching the neck, the nerve arches downwards and forwards to the interval between the hyoid bone and the lower jaw. It lies at first between the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein, and then between the internal and external carotid Fig. 46.5.—Scheme of the Origin and Distribution OF THE Auditory Nerve. Py, Pyramid ; 01, Olive ; R.B, Restiform body ; A.St, Strife aciistioEe ; Do, Dorsal nucleus ; G, Lateral cochlear nucleus ; Ve, Ventral nucleus ; L. R, Lateral root, and M.R, Median root of auditory nerve ; P. I, Pars intermedia ; F, Facial nerve ; G. G, Geniculate ganglion ; Sup, Superior (coch- lear), and luf. Inferior (vestibular) branches of auditory nerve ; Co, Cochlea; S, Saccule ; P, Posterior semicircular canal ; e, External semi- circular canal ; S, Superior semicircular canal ; U, Utricle.