THE EETINA. 689 The non-striped muscular fibres are arranged in Lwo sets: (a) circular, (b) radial. The circular fibres form a band around the pupillary apertiire, by the contraction of which its size is lessened, and hence it is termed the m. sphincter pupillse. The radial fibres extend outwards from the sphincter to the ciliary margin and constitute the m. dilatator pupillse. Many anatomists regard the radial hbres, in man and most mammals, as being elastic and not muscular. In animals, where the radial libres are muscular, the degree of their development varies considerably; they are feebly marked in the rabbit, but well developed in the bird, and still more so in the otter. The nerves of the chorioid and iris are derived from the long and short cihary nerves. The former, two or three in number, are branches of the nasal nerve; the latter, varying from eight to fourteen, are derived from the ciliary ganglion. Piercing the sclera around the optic entrance the nerves traverse the perichorioidal lymph space, where they form a plexus, rich in nerve-cells, from which filaments are supplied to the blood-vessels of the chorioid. In front of the ciliary muscle a second plexus, also rich in nerve-cells, is formed, which supplies the muscle itself and sends filaments into the iris as far as its pupillary margin, for the supply of its muscular fibres and blood-vessels. The sphincter pupillse is supplied by the third cranial nerve, whilst filaments from the sympathetic are distributed to the dilatator papillae. THE RETINA. The retina, or nervous tunic of the eyeball, is a soft, delicate membrane, in which the fibres of the optic nerve are spread out. It consists of two strata, viz.: (a) an outer, pigmented layer (stratum pigmenti), attached to the chorioid; and (b) an inner nervous lamina, the retina proper, in contact with the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous body, but only attached to it at the optic entrance and in the region of the ciliary processes. Expanding from the entrance of the optic nerve the retina appears to end, a short distance behind the ciliary body, in a wavy border, the ora serrata. Here its nervous elements cease and the membrane becomes suddenly thinned, but a dehcate continuation of it is prolonged over the posterior aspect of the cihary body and iris. This continuation consists of the stratum pig- menti, together with a layer of columnar epithelium, and constitutes the pars ciliaris retinae and pars iridica retinae, already referred to (pp. 687 and 688). The portion behind the ora serrata is termed the " physiological retina " or pars optica retinae, and its thickness gradually diminishes from 04 mm., near the optic entrance, to O'l mm. at the ora serrata. Viewed from the front it presents, at the posterior pole of the eyeball, and therefore directly in the axis of the globe, a small yellowish spot, the macula lutea. Somewhat oval in shape, the greatest or tmnsverse diameter of the macula measures from 2-3 mm.; its central part is depressed and named the fovea centralis. About 3 mm. to the nasal side of the posterior pole and about 1 mm. below its level is a whitish, circular disc, the optic disc, or porus opticus, which corresponds with the entrance of the optic nerve and has a diameter of about 1-5 mm. The circumference of the optic disc is slightly raised and is named the coUiculus nervi optici, while its depressed central portion is termed the optic cup, or excavatio papillfe nervi optici. The optic disc consists merely of nerve fibres, the other layers of the retina being absent, and constitutes the " blind spot" of physiologists. The nervous layer of the retina is transparent during hfe, but becomes opaque and of a greyish colour soon after death. If an animal is kept in the dark before the removal of its eyeball, the retina presents a purple tinge, due to the presence of a colouring matter named rhodopsin or visual purple, which, however, becomes rapidly bleached on exposure to sunlight. This colouring matter is absent from the macula lutea, and also over a narrow zone, 3-4 mm. in width, near the ora serrata. Structure of the Retina (Figs. 499, 500, 501).—The nervous elements of the retina are supported l)y non-nervous or sustentacular fibres, and are arranged in seven layers, to which must be added the stratum pigmenti. 44