935 THE LUNGS. and a l>aso, an inner and an outer surface, and an anterior and a posterior l)order. The apex pulmonis is hlunt antl rounded, and rises aliove the level of the ol)lique first costal arch to the full height of the cervical dome of pleura. It therefore protrudes upwards through the thoracic inlet into the root of the neck. The subclavian artery arches outwards on its inner and anterior aspects a short distance below its summit, and a gi'oove (sulcus subclavius) corresponding to the vessel is apparent upon it. At a lower level on the apex pulmonis a shallower and wider groove upon its inner and anterior aspects marks the position of the innomi- nate and sul)clavian veins. Although these vessels impress the lung they are separated from it l)y the cervical pleura. The basis pulmonis presents a semilunar outline, being curved arouiul the base of the pericardium. It is adapted to the upper surface of the diaphragm, and conse- (piently it is deeply hollowed out. As the I'ight cupola of the diaphragm ascends higher than the left, the l)asal concavity of the right lung is deeper than that of the left lung. Laterally and behind, the l)ase of each lung is limited by a salient thin margin which descends for some distance in the narrow pleural recess (sinus phrenico-costalis) between the diaphragm and the chest wall. This basal margin of the lung extends lower down on the outer side and behind than it does in front, I)ut it falls consideral)ly short of the bottom of the phrenico-costal sinus of pleura. Thus, after expiration, it reaches in the mammillary line the lower border of the sixtli ril); in the axillary or mid-lateral line the eighth rib; whilst l)ehind it pro- ceeds inwards along a straight horizontal line so as to reach the vertebral column at the level of the extremity of the spine of the tenth dorsal vertebra. During respiration the thin basal margin rises and falls in the phrenico-costal sinus of the pleura, l)ut even after the deepest breath it never reaches the lowest limit of this recess. The bases of the lungs estabHsli important relations with certain of the viscera which occupy the costal zone of the aljdoininal cavity, the diaphragm alone intervening. Thus LAVIAN ARTERY NIMOMINATE VEIN A B Fig. 633.—Outer or Costal Surfaces of the two Lungs. A, Right lung. B, Left lung. the base of the right lung rests upon the right lobe of the liver ; whilst the base of the left lung is in relation to the left lobe of the liver, the fundus of the stomach, the spleen, and in some cases to the splenic flexure of the colon. 59 a