999 THP: PEKITOiNEUM. Falciform ligament Foramen of Winslow Stomach Round ligament of liver Lesser omentum (cut) Portal vein Ijieno-renai ligament fSniall intestine Hight kidney The mesentery stomach, intestines, and ntlier alxloniinal viscera—clothing them all—to the pelvis. Tn like manner, when traced laterally from the anterior wall, the membrane will be found to line the sides of the cavity, and passing backwards to clothe the posterior al)dominaI wall, and the viscera lying upon it (Fig. 673, B). It should l)e pointed out that all the abdominal viscera are either directly fixed by connective tissue to the posterior abdominal wall, or suspended by blood-vessels from it. In the former case the peritoneum is re- flected directly from the wall on to the viscera ; in the latter it runs along the blood-vessels to reach the viscera, which it clothes, and then re- turns to the wall on the opposite sides of the vessels, which it thus encloses in a fold. Whilst the main sac of the peritoneum lies in front of the various abdominal viscera, covering them over and dip- ping down between them, it should l)e mentioned that there is a special diverti- culum derived from this " great sac," which turns in be- hind the stomach, and covers its pos- terior surface; this is known as the lesser or smaller sac, and it will lie descril)ed in detail later on. The aperture through which one sac com- municates with the other is termed the In passing from organ to organ, or from these to the abdominal wall, the peritoneum forms numerous folds, whicli classes:— (a) Omenta are folds of peritoneum which pass from the stomach to other abdominal organs. They are three in number, namely: (1) The great or gastro- colic omentum, which hangs down like an apron from the great curvature of the stomach, and passes to the transverse colon, connecting this latter, very loosely, however, to the stomach; (2) the lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum, which extends from the lesser curvature of the stomach to the li^'er; and (3) the gasfro-splenic omentum, which passes from the stomach to the spleen. (h) Mesenteries a.re folds of peritoneum which unite portions of the intestine to Ascending colon Descending coloi Fic;, 673.—Diagrammatic Transverse Sections of Abdomen, to .show the peritoneum on transverse tracing. A, at level of foramen of Win,5low : B, lower down. In A note, one of the vasa brevia arteries pa.ssing to the stomaph between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum, and also the foramen of Winslow leading into the lesser sac which lies behind the stomach. are dividetl according to their connexions into three