729 STEUCTUKE OF THE SKIN. nucleated columnar cells planted by denticulated extremities on the basement membrane of the cerium. 2. The stratum mucosum, consisting of six or eight layers of polygonal, nucleated " prickle" or " iinger" cells, the processes of which join those of adjacent cells. Between the cells of this layer are minute channels, in which leucocytes or pigment granules may be seen. The cells of the stratum mucosum are characterised by the presence of numerous epidermic hbrils, which are coloured violet by hsematoxylin and red by carmine. These fibrils are unaffected by boiling, but swell up under the action of acids and alkalies and form the filaments of union between adjacent cells. On account of their presence, L. Eanvier {Com^pt. rend., Paris, Jan. 1899, tome cxxviii.) has named this layer the stratum filamentosum. The dark colour of the negro's skin is caused by the presence of numerous pigment granules in the deeper layers of this stratum ; the pigment—of which melanin forms an important constituent—is absent from the more superficial layers of the epidermis. 3. The stratum granulosum, consisting of two or three layers of horizontally arranged, flattened cells, scattered around the nuclei of which are elliptical or spherical granules of eleidin, a substance staining deeply with carmine, and probably representing an intermediate stage between the protoplasm of the deeper cells and the keratin of the superficial layers. 4. The stratum lucidum, an apparently homogeneous layer, but in reality made up of several strata of flattened or irregular squames, some of which may contain eleidin granules. 5. The stratum corneum, which comprises several layers of flattened, keratinised squames, from which the nuclei have disappeared. The superficial layers of this stratum are constantly removed by friction and as constantly replaced by the deeper cells, which undergo keratinisation as they approach the surface. L. Eanvier (op. cit.) lias pointed out that tlie stratum lucidum is really double, and has named the deeper of its two layers the stratum intermedium; this he describes as consisting of two or three layers of clear cells with atrophied nuclei, while in the cell-walls the epidermic fibrils " are rolled up like the threads of a cocoon." He has also applied the term stratum disjunctum to the partly-detached cells on the free surface of the stratum corneum. Eanvier {Arch. Anat. Micr. 1898, tome ii. fasc. iv.) has likewise shown that the cells of the stratum corneum contain granules of a fatty material having the consistency and plasticity of beeswax. Regeneration of the epidermis is generally regarded as taking place by cell proliferation in the stratum germinativum, the young cells gradually passing through the jjolyhedral and granular stages, and ultimately becoming the horny squames of the stratum corneum. Professor Thomson of Oxford considers that, although this view meets all the requirements in white races, a difficulty is met with if it is applied to coloured races, where most pigment is found in the deeper cells of the stratum mucosum, while the superficial layers are free from colour. If the deeper cells advance to the surface, it is only reasonable to suppose that they would carry their pigment with them. This theory, therefore, necessitates a satisfactory exjDlanation of the disappearance of the pigment from the superficial layers. He suggests that possibly the growth of the epidermis is analagous to the growth of the cork cambium of plants, the stratum mucosum corresponding to the green cells and the stratum corneum to the corky layer of the cambium. If such be the case—and he insists that there is much evidence in support of it—the deeper cells would advance inwards towards the coriuni and the superficial cells would grow outwards towards the surface. Under this view the active layers would be the stratum granulosum and stratum lucidum, and by it many of the difficulties would be exjilained, including the mysterious disappearance of the pigment from the sujjerficial layers ; it would also att'ord a reasonable explanation of how it happens that, in old age, a negro's hair becomes white, while his skin retains its blackness. Vessels and Nerves of the Skin.—The arteries form a plexus in the sub- cutaneous tissue, from which branches extend into the corium, where they supply the hair follicles and glands and form a second plexus under the papillae, to which small loops are given. The veins and lymphatics commence in the papilke, and, after forming a subpapillary plexus, open into their respective subcutaneous vessels. The nerves of the skin vary in number in different parts of the body, being extremely numerous where the sense of touch is acute, e.g. on the palmar aspect of the terminal phalanges, while in the skin of the back, where the sensibility is less, they are fewer in number. They form a plexus in the corium, and either terminate amongst the cells of the epidermis or in special end organs named tactile corpuscles. Those ending in the epidermis form a rich subepithelial plexus,