1153 THE SUPRAEENAL CAPSULES. The left suprarenal capsule presents a semilunar form, and as a rule is slightly larger than tlie right capsule. Its ^iosition on the kidney is also somewhat different. It is usually placed on its inner l^order immediately ahove the hilus. The Fio. 787. A. Anterior surface of right suprarenal capsule. B. Anterior surface of left suprarenal capsule. " The upper and inner parts of each kidney are indicated in outline. On the right capsule the dotted line indicates the upper limit of the peritoneal covering. anterior surface, presents, not far from its lower end, a very oltvious hilus with a large emerging vein. The greater part of this surface is in relation to the posterior aspect of the stomach, and forms a portion of the l)ed in which that organ lies. Tliis gastric area of the suprarenal capsule is clothed by peritoneum derived from the lesser sac. The lower portion of the anterior surface is covered by the pancreas and crossed by the splenic vessels, and is not in relation to the peritoneum. Some- times the spleen extends inwards so as to lie in relation to tire upper part of the Fig. 788. A. Posterior surface of l ight suprarenal capsule. B. Posterior surface of left suprarenal capsule. anterior surface of the left suprarenal capsule, Init this cannot be said to be the rule. The posterior surface is subdivided into two areas, as on the right side, by a curved ridge. The upper area is Hat, and applied to the left crus of the diaphi'agni; the lower area is hollowed out, and is in relation to the kidney, a considerable amount of fat intervening. In the fcetus the suprarenal capsules are relatively very much larger than in the adult. Indeed, on the left side the capsule extends downwards on the kidney so far that the spleen is completely shut out liy it from that organ. Vessels of the Suprarenal Bodies.—Each capsule receives three arteries—viz. from the infeiior phrenic, from the aorta, and from the renal artery. One large vein, emerging from the hilus ou 73