74 OSTEOLOGY. passage of nutrient vessels, more particularly behind, where a depression of con- siderable size receives the openings of the canals through which some of the veins escape. Connected with the body posteriorly there is a bony arch (arcus vertebrfe) which, by its imion with the body, encloses a foramen of variable size, the spinal or vertebral foramen (foramen vertebrale). When the vertebrae are placed on the top of each other these foramina form with the uniting ligaments a continuous canal—spinal or neural canal—in which the spinal cord with its coverings is lodged. The arch, which is formed by the union of the pedicles and laminse, besides enclosing the spinal foramen, also supports a certain number of processes; of these, some are outstanding, and may be regarded as a series of levers to which muscles are attached, whilst others are articular and assist in uniting the different vertebrse together by means of a series of movable joints. The pedicles are the bars of bone which pass from the back of the body of the vertebrae on either side to the points where the articular processes are united to the arch. The pedicles are compressed laterally, and have rounded superior and inferior borders. Since the vertical breadth of the pedicles is not as great as the thickness of the body to which they are attached, it follows that when the vertebrfe are placed one above the other a series of intervals is left between the pedicles of the different vertebrae. These spaces, enclosed in front by the bodies of the vertebrae and their inter- vertebral discs, and behind by the coaptation of the articular processes, form a series of holes communicating with the neural or spinal canal; these are called the intervertebral foramina (foramina intervertebralia), and allow of the transmission of spinal nerves and vessels. As each intervertebral foramen is bounded above and below by a pedicle, the grooved surfaces in correspondence with the upper and lower borders of the pedicles are called the upper and lower intervertebral grooves or notches (incisura vertebralis superior et inferior). Posteriorly, the two pedicles are united by two somewhat flattened plates of bone—the laminae, which converge towards the middle line, and become fused with the root of the projecting spinous process (processus spinosus). The breadth of the laminae and their sloping arrange- ment are such, that when the vertebrae are articulated together they leave little space between them, thus enclosing fairly completely the neural canal, of which they form the posterior wall. The edges and inner surfaces of the laminae are rough for the attachment of the ligaments which bind them together. The muscular processes are three in number, viz. two transverse processes—one on either side—and one central or median, the spinous process. The former (processus transversus) project outwards on either side from the arch at the point where the pedicle joins the lamina. The latter (processus spinosus) extends back- wards in the middle line from the point of fusion of the laminte. The spinous processes display much variety of length and form. The articular processes (zygapophyses), four in number, are arranged in pairs— one superior, the other inferior; the former are placed on the upper surface of the arch where the pedicles and laminae join, the latter below the arch in correspondence with the superior. Whilst differing much in the direction of their articular surfaces, the upper have generally a backward tendency, whilst the lower incline forwards. THE TRUE OR MOVABLE VERTEBRAE. The Cervical Vertebra. The cervical vertebrae (vertebrae cervicales), seven in number, can be readily distinguished from all the other vertebrae by the fact that their transverse pro- cesses are pierced by a foramen. The two highest, and the lowest, require special description ; the remaining four conform to a common type. Their bodies, the smallest of all the true vertebrae, are oblong in shape, the transverse diameter being much longer than the antero-posterior width. The upper surface, which slopes from behind forwards and downwards, is concave from side to side, owing to the marked projection of its lateral margins. Its anterior lip is rounded off, whilst its posterior edge is sharply defined.