THE OEGANS OF SENSE. 722 than the inner, especially in the upper part of the cochlea. They are more inclined towards the membrana basilaris, and form with it an angle of about 40°. The head of each is convex internally, to fit the concavitj' on the head of the inner rod, and is prolonged Outer rod of Corti Inner rod of Corti Inner liair cell Hensen's stripp Membrana tectoria Sulcus spiralis | Limbus laminie internns i spirali Outer hair cells Space of N'nt'l Tunnel of Corti Fig. 528.—Transverse Section of Coeti's Organ from the Central Con, of Cochlea (Retzius). outwards as a plate, the phalangeal process, Avhich becomes connected with the lamina reticularis. In the head is an oval body which has an affinity for certain reagents. The main part of each rod consists of a nearly homogeneous material, which is finely striated. At the base of each, on its tunnel side, is a nucleated mass (rf protoplasm which reaches as far as the heads of the rods, and covers also the greater part of the tunnel floor. This may be regarded as the undifferentiated part of the cell from which the rod was developed. Slit-lilce intervals, for the transmission of nerves, exist between the intei-mediate portions of adjacent rods. Hair Cells.—These, like Corti's rods, form two sets, inner and outer. The former consists of a single row lying immediately internal to the inner rods—the latter of three, or, it may be, four rows placed to the outer side of the external rods. The inner hair cells are about 3500 in number, and have a greater diameter than the inner rods, and so each is supported by more than one rod. Somewhat oval in shape, their free extremities are sur- mounted by about twenty fine hair-like processes, arranged in the form of a crescent, with its concavity dii-ected inwards. The deep end of the cell is rounded, and contains a large nucleus. It reaches only about half-way down the rod, and in contact with it are the arborisations of the nerve terminations. To the inner side of this row of hair cells are two or three rows of elongated columnar cells, M hich act^ as supporting cells and are continuous with the low columnar cells lining the sulcus spiralis internus. "The outer hair cells num- ber about 12,000, and form three rows in the basal coil and four rows in the upper two coils, although in the higher coils the rows are not so regularh^ arranged. Their rounded free extremities support some twenty hairlets arranged in the form of a crescent, opening inwards. Their deep extremities reach about half-way to the membrana basilaris, and are in contact with the nerve arborisations. Alternating with the rows of the outer hair cells are the rows of Deiters' supporting cells, the lower extremities of which are expanded on the membrana basilaris, whilst their upper ends are tapei-ed ; the nucleus is placed near the middle of each cell, and, in addi- tion, each cell contains a bright, thread-like structure, called the supporting fibre. This fibre is attached, by a club-shaped base, to the membrana basilaris, and expands, at the free end of the cell, to form a phalangeal process of the membrana reticularis. The cells of Hansen, or outer supporting cells, consist of about half a dozen rows, immediatel)' outside Deiters' cells, and form a well-marked elevation on the floor of the ductus cochlearis. Their deep extremities are narrow and attached to the membrana basilaris, while their free ends are expanded; each cell contains a distinct nucleus and some pigment granules. The columnar cells, situated externally to tlie cells of Heusen, cover the outer part of the zona pectinata, and are named the cells of Claudius. A space, the space of Nuel, exists between the outer rods of Corti and the neighbouring row of hair cells. It communicates internally with Corti's tunnel, and extends outwards between the outer hair cells as far as Hensen's cells.