THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. 660 (3) the mandibular arch (inferior maxillary nerve). The mandibular is at first the main nerve ; and the maxillary division is sometimes regarded as a subordinate branch (prae-branchial, prae- trematic) for the supply of the anterior margin of the cleft (mouth), with which the nerve is in relation. The ophthalmic nerve is sometimes regarded as a morj^hologically separate nerve. The nerves to these arches have been compared to the anterior primary divisions of spinal nerves, the branches which they supply to the forehead and temple (frontal, orbital, and auriculo - temporal) re- presenting the posterior primary divisions. The ganglia on each division of the nerve are formed as extensions from the Gasserian ganglion. ^The facial nerve is essentiallj' the nerve of the second (hyoid) arch, and the cleft in front of that arch (spiracular cleft. Eustachian tube). Its motor root supplies the muscles of that arch (staj)edius, stylo - hyoid, and digastric), and the ejiicranial and facial muscles and platysma myoides, which are de- velopments from the hyoid arch (Rabl). The chorda tympani nerve is regarded as the sub- ordinate (prse-branchial, j^rse-trematic) branch to supply the anterior margin of the first post- oral cleft. It is possible that the geniculate ganglion, with the pars intermedia and the chorda tymj^ani may, in part at least, represent Fig. 473.—Scheme to illustrate the Disposition of the Myotomes in tli® ganglionic and THE Embryo in Relation to the Head, Trunk, and Limbs. afferent element of the A, B. C, First three cephalic myotomes ; N, 1, 2, 3, 4, Last persisting cephalic "-erve. Or the geniculate myotomes ; C. T. L, S, Co, The myotomes of the cervical, thoracic, gang lon, and the nerves lumbar, sacral, and caudal regions ; L, IL, III., IV., V., VI., VIL, VIII., ^ relation to it, may be IX., X., XL, XIL, refer to the cranial nerves, and the structures with associated with an " epi- which they may be embryologically associated. branchial " sense-organ. The auditory nerve, on the other hand, may be either the sensory element of the branchial nerve, associated with the hyoid arch and first post-oral cleft, or it may represent the nerve or nerves belonging to ancestral sense-organs of the lateral line. The glosso-pharyngeal is the branchial nerve of the third post-oral (thyro-hyoid) arch and the cleft in front. Its efferent fibres supply the muscle of this arch,—the stylo-pharyngeus. The superior constrictor of the pharynx is also assigned to this arch ; the middle and inferior muscles to the fourth (first branchial) arch. The afferent part uf the nerve is possibly composed of two elements; the petrous ganglion being associated with an epibranchial or lateral line sense-organ, and the rest of the nerve forming the afferent fibres for the gill-cleft and arch. The lingual branches are regarded as the main stem (post-trematic), the pharyngeal branches as subordinate branches ; the tympanic branch being the pree-branchial or proe-trematic branch for the anterior margin of the gill-cleft. The pneumogastric nerve is generally regarded as representing the fusion of all the branchial nerves behind the glosso-pharyngeal. Its efferent fibres are in series with those of the glosso- pharyngeal above and the spinal accessory nerve below, and belong to the lateral series of His. Its afferent fibres, like those of the glosso-pharyngeal, consist of two elements. The lower ganglion has possible connections with epibranchial sense-organs ; the rest of the nerve repre- senting the fused branchial branches of fishes. The superior laryngeal nerve is looked upon as the branchial nerve of the fourth, and the inferior laryngeal nerve as the branchial nerve •of the fifth arch. The auricular branch is sometimes, but erroneously, regarded as the homo- logue of one of the lateral nerves of fishes. While the relation of the nerve to the hinder gill