284 THE AKTICULATIONS OH JOINTS. The anterior pubic ligament (lig. pubicum anterius, Fig. 219) is a structure of considerable thickness and strength, Its superficial fibres, which are derived very largely from the tendons and aponeuroses of adjoining muscles, are oblique, and form an interlaced decussation. The deeper fibres are short, and extend trans- versely from one pubic bone to the other. The posterior pubic ligament (lig. pubicum posterius, Fig. 220) is very weak, and consists of scattered fibres which extend transversely between contiguous pubic surfaces posterior to the articulation. The superior pubic ligament (lig. pubicum superius, Fig. 219) is likewise weak, and consists of transverse fil)res passing between the two pubic crests. The inferior or subpubic ligament (lig. pubicum inferius vel lig. arcuatum pubis, Fig. 220) occupies the arch of the pubis, and is of considerable strength. It gives roundness to the puliic arch and forms part of the pelvic outlet. It has con- siderable vertical thickness immediately below the interpubic disc to which it is attached. Laterally it is attached to adjacent sides of the descending rami of the pubis. Its lower border is free, and separated from the triangular ligament of the perineum by a transverse oval interval through which the dorsal vein of the penis passes backwards to the interior of the pelvis. The Triangular Ligament of the Perineum. The triangular ligament of the perineum is a membranous structure which occupies the pubic arch below, and is distinct from the subpubic ligament. It assists in completing the pelvic walls anteriorly in the same manner that the obturator membrane does laterally. Indeed, these two structures occupy the same mor- phological plane. The triangular ligament presents two surfaces—one superficial or perineal; the other deep, or pelvic, and both of these surfaces are associated witli muscles. Its lateral borders are attached to the sides of the pulnc arch, while its base is somewhat ill-defined, by reason of its fusion with the fascia of Colles in the urethral region of the perineum. The apex of the triangular ligament is truncated, free, and well-defined, constitut- ing the transverse perineal ligament, above which there is the interval for the dorsal vein of the penis. It is pierced by a number of vessels and nerves, but the principal opening is situated mesially one inch below the pubic arch, and transmits the uiethra. The Obturator Membrane. The obturator membrane (membrana obturatoria, Fig. 219) occupies the obturator or thyroid foramen. It is attached to the pelvic aspect of the circumference of this foramen. It consists of fibres irregularly arranged and of varying strength, so that sometimes it almost appears fenestrated. At the highest part of the foramen it is incomplete and forms a U-shaped border, between which and the bony circumference of the foramen, the obturator canal (canalis obtura- torius) is formed. In this position the membrane is continuous with the parietal pelvic fascia which clothes the inner side of the obturator internus muscle, above the upper free margin of the muscle. From the outer or crural aspect of the membrane some of its fibres are prolonged to the antero-inferior aspect of the capsule of the hip-joint. Mechanism and Movements of the Pelvis.—The human pelvis presents a mechanism the principal requirement of wliicli is stability and not movement, for, through the pelvis, the weight of the trunk, superimposed upon the sacrum, is transmitted to the lower limbs. Moreover, its stability is largely concerned in the maintenance of the erect attitude. The movements of its various j)arts are therefore merely such as are consistent with stability, without producing absolute rigidity. The two innominate bones, being bound together by powerful ligaments at the pubic articula- tion, constitute an inverted arch, of which the convexity is directed downwards and forwards, while its piers are turned ujjwards and backwards, and considerably expanded in relation to the hinder parts of the iliac bones. Between the piers of this inverted arch the sacrum is situated. This bone is in no sense a key-stone to an arch, because, as may readily be seen in antero-posterior transverse section, the sacrum is wider in front than behind, and the superposed weight naturally tends to make the sacrum fall towards the jjelvic cavity, and so fit less closely between the innominate bones. The sacrum is in reality an ol^lic^ue platform, in contact with each innominate