DEVELOPMENT OF THE BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM. 875 vessels which accompany the hepatic veins and their tributaries. Their efferent vessels pass mainly to the thoracic duct, but some of the upper ones on the right side end in the right lymphatic duct, and a few join the bronchial glands. The bronchial glands (lymphoglandulfe bronchiales) lie along the sides of the bronchi, both within and outside the lung. They receive afferents from the superficial and deep parts of the lungs, from the visceral pleura, and from the pos- terior mediastinal glands. Their efferents pass, on the left side to the thoracic duct, and on the right side to the right lymphatic duct. The deep lymphatic vessels of the thorax have been included in the description of the tributaries of the deep glands. As in the abdomen and pelvis, the main deep lymphatic vessels accompany the blood-vessels of the region. DEVELOPMENT OF THE BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM. The Pekicardium, the Primitive Aort^, and the Heart. A general account of the development of the primitive vascular system and of the establishment of the foetal circulation has been given in a previous chajater (see p. 57 et seq.), and it is there pointed out that the earliest blood-vessels of the developing ovum appear in the vascular area of the yolk sac, i.e. outside the body of the embryo altogether. Almost simultaneously, however, two longitudinal vessels appear in the embryo itself. They are formed in the splanchnic mesoderm of the pericardial area, and are easily distinguishable before that area is carried downwards to form the ventral wall of the foregut during the evolution of the head fold. The two longitudinal vessels are the rudiments of the primitive heart and of the principal blood-vessels. The changes which take place in them, and Avhich result in the formation of the fully-developed heart and vessels, will be more easily understood after the development of the pericardial sac, together with the alterations it undergoes both as regards position and relations, have been carefully studied. Development of the Pericardium and the Primitive AorteC.—The pericardial area is recognisable as soon as the mesoderm has extended over the embryonic area of the developing ovum. It is somewhat semilunar in shape, it lies at the extreme anterior end of the embryonic region, and it limits the bucco-pharyngeal area or membrane in front and at the sides (Figs. 15 and 18). The mesoderm of the pericardial area is continuous latei'ally with the general mesoderm of the embryonic area, but in those mammals in which a pro-amnion is formed it is separated in front from the extra-embryonic mesoderm by the pro-amniotic ai'ea, whilst in other mammals also it remains quite separate from the extra- embryonic mesoderm in front though it is more closely related to it. With the formation of the coelom the mesoderm of the pericardial area is separated into an upper or somatic and a lower or splanchnic layer, and it is in the latter that the two small tubes which constitute the fii'st blood-vessels of the body of the embryo appear. The two tubes, or primitive aortcE, which run longitudinally and parallel to one another, apparently end at first blindly both in front and behind, but as development proceeds they extend backwards, one on each side of the bucco-pharyngeal membrane, beneath the protovertebral somites, to the caudal region, behind which they pass on to the walls of the yolk sac to join the blood-vessels of the vascular area; before ending they give off branches to the allantois. In the human embryo the yolk sac is relatively small and unimportant, and accordingly the branches which go to the allantois, or rather to the chorion along the body stalk, appear to form the more direct posterior continuations of the primitive vessels. The anterior end of each primitive trunk grows outwards along the margin of the pericardial area to its lateral extremity, and is continued on to the yolk sac, where it also joins the vessels of the vascular area. During the formation and evolution of the headfold the pericardial area increases in size, its cavity enlarges, and both it and the bucco-pharyngeal area are reversed in position (Figs. 16 and 25). Both these areas are carried forwards somewhat with the headfold, in which it is to be remembered the primitive foregut is included, but when the lieadfold is completely formed the pericardial area lies ventral to the foregut, and its primitive upper somatic surface is now its lower or anterior surface ; the original lower or splanchnic surface similarly is suyjerior or dorsal, whilst what was, at first, the anterior border of the peri- cardial area is converted into the 2)osterior end of the reversed area, and it forms the anterior limit of tlie umbilical orifice. In brief, the relative positions of its several parts are