FASCIJE AND MUSCLES OF THE PECTOEAL BEGION. 309 humerus, behind the coraco-brachialis and biceps, and the axillary vessels and nerves. It lies in front of the insertion of the teres major, from which it is separated by a bursa. In the back the latissimus dorsi is superficiAl, except in its upper part, which is concealed by the trapezius. It lies upon the lumbar fascia, ribs, and lower angle of the scapula, and at its borders two triangular spaces are formed; at the upper border is the so-called triangle of auscultation: at the outer border is the triangle of Petit, a small space bounded by the iliac crest, the latissimus dorsi, and the obliquus externus abdominis. This is the site of an occasional lumbar hernia. The levator anguli scapulae (levator scapulae) is a strap-like muscle, arising by tendinous sHps from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the first three or four cervical vertebrae, between the attachments of the scalenus medius and splenius colli. It is directed downwards along the side of the neck, to be inserted into the vertebral border of the scapula in its upper fourth, from the superior angle to the spine. It is concealed in its upper third by the sternomastoid and deep muscles of the neck. In its middle third it occupies the floor of the posterior triangle. In its lower third it is again hidden from view by the trapezius. It conceals the splenius colli and cervicalis ascendens muscles. The rhomboideus minor may be regarded as a separated slip of the rhom- boideus major, with which it is often continuous. It arises from the ligamentum nuchas and the spines of the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebrae. Passing obliquely downwards and outwards, it is inserted into the vertebral border of the scapula below the levator anguli scapulse muscle, and opposite to the base of the spine. The rhomboideus major arises from the spinous processes of the thoracic vertebrae from the second to the fifth inclusive, and from the corresponding supra- spinous ligaments. Passing downwards and outwards, it is inserted below the rhomboideus minor into the vertebral border of the scapula, between the spine and the lower angle. The muscle is only inserted directly into the scapula by means of its lower fibres. Its upper part is attached to a membranous band, which, connected for the most part by loose areolar tissue to the vertebral border of the scapula, is fixed to the bone at its extremities, above near the base of the spine, and below at the inferior angle. The rhomboid muscles are concealed for the most part by the trapezius. The lower part of the rhomboideus major is superficial in the triangle of auscultation. The muscles cover the serratus posticus superior and the vertebral aponeurosis. THE FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE PECTOEAL EEGION. FASCIAE. The fasciae and muscles of the chest occupy the space below the clavicle, between the sternum and the humerus, and form at the same time the anterior boundary of the axilla. The superficial fascia of the chest usually contains a quantity of fat, in which the mamma is embedded. The platysma myoides muscle lies beneath its upper part. The deep fascia is attached above to the clavicle, and internally to the sternum. Below it is continuous with the fascia of the abdominal wall: It gives origin to the platysma myoides, and invests, the pectoralis major. At the outer border of the great pectoral muscle it is thickened, and forms the floor of the axillary space (axillary fascia), continued posteriorly on to the posterior fold of the axilla (teres major and latissimus dorsi), and externally into connexion with the deep fascia of the arm. Costo-Coracoid Membrane.—Beneath the pectoralis major a deeper stratum of fascia invests the pectoralis minor muscle. At the upper border of this muscle it forms the costo-coracoid membrane, which passes upwards to the lower border of the subclavius muscle, where it splits into two layers, attached in front of and behind that muscle to the borders of the under surface of the clavicle. The membrane traced inwards along the subclavius muscle is attached to the first costal cartilage;