THE BONES OF THE HAND. 197 A secondary centre appears in the cartilage of tlie lower extremity about the second or third year; this does not unite with the shaft until the twentieth or twenty-fifth year, somewhat earlier in tlie" female. From this the carpal and ulnar articular surfaces are formed. The centre for the head appears from the fifth to the seventh year, and fuses with tlie neck about the age of eighteen or twenty. It forms the capitellar articular surface and combines with the neck to form the area for articulation with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. A scale-like epiphysis capping the summit of the bicipital tubercle has been described; this appears about fourteen or fifteen, and rapidly fuses with that process. THE BONES OF THE HAND. The bones of the hand, twenty-seven in number, may be conveniently divided into three groups :— (1) The bones of the wrist or carpus—eight in number. (2) The bones of „ , the palm or meta- carpus—five in number. (3) The bones of the fingers and thumb or phalan- ges—fourteen in number. Abductor poUici Oppimens pollici Extensor ossi metaearpi poUici; Plexor carpi radialis Adductor obliquiit poUicis A (m Sesamoid bon ~rr'-^ Abductor _ O pollicis t Flexor brevis- i pollicis / Adductor / ■ transversu; pollici I. Metacarpai Unciform cuneifokm Pisiform Abductor niiuiiiii digiti Flexor carpi uliiaris F lexor brevis and Opi)onenH niiniiiii digiti Palmar interossei Metacarpal Flexor brevi.s and Abductor minimi digiti Palmar interossei 1< IRST PHALANX The Cakpus. The carpal bones (ossa carpi) are ar- ranged in two rows: the first or proxi- mal row comprises from without in- wards the scaphoid (os naviculare), semilunar (os luna- tum), cuneiform (os triquetrum), and pisiform (os pisi- forme); the second or distal row in- cludes the trapezium (os multangulum majus), trapezoid (os multangulum min- us), OS magnum (os capitatum), and unciform (os hama- tum). Irregularly six-sided, each of these bones possesses non - articular pal- mar and dorsal sur- faces. In addition, the marginal bones are non-articular along their ulnar ^^^-^ and radial aspects according as they form the inner or outer members of the series. Note.—In the illustrations (Figs. 141 to 148) the bones are represented in the centre of Flexor piofundns digitorum -The Bones of the Right Wbist and Hand THE Front. SEEN FKOM