THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. lOGG forming the left bomidarv (Fig. 724) of tlie uncovered area of tlie riglit lobe, and a tliird layer of the coronary ligament. The detailed arrangement of tlie peritoneum will be found on p. 1046, with the general account of the peritoneal cavity. Ligaments.—Most of the ligaments of the liver, namely, the coronary, falciform, and two lateral, are formed by folds of peritoneum ; the other two, namely, the I'ound ligament and the ligament of the ductus venosus, are remains of foetal blood-vessels. The coronary ligament (ligamentum coronarium hepatis) consists of the folds of peritoneum w hich are reflected from the liver to the diaphragm at the margins of the un- covered area of the right lobe ; both its upper and lower layers are derived from the great sac. The name of right lateral ligament has been given, without sufficient reason, per- haps, to its pointed I'iglit extremity (Fig. 716). The left lateral ligament (ligamentum triangulare) is a considerable triangular fold, entirely miconnected with tlie coronary ligament, which is attached by one end to the upper or parietal surface of the left lobe near its posterior border, and by the other to the diaphragm, for a distance of several inches as a rule. Its attaclnueut to the diai)hragni lies nearly altogether to tlie left of the tcsopliageal orifice, and about | inch (18 mm.) in front of the line of this ojiening. Sonietinies it is directed from the diaphragm liackwards to its liepatic attaelnnent. Falciform Ligament (ligamentum falciforme hepatis).—This is also known as the broad and the suspensory ligament, the latter being a distinct misnomer. It is a crescentic fold of peritoneum, which is attached by its convex border to the under surface of the diaphragm, and to the anterior abdominal w-all (an inch or more to the right of the middle line) to within a short distance (1 to 2 inches, 2"5 to 5 cm.) of the umbilicus. Its concave border is attached to (the sujx?rior and anterior areas of) the parietal surface of the liver ; below this it presents a free edge, stretching from near the umbilicus to the umbilical notch of the liver, and containing within it a stout fibrous cord, the round ligament. • Near the liack part of the upper aspect of the liver the two layers of which the falciform ligament is coini)osed separate, and leave a triangular area of liver substance in front of the upper end of the vena cava mu-overed by peritoneum. Traced backwards, the right layer passes into the upper layer of the coronary ligament, the left into that of the left lateral ligament. It is the remains of the ventral mesentery of the embryo, and probably has no supporting or suspensory action on the liver of the adult. The lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum (omentum minus) is a fold of peritoneum wdiich extends from the liver to the lesser curvature of the stomach. (Jf its two layei's— wdiich are largely blended together in the adult—the anterior is derived from the gi'cat, the posterior from the small sac. It is attached above to the margins of the portal fissure, and also to the bottom of the fissure of the ductus venosus. Below, it is connected to the lesser curvature of the stomach, where its two layers separate to enclose that organ, and also to the upper border of the duodenum for an inch or more beyond the pylorus. Between its layers, close to its right or free border, are contained the bile duct, the hepatic artery, the portal vein, and the nerves and lymphatics passing to the portal fissure (Fig. 718). It is wide in the middle and narrow at each end. Of the two ends the right is free, and stretches from the liver to the duodenum, forming the anterior boinidary of the foramen of Winslow. The left end is very narrow, and is attached to the diaphragm between the a;sophageal and caval openings (just to the right of the reference line in Fig. 724, marked "top of small sac.") The portion of the omentum pa.s.sing between the liver and the stomach is sometimes known as the hepato-gasti-ic ligament (ligamentum hepato-gastricum), that l)etween the liver and the duodenum as the hepato-duodenal ligament (ligamentum hepato-duodenale). The round ligament (ligamentum teres hepatis) is a stout fibrous band which passes from the undjilicus backwards and upwards, within the free margin of the falciform liga- ment, to the umbilical notch of the liver, and thence back in the umbilical fissure, to join the left branch of the portal vein. It is the remains of the umbilical vein which, before birth, carries the arterial blood from the placenta to the body of the foetus (Fig. 717). The remains of the ductus venosus (ligamentum vcnosum Arantii) is a slender fibrous bundle, which passes from the left branch of the portal vein, nearly opposite the attachment of the round ligament, backwards in the fissure bearing its name, to be con- nected with the inferior vena cava as it leaves the liver. In the foetus this structure is a considerable vessel, which conveys sonu^ of the blood brought to the portal fissure by the