THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. By Ambrose Birmingham. Under this head will be described the parts which are coDuected with the reception and mastication of the food, and its digestion and passage through the body. As the greater part of the digestive system is placed within the alidomen, the description of this cavity as a whole, with that of its lining membrane the peritoneum, will be included. The different parts of the digestive system may be grouped under the following heads, viz. :— 1. The Alimentary Canal or Digestive Tube. 2. The Digestive Glands. 3. Accessory Parts. Alimentary Canal.—The alimentary canal, taken as a whole, measures about 30 feet in length (Fig. 636), and consists of the following parts in order:—mouth, pharynx, cesopliagus, stomach, small and large intestines. The mouth is the first division of the tube. It is separated from the nasal cavities above by the palate, and opens behind into the pharynx. This latter is an expanded portion of the canal lying behind both the mouth and the nasal cavity, the former opening into it through the isthmus of the fauces, the latter through the posterior nares; whilst lower down, close to the Ijase of the tongue, the aperture of the larynx is found on its anterior wall. Opposite the lower border of the larynx, • the pharynx is succeeded by the oesophagus, a long and comparatively straight portion of the digestive tube, leading through the neck and thorax to the a])domen, which it reaches by piercing the diaphragm. Immediately after entering the abdomen the tube expands into a pear-shaped dilatation, the stomach. This is followed by over 20 feet of small intestine, the junction of the two being- marked by a constriction, the pylorus. The small intestine presents three more or less arbitrary divisions—namely, (a) the duodenum, a part aliout 10 inches in length, and curved somewhat like a horse-shoe,which is closely united to the posterior abdominal waU ; (5) the jejunum, which includes the upper two-fifths, and (c) the ileum, the lower three-fifths of the small intestine beyond the duodenum. The jejunum and ileum are movably suspended from the posterior abdominal wall by the mesentery, a fan-shaped fold of the peritoneum or lining membrane of the abdominal cavity. The terminal part of the ileum opens into the side of the large intestine, a few inches (2i) from the extremity of the latter. There is thus formed a cul-de-sac, the caecum, in connexion with which is found a small worm-shaped protrusion, the vermiform appendix. The orifice through which the ileum opens into the large intestine is guarded by the ileo-csecal valve, which prevents any return of its contents from tlie large into the small bowel. After the ctecuni conies the ascending colon, whicli runs up in the right side of the abdomen. This is succeeded in order by the transverse colon crossing from right to left, the descending colon running down on the left side, the sigmoid flexure of the colon (which includes the iliac and greater part of the pelvic colons of the text), and finally the rectum, which opens on the surface at the anus. Digestive Glands. — Whilst the greater part of the alimentary canal is furnished witli numerous minute glands contained entirely within its walls.