OEGANS OF TASTE. 725 nerve growing out from the neural crest. The vesicle soon becomes pear-shaped ; its upper tapering part is named the recessus labyrinthi, and forms the future ductus endolymphaticus. About the fifth week, the lower part of the vesicle is prolonged for- wards as a tubular elongation, the future ductus cochlearis. This is at first straight, but soon becomes curved on itself, so that at the twelfth week all three coils are differentiated. From the upper part of the vesicle the semicircular canals are developed and appear as hollow disc-like evaginations, the central parts of the two walls of which coalesce and dis- appear, leaving only the peripheral rings or canals. The three canals are free about the beginning of the second month, and are developed in the following order, viz. : superior, posterior, and external. The intermediate part of the otic vesicle i-epreseuts the vestibule, and is divided by a constriction into an anterior part, the saccule, communicating with the ductus cochlearis, and a posterior portion, the utricle, receiving the extremities of the semicircular canals. The con- striction extends for some distance into the ductus endolymphaticus, and thus the utricle and saccule are only indirectly connected by a Y-shaped tube. Another constric- tion makes its appearance between the saccule and the ductus coch- learis, near its commencement, and forms the canalis reuniens of Hensen. The epithelial lining is at first columnar, but becomes cubical throughout the whole labyrinth, except opposite the terminations of the auditory nerve, where it forms the columnar epithelium of the maculte of the utricle and saccule^ of the cristae ampullae, and of the organ of Corti. On the floor of the ductus cochlearis two ridges appear, of which the inner forms the limbus laminae spiralis, whilst the cells of the outer become modified to form the rods of Corti, the hair cells, and the supporting cells of Deiters and Hensen. The mesoderm surrounding the otic vesicle is differentiated into: (1) a fibrous layer, the wall of the membranous labyrinth; (2) a cartilaginous external capsule, the future petrous bone; and (3) an intervening layer of gelatinous tissue, which is ultimately absorbed to form the perilymphatic space between the bony and membranous labyrinths. ORGANS OF TASTE. The peripheral organs of the sense of taste (organon gustus) consist of groups of modified epithehal cells, termed the taste buds, vrhich are found on certain parts of the tongue and its immediate neighbourhood. Taste buds are present in large numbers around the circumference of the papillae vallatte, while some are also found on their opposing vs^alls (Fig. 533). They are very numerous over the fimbrise linguse, which correspond with the papillae foliatse of the tongue of the rabbit, and are also found over the posterior part and sides of the tongue, either on the papillae fungiformes or throughout the stratified epithelium. They exist, also, on the buccal surface of the soft palate and on the posterior aspect of the epiglottis. Structure of Taste Buds (Fig. 534).—They are oval or flask-shaped, and occupy nests in the stratified epithelium of the regions mentioned. The deep extremity of each is somewhat expanded and rests upon the corium; the free end is perforated by a minute pore, termed the gustatory pore. They consist of modified epithelial cells, which are grouped under the two varieties of—(a) supporting cells, and (1) gustatory cells (Fig. 535). The supporting cells are elongated, nucleated B Fig. 532. A, Left labyrinth of a human embryo of aboiit four weeks ; B, Left labyrinth of a human embryo of about Ave weeks (from W. His, jun.).