446 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. decussation of the pyramidal tracts, which takes place about the level of the foramen magnum. Erom this it proceeds upwards in a very nearly vertical direction, and ends at the lower border of the pons Varolii. At first its girth is similar to that of the cord, but it rapidly expands as it approaches the pons, and consequently it presents a mere or less conical form. Its ventral surface lies behind the grooved surface of the basilar portion of the occipital bone, whilst its dorsal surface is sunk into the vallecula of Optic nerve Optic chiasma- Optic tract. Corpus geniculatum externuii Corpus geniculatun internum Locus perforatus posticus Middle peduncle of the cerebellum Restiform body Olive Pyrauiitl Anterior superficial arcuate fibres Decussation of pyramids Infundibulum Tuber cinereum ■Corpora mammillaria Oculo-motor nerve (III.) Trochlear nerve (IV.) winding round the eras cerebri Trigeminal nerve (V.) Abducent nerve (VI.) Facial nerve (VII.) Auditory nerve (VIII.) Vago-glossopharyngeal nerve (IX. and X.) Hypoglossal nerve (XII.) Spinal accessory nerve (XI.) First cervical nerve Pig. 332.—Front View op the Medulla, Pons, and Mesencephalon op PULL-TIME Human Fcetus. the cereliellum. The medulla oblongata is a bilateral structure, and this is indicated on the surface by a continuation upwards of the antero-median and postero - median fissures of the cord on the ventral and dorsal aspects of the medulla. The antero-median groove (fissura medi- ana anterior), as it passes from the cord on to the medulla, is interrupted at the level of the foramen magnum by several strands of fibres, which cross the mesial plane from one side to the other. This intercrossing is termed the decussation of the pyramids. Above this level the furrow is carried upwards to the lower border of the pons. Here it expands slightly and ends in a blind pit, which receives the name of the foramen caecum of Vicq d'Azyr. The postero-median fissure (fissura mediana posterior) is only carried up on the lower half of the medulla. As it ascends it rapidly becomes shallower, and, halfway up, the central canal of the cord opens on the dorsal surface of the medulla. At this point the lips of' the postero-median fissure are thrust apart from each other and constitute the boundaries of a triangular field, which is thus opened up on the dorsal aspect of the medulla. This triangular field is the lower part of the fossa rhomboidalis, or the floor of the fourth ventricle of the brain. The lower half of the medulla, containing as it does the continuation of the central canal of the cord, is frequently termed the closed part of the medulla; the upper half, above the opening of the canal, which by its dorsal surface forms the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, is often called the open part of the medulla. Deferring for the present the examination of the medullary part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, the appearance presented by the surface of each side of the medulla, from the antero-median fissure in front to the postero-median fissure and the lateral limit of the floor of the fourth ventricle behind, may now engage our attention. In the spinal cord the corresponding surface area is divided into three districts or columns by the emerging motor roots and the entering sensory roots of the spinal nerves. Of these the latter enter along the bottom of the postero-lateral groove, whilst the motor fascicles are spread over a relatively broad surface area and have no groove in connexion with their emergence from the cord. In the case of the medulla corresponding rows of nerve-fascicles enter and emerge from the surface of each ,side. The efferent fascicles are the root-bundles of the hypoglossal nerve, and they carry up the line of the anterior nerve-roots of the cord. In one respect, however, they differ; they emerge in linear order and along the bottom of a distinct furrow, termed the antero-lateral furrow, which