THE RESriRATORY SYSTEM. 918 however, j^i'eveuts the oedema extending l^eyond tlie level of the rinia glottidis, and the surgeon is thus able to relieve tlie patient by making an ojjening througli the front part of tlie crico- thyroid memljrane into the lower compartment of the larynx. Above the level of the rima glottidis the laryngeal mucous iueml)raue is extremely sensitive, and when touched by a foreign body there is an immediate response in the shape of an explosive cough. In the lower compartment of the larynx the mucous membrane is lined by columnar ciliated epithelium. Over the true vocal cords this is replaced by squamous epithelium. In the middle compart- ment and in the lower part of the vestibule of the larynx the columnar ciliated epithelium again reappears. The upper part of the epiglottis and the upper parts of the side walls of the vestibule are covered l)y squamous epithelium similar to that present in the mouth and pharynx. Tlie mucous membrane of the larynx has a plentiful supply of acinose glands, and in only one place, viz. over the surface of the true vocal cords, are these com- pletely absent. For the most part the glands are aggregated in groups. The following are the localities in which these groups are especially noticeable :—(1) On the dorsal surface of the epiglottis, many of the glands piercing the cartilage; (2) around the cuneiform cartilage, where they are chiefly responsible for the elongated elevation seen in this part of the wall of the vestibule; (3) in the false vocal cord, and over the wall of the laryngeal sinus and theyirf ngea] saccule. LARYNGEAL MUSCLES. Under this heading we do not include all the muscles whicli are attached to the cartilages of the larynx. Thus the inferior constrictor muscles of the pliarynx, although attached to both cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle on each side, although inserted in part into the thyroid cartilage, properly l)elong to the pharynx. Of the laryngeal muscles proper two are attached to the ol)lique line of the thyroid cartilage (viz. the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid), and are concerned in producing movements of the larynx as a whole. These are termed tlie extrinsic muscles of the larynx, and have been already described (p. 912). The intrinsic muscles of tire larynx are a group of small muscles which help to build up tlie laryngeal wall and which move the laryngeal cartilages on each other. One jjasses between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages—the crico-thyroid muscle; two pass between the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages—the crico-arytenoideus posticus ami crico-arytenoideus lateralis; one, in the lateral wall of the larynx, under cover of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, passes between the thyroid and the arytenoid cartilages—the thyro-arytenoid. These muscles are in pairs. One muscle only, which connects the two arytenoid cartilages, and which is termed in consequence the arytenoideus, is single. In addition to these, some muscular flbres which enter the aryteno-epiglottidean fold and reach the'epiglottis require to l)e considered. These constitute the thyro-ary-epiglottidean muscle. The crico-thyroid muscle (musculus crico- thyreoideus) is placed on the cricoid cartilage, and l)ridges over the crico-thyroid interval. Taking origin from the lower border and outer surface of the anterior arch of the cricoid cartilage, its fibres spread out in an upward and backward direction, and are inserted into the inner surface and lower margin of the thyroid cartilage, and also into the anterior aspect of its inferior cornu. As a general rule it is divided into two parts, viz.: (1) an anterior or oblique part, composed of those fibres which are inserted into the ala of the thyroid cartilage; and (2) a posterior or horizontal part formed of those fibres which are inserted into the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. It is closely associated with the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and sometimes shows a certain amount of con- tinuity with it. KiG. 62].—Thk Crico-thykoid Musci.k.