253 LIGAMENTS OF THE VEKTEBEAL COLUMN. It is not necessary to suppose that the synovial membrane has disappeared from these articular cartilages as the result of friction, because, notwithstanding constant friction, such parts as the interior of capsular ligaments or the semilunar cartilages of the knee- joint have not been denuded of their synovial covering. MORPHOLOGY OF LIGAMENTS. From what has been said in connection with the development of joints, it will be evident that ligaments are essentially products derived from the cellular articular disc. Nevertheless, in relation to the fully-formed joint, many structures are described as ligaments, which do not take origin in the manner just indicated. Some of these ligamentous structures remain fairly distinct from the capsular ligaments with which they are immediately associated ; others become thoroughly incorporated with the capsular ligaments and cannot be separated therefrom, while yet others may be found situated within the capsule of a joint, and thus iJlay the part of interarticular ligaments. Instances of each of these forms of adventitious ligaments may be readily given. For example, we may instance the expansion of the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle to the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and the offshoots from the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle to the plantar aspects of various tarsal bones, as illustrations of structures which play an important part as ligaments, but are not indelilily incorporated with the joint caj)sule. Of structures which have become indelibly incorporated with the primitive cajjsule, we may instance the broad tendinous expansions of the cpiadriceps extensor muscle around the knee-joint. The internal lateral ligament of the same joint is regarded as a detached portion of the tendon belonging to that part of the adductor magnus muscle which takes origin from the ischium, while the external lateral ligament of the knee is considered by some to be the primi- tive femoral origin of the peroneus longus muscle. Another illustration of the same condition is found in the coraco-humeral ligament, which is regarded by some as representing a detached portion of the pectoralis minor muscle. Two illustrations may be given of structures j^laying the part of ligaments within the capsule of a joint, although in the first instance they are not cleveloped as ligaments. It is questionable if the ligamentum teres of the hip-joint is an interarticular ligament in the true sense of the term ; it has been regarded as the isolated and displaced tendon of the ambiens muscle found in birds. In the shoulder-joint, many observers look upon the superior gleno-humeral ligament as rejjiresentative of the ligamentum teres. Such structures as the stylohyoid ligament and the internal lateral ligament of the temporo- mandibular joint, although described as ligaments, are in reality skeletal parts which have not attained their complete ossific development. Again, certain portions of the deep or muscular fascia of the body which become specialised into restraining and supporting bands {e.g. the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata ; the stylo-inandi- bular ligament; the anterior and posterior annular ligaments of the wrist-joint; the anterior, inner, and outer annular ligaments of the ankle-joint), although called ligaments, have no direct developmental association with articular ligaments. Lastly, the ligament of Poupart and th.e ligament of Gimbernat, being special developments in connection with an expanded tendon or aj^oneurosis, are still further removed from associa- tion with an articulation. LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBEAL COLUMN AND SKULL. All vertebrae, with the exception of those which deviate from the common vertebral type, present two sets of articulations whose various parts are arranged upon a uniform pattern. Thus every pair of typical vertebrae presents an articula- tion between the centra, termed intercentral, and a pair of articulations between the neural arches, called interneural. With the latter there are associated various important accessory ligaments which bind together laminae, spinous processes, and transverse processes. Intercentral Articulations.—These are amphiarthrodial joints. Singly, they present only a slight degree of mobility, but when this amount of movement is added to that of the whole series, the range of movement of the spine becomes considerable. The articular surfaces are the flattened surfaces of adjacent vertebral bodies. They are bound together by the following structures:— Intervertebral Discs (fibro-cartilagines intervertebrales, Fig. 198).—Each disc accommodates itself to the space it occupies between the two vertebral bodies, to both of which it is firmly adherent. The discs, from different parts of the spinal column, vary in vertical thickness, being thinnest from the third to the seventh dorsal vertebra, and thickest in the lumbar region. In the cervical and lumbar regions each disc is thicker in front than behind, thereby assisting in the production of the