BLOOD SINUSES OF THE CKANIUM. 839 Blood Sinuses of the Cranium. The venous sinuses of the cranium are spaces between the layers of the dura mater; they are hned by an eudothehum which is continuous with the endothehum of the veins. They receive the veins of the brain, communicate frequently with the meningeal veins and with veins external to the cranium, and terminate directly or indirectly in the internal jugular vein. Some of the cranial blood sinuses are unpaired, others are paired. Unpaired. Sinuses.—These are the superior longitudinal, the inferior longi- tudinal, the straight, the circular, and the basilar. The superior longitudinal sinus (sinus sagittalis superior) commences in the Vena magna Galeni Inferior longitudinal sinus straight sinus Superior longitudinal sinus uperior petrosal sinus ^Cavernous sinus tacial nerve Lateral sinus Occipital sinus Sup. oblique muscL Occipital artery— Princeps cervieis artery Vertebral artery Coniplexus muscle Suboccipital nerve Sterno-niastoid muscle Splenius capitis muscle Po.sterior auricular artery External carotid lutery j Parotid gland Stylo-hyoid muscle - Hypoglossal nerve Internal carotid artery Digastric muscle (posterior belly) Traohelo- mastoid muscle Spinal Internal Sterno-mastoid Common carotid artery accessory nerve jugular vein artery Fig. 582.—Dissection op the Head and Neck, showing the cranial blood sinuses ami the upper part of the internal jugular vein. anterior fossa of the cranium, at the crista galli, where it communicates through the foramen csecum with the veins of the nasal cavity or with the angular vein. It passes upwards, then backwards, and finally downwards in the convex margin of the falx cerebri, grooving the frontal, parietal, and upper part of the occipital bones. As it descends it passes sHghtly to the right side, and it ends at the level of the internal occipital protuberance by becoming the right lateral sinus. Instead of passing to the right, it occasionally turns to the left, and ends in the left lateral sinus. In either case its termination is associated with a well-marked dilatation, the torcular Herophili, which marks a confluence of sinuses, and which is lodged in a depression at one side of the internal occipital protuljerance. The torcular is connected, across the protuberance, by an anastomosing channel with a similar dilatation, which marks the junction of the straight sinus with the lateral sinus of the opposite side.