538 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. liorizontal section, it presents a shape similar to that of a biconvex lens. Its inner surface bulges more than the outer surface, and its point of highest convexity is placed opposite the taenia semi- circularis or the in- terval between the caudate nucleus and the optic thalamus. In coronal section the appearance pre- sented by the len- ticular nucleus differs very much in different planes of section. 401 represents Genu of corp\is eallosuni Anterior liorn of lateral ventricle Caiulate nucleus- Antericir limb of internal. capsule Ventricle V Genu of internal capsule. Anterior pillars of fornix.^ Globus pallidiis Claustruni Insula Putamen Bundle of Vicq d'Azyr Posterior limb of internal caps\)le Thalamus Retrolenticular part of internal capsule Hippocampus majoi- Splenium Choroid plexu band of Vicq d'Azyi Calcarine tissurp— Fig. section through its anterior portion. Here it is semi- lunar or crescentic in outline and is directly continuous below with the head of the caudate nucleus; above, also, it is inti- mately connected with the caudate nucleus by bands of gray matter, which pass be- tween the two nuclei and break up the white matter of the fore- part of the inter- vening internal capsule. It is due to the ribbed or barred appearance, which is presented by such a sectiou as this, that the term corpus striatum is applied to the two nuclei. In the region of the locus perforatus anticus both nuclei reach the surface and become continuous witli the cortex. When a section is made in a plane further back {e.g. immediately posterior to the anterior commissure, as in Fig. 402) the divided lenticular nucleus assumes an altogether different shape, and is seen to be completely cut off from the caudate nucleus by the internal capsule. It is now triangular or wedge-shaped. Its hase is turned towards the island of Eeil and is in direct relation to a thin lamina of white matter, termed the external capsule. Its internal surface is oblique and is applied to the internal capsule, whilst its inferior surface is horizontal and is directed downwards towards the base of the brain. But, further, two white laminte, the external and internal medullary laminae, are now evident, which traverse its substance in a vertical direction and divide it into three zones. The outer, basal, and larger zone is termed the putamen ; the two inner portions together constitute the globus pallidus. The putamen forms much the largest part of the lenticular nucleus. It is Fig. 400.—Horizo>'tal Section through the Right Cerebral Hemisphere AT the Level of the Widest Part of the Lenticular Nucleus.