232 OSTEOLOGY. Appears about. 3-4 years ossify about the third or fourth year, and union with tlie shaft is not complete until a Fuses with shaft period somcvvhat later than that for the inferior ^.out 20-24 years epiphysis. The mode of ossification of the lower extremity is an exception to the general rule that epiphyses which are the first to ossify are the last to unite with the shaft. In its earlier stages of development it has been stated, on tlie authority of Leboucq, Gegenbauer, and others, that the fibula as well as the tibia is in contact with the femur. This is, however, denied by Grunbaum (" Proc. Anat. Soc," Journ. Anat. and Physiol., vol. xxvi. p. 22), who states that after the sixth week the fibula is not in contact with the femur, and that jjrior to that date it is impossible to differentiate the tissue which is to form femur from that which forms fibula. Variations.—The fibula may be ridged and grooved in a remarkable manner, as is the case in many bones of pre- historic race.s. This is j^robably associated with a greater or perhaps more active develoimient of the muscles attached to it. The superior articular facet varies much in size. Ben- nett (Dublin Journ. Med. Sc., Aug. 1891) records a case in which it was double, and also notes the occurrence of specimens in which it was absent and in which the head of the l)one did not reach as high as the tibial tuberosity. Many instances of partial or complete absence of the bone have been published. (Lefebre, P., Contribution a VMude de Vabsence congenitale du perone. Lille. 1895.) Appears about 2ii<l year At birtli. Fig. 172. Fuses witli sliafl about 19 years About About 12 j'ears. 16 years. -Ossification of Fibul.a. BONES OF THE FOOT. The bones of the foot, twenty-six in number, are arranged in three groups: the tars il, seven in number; the metatarsal, five in number; the phalanges, fourteen in number. Comparing the foot with the hand, the student will be struck with the great pro- portionate size of the tarsus as compared with the carpus, and the reduction in size of the bones of the toes as compared witli the fingers. The size o"f the metatarsal segment more nearly equals that of the metacarpus. The Tarsus. The tarsus (ossa tarsi) consists of seven bones—the astragalus, os calcis, navi- cular or scaphoid, three cuneiforms, and the cuboid. Of. irregular form and varying size, they may be described as roughly cubical, presenting for examination dorsal and plantar surfaces as well as anterior, posterior, internal, and external aspects. The AsTRAGAiiUS. The astragalus (talus) is the bone through which the body weight is trans- mitted from the leg al)ove to the foot below. Superiorly the tibia rests upon it,, whilst on either side it articulates with the internal and external malleolar pi'ocesses of the tibia and fibula respectively ; inferiorly it overlies th^ os calcis, and anteriorly it articulates with the navicular. For descriptive purposes the bone is divisible into two parts—the body (corpus tali) blended in front with the neck (collum tali), which supports the head (caput tali). The tcpper s^irface of the body is provided with a saddle-shaped articular surface (troclilea tali), broader in front tlian behind, for articulation with the under surface of the tibia. The inner edge of the trochlea is straight; whilst the outer border, which is sharp in front and more rounded behind, is curved inwards posteriorly, where it is bevelled to form a narrow, elongated, triangular facet, which is in contact with the transverse or inferior tibio-fibular ligament during flexion of the ankle