911 JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LAEYNX. vocalis. It receives this name because it gives attachmeut to the inferior thyro- arytenoid ligament or supporting band of the true vocal cord. The base of the arytenoid cartilage presents on its under surface, and more particularly on the under surface of the processus muscularis, an elongated concave facet for articulation with the upper Ijorder of the posterior lamina of the cricoid cartilage. Cartilages of Santorini (cartilagines corniculata?;.—The cartilages of Santorini, or the cornicula laryngis, are two minute conical nodules of yellow elastic cartilage which surmount the apices of the arytenoids, and prolong tlie upper curved ends of these cartilages in a backward and inward direction. Each cartilage of Santorini is enclosed within the posterior part of the corresponding aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous memljrane. Cuneiform Cartilages (cartilagines cuneiformes).—The cuneiform cartilages are not invariably present. They are two minute rod-shaped pieces of yellow elastic cartilage, each of which occupies a place in the corresponding aryteno- epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane immediately in front of the arytenoid cartilage and the cartilage of Santorini. On the superhcial surface of each a collec- tion of mucous glands is present, and this tends to make the cartilage stand out in relief under the mucous membrane. Epiglottidean Cartilage (cartilago epiglottica).—The epiglottis is supported l)y a thin leaf-like lamina of yellow fibro-cartilage which is placed behind the root of the tongue and the body of the hyoid Ijone, and in front of the superior aperture of the larynx. When divested of the mucous membrane, which covers it liehind and also to some extent in front, the epiglottidean cartilage is seen to present the outline of a bicycle-saddle, and to be indented by pits and pierced by numerous perforations. In the former, glands are lodged, whilst through the latter, blood-vessels and in some cases nerves pass. The broad end of the cartilage is directed upwards, and is free. Its margins are, to a large extent, enclosed within the aryteno-epiglottidean folds of mucous memljrane. The anterior surface is only free in its upper part. This part is covered with mucous membrane, and looks towards the base of the tongue. The posterior surface is covered throughout its whole extent by the lining mucous membrane of the laryngeal cavity. The lower pointed extremity of the cartilage is carried downwards in the form of a strong fibrous band, termed the thyro-epiglottidean ligament. Ossification of the Cartilages of the Larynx. — The thyroid and cricoid cartilages and the greater part of the arytenoid cartilages are composed of the hyaline variety of cartilage. The apical parts, and also the vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages, the cartilages of Santorini, the cuneiform cartilages, and the epiglottis, are formed of yellow fibro-cartilage, and at no period of life do they exhibit any tendency towards the ossific change. The thyroid, cricoid, and liasal portions of the arytenoids, as life advances, become more or less completely transformed into bone. In males over twenty years of age, and in females over twenty-two years of age, the process will usually be found to have begun (Chievitz). It is impossible, however, by an examination of the laryngeal cartilages, to form an estimate of the age of the individual, although in old age it is usual to tind the thyroid, cricoid, and the hyaline part of the arytenoid completely ossified. It would appear that the process is somewhat slower in the female than in the male. The thyroid is the first to show the change ; then, but almost at the same time, the cricoid, and lastly, a few years later, the arytenoid. JOINTS, LIGAMENTS, AND MEMBRANES OF THE LARYNX. Crico-thyroid Joints (articulationes cricothyreoidese).—These are diarthrodial joints, and are formed by the apposition of the cii'cular facets on the tips of the inferior cornua of the thyroid cartilage with the elevated circular facets on the sides of the cricoid cartilage. A capsular ligament is thrown around each articula- tion, and this is lined by synovial membrane. On the posterior aspect of the joint a strengthening band is present in the capsule. The movements which take place at the crico-thyroid joints are of a twofold character, viz. gliding and rotatory. In the first case the thyroid facets glide upon the cricoid surfaces in different directions. The rotatory movement is one in which the thyroid cartilage rotates to a slight extent around a transverse axis which passes through the centre of the two joints.