864 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. (1) The intracranial lymphatics are (a) the cerebral and (b) the meningeal. («) The cerebral lymphatic vessels commenca in the substance of the brain as perivascular spaces round the branches of the cerebral arteries; they accompany the cerebral branches of the internal carotid and the vertebral arteries, and, leaving the skull with the main arterial trunks and the internal jugular vein, terminate in the upper deep cervical glands. (5) The meningeal lymphatic vessels coiu- mence in the substance <if the dura mater; they accompany the meningeal blood- vessels, and they ter- minate in the internal maxillar}' glands and in the upper deep cervical glands. (2) The extra- cranial lymphatics are either (a) super- ficial or (b) deep, and the two sets anasto- mose freely together. (ft) The superficial lymphatic vessels com- mence in the sub- cutaneous tissues and in the superficial muscles of the face and scalp. (b) The deep lym- phatic vessels originate ill the walls of the nose and mouth, in the tongue, in the walls of the pharynx, the oesophagus, the larynx and trachea, in Fig. .59?..—Lymph.\tic Vessels .\nd Gl.\nds of the Head and Neck. ^^^^ . contents ot the The ileep lymphatics are coloured red, the .superticial black. lu each set Orbital and other tlie art'erent vessels are shown in continuous lines ; the efferent and inter- extracranial fosScB and glandular vessels are represented by dotted lines. B. Buccal glands. P. Superficial parotid glands. D.C. Deep cervical glands. S. Submaxillary glands. I.L. luft-adaryngeal glands. S.C. Superficial cervical glands. M. Mastoid glands. S.M. Submental glands. O. Occipital glands. T. Tracheal glands. Z. Zygomatic glands. in the muscles, bones, and ligaments of the neck. All the extracranial lymphatic vessels, both superficial and deep, are afferents to some of the glands of the head or neck, and their general distribu- tion and terminations are mentioned in connexion with the glands with which they are ass(jciated. The lymphatic glands of the head include the followmg :—■ The occipital glands (lyniphogiandulce occipitales), two or three in number, are embedded in the superficial fascia over the upper part of the trapezius muscle. They receive afferent vessels from the occipital region of the scalp and from the superficial parts of the upper and back portion of the neck, and their cfferents termiuate in the superficial cervical glands. The mastoid glands (lyniphoglandulfe auriculares posteriores) lie in the super- ficial fascia on the upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle and on the mastoid