1117 THE PROSTATE. —Bladder apex Infero-iateral area Urethra Ureter The uj)per surface, or base of the prostate (basis prostata;), is directed upwards agaiust the under aspect of the bladder, in the neighbourhood of its urethral open- ing. The greater part of this surface is structurally continuous with the bladder wall, the separation of the two organs being purely artificial. A narrow portion of the superior surface is, however, free on each side, and forms the lowfer limit of the deep groove which marks the separation of the bladder and prostate (Fig. 763). The lateral surface of the prostate is convex and prominent, especially in its posterior and upper portion, and rests against the fascia covering the levator ani muscle. The lateral surfaces are directed for the most part outwards, down- wards, and somewhat forwards, and meet together in front in a rounded anterior border, often called the "anterior surface" (facies anterior) of the prostate. Posteriorly the prostate presents a flattened triangular area, directed backwards and downwards against the anterior wall of the rectum, from which it is separated by a layer of the pelvic fascia. This flattened posterior surface (facies posterior) is separated on each side from the lateral surface V)y a rounded border which, begin- ning above at the prominent lateral part of the prostate, ends below at the apex of the organ. The apex of the prostate (apex prostata?) points downwards, and is in relation to the deep or superior layer of the triangular ligament. From the apex the rounded anterior border, which separates the lateral surfaces, passes upwards in the middle line behind the symphysis pubis and retro- pubic pad of fat. This border is inter- rupted in its lower part by the passage of the urethra. The urethra enters the prostate at a point near the middle of its upper surface, and leaves it at a point situated on its anterior border, just above and in front of the apex. As it descends, the urethra describes a curve which is concave forwards, and in mesial section it is seen to lie nearer to the posterior surface than to the anterior border of the gland. The common ejaculatory ducts, en- tering the prostate at the border which separates the base from the posterior surface, run downwards, inwards, and forwards, to open into the prostatic portion of the urethra very close to one another. The somewhat wedge-shaped portion of the prostate, which lies between these ducts and the posterior aspect of the urethra, receives the name of middle lobe (lobus medius, F-ig. 766). The base of this middle lobe projects upwards against the bladder, and is continuous with the part of the bladder wall lying immediately liehind the urethral orifice. When hypertrophied (as it often is in old people) the middle lobe of the prostate may cause a consideralile elevation in the cavity of the bladder, to which the term uvula vesicte is applied, and which possesses consideralile surgical interest. The rest of the prostate is described as l)eing composed of tw^o large lateral portions or lateral lobes, which are, however, not marked otf from one another superficially. The prostate is surrounded in front and laterally by a plexus of large veins which lies embedded within its capsule, and is called the prostatic venous plexus. Structure of the Prostate.—The greater bulk of the prostate is composed of unstriped muscle fibres. The muscular tissue not only forms the outer layers of the prostate, but it also sends into the deeper parts numerous processes which spread through the whole structure as a network, in the meshes of which the glandular part of the organ is contained. Posteriorly some of the muscle fibres are continuous wdth those of the bladder. The glandular tissue (corpus glandulare) of the prostate, which is practically confined to the part of the organ which lies Seminal vesicle Fig. 764.—Prostate, Bladder, and Seminal Vesicles seen from below. Drawn from a specimen hardened in iitu. The lateral surfaces of the prostate are seen one on each side of the nrethra and in front of the posterior surface.