1216 SUEFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. Vastus exteruus Quailriceps extensor U-udoii I'atrlla lixteriial tuberosity of tibia Lis; Tubercle of tibia Peroueu: fragment is liable to perforate the «kiii. Tlie skin over the lower half of this surface is the commonest seat of varicose and callous ulcers, which are frequently prevented from healing by adliesion of the floor of the ulcer to the periosteum. The shaft of the fibula, situated on a plane posterior to that of the tibia, is, with tlie exception of the triangular subcutaneous surface above the external malleolus, deeply placed amongst the muscles. To examine the fibula, the surgeon should stand on the opposite side of the patient and manipu- late the bone along the line of the intermuscular septum between the peronei and the muscles of the calf. The greater fulness of the antero-external surface of the leg, as compared with nuentum patellae inner surfacc, is due to the presence of the extensor and peroneal groups of muscles. When these groups are thrown into action, the individual muscles are mapped out upon the surface by the grooves corresponding to their intermuscular septa. The posterior peroneal sep- tum is seen as a well-marked furrow, extending from the posterior aspect of the head of the fibula to the hollow behind the external mal- leolus ; in front of it are the peronei muscles, the longus giving rise to a pro- minence on the upper half of the leg, while the brevis is jtrominent on the lower half; behind the septum is a prominence formed by the outer border of the soleus, which projects beyond that of the gastro- cnemius. It is along the line of the posterior peroneal inter- muscular septum that incisions should be made to the musculo-cutaneous nerve, however, the incision 1 in. below the head of the fibula, extensors and the two peronei, the anterior peroneal and runs in a line from the anterior border of the )order of the external malleolus; the cutaneous Peroneus tertius Tip of I'xtenja" lualleolu; Fig. 819.—OinKii A.si'ixx expose the hbula; to avoid must not extend higher than The furrow between tlie septum, is much less distinct. Knee and Leg. head of the fil)ula to the anterior portion of the musculo-cutaneous nerve correspt)nds to the lower half ot this line. At the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the leg the extensor muscles incline inwards over the anterior surface of the tibia. The anterior tibial artery reaches the front of the interosseous membrane 2 in. below the tubercle of the tiliia ; in the upper two-thirds of its course it lies upon the