193 THE EADIUS. inferior surface of tlie head of the ulna does not articuhite witli the carpus, but rests on the upper surface of tlie interposed triangular fibro-cartilage. The ulna is superficial throughout its entire extent. Superiorly the olecranon process can be readily recognised, particularly when the elbow is bent, as in this position the olecranon is withdrawn from the olecranon fossa of the humerus in which it rests when the Joint is extended. Below this the suljcutaneous triangular area on the back of the olecranon can be easily determined, and from it-the posterior border of the bone can readily Ije traced along the line of the " ulnar furrow " to the styloid jarocess below. With the hand supine tliis latter jirocess can be felt to the inner side and slightly behind the wi'ist. When the hand is jironated, the lowei' end of the radius rolls round the lower extremity of the ulna, and the ])Osterior sui'face of tlie head of the latter bone now forms a well-marked projection on the back of the wrist in line with the cleft between the little and ring fingers. Architecture.—The weakest parts of the bone are the constricted portion of the great sigmoid cavity, and tlie shaft in its lower third, the bone being most liable to fracture at these points. On section the medullary cavity is seen to extend upwards as high as the base of the cor.onoid process; inferiorly it reaches as low as the upjier end of the lower fifth of the bone. The walls of the shaft, which are formed of dense bone, are much thicker posteriorly than anteriorly. Above they are continuous with the front of the coronoid process and the back of the olecranon, ■where they are composed of layers of looser texture, which, however, gradually Ijecome thinner as the ijoints of these processes are reached. Inferiorly they gradually taper until the head and' styloid jjrocess are reached, round which they form a thin shell, considerably thickened, however, in the region of the groove for the extensor car2)i ulnaris muscle. The bulk of the upper extremity is formed of loose cellular bone, arranged in a series of arcades, stretching from the anterior to the posterior wall over the upper end of the medullary canal. Above the constricted part of the great sigmoid cavity the bone displays a different structure; here it is formed of spongy bone, of closer texture, arranged generally in lines radial to the articular surface. At the point of constriction of the great sigmoid cavity, the layer immediately subjacent is much denser and more compact. The lower fifth of the bone is formed of loose spongy bone, the fibres of which have a general longitudinal arrangement; towards its extremity the meshes become smaller. Variations.—Cases of partial or comjilete absence of the ulna through congenital defect have been recorded. Rosenmiiller has descrilied a case in which the oleciunon was separated from the upper end of the bone, resembling thus in some respects the patella. In powerfully developed bones there is a tendency to the formation of a sharp projecting crest corresponding to the inser- tion of the tiiceps. Ossification.—'J'lie ulna is ossified from one priniar\' and two or more secondarv centres. The centre for tlie shaft appears eai'ly in the second month of foetal life. At birth the shaft and a considerable part of the upper extremity, including the coronoid process, are ossified, as well as part of the lower extremity. The olecranon process and the inferior surface of the head and the styloid process are cartilaginous. About ten years of age a secondary centre appears in the cartilage at the upper ^end of the bone, and forms an epiphysis which unites with the shaft about sixteen. A scale-like centre appears in the cartilage of the bead about the sixth ye;ir, from which the under surface of that part of the bone is developed, and by tlie extension of which the styloid process is also ossified ; this epiphysis does not unite with the shaft till the twentieth or twenty-third year. Independent centres for the styloid process and for the extreme edge of the olecranon have also been described. The student may here be warned that the epiphysial line between the shaft and superior or olecranon epiphysis does not correspond to thC' constricted part of the great sigmoid cavity, but lies considerably above it. The Eadius. The radius, or outer bone of the forearm, is shorter than the ulna, with which it is united on the inner side. Superiorly it articulates with the humerus, and 13 FiLses with sliaft about lU years Fust'.s with shaft 20-Ti years At Birtli. About 1'2 years. About 16 years. Fio. 136.—The Ossification of the Ulna.