670 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. the second or fourth sacral nerves, enter the pelvic plexus without l)eing directly connected with the gangliated cord. These nerves, however, are to be regarded as homologous with the white rami communicantes of the thoracico-lumbar nerves {abdominal splanchnic). They convey to the pelvic viscera—(1) motor and inhibitory fibres for rectum, uterus, and bladder, (2) vaso-dilator lil:)res for the genitals, and (3) secretory fibres for the prostate gland. This portion of the cord is placed in front of the sacrum, internal to the anterior sacral foramina. It is connected above by a commissural cord with the lum])ar portion of the sympathetic, and Ijelow it ends in a plexiform union over the coccyx with the cord of the other side, the two being frequently connected by the ganglion impar or coccygeal ganglion. The number of ganglia is varial )le ; there are commonly four. They are of small size, gradually diminishing from above down- wards. Central communicating branches arise irregularly in the form of gray rami communicantes from the sacral ganglia, and join the anterior primary divisions of the sacral and coccygeal nerves. Peripheral Branches of Distribution.—(1) Visceral branches of small size arise from the upper part of the gangliated cord, and pass inwards to join the pelvic plexus (see below). (2) Parietal branches, also of small size, ramify over the front of the sacrum, and form, in relation to the middle sacral artery, a plexiform union with 1 tranches from the gangliated cord of the otlier side. SYMPATHETIC PLEXUSES. It has already been seen that the peripheral branches of the sympathetic gangliated ,cord throughout its length are characterised by forming or joining plexuses in their neighbourhood. The cervical sympathetic ganglia and nerves give rise to the carotid and cavernous plexuses; the external carotid, pharyngeal, thyroid, vertebral, and subclavian plexuses ; and they send important Ijranches to the cardiac plexuses (described aloug with the pneumogastric nerve). The thoracic ganglia send branches to join the pulmonary and cesophageal plexuses (described along with the pneumogastric nerve). They form plexuses on the thoracic aorta, and by means of the splanchnic nerves they form the chief source of the solar plexus. The Solar and Pelvic Plexuses. These great plexuses serve to distribute nerves to the viscera and vessels of the abdominal and pelvic cavities. Taken together they include three plexuses—the solar plexus, hypogastric plexus, and the pelvic plexuses. They are constituted by peripheral Itranches of the lower thoracic, lumbar, and upper sacral parts of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic; and they are related to the central nervous system by means of the visceral branches (white rami communicantes) of the lower thoracic and iipper lumbar nerves on the one hand, and by the visceral branches of the second and third, or third and fourth sacral nerves, on the other hand. The former series join the sympathetic cord, and reach the solar plexus through the ■ splanchnic nerves mainly, to a lesser extent through the luml)ar gangliated cord. The latter series enter the pelvic plexus without connexion with the sympathetic cord. The hypogastric plexus serves as a connecting link between the solar and pelvic plexuses. The solar plexus lies on the posterior al)dominal wall behind the stomach. It is composed of three elements: the coeliac plexus surrounding the origin of the coeliac axis between the crura of the diaphragm, and two semilunar ganglia, each lying on the corresponding crus of the diaphragm, and overlapped Ity the supra- renal capsule, and on the right side by the inferior vena cava. The plexus is continuous with subordinate plexuses, diaphragmatic, suprarenal, renal, superior mesenteric and aortic ; and by means of the hypogastric nerves the aortic plexus