THE VEINS. 825 doi'sal digital branch which passes beneath the tendon of the extensoi- hallucis to the inner side of the great toe. (5) Tlie princeps hallucis (plantar digital artery) springs from the termination of the dorsalis j^edis in the sole of the foot; it runs forwards in the plantar part of the first interosseous space, and divides at the interdigital cleft into collateral digital branches for the supply of the adjacent sides of the first and second toes on their plantar aspects. Before its division it supplies a plantar digital branch to the inner side of the great toe. THE VEINS. Veins commence at the terminations of the capillaries. They converge towards the heart, and unite with one another to form larger and still larger vessels, until finally seven large trunks are formed which open into the auricles of the heart. Three of these, the superior vena cava, the inferior vena cava, and the coronary sinus, belong to the systemic circulation; they contain venous blood, and open into the right auricle. The remaining four belong to the imlmonary circulation ; they return arterialised blood from the lungs, and open into the left auricle. In addition to the systemic and pulmonary veins, there is also a third group of veins, constituting the portal system, in which blood from the abdominal part of the alimentary canal, and from the spleen and pancreas, is conveyed to the liver. The portal system is further peculiar in that it both begins and ends in capillaries. From its terminal capillaries in the liver the hepatic veins arise, and as these open into the inferior vena cava the blood of the portal system is finally poured into the general systemic circulation. The hepatic veins also receive blood supplied to the liver by the hepatic arteries. PULMONAEY VEINS. The terminal pulmonary veins (v. pulmonales. Figs. 552 and 545), two on each side, open into the left auricle of the heart. Their tributaries arise in capillary plexuses in the walls of the pulmonary alveoli. By the union of the smaller veins larger vessels are formed which run along the anterior aspects'of the bronchial tubes, and, uniting together, ultimately form a single efferent vessel in each lobe, which passes into the root of the lung. Thus there are five main pulmonary veins, but, immediately after entering the root of the lung, the vessels from the upper and middle lobes of the right lung join together, and so only four terminal pulmonary veins open into the left auricle of the heart. Neither the main stems nor their tributaries possess valves. Relations.—In the root of the lung the upper pulmonary vein on each side lies below and in front of the pulmonary artery. The lower pulmonary vein on each side is in the lowest part of the root, and it is placed much farther back than the upper vein. On the right side the upper pulmonary vein passes behind the superior vena cava, and the lower behind the right auricle. They both terminate in the upper and back part of the left auricle close to the intei-auricular septum. On the left side both upper and lower pulmonary veins cross the front of the descend- ing aorta, and they terminate in the upper and back part of the left auricle near its left border. All four pulmonary veins perforate the fibrous layer of the pericardium, and receive partial coverings of the serous layer before they enter the auricle. SYSTEMIC VEINS. The systemic veins return blood to the right auricle of the heart through the superior/vena cava, the inferior vena cava, and the coronary sinus. The two first- named receive blood from the veins of the body and limbs and from most of the