THE MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. 393 The longTlS colli is a flattened muscular band extending from the third thoracic vertebra to the atlas. It is divisible into three portions — a vertical, a lower oblique, and an upper oblique portion. The vertical portion of the muscle arises from the bodies of the first three thoracic and the last three cervical vertebrse; and passing vertically upwards, is inserted into the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrce. The lower oblique portion arises from the bodies of the first three thoracic vertebrse, and is inserted into the anterior tubercles of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrse. The upper oblique portion arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrse, and is directed upwards, to be inserted into the anterior tubercle of the atlas. The longus colli clothes the front of the vertebral column in the neck, and is separated by the deep cervical fascia from the carotid vessels, pharynx, and oesophagus. The rectus capitis lateralis, in, series with the posterior inter - transverse • muscles in the neck, arises from the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the under surface of the ex-occipital bone. It is placed alongside the recti capitis antici, separated from them by the anterior primary division of the first cervical nerve. Nerve Supply. The prevertebral muscles are all supplied by anterior primary divisions of the cervical spinal nerves: the rectus capitis anticus minor, and rectus capitis lateralis, by the loop between the first two nerves ; the rectus capitis anticus major by the first four ; the longus colli by the second, third, and fourth ; the scaleni by the lower four or five cervical nerves. Actions. The movements produced by these muscles are considered along with those of other muscles acting on the head, spinal column, and thorax. THE MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. Muscles of Eespiration. The muscles which complete the boundaries of the thorax are the diaphragm and intercostal muscles (external and internal), along with three series of smaller muscles—the triangularis sterni, the levatores costarum, and the infra- costales. The intercostal muscles are arranged in eleven pairs, forming thin layers filling up the intercostal spaces. The external muscle arises from the sharp lower border of the rib, and is directed downward and forward, to be inserted into the outer edge of the upper border of the rib below. It extends from the tubercle of the rib behind nearly to the costal cartilage in front. The anterior intercostal aponeurosis is continuous with it anteriorly, and extends forwards to the side of the sternum. The internal muscle arises from the costal cartilage and the inner edge of the subcostal groove, and is directed downwards and backwards, to be inserted into the inner edge of the upper border of the rib and costal cartilage below. It extends from the side of the sternum in front to the angle of the rib behind, where it becomes continuous with the posterior intercostal aponeurosis extending to the tubercle of the rib. The external intercostal muscles are covered by the pectoral muscles, serratus magnus and the muscles of the back ; the internal muscles are in contact with the ^pleura. The intercostal vessels and nerve lie between the two muscles posteriorly. The levatores costarum are in series with the external intercostal muscles. They are twelve small slips arising from the transverse processes of the seventh cervical and upper eleven thoracic vertebrse. They spread out in