THE rUDIC NEliVE, G17 plexus, merely accompanying the pudic nerve in the first part of its course; in exceptional cases the perforating cutaneous nerve of the buttock is a branch of the pudic nerve. The inferior hsemorrhoidal nerve (n. hasmorrhoidalis inferior) arises from the pudic nerve under cover of the gluteus maximus, at the posterior part of the ischio- rectal fossa. In cases in which it has an independent origin from the plexus, it arises from the third and fourth sacral nerves. It crosses the ischio-rectal fossa in company with the inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels and separates into numerous branches—muscular, cutaneous, and communicating. The muscular branches end in the external sphincter muscle. The cutaneous branches supply the skin around the anus. The communicating branches connect the inferior htemorrhoidal with three other nerves—the perineal branches of the small sciatic, pudic, and fourth sacral nerves. The perineal nerve (n. perineus), one of the two terminal branches of the pudic nerve, arises near the base of the triangular ligament. It almost immediately divides into two parts, superficial and deep. The superficial part is purely cutaneous and consists of twtrnerves, the posterior or external and the anterior or internal superficial perineal nerves, which pass, along with the superficial perineal vessels, to the anterior part of the perineum. Fig. 448.—The Thiangui.ar Ligament ok the Pehinedm. The posterior or external superficial perineal nerve, at the anterior limit of the ischio- rectal fossa, usually passes over the base of the triangular ligament and the trans- versus perinei muscle. The anterior or internal superficial perineal nerve, lying more deeply, pierces the base of the triangular ligament and goes underneath or through the transversus perinei muscle. Becoming superficial in the anterior (urethral) triangle of the perineum, they are distributed to the skin of the scrotum (or labium majus), and communicate with the perineal branch of tlie small sciatic nerve and with the inferior hsemorrhoidal nerve. The deep part of the perineal nerve is mainly but not entirely muscular. Coursing forwards through the anterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, it passes between the two layers of the triangular ligament towards the urethra. It supplies muscular branches to the anterior parts of the levator ani and external sphincter, to the transversus perinei, erector penis (or clitoridis), bulbo-cavernosus (ejaculator urinse or sphincter vaginae), and compressor urethrse. It terminates as the nerve to the bulb, which, piercing the triangular ligament, enters the bulb of the urethra and supplies the erectile tissue of the bulb and corpus spongiosum, as well as the raucous meml)rane of the urethra as far as the glans penis (or clitoridis).