1158 THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. but in the cortex the lymplioid cells are packed much moi'e closely, whilst iu the medulla the retiform matrix is coarser and the lymphoid cells less numerous. Further, the medulla contains the concentric corpuscles of Hassall. These are curious bodies, composed of flattened epithelial cells arranged concentrically around a granular nucleated corpuscle. A special developmental interest is attached to these concentric corpuscles. The blood-vessels form a fine plexus around the various follicles, and from this capillaries penetrate into the central medulla. Development of the Thymus Body.— The thymus gland is derived from the hyjjo- blastic lining of the pharynx. It takes origin as a tubular diverticulum from the dorsal part of the pharyngeal aspect of the third visceral cleft on each side (see p. 34). This diverticulum has thick epithelial walls, and it grows by rapid proliferation of its cells. It extends downwards on the side of the trachea towards the pericardium, and coming into contact with the corresponding hypoblastic evagination of the opposite side, the two lobes of the organ are formed—one from each lateral diverticulum. The narrow upper part of the outgrowth remains for a time tubular, and connected with the pharyngeal cleft from which it originates. Ultimately this connexion is broken through, and the expanded lower end sends out solid bud-like branches after the "manner of an acinous gland. Originally, therefore, the thymus gland is epithelial in its structure. Soon, how- ever, it becomes invaded by connective tissue and quantities of adenoid tissue, so that ultimately it is transformed into the lymphoid organ. characteristic of the child. The remains of the original epithelial constituents are to be seen in the concentric corpuscles of Hassall. THE CAROTID AND COCCYGEAL BODIES. The carotid gland is a minute oval reddish-brown body placed on the deep aspect of the common carotid artery at the point where it bifurcates into its two terminal branches. It is closely connected with the sympathetic nerve filaments which twine around the carotid vessels, and numerous minute arterial twigs enter it. In structure the carotid l)ody is composed of nodular masses of poly- hedral epithelial-like cells, separated from each other by strands of connective tissue. Wide thin-walled tortuous capillaries are brought into intimate relation with the cells. The coccygeal gland is a small Ijody placed in front of the tip of the coccyx. Branches from the middle sacral artery enter it. Its structure is very similar to that of the carotid body. Pericanlial surface Fi(!. 7ftl.— Deep Surface of Thymus Gland, TAKEN FROM A FcETUS HARDENED BY FOR- .MAMN-INJECTION.