THE EESriRATOEY SYSTEM. 920 is applied to the outer aspect of the true vocal cord, and receives its prismatic form from this adaptation. It arises in frout from the angular depressiun l)etween the two ake of the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted behind into the outer aspect of the processus vocalis and also into the adjoining depressed part of the antero-external surface of the arytenoid cartilage. The thyro-arytenoideus internus is somewhat thicker l)ehind than in front. This is due to the fact that, whilst all the fibres which compdse it are attached to the arytenoid cartilage, only a certain ])roportion ol)tain attachment in front to the thyroid cartilage. A large number of the deeper fil)res are directly hxetl at different points to the outer side of the true vocal cord. These constitute the ary-vocalis muscle (Ludwig). The tliyro-ai'ytenoideU!3 is a very complicated muscle, and the above description can only )>e regai'ded as conveying in a general way what may l)e regarded as the more usual arrangement oi its fil)res. It is subject to nuich variation and to very different degrees of development in different sulijects. As a rule it is possil>le to trace from Ijotli parts of the nuiscle filn-es which are carried ol)liquely upwards over the sinus, and to some extent also over the saccuhis laryngis. Further, an additional part, termed the thyro-arytenoideus superior, is not infrequently present. This is a slender hand which arises from the inner as2)ect of the ala of the thyroid cartilage close to the notch, and passes l)ackwards and downwards to find insertion into the lateral l)order of the arytenoid cartilage immediately above the ]>rocessus inusculai'is. The arytenoideus muscle is composed of two portions—a superficial ])art,. terme<l the arytenoidtuis oliliquus, and a deeper part, called the arytenoideus transversus. The arytenoideus oblictuus consists of two bundles of muscular fibres, each of which springs from the posterior aspect of the muscular process of tlie arytenoid cartilage. From these points the two fleshy slips proceed upwards and inwards,, and cross each other in the mesial plane like the two lindjs of the letter X- Reaching the sunnuit of the arytenoid cartilage on each side, many of the fil)res are: inserted into it, whilst the remainder are prolonged round it into the aryteno- epiglottidean fold. Here they receive tlie name of the aryteno-epiglottidean muscle,, and as they approach the e])iglottis they are joined liy the fibres of the thyro- epiglottidean muscle. The oblique ary- tenoid muscles may therefore l)e regarded as forming a riulimentar}' sphincter muscle for the superior aperture of the larynx. Each ])undle, starting from the base of one of the arytenoid cartilages, is prolonged into the aryteno-ei)igiottidean fold of the opposite side, and within this to the margin of the epiglottis. The arytenoideus transversus is an unpaired muscle. It is composed of transverse fibres which liridge across the interval l)etween tlie tw(j ary- tenoid cartilages, and occupy their posterior concave surfaces. To a large extent tliese fibres are inserted into the posterior aspect of the outer border of each arytenoid car- tilage, ])ut many turn rouiul this ])order and become continuous with the fi))res of the thyro-arytemud muscle. It follows from this that the arytenoideus transversus and the two thyro-arytenoid muscles are sometimes spoken of as tlie sphincter of the glottis. Action of the Laryngeal Muscles.—By the action of the laryngeal nuiscles the position and tension of the true vocal cords are so influenced that, during the ])assage of air through the larynx, the tone and the pitch of the voice is deterniincd. Tcnsinn of the true vocal cords is produced by the contraction of the two crico-thyroid muscles. Tiie anterior or oblique portions of the nuiscles pull the lower border of tfie thyroid cartilage downwards, whilst the po.sterior iiorizoutal portions, through their insertion into tlie Ei)iglotti.s Arvtpliij-opiglottidcaii fold Cartilajje of .Saiitoiiiii' Arytpiioideiis obliciuus Arytoiioideus transversus 7 Muscular process of arytenoid cartilage r~' Crico-arytenoideu posticus Facet for inferior cornu of thyroid cartila^'p Crico-arytenoidens Jjosticns Fig. 623.—Dissection of the Muscles ox the Posterior Aspect of the Lahyn.n.