BASAL GANGLIA OF THE CEEEBEAL HEMISPHEEE. 537 always a very strongly-marked elevation, which corresponds with the mid-collateral fissure, but in the course of growth it is apt to lose much of its prominence The anterior collateral eminence is only occasionally present. It appears as an elongated elevation of varying length and prominence, on the floor of the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, on the outer side of the hippocampus major. It is formed by the anterior portion of the foetal collateral sulcus, when this develops as a complete fissure. - Basal Ganglia of the Cerebkal Hemisphere. Under this heading are included certain masses of gray matter more or less com- pletely embedded in the white medullary substance of the hemisphere, and which are developed in its wall. They compose the caudate and len- ticular nuclei, which together form the corpus striatum, the claustrum, and the amygdaloid nucleus. The caudate nucleus bulges into the lateral ventricle. It is' a pyriform, highly-arched mass of gray matter, which presents a thick, swollen head, or anterior extremity, and a long, attenuated tail. The head projects into the anterior horn of the lateral ventricle, whilst its narrower part is pro- ' longed outwards and backwards in the floor of the body of the ventricle, where it is separated from the optic thalamus by the taenia semicircularis. Finally, its tail curves downwards with a bold sweep and enters the descending horn of the lateral ventricle. In the roof of this it is prolonged forwards to the amygdaloid nucleus, the lower part of which it joins. The caudate nucleus thus presents a free ventricular surface, covered with ependyma, and a deep surface embedded in the white substance of the cerebral hemisphere, and for the most part related to the internal capsule. Owing to its arched form it follows that, in horizontal sections through the cerebral hemisphere below a particular level, it is cut at two points, and both the head and the tail appear on the fleld of the section (Fig. 400). In coronal sections behind the amygdaloid nucleus, it is also divided at two places (Fig. 375, p. 505). The anterior extremity of the head of the caudate nucleus coincides very nearly with that of the anterior horn of the lateral ventricle. In the region of the locus perforatus anticus, the head of the caudate nucleus gains the surface and its gray matter "becomes continuous with that of the cerebral cortex. The lenticular nucleus lies on the outer side of the caudate nucleus and optic thalamus, and is for the most part embedded within the white medullary substance of the cerebral hemisphere. It does not extend either so far forwards or so far backwards as the caudate nucleus. Indeed, it presents a very close correspondence in point of extent with the insula or island of Keil on the surface. When seen in Pes hippocampi Posterior horn of lateral ventricle Calcar avis Bulb of the cornu Fig. 399.—Dissection, to show the posterior and descending cornua of the lateral ventricle. B.G. Giaoomini's band. F. Fimbria. F.D. Gyrus dentatus. H.C. Hiiipocampal convolution.