THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. 380 The obliquus inferior arises from the inner side of the floor of the orbit just behind its anterior margin, and external to the naso-lachrymal groove. It forms a slender rounded slip, which curls round the inferior rectus tendon, and passes between the external rectus and the eyeball, to be inserted into the sclerotic between the superior and external recti, and further back than the superior oblique muscle. Mtiller's muscle is a rudimentary bundle of non-striated muscular fibres bridging across the Lachrymal gland Frontal nerve Sii]ira-orbital nerve Lachrymal nerve' Nerves to rectus superior and levator jialpebric superioris,, from oculo-motor nerve Trochlear nerve-- Rectus extern us. Abducent nerve- Oculo-motor nerve (inferior division) Lenticular ganglion. Nerve to rectus inferior, from. oculo-motor nerve' Nerve to obliquus inferior, from oculo-motor nerve 'Supra-troclilear nerve Levator palpebr/E superioris Rectus superior Obliquus superior Nasal nerve Infra-trochlear nerVe Rectus internus Nerve to rectus internus from oculo-motor Ophthalmic artery Optic nerve Long ciliary nerves Rectus inferior Obliquus inferior Fig. 279.—Schematic Representation of the Nerves which traverse the Cavity op the Orbit. splieno-maxillary fissure and infraorbital groove. It is supplied by fibres from the sympathetic, and may have a slight infiueuce in the protrusion of the eyeball. Nerve Supply. The muscles of the orbital cavity are supplied by the third, fourth, and sixth cranial nerves. The fourth, nerve (trochlearis) supplies the obliquus su2Derior; the sixth (alxlucens) sujjplies the rectus externus; the third nerve (motor oculi) supplies the others—levator palpebrae siqjerioris, recti., superior, inferior and intei'nus, and obliquu.s inferior. Actions. The levator palpebrae superioris elevates the upper eyelid and antagonises the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. The six muscles inserted into the eyeball serve to move the longitudinal axis of the eyeball ujnvards, downwards, inwards, and outwards, besides causing a rotation of the eyeball on its own axis. The following table expresses the action of individual muscles. It must be remembered that, while similar movements occur simultaneously in the two eyeballs, the horizontal movements may, by adduction of the muscles of both sides, cause convergence of the axes of the two eyeballs for the purposes of near vision. a. Adduction and Abduction. Eectus internus Rectus superior"! Rectus inferior / Rectus externus Obliquus superior \ {correcting Obliquus inferior / adductors) b. Elevation and Depression. Rectus superior Obliquus inferior Rectus inferior Obliquus superior c. Rotation outwards. Rotation inwards. Obliquus inferior Obliquus superior Rectus superior \ ,, , • % T> , • i • f (^w adduction) Rectus interior ) ^ '