OSTEOLOGY. 210 surface immediately above and behind it is for some of the fibres of origin of tlie gluteus maximus muscle. The inner surface of the ilium is divided into two areas which present very characteristic differences. The posterior or sacral part, which is rough, displays in front a somewhat smooth, auricular surface (facies auricularis) which is cartilage- coated in the recent condition, and articulates with the sacrum. Above and behind this there is an elevated irregular area, the tuberosity (tuberositas iliaca), which is here and there deeply pitted for the attachment of the strong posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. Above this the bone becomes confluent with the inner lip of the iliac crest, and here it affords an origin to the erector spiniB and multitidus spina; muscles. The anterior part of the inner aspect of the bone is smooth and exten- sive ; it is subdivided by an oblique ridge, called the ilio-pectineal line (linea arcuata), which passes forwards and downwards from the most prominent point of the auricular surface towards the inner side of the ilio-pectineal eminence which is placed just above and in front of the acetabulum, and marks the fusion of the ilium with the pubis. Above this the bone forms the shallow iliac fossa (fossa iliaca), from the floor of which the iliacus muscle arises, whilst leading from the fossa, below anji in front, there is a shallow furrow, passing over the superior acetabular margin, between the anterior inferior iliac spine on the outer side and the ilio-pectineal eminence internally, for the lodgment of the tendinous and fleshy part of the ilio-psoas muscle. If held up to the light the floor of the deepest part of the iliac fossa will be seen to be formed of but a thin layer of bone. A nutrient foramen of large size is seen piercing the bone towards the hinder part of the fossa. Below and behind the ilio-pectineal line the inner surface of the ilium forms a small portion of the wall of the true pelvis; the bone here is smooth, and rounded off posteriorly into the ilio-sciatic notch, where it becomes confluent with the inner aspect of the ischium. Just anterior to the ilio-sciatic notch there are usually the openings of one or two large vascular foramina. From this surface arise some of the posterior fibres of the obturator internus muscle. The ischium constitutes the lower and hinder part of the innominate bone. Superiorly its body (corpus) forms somewhat more than the inferior two-fifths of the acetabulum together with the bone supporting it behind and within. Below this the superior ramus passes downwards and backwards as a stout three-sided piece of l)one, from the inferior extremity of which a compressed bar of bone, called the inferior ramus, extends forwards at an acute angle. This latter unites in front and above with the descending ramus of the pubis, and encloses the aperture called the obturator foramen. Superiorly, and on the outer aspect of the ischium, the acetabular surface is separated from the bone below by a sharp and prominent margin, which is, however, deficient in front,- where it corresponds to the cotyl6id notch (incisura acetabuli) leading into the articular hollow; the floor of this notch is entirely formed by the ischium. Below the prominent acetabular margin there is a well- marked groove in which the tendon of the obturator externus lies. Beneath this the autero-external surface of the superior and inferior rami furnish surfaces for the attachments of the obturator externus, quadratus femoris, and adductor magnus muscles. The postero-external surface of the ischium forms the convex surface on the back of the acetabulum. The inner border of this is sharp and well defined, and is confluent above with the border of the ilium, which sweeps round the great or ilio-sciatic notch. From this border, on a level with the lower edge of the acetabulum, there springs a pointed process, the spine (spina ischiadica), to which is attached the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament and the superior gemellus muscle. Below this the postero-external surface narrows rapidly, its inner border just below the spine being hollowed out to form the small sciatic notch (incisura iscliiadica minor). The lower part of this surface and the angle formed by the two rami are capped by an irregularly rough pyriform mass called the tuberosity (tuber ischii). This is divided by an ol)lique ridge into two areas, the upper and outer for the tendon of origin of the semimembranosus muscle, the lower and inner for the conjoined heads of the l)iceps and semitendinosus muscles. Its prominent inner lip serves for the attachment of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, whilst its outer edge furnishes an