1150 THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. The remaining lliree surfaces of the spleen are turned towards the cavity of the abdomen, and are ch)sely applied to tlie viscera wliicli support the organ in its place. These three surfaces, which may be grouped together under the one term of visceral aspect of the organ, are separated from each other by three ridges which radiate from a Vjluut and somewhat inconspicuous prominence which may be termed the internal basal angle. One of these ridges, a salient and prominent Ijorder (inargo intermedins), extends to the npper end of the spleen, and separates an extensive anterior gastric area from a narrower posterior renal area. A second short border passes backwards to the posterior basal angle, and intervenes between the renal and basal surfaces; whilst the third ridge, often-obscurely marked, proceeds forwards to the anterior basal angle and separates the gastric and the basal surfaces from each nib IX Rib X Rib XI Aseenjiii" colon— Rib IX Rib X Rib XI Descending colon Fig. 78,0.—Dissection of the Spleen, Liver, and Kidneys from behind, in a Subject hardened by Formalin-injection. other. The term basal surface is applied to a triangular area which is mapped out by the two last-named ridges together with the lower border of the organ. The gastric surface (facies gastrica) is the most extensive of the three visceral districts. It is deeply concave, and is moulded on the fundus of the stomach. Within its area, and about an inch or so in front of the margo intermedins, is the hilus of the organ. This is a slit, frequently broken up into two or more pieces, whicli gives passage to the vessels and nerves which enter and leave the spleen. Behind the hilus, and immediately in front of the internal basal angle, there is a depression of varialile extent and depth into which the tail of the pancreas is received. The renal surface (facies renalis) is flat and even. It is applied to the anterior surface of the upper part of the kidney, close to its outer border. Sometimes the part of this surface which adjoins the apex or upper end of the organ is applied to the left suprarenal capsule, but as a rule it falls short of that structure. The basal surface (facies basalis) is the smallest of the three visceral areas. It