1204 SURFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. reached it lies 1 in. ))elo\v the condyles, and in a plane anterior to the posterior surface of the lower end of the humerus. The head of the radius, which lies nearly 1 in. below the external epicondyle, is hest manipulated from ))ehind by placing the thumb upon it, while the senii-tiexed forearm is being alternately pronated and supinated. Upon the outer part of the posterior aspect of the extended elbow is a distinct dimple, which overlies the radio-humeral articulation; this dimple, along with the hollows on either side of the olecranon, becomes effaced in synovial thickenings and effusions into the joint. Tlie coronoid process is situated too deeply to be distinctly felt. The lower epiphysis of tlie humerus includes the articular portion of the lower extremity and the external condyle; it is, therefore, small and almost entirely intra-articular, so that foci of disease in its neighbour- hood soon invade the cavity of the joint. The internal epicondyle ossifies as a Vena conies of brachial artery Brachial artery Anconeus Olecranon fos.sa of humerus Fig. 811.—Tr.\nsverse Section through the Bexd of the Elbow. separate epiphysis which unites with the Ljwer end of the diaphysis. In the com- monest dislocation of the ell)ow, viz. with backward displacement of both bones of the forearm, the normal relative position of the bony points is lost, whereas in a transverse supracondyloid fracture the normal relations are maintained. In the child the head of the radius is relatively smaller, and less firmly kept in position by the orbicular ligament than in the adult, so that it is liable to be partially dislocated, giving rise to the condition known as " imlled elboiv." To evacuate pus from the elbow-joint a vertical incision should l)e made over the dorsal aspect of the joint, immediately external to the olecranon. The median vein is seen to bifurcate into median basilic and median cephalic ^ in. below the middle of the bend of the elbow; opposite the same point, but beneath tlie deep fascia, is the bifurcation of the brachial artery. The median basilic and median cephalic veins diverge as they ascend one on either side of the biceps tendon ; the larger of the two veins, \'y/,. the median l)asilic, is usually selected for the operations of venesection and transfusion. When th§ elbow is flexed the biceps tendon can be traced vertically through the centre of the bend of the elbow almost to its insertion. Passing downwards and inwards from the inner edge of the tendon is the bicipital fascia, which separates the median basilic vein from the brachial artery. If the finger nail be insinuated lieneatli the inner edges of the fascia the point of the finger will rest upon, and feel the pulsations of, the ])rachial artery. The median nerve descends through the space a little internal to the brachial artery. The bifurcation of the musculo-spiral nerve takes place in front of the external condyle