84 OSTEOLOGY. attachment of the strong sacro-iUac hgaments. Inferiorly, the edge formed by the lateral masses of the fourth and fifth sacral vertebrae becomes gradually thinner, and at the inferior lateral angle changes its direction and sweeps inwards towards the body of the fifth sacral segment. The apex, or lower end of the sacrum, is formed by the small oval body of the fifth sacral vertebra, which articulates with the coccyx. The sacral canal follows the curve of the bone ; more or less triangular in shape above, it becomes appressed and flattened below. Inferiorly, its posterior wall is deficient owing to the imperfect ossification of the laminie of the fifth, and, it may be, of the fourth sacral segments. Passing obliquely outwards and downwards from this canal into the lateral masses on either side are the four pairs of inter- vertebral foramina, each of which is connected externally with a V-shaped canal which terminates in front and behind in the anterior and posterior sacral foramina. The hinder limb of the V is shorter and narrower than the anterior. The female sacrum is proportionately broader than the male. Its curves are liable to great individual variation, though the absolute depth of the curve is less than in the male. Variations.—Tlie number of sacral segments may be increased to six or reduced to four (see p. 87). Transition forms are occasionally met \\'itli in which the first sacral segment displays on one side purely sacral characters, i.e. it articulates with the innominate bone, whilst on the oj)posite side it may present all the features of a lumljar vertebra. Tlirough deficiency in the development of the laminae, the neural canal may be exposed throughout its entire length, or to a greater extent than is normally the case. (Paterson, lioij. Dublin Soc. Scientific Trans. vol. V. Series II.) Coccyx. The coccyx consists of four—sometimes five, less frequently three—rudimentary vertebrai, wliich tend to become fused. The first piece is larger than the others; it I, has an oval hollow facet I on its upper surface, which articulates with the body of the last sacral segment. Pos- teriorly, two processes, cornua coccygea, which lie in series with the articular processes of the sacrum, extend up- wards and unite with the sacral cornua, thus bridging over the notch for tlie exit of the fifth sacral nerve, and con- verting it into a fora- men, the last of the intervertebral series. From the outer side of the body projects a rudimentary transverse process which may, or may n6t, unite with the sacrum close to tlie lower lateral angle; in the latter case a fifth anterior sacral foramen is enclosed. Inferiorly, the body of the bone artictdates with the succeeding vertebra. The second coccygeal vertebra displays slight traces of a transverse process and the rudiments of pedicles. The following segments are mere rounded or oval-shaped nodules of bone. Fusion between the lower elements occurs normally in middle life, whilst union between the first and second segments occurs somewhat later. It is not luiusual, however, to find that the first coccygeal vertebra remains separate from the others. Though very vai'iable, as a rule, fusion occurs more commonly in the male, and at an earlier age than in the female. From the posterior surface of the coccyx the gluteus nuiximus arises. To its external borders are attached the eoccygei and levatores ani muscles, and from its. tip spring the fibres of the sphincter ani. Fig. 64.—The Coccyx. A. Posterior Surface. B. Anterior Surface. 1. Transverse process, 2. Transverse proces.s, 3. Sacrum. 4. Cornu. 5. Sacrum. 6. Cornu. Transverse process. Transverse process.