1192 SURFACE AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. The left auricle extends lieliind the right auricle for a considerable distance to the right of the mesial plane. In determining the position of the cardiac orifices and their valves it is to be remembered that they are all situated to the left of the right auriculo-ventricular groove, and that they lie in the following order from above downwards—viz. pul- monary, aortic, mitral, and tricuspid. When delineated on the surface they will be seen to lie within an ellipse whose long axis extends from the upper border ot the third left to the sixth right chondro-sternal junction. The pulmonary orifice, directed upwards and slightly backwards and to the left, lies opposite the upper part of the third left ch(3ndro-sternal jiuiction; the aortic orifice, directed upwards, backwards, and to the right, lies further from the surface, behind the left half of the sternum, opposite the lower border of the third costal cartilage ; the mitral orifice lies at a lower level behind the left half of the sternum, opposite the fourth rib; the orifice of the opening is directed downwards, forwards, and to the left. The tricuspid orifice, situated nearer the anterior wall of the chest than the mitral, lies opposite the middle of the .sternum at the level of the fourth and fifth cartilages and intervening space; the orifice, which is })laced very obliquely, may be represented upon the surface by an ellipse placed ])arallel to and immediately to the left of the middle two-fourths of the line indicating the anterior part of the right auriculo-ventricular groove. Allhougli the first and second sounds of the heart are heard all over the cardiac area, the soiuids produced by the individual valves are heanl most distinctly, not directly over their ana- tomical situation, but over the area where the cavity in which the valve lies approaches nearest to the surface. Hence the mitral sound is best heard over the apex (mitral area), the tricuspid over the lower part of the l)ody of the sternum (tricuspid area), the aortic over the second right costal cartilage (aortic area), and the pulmonary o\-er the second left intercostal sjjace (pulmonary area). In tapping the pericardium (paracentesis jjericardii) the jileura will be a\-oided by making the ])unetuiv tbrf)Ugli the fifth or sixth left intercostal space as close as j)Ossible to the edge of the sternum. AVhen, however, the 2)ericardial sac is distended with fluid, the pleura is jjushed out- wards, and will therefore escape injury if the puncture be nrade at a safe distance external to the internal mammary vessels, viz. 1 in. external to the left border of the sternum. To establish free drainage in suppurative pericarditis, the sixth left costal cartilage must bi; resected and the internal mammary vessels ligatured ; the triangularis sterni and the pleural reflexion are then j)ushed aside and the pericardium exjjosed and incised. The ascending aorta lies l iehind the sternum, opposite the second and third ribs, and, unless dilated, does not project beyond its right l)order. The upper border of the aortic arch lies at or a little above the centre of the manubrium sterni; in the cliild the vessel may reach as high as the upper border of the manubrium. The innominate and left common carotid arteries diverge from either side of the mesial plane between the upper part of the manul)rium sterni and the front of the trachea. A iiin yiushed directly l)ackwards immediately above the middle of the supra-sternal notch will strike the iinier border of the iiniominate artery a little below its bifurcation. The pulmonary artery lies behind the left border of the sternum opposite the second interspace and the second costal cartilage. The left innominate vein lies behind the upper part of the manul)rium sterni, the right behind the inner end of the right clavicle. The superior vena cava lies behind and a little to the right of the margin of the sternum, op})Osite the first and second interspaces and the intervening second rib; its opening into the right auricle, behind the third chondro-sternal articulation, corresponds to the centre of the root of the right lung. (Esophagus.—The average length of the ceso})hagus in the adult is 10 in. (25 cm.); the distance from the incisor teeth to its commencement is G in.; to the point or level where it is crossed by the left bronchus, 9 in.; to the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm, 14 to 15 in.; to the cardiac orifice of the stomach, l(i in. These measurements, which are of great importance in diagnosing the seat of oesophageal obstructions, should be marked off from below upwards upon all oesophageal bougies and probangs. Posteriorly, the oesophagus extends from the level of the sixth cervical spine to that of the ninth dorsal, a little to the left of