1198 SUEFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. Spinal Cord.—The spinal cord ends opposite the lower border of the first hnnbar spine ; in the infant it reaches to the interval between the second and third lumbar spines. The cervical enlargement which corresponds to the lower four cervical and the first two dorsal segments ends opposite the seventh cervical spine. The lumbar enlargement lies opposite the last three dorsal spines. The five lumbar segments are opposite the ninth, tenth, and eleventh dorsal spines, while the five sacral segments extend from the lower border of the eleventh dorsal to the lower liorder of the first lumbar spine. The sub-dural space extends down to the \e\el of the second sacral spine. In performing the operation of lumbar p^'-ncture (Quincke) a fine trochar and cannula is introduced into the subarachnoid space below the level of the cord, the puncture being made I to h in. to one side of the interspinous ligament in the interval between the third and fourth or fourth and fifth lumbar spines. The instrument should be directed inwards towards the mesial plane and very slightly upwards. In the adult the distance of the thecal sac fronr the surface is al>out 2 in., in the infant 4 in. Fracture-dislocations of the spine are commonest in the lower cervical and dorso-lumbar regions; that is to say, where the movable cervical and lumbar regions johi the more fixed dorsal region. The spinal column above the injury is generally displaced forwards, so that the spinal cord is often severely lacerated or completely torn across by the upper end of the portion of the column below the fractiue. It is important to remember that in consequence of the shortness of the cord as compared with the spine, the origins of the spinal nerves are at a higher level than their exits from the spinal canal. The distance between their origins from the cord and their exits through the intervertebral foramina l)ecomes greater the further down we descend, the lowest nerve trunks running almost vertically downwards. The cervical nerves leave the spinal canal above the vertebra' after which they are named; the dorsal, lumbar, and sacral nerves, on the other hand, leave the canal below the correspondingly named vertebrte. To luidcrstand the effect of lesions of the cord, it is necessary to l)e famihar with the sensory and motor distributions of the various spinal segments (see Figs. 422, p. 569, and 424, p. 573). Tran.sverse lesions of the cord a/joce the Jifth cervical ^pme (that is, above the disc between tlie fourth and fifth cervical vertebne) are quickly fatal from paralysis of respiration, as the phrenic nerve arises mainly from the fourth segment. In transverse lesions of the cervical enlargement the cutaneous insensibility does not extend higher than a transverse line at the level of the second intercostal space. The diagnosis of the particular segment involved is arrived at by testing the motor and sensory functions of each segment. The sensory areas corresponding to the lower four cervical and X\\& first two dorsal segments occupy the upper extremities, and are placed in numerical order from the radial to the ulnar side of the limb. The sensory area cori'esponding to the second, third, and fourth cervical segments occupy the occipital region of the scalp, the back of the auricle, and the masseteric region, the whole of the neck, and the shoulders and upper j^art of the chest down to a horizontal line at the level of the anterior end of the third intercostal space. In total transverse lesion of the cord in the dorsal region, the upper limit of the antesthesia is horizontal, and reaches to the level of the terminations of the anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves which arise from the spinal segment opposite the vertebral injury. Hence the upper limit of the antesthesia is at a much lower level than that of the injured vertebra. For example, a fracture-dislocation at the level of the eighth dorsal vertebra involves the origin of the tenth dorsal nerve which ends at the level of the umbilicus. The sensory zone corresponding to the fifth dorsal segment is at the level of the nipples, that of the sem-ntli dorsal segment is at the level of the ensiform cartilage, that of the tenth at the level of the umbilicus, while that of the twelfth reaches down anteriorly to the upper border of the symphysis. The sensory areas corresponding to the lumbar and sacral segments are seen in Figs. 422 and 424. THE UPPEK EXTREMITY. THE SHOULDER. The bony landmarks of the shoulder must be systematically examined in all injuries about this region. The inner extremity of the clavicle is prominent; its