THE FASCIiE AND MUSCLES OF THE LEG AND FOOT. 353 h. Adduction and Abduction. Pectineus Tensor fascias femoris Adductor longus Gluteus niedius „ brevis Gluteus minimus „ magnus Obturator externus Gracilis Pyriformis Quadratus femoris Obturator internus Gluteus maximus Gemelli during flexion (lower fibres) Sartorius Gluteus maximus (upper fibres) c. Internal Botation aud External Rotation. Tensor fasciae femoris Gluteus medius (anterior fibres) „ minimus „ „ extension Obturator externus Gluteus maximus (lower fibres) Quadratus femoris Gluteus medius \ (posterior „ minimus /fibres) Pyriformis \ Obturator internus l-'^^^'^i^g Gemelli Sartorius Ilio-psoas Pectineus Adductor longus „ brevis „ magnus Biceps 2. Movements of the Pelvis on the Thigh.—It is to be noted that the several movements tabulated above refer to the movements of the femur at the hip-joint. The contraction of the same groups of muscles produces similar movements of the pelvis on the femur, exemplified in the various changes in the attitude of the pelvis in relation to the tliigh and the vertebral column, which occur in locomotion. 3.i Movements at-the . Knee-Joint.—The movements at the knee-joint are mainly flexion and extension. Flexion is much more powerful than extension. There is also a limited amount of rotation of the tibia. The movements are produced by certain of the muscles described above, associated with certain of the muscles of the leg. a. Flexion aud Extension. h. Rotation inwards and Rotation outwards. Sartorius Gracilis Semitendinosus Semimembranosus Biceps Gastrocnemius Plantaris Popliteus Quetdriceps extensor Sartorius Gracilis Semitendinosus Semimembranosus Popliteus Biceps flexor cruris THE FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE LEG AND FOOT. FASCIA. The superficial fascia of the leg presents no special features except in the sole, where it is greatly thickened by pads of fat, particularly under the tuberosity of the OS calcis, and under the balls of the toes. It is closely adherent to the plantar fascia, especially at the roots of the toes. The deep fascia has numerous important attachments about the knee. Posteriorly it forms the popliteal fascia. In front of the knee it is attached to the patella, the ligamentum patellae, and the tubercle of the tibia; laterally it is con- nected to the tuberosities of the tibia and the head of the fibula, and forms the 23