897 ABNOKMALITIES OF AETEEIES. Again, owing to malposition of the aortic septum, the pulmonaiy artery may spring from the left ventricle and the aorta from the right ventricle. In some cases tlie root of the pulmonary artery is obliterated, and the blood passes to the lungs along the patent ductus arteriosus. Occasionally the arch of the aorta is on the right side instead of the left, a condition which is normal in birds. More rarely there are two permanent aortic arches, right and left, as in reptiles ; the oesoiiliagus and trachea in these cases are enclosed in a vasciilar collar, the two arches unite dorsally, and the Ijeginning of the descending aorta is double. Quite independent of this condi- tion, however, the two primitive dorsal aortte sometimes fail, either altogether or partially, to unite together, and the descending aorta is accordingly represented, to a corresponding extent, by . two tubes. A more common, though still rare, form of double aorta is that due to the persistence, in whole or in part, of the septum formed by tlie fused walls of the primitive dorsal aortpe from which the descending aorta is developed. The length of the descending aorta is determined largely hy the extent to Avhich fusion of the two primitive aortse takes place. Accordingly, when this deviates from the normal, the termi- nation of the descending aorta is at a correspondingly higher or lower level than usual, and resulting from this the lengths of the common iliac arteries are almost invariably proportionately modified. The bifurcation ^ of the aorta may be as low as the fifth lumbar vertebra, less frequently it is higher than usual; it is rare, however, to find it higher than the third or second lumbar vertebra. The aorta, instead of bifurcating into two common iliac arteries, may terminate in a common iliac artery on one side and an internal iliac artery on the opposite side, the external iliac artery on the irregular side arising, at a higher level, as a branch of the aortic stem. This arrangement approaches the condition met with in carnivores and many other mammals, in which the aorta Ijifurcates into two internal iliac arteries, the external iliacs arising from the aorta at a higher level as lateral .branches ; it is due either to a more extensive fusion than usual of the primitive dorsal aortte, or to the origin of the external iliac arteries from the primitive dorsal aortfe being at a higher level than is ordinarily the case ; if the condition is due to the latter cause, it may be that the external iliac arteries in carnivores, and the external iliac arteries which occasionally rise from the aorta in man, are somatic segmental arteries of a higher segment than tlie normal external iliac arteries of the human subject. The Branches of the Aokta. The coronary or cardiac arteries may arise by a single stem. When arising separately both may sjiring from the same sinus of Valsalva ; or again, their interventricular and transverse branches may all arise as distinct vessels from a single sinus of Valsalva. This variability is not so remarkable, seeing tliat the arteries in question are merely enlarged " vasa vasorum " raised to a position of special imj^ortance by the development of the heart. The branches of the arch of the aorta are sometimes increased and sometimes decreased in number. The highest number recorded is six, viz. right subclavian, right vertebral, right common carotid, left common carotid, left vertebral, and left subclavian. Apparently this condition is the result of the absorption of the innominate artery and of the roots of the subclavian arteries, to points beyond the origins of the vertebrals, into the arch. By variations of this process of absorption other combinations may be produced; thus, instead of the roots of the subclavian arteries being absorbed, the right common carotid and innominate arteries may alone be absorbed, in which case the five following branches spring separately from the arch of the aorta: right subclavian, right external carotid, right internal carotid, left common carotid, and left subclavian. The trunk most commonly absorbed is the initial part of the left subclavian; the number of branches then arising from the arch of the aorta is four, the additional vessel being the left vertebral, which arises between the left common carotid and the left subclavian. Occasionally the usual three branches from the arch are increased to four by the formation of a new vessel, the " thyroidea ima." This may be j^laced between the innominate and left carotid trunks, in which case it represents a persistent ventral visceral branch from the ventral root of the fourth left aortic arch ; in other cases the thyroidea ima springs from the innominate artery and represents a ventral visceral branch of the ventral root of the fourth right arch. Very rarely the right vertebral artery arises separately, and forms a fourth branch of the arch of the aorta, the rest of the branches being normal. This condition cannot be accounted for by any modifica- tion of the ordinary developmental processes. It may possibly be due to the persistence of an irregular or unimportant anastomosis between the ventral root of an aortic arch and the seventh somatic segmental artery. Decrease in the number of branches from the arch of the aorta is most frequently due to fusion of the ventral roots of the fourth aortic arches, the result Ijeing that a stem is formed common to the right subclavian and-the right and left common carotid arteries; whilst the left subclavian, arising separately, is the only other branch which springs from the arch of the aorta. If the fusion of the ventral roots proceeds further and includes those of the thii'd arches, the result as regards the branches given ott' from the arch of the aorta is the same, viz. there is a com- mon stem for the right subclavian and both carotids, and a separate left subclavian trunk ; but ' It is to be observed that the exact point of bifurcation of the aorta, in relation to the vertebral column, is not entirely determined by the length of the descending aorta. 57