THE ANAL CANAL. 1043 of its greater vascularity. It is also thicker, and owing to the looseness of the underlying submucosa, is thrown into numerous irregular rugte when the rectum is empty ; these disappear when the bowel is distended, and there then become evident three (sometimes more, sometimes less) crescentic folds, which are much less noticeable in the empty state, and which have been already referred to as the rectal valves. Lymphoid nodules and glands of Lieberkiihn are present; but these latter are not so numerous as in the colon, although their calibre is greater. The mucous membimie of the anal canal presents in its upper half a number of vertical ridges known as the colmnns of Morgaffni; between the lower ends of these are found a series of small semilunar folds which are disposed horizontally around the passage and are called the anal valves (Fig. 705). Above the level of the anal valves the canal is lined by a modified mucous membrane resembling that of the rectiuii ; the portion below the valves {i.e. the lower 12 to 16 mm. of the canal) is covered by modified skin, continuous with that around the anus. The mucous membrane of the rectum presents a characteristic punctated appearance, which is due to the f)reseiice of a considerable number of rounded depressions, sucli as might Ije made h\ firmly pressing a finely-pointed pencil against the membrane. These rectal pits, of which we can find no previous description, are tuliular in form, and have an accumulation of lyniplioid tissue at the bottom of each ; the whole appearance being such as might be produced if a small solitary gland were drawn down from the surface into the intestinal wall. Rectal Valves, or Valves of Houston (plicae transversales recti).—These, some- times termed the valves of Kohlrausch, are crescentic shelf-like folds which project into the cavity of the rectum on its lateral aspects (Fig. 704). They are composed of an infolding of the mucous, submucous, and greater part of the muscular coats, and their form is preserved by the relative shortness of the anterior and posterior bands of longi- tudinal muscular fibres. They are produced, as pointed out above, by the projection, into the interior of the bow^el, of the creases on the exterior which result from the lateral inflec- tions of the rectum. . In the majority of cases three are present (there may be four, five, or, it is said, even more), but often the lowest of the three is small or al>sent; or all the valves may be ill-developed aiid indistinct. When mesial sections of the empty rectum are examined, the Valves are not easily seen (Fig. 737), as they then project but slightly, and are almost com- pletely hidden amongst the numerous rugte of the mucous coat. They are most evident in a distended rectum which has been hardened in situ; they can also be seen during life, per anum, with the aid of a rectal speculum. As a rule two valves are found on the left and one on the right side; this latter is generally the largest, and is situated a little above the level of the peritoneal reflection, viz. 3 or 3^ inches (7"5 to 8-7 cm.) above the anus ; the other two valves are found about 1 to H inches (2-5 to 3-7 cm.) higher up and lower down respectively. The valves are distinctly marked in the foetus (see Fig. 705), and seem to constitute an essential part of the human rectum, their use being to support the contents of the rectum, which they break up into segments, each supported by a valve (see p. 1038). They are said to interfere sometimes with the introduction of an enema tube. The rectum in animals generally is free from the lateral inflexions descrilied above, and tlie' condition found in man is evidently an adaptation to the erect attitude. In quadrupeds the contents of the rectum do not press unduly on the sphincter, owing to the horizontal position of the body. Witli the assumption of the erect attitude, on the other hand, the whole weight of the contents would be thrown on the sj^hincters, were it not for the lateral foldings and the resulting shelves. Fig. 704.—Diagram of Eectum, showing Houston's valves iu interior. Tlie diagram is a reduced tracing of Fig. 702. Alter removal of the prostate, etc., an aperture was made in the anterior wall of the rectum, through which two rectal valves can be seen corresponding to lateral inflections on the exterior. The levator ani is also shown, and its relation to the beginning of the anal canal is suggested.