SUEFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. ill the iTiiddle line of the neck |Kisteri(»rly is the nuchal furrow, at the huttuni ut' which are the cervical spines and tlie liganientum nuch;e. At the upper part (if the furrow, ahout 2 in. lielow the external occipital protuheraiice, is the large spine of the axis, which can he distinctly felt; a line drawn from it outwards and slightly upwards to the transverse process of the atlas corresponds to the position of the inferior oblique muscle and, therefore, to the lower margin of the sub-occipital triangle. The course of the deep part of the great occipital nerve may lie mapped out by drawing a line from the centre of the above-mentioned line to a point one inch external to the external occipital protuberance. At the floor of the sub- occipital triangle is the posterior arch of the atlas upon which the vertebral artery- lies. THE THOEAX. Eor the convenience of topographical descri]ition, clinicians, by the use of vertical and transverse lines, have arbitrarily divided the surface of the chest into certain definite regions or areas. The vertical lines are: the mid-sternal, the lateral sternal, tlie para-sternal, the mammary or mid-clavictilar, the anterior, mid, and 'posterior axillary, and the scapular. The position of the mid and lateral sternal lines is sufficiently indicated by their names. The mammary, better termed the mid-clavicular, is drawn \ ertically d(jwn from the centre of the clavicles, or, what comes to practically the same thing, from a point nudway between the centre of the supra-clavicular notch and the tip of the acromion process. In the male this line usually lies h to | in. internal to the centre of the ni])ple, which is usually placed over the fourth interspace, or fifth rili, four inches from the middle line. In the child the nipple may be as high as the lower border of the third rili. In the female the position of the nipple is so \ ariable that it is of no topographical \ alue. In a well-proportioned subject, the mid-clavicular line, if prolonged downwards, will be found to be continuous with the vertical Poupart line, which crosses the costal margin at the tip of the ninth costal cartilage. The para-sternal line, drawn midway between the lateral sternal and mid- clavicular, crosses the costal margin opposite the ti]i of tlie eighth costal cartilage. The anterior, the mid, and tlie posterior axillary lines are respectively drawn downwards from the anterior fold, the apex, and the posterior fold of the axilla. The scapular line is drawn perpendicidarly through the inferior angle of the scapula. Of the taw transccrse lines, the upper, which separates the infra-clavicular and supra-sternal regions from the mammary and infra-sternal regions, is drawn at the level of the third chondro-sternal articulation; the lower, which separates the mammary and infra-mammary regions, is drawn at the level of the sixth chondro- sternal articulation. The lateral area of the chest is divided into an upper, or axillary, and a lower, or infra-axillary region, liy a horizontal line drawn at the level of the sixth rib. In muscular subjects there is a well-marked mesial furrow, the sternal furrow, lietween the sternal origins of the pectoralis major muscles. The inner part of the lower border of these muscles forms a curved prominence which, overlying the fifth rib, corresponds to the junction of the mammary and infra-mammary regions. Below this prominence is the infra-maminaiy region, which forms a somewhat Hat surface corresjionding to the upper part of the rectus muscle. In the axillary and infra-axillary regitms are the prominences caused by the digitations of origin of the serratus magnus, the first to a]ipear below the pectoralis major being that which springs from the fifth rib. The upper border ol' the sternum lies in the same horizontal plane as the lower border of the body of the second dorsal vertebra, the distance between the two being about 2 in. The junction of the manubrium and the body of the sternum forms a slight prominence or angle, known as the anyidus Ludovici, which, although not usually ^'isible, may always be felt. The angulus lies hi the same plane as the body of the fifth dorsal vertebra. The xiphi-sternal junction corresponds to the disc between the ninth and tenth