THE CRANIUM. 1171 infiindiliuluin. A liuiiy scpLum, rarely incomplete, separates tlie two sinuses; it is usually mesial in position below, but it may deviate to one or other side above. The sinuses xary considerably in their size and shape, independently of the degree of development of the glabella and superciliary ridges. According to Logan Turner, the dimensions of an average-sized sinus are: height, 1^ in., from the lower end of the fronto-maxillary suture vertically upwards; hreaclth, 1 in., from the mesial septum horizontally outwards; deiJth, f in., from the anterior wall backwards along the orbital roof. The sinus may exist merely as recesses limited to a small, area of bone above the nose, or it may extend upwards on to the fore- head for more than two inches; externally it may be limited by the bony wall of the temporal fossa, while posteriorly it may reach as far back as the optic foramen. The anterior wall is thickest, but the thickness may vary from 1 to Section of eyeball a little behind the cornea Rod leading from frontal sinus throngh infundibnlum into middle meatus Cribriform Posterior part Lachrymal External angular Roof of orbit plate of frontal sinus gland process of frontal Rod lead nil,' fi-nm frontal sinus llnouji infumlibulum iiitii middle meatus Opening of lower end of nasal duet into inferior meatus Rodlea<liiigfrom lower part of nasal duct into inferior meatus Anteiior ethmoidal cell Anterior part of middle turbiiial Septum nasi Rod in lower part (5f nasal duct _i/ Anterior part of y7^ antrum of Higlimore 'U / Anterior extremity, of inferior turbinal Fig. [98.—Vertical Coronal Section through the Anterior Part of the Orbital and Nasal Cavities and the Upper Lip. 5 mm. The floor is the thinnest wall, hence when pus is retained within the cavity, it tends to point at the upper and inner angle of the orbit. Intracranial suppuration may arise in connexion with sinus disease by extension through the posterior wall. The muco-periosteal lining, which readily strips from the bone, is thin and pale, and provided with mucous-secreting glands. In many individuals, by the aid of trans-illumination, the extent of the sinuses and the position of the intervening septum may be mapped out upon the forehead. For this purpose a small electric lamp is placed against the floor of the sinus, beneath the inner third of the supra-orbital margin. In exploring the sinus, the opening in the bone should be made close to the mesial plane, immediately above the root of the nose. In marked cases of deviation of the septum one sinus may extend so far across the mesial plane of the forehead as to reduce the other to a mere slit: in such cases the surgeon may fail to open the diseased sinus when the operation is performed through the anterior wall. The sinus frequently contains incomplete partitions, which give rise to the formation of pockets and recesses usually found towards the external angle of the sinus ; when dealing with chronic suppuration of the sinuses, special attention should be ])aid to these recesses as well as to the backward extension of the cavitv along the orbital roof. The anterior