82 OSTEOLOGY. The posterior surface is rough and irregular. Convex from above downwards it displays mesially a crest (crista sacralis media) whereon are seen four elongated tubercles—the spines of the upper four sacral vertebra;. External to these the bone forms a groove—the sacral groove—the floor of which is made up of tlie con- fluent laminic of the corresponding vertebne. In line with the intervals between the spines, and wider apart above tlian below, another series of tubercles is to be seen. These are due to the fusion of the articular processes of the sacral vertebrte, and together they form faint irregular ridges on the bone (cristas sacrales articulares). Normally, the spine of the lowest sacral segmefit is absent, and the laminae do not coalesce mesially, thus leaving a gap in which the spinal canal is exposed (hiatus sacralis); whilst inferiorly the tubercles corresponding to the inferior articular Supprinr articular processes Transverse process of first sacral vertebra J Coccygeal articular surface Fig. 62.—The Sacrum (anterior view). processes of the last sacral vertebra form little down-projecting processes—the sacral cornua (cornua sacralia)—by means of which the sacrum is in part united to the coccyx. Just wide of the articular tubercles are the posterior sacral foramina (foramina sacralia posteriora), for the transmission of the posterior divisions of the sacral nerves. These aie in correspondence with the anterior foramina, so that a probe can be passed directly through both openings; but it is to be noted that the posterior are nuteh smaller, and their margins much sharper, than is the case with the anterior. The surface of the lateral mass external to the posterior sacral foramina is rough and irregular, owing to the presence of four more or less elevated tubercles, which constitute the lateral ridges on either side of the bone (cristse sacrales laterales), and which are serially homologous with the true transverse processes of the lumbar vertebne. ^ Tlie posterior surface of the bone furnishes an extensive surface for the origin of the erector spinte muscles, whilst the edge of the bone external to the third and fourth foramen gives attachment to the glutens maxinius. The base of the bone displays features more in accordance with a typical