THE MUSCLES ON THE FEONT OF THE LEG AND FOOT. 357 lower part of the anterior annular ligament. On the dorsum of the foot the tendon is placed on the inner side of the dorsalis pedis artery. The extensor longus primi internodii and extensor ossis metatarsi hallucis are occaf5ioiial separate slips of this muscle inserted into the hones of the great toe. The extensor brevis digitorum arises on the dorsum of the foot from a special impression on the upper surface of the greater process of the os calcis. It usually gives rise to four fleshy bellies, from which narrow tendons are directed forwards and inwards, to be inserted into the four inner toes. The three outer tendons join those of the long extensor muscle to form the membranous expansions on the dorsum of the toes. The innermost tendon is inserted separately into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The muscle is covered by the lower band of the anterior annular ligament, and by the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius; the slip of the muscle passing to the great toe crosses the dorsalis pedis artery. Adductor obliquus hallucis The Muscles on the Outer Side of the Leg. The muscles on the outer side of the leg comprise the peronei—longus and brevis. The peroneus longus arises from the upper two-thirds of the outer surface of the fibula, from intermuscular septa on either side, and from the fascia over it. It forms a stout tendon, which hooks round the external malleolus, crosses the outer side of the OS calcis, and passing through the groove on the cuboid bone, is directed across the sole of the foot, to be inserted into the internal cuneiform and the base of the first metatarsal bones. The muscle is placed super- ficially in the leg, between the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus brevis in front and the soleus and flexor longus hallucis behind. It partially conceals the peroneus brevis, along with which it passes beneath the external annular ligament, invested by a common synovial sheath. As it enters the sole of the foot a Jibro-cartilage is formed in the tendon, which plays over a smooth tubercle on the cuboid bone, a bursa intervening. In its pas- sage across the foot the tendon is enclosed in a fibrous sheath derivecl from the inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligaments and the tibialis posticus tendon, and is concealed by the first three layers of the muscles of the sole. The peroneus brevis arises from the lower two-thirds of the outer surface of the fibula, and from an intermuscular septum along its anterior border. Its tendon passes over the back of the external malleolus and the outer side of the os calcis, to be inserted into the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. In the leg the peroneus brevis lies behind the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius, and in front of the peroneus longus, which partially overlaps it. The tendon lies directly behind the external malleolus beneath the external annular ligament, invested by a synovial sheath common to it and the peroneus longus. The peroneus longus and brevis may be fused together, or additional slips may be present, as peroneus accessorius, peroneus quinti digiti, peroneo-calcaneus externus, and peroneo-cuboideus. Insertion of i'eroneus LONGUS Insertion of tibialis posticus Flexor longus digitorum Flexor i.oncius hallucis Fig. 262.—The Insertions op the Peroneus Longus and Tibialis Posticus Muscles IN the Sole op the Right Foot. The Muscles on the Back of the Leg. The muscles on the back of the leg are divisible into two layers: (1) a superficial set, consisting of the gastrocnemius and soleus (the so-called triceps