594 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. lateral border of the sternum, it passes forwards iu front of the internal mammary artery and through the internal intercostal muscle, and the aponeurosis of the external intercostal muscle, and ends by supplying the skin of the front of the chest over the second intercostal space. The nerve supplies the following branches :— 1. Muscular branches to the muscles of the second intercostal space. 2. Cutaneous branches, (a) Anterior terminal branches (rr. cutaneus anterior) to the skin over the second intercostal space (Fig. 438). (b) A large lateral cutaneous branch, the intercosto-humeral nerve (n. intercosto-brachialis) (Fig. 429, p. 581). This nerve pierces the intercostal muscles and the serratus magnus, and, crossing the axilla, extends to the arm. It pierces the deep fascia just beyond the posterior fold of the axilla, and can be traced down the arm as far as the interval between the internal condyle of the humerus and the olecranon process. It supplies an ai-ea of skin stretching across the armpit and along the posterior surface of the arm on the inner side as far as the elbow (Fig. 432, p. 586). The intercosto-hnnieral nerve varies in size. It may pierce the first intercostal space, and it is often divisible into anterior and posterior branches, like the lateral branch of an ordinary intercostal nerve. Communications.-—-(I) The intercosto - hmneral nerve communicates with two adjacent nerves. Either before or after piercing the fascia of the axilla it is joined-by the lesser internal cutaneous nerve of the brachial plexus. It also communicates with the posterior part of the lateral branch of the third intercostal nerve by means of the branches disti'ibuted to the floor and boundaries of the axilla. It mdj supply the axillary arches, when present. (2) Besides the branches referred to, the second thoracic nerve in many cases transmits a nerve to the brachial plexus, which becomes incorporated with the first thoracic nerve after passing over the neck of the second rib. This branch is inconstant. As already mentioned, it may join only the intercostal part of the first thoracic nerve, it may join the brachial plexus only, or it may send bi-anches to both parts of the first thoracic nerve. (3) Besides the communications effected by branches of the second thoracic nerve in its course, it also receives a gray ramus communicant from the second thoracic gan- glion of the sympathetic cord in the thorax. It probably also sends to the sympathetic the first white ramus conmiunicans, though this is not known with certainty. The third thoracic nerve only differs from a typical thoracic nerve in one respect. Its lateral branch divides in the usual way into anterior and posterior parts, of which the latter is carried to the arm and supplies an area of skin on the posterior half of the inner side near the root of the Umb. It effects a junction with the intercosto-humeral (Fig. 429, p. 581). The fourth, fifth, and sixth thoracic nerves have a course and distribution which is simple and typical. Except for the peculiarities above mentioned, the second and third thoracic nerves have a similar distribution. The nerves appear on the posterior wall of the thorax, in the subcostal groove of the corresponding rib. They extend forwards between the intercostal muscles as far as the middle of the chest wall, lying at a lower level than the intercostal vessels. At the side of the chest each nerve passes obliquely through the internal intercostal muscle, and comes to lie upon the pleura, triangularis sterni muscle, and internal mammary artery. Thereafter, piercing the hbres of the internal interqostal muscle and the aponeurosis of the external intercostal muscle, each nerve ends by supplying the iNTirimAi. ^xr^mvAL Fio. 437.—Scheme of the Distribution of a Typical Spinal Nehve.