1073 THE PANCEEAS. The two original, outgrowths wiiicii open into the foregut close together, are soon succeeded by an evagination of the wall of the duodeuiuii, which embraces the orifices of both, and subsequently forms the common bile duct; whilst the two primary diverticula, which are now connected with the evagination, form the right and left hepatic ducts. The interlobular bile ducts and the bile capillaries are formed by a canalisation of the primitive hepatic cylinders which have been budded off from the original diverticula. And the gall-bladder is formed as an outgrowth from the common bile duct. As the liver increases in size, it begins to project down from the septum trans- versum into the abdominal cavity, so that now, instead of being situated within the septum, it looks like CEsopliagus. Stomach Spleen. Ventral mesentery Liver Ventral mesentery ■ Bile duct Small intestine Superior mesen- teric artery Smal intestine Vitellinp duct Caecum Inferior mesenteric artery Bectuiii Stomacli 'jDiaphragni bpleen Line crossps mesogastrium Pancreas Superior mesen- teric artery Duodenum Colon Inferior mesen- teric artery ^Rectum Tlie mesentery Aorta an appendage of its under surface. In other words, the septum be- gins to differentiate into two parts—a lower, the liver, and an upper, which constitutes .the greater portion of the diaphragm, both of these having been at first one continuous mass. In the course of development the separation of the two becomes more marked, and finally is complete everywhere ex- cept at the coronary and lateral ligaments behind, and at the falciform liga- ment in front, where they are still connected. As the liver separates off from the future dia- phragm, and descends into the abdomen, there descends with it the ventral mesentery — a fold which connects the stomach and duodenum with the anterior abdominal wall. This is divided by the liver into two parts —a posterior, stretching from the front (lesser curvature) of the stomach to the liver, which becomes the lesser omentum ; and an anterior, stretching from the liver to the anterior wall of the abdomen, which forms the falciform ligament. In early foetal life the liver is relatively of enormous size. Up to the fourth or fifth month it almost completely fills the abdominal cavity, leaving but a small space below for the intestines. Subsequently its relative size is not so great; but evefl at birth it still occupies nearly half of the abdomen, and forms about yV*^h of the body weight, whilst in the adult it is reduced to ^V^^^^- ^I'st the right and left lobes are nearly equal in size ; subsequently, the right grows more rapidly than the left, so that at birth it is about twice, and in the adult four times, as large as the left. In the fa;tus, and at l)irth, the caudate and Spigelian lobes are relatively larger than in the adult. The changes which take place during development in the vessels connected with the liver are described on page 884. Fig. 722.—Two Diagrams to illustrate the Devblopment of the Intestinal Canal. The figure to the riglit shows the rotation of the intestinal loop round the superior mesenteric artery. In both figures the parts are supposed to be viewed from the left side. THE PANCREAS. Tlie pancreas is au elongated glandular mass which lies transversely on the posterior alxlominal wall, with its right end resting in the concavity of the duodenum (Fig. 723), and its left end touching the spleen. It secretes a digestive Huid—the pancreatic juice—which is conveyed to tlie duodenum by the pancreatic duct, and constitutes one of the chief agents in proteid digestion. The absence of a true capsule, and the resulting distinct lobulation of the gland, give the ])ancreas a very characteristic appearance (Fig. 723). Position.—The greater part of the gland lies in the epigastrium, hut the tail and adjacent part of the body extend into the left hypochondrium. '68