OSTEOLUUV. Olecranon rRurKss m ^CORONdlD I'KOCESS Brac-liiiilis anticus . Small sigmoid CAVIIY moSITY iiator railii bievis PITAL HOLLOW dii!'itoniii : !iietarar|)i rpi iiliiaris STEROSSEOUS BORDER subcutaneous and covered by a l)ui-sa. Its superior aspect, which forms with tlie posterior surface a nearly rectangular projection—the tip of the elbow—furnishes a surface for the insertion of the tendon of the triceps muscle, together with a smooth area which is overlain })y the same tendon, but separated from it by a bursal sac. To the anterior crescentic Ijorder of this process are attached the fibres of the posterior part of the capsule and portion of the internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint. The anterior surface is articular, and enters into the formation of the great sigmoid cavity. The coronoid process (processus coronoideus) is a bracket-like process, which juts forwards from the fore and upper part of the shaft, and is fused with the olecranon process superiorly. By its upper surface it enters into the formation of the great sigmoid cavity, whilst its anterior aspect, which is separated from its upper side by a sharp irregular margin, slopes downwards and backwards to become confluent with the anterior surface of the shaft. Of triangular shape, tliis area, which is rough and tul)ercular, terminates inferiorly in an oval elevated tubercle (tuberositas ulnie), into which the tendon of the brachialis anticus muscle is inserted, (^f the lateral margins of the coronoid process, the inner is usu3.11y the better defined. Above, where it joins the superior border, there is generally a salient tul)ercle, to which one of the heads of origin of the flexor sublimis digi- torum muscle is attached, whilst below this point the inner tiorder furnishes origins for t?he pronator radii teres, and occasionally for the flexor longus pollicis muscles, from above downwards. The smooth inner surface of the coronoid pi'ocess merges with the olecranon behind, and with the internal surface of the shaft below. The great sigmoid cavity (iocisura semilunaris), for articulation with the trochlea of the humerus, is a semicircular notch, the upper part of which is formed by the anterior surface of the olecranon, whilst below it is completed by the upper surface of the coronoid process. Constricted towards its deepest part by the notching of its lateral borders, the articular surface is Qccasionally crossed by a narrow impression which serves to define the olecranon process above from the coronoid below, jl-i jn The articular area is divided into an inner '])ortion, slightly concave transversely, and an outer part, transversely convex to a slight degree, by a longitudinal smooth ridge which extends from the most prominent part of the border of the olecranon above to the most outstanding point of the coronoid process below. The margins of the great sigmoid cavity are sharp and well de- fined, and serve, with the exception of the area occupied by the small sigmoid cavity, for the attachment of the capsule of the elbow joint. The small sigmoid cavity, placed on the outer side of the coronoid process, is an oblono- articular surface for the receiition of the head of the radius. It encroaches Styloid J'Koc-ess .Head i .\rticular surface kor radius ^Groove kor ext. carpi ULNARIS Fk;. 134.—The RiiiHT \jLy.\ as viewku FROM THK OlTTER SiDE.