1012 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. the intestinal tube, must next l)e considered: these are the (1) villi; (2) valvula' conniventes ; (3) solitary glands; and (4) aguiinated glands, or Peyer's patches. Villi (villi intestinales).—If the mucous membrane of any part of the small intestine be examinetl, it is seen to present a soft, velvety, or lleecy appaarance (Fig. 685, B); this is due to the presence of an enormous number of minute pro- cesses, known as villi, which cover its surface. Villi are minute cylindrical or finger-like projections of the mucous meml)rane (Fig. 684), aljout yVth or -^V^h of an inch (1'2 to 1'6 mm.) in height, and l)arely visible to the naked eye, which are closely set all over the surface of the mucous membrane of the small intestine. Beginning at the edge of the pyloric valve, they are said to be broader but shorter in the duodenum, and to grow narrower as they are followed down through the intestine to the ileo-csecal valve, at the edge of which they cease. They are found, not only on the general surface of the mucous membrane, but also upon the valvular conniventes, and, while they are not present over the solitary glands, they are found in the intervals between the individual nodules of the Peyer's patches. They are connected with the absorption of tlie products of digestion which takes place in the small intestine. Valvulse Conniventes (plica; circulares).—When the intestine is empty and contracted, its mucous memljrane may in places l)e thrown into effaceable folds or rugye, which disappear on distention. But in addition to these, there are found in certain portions of the small intestine a series of large, permanent folds, which are not effaceable ; these are known as valvulae conniventes (Fig. 685). They are usually more or less crescentic in shape, and resemble a series of closely-placed They rarely form more than two- thirds of a circle ; sometimes, how- ever, they present a circular or even a spiral arrange- ]uent, the spiral extending little more than once round the tube, as a rule. Occa- sionally they bi- furcate at one or both ends; sometimes, too, short irregularly- directed branches pass off from them. They are usually about 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7"o cm.) in length, and their breadth,, that is their pro- jection into the tliickness, as seen shelves running transversely around the gut Fill. 685.—Valvui,.k Conniventks (natural sizu). A, as seen in a bit of jejunum wliicli lias been filled with alcohol and hardened B, a portion of fresh intestine spreail out under water. cavity, may be as much as ^rd of an inch (8 mm.), whilst in when cut acro.ss, they measure about ^th inch (3 mm.) They are composed of two layers of mucous membrane, placed ])ack to back, with a little su))muco.sa between, to l)ind the two together, and are covered with viUi and Lieberkiihn's glands. Their use is to increase tlie amount of surface availal)le for secretion and absorption. ValvuliB conniventes are not found in the upper part of the duodenum for a distance varying from 1 to 2 inches (2"5 to 5 cm.) from the pylorus. Here they begin, and are at first small, irregular, and scattered; but they grow gradually larger as we pass down, and when the opening of the bile-duct is readied