43 THE HIND-GUT AND ANAL PASSAGE. The tympanic cavity is developed from the dorsal or upper end of this portion of the cleft, and it is prolonged upwards on the outer side of the otic vesicle which simultaneously descends in the tissues of the head. Thus the upper end of the inner portion of the cleft, which is somewhat dilated, comes to lie between the otic vesicle, which is developed into the internal ear, on the inner side, and the tympanic membrane which separates it from the external auditory meatus on the outer side, and it remains in the adult as a laterally compressed space, the tympanic cavity, which is continuous through the Eustachian tube with the iipper part of the pharynx. In the mesoderm round the inner, upper, and back part of the cavity the petrous part of the temporal bone is developed and ossified, and in the lower and anterior part the tympanic ossification extends outwards during the formation of the tympanic plate. The upper part of the tympanic space is prolonged backwards between the ossifying peti'ous and squamous parts of the temporal bone, where it forms a recess known in the adult as the mastoid antrum, from which at a later period diverticula are projected into the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, forming the mastoid air cells. The lower portion of the inner part of the cleft is moved obliquely forwards. As development proceeds it is contracted and carried downwards and forwards in front of the developing otic vesicle. It is the rudiment of the Eustachian tube, and, as the septum which separates the nasal chambers from the mouth is formed, its lower end attains a position just behind and at the side of the posterior narial orifice in the upper and lateral part of the pharynx. Apparently, therefore, the lower end of the Eustachian tube has a much higher position than that originally occupied by the lower end of the cleft from which it is formed, for it will be remembered that the lower end of the first visceral cleft is situated, in the early stages, at the side of the tuberculum impar from which the anterior two-thirds of the tongue is formed. This alteration in relative position is due, however, not to elevation of the lower end of the first visceral cleft during its transformation into the Eustachian passage, but to the enormous downgrowth of the mandibular arches, which carry with them the tongue, as they enlarge to form the lower jaw. I/' THE HIND-GUT, THE ANAL PASSAGE, AND THE POST-ANAL OR TAIL GUT. By the formation of the mouth the primitive alimentary canal opens anteriorly; it remains closed posteriorly until a later date, when the anal passage and orifice are developed. "* The posterior end of the hind-gut which is enclosed in the tail-fold is termed the cloaca. The cloaca is dilated, and, assuming a conical form, receives the terminations of the genito-urinary ducts. It is bounded postero-inferiorly by the cloacal membrane which extends from the root of the tail to the body stalk by which the embryo is attached to the chorion. The cloacal membrane is modified from the posterior part of the primitive streak; this remains on the surface of the body after the anterior part has been separated and enclosed during the completion of the posterior part of the neural canal, and it forms a septum between the cavity of the cloaca and the exterior. It consists at first of ectoderm and entoderm alone, and it is only at its lower and anterior part that it is subsequently invaded to a slight extent by mesoderm. During the second month of intrauterine life the cloaca is divided into a ventral or genito-urinary, and a dorsal or rectal section, by the formation and fusion of lateral folds, which gradually unite, from before backwards, till finally the posterior end of the septum approaches and fuses with the cloacal membrane, and the rectum is separated from the genito-urinary chamber. Before this separation is completed an eminence appears in the region of the anterior part of the cloacal membrane at the junction of the ventral surface with the posterior extremity of the body, i.e. in that part which afterwards becomes the region of the symphysis pubis. This eminence is the genital eminence, and from it are formed the penis in the male and the clitoris in the female. The genital eminence is