THE HYOID BONE. 143 The body (basis) is arched from side to side and compressed from before back- wards, so that its surfaces slope downwards and forwards. Its anterior- surface displays a slight median ridge, on either side of which the bone is marked by the attachment of muscles. Its posterior surface, deeply hollowed, is concave from side to side and from above down- wards. Herein lie a quantity of fat and a bursa which separates this aspect from the thyro-hyoid membrane. The upper border is broad; it is separated from the anterior surface by a transverse ridge, behind which are the impressions for the attachment of the genio - hyoid muscles. Its hinder edge is thin and sharp; to this, above, are h^.-Tby. Hvoid Bone as seen attached the genio-glossi, whilst behind and below from the Front. the thyro-hyoid membrane is connected with it. The inferior border is well defined and narrow; it serves for the attachment of the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and thyro-hyoid muscles. The great cornua are connected on either side with the lateral parts of the body. At first, imion is effected by synchondroses, which, however, ultimately ossify. These cornua curve backwards as well as upwards, and terminate in more or less rounded and expanded extremities. Compressed laterally, they serve for the attachments externally of the thyro-hyoid and hyoglossi muscles, and the middle constrictor of the pharynx from below upwards, whilst internally they are con- nected with the lateral expansions of the thyro-hyoid membrane, the free edges of which are somewhat thickened, and connect the extremities of the great cornua with the ends of the superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage below. The lesser cornua, frequently cartilaginous in part, are about the size of grains of wheat. They rest upon the upper surface of the bone at the junctions of the great cornua with the body. In youth they are separated from, but in advanced life become ossified with, the rest of the bone, from which they are directed upwards, backwards, and a little outwards. Their summits are connected with the stylo- hyoid ligaments; they also serve for the attachment of muscles. Connexions.—The liyoid is shmg from the styloid processes of the temporal bones by the stylo-hyoid ligaments. Inferiorly it is connected witli the thyroid cartilage of the larynx by the thyro-hyoid ligaments and membrane. Posteriorly it is intimately associated with the epiglottis. Ossification.—-In considering the development of the hyoid bone it is necessary to refer to the arrangement and disposition of the cartilaginous bars of the second and third visceral arches. That of the second visceral arch, the hyoid bar—or Reichert's cartilage, as it is sometimes called—-is united above to the petrous temporal, whilst ventrally it is joined to its fellow of the opposite side by an independent mesial cartilage. Chondrifica- tion of the third visceral arch only occurs towards its ventral extremity, forming what is known as the thyro-hyoid bar. This also unites with the mesial cartilage above mentioned. In these cartilaginous processes ossific centres appear in certain definite situations. Towards the end of foetal life a single centre (by some authorities regarded as primarily double) appears in the mesial cartilage, and forms the body of the bone (basihyal). About the same time ossification begins in the lower ends of the thyro-hyoid bars, and from these the great cornua are developed (thyro-hyals). During the first year the lower ends of the hyoid bars begin to ossify and form the lesser cornua (cerato-hyals). The cephalic ends of the same cartilages meanwhile ossify to form the styloid processes (stylo- hyals), (see p. 117), whilst the intervening portions of cartilage undergo resorption and become converted into the fibrous tissue of the stylo-hyoid ligaments, which in the adult connect the lesser cornua with the styloid processes of the temporal bone. The great cornua fuse with the body in middle life; the lesser cornua only at a more advanced period. Variations in the course of development lead to interesting anomalies of the hyoid apparatus. The lesser cornua may be unduly long or the stylo-hyoid ligament may be bony; in this case the cartilage has not undergone resorption, but has passed on to the further stage of ossification, thus forming an epihyal element comparable to that in the dog. The ossified stylo-hyoid ligament, as felt through the pharyngeal wall, may be mistaken for a foreign body. (Farmer, G. W. S., Brit. Med. Journ. 1900, vol. i. p. 1405.)