664 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. the spinal nerves. These gray rami are found in connexion witli each and all of the spinal nerves. Their origin from the gangiiated cord is irregular: they may come from the ganglia or the commissure; they may divide after their origin, so that two spinal nerves are supplied from one ganglion; or two ganglia may supply branches to a single spinal nerve. In relation to the spinal nerve, the gray ramus is distributed along the somatic divisions of the nerve, supplying branches to the unstriped muscular fibres (vaso-motor, pilo-motor) and glands (secretory). They also provide small recurrent branches, ending in the membranes enveloping the spinal nerve-roots. Mingled with the non-medullated fibres of the gray rami are found a small number of meduUated fibres, regarded as meduUated sym- pathetic fibres, and axons from the dorsal spinal ganglia incorporated with this ramus. The commissural cords of the sympathetic system are composed of white and gray fibres. The white fibr^ are: (1) Splanchnic efferent fibres, passing to a ganglion above or below the point of entrance into the sympathetic system; (2) splanchnic afferent fibres, guided along the commissure and over or through the ganglia. The gray fibres are the axons of sympathetic ganglion cells: (1) true commissural fibres passing into connexion with the cells of a neighbouring ganglion; (2) fibres passing along the commissure for a certain distance upwards or downwards before entering the splanchnic area as peripheral branches. The peripheral (splanchnic) branches from the sympathetic cord consist of— (1) white filjres—splanchnic afferent fibres unconnected with cells, and splanchnic efferent fibres which, after passing over the gangiiated cord, are on their way to join peripheral (collateral) or terminal ganglia in relation to the viscera ; and oi" (2) gray fibres, splanchnic efferent branches, the axons of sympathetic ganglion cells distributed to the vessels and viscera in the splanchnic area. THE CERVICAL PART OF THE SYMPATHETIC CORD. The cervical part of the sympathetic cord may be regarded as an upward prolongation of the primitive sympathetic system along the great vessels of the neck. It is characterised by the absence of white rami communicantes connecting it with the cervical spinal nerves. Its spinal fibres ascend from the upper thoracic nerves in the commissural cord, and are connected with the cells of the cervical ganglia. The branches from the ganglia in the neck are distributed to structures in the head, neck, and thorax : (1) motor fibres to involuntaiy muscles (e.g. dilator of the pupil); (2) vaso-motor fibres along the arteries of the head and neck and upper limbs; (3) pilo-motor fibres along the cervical spinal nerves to the skin of the head and neck; (4) cardio-motor fibres; (5) and secretory fibres (for the submaxillary gland). The gangiiated cord in the neck is placed upon the "prevertebral muscles behind the carotid arteries. It extends from the root of the neck, where it is con- tinuous behind the subclavian artery with the thoracic portion of the cord, to the base of the skull, where it ends in the formation of plexiform branches upon the internal carotid artery. It consists of a narrow commissural cord composed of meduUated and non-medullated fibres, on which are two or three ganglia—a superior ganglion at the upper end, an inferior gangUon at the point of junction with the thoracic portion of the cord, and an intermediate middle ganglion varying in position and not always present. The superior cervical ganglion (g. cervicale superius) is placed near the base of the skull, between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery. Irregular in shape, it is the largest of the sympathetic ganglia, measuring three-quarters of an inch or more in length. The commissural cord connects it with the middle ganglion (g. cervicale medium), which is of small size, is frequently absent, and may be divided into two parts. It is usually placed over the inferior thyroid artery as it crosses behind the carotid sheath. The inferior ganglion (g. cervicale inferius) is joined by the commissural cord to the middle (or superior) ganglion above, and is imperfectly constricted off from the first thoracic ganglion below. It is of considerable size, irregular in shape, and is