THE ARTICULATIONS OR JOINTS. 268 neck of the scapula. By one end they are attached to the external border of the scapular spine, and by the other to the adjacent part of the posterior aspect of the head of the scapula. The suprascapular nerve and vessels pass subjacent to this ligament. THE SHOULDER-JOINT. The shoulder-joint (articulatio humeri) is one of the largest as well as the most important of the joints of the upper Hmb. It is an example of the enarthrodial, i.e. ball-and-socket variety of a diarthrosis, and, at the cost of a certain amount of security, it has obtained an extended range of movement. The bones which enter into its formation are the glenoid fossa of the scapula and the head of the humerus. The glenoid fossa is a shallow pyriform articular surface, having its narrow end directed upwards and slightly forwards. The upper half of the anterior margin of the fossa is characterised by a shallow notch which accommodates the narrow part of the subscapularis muscle as it runs outwards to its insertion. At the apex of the fossa there is a flat area for the attachment of the long tendon of the biceps flexor cubiti muscle. The head of the humerus is hemispherical and articular, while, external to its articular margin, there is a slight constriction (the anatomical or true neck of the humerus), which is most strongly marked in relation to the greater and lesser tuberosities of the humerus. Under ordinary conditions the two articular surfaces are maintained in apposition by muscular action, aided by atmospheric pressure, and thus, when the muscles are removed, the bones fall asunder to the full extent of the restraining ligaments. Only a small part of the humeral head is in contact with the glenoid fossa at any particular moment, because the former is much larger than the latter, but, by reason of the shallow character of this fossa, all parts of the two articular surfaces may successively be brought into contact with each other. In the position of rest, as the limb hangs parallel to the vertical axis of the trunk, the inferior aspect of the neck of the humerus is brought into close relatioi^ with the lower part of the glenoid fossa. \ The glenoid ligament (labrum glenoidale, Fig. 209) deepens the glenoid fossa, and thus extends the articular surface. It is situated within the joint capsule, and . ,^ . . to some slit(ht ex- Coraco-acromial ligament Acromion process . o ~ ' tent increases the security of the arti- culation. It con- sists of a strong ring of dense fibrovis tissue attached to the free margin of the glenoid fossa. Many of its fibres are short, and pass obliquely from the inner to the outer aspect of the ridge, so that its attached base is broader than its free edge, and therefore in cross sec- tion it appears some- what triangular. The long tendon of the biceps, which to a considerable extent in- Coraco-humeral ligament Communication between subscapular bursa and joint cavity Capsule of joint Fig. 208.—Capsule of the Shoulder-joint and Couaco-achomial Ligament, arises from the apex of the glenoid fossa, becomes corporated with this ligament, The capsular ligament (capsula articularis, Fig. 208) presents the general shape which is characteristic of the corresponding ligament in other ball-and-socket joints.