THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. 362 the thick central part of the plantar fascia which covers it and the intermuscular septa on either side. Passing forwards, it gives rise to four slender tendons, which are inserted into the second phalanges of the four outer toes, after having been perforated, just as in the case of the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum of the hand, by the long flexor tendons. Placed in the centre of the sole beneath the plantar fascia, and between the abductor hallucis and abductor minimi digiti muscles, it conceals the second layer of muscles and the external plantar vessels and nerve. The abductor minimi digiti (m. abductor digiti quinti) has also a double origin: (1) from both tubercles on the tuberosity of the os calcis, and (2) from the plantar fascia and calcaneo-metatarsal ligament. Adductor tkansvershs hallucis Intkrossei Flexor brevis minimi dk;iti ACCKSSORIUS ^ It lies along the fifth meta- tarsal bone, and is inserted into the outer side of the first phalanx of the little toe. It partially conceals the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and lies on the outer side of the flexor brevis digitorum. The tendons of the long flexors of the toes, the lumbricales and accessorius muscles, constituting the second layer of muscles, have already been described. Lying beneath the abductor hallucis and the flexor brevis digitorum, and separated from them by the plantar vessels and nerves, they occupy the hollow of the tarsus and the space between the first and fifth metatarsal bones; their deep surfaces Flexor i.oNaus digitorum are in contact with the ad- ductors of the great toe and Adductor obliquus hallucis 1' LliXOR BREVIS HALLUCIS Tibialis posticus Flexor lonous hallucis Fig. 267.—The Muscles of the Riciht Foot (after removal of the second layer). the interossei muscles. The flexor brevis hallucis arises (1) from the inner sur- face of the cuboid bone, and (2) from the tendon of the tibialis posticus. Directed forwards over the first meta- tarsal bone, the muscle separ- ates into two parts, between which is the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. Each portion gives rise to a tendon which is inserted into the corresponding side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe; in each tendon, under the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, a sesamoid bone is developed. The inner tendon is united with the insertion of the abductor, the outer tendon with the insertions of the adductor muscles of the great toe. The adductor obliquus hallucis arises (1) from the sheath of the peroneus longus, and (2) from the heads of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. Occupy- ing the hollow of the foot, deeper than the long flexor tendons and lumbricales, and separated from the interossei by the plantar arch, it is placed on the outer side of the flexor brevis hallucis, and is directed obliquely inwards and forwards, to be inserted on the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe between and along with the flexor brevis and adductor transversus hallucis. The muscle forms one side of a triangular space in the sole through which the external plantar vessels and nerve pass.