99 THE BONES OF THE SKULL. upper border of the stermun lies on a level with the disc between the second and third thoracic vertebne. The lower aperture, of large size, is bounded in the middle line behind by the twelfth thoracic vertebra; passing thence the twelfth ribs slope outwards, down- wards, and forwards. From these a line carried horizon- tally forwards from their tips touches the end of the eleventh rib, and then curving slightly upward reaches the cartilage of the tenth rib. Here it follows the conflu- ent margins of the cartilages of the tenth, ninth, eighth, and seventh ribs. Anally reaching the xiphoid cartilage, where it forms with the costal margin of the opposite side the subcostal angle, the summit of which coincides with thexiphi-sternal articula- tion ; in expiration this joint usually lies on a level with the intervertebral disc between the ninth and tenth thoracic vertebra?, and corresponds with the surface depression familiarly known as the pit of the stomach. The inferior aperture of the thorax is occupied by the vault of the diaphragm. In the fcBtal condition the foi'm of the thorax differs from that of the adult. It is laterally compressed—in this respect re- sembling the simian type. Its Fig. 76.—The Thokax as seen from the Right Side. antero - posterior diameter is relatively greater than in the adult. At birth changes in form take place dependent on the expansion of the lungs; during subsequent growth, the further expansion of the thoracic cavity in a transverse direction is correlated with the assumption of the erect posture, and the use of the fore-limbs as prehensile organs. Sexual Differences.—The thorax of the female is usually described as being proportionately shorter and rounder than the male. It also tends to narrowness in the lower segment. It is hardly necessary to point out that the natural form is often modified by the use of tight or ill-fitting corsets. THE BONES OF THE SKULL (OssA Cranii). The term skull (cranium) is commonly employed to signify the entire skeleton of the head. This comprises the bony envelope which surrounds the brain (cranium cerebrale), and the osseous structures which support the face (cranium viscerale, ossa faciei). In catalogues of craniological collections the terms used are as follows :— Skull = entire skeleton of head, including the mandible. Cranium = the skull, minus the mandible. Calvaria = that part of the skull which remains afte]' the bones of the face have been removed or destroyed.