THYMUS GLAND. 1157 Internal jugular vein\l Vagus nerve~\\ Common carotid artery Innominate artery Subclavian artery Subclavian vein Innominate vein l.ateral lobe of thyroid body Isthmus of thyroid body Common carotid artery Internal jugular vein Band connecting thymus with thyroid Vagus nerve Subclavian artery Subclavian vein Innominate vein moulded upon the pericardium and upon the vessels in the front part of the siiperior mediastinum. Thus, when it is hardened in situ and removed, it presents on its posterior surface a deep pericardial cnncavity, with impressions on the upper part of this hollow corresponding to the pulmonary artery and vena cava superior (Fig. 791). Above the peri- cardial surface deep grooves indicate the intimate manner in which it is adapted to the two innominate veins. Above the left innomi- nate vein the two lobes of the thymus ascend to an unequal height into the neck. They are placed in front of the trachea, and extend outwards so as to over- lap the termination of the innominate artery on the right side and the left common carotid artery on the left side. One or other of the lobes may rise as high as the thyroid gland, but as a rule both fall somewhat short of this organ, and the lobe which ascends highest is usually attached to the corre- sponding lateral lobe of tire thyroid body by a strand of connective tissue. After the second year the thymus gland remains stationary, or it l^egins slowly to diminish in size, but when puberty is reached a rapid degeneration sets in. Its lobules become infiltrated with fat and loose strands of connective tissue. Waldeyer has shown, however, that throughout the whole of life it not only retains something of [its old form, but also that the degeneration is never complete. Preserved within its substance (either uniformly diffused through it or in distinct masses)] there may always be found remains of the original thyinus-tissue. Blood-vessels and Nerves.—The arteries Inch carry blood to tlie thymus come from the inferior thyroid, tlie internal mammary, and perhaps also from other sonrces. The veins join the neighljoimng venous trnnks—viz. the inferior thyroid, the internal mammary, and the t^vo innominate veins. Tlie nerves to the thymns are derived from the vagns and sympathetic trunks. The lymphatic vessels are of large size, and accompany the blood-vessels. Fig. 790.- -Thymus Gland in a Full-time Fcetus hakdened by foemalin-injection. Structure of the Thymus.—The thymus is composed of a large number of small polyhedral lobules. The sheath which envelops the organ sends off from its deep surface fine partitions or septa which pass into the gland and separate the different lobules from each other. Each lobule is composed of clusters of lymphoid follicles, with a small amount of delicate connective tissue intervening between them. A follicle consists of an outer cortical and an inner or central medullary portion. Both are formed of adenoid tissue.