THE DEEP CONNEXIONS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 47V pervaded by an intricate network of fine fibrils. In form it is elongated and rod-like, and in length it is somewhere abont 18 mm. It extends from a point immediately above the decussation of.the pyramids up to the level of the strite acustica\ The lower portion of the nucleus is thus placed in the closed part of the medulla (Fig. 340, p. 457), whilst its upper part is situated in the open part of the medulla (Fig. 343, p. 460). The former lies in that part of the central gray matter which is continuous with the basal part of the ventral horn of gray matter of the cord. It is thus placed on the ventral and lateral aspect of the central canal, close to the mesial plane and the correspondilig nucleus of the opposite side. The upper part of the nucleus occupies a position in the gray matter on the floor of the fourth ventricle, subjacent to the surface area, which has been described under the name of the trigonum hypoglossi. Within the nucleus the axons of the cells arrange themselves in converging bundles of fine fibrils, which come together and leave the ventral aspect of the nucleus as the fasciculi of the nerve. The nerve bundles thus formed traverse the entire antero-posterior thickness of the medulla between the formatio reticularis grisea and the formatio reticularis alba, and emerge on the surface in linear order at the bottom of the furrow between the olivary eminence and the pyramid. In the substance of the medulla, the root- bundles of the hypoglossal pass between the main inferior olivary nucleus and the mesial accessory olivary nucleus, and many of them on their way to the surface pierce the ventral lamina of the main olivary nucleus. No decussation between the nerves of opiDosite sides takes place in the medulla, but commissural fibres pass between the two nuclei (Kolliker). Further, numerous fibres from the opposite pyramidal tract enter the nucleus and end in connexion with its cells. The nucleus is thus brought into connexion with the motor area of the opposite side of the cerebral cortex. Spinal Accessory Nerve (nervus accessorius).—The spinal accessory is likewise a motor nerve, and it is generally described as consisting of a spinal and a medullary or accessory part. The spinal part of the nerve emerges by a series of roots, which issue from the surface of the lateral column of the upper part of the cord as low down as the fifth cervical nerve. These take origin in a column of cells situated in the anterior horn of gray matter of the cord close to its lateral margin, and immediately behind the ColUDin of Goll Cohimii of Burdach Nerve (after Bruce). „ Fig. 355.—Section through the Upper Part op the Cervical Region op the Cord (Orang), Showing the origin of the spinal part of tlie spinal accessory nerve. nerve-cells which give rise to the fibres of the anterior roots of the upper five cervical nerves. The cells of the accessory nucleus are large, multipolar, and in every respect similar to the motor cells of the spinal nerves. The axons from these