544 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. NEUROGLIA TANGENTIAL FIBRES BAND OF 8ECHTEREW OUTER BAND BWLLARKER The stratum zonale is chiefly composed of fibres which run in a tangential direction, or, in other words, parallel to the surface. These form an interlacement of considerable density and extreme complexity. The elements which for the most part enter into the formation of this feltwork are : (1) the terminal filaments of the apical dendrites of the pyramidal cells; (2) the terminal filaments of certain corti- cipetal fibres, which enter the cortex from the white centre of the gyrus ; (3) the axons of certain small cells peculiar to this stratum; (4) the axons of the cells of Martinotti. Spread over the surface of this tan- gential interlacement of fibres, which constitutes the most imj^ortant part of the stratum zonale, there is a thin layerof neurogliawhich intervenes between it and the pia mater, which covers the convolution. The stratum zonale is not devoid of nerve-cells, although these are small and some- what indefinite in their con- nexions. The most char- acteristic form is a small fusiform cell described hx Cajal, which sends out from either end a long process and which lies in the deeper part of the layer. The long filamentous processes of. this cell thread their way between the other fibres in a tangential direction and give oft' minute branches which pass towards the surface. The deepest layer of the cortex contains the poly- morphic cells. These cells are not large, and they present many difi'erent forms. Numerous dendrites proceed from the cells of this group, but none of these reach the stratum zonale, and in this respect the polymorphic cells ofter a marked contrast to the pyramidal cells. The axons of the polymorphic cells, however, like those of the pyramidal cells, enter the white centi'c of the gyrus in tlie shape of nerve-fibres. In addition to the cells characteristic of the several layers, there are two which may be found amongst the pyramidal or amongst the polymorphic cells. These are : (1) the cells of Golgi ; (2) the cells of Martinotti. A cell of Golgi has this peculiarity—that its axon, close to its origin, begins to divide, and very soon loses its individuality by breaking up into a perfect maze of branches, none of which pass far from the neighbourhood of the cell-body and none of which enter the stratum zonale. The cell of Martinotti is small and is chiefly found in the deeper part of the cortex. Its leading peculiarity is, that its slender axon runs in a contrary direction to the axons of the pyramidal cells and of the polymorphic cells. In other words, it proceeds towards the INNER SAND OF 3AILLARGER INTRACORTICAL ASSOCIATION FIBRES Fk!. 405.—DiAiiRAM TO Illustuatk Minute Structure of the Ceeebr.\l Cortex. A 1 g' J Neuroglia cells. C. Cell with short axon (N) whicli break; up in a free arborisation. D. Si)iud]e-shaped cell in stratum zonate. Small pyramidal cell. Large pyramidal cell. Cell of Martinotti. Polymorphic cell. Corticipetal fibres.