11 THE OVUM. Ova in which there is no deutoplasm are spoken of as alecithal. Siich ova, if they exist, are very rare ; most of those usually classed under this head undoubtedly contain a certain amount of deutoplasm granules scattered throughout the cyto- plasm, and are better described by the term oligolecithal. The size of an ovum is determined by the amount of food yolk present, and all oligolecithal ova are small; the human ovum, vs'hich may be taken as a type of the class, is about '2 mm., or y^-jth of an inch in diameter. As the deutoplasm is increased in amount the ovum is increased in size. The deutoplasm also tends to accumulate in certain situations; if the accumulation is at one extremity of the cell the ovum is described as telolecithal; such ova are naturally divisible into two areas or poles, a cytoplasmic or formative pole, and a deutoplasmic or nutritive pole. In eutelolecithal ova the deutoplasm almost entirely displaces the cytoplasm from one pole, as in the egg of the fowl, in which the cytoplasm is represented by a disc spread over one pole of a large deutoplasmic mass. In many of the arthropoda the deutoplasm accumulates at the centre of the ovum, which is there- fore termed centrolecithal. The germinal vesicle or nucleus of the human ovum is about '05 mm. or -^-^th of an inch in diameter, Fig. 4.—The Ovdm and its Coverings (Diagrammatic). The corona radiata, which completely surrounds the ovum, is only represented in the lower part of the figure. 1. Corona radiata. ■ 5. Vitellus or Yolk. 2. Granular layer. C. Germinal vesicle (nucleus). 3. Vitelline membrane. 7. Germinal spot (nucleolus). 4. Zona pellucida (oolemma). S. Nuclear membrane. I.e. the size of the whole ovum. It lies excentrically in the yolk, and has the usual characters of a cell nucleus, i.e. it possesses a nuclear membrane within which is the karyoplasm, divisible into reticulum or nucleoplasm, and nuclear juice. Tlie nucleoplasm consists of chromatin and achromatic fibres (linin), and the nuclear juice contains one or more spherical and highly refractile true nucleoli or germinal spots; the nodes of the reticulum constitute false nucleoli. In addition to the nucleus, the viteUus, at certain periods, also contains a structure known as the vitelline body or body of Balbiani. This body is a spherical structure which appears when the primordial ova cease to multiply and begin to increase in size. Apparently it is derived from the nucleus, and it consists of a central nodule surrounded by a zone of modified protoplasm. It disappears long before the ovum becomes mature, and it probably represents an ancestral organ corresponding with a poi'tion of the macro- nucleus of the infusorian ovum. The Vitelline Membrane.—The vitelline membrane is simply the peripheral portion of the vitellus, modified and transformed into a fine structureless envelope which covers the outer surface of the yolk. It is usually closely applied to the inner aspect of the outer membrane, the zona pellucida, and is best seen in the dead ovum and after treatment by reagents. It is therefore thought by some to be merely a condensation of the outer part of the vitellus produced by the action of the reagents. There is evidence, however, to show that it is present in the normal living ovum. The Zona Pellucida or Oolemma.—This membrane is thick, tough, and refrac- tile. It serves as a protective covering for the ovum, and persists for a considerable time after its fertilisation, only disappearing when the ovum becomes attached to the uterus. It is perforated by numerous fine canals, which give to the broad clear membrane a finely striated appearance, from which circumstance it has been called the " zona striata." The zona pellucida is not formed by the ovum, but is secreted by the cells of the Graafian follicle in which the ovum lies; it is consequently