430 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. and thus form sub-groups more or less perfectly marked oft' from each other. This is most evident in the cervical and lumbar swellings of the cord, where, in conformity with the large anterior nerve-roots w'hich issue from tiie cord, the ventral cells are much more numerous than in the dor.sal region, and whei'e also certain of the motor cells are especially large in conformity with the great length of the efferent fibres which proceed from them for the supply of the distant muscles of the limbs. Two such sub-groups of the ventral cells are easily recognised, viz. a mesial and a lateral. The mesial group occupies the inner or mesial part of the anterior gray horn, whilst the lateral group occupies the outer part of the anterior gray horn. In the cei'vical and lumbar enlargements of the cord the cells of the lateral group increase greatly in immber and become massed together in two collections, viz. a set in front called the veiitro-lateral sub-group, and a set behind and more deeply placed, which receives the name of the dorso-lateral sub-group. It is thought by some that this grouping of the ventral column of cells stands in rela- tion to the muscle-groups to which their axis cylinder processes are distributed. Lateral Cell-Column.—In those regions of the cord where the lateral horn of gray matter is well marked a group of cells may be seen within it. In other districts of the cord the same cell-group may be detected, although it is not so distinctly represented. Posterior Vesicular Column—Clarke's Column.—This occupies the posterior horn of gray matter and is the most conspicuous of all the cell-groups in the cord. It does not, however, extend along the whole length of the cord; indeed it is almost entirely confined to the dorsal region, and in consequence it is some- times referred to as the " dorsal nucleus." Above, it begins opposite the seventh or eighth cervical nerve, whilst below, it may be traced to the level of the second lumbar nerve, where it disappears. In transverse section of the cord it presents an oval outline, and is seen in the inner part of the cervix of the posterior horn of gray matter immediately behind the gray commissure (Fig. B). On the outer side it is circumscribed by numerous curved fibres from the entering posterior nerve- root, and in the lower dorsal region of the cord (opposite the eleventh and twelfth dorsal nerves) it becomes so marked that it forms a bulging on the 'inner aspect of the posterior gray horn. The cells of Clarke's column are large, and possess several dendritic processes. The axons enter the lateral column of white matter and there form a strand of fibres, which will later on be described under the name of the direct cerebellar tract. In addition to the topographical .subdivision of the nerve-cells of the cord indicated above, it is now usual to classify them according to the nature of the axons which proceed from them. Thus we have (1) the cells of Golgi or cells with short axons, and (2) cells with long axons. The cells of Golgi iwssess axons which do not emerge from the gray matter, but bring neigh- bouring cells into touch with each other. The cells with long axons are of two kinds, viz. radicular cells and strand-cells. The radicular cells are tliose from which the axon emerges from the cord in the shape of an efferent iierve-filjre. Thus the "motor cells" which supply the axis cylinder processes of the: anterior nerve-roots belong to this class. The strand-cells are those wliiij^ontrilnite their axons to the formation of those fibres which form certain of the strands or tnwrS'^^Jikii are found in the white matter of the cord. ' Nerve-fibres in the Gray Matter of the Cord.—Nerve-fibres both of the medullated and non-meduUated variety per\'ade every part of the gray matter. They are of three kinds, viz. (1) collaterals, (2) terminations of nerve-fibres, (3) axons given off by the cells. The nerve-fibres which compose the columns of white matter of the cord give off numerous fine collateral branches, which pass into the gray matter from all sides and finally end in relation with the nerve-cells. The majority of the nerve-fibres themselves, which thus give off collaterals, finally turn in and enter the gray matter, to end similarly. As already noted, the axons of the cells in the case of the cells of Golgi remain within the gray matter, but all the others emerge either for the purpose of entering a peripheral nerve or for the pur- pose of entering a strand of fibres in the white matter of the cord. The nerve-fibres thus derived are interwoven together in the gray matter of the cord in a dense inextricable interlacement.