749 THE PEEICAEDIUM. cases, with the inner ends of the cartilages of the fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs of the left side. Its posterior surface forms the anterior boundary of the posterior media- stinum ; it is in relation with the oesophagus and the descending aorta, both of which it separates from the back of the left auricle. Each lateral aspect is in close contact with the mediastinal portion of the parietal pleura, the phrenic nerve and its accompanying vessels intervening. The inner surface of the fibrous sac is Kned by the serous pericardium, which is closely attached to it. The serous pericardium is a closed sac containing a little fluid (hquor peri- cardii). It is surrounded by the fibrous pericardium and invaginated by the heart. It is, therefore, separable into two portions—the parietal, which hues the inner sur- face of the fibrous sac, and the visceral, which ensheaths, or partially ensheaths, the Fig. 551.—Posteiiioe Wall of the Pericardium after removal of the Heart, showing the relation of the serous pericardium to the great vessels. Prom a formalin preparation made by Professor Birmingham. heart and the great vessels; but the two portions are, of course, continuous with each other where the serous layer is reflected on to the great vessels as they pierce the fibrous layer. The majority of the great vessels receive only partial coverings from the visceral layer: thus the superior vena cava is covered in front and laterally; the pulmonary veins in front, above, and below; and the inferior vena cava, for a very short distance, in front and laterally. The aorta and the pulmonary artery are enclosed together in a complete sheath of the visceral layer; and when the pericardial sac is opened from the front it is possible to pass the fingers behind them and in front of the auricles, from the right to the left side, through a passage called the great transverse sinus of the pericardium. The spaces or pouches which intervene between the vessels which receive partial coverings from the serous pericardium are also called sinuses; and the largest of them, which