THE UKiESTlVE SYSTEM. JUG-i ]>ortal fissure, and a siiuiller right \)iivt passing out into the processus cau(hitus, uv caiulate Icjhe, which connects it (Fig. 716) with the under or visceral surface of the right lolx-. The posterior sui'face of tlie Spigelian lol)e is free ; it is placed vertically, and looks hackwai-ds and slightly inwards. The lobe has also another surface, wliicli is hidden when in tlie hodv and in the hardened liver hy the folding of tlie left lohe across it. By this folding there is forined a deep fissure (fissure of the ductus venosus), at the bottom of wliicli will l)e found the remains of the ductus ^■(■nosus. (5) The CEsophageal Groove is situated on tlie l)ack of the left lobe, to the left of the upper end of the Sjiiyeliaii lol)e, l)ut separated from it by the fissure of the ductus venosus (fossa ductus venosi), which on this aspect indicates the division l)et\veeii the ri<>ht and left lolies. The groove leads down into the gastric iuipres- Vi'iia cava in its fossa Spigelian lobf I'Mssun; of ductus venoi Onipntal tuberosity (Ksoi)liap:oal groovo Eml of sinnarcnal \ ein SupranMial impression Riglit end of caudate lobe Uncovered area of right lobe Henal impression Gastric impressi Attarliment of right lateral ligament I'ortal lissurp Umbilical lissuri yuadratc lobe Portal vein Gall-bladder Duodpual impres.siou Colic impression Kiii. 71(5.—Thk Livkh fuom below .\xd bkhind, showing tlie whole of llie visceral surface and the posterior area of the parietal surface. The portal fissuve has hetn stightly opened up to show the vessels passing through it; tlie otlier fissures are represented in their natural condition—closed. In this liver, wliich was hardened in situ, the impressions of the sacculations of tlie colon were distinctly visilile at the colic impression. The rounil ligament and the remains of the ductus venosus are hidden in the depths of their fissures. sion on the visceral surface of the left lolie (Fig. 71G), and, when in the l»ody, lies in contact with the prominent right or auteiior margin of the cesophageal orifice of the diaphragm (see p. 990 and Fig. itself. 24), sometimes also with the oesophagus The superior area (jf the parietal surface lies in contact witli the roof of the abdomen ; it is convex on each side, and depressed neai' the middle line. Tlie two convexities, of which the light is the more prominent, fit into tlie two cuijolie of the diaphragm.; whilst the central depression (depressio cardiaca) corresponds to the position of the heart. This area (witli the exception of a small triangle at its jiosterior part, lietween the sejiarating layei's of the fafciform ligament) is conijiletidy covered by jieritoneum, and on it the division of the liver into right and left lobes is indicated by tlie attachment of the falciform ligament. The anterior area ni' ihe parietal surface is li-iangular in shape, ami afler death is usually flattened, owing to llie falling in of the anferinr abdominal wall. In ]iarf it lies in contact with tile diapliragin, which separates il I'rom llie rib-cai'tilages on each siile, but at the subcostal