279 CAKPO-METACAEPAL JOINTS. INTERMETACARPAL JOINTS. The four inner metacarpal bones articulate with each other at their proximal ends or bases, between the opposing surfaces of which joint cavities are found—- arthrodial diarthroses. These cavities are continuous with the carpo-metacarpal joint (not yet described), and hence the ligamentous arrangements only enclose three aspects of each joint. Three strong transverse ligaments (Figs. 216 and 217) bind adjacent palmar, dorsal, and interosseous areas of the bases of the metacarpal bones, and hence they are called ligamenta basium (oss. metacarp.) volaria, dorsalia et interossea. A synovial membrane is associated with each of these joints, but it may be regarded as a prolongation from the carpo-metacarpal articulation. CARPO-METAOARPAL JOINTS. The articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium differs in so many respects from the articulation between the other metacarpal bones and the carpus, that it must be considered separately. (A) The articulatio carpo-metacarpea pollicis (Figs. 216 and 217) is the joint between the infero-external surface of the trapezium and the superior surface of the base of the first metacarpal bone. Both of these surfaces are saddle-shaped, and they articulate by mutual co-aptation. The joint-cavity is surrounded by a fibrous capsule, in which we may recognise palmar, dorsal, external, and internal lateral bands, the last being the strongest and most important. Synovial membrane lines the capsule, and the joint-cavity is isolated and quite separate from the other carpal and carpo-metacarpal articulations. At this joint movements occur about at least three axes. Thus, around a more or less trans- verse axis, flexion and extension take lAace ; in an antero-posterior axis abduction and adduction (movements which have referent^ to the middle line of tlie hand) are found ; while a certain amount of rotation is possible in ^e longitudinal axis of the digit. The very characteristic movement of opposition, in which the tip of the thumb may be applied to the tips of all the fingers, results from a combination of flexion, adduction, and rotation, and l)y combining all the movements possible at the various axes, a considerable degree of circumduction may be produced, in spite of the fact that this is not a ball-and-socket joint. (B) The articulationes carpo-metacarpese digitorum are the joints between the bases of the four inner metacarpal bones and the four bones of the distal row of the carpus. They are all arthrodial diarthroses, and the opposed articular surfaces present alternate Elevations and depressions which form a series of interlocking joints. The joint-cavities between the carpal bones of the distal row, and also the more extensive intermetacarpal joint cavities, open into this arti- culation. This series of joints is invested by a common capsule which is weakest on its radial side, but is otherwise well defined. Its fibres arrange themselves in small slips, which pass obliquely in different directions, and vary in number for each metacarpal bone. Thus the oblique palmar ligaments (ligamenta carpo-metacarpea volaria, Fig. 215) usually consist of one slip for each metacarpal bone, but there may be two slips, and the third metacarpal bone frequently has three, of which one lies obliquely in front of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis muscle. The oblique dorsal ligaments (ligamenta carpo-metacarpea dorsalia) are similar short bands, of greater strength and clearer definition, by which the index meta- carpal is bound to the trapezium and trapezoid; the middle metacarpal to the OS magnum, and frequently to the trapezoid; the ring metacarpal to the os magnum and unciform, and the metacarpal of the minimus to the unciform. Interosseous ligaments, one or sometimes two in number, occur within the capsule. They are usually situated in relation to one or both of the contiguous margins of the bases of the third and fourth metacarpal bones, from which they extend upwards to adjacent margins of the os magnum and unciform. Occasionally they are sufficiently developed to divide the joint cavity into radial and ulnar sections.