671 THE SOLAE AND PELVIC PLEXUSES. becomes continued into the hypogastric plexus, which again forms the chief origin of the pelvic plexuses. Tlie semilunar constitute the ganglia chief ganghonic centres in the solar plexuw. J They are irregular in form. They are often partially subdivided, and one detached portion at the lower end is named the aortico-renal ganglion. Other small scattered masses of cells are present in the coeliac plexus (ganglia coeliaca). At the upper end the semilunar ganglion receives the great splanchnic nerve. The aortico-renal ganglion at its lower end receives the smaller splanchnic nerve. Branches from the ganghon radiate in all directions— inwards to join the coeliac plexus, upwards to form the diaphragmatic plexus, outwards to the suprarenal plexus, downwards to the renal, superior mesenteric, and aortic plexuses. The coeliac plexus forms a consideraljle plexiform mass surrounding the coeliac axis. It consists of a dense meshwork of fibres with ganglia (g. coeliaca) intermingled, joined by numerous branches from the semilunar gang- lion on each side, and hj branches from the right pneumogastric nerve. It is continuous below with the superior mesenteric and aortic plexuses. Investing the cceliac axis, it forms subsidiary plexuses which accompany the branches of the artery. The coronary plexus supplies branches to the oesophagus and stomach; the hepatic plexus supplies branches to the liver and gall-l)ladder, stomach, duodenum, and pancreas; and the splenic plexus sends offsets to the spleen, pancreas, and stomach. Subordinate plexuses are formed on the aorta and its branches by nerves derived from the solar plexus (semilunar ganglia and coeliac plexus). a. The diaphragmatic plexus consists of fibres arising from the semilunar ganglion, and accompanies the inferior phrenic artery. Be- sides supplying the diaphragm, it gives branches to the suprarenal plexus, and on the right side to the inferior vena cava, on the left side to the oesophagus. It communicates on each side with the phrenic nerve. At the junction of the plexus and phrenic nerve of the right side a ganglion is formed (diaphragmatic ganglion). h. The suprarenal plexus is of considerable size. It is mainly derived from branches of the semilunar ganglion, reinforced by nerves T.1-12 ; L.l-5; s.i-5 ; Co, Anterior primary divisions of spinal nerves, connected to the gangliated cord of the sympatlietic by rami commnnicantes, white (double lines) and gray (single lines) ; Oes, (Esophagus and oesophageal plexus ; Ac, Aorta and aortic plexus ; Va, Vagus nerve joining oesophageal plexus ; S. 1, Great splanchnic nerve ; X, Great splanchnic ganglion ; S.2, Small splanchnic nerve ;, S.-3, Least splanchnic nerve ; Co, Coronary artery and plexus ; Spl, Splenic artery and plexus ; H, Hepatic artery and plexus ; S.L, Seun- lunar ganglion ; Di, Diaphragm ; S.R, Supra-renal capsule ; Re, Renal artery and plexus ; S.M, Superior mesenteric arterj' and plexus ; Sp, Spermatic artery and plexus ; I.M, Inferior mesenteric artery and plexus ; Hy, Hypogastric nerves and plexus ; Rec, Rectal plexus ; Ut, Uterine plexus ; Ves, Vesical plexus ; V.V.V, Visceral branches from sacral nerves. REC. ur VES. Fiu. 481. — The Arrangement of the Sympathetic System in the Thorax, Abdomen, and Pelvis.