]002 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Natural Form of the Stomach.—As seen in male Lodies tlie viscera of which have been hardened by the intravascular injection of formalin, the empty stomach, as already stated, presents an attenuated or slender jjear-sliaped appearance, and is sharply bent on itself, jjarticularly at the junction of the cardiac and pyloric portions. As a I'ule it is somewhat flattened from above downwards in its cardiac portion, but preserves in its whole length, more or less, an irregularly rounded or cjdindrical form. Its long axis is directed, in the cardiac portion, from behind forwards and to the right with a slight inclination downwards; then it liends almost at a right angle, and in the pyloric portion runs to the right towards the pylorus. Even in the empty condition, the cardiac jjortion retains, as a I'ule, an appearan<'e of rotundity, and never assumes a com])lete]y collapsed and flattened form ; although it sometimes is very much contracted, and ajjproaches the tidndar form of the jjyloric portion. The collapsed, flat-walled, and flaccid bag, often pictured as the empty stomach, does not represent its true condititin during life, Imt is raflier tlie result of post-mortem softening, re- laxation, and i^ressnre. The stomach, like the bladder, and like other hollow viscera with muscular walls, is not an inert bag, l)ut an extensile living organ capable of expansion and contraction, which adapts the size of its cavity to the amount of its contents. When food enters, it expands, the expansion being proportitmate to the aniount of food that enters; and when the food passes away or is aljsorbed, it contracts, until its cavity is reduced to little more than a stellate lumen. In the gradual passage of the stomacli from the empty to the distended condition we may recognise three stages. First stage..—This commences with an enlargement of the fundus, and is followed Ijy an expansion of the whole cardiac portion, which passes upwai'ds and also to the left towai-ds the diaphragm, displacing the coils of the transverse colon, which lie here when the stomach is empty. The jiyloric iiortion for 3 or 4 inches .still remains contracted and cylindrical. In this condition the stomach is frec]uently found after deatli. Seco7id stage.—As distension goes on the lesser curvature o2)ens out, the ])yloi'ic poi'tion (with the exception of its last inch) exi)ands, Init its junction M'ith the cardiac portion usually remains distinct, until disten- sion is almost complete. Third stage.—A further general expan.sion of the whole stomach takes place ; the diameters of l)oth cardiac and indoric jiortions, as well as the lengtli of tlie organ, are increased ; and the great curvature presses forwards, against'the anterior abdominal wall in front, where the resti-aining influence of the ribs is absent. Tlie pyloric end foi' about 1 inch (2'5 cm.) from the j)y]orus remains narrow (constituting the pyloric canal of Jonnesco), but to the left of this it l)ulges forward, forming the antrum pylori, which is most distinct at tlie great curvature. By the increase of the organ in length the antrum is carried a considerable distance to the right beneatli the liver—even further than the ])ylorns itself—so that the terminal jjart of the stomach is bent backwai'ds and to the left, in order to reach the ])ylorus, which latter very rarely passes nK)re tlian one and a half or two inches to the right of its normal position, namely, in tlie empty condition, within half-an-incli (12 mm.) of the middle line. Finally, as it fills, the stomach becomes gradually more oblique, so that in the distended .state tlie long axis of the jiosterior two-thirds of the organ is directed forwards, downwards, and to the right, and forms an angle of about 40" to 45° with both the horizontal and .sagittal planes (Fig. 674), whilst its anterior tliird is still more oblicpie. There is, however (as jiointed out by Jonnesco), no distinct rotation of the organ on its long axis—no turning of tlie great curvature more forwards, nor of tlie so-called antei ior surface more u J) wards. In the change from the distended to the emiity state these stages are reversed : the whole stomach is contracted, or drawn in, from all directions towards the lesser curvature ; this latter is Ijent u])on itself to an acute angle, and tlie long axis of the organ, becoming less oblique, ajiproaches the horizontal. Although this descrijition of the .sliajie and direction of the stomach is at variance with the generally accepted accounts, it is based \\\)om the examination of a considerable number of specially-hardened liodies, and has been found to ajiply so generally, that it is advanced here as the condition most fre(|uently found in the male immediately after death, and as, in all proliability, giving a near apjiroximation to the conditions jiresent during life. It must, however, be admitted that, in the female, as a result of tight lacing, the stomach is often found to assume an abnormal vertical position ; but this condition is associated with disjjlacement of other abdominal organs in the neighbourhood, and cannot be looked upon as normal (see page 1007). Size and Capacity of the Stomach.—Probably no organ in the body varies more ill size within the limits of health than the stomach. Moreover, as its tissues change so i-apidly after death, measurements made on softened and relaxed organs are not only worthless but quite misleading. Consequently it is difficult, perhaps impossible, to arrive at a correct estimate of its size and capacity. The length of the stomach in the fully distended condition is about 10 or II inches (25 to 27"5 cm.), and its greatest diameter not more than 4 or 4| inches (10 to 11 "2 cm.) : whilst its capacity in the average state rarely exceeds 40 ounces, or 1 quart. The length has been estimated by different authorities at from 10 to 13i inches (26 to 34 cm.); its diameter, from 3| to 6 inches (8 to 15 cm.); and its cajiacity from 1| to 5 pints. The measurements of the capacity given by Dr. Sidney Martin are probably the most accurate : he states that the capacity varies between 9 and 59 oz., with an average of from .35 to 40, or a little over a litre.