360 . THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. The lumbricales are four small muscles arising in association with the tendons of the flexor profundus digitorum in the sole. The first muscle arises by a single origin from the tibial side of the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum for the second toe; the other three arise by two heads from the adjacent sides of all four tendons. Each muscle is inserted into the dorsal expansion of the extensor tendon, the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, and the base of the first phalanx, precisely as in the case of the lumbrical muscles of the hand. Each muscle passes forwards on the tibial side of the corresponding toe, superficial to the transverse metatarsal ligament. The accessorius muscle (m. quadratus plantae) arises "by two heads: (1) the outer tendinous head springs from the outer border of the inferior surface of the OS calcis; (2) the inner head, which is fleshy, arises from the inner border of the under surface of the OS calcis. The long plantar liga- ment separates the two origins. The two heads unite to form a flattened band, which is inserted into the upper aspect of the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, and usually into the tendons destined for the second, third, and fourth toes. In the leg the flexor longus digitorum lies at first internal to the tibialis posticus, and is par- tially concealed by the soleus and tendo Achillis. Its tendon crosses over the tibialis posticus above the ankle, passes beneath the in- ternal annular ligament, invested by a special synovial sheath, and below the ligament crosses the plantar or superficial surface of the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. As it passes over this tendon it receives from it a special band of fibres usually associated with the tendons for the second and third toes. In the sole of the foot the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, along with the lumbricales and accessorius, and the flexor longus hallucis, constitute the second layer of muscles of the sole. They are placed between the abductors of the great and little toes and the flexor brevis digitorum on the one hand, and the flexor brevis and adductors of the great toe on the other. The flexor longus hallucis arises on the back of the leg from the lower two- thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula, from the fascia over it, and from inter- muscular septa on either side. Its tendon passes beneath the internal annular ligament enclosed in a special synovial sheath, and after grooving the back of the lower end of the tibia, the astragalus, and the under surface of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, it is directed forwards in the sole of the foot, to be inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx of the great toe. The muscle is partially concealed in the leg by the soleus and tendo Achillis. It lies at its origin between the tibialis posticus and the peronei muscles, separated from the former by the peroneal artery. In the foot, concealed by the abductor hallucis, it crosses over the deep aspect of the tendon of the flexor longus Fig. 265.—The Muscles of the Right Foot (after removal of the first laj'er).