693 KEFEACTING MEDIA OY THE EYEBALL. an outer, in the inner nuclear layer. The inner network arises directly from the arteries and sends numerous small branches to the outer network, from which the veins take origin. The vessels do not penetrate deeper than the inner granular layer, nor do the arteries anastomose, except through the capillary plexuses. The veins follow the course of the arteries ; they have no muscular coats, but consist merely of a layer of endothelial cells, outside which is a perivascular lymphatic sheath, surrounded by delicate retiform tissue. KEFEACTING MEDIA OF THE EYEBALL. The vitreous body (corpus vitreum) is a transparent jelly-like substance situated between the crystalline lens and the retina, and occupying the posterior four-fifths of the globe (Fig. 493). In front it presents a deep concavity, the fossa patellaris. for the reception of the posterior convexity of the lens. It is enclosed within a thin trans- parent membrane, the membrana hyaloidea, which is in contact with the membrana Umitans interna of the retina and adlierent to it at the optic entrance. The portion of the membrana hyaloidea in front of the ora serrata is thickened and strengthened by radial fibres, and is termed the zonule of Zinn, or zonula ciliaris. Situated behind the ciliary body, the zonula is radially folded and presents a series of alternabing furrows and elevations. The ciliary processes are received into, and tire firmly adherent to, the furrows, with the result that, if removed, some of their pigment remains attached to the zonula. The elevations of the zonula are not attached to the interciliary depressions, but are separated by a series of lymph spaces (recessus camene posterioris); these may be regarded as diverticula, of the posterior chamber with which they communicate. As the zonula approaches the equator of the lens it splits into two chief layers, viz.: (a) a thin posterior lamina, which covers that portion of the membrana hyaloidea which lines the fossa patellaris; and (5) a thicker anterior layer, termed the suspensory ligament of the lens (Fig. 493), which blends with the front of the lens capsule a short distance from its equator. Scattered fibres of this ligament are also attached to the equator itself and to the regions immediately anterior and posterior to it. By this suspensory ligament the lens is retained in position and its convexity varies inversely with the degree of tension of the ligament. The radial fibres of the ciliary muscle, by pulling forward the ciliary processes and the attached zonule of Zinn, relax the ligament, and thus allow the lens to become more convex. Behind the suspensory ligament a sacculated lymph space surrounds the equator of the lens ; it is named the canal of Petit, and may easily be inflated on introducing a fine blow pipe through the suspensory liga- ment (Fig. 503). The hyaloid membrane of the vitreous body is not only adherent to the ciliary pro- cesses, but also at the optic entrance. This is due to the fact that in the fcetus a blood-vessel, termed the arteria hyaloidea, is continued from the arteria centralis retime forwards through the vitreous body for the supply of the capsule of the lens. Its position, in the adult, is represented by a lymph channel, termed the canalis hyaloideus of Stilling (Fig. 493), the presence of which may be demon- strated by shaking up the vitreous body in a solution of picrocarniine, when some of the yiigment may be seen to extend along the canal (Anderson Stuart). When the vitreous body is treated by a weak solution of chromic acid it presents a series of concentric, peripherally-arranged striae, together with numerous radial strite converging towards its centre. Between these the more fluid part lies, and it frequently contains vacuolated amoeboid cells scattered through it. The vitreous body consists of 98 4 per cent, of water, having in solu- tion about 1-4 per cent, of sodium chloride and traces of extractives and albumen. The crystalline lens (lens crystalbna) lies in front of the vitreous body and behind the iris, and is a biconvex, transparent body (Fig. 493). It is enclosed in a thin, transparent, homogeneous capsule, the capsule of the lens (capsula lentis). The central points of its anterior and posterior surfaces are termed respectively its 44 a Fig. 503.—Canal of Pk'iit distended AND ViEWEU FROM THU FRONT (enlarged).