SPINAL COED. 421 of the coccyx. This prolongation receives the name of the filum terminale. The diameter of the cord is very much shorter than that of the spinal canal within which it lies. A wide interval is left between its surface and the walls of its canal, and this excess of space is clearly a provision for allowing free movement of the vertebral column without producing any jarring contact between the delicate spinal cord and the surrounding bones. Three protective membranes are wrapped around the coid. From within outwards these are termed (1) the pia mater; (2) the arachnoid mater, and (3) the dura mater. The pia mater is a fibrous mem- brane which forms the immediate investraent. It is closely applied to the cord, and from its deep surface numerous fine septa penetrate into the substance of the cord. The arachnoid mater is an exceedingly delicate transparent membrane which is loosely wrapped around the cord so as to leave a considerable interval, termed the subarachnoid space, between itself and the pia mater, in which there is always a varying amount of cerebrospinal fiuid. Outside the arachnoid mater, the dura mater forms a wide, dense, fibrous, tiibular sheath, which extends downwards within the spinal canal for a con- siderable distance beyond the conical extremity of the cord. The spinal cord is suspended within its sheath or theca of dura mater by two lateral wing-like ligaments, termed the ligamenta denticulata. These extend outwards from the sides of the cord and are attached by a series of pointed or tooth-like processes to the inner surface of the theca of dura mater. Between the wall of the spinal canal and the dura mater there is a narrow interval, which is filled up by soft areolo-fatty tissue and numerous thin- walled veins arranged in a plexiform manner. Thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves arise from the sides of the spinal cord. These are classified ^'"i; 315.--the Conus Meddllaeis and the . . . 1 , • T J T 1 If T 1 FiLUM Terminale exposed within the into eight cervical, twelve dorsal, five lumbar, spinal Canal. five sacral, and one coccygeal; and according to the attachments of these groups of nerves the spinal cord is arbitrarily sub- divided into a cervical, dorsal, lumbar, and sacral region. In employing these termSj therefore, to different districts of the cord, it must be understood that the regions are determined by the nerve attachments, and not by any direct relation- ship between these parts of the cord and the sections of the vertebral column which bear the same names. Each spinal nerve is attached to the cord by a ventral and a dorsal root, and as these are traced to their central attachments they are seen to break up into a number of separate nerve fascicles or bundles, which spread out, in some cases very widely from each other, as they approach the side of the cord (Fig. 316). Each pair of nerves is therefore attached to a portion of spinal cord of some length, and such a portion, with its pair of nerves, receives the name of a " segment of the spinal cord." It must be clearly understood, however, that, in so far as the surface of the cord is concerned, there is absolutely no means of marking off one segment from another, except by the nerve attachments. In the cervical and himbar regions of the cord the nerve-roots are somewhat crowded together, so that little or no interval is left between the adjoining root fascicles of neighbouring nerves. In the dorsal region, however, distinct intervals may be observed, and the root fascicles are more loosely arranged. From this, it will be evident that the cord segments in different parts of the cord are not of equal length. In the cervical region the segments measure aliout 12 mm. in length, in the dorsal region from 20 to 24 mm., and in the lumbar region about 10 mm.