947 THE MOUTH. former, that is, iu the deeper part of the submucosa, the coronary artery is found a short distance from the free margin of the lip, running to meet its fellow of the opposite side. The free margin of tlie hp is covered by a dry and otherwise modified mucous membrane. It begins wliere tlie integument changes colour at the outer edge of the hp, and ends posteriorly just behind the line along which the two lips meet when closed, where it jjasses into the ordinary 'moist mucous membrane of the vestibule. It presents numerous simjjle vascular papillae, and its nerves (wliicli-are derived from the infra-orbital in the upper lip, from the long buccal at the angles, and from the mental branch of the inferior dental in the lower lip) terminate in special end organs, hence the acute sensitiveness of this part. In tlie child, at birth, the margin of the lip is divided l)y a very pronounced groove or fissure into an outer and an inner zone, differing considerably in theii' appearance. When the tongue is pressed firmly against the back of the lips and moved alaout, the labial glands can be distinctly felt through the mucous membrane, giving tlie impression of a knol^by or irregular surface. The glands, which are aljout the size of hemp-seeds and can be readily displayed Ijy removing the mucous membrane, are more numerous in the lower than in the iqjper lip. Stojjpage of their ducts, with the resulting distension of the glands, gives rise to " mucous cysts," a well-known pathological condition. It should be remembered, in connexion with epithelioma of this part, that the lymphatics of both lips pass down to join the sid^maxillary lymphatic glands. Cheeks (bucc[e).—The. cheeks resemble the lips in structure, being formed of cor- responding layers. Superficially is the skin. Under this lies the fatty superficial fascia of the face, through which Stenson's duct runs inwards to pierce the buccinator; in it also, near the end of the duct, are found four or five mucous glands, as large as hemp-seeds. These are known as the molar glands (glandulse molares); their ducts pierce the cheek and open into the vestibule. Beneath this superficial fascia lies the buccinator muscle, covered by the thin bucco- pharyngeal aponeurosis. Deeper still is the submucosa, which, like that of the lipa, contains numerous racemose buccal glands (glandulae buccales). And finally the mucous membrane is reached (Fig. 640). An important constituent of the clieek of the infant is the sucking pad (corpus adipusum biiccse), an encapsided mass of fat, distinct from the surrounding superficial fascia, which lies on the outer side of the buccinator, and passes backwards into the large recess between that muscle and the overlying anterior part of the masseter. This fatty mass, which is relatively more developed in the child than in the adult, strengthens the cheek, and helps it to resist the effects of atmospheric pressure during the act of sucking. In the. adult the remains of the pad can be distinctly made out under the anterior border of the masseter. Cavity of the Mouth Proper (cavum oris proprium).—This is the space situated within the dental arches, which latter, with the gums, separate it from the vestibule (Fig. 637), so that the two communicate, when the teeth are in contact, only by the irregular interdental spaces, and through the passages behind the wisdom teeth already referred to. - Posteriorly it opens, through the isthmus of the fauces, into the pharynx (Fig. 638). Its roof is formed by the hard and the greater part of the soft palate; whilst its floor, in the ordinary resting condition, is entirely occupied by the tongue (Fig. 640). If, however, the tip and marginal parts of the tongue be raised, there is exposed a limited surface to which the term " floor of the mouth " or sublingual region is more usually applied (Fig. 643). The sublingual region (Fig. G43) is covered by the oral mucous memljrane which is carried across from the deep surface of the gum to the inferior aspect of the tongue, with the mucous membrane of which it becomes continuous. When the tip of the tongue is raised the membrane forms in the middle line a prominent fold, the frenum linguae, stretching from the floor of the mouth to the under surface of the tongue. On eacli side of the frenum, near its junction with the floor, there can be readily made out a prominent soft papilla (caruncula sublingualis), on which the opening of Wharton's duct (of the submaxillary gland) may be seen (Fig. 643). Eunning outwards and backwards on each side from this, and occupy- ing the greater part of the floor of the moutli, there is a well-marked ridge (plica sublingualis) due to the projection of the underlying sublingual gland, most of the ducts of which open near the crest of the ridge.