THE SUPERIOR VENA CAVA AND ITS TEIBUTAEIES. 827 commence in the substance of the walls of the heart, and terminate directly in its cavities, principally in the auricles ; some few, however, open into the ventricles. THE SUPERIOR VENA CAVA AND ITS TRIBUTARIES. The superior vena cava (Figs. 551 and 552) returns the blood from the head and neck, the upper extremities, the thoracic wall, and a portion of the upper part of the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is formed, immediately behind the lower part of the first right costal cartilage, by the union of the two innominate veins, and it descends, with a slight convexity to the right, to the level of the third right costal cartilage, where it opens into the upper and back part of the right auricle. It is about three inches (7"5 cm.) long; in the lower half of its extent it is enclosed within the fibrous layer of the pericardium, and it is covered in front and later- ally by the serous layer. Relations.—It is overlajiped in front by the margins of the right lung and pleural sac and by tlie ascending aorta. The lung and pleura intervene between it and the second and third costal cartilages, the internal intercostal muscles in the first and second intercostal spaces, and the internal mammary vessels. It is in relation behind with the right vagus nerve, the vena azj^gos major, the right bronchus, the right pulmonary artery, and the upper right pulmonary vein. On its left side are the commencement of the innominate artery and the ascending portion of the aorta, whilst on the right side it is in close relation with the right pleura, the phrenic nerve and comes nervi phrenici vessels intervening. Tributaries. — In addition to the two innominate veins, by the union of which it is formed, the superior vena cava only receives one large tributary, viz. the vena azygos major ; but several small pericardial and mediastinal veins open into it. The Azygos Veins.' The vena azygos major (v. azygos, Fig. 592) commences either from the back of the inferior vena cava, at the level of the right renal vein, or as the direct upward continuation of an anastomosing channel which connects together the lumbar veins of the right side, and which is known as the right ascending lumbar vein. The great azygos vein ascends through the aortic orifice of the diaphragm, and is continued upwards through the posterior mediastinum. In the upper part of its course, it first passes behind and then arches forwards above the root of the right lung to its termination in the posterior part of the superior vena cava, immediately bsfore the latter vessel pierces the pericardium. It frequently possesses imperfect valves. Relations.—In the abdomen it lies on the bodies of the upper lumbar vertebrne, behind the right crus of the diaphragm and the inferior vena cava, and to the right side of the thoracic duct. In the thorax it lies on the bodies of the lower eight dorsal vertebraj, the intervening discs, and the anterior common ligament, and it crosses in front of the right aortic inter- costal arteries. In the lower part of the posterior mediastinum it is covered in front by the right pleura and lung ; at a higher level it is overlapped by the right margin of the oeso- phagus, and immediately before its termination it is crossed by tlie root of the right lung. On its right side it receives the right posterior intercostal veins. On its left side it is in relation, in the greater part of its extent, with the thoracic duct and, as it arches for- wards over the root of the lung, with the right vagus nerve. About the level of the seventh dorsal vertebra it receives the vena azygos minor superior, whilst at the level of the eighth dorsal vertebra tlie vena azygos minor inferior opens into it. In addition to the left azygos veins it receives the right posterior intercostal veins, except that from the first space but including the right superior intercostal vein, the right subcostal vein, and, tlirough the ascending lumbar vein, the upper right lumbar veins. It also receives tiic rioht bronchial veins and some small oesophageal, pericardial, and mediastinal tributaries. The vena azygos minor superior (v. hemiazygos accessoria) is formed by the union of the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh left posterior intercostal veins. It lies in the posterior mediastinum on the left sides of the bodies of the fifth, sixth, and seventh dorsal vertebrae, and crosses the spine from left to right opposite the body of the seventh dorsal vertebra, passing behind the aorta, oesophagus, and thoracic duct; it terminates in the vena azygos