THE MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 383 The muscle is covered over by the external pterygoid muscle, by branches of the inferior maxillary nerve, and by the internal lateral ligament and ramus of the lower jaw. Beneath it are the Eustachian tube, muscles of the soft palate, and pharynx (superior constrictor). Nerve Supply. The inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve supplies all the muscles of mastication except the buccinator, which is supplied by the facial nerve. The internal pterygoid muscle is supplied by the nerve before its division into anterior and posterior jJarts ; the other muscles are innervated by the anterior trunk. Actions. The above muscles, assisted by others in the neck, produce the various movements of the lower jaw, as follows :— a. Opening and Closure of the Jaw. Weight of the jaw * Digastric Mylo-hyOid Genio-hyoid Genio-hyoglossus Infra-hyoid muscles Masseter Temj^oral Internal jDterygoid 6. Proliraction and Retraction. External pterygoid Internal pterygoid Temporal {anterior fibres) Temporal (posterior fibres) c. Lateral Movement of the Jaw. External pterygoid \ Internal „ / (of one side) THE MUSCLES OF THE NECK. The muscles in the neck include, in addition to those associated with the muscles of the back, and described already (p. 363), the following series :—(1) sterno-cleido- mastoid ; (2) the muscles of the hyoid bone (supra-hyoid and infra-hyoid); (3) the muscles of the tongue (extrinsic and intrinsic); (4) the muscles of the pharynx and soft palate ; and (5) the prevertebral muscles. The sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is the prominent muscle projecting on the side of the neck. It arises by two heads—(1) sternal, from the anterior surface of the manubrium sterni, and (2) clavicular, from the upper surface of the clavicle in its inner third. The muscle is inserted into the mastoid process and superior curved line of the occipital bone. It stretches obliquely across the neck, separating the anterior and posterior triangles. Superficially it is crossed by the platysma, the external jugular vein, and some of the superficial branches of the cervical plexus. It conceals the splenius capitis, digastric, levator anguli scapulse, scaleni and infra-hyoid muscles, the carotid sheath, the cervical plexus, and the spinal accessory nerve. The last-named nerve pierces the nmscle. Tlie sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is properly divisible into three parts: (1) sterno-mastoid, placed superficially, and passing obliquely from the sternum to the mastoid process ; (2) cleido- mastoid, ])laced more deeply, and directed vertically upwards from the clavicle to the mastoid process; and (3) cleido-occipitalis, passing obliquely upwards and backwards behind the cleido- mastoid to the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The sterno-mastoid muscle is innervated by the spinal accessory nerve, joined by a branch from the cervical plexus (C. 2). The action of the miiscle is referred to below. The Muscles of the Hyoid Bone. The infra - hyoid muscles comprise the omo - hyoid, sterno - hyoid, sterno- thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscles.