OSTEOLOGY. 244 being developed from secondary centi'es which appear from two to four years after birth, fusion with the shaft being usually completed about the eighteenth year. In striking contrast to this is the mode of ossification of the first metatarsal. From its primary centre the head and shaft is developed; the secondary centre appears at its hase about the second or third year, and fuses with the shaft about eighteen. In this respect, there- fore, the metatarsal bone of the great toe resembles in its mode of development the phalanges. Mayet, however {Bull. Soc. Anat. Paris, 1895), describes the occurrence of two ossific centres in the proximal epiphysis. These fuse early, and he considers that the one represents the metatarsal element, whilst the other may be regarded as phalangeal in its origin. The Phalanges. III. IjNGUALi OR TERMINAL PHALANX II. Phalanx I. Phalanx The phalanges of the toes (phalanges digitorum pedis) differ from those of the fingers in the striking reduction of their size, and in the case of the bones of the first row, in the lateral compression of their shafts. Each toe is provided normally with three phalanges, except the great toe, which has only two. In their general configura- tion, and in the arrangement of their articular facets, they resemble the digital phalanges, though, owing to the re- duction in their size, the shafts, particularly those of the second row, are often so compressed longitudinally as to reduce the bone to a mere nodule. The proximal end of each of the bones of the first row is proportionately large, and is provided with a simple hollow in which the head of the metatarsal bone rests; the distal ends are furnished with condyloid surfaces. The proximal extremities of the second row are each provided with two small concavities, separated by a slight ridge for articulation with the condyles of the first row. The joint between the second and third row displays the same arrangement — the third, terminal or ungual phalanx, being easily distinguished by the spatula- shaped surface at its extremity on which the bed of the nail is supported. The phalanges of the great toe, two in number, differ from the others in their size and length. Into the base of the first phalanx are inserted the short muscles of the great toe, whilst the second phalanx receives on its plantar aspect the insertion of the flexor longus hallucis muscle, the tendon of the ex- tensor longus hallucis being inserted into the dorsal aspect. Architecture.—In their general .structure they resemble the bones of the fingers. Variations.—It is not uncommon to meet with fusion of the second and third phalanges, particularly in the fifth, less frequently in the fourth, and occasionally in the second and third toes. The luiion of the ])halangeal elements has been observed in the f'jetus as well as the adult (Pliitzner). The proportionate length of the phalanges varies much; in some cases the ungual jihalanges are of fair size, the bones of the second row being mere nodules, whilst in other instances the reduction in size of the terminal phalanges is most marked. Ossification.—Each phalanx is developed from two centres—one primary for the shaft and distal extremity, the other for tlie epiphysis on the proximal end. The primary centres for the ungual phalanges are the first to appeal", commencing to ossify from the eleventh to the twelfth week of foetal life. The centre for the ungual phalanx of the great toe makes its appearance before that of its corresponding metatarsal bone. The primary centres for the phalanges of the first row appear from the fourteenth to the sixteenth week. The primary centres for the middle phalanges of the second and third toes begin to ossify about the sixth month, those for the fourth and fifth toes not till later—the shaft of the middle phalanx of the fourtli toe being frequently cartilaginous at birth, the normal condition in the case of the fifth toe (Lambertz). The proximal epiphyses do not begm to ossify until about the fourth year, and are usually fused with the diaphyses about the age of sixteen or eighteen. Union between the shafts and epiphyses of the first row precedes that of the second and third rows. Metatarsal Pig. 192.—The Phalanges OF THE Toes (dorsal aspect).