276 THE AETICULATIONS OE JOINTS. by one end to the tip of the styloid process of the radius, and by the other to a rough area at the base of the tubercle of the scaphoid bone, i.e. external to its radial articular surface. The internal lateral ligament (Fig. 216) is also a distinct rounded structure, having one end attached to the tip of the styloid process of the ulna and the other to the rough non-articular border of the cuneiform bone, some of its fibres being prolonged to the pisiform bone. The anterior ligament (Fig. 216) is attached superiorly to the anterior margin of the lower end of the radius, as well as slightly to the base of the styloid process of the ulna. Some transverse fibres may be seen, but the greater number pass obliquely downwards and inwards to the palmar non-articular surfaces of the scaphoid, semi- lunar, and cuneiform bones, while some of them may even be con- tinued as far as the os magnum. Those fibres from the ulna run obliquely outwards. On its deeper aspect this ligament is closely adherent to the anterior border of the triangular fibro-cartilage of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation. The posterior ligament extends from the posterior margin of the lower end of the radius, obliquely downwards and inwards, to the dorsal non-articular areas on the proximal row of the carpal bones. The slip to the latter assists in forming the fibrous sheath through which the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris muscle travels to its insertion. The principal bundle of fibres is connected with the cuneiform bone. The synovial membrane (Fig. 217) is simple, and is confined to the articulation, except in those cases in which the triangular fibro-cartilage is perforated, or in which one of the interosseous ligaments between the carpal bones of the first row is absent. Movements at the Radio-carpal Joint.—The radio-cai jial joint affords an excellent example of a liiaxial articulation, in wliicli a long transverse axis of movement is situated more or le.ss at right angles to a short axis placed in the antero-posterior direction. The nature of the move- ments which are possible about these two axes is essentially the same in both cases, viz. flexion and extension. The movements about the longer transverse axis are anterior or palmar flexion, extension, and its continuation into dorsi-flexion. About the shorter antero-posterior axis we get movements which result from combined action by certain flexor and extensor muscles, whereby the radial or ulnar borders of the hand may be aj^proximated towards the corresponding borders of the forearm. Lateral movement may also be possible to a slight extent. The range of move- ment in connexion with either of the principal axes is largely a matter of individual jieculiarity, for, with the excej^tion of the lateral ligaments, there is no serious obstacle to the cultivation of greater mobility at the radio-carpal joint. CARPAL JOINTS. The articulations subsisting between the individual carpal bones (articulationes intercarpea3) are all diarthroses, and although the total amount of movement throughout the series is considerable, yet the extent of movement which is possible