938 THE KESriRATORY SYSTEM. Fissures and Lobes of the Lungs.—The left lung is divided into two lolies l)y a Idiig dee]> iissure wliicli penetrates its sul)Staiice to witliiu a short distance of the hihis. Above and below the hilns this fissure cuts riirht throu":h the Imv' and appears ^ipon the mediastinal or inner surface. Viewed from the outer aspect of the organ, it begins at the posterior border aljout two and a-half inches below the summit of the apex, about the level of the vertebral end of the third rib, and is continued downwards and forwards in a somewhat spiral direction to the liase of the lung, which it reaches a short distance l)e]iind its anterior end. The upper lobe of the lung (lobus superior) lies above and in front of this cleft. It is conical in form, with an oblique base, and the apex and the whole of the anterior border of the lung belong to it. The lower lobe (lobus inferior) lies l^elow and l)ehind the fissure. It is the more bulky of the two, and includes almost the entire base and the greater part of the thick posterior l)order. In the right lung there are two fissures sulidividing it into three lol)es. One of these fissures is very similar in its position and relations to the fissure in the left lung. It is, however, rather more vertical in its direction, and ends l)elow somewhat further outwards. It separates the lower lobe from the upper and middle lol)es. The second cleft l)egins in the main fissure at the posterior border of the lung, and proceeds Inn'izontally forwards, to end at the anterior border of the lung at the level of the fourth costal cartilage. Tlie middle or intermediate lobe of tlie riglit lung is triangular or wedge shaped in outline. Variations.—Variations in the pidiuonaiy fissures are fairly conunoii. Thus it sometiiiu's hapjiens that tlie nudclle lobe of the riglit lung is imperfectly cut off from the upper lohe. Supernumerary fissures also are not infrequent, and in this way the left lung may be cut into three hjbes, and the right lung into four or even more lohes. The occurrence of a lobus azygos in the right lung is a variation of some interest, seeing that such a lobe is constant in certain mammals. It is a small accessory lolte, ])yramidal in form, which makes its appearance on the lower part of the inner aspect of the right lung. In certain cases the vena azygos major is enclosed M-itliiu a fold of i:>leura, and is sunk so deeply in tlie pulmonary substance of the right lung that it marks off a small accessory lobe. ROOT OF THE LUNG. The term root of the. lung (radix pulmonis) is applied to a numl)er of structures wliich enter and leave the lung at the hilus on its inner surface. They are held together liy an investment of pleura, and constitute a pedicle wdiich attaches the lung to the mediastinal wall of the pleural cavity. The phrenic nerve descends a short distance in front of tlie pulmonary root, whilst the vagus nerve l^reaks up into the posterior pulmonary plexus on its posterior aspect under cover of the investing pleura. The delicate anterior pulmonary plexus is placed in front of the root of the lung beneath the pleura, whilst from the lower border of the root of the lung the ligamentum latum pulmonis extends downwards. . These are the relations whicli are common to the pulmonary root on both sides of the body, liut there are others which are peculiar to each side. On the right side the superior vena cava lies in front of the pulmonary root, whilst tlie vena azygos major arches over its upper aspect. On the left side the aorta arches over the root of the lung, whilst tlie descending thoracic aorta jiasses down Itehind it. Constituent Parts of the Pulmonary Root.—The most important structures wliich enter into the formation of the ])ulmonary root are (1) the two pulmonary veins: (2) the pulmonary artery; (3) the lironchus. But in addition to these there are one or more small bronchial arteries and veins, the Yiulmonary nerves and the pulmonary lymphatic vessels, and some bronchial glands. Tlie pulmonary nerves come from the vagus nerve and also from the sympathetic system. Tliey enter the lung and follow the air-tubes through the organ. The broncliial arteries are small vessels which carry lilood for the supply of the lung tissue. They arise fi-om the aorta or from an intercostal artery, and vary in numlier from one to three for each lung. In the root of the lung they lie on the posterior aspect of the bronchus, and they follow the air-tubes through the organ. Part of the blood conveyed to the lung l)y the binnchial arteries is returned by the ])iilmonary veins; the remainder is returned by special bronchial veins which open on the right side into tlu- vena azygos major, and on the left side into the vena azygos minor superior. The lymphatic vessels of the lung, as they emerge from the hilus, unite into a small number of trunks, which, placed behind the large pulmonary vessels, open into the bronchial glands.