975 DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. junction of the two, nee Fig, 649), and some of the dentinal tubes are continuous with the lacunte of the cementum. Like true bone, it is laminated, it possesses lacunte, canaliculi, and, when in large masses, it may even contain a few Haversian canals. The tooth pulp occupies the pulp cavity and the root canals of the teeth. It is composed of a luimber of branched connective tissue cells, the anastomosing processes of which form a fine connective tissue network, containing in its meshes a jelly-like material, in addition to numerous vessels and nerves, but no lymphatics. Tlie most superficial of these cells form in the young tooth a continuous layer of columnar, epithelium-like cells, lying on the surface of the pulp against the dentine ; they are known as odontoblasts, for they are the active agents in the formation of dentine. From the outer ends of the odontoblasts processes are continued into the dentinal tubes, where they have been already- referred to as Tomes' fibrils. The vessels of the pulp are numerous, and form a capillary plexus immediately within the odontoblasts. The nerves form rich plexuses throughout the pulp, but their exact mode of ending is unknown. The alveolar periosteum (alveolo-dental periosteum or root-membrane) is a layer of connective tissue free from elastic fibres, but well supplied both with blood-vessels and nerves, which fixes the root of the tooth in the alveolus, being firmly united by perforat- ing fibres of Sharpey, to the crusta petrosa on the one hand, and to the bone of the alveolus on the other. It establishes a communication between the bone of the jaw and the cementum, and above it is continuous with the tissue of the gum. Its blood comes chiefly from the arteries, which subsequently enter the apical canals for the supply of the pulp, but in part also from the vessels of the bone and those of the gum (hence the relief obtained in dental periostitis by lancing the gum). Development of the Teeth. At the beginning of this chapter a tooth was described as a calcified papilla of the mucous membrane, composed of two chief parts—namel}', the enamel formed by the epithelial layer, and the dentine by the connective tissue layer of the mucous membrane. The details of the process by which such a tooth is developed from the two layers of the mucous mem- brane are both numerous and intricate, and can be but briefly described here. In lower vertebrates (sharks, rays, etc.), teeth which correspond essentially, both in structure and development, to those of mammals, are found on the surface of the body, and are known as dermal teeth. The following outline of the development of the dermal tooth of a shark may assist in rendering the development of the human teeth more intelligible :— First, a papilla is formed from the corium or connective tissue layer of the skin (Fig. 658, B), whicli papilla is covered over by the epithelial layer. Next the superficial (connective tissue) cells of the papilla begin to fonn a layer of dentine on the surface of the papilla (Fig. 658, C), which it soon encases, the remains of the papilla persisting in the interior as the future pulp. At tlie same time the deepest cells of the epithelium deposit a layer of enamel, outside the dentine, over the summit of the papilla (Fig. 658, C), and subsequently the two — enamel and dentine— become inseparably united, thus giving rise to the substance of the tooth. At a later period the epithelium covering the summit disappears and the tooth comes to the surface : this constitutes its eruption (Fig. 658, D). In the case of the manunalian tooth a similar process takes place, not, however, on the surface, but deep down in the substance of the gum, into which a downgrowth of epithel- ium has previously taken place. This epithelial downgrowth spreads out in the substance of the jaw, and into it the papilla grows up, and goes through the other changes described above, as if the whole process took place on the surface. Development of Human Teeth.—The following is a brief summary of the chief events in the development of a liuman tooth. For convenience in expression and terms, A, Section of skill .showing epithelium I', basement mem- brane h, and connec- tive tissue layer c. B sliows the papilla of the connective tissue layer growing np covered by the epi- thelial layer. In C the .superficial cells of the papilla c begin to deposit dentine d over the papilla, and at tlie same time the deepest cells of the epithelium deposit enamel u. D shows the tooth breaking through the eijithelium and reaching the surface. Fig. 658.—Diagram to illustbate the Development of a Dermal Tooth IN THE Shark. In all figures—a, enamel; h, basentent mem- brane ; '■, connective tissue layer of skin ; dentine : c, epithelium ; and r, superficial cells of papilla.