MUSCLES ON FEONT AND INNEE ASPECT OF EOEEAEM. 325 the flexor carpi radialis aud the flexor' carpi ulnaris, and covers the flexor sublimis digitorum. In the lower third of the forearm' its tendon is } ' > (ii placed directly over the median nerve, along the outer border of the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum. Biceps Musculo-spiral nerve Brachio- RADIALI; Extensor carpi radialis LONGIOR Posterior interosseous nerve Supinator radii BREVIS Hadial Brachio-radialis Bracliial artery Median nerve Ij Inar nerve Semilunar fascia (reflected) OllXGlNS OF superficial muscles Ulnar Humeral = 3 w o 2 Extensor carpi radialis lonoior Extensor carpi RADIALIS BREVIOR Extensor ossis METACARPI POLLICIS Radial artery Flexor carpi RADIALIS (tendon) A Flexor carpi ulnaris The palmaris loiigus is the most varial.)le iiniscle in the body, and is often aljsent (10 jjer cent). The flexor carpi ulnaris muscle has a double origin,from the humerus and from the ulna. (1) It arises from the common tendon attached to the condyle of the humerus, the fascia over it, and an inter- muscular septum externally. (2) By means of the deep fascia of the forearm it obtains an attachment to the olecranon process and the posterior border of the ulna in its upper three-fifths. The fleshy fibres join a tendon vfhich lies on the anterior border of the muscle and is inserted into the pisi- form bone. The muscle is superficially placed along the inner border of the forearm. It lies in- ternal to the palmaris longus and flexor sublimis digitorum, and conceals the flexor pro- fundus digitorum. The ulnar nerve (which enters the fore- arm between the two heads of Muscular brand . . r> i 1 IN- of median nerv origin 01 the muscle) is "con- cealed by it in its whole length. The ulnar artery lies under cover of the muscle in its lower two-thirds. The tendon of the muscle serves as a guide to the artery in the lower half of the forearm. The flexor sublimis digi- torum occupies a deeper plane than the four previous muscles. It has a threefold origin, from the humerus, radius, and ulna. (1) The chief or hum eral origin is from the internal condyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from the internal lateral ligament of the elbow, and from adjacent intermus- cular septa. (2) The ulnar origin is by a slender fasciculus from the inner border of the Goronoid process of the ulna, above the origin of the pronator radii teres. Ulnar artery Division of ulnar nerve Deep branch Antenor annular ligament OpPONENS POLLICIS Abductor pollicis Flexor brevis pollicis 1^ Tendons of flexor ) sublimis digitorum Tendons of I-flexor pro- j FUNDUS digitorum Fig. 241. The Muscles and Nerves on the Front of the Forearm and Hand. and pahuaris longus Tlie pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radiali have been removed.