THE DIUESTIVE si'STEM. 994 Owing to the fact that the boundaries of the abdomen are formed chiefly of muscles, it follows that its walls are capable of contraction to a greater or less degree, and the size of the cavity can consequently be altered in all directions. Its chief changes in form, however, are due to the descent or elevation of the diaphragm, the contraction or relaxation of the anterior and lateral walls, and the raising or lowering of the pelvic floor. Within the muscles forming its walls, the abdomen is lined l)y fasciae, which I , I . I I I r , , I , T I I , SCALE IN INCHES SCALE IM CENTIMETRES Fifi. 670.—The Abdominal Viscera is Situ, as .seen when the abdomen i.s laid open ami tlie great oinentmn removed (drawn to scale iVoni a photograph of a male body aged 56, hardened by formalin injections). Tlie ribs on the right side are indicated by Roman nnmerals ; it will be observed that the eighth costal cartilage articulated with the sternum on both sides. The subcostal, intertubercular, and right and left Poupart_ lines are drawn in black, and the mesial plane is indicated by a dotted line. The intercostal ninscles and part of the diaphragm have been removed, to show the liver and stomach extending np beneath the ribs. The stomach is moderately distended, and the intestines are particularly regular in their arrangement. separate the muscles from the extraperitoneal connective tissue and peritoneum. These fasciae are—(1) the transversaiis fascia o;i the anterior and lateral walls, lining the deep surface of the transversaiis muscle and continuous above with the fascia clothing the under surface of the diaphragm; (2) the iliac fascia on the posterior wall, covering the psoas and iliacus muscles; (3) the anterior layer ot the lumbar aponeurosis, also on the posterior wall co\-ering the front of the quadratus lumborum; and (4) the felvic fascia, lining the pelvis. Apertures.—Certain apertures are found in the walls of the abdomen, some ot which lead to a weakening of the parietes. These are: the three openings in the