THE KIDNEYS. 1085 and is the hepatic impression (impressio hepatica); another stretclies from the most prominent point to the lower end of the kidney, and is related to the colon; while the tliird extends along the inner margin, below the hihis, and is in contact with the second part of the duodenum (Fig. 730). On the left hidney, also, three more or less marked, flattened impressions slope towards the borders of the organ from the most prominent part of the anterior surface. One of these, on the upper and outer part of the kidney, is the splenic impression; another, extending downwards to tlie lower end of the kidney, is for the colon, or for the colon and jejunum ; while the third, or impressio gastrica, corre- sponds to the position of the overlying stomach. The gastric impression occupies an area of the anterior surface of the left kidney, above and in the region of the hilus. Only a small portion of this impression is directlj' in contact with the stomach, since the pancreas and a part of the suprarenal capsule intervene between the stomach and the kidney (Fig. 730). It is common to find the left kidney tliicker and less flattened antero-posteriorlj than the right, the impressions, or facets, upon its surface being at the same time better marked. Witli this is probably to be associated the fact that Jfoatinc/ kidnei/ is more rarely met with on the left side than on the right. Papilla Papilla Extremities of the Kidney.—The kidney, fixed and hardened in situ, is usually more pointed at its loiver than at its upper end. The latter is more flattened from before backwards, and wider from side to side. This flattened part of the kidney rests upon the diaphragm, and is bent somewhat forward. Renal Sinus (sinus renalis).—The sinus of the kidney (Fig. 731), into wliich the hilus opens, is a narrow space, having its long axis corresponding to that of the kidney. The thick walls of the sinus cavity are formed by the substance of the kidney, and lined by a part of the fibrous kidney capsule which enters the sinus over the lips of the hilus. The iioor of the sinus is not smootli, but pre- sents a series of small projecting conical elevations called renal papillae (papillae renales), which vary from twelve to' fifteen in number. Eadiating from each 'papilla are a numl^er of bars or ridges of kidney substance, some- what raised, and having depressed areas between them. The Idood- vessels and nerves enter and leave the kidney by piercing the wall of the sinus where it is formed Ijy these little depressed areas. When the vessels and nerves are removed these depressions present a cribri- •form appearance (arete cril^rosaj. Fig. 731). The summit of each renal papilla is pierced l)y a num- ber of minute openings called fora- mina papillaria. Tliese are the terminal apertures of the secreting tubules, of which the kidney is to a large extent composed, and tlie urine secreted l»y tlie kidney escapes thrdtigh them into the upper part of the ureter. Kidney in Section.—Sections (Fig. 731) through the kidney show it to be, for the most part, composed of a number of pyramidal masses arranged with their Ijases towards the surface, while their apices project into the sinus of tlie kidney ami form the renal papilkie already descriljed. Tliese masses of kidney suljstance Cortex Column of Berlin Papilla Pyramid FlO. 731.—LlJNGITUDINAL SECTION THROUGH THE KlDNEY. The vessels and fat have been removed to give a view of the wall of the kidney sinus. The points where the vessels enter the kidney sinus are seen as little holes in tlie sinus wall at (( and elsewhere.