982 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. lower part or phaiynx proper, wliich is further subdivided—})erhaps unnecessarily— into the oral pharynx (pars oralis) lying Itehind the mouth and tongue, and the laryngeal pharynx (pars laryngea) l)ehin(l tlie larynx. The aperture left lietween the soft palate and the posterior wall of the pharynx, through which the naso-pharynx communicates with the lower divisions of the cavity, may conveniently be called the pharyngeal isthmus (isthmus pharyngo-nasalis). The pharynx presents seven ojienings through wliich it communicates with neighliouring cavities (Fig. (iGO). These are the two posterior nares (choanse) on the anterior wall, and the two Eustacliian tul)es on the sides of tlie naso- Fio. 662.—The Naso pharynx fko.m the Front. A coronal section was made throngh the upper part of the head ; this passed immediately in front of the posterior edge of the nasal se])tum, and extended into the mouth lielow. Through the posterior naves the naso-pharynx is seen. The prominence of the posterior margin of the Eustacliian oritice, and the lymphoid nodules constituting the jiharyngeal tonsil, should be noted. The palatine arches, the tonsils, and an uiuisually wide pharyngeal isthmus, are also seen. pliar}-nx : the isthmus of the fauces leading into the moutli from the oral pharynx ; the orifice of the larynx on the anterior wall of the laryngeal portion of the cavity ; and finally, the o^tening of the cesopluigus at its lower end. Naso-pharynx(Figs.661 and G62).—Althougli described as a part of the pharynx, this portion of the cavity should be regarded as an annex to the respiratory portion of the nasal cavities rather than as a subdivision of the pharynx proper, for, lioth anatomically and functionally, it is all but com]iletely marked off' from the digestive tube. It differs Irom the rest of the pharynx in tliat its cavity remains, under all conditions, a distinct o])en cliaml)er inca.palile of obliteration, owing to the fact that all its walls, with the single exception of the Hoor, are practically imnioval »le.