623 THE DISTKTKUTION OF THE SPINAL NERVES. Intercosto-humeral T. 2. receives normally the whole contrilmtion of the fii'st thoracic nerve) the lesser internal cutaneous, the inner branch of tlie internal cutaneous, and the dorsal brancli of the ulnar nerve supply the dorsal asjiect of the linil) on its postaxial border. These nerves are in serial homology with the intercosto-humeral and lateral trunks of intercostal nerves. In the case of the lumbo-sacral plexus similarly, in which the third saci'al nerve does not divide into ventral and dorsal trunks, the small sciatic and tiliial nerves containing the contrilmtion from tlie third sacral nerves innervate, by means of tlic gluteal and external femoral brandies of the former and the tibial communi- cating In'anch of the latter, the dorsal surface of the hmh along the postaxial border, in series with the perforating cutaneous nerve and the pei'ineal l.)ranch of the fourtli sacral. These ap])arent anomalies appear to indicate that, instead of dividing into its proper dorsal and ventral trunks, the entire contribution of the spinal nerve concerned is in these instances carried undivided along the postaxial border of the limli in association with the ventral trunks, and that the dorsal subdivisions are thrown off successively as the plexus cords ajiproach the 2ierii3hery. Indeed, in the case of the small sciatic nerve, Eisler has shown tliat, when the peroneal and tibial nerves are separated at their origin, its gluteal and external femoral branches arise from and are connected with the former, and the perineal and internal femoral branches with the latter trunk. The ])istribution of the Spinal Nerves to the Muscles and Skin OF THE Limbs. By dissection, experiment, and clinical observation, it is conclusively proved that as a rule each nerve of distribution io the limb, whether to muscle or skin, is made up of fibres derived from more than one spinal nerve ; and, further, that in cutaneous distribution a considerable overlapping occurs in the course of the several jieripheral nerves. Moreover, tlie arrangement of the distribution of the nerves to skin and to muscles is not identical. In the case of the skin of the limbs, by the covering of the limb being drawn on to it from adjacent parts in the process of growth, cutaneous nerves are engaged, which are derived from sources not represented in the muscular innervation of tlie limbs. Again, among the muscles, some have undergone fusion, others have become rudimentarj', and others again have altered their position in the limb. Bearing these qualifications in mind, it is possible to formulate a definite plan for the innervation of the skin and muscles of the upper and lower limb. The accompanying tables give an analysis of the distribution of tlie spinal nerves to tlie skin and muscles of the upper and lower limb respectivelv :— I. Upper Limb. A. Cutaneous Nerves. - 1. Dorsal (Posterior) Surface. Regions. Upper part {preaxial) Scapular' Lower part {iJQstaxiaJ) f Upper part ■i-> ij. -J (preaxial) Deltoid ^ ' Lower part V {postaxial) Outer side {inea'jial) Upper arm Inner side (postaxial) Nerves. Spinal Origins. Preaxial Postaxial Nerves. Nerves. Posterior primary division, cervical ..... Cervical plexus, acromial Posterior primary divisions, thoracic ..... Intercostal nerves, lateral Ijranches Cervical plexus, acromial Circumflex ..... Intercostal nerves, lateral branches ..... Circumflex ..... Musculo-spiral, upper external branch ..... Musculo-spiral, internal Ijrauch . Lesser internal cutaneous C. 4. 5. 6. C. 3. 4. T. 1.-7. T. 2. 3. 4. C. 3. 4. C. 5. 6. C. 5. 6. T. 2. 3. C. (5). 6. ■ C. 8. T. 1.