LAEYNGEAL MUSCLES. 921 inferior cornua, draw the thyroid cartilage forwards, thereby increasing the distance between the angle of the thyroid cartilage and the vocal processes of tlic arytenoid car- tilages. When the crico-thyroid muscles cease to contract, the relaxation of the cords is brought about by the elasticity of tiie ligaments. The thyro arytenoid muscles must be regarded as antagonistic to the crico-thyroid muscles. Wiien they contract they approxi- mate the angle of the thyroid cartilage to the arytenoid cartilages, and still further relax the true vocal cords ; and when they cease to act the elasticity of the ligaments of the larynx again restore the state of equilibrium. The ary-vocales muscles, by the insertion of their fibres into the true vocal cords, may tighten portions of these cords, whilst they relax at the same time the parts behind. The iviclth of the rima glottidis is regulated by tlie arytenoideus muscle, which draws together the two arytenoid cartilages, and this may be done so effectually that the inner surfaces of these cartilages come into contact; the glottis respiratoria is thus com- pletely closed. The lateral and posterior crico-arytenoid muscles also modify the width of the rima glottidis. When they act together they assist the arytenoideus muscle in closing tlie glottis, but when they act independently they are antagonistic muscles. Thus tlie posterior crico-arytenoid muscles, by drawing the muscular processes of the ai'ytenoid cartilages outwards and backwards, swing the processus vocales and the vocal cords out- wards, and thereby open the rima. The lateral crico-arytenoid muscles act in exactly the opposite manner. By drawing the muscular processes of tlie arytenoid cartilages forwards and inwards, they ajiproximate the pi'ocessus vocales and close the rima. Closure of the Larynx during Deglutition.—But the muscles of the larynx have another function to perform besides vocalisation and regulating the amount of air passing to and fro through the glottis. During deglutition it is requisite that the com- munication between the pharynx and larynx should be closed, so as to prevent the fluid or solid parts of the food entering the respiratory passages. Formei-ly it was believed that this was effected by the folding back of the epiglottis ; that in fact the epiglottis, dur- ing the passage of the food, is ap])lied like a lid over the entrance into the vestibule of the larynx. The observations of Professor Anderson Stuart would seem to indicate that this view is incorrect. According to Professor Stuart it is not the anterior wall of the vestibule which moves; the epiglottis stands erect, whilst the posterior wall formed by the arytenoids is carried forwards. In the jjrocess of closing the laryngeal entrance the aryte- noid cartilages are closely approximated, glide forwards, and are then inclined towards the epiglottis. Tlie result of this is that the laryngeal opening is converted into a T-shaped fissure. The mesial limb of the T is formed by the interval between the closely-applied arytenoid cartilages, whilst the cross limb, which lies in front, is bounded anteriorly by tlie epiglottis and behind by the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. The apices of the arytenoid cartilages, with the cartilages of Santorini, are pressed against the cushion of the epiglottis, whilst the lateral margins of the epiglottis are pulled backwards so as to make the trans- verse limb of the fissure distinctly concave in a backward direction. The muscles chiefly concerned in producing these movements are the external thyro-arytenoid and the trans- verse arytenoid muscles. These foi'm a true sphincter vestibuli. The thyro-ary-epiglotti- dean muscles also come into play. They pull upon the epiglottis so as to produce tight application of its cushion to the arytenoid cartilages and the cartilages of Santorini, and they also curve its margins backwards so as to increase its posterior concavity. Vessels and Nerves of the Larynx.—Two branches of the vagus nerve, viz. the superior iaryngeal and the recuri-eiit laryngeal nerves, supply the larynx. The superior laryngeal divides into the internal and external laryngeal liranches. The external laryngeal nerve supplies the frieo-thyi'oid niuscle ; whilst the internal laryngeal nerve enters the larynx )iy piercing the lateral part of tlie tliyro-liyoid membrane to sujjply the laryngeal mucous iiieiubrane. The re- 'Current laryngeal nerve reaches the larynx from helo\\-, and suj^plies all the intrinsic laryngeal juuscles with tlie fXce])tion of the ci'ico-thyroid. The superior laryngeal artery, a branch of the .superior thyroid, accompanies the internal laryngeal nerve ; whilst the inferior laryngeal artery, which springs from the inferior thyroid, ;accoini)anies the recurrent laryngeal nerve. These two vessels ramify in the laryngeal wall and .sujiply tile mucous nienibrane, the glands, and muscles. Growth-Alterations, and Sexual Differences in the Larynx.—A considerable amount of variation may be noticed in the size of the larynx in different individuals. This is quite independent of stature, and explains to a great extent the difference in the pitch of the voice which is observable in different persons. But quite apart from these individual variations, there is a marked sexual difference in the size of the larynx. The male larynx is not only absolutely but also relatively larger than the female larynx. This is noticeable in all its diameters, but more particularly in the antero-jjosterior diameter,