THE STERNUM. 93 with of spatula-shape, bifid, circular, pierced in the centre, or twisted and deflected to one or other side, or turned forward. The sternum as a whole is broadest above where the first rib cartilages are attached. It becomes narrow opposite the second rib cartilages, but again expands until the level of the fifth rib cartilage is reached, below which it is rapidly reduced in width and ends below in the pointed xiphoid cartilage. Its position in the body is oblique from above downwards and forwards; its axis, if prolonged upwards, would touch the column opposite the third or fourth cervical vertebra. Though liable to changes in position by the rising and falling of the chest-wall, its upper extremity corresponds to the level of the lower border of the second dorsal vertelDra, wTulst the lower end of the xiphoid cartilage usually falls in line with the disc between the tenth and eleventh dorsal vertebra;. In women the sterniini is usually narrower and shorter than in men, and its iDOsition less oblique. Architecture.—It consists of large-celled spongy bone, which is highly vascular, and is con- tained between two layers of thin compact tissue. Ossification. — The cartilaginous sternum, developed from the fusion mesially of two cartilaginous bands uniting the anterior extremities of the cartilages of the first eight ribs, begins to ossify about the sixth month of foetal life. About this time a single ceirtre appears in the manu- brium ; at birth this is well developed. Secondary epiphyses have been decsribed in connexion with the clavicular facets; these do not unite with the rest of the manubrium till adult life is reached. The body formed by the fusion of four segments is ossified from independent cen- tres, either single or double, for each segment. These appear— the highest as early as the sixth month of intra-uterine life — in some cases even before the manubrium has begun to ossify (Lambertz), the lowest toward the end of full term. The common arrangement met with at birth is a single centre for the first, and double centres for each of the succeeding segments. Union between these segments occurs rather irregularly, and is liable to much variation. The fourth unites -with the third segment in early childhood, the third with the second about puberty, whilst the fusion of the second with the first segment may not be complete till the twentieth or twenty-fifth year. The xiphi-sternum usually ossifies fi-om a single centre, which may appear as early as the third year, though often very much later. The xiphi-sternum usually unites with the body about forty or fifty, and in exceptional cases osseous union between the body and manubrium may occur in advanced life. Variations.—Tlie sternum is liable to considerable individual variations affecting its length and direction. Tlie majority of bones are asymmetrical, displaying irregularities in the levels of the clavicular facets. The higher costal facets may be closer together on one, usually the riglit side, than the other, wliilst the pre-mesosternal joint is often oblique, sloping somewhat to the right. According to Birmingham, these are the result of the strain thrown on the shoulder by pressure either directly applied or through the pull of a weight carried in the hand. Sometimes the sternum articulates with eight rib cartilages. This may happen on one or both sides, but when unilateral, much more frequently on the right side—a condition by some associated with right-handedness. It is, however, more probably a persistence of the primitive condition of the cartilaginous sternum, in which each half is connected with the anterior At birth. Fig. 71. At 3 years. -Ossification of the Sternum. Ill this figure the second as well as the third segment of the body possesses two centres. 1. Appears about 5th or 6th mouth. 2. Appear about 7th month; unite from 20 to 25. 3. Appear about 8th or 9th month ; III. segment unites witli II. about puberty ; IV. segment unites with III. in early childhood. 4. Appears about 3rd year or later.