MORPHOLOGY OF THE SKULL. 177 the assumption that the mammalian skull is of two-fold origin— that, in fact, it is composed of two envelojjes, an outer and an inner, primarily distinct, but which in the process of evolution have become intimately fused together. The inner, called the primordial skull, is that which has just been described, and consists of the chondro- cranium and the branchial skeleton. The outer, which is of dermic origin, includes the bones of tiie cranial vault and face which are developed in membrane. This secondary skull, whicli first appears in higher fishes as ossified dermal plates overlying the primary skull, acquires a great importance in the mammalia, as owing to the expansion of the brain and the pi'ogressive reduction of the chondro-cranium, these dermal bones become engrafted on and incorporated with the primordial skull, and act as covering bones to the cavities of the cranium and face ; for it may be well to point out that these dermal or membrane bones are not necessarily external in position, as over the cranial vault, but also develop in the tissues underlying the mucous membrane of the cavities of the face. Advantage is taken of this difference in the mode of development of the bones of the skull to classify them according to their origin into cartilage or primordial bones, and membrane or secondary bones. These differences in the growth of the bone must not be too much insisted on in determining the homologies of the bones of the skull, as it is now generally recognised that all bone is of membranous origin, and that whilst in some cases cartilage may become calcified, it never undergoes conversion into true bone, but is replaced by ossific deposit derived from a membranous source. In the subsequent growth of the skull parts of the cartilaginous cranium persist as the septal and alar cartilages of the nose, whilst for a considerable period the basisphenoid and basioccipital are still united by cartilage. Till two years after birth there are membranous intervals between the edges and angles of the bones of the cranial vault. These are termed the fontanelles. Normally they are six in immber, and correspond in the adult to the position of the bregma and lambda in the middle line and the pterion and asterion on either side. The anterior or bregmatic fontanelle is diamond-shaped, and corresponds to the converging angles of the l^arietals and two halves of the frontal bone. The posterior fontanelle is triangular in form, and lies between the two parietals and the sununit of the occipital squama. The antero-lateral fontanelle lies between the contiguous margins of the frontal, parietal, squamous temporal, and great wing of the sphenoid, whilst the postero lateral fontanelle is situated between the adjacent borders of the parietal, occipital, and mastoid jjortion of the temporal. Wliilst in many instances the primordial and secondary bones remain distinct in the fully-developed condition, they sometimes fuse to form complex bones, such as the temporal and sphenoid (see pp. 116 and 123). Various theories have been advanced to account for the mode of formation of the skull. The earliest of these was called the vertebrate theory, which assumed that the cranium was built up of a series of modified vertebrje, the centra of which corresponded to the basicranial axis, whilst the neural arclies were represented by the covering bones of the cranium. In view of the more recent researches regarding the composite origin of the skull above referred to, this theory was necessarily abandoned. It gave way to the suggestion of Gegenbauer that the primordial cranium has arisen by the fusion of several segments equivalent to vertebrse, the number of which he determined by noting the metameric arrangement of the cranial nerves, of which he concluded there were nine paii'S, arranged much like spinal nerves, both as to their origin and distribution. The olfactory and optic nerves, though frequently referred to as cranial nerves, are excluded, since from the nature of their development they are to be regarded as metamorphosed parts of the brain itself. Gegenbauer therefore assumed that that portion of the cranial base which is traversed by the nine pairs of segmentally arranged cranial nerves must be formed by the fusion of nine vertebral segments ; and as the region where the nerves escape corresponds to the part of the chondi-o-cranium traversed by the notochord, he calls it tKe vertebral portion of the cranial base, in contradistinction to the trabecular or non-vertebral part which lies in front. This latter he regards as a new formation adapted to receive the greatly-developed brain and afford protection to the organs of sight and smell. As has been pointed out by Hertwig, there is an essential difference between the development of the axial cartilaginous skeleton of the trunk and head. The former becomes segmented into distinct vertebrse alternating with intervertebral ligaments; whilst the latter, in order to attain the rigidity necessary in this part of the skeleton, is never so divided. It follows from this that the original segmentation of the head is only expressed in tlu-ee ways, viz. in the appearance of several primitive segments (myotomes), in the arrangement of the cranial nerves, and in the fundament of the visceral skeleton (viscera^ 12