858 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. omentum; contiuuing its upward course, it lies 1 )ehiud the common Ijile-duct and hepatic artery, and in front of the foramen of Winslow; it ultimately reaches the right end of the transverse fissure of the liver, where it ends by dividing into a short and wide right and a longer and narrower left branch. Just before its termination it enlarges, forming the sinus of the portal vein. The right branch generally receives the cystic vein and then enters the right lobe of the liver, in wliicli it breaks up into numerous branches which terminate in the portal capillaries round the periphery and in the substance of the liver lobules. The left branch runs from right to left along the transverse fissure, giving off branches to the Spigelian and quadrate lobes; it crosses the longitudinal fissure, and ends in a similar manner to the right branch, but in the substance of the left lobe of the liver. As it crosses the Lmgitudinal fissure, the left branch of the portal vein is joined in front l)y the round ligament of the liver, a fibrous cord which is the remains of the left umbilical vein of the foetus; and, somewhat to the right of the attachment of the round ligament anteriorly, a fibrous cord springs from it posteriorly and connects it with the upper part of the inferior vena cava; this cord is the remains of the ductus venosus, a blood-vessel of the foetus, through which Ijlood coming from tlie placenta, ))y the umbilical vein, passed into the inferior vena cava without going through the liver. The portal vein is accompanied by numerous lymphatic vessels, and it is siirrounded in the gastro - hepatic omentum by filaments of the hepatic plexus of nerves. Tributaries.—Soon after its formation the portal vein receives the coronary and pyloric veinss, and the cystic vein opens into its right branch. The coronary vein (v. coronaria ventriculi) commences in the gastro-hepatic omentum by the union of tributaries from both surfaces of the stomach. It runs to the left between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum, and along the lesser curvature of the stomach, with the corresponding artery, to the oisophagus, where it receives oesophageal tributaries. It then turns backwards in the left pancreatico-gastric fold, and reaches the posterior wall of the abdomen, where it again changes its direction to run from left to right, behind the lesser sac of the peritoneum, to the right pancreatico-gastric fold, at the root of wliich it opens into the portal vein. The pyloric vein (v. pylorica) is a .small vessel which is formed by the union of tributaries from the upper parts of both surfaces of the stomach. It runs from left to right along the right portion of the lesser curvature, between the laj'ers of the gastro- hepatic omentum, and terminates in the portal vein, after that vessel has entered the gastro-hepatic omentum. The cystic vein (v. cystica) is formed V)y the union of tributaries which accompany the brandies of the cystic artery on the Tipper and lower surfaces of the gall-bladder; it ascends along the cystic dvict, and as a rule terminates in the riglit branch of the portal vein. The Mesenteric and Splenic Veins. The superior mesenteric vein (v. mesenterica superior) commences in the right iliac fossa in connection with the lower part of the ileum. It ascends along the right side of the superior mesenteric artery in the root of the mesentery, forming a curve with the convexity to the left. As it ascends it passes in front of the right ureter, the lower part of the inferior vena cava, the third yjart of the duodenum, and the lower part of the head of the pancreas; and, after passing behind the root of the transverse mesocolon, it terminates behind the neck of the ptuicreas by uniting with the splenic vein to form the ])ortal vein. Its tributaries correspond with the brandies of tlie superior mesenteric arteiy. It is formed by the union of the ileo-c;ecal and appendicular veins. lu front and towards the left side the triliutai'ies (vv. intestinales) from between the folds of the mesentery enter it; the riglit colic and ileo-colic veins enter its right side ; the middle colic vein joins it in front at the lower border of the head of the pancreas, and close to its termination it receives the right gastro-epiploic and the j)ancreatieo-duodenal veins. The right gastro-epiploic vein (v. gastroe-piploica dextra) runs from left to riglit along the loMX'r Ijorder of the stomadi, and lietween the two anterior layers of the great omentum. It receives tributaries from liotli surfaces of the stomadi, and near the pylorus turns backwards in