250 THE ARTICULATIONS OR JOINTS. articulating bones together, but to a large extent they form the peripheral boundary of the joint cavity, although not equally developed in all positions. Thus every diarthrodial joint possesses a fibrous or ligamentous envelope or capsule which is attached to the adjacent ends of the articulating bones. For special purposes, particular parts of the capsule may undergo enlargement and thickening, and so constitute strong ligamentous bands, although still forming con- tinuous constituents of the capsule. Within the capsule a series of intracapsular structures are present. Thus the capsule itself is always lined by a synovial membrane, which is continued from the inner surface of the capsule to the surface of the intracapsular portion of each articulating bone. The part of the bone included within the capsule consists of a " non-articular" portion covered by synovial membrane, and an " articular " portion covered by encrusting hyaline cartilage. The latter provides the surface which comes into apposition with the corresponding area of another bone. In its general disposition the synovial membrane may be likened to a cylindrical tube open at each end. Certain diarthroses present additional intracapsular structures which may be distinguished as interarticular ligaments and interarticular fibro-cartilages. Interarticular ligaments extend between and are attached to non-articular areas of the intracapsular portions of the articulating bones. They usually occupy the long axis of the joint, and occasionally they widen sufficiently to form partitions which divide the joint-cavity into two compartments, e.g. the costo-central, and certain of the chondro-sternal joints. Interarticular fibro-cartilages or menisci (Fig. 197) are more or less complete partitions situated between and separating opposing articular surfaces, and when complete they divide the joint cavity into two distinct compartments. By its periphery, a meniscus is rather to be associated with the joint capsule than with the articu- lating bones, although its attachments may extend to non-articular areas on the latter. Both interarticular ligaments and menisci have their free surfaces covered by synovial membrane. Adipose tissue forming pads of varying size is usually found in certain localities within the joint, between the synovial membrane and the surfaces which it covers. These pads are soft and pliable, and act as packing material, filling up gaps or intervals in the joint. During movement they adapt themselves to Fig. 197.—Diagram of a Diauthrodial Joint the changing conditions of the articulation. WITH AN Interarticular Meniscus divid- In addition to merely binding together two iNG the Joint-Cavity into two Com- more articulating bones, ligaments perform partments. . , , r ° ,• . ° .-^ very important functions m connexion with the different movements taking place at a joint. They do not appreciably lengthen under strains, and thus ligaments may act as inhibitory structures, and by becom- ing tense may restrain or check movement in certain directions. Synovial membranes, in the form of closed sacs termed synovial bursae, are frequently found in other situations besides the interior of joints. Such bursaj are developed for the purijose ol reducing the friction, (a) Ijetween the integument and certain prominent subcutaneous bony pro- jections, as, for instance, the point of the elbow, or the front surface of the patella (subcutaneous synovial bursaj); (6) between a tendon and some surface, bony or cartilaginous, over wliicli it plays (subtendinous synovial bursaj); (c) between a tendon or a group of tendons and the walls of osteo-fascial tunnels, in which they play (thecal synovial bursee). Subtendinous synovial bursas are often placed in the neighbourhood of joints, and in such cases it not infrequently happens that there is a direct continuity between the bursa and the synovial membrane which lines the cavity of the joint through an aperture in the joint-capsule. hiembrane Joint cavity Joint capsule