680 THE ORGANS OF SENSE. Zone of oval nuclei Zone of round nuclei Basal cells Kiiitlieliuni Fig. 491.—Section thhougu the Olkactouy Mucous Membh.vnk. freely auastomosiug venous plexus, which, iu some parts, e.g. over the inferior turbinated bones, forms a kind of cavernous tissue (plexus cavernosus concharum). Many acinous glands, secreting a watery fluid, are embedded in it, and are especially large and numerous in the posterior half of the nasal fossaj, while in children it contains a con- siderable amount of adenoid tissue. In the olfactory region the mucous membrane is yellowish in colour and more delicate, and is covered by non-ciKated colum- nar epithelium (Figs. 491, 492). Embedded in it are numerous tubular and often branched glands, the glands of Bowman (gl. olfactoriai); these are lined by polygonal cells and open by fine ducts on its free surface. The epithelium covering the olfactory region consists of: (1) supporting cells, (2) olfactory cells, and (3) basal cells. 1. Supporting Cells. — The outer part of these cells is columnar in shape and contains fine granules of yellow pigment, whilst the deeper portion is at- tenuated and frequently branched. They contain elliptical or oval nuclei, which are situated at the deep end of the columnar part of the cell and form what is termed the zone of oval nuclei. 2. Olfactory CeDs.— They are spindle-shaped and lie between the deeper, attenuated parts of the supporting cells; their nuclei are circular and form the zone oi' round nuclei. Each cell gives off a peripheral and a central process, the former of which is rod-like and ends on a level with the free extremities of the supporting cells, where it is surmounted by a pencil of short filaments, termed the olfactory hairs. A fine membrane, the membrana limitans externa, covers in many animals the free surface of the epithelium, and is pierced l)y the olfactory hairs and by the ducts of Bowman's glands. The central process is a A ery delicate varicose filament, which passes inwards Olfactoiy linirs Supporting _—-r cells Centr: processes of_ olfactory _ Olfactory hairs Body of cell -Nuclcu!) Central process Fig. 492 A. Frog \ B. Human j -Olfactouy .\nd SurroKTiNG Cells. , C. Human (v. Brunn) M. Soliultze.