180 OSTEOLOGY. Nutrient Foramina.—Tlie foiamin.i for the larger nutiiout vessels, of wliicli there may lie one or two ilirerti-d outwards, are usually found aboTit. the luiddle of the ])ostei-ior horder, or it may lie opening into the floor of the groove for the suhclavius muscle. Architecture.—The shaft consists of an outer layer of compact hone, thickest towards the centre, but gradually thinning towards the extremities, the investing envelojie of which consists merely of a thin shell. AVithin the shaft the cancellous tissue dis]>lays a longitudinal striation, wdiicli internally assumes a more cellular api)earance. At the acromial end the general arrange- ment of the fibres resembles the appearance of the sides of a Gothic arch. Variations.—The clavicles of women are more slender, less curved, and shoi'ter than those of men. In the latter the l)one is so inclined that its outer end lies slightly higher or on the same level with the sternal end. In women the bone usually sh^jjes a little downward and outwarrl. The more pronounced curves of some bones are as.sociate(l with a more powerful development of the ])ectoral and deltoid muscles, a circumstance which also affords an ex])lanation of the ditfer- ences usually seen between the right and left Ixmes, the habitual use of the right ui)per limb reacting on the foi-m of the bone of that side. Ossification.—Phylogenetically of dermic origin, the clavicle in man is remarkable in commencing to ossify before sternal ejiiphysis ossifies aljovit 20tli year ; luses aljout 2'itli year Primary centre appears aliout fttli or Btli niimili of fietal life any other bone in the body ; this occurs as early as the fiftli or sixth week of foetal life. The primitive centre from whieh the shaft and outer extremity are developed appears prior to the forma- tion of any cartilaginous matrix ; and it is not till a hiter stage that cartilage plays a part in the development of the bone by assisting in the growth of its extremities. A secondary centre or epiphysis appears at the sternal end about tlie age of twenty or later, and fusion rapidly occurring between it and the shaft, ossification is couqjleted at the age of twenty-five or thereabouts. Vic. 124.—OssnicATioN of the Clavicle. The Scapula. The scapula (scapula), shoulder blade or blade bone, is of triangular shape and flattened form. It has two surfaces, ventral and dorsal. From the latter there springs a triangular process called the spine, which ends externally in the acromion ; whilst from its superior border there arises a beak - like projection called the coracoid process. The body of the bone, which is thin and translucent, except along its margins and where the spine springs from it, has three borders and three angles. Of these borders the internal or vertebral (margo vertebrahs) is the longest ; it stretches from the superior angle above to the inferior angle below. Of curved or somewhat irregular outline, it affords a narrow surface for the insertion of the levator anguli scapulfe, rhomboideus minor, and rhomboideus major muscles. The superior horder (margo superior), which is thin and sharp, is the shortest of the three. It runs from the superior angle towards the root of the coracoid process, before reaching which, however, it is interrupted by the suprascapular notch (in- cisura scapuke), which lies immediately to the inner side of the base of that process. This notch, which is converted into a foramen by a ligament, or occasionally by a spicule of bone, transmits the suprascapular nerve. Attached to the superior border, close to the notch, is the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid. The external or axillary horder (margo axillaris), so called from its relation to the hollow of the armpit (axilla), is much stouter than either of the others; it extends from the external angle above to the inferior angle below. The upper inch or so of this l)order, which lies immediately belovv^ the glenoid articular surface, is rough and tubercular (tuberositas infraglenoidalis), and affords attachment to the long head of the triceps. Below this there is usually a groove which marks the position of the dorsal artery of the scapula. The superior angle (angulus medialis) is sharp and more or less rectangular; the inferior angle (angulus inferior) is blunter and more acute; whilst the external angle (angulus lateralis) corresponds to that part of the bone which is sometimes called the head, and which supports the glenoid surface and tlie coracoid prceoss.