512 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. connects them together. The upper surface of the corpus callosum can be displayed by gently drawing asunder the contiguous mesial surfaces of the cerebral hemispheres. The great longitudinal fissure is occupied ])y a mesial fold of dura mater, termed the falx cerebri, which partially subdivides the part of the cranial cavity allotted to the cerebrum into a right and left chamber. External Configuration of each Cerebral Hemisphere.—Each cerebral hemi- sphere presents an external, an internal, and an inferior surface. The external surface is convex and is adapted accurately to the deep surface of the cranial vault. The internal or mesial surface is flat and perpendicular, and bounds the great longitudinal fissure. lu great part it is in contact with the falx cerebri; and where that partition is deficient, it is applied to the corresponding portion of the internal surface of the opposite hemisphere. The inferior surface is irregular and is adapted to the cranial fioor, where it forms the anterior and middle cranial lossai, and, behind these, to the upper surface of the tentorium cerebelli. Traversing this surface in a transverse direction, nearer the anterior end of the hemisphere than the posterior end, is the stem of the Sylvian fissure. This deep cleft divides the inferior surface into an anterior or orbital area, which rests on the orbital plate of the frontal bone, and is consequently concave from side to side, and a more extensive posterior or tentorial area, which lies on the floor of the lateral part of the middle cranial fossa and upon the upper surface of the tentorium cerebelli. This surface is arched from before backwards, and looks inwards as well as downwards. In its hinder two-thirds it lies above the cerebellum, from which it is separated by the tentorium cerebelli. The borders which intervene between these surfaces are the supero-mesial, the superciliary, the infero-lateral, and the internal occipital. The supero-mesial horder, convex from before backwards, intervenes between the convex external surface and the fiat internal surface of the hemisphere. The superciliary horder is highly arched and separates the orbital surface from the external surface. The infero-lateral horder marks off the tentorial surface from the external surface. The internal occipital horder can only be seen in cases where the brain has been hardened in situ and faithfully retains the natural form. It extends from the posterior end of the hemisphere towards the hinder extremity of the corpus callosum, and inter- venes between the mesial and tentorial surfaces. It is the border which lies along the straight blood sinus, and it therefore occupies the angle which is formed by the attachment of the posterior part of the falx cerebri to the upper surface of the tentorium cerebelli. The most projecting part of the anteiuor end of the cerebral hemisphere is called the frontal pole, whilst the most projecting part of the hinder end is termed the occipital pole. On the under surface of the hemisphere the prominent point of cerebral substance which extends forwards below the Sylvian fissure receives the name of the temporal pole. In a well-hardened brain a broad groove is usually present on the inner and lower aspect of the occipital pole of the right hemisphere. This corresponds to the commencement of the right lateral venous sinus. A less distinct groove on the occipital pole of the left hemisphere frequently indicates the commencement of the left lateral sinus. On the tentorial surface, a short distance behind the temporal pole, a well-marked depression is always visible. This corre- sponds to the higli elevation on the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone over the superior semicircular canal. Cerebral Gyri and Sulci.—The surface of the cerebral hemispheres are rendered highly irregular by the presence of convolutions or gyri, separated from each other by intervening furrows of very varying depth, termed sulci or fissures. The surface pattern which is presented by these gyri and sulci is, in its general features, the same in all normal human brains; but when the comparison is pushed into minute detail many differences become manifest, not only in the brains of different indi- viduals, but also in the two cerebral hemispheres of the same individual. There are two varieties of furrows, viz. complete and incomplete. The complete fissures are few in number in the adult brain, and are formed by inwardly-directed infoldings involving the entire thickness of the cerebral wall. They consequently show in the interior of the cerebral cavity or lateral ventricle in the form of internal