PAKIETO-OCCIPITAL AND COLLATERAL FISSURES. 517 Wlien the fissure of Rolando is widely oiDened up, so tliat its bottom and its opposed sides may be fully inspected, it will be seen that, in tlie neighbourhood of the superior genu, the two bound- ing gyri are dovetailed into each other by a number of interlocking gyri, which do not appear on the surface. Further, two of these, placed on opposite sides of the fissure, are frec[uently joined across the bottom of the sulcus in the form of a sunken bridge of connexion, which constitutes what is termed a deep annectant gyrus. The continuity of the fissure is thus, to some extent, interrupted. This condition is rendered interesting when considered in connexion with the de-\'elo})ment of the sulcus. The deep interlocking gyri indicate a great exuberance of cortical growth in this situation in the early stages of the development of the fissure ; and the presence of the deep annectant gyrus is explained by the fact, that the fissure of Rolando generally develops in two pieces, which run into each other to form the continuous sulcus of the adult, viz. a part cor- responding to the lower two-thirds, and an upper part, which represents the upper third and which appears at a slightly later date. In certain very rare cases the fissure of Rolando is found to remain double throughout life, through a failure of its two pieces to unite. In such cases the deep annectant gyrus, which is frequently seen at the bottom of the furrow, remains on the surface. Heschl, who examined 2174 cerebral hemispheres, only found this anomaly six times; Eberstaller met with it twice in 200 brains. Parieto - occipital Fissure. — A small part of this fissure appears ou the outer face of the cerebral hemi- sphere. For the most part it is situ- ated on the internal surface. It is customary, therefore, to describe an external parieto-occipital and an in- ternal parieto-occipital fissure. It must be clearly understood, however, that they are directly continuous with each other round the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere. The parieto- occipital fissure intervenes between the parietal and occipital lobes. The external parieto - occipital fissure cuts the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere in a transverse direction at a distance of from one and a half to two inches in front of the occipital pole. It is, as a rule, not more than about a half an inch long, and it is brought to an abrupt termina- tion by an arching convolution, which winds round its extremity and receives the name of arcus parieto-occipitalis. The internal parieto-occipital fissure is carried downwards on the inner surface of the hemisphere in a nearly vertical direction as a conspicuous and deep cleft. A short distance behind the hinder end of the corpus callosum its lower end runs into the calcarine fissure. The parieto-occipital fissure is developed, as a rule, after the manner of a complete fissure. In the fcctal brain it forms a very evident infolding of the cerebral wall. In the adult brain, how- ever, it does not form any eminence on the inner wall of the ventricle, because it does not extend downwards as far as the cavity. The wall of the ventricle diuing the growth of the hemisphere has thickened to such an extent that the part corresponding to the fissure has become solid. Collateral Fissure (fissura coUateralis).—The collateral sulcus is a strongly- marked fissure on the tentorial face of the cerebral hemisphere. It begins near the occipital pole and extends forwards towards the temporal pole. In its posterior part it is j)laced below, and parallel to, the calcarine fissure, whilst in front it is separated from the hippocampal or dentate fissure by the hippocampal gyrus, which is the innermost convolution on the tentorial surface of the hemisphere. In front of the anterior end of the collateral fissure a shallow sulcus turns round the anterior end of the temporal lobe, so as to intervene between the temporal pole and the uncinate or hook-like extremity of the hippocampal convolution. This is the incisura temporalis, and it may be regarded as a forward prolongation r.2 Fi(i. 385.—Left Cerebral Hemisphere, from a foetus in the early part of the seventh mouth of development. p.c.s. Sulcus praiceutralis superior. p.c.i. Sulcus prsecentralis infei'ior. 1^ Lower part of Rohiiidio fissure. r'. Upjjer part of Rolandic fissure. p^ Inferior postcentral sulcus 1 p-'. Ramus horizontalis j-Iutraparietal fissure. p"*. Ramus occipitalis J e.p. External perpendicular fissure. t^ Parallel sulcus. S. Sylvian fossa. F.P. Frouto-parietal wall. F. Frontal wall. 0. Orbital wall.