595 THOEACIC NEKVES. skin of the front of the chest, over an area corresponding to the inner or anterior part of the intercostal space to which it be- longs. Branches. — Each intercostal" nerve supplies, in addition to the anterior ter- minal cutaneous branches, muscular h'anclies to the inter- costal muscles and a lateral trunk (r. cut- aneus lateralis), which, piercing the intercostal muscles and the ser- ratus 'magnus, divides into anterior and posterior branches for the innervation of the skin over the side of the chest. Each area of skin thus innervated is continuous anteriorly with the area inner- vated by the anterior terminal branches of the same nerves, and posteriorly with the areas supplied by their posterior primary divi- sions. The upper six inter- costal nerves supply the muscles of the first six intercostal spaces and the triangularis sterni (3,4, 5, 6). The second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves supply the skin of the front of the chest: the second, opposite the man ubrio-sternal joint; the sixth, opposite the base of the xiphoid car- tilage. Their lateral branches supply the skin of the side of the chest, the second (in- tercosto-humei'al) and the third in part being drawn out on to the arm. The fourth supplies the nipple (Fig. 438). C 5.6 Fig. 438.- -The Distribution op CuTANEons Nekves on the Front of THE Trunk. On one side the distribution of the several nerves is represented, the letters indicating their nomenclature. G.A, Great auricular nerve ; S.C, Superficial cervical nerve ; S.Cl, Supra- clavicular nerves ; AcR, Acromial; Cl, Clavicular ; St, Sternal ; T.2-12, Lateral and anterior branches of thoracic nerves ; I.H, Ilio-hypogastric nerve ; I.I, Ilio-inguiaal nerve ; CiRC, Cutaneous branch of circumflex nerve ; L.I.C, Lesser internal cutaneous nerve ; I.H, Intercosto-humeral ; I.C, Internal cutaneous ; M.S, Cutaneous branch of musculo-spiral nerve ; E.C,External cutaneous nerves ; G.C, Genito-crural nerve ; M.C^ Middle cutaneous nerves ; I.C\ Branch of internal cutaneous nerve ; P, Branches of pudic nerve ; S.Sc, Branches of small sciatic nerve. On the other side a scliematic representation is given of the areas supplied by the above nerves, the numerals indicating the spinal origin of the branches- of distribution to each area.