686 THE OEGANS OF SENSE. Cornea Canal of Sclilemni. Circulus arteriosus major nctival vessels Recurrent artery " cliorioirl consists of a series of fine non-vascular lamellae, each containing a delicate network of elastic fibres, amongst wliich are stellate, pigmented cells, together with amoeboid cells. The spaces between the laminse are lined with endothelium, and together form the spatium perichorioideale, already referred to (p. 683). The proper tissue of the chorioid consists of blood-vessels and numerous pigmented cells, supported by connective tissue and elastic fibres, together with some smooth muscular fibres. Its outer part contains the larger blood-vessels and is named the lamina vasculosa, while its inner portion is composed of a network of fine capillaries, and is termed the lamina choriocapillaris; these two laminse are joined by a thin inter- mediate stratum. The arteries of the chorioid are derived from the short posterior ciliary vessels, which pierce the sclera around the optic entrance and form a wide-meshed plexus in the lamina vasculosa. Their cir- cular muscular coat is well developed, and longitudinal muscular fibres are also present in the larger branches. The veins, destitute of muscular tissue, are superficial to the arteries; they are surrounded by peri- vascular lymphatic sheaths and converge to form whorls, which open into the venae vor- ticosae. In the tissue between the blood- vessels are numerous stellate, flattened, and ■pigmented cells. The lamina chorio- capillaris, or membrane of Kuysch, is composed essentially of small capillaries, which form Suprascleral vessels Vena vorticosa posterior ciliary artery Short posterior ciliary artery r Outer and \ inner vessels of optic sheath Optic nerve Central artery and vein of retina Fig. 496.—Diagram of the Circulation in the Eye (Leber). an exceedingly close network, embedded in a finely granular or almost homogeneous tissue. The intermediate stratum between the lamina vasculosa and lamina chorio- capillaris consists of a network of delicate elastic fibres and contains almost no pigment cells; it is lined next the lamina choriocapillaris by a continuous layer of endothelium. The lamina basalis, or membrane of Bruch, is transparent andjnearly structure- less. Its outer surface presents a trellis-like network of fibres, which unite it to the membrane of Euysch, while its inner surface is smooth and is in contact with the pigment^ layer of the retina. Tapetum.—In many animals a brilliant iridescent appearance is seen on the postero-external part of the chorioid, to which the name tapetum is applied. Absent in man, it may be due, as ill the horse, to a markedly fibrous condition of the stratum intermedium (tapetum filjrosuni), or, as in the seal, to the presence of some five or six layers of flattened iridescent cells lying imme- diately outside the lamina choriocajjillaris (tapetum cellulosum).