790 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. Branches.—I(() Nutrient to the radius and ulna; {!>) Muscular to the adjacent muscles; (c) Tlic anterior communiciting, a slender branch which descends behind the pronator quadratus and in front of tlie interosseous membrane to anastomose with the anterior carpal arch ; (d) Siiiall anastomotic branches are given off at the back of the forearm to anastomose with the posterior or interosseous artery ; (e) The comes nervi mediant (a. mediana) is a long slender branch which rises from the upper part of the artery and descends in the front of the median nerve to the palm, where it anastomoses with recurrent branches of the superficial palmar arcli. Aiicoiieus Supinator brevis Posterior inter- osseous recurrent artery Posterior inter- osseous artery Flexor carpi ulnaris Extensor carpi ulnaris Anterior inter- osseous artery Posterior inter- osseous artery- Posterior carpal arch Superior per- forating artery Dorsal inter- osseous arteries Supinator longus Extensor carpi lailialis longior Extensor carpi ulnaris Extensor communis (ligitoruni Extensor carpi radialis brevior Posterior interosseous nerve Pronator radii teres Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis (36) The posterior inter- osseous trunk (a. interossea dorsalis) is usually smaller than the anterior interosseous. It passes backwards between the upper border of the interosseous membrane and the oblique liga- ment, and then between the supinator brevis and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, after which it descends between the superficial and deep muscles on the back of the forearm to the wrist, where it anastoniioses with the anterior interosseous artery and with the posterior carpal arch. As it crosses the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis it is accompanied by the posterior interosseous nerve, but in the remainder of its course it is separated from the nerve by the dec J) muscles. Branches. — («) A posterior interosseous recurrent (a. intero.ssea recuri'eus) branch is given off as soon as tlie posterior interosseous artery has passed beneath the lower border of the supinator brevis. It ascends on tlie jiosterior surface of the supiitator brevis, under cover of the'auconeus, to the back of the external condyle of the humerus, where it anastomoses with the 2)osterior terminal branch of the stiperior profunda and with liranches of the anastomotic artery. (6) Muscular branches to l)oth super- ficial and deep muscles on the back of the forearm. (c) Cutaneous branches to the skin on the back of the forearm and the liack of the wrist. (d) The anterior ulnar carpal (ramus carpeus volaris), a small branch given off above the anterior annular ligament, passes outwards lieneath the flexor tendons and their sheaths on the anterior surface of the carpal ligaments, and anastomoses with the anterior carpal branch of the radial to form the anterior carpal arch. (fi) The posterior ulnar carpal branch (ramus carpeus dorsalis) arises from the back of tlie inner side of the ulnar artery just above the pisiform bone. It passes backwards beneath the flexor and extensor carpi ulnaris muscles to the back of the Extensor longus pollicis Extensor brevis pollicis Extensor indicis Radial arteiy Dor.salis pollicis arteries Dorsalis indicis Fic. 5t)5.—The Posterior Interosseous Artery .\nd the Second Part of the Radial Artery, with their Branches.