SUEFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. 1226 just large enough to easily aibiiit the hnger. In resecting the pylorus, the surgeon should renieinl)er that the gastro-duodeiial vessels lie behind the first part of the duodenum, about 1 in. to the right of the pylorus. The second part of the duodenum descends in the right vertical Pou})art plane, and is crossed a))out its middle, at the level of the infracostal plane, ])j the attachment of the transverse mesocolon. It lies in front of the hilus and lower part of the inner border of the right kidney. The transverse 2wrtion of the third part of the duodenum occupies the upper part of the um])ilical region, and crosses tlie middle line about 1 in. above a line joining the highest part of the iliac crests; behind its commencement is the upper part of the right ureter. The ascc/iuling jwrtio7i of the third part of the duodeniim crosses the infra- costal plane, and ascends upon the left side of the verteljral column opposite the second and third lumliar vertebrie. The duodeno-jejunal flexure, which lies in the transpyloric plane 1 in. to the left of the mesial plane, is the landmark which the surgeon makes for when he wishes to identify the commencement of the jejunum (Fig. 677, p. 1004). To find the fie.xure the omentum and transverse colon should l)e thrown upwards and the finger passed along the lower layer of the transverse mesocolon to the left side of the vertebral column. The tlexure lies in the angle or recess formed l)y the left side of the second luml»ar vertebra and the under surface of the l)ody of the pancreas. With the hnger in this recess the commencement of the jejunum may l)e hooked forward a little to the left of the superior mesenteric vessels at the root of tlie mesentery. In connexion with the duodeno-jejunal junction is the duodeno-jejunal fossa (inferior duodenal fossa of Jonnesco), formed by a fold of ])eritoneum which stretches from tlie left side of the fourth or ascending part of the duodenum upwards to l)ecome attached to the peritoneum of the posterior alxlominal wall close, to the inner border of the left kidney. The free edge of the fold and the mouth of tlie fossa look upwards. This is one of the situations at which an internal hernia sometimes develops, the sac, as it enlarges, extending further and further into the extra-peritoneal tissue on the posterior a))dominal wall. Should strangulation occur, the hjwer edge of the orifice must l)e divided in a downward direction, in order to avoid the superior mesenteric vein which curves round the anterior and u])per aspects (jf the orifice (Treves). Small Intestine.—The coils of the small intestine dip downwards into the pelvis, overlap tlie ascending and descending portions of the colon, and extend upwards to the attaclinient of the transverse mesocolon. To the left of the mesentery they reach as far as the under surface of the pancreas and the splenic flexure of the colon: here they are overlapped by the lower part of the stomach, from which they are separated liy the transverse mesocolon. The only certain means which tlie surgeon has of distinguishing the upper from the lower coils of small intestine is I)y their relation to the duodeno-jejunal flexure and the ileo- ciecal junction. Occasionally the I'eyer's patches can be seen from the peritoneal aspect and the ileum tlierel)y identified. The terminal jjortion of the ileum, which is attached by the lower end of the mesentery U) the upper part of the right lateral wall of the true pelvis, crosses over its brim, and ascends along the inner edge of the c;ecum before opening into it. The terminal loop of the ileum may be hooked up by passing the finger along the inner side of the ciecum downwards over the inner border of the psoas and the external iliac vessels into the pelvis. Large Intestine.—The caecum, which occupies the right iliac region, comes into contact with the anterior abdominal wall immediately aliove the outer third of Poupart's ligament; laterally, it extends from the anterior superior iliac spine to the brim of the pelvis. When dilated, it extends considerably beyond these limits ; when empty, it is generally m<n"e or less completely overlapped by small intestine. The ileo-csecal valve lies oldiquely a little below the intertubercular plane, imme- diately internal to where that plane is intersected liy the Pou])art plane; it is situated, therefore, at the upper and outer angle of the right hyjjogastric region, opposite a point on the surface 1 in. below the mid-point of a line joining the umbilicus and the anterior superior iliac spine.