399 THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. Rectus abdominis interdigitate the The obliquus externus abdominis i» a broad thin sheet of muscle, with an origin from the outer surfaces of the lower eight ribs, by slips which with serratus mag- nus and latissimus dorsi muscles. The muscular iibres radiate downwards and forwards, the low- est fibres passing vertically down- wards, to be in- serted directly into the outer Hp of the iliac crest in its anterior half • or two-thirds. The rest of the muscle is inserted into an extensive trian- gular aponeurosis covering the an- terior abdominal wall. This apo- neurosis is broader below than above Obliquus externus Obliquus internus Transversalis abdominis\// Fascia transversalis Peritoneum Colon Extraperitoneal tissue Kidney Lumbar fascia Latissimus dorsi quadratus lumbobum Psoas fascia Second lumbar vertebra Psoas Anterior layer of lumbar fascia MULTIFIDUS SPIN^ Semi-spinalis DORSI Middle layer of lumbar fascia Ilio-costalis Vertebral aponeurosis LONGISSIMUS dorsi Fig. 293.—Transverse Sectiqn through the Abdsmen, ©pposite the Second Lumbar Vertebra. it is united with part of the aponeurosis of the obKquus internus in the upper three-fourths of its extent, to form the anterior layer of Obliquus externus muscle Aponeurosis of obliquus externus Iiitercolumnar fibres. Poupart's ligament Iliac portion of fascia lata External cutaneous nerve—/jr Falciform ligament Crural sheath'|'f Femoral vein Femoral artery Geiiito-crural nerve Inferior cornu of saphenous opening Femoral lymphatic gland Internal saphenous vein Eleventh thoracic nerve Twelfth thoracic nerve Ilio-hypogastric nerve fiiteri"al' ] P'^''^^'** °^ external abdominal ring External abdominal ring and spermatic cord Suspensory ligament of penis Ilio-mgumal nerve Body of penis :—Dartos muscle of scrotum Middle cutaneous nerves Pubic portion of fascia lata Pig. 294.-^The Groin. The Structures seen on removal op the Superficial Fascia. the sheath of the rectus muscle. It thus gains an attachment, above to the ensiform cartilage, below to the symphysis pubis, and by its intermediate fibres to the linea