1190 SURFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. mediastinum, there is less risk of opening the pleura if the space be entered from the left side of the vertebral column. The seat of election for tapping the pleura (paracentesis pleurce) is the sixth or seventh costal interspace a little in front of the posterior axillary fold. To allow of the introduc- tion of a tube to drain away the pus from the pleural cavity in empyema, a portion of one of the ribs (sixth to ninth) is resected. The intercostal vessels and nerves, which lie in the groove at the lower border of the rib, are avoided by removing the portion of bone sub- periosteally. If the chest is opened in the scapular line care nmst be taken not to resect either the seventh or the eighth ribs, which arc. exposed when the arm is elevated, but overlapped by the angle of the scapula when the arm is lowered. Anteriorly, the bifurcation of tlie trachea lies at or a little below the anguhis Ludovici, while posteriorly it lies a little below the level of the root of the spine of the scapula, opposite the interval between the third and fourth dorsal spines. The bifurcation takes place one vertebra higher in the infant than in the adult (Symington). The right bronchus is wider and more nearly in a line with the trachea than tlie left Ijronchus, hence the greater tendency of- foreign bodies to enter the former. The roots of the lungs are situated opposite the fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal spines, midway between them and the vertebral borders of the scapulae. The lower end of the trachea, the bronchi, the vagi, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, are all more or less surrounded by lymphatic glands, which, when enlarged, may exert injurioiis pressui'e upon them. THE HEART AND GREAT VESSELS. Viewed from the front, the outline of the precordial area, like that of the peri- cardial sac, is roughly triangular, the base of the triangle being below and the apex above. The boundaries are delineated upon the surface as follows:— The riylit side of the ti'iangle, formed by the right auricle, is indicated by drawing a line slightly convex outwards from the upper end of the third to the sixth (frequently the seventh) right chondro-sternal junctions ; the ciu've attains its maximum opposite the fourth intercostal space, where it reaches 1\ in. from the middle line. The hase of the triangle, formed by the maryo ncutus of the riglit ventricle and to a very slight extent by the apical portion of the left ventricle, is almost horizontal, and corresponds to a line drawn from the sixth or seventh right chondro-sternal junction to the apex of the left ventricle, which lies behind the fifth left intercostal space, 3|- in. from the middle line and ^ in. internal to the mid-clavicular line. The Ijase line crosses the xiphoid cartilage a little below its junction with the body of the sternum. The left side of the triangle, formed by the viargo ohtusus of the left ventricle, is indicated by a slightly curved line extending from the apex of the heart upwards and inwards to the lower edge of the second left chondro-sternal articulation, the convexity of the curve being directed outwards and slightly upwards. The truncated apex of the triangle, which lies behind the sternum at the level (»f the second intercostal space, corresponds to the highest part of the heart, namely, where the auricular appendices embrace the aorta and pulmonary artery. The anterior part of the right auriculo-ventricular groove is mapped out by a line drawn from the middle line, opposite the lower border of the third right costal cartilage, downwards and outwards to the sixth right chondro-sternal junction; the line should be slightly convex upwards and to the right. The right auricular appendix lies at, or a little to the left of, the middle line, at the level of the second intercostal space and the upper border of the third costal cartilage. The left auricular appendix lies behind the second left intercostal space, close to the edge of the sternum. The inferior surface of the heart (facies diaphragmatica) rests upon the dia- phragmatic or basal part of the pericai'dium. The true posterior surface of the heart is formed mainly by the left auricle, which is moulded posteriorly upon the tesophagus, the left bronchus and the bronchial glands, the pericardium intervening.