THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1026 Upper segiupiit of valve iH'liind, wliilst the outer (or outer and anterior) division grows much more rapidly, and, pro- jecting do-H'uwards, soon comes to form the lower end or fundus of the ctecum. As a result the original extremity of the gut, with the vermiform process sjiringing from it, is hidden away - behind and to the inner side of the fundus. Ill leM(jth the distended ctecum usually measures aljout 2| inches (60 mm.); whilst its breadth is usually more, and averages al)out 3 inches (75 mm.). Position.—It is situated, when normal, almost entirely within the right iliac region of the abdomen, immediately above Poupart's ligament; but its lower end projects inwards in front of the psoas and reaches the hypogastrium (Fig. 699). On the other hand, it is sometimes found, even when quite healthy, higli up in the right luniliar region (owing to the persistence of the foetal position), or hanging over the pelvic Inim and dipping into the pelvic cavity to varying extents. In the great majority of cases the cjecum is completely covered by peri- toneum on all aspects, and lies quite free in the abdominal cavity. In a small })roportioii, namely, al)0ut 0 or 7 per cent of bodies, the posterior surface (probably as a result of adhesions) is not completely covered, but over a greater or less portion of its extent is bound down to the posterior abdominal wall l)y connective tissue. Relations.—Behind, the csecuiu rests (111 the ilio-psoas muscle; generally, too, on its own vermiform process and the external iliac arterj\ In front, it usually lies in contact with the anterior abdominal wall; sometimes, however, .^vhen the CcEcuni is empty, the small intestine intervenes. Its outer side is placed immediately above the outer half of Poupart's ligament (Fig. 699), wliilst the inner side has the termination of the ileum lying in contact with it. On the inner and posterior aspect, but more on the former than the latter, the small intestine joins the ca?cum. On the same aspect, and usually about 1} inches (31 mm.) lower down, the vermiform process comes off. The interior of the CtECum corre- sponds in general appearance to that of the large intestine; but it presents two special features on the posterior part of its inner wall, namely, the ileo- caecal orifice, guarded by the ileo-cseoal valve, and lielow this the small opening of the vermiform appendix, both of which call for further notice. Ileo-csecal Valve (valvula coli).^— Where the ileum enters the large in- testine, the end of the small gut is, as it were, thrust through the wall of the large bowel, carrying with it certain layers of that wall, which project into the caecum in the form of tv^o folds, lying respectively above and below its orifice, and constituting the two segments of the ileo-CcGcal valve (Fig. 695). The condition may be compared to a partial inversion Lower segiiienl Orifice of appendix Fig. 694.—Three Forms of Ii,eo-c«cal Valve, from bodie.s hardene.l by intravascular injections of formalin. The hardening was not so complete in tlie case of tlie highest of the three ^■alves represented. In each a bristle is passed through the oritice of tlie vernu- forni appendi.x.