428 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. Central Canal (canalis centralis).—As previously stated, the central canal is found in the gray commissure. It is a very minute tunnel, barely visible to the naked eye vi^hen seen in transverse section, and it traverses the entire length of the cord. Above, it passes into the medulla oblongata, and finally opens into the fourth ventricle of the brain; belov^r, it is continued for a variable distance into the filum terminale, and in this it ends blindly. Only in the lumbar region does the central canal occupy the centre of the cord. Above this level, in the dorsal and cervical regions, it lies very much nearer the anterior than the posterior aspect of the cord; whilst below the lumbar region, as it is traced down into the conus medullaris, it inclines backwards and approaches the posterior aspect of the cord. The calibre of the canal likewise varies somewhat in different parts of the cord. It is narrowest in the dorsal region; and in the lower part of the conus medullaris it expands into a distinct fusiform dilatation (very nearly 1 mm. in transverse diameter), which is termed the ventriculus terminalis (Krause). The central canal is lined by a layer of ciliated columnar cells, the deep taper- ing ends of which are prolonged into slender processes, which penetrate into the substance of the cord. These cells constitute the lining ependymal cells of the canal. The central canal is of interest because it represents in the adult the relatively wide lumen of the early ectodermal neural tube from which the spinal cord is developed. Filum Terminale.—The delicate thread to which this name is applied is con- tinuous with the lower tapered end of the conus medullaris. It is easily distin- guished by its silvery and glistening appearance from the numerous long nerve-roots (cauda equina) amidst which it lies. It is about six inches long, and down to the level of the second sacral vertebra it is inclosed with the surrounding nerve-roots within the theca of dura mater. Piercing the tapered and closed end of the theca at this point, and receiving an investment from it, the filum terminale proceeds downwards in the sacral canal, and finally receives attachment to the periosteum on the dorsal aspect of the coccyx (Fig. 315, p. 421). It is customary to speak of the filum as consisting of two parts, viz. the filum terminale internum and the filum terminale externum, or the part inside and the part outside the theca of dura mater. The filum terminale externum is simply a fibrous thread, strengthened by the prolongation it receives as it pierces the dura mater. The filum terminale internum is largely composed of pia mater ; but in its upper half it incloses the terminal part of the central canal, and around this a variable amount of the gray substance of the cord is prolonged downwards into the filum. When transverse sections are made through the upper part of the filum terminale internum some bundles of medul- lated nerve-fibres are observed clinging to its sides, and with these are associated some nerve-cells identical with those in the spinal ganglia. These represent rudi- mentary or aborted caudal nerves (Eauber). Component Parts of the Geay Matter of the Spinal Cord. Neuroglia enters largely into the constitution of the gray matter of the cord. It forms a bed within which the nervous elements are distributed. These nervous elements consist of (1) nerve-cells and (2) nerve-fibres—both medullated and non- medullated. The nerve-cells lie in small spaces within the neuroglia, whilst the nerve-fibres traverse fine passages the walls of which are formed of the same sub- stance. The neuroglia is thus an all-pervading basis substance, which isolates more or less completely the nervous elements from each other, and at the same time binds them together into a consistent solid mass. In the gray matter of the cord we distinguish two different kinds of material, viz. the substantia gelatinosa and the ' substantia spongiosa. The substantia gelatinosa, as already mentioned, forms the apex of the posterior horn of gray matter, and in this situation it is called the substantia gelatinosa Rolandi. It is also present in the form of a thick ring around the central canal, and here it receives the name of the substantia gelatinosa centralis. The remaiijder of the gray matter constitutes the substantia spongiosa. The sub-