THE ARTICULATIONS OR JOINTS. 294 ending, a certain amount of screw movement or rotation. Flexion and rotation occur at the femoro-tibial sections of the joint, whereas the movement at the femoro-patellar portion produces a regulating and controlling influence upon flexion. Taking these factors separately, we observe that each condyle adajits itself' to a shallow cup formed by the head of the tibia and the corresponding semilunar cartilage, and as the two condyles move simultaneously and parallel to each other, there is more than the characteristic hinge-joint action, for each condyle glides and rolls in its cup " like a wheel restrained by a drag " (Goodsir) when the movement of bending occurs. Thus the different parts of the condyles are successively brought into relation with the transverse axis of the joint while it jjasses from extension to flexion and vice versa. From the fact that the internal condyle is longer than the external, it is believed that extension is completed by a movement of rotation whereby the joint iljecomes locked, and the anterior crucial, the posterior and the latei-al ligaments, become tense. A similar rotation initiates the movement of flexion, and unlocks the joint by relaxing the liga- jnents just mentioned. Since the tibia and foot are fixed in the act of walking, it is the femur which rotates upon the tibia in passing from extension to flexion and vice versa; and as relaxation of the ilio-femoral ligament is essential for this rotation, some ol)servers are of opinion that the body weight falls behind the transverse axis of the knee-joint, as in the case of the hip-joint, and consequently that ■extensitm of the knee-joint is maintained by the ilio-femoral ligament, as it is not j^ossible to bend the knee without first having bent the hip-joint. During flexion and extension the semilunar cartilages glide along with the condyles, so as to maintain their close adaptation and preserve their value as packing agents. When the movement ■of flexion is completed, the condyles are retained upon the tibia, and prevented from slipping off by the tension of the posterior crucial ligament. In this position a small degree of rotation of the tibia, both inwards and outwards, is also permissiljle. Tlie I'egulating and controlling influence of the femoro-patellar portion of the articulation is hrought into i)lay during the movements of flexion and extension. In the latter position the inferior ])air of patellar facets is in apposition with the upper part of the femoral trochlea. As flexion advances, the middle pair of facets adapt themselves to a deeper area, of the trochlea, into which the patellar keel fits. When flexion is still further advanced, the upper ])air of patellar facets will be found fitting into that part of the trochlea adjoining the intercondyloid notch ; and finally, when flexion is complete, the patella lies opposite the intercondyloid notch, while the forward thrust of the longer internal condyle brings its semilunar facet (Goodsir) into apposition with the somewhat vertical facet at the inner border of the patella. The wedge-like influence of the patella is most marked, for it is only in the jJosition of extension that it can be moved from side to side. Tlie movements of the patella may be described as gliding and co-aptation, as it slijis or rocks from one pair of facets to another in its progress along the trough of the femoral trochlea. THE TIBIO-FIBULAR JOINTS. The upper and lower ends of the fibula articulate with the tibia. Primarily, the fibula is required to form a strong lateral support for the ankle-joint, and therefore its articulations are so arranged as to provide a certain amount of elasticity without any sacrifice of the rigidity necessary for security. Hence the amount of movement is very small, but what there is, enables these joints to be classified as arthrodial diarthroses. The superior tibio-fibular joint (articulatio tibio-fibularis) is formed, on the one hand by a fiat oval or circular facet which is situated upon the postero-external aspect of the outer tuberosity of the head of the tibia, and is directed downwards and backwards ; on the other, by a similar facet on the upper surface of the head of the fibula in front of the styloid process. A fibrous capsule (capsula articularis. Fig. 224) invests the joint, and it may be regarded as holding the articular surfaces in apposition, although certain special bands receive separate designations. Occasionally there is an opening in the capsule by which communication is established between the joijit-cavity and the knee- joint through the intermediation of the synovial prolongation, subjacent to the tendon of the popliteus muscle. The anterior superior tibio-fibular ligament (lig. capituli fibulae anterius, Fig. 223) is a strong fiat band whose fibres extend from the anterior aspect of the fibular head, upwards and inwards, to the adjoining part of the tul^erosity of the tibia. The posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament (lig. capituli fibulae anterius, Fig. 224) is a similar, but weaker band, passing upwards and inwards from the posterior aspect of the fibular head to the posterior aspect of the outer tuberosity of the tibia, where they are attached immediately below the opening in the capsule of the knee-joint, from which the tendon of the popliteus muscle escapes.