THE CEEEBELLUM. 469 Lobes on the Upper Surface of the Cerebellum.—When examined from before backwards, the superior vermis presents the following subdivisions: (1) the lingula; (2) the central lobule (lobulus centralis); (3) the culmen monticuli; (4) the clivus monticuli; (5) the folium cacuminis (folium vermis). With the exception of the lingula, each of these is continuous on either side, with a corresponding district on the upper surface of the hemisphere, thereby forming a cerebellar lobe. Thus the central lobule is prolonged outwards on either side in an expansion called the ala ; the culmen constitutes the median connecting piece between the two anterior crescentic lobules of the hemispheres; the clivus stands in the same relation to the two posterior crescentic lobules; and the folium cacuminis is the connecting band between the postero-superior lobules of the hemispheres. The lingula can only be seen when the part of the cerebellum which forms the bottom of the anterior notch is pushed backwards. It consists of four or five small folia continuous with the gray matter of the vermis superior, which are prolonged forwards on the upper surface of the superior medullary velum in the interval between the two superior cerebellar peduncles. Lobus Centralis with its Alae.—The lobulus centralis lies at the bottom of the anterior cerebellar notch, and is only seen to a very small extent on the upper surface of the organ. It is a little median mass which laterally is prolonged out- wards for a short distance round the anterior notch in the form of two expansions, termed the alte. Lobus Culminis.—The culmen monticuli constitutes the highest part or summit of the monticulus of the vermis superior. It is prolonged outwards on either side into the lateral hemisphere as the anterior crescentic lobule. This is the most anterior subdivision on the upper surface of the hemisphere. The two anterior crescentic lobules, with the culmen monticuli, form the lobus culminis cerebelli. Lobus Clivi.—The clivus monticuli lies behind the culmen, from which it is separated by a strongly marked fissure, and it forms the sloping part or descent of the monticulus of the vermis superior. On each side it is continuous with the posterior crescentic lobule of the lateral hemisphere, and the three parts are included under the one name of lobus clivi. The two crescentic lobulea on tlie upper surface of the hemisphere are sometimes classed together and described as the lobulus quadrangularis. Lobus Cacuminis.—The folium cacuminis forms the most posterior part of the vermis superior, and it thus bounds the great horizontal fissure superiorly at the posterior notch. It is a single folium, the surface of which may be smooth or beset with rudimentary secondary folia. It is the median connecting link between the two postero-superior lobules of the hemispheres, the three parts forming the lobus cacuminis. As the folium cacuminis is traced outwards into the postero-superior lobule, it is found to expand greatly, and as a result of this the postero-superior lobule on each side forms an extensive foliated district bounding the great hori- zontal fissure above. Lobes on the Under Surface of the Cerebellum.—The connexion between the several parts of the inferior vermis and the corresponding districts on the under surface of the two hemispheres is not nearly so distinct as in the case of the vermis superior and the lobules on the upper surface of the hemispheres. A groove, the sulcus valleculse, intervenes between the vermis inferior and the hemisphere on each side. From behind forwards the following subdivisions of the vermis inferior may be recognised: (1) the tuber valvulse (tuber vermis); (2) the pyramid (pyramis); (3) the uvula ; (4) the nodule (nodulus). On the under surface of the hemisphere there are four main lobules mapped out by intervening fissures. From before backwards these are: (1) the flocculus, a little lobule lying upon the middle peduncle of the cerebellum; (2) the biventral lobule (lobulus biventer), which is placed immediately behind the flocculus and is partially divided into two parts by a curved fissure which traverses its surface; (3) the tonsil or amygdala (tonsilla), a rounded lobule whicli bounds the vallecula on the inner side of the biventral lobule; (4) the postero-inferior lobule, which is