SURFACE AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. 1186 dorsal vertebrae. Immediately l)elow the xiphi-sternal articulation is the infra- sternal notch, formed l)y the junction of the seventh costal cartilages with the sternum. Below the notch is the epigastric fossa or triangle, bounded laterally by the seventh costal cartilages. The apex of the triangle forms an angle which varies considerably according to the shape of the chest, the average being al)out 70\ Not infrequently the eighth costal cartilage articulates with the sternum. Fracture of the sternum i.s rare, and generally occurs at or close to tlie juuctiou of tbe manu- brium and the body; it may occur either from direct violence, or indirectly along with* fracture of the spine. Unlike that of tlie rilis, the periosteiun covering the sternum is firmly adherent to the hone. The ribs, which in well-nourished subjects cause no surface prominences, are readily visible in thin persons; in the ol)ese they are very difficult to feel. In counting the ril)s from the front, the second may always be identified ]jy its relation to the angulus Lu(.lu\-ici. The first rib is to a large extent under cover of the clavicle. The lower border of the pectoralis major and the first visible digitation of the serratus niagnus afford reliable guides to the fifth nb: The infra-sternal notch is the guide to the inner end of the seventh costal cartilage. The second and third costal cartilages are practically horizontal; below this tile cartilages ascend with increasing obliquity, that of the sixth being the first to present a distinct angle. The inner end of the second intercostal space is the widest, while those of the fifth and sixth are very narrow. The costo-chondral junctions may be indicated on the surface by a line drawn from the upper end of the para-sternal line to a point a finger's breadth behind the angle of the tenth costal cartilage. The internal mammary artery crosses behind the inner ends of the upper five intercostal spaces about ^ hi. from the edge of the sternum; as it descends it approaches a little nearer to the sternum. The vessel is accompanied by t\Vo veins which unite to form a single vein opposite the second intersj)ace. Tliis artery is occasionally injured in punctured wounds of the chest. At the second or third intercostal space it is easily ligatured tlirongh a transverse incision, hut at a lower level it is generally necessary to resect a portion of one of the costal cartilages. THE LUNGS. The apex of the lung extends upwards into the root of the neck for a distance of 1 to 2 in. al)ove the anterior extremity of the first rib, and is mapped out by a curved line drawn from the upper border of the sterno-clavicular articulation across the sterno-mastoid to the junction of the inner and middle thirds of the clavicle, the highest part of the curve reaching from |- to 1| in. above the clavicle. The apex of the right lung reaches |- in. higher than that of the left lung. Inti- mately related to the apex of the cervical pleura are the subclavian artery and the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Both tlie cervical pleura and tlie subclavian artery may be injured by one of the fragments in a fracture of the i-lavicle ; tlie .scaleiii muscles, however, affording considerable jjrotecfion to the former. In ligaturing the third part of the sulwlavian artery, care must be taken not to injure the cervical pleura. To delineate the anterior border of the right lung, draw a line from the upper border of the sterno-clavicular articulation to the centre of the manubrium sterni, and from thence vertically downwards, in or slightly to the left of the middle line, to the level of the sixth or seventh costal cartilage, or it may be even to the infra-sternal notch. The anterior border of the left lung is mapped out by a corresponding line as far as the fourth costal cartilage; thence it is directed outwards along the lower border of the fourth costal cartilage to the para-sternal line; it then passes down- wards and slightly outwards across the fourth interspace, and curves inwards Iiehind the fifth costal cartilage and fifth interspace to reach the upper border of the sixth costal cartilage in the para-sternal line. The lower part, therefore, of the anterior surface of the right ventricle is uncovered by lung and gives a completely