THE LIVEE. 1067 Umbilical vein Lmbilical cord umbilical vein directly backwards to the vena cava. At the time of birth the ductus venosus and umbilical vein cease to carry blood, their cavities become obliterated, and they degenerate into fibrous cords. Physical Characters of the Liver.—The liver is a coiupact mass, moderately firm to the touch ; it is pUaiit, ))ut not tough, and is easily lacerated. Its torn surface presents a granular appearance, due to the fact that it is made up of small loljules about the size of a pin's head (xV^h to ^Vth of an inch, 1 to 2 mm.). These little lobules also give its exterior a characteristic finely-mottled appearance. Its c't)l()uv is reddish brown, and its specific gravity varies from 1'05 to 1'0(J. In the Child.—The liver of the child differs from that of the adult, in being rela- tively larger—-^^th of the body weight at l)irth as against jsVth or Jg-th in the adult—in occupying more of the abdominal cavity, and in the fact that its two lobes are more nearly equal in size, the pro- portion l)eing as two to one at Itirth and as four to one in the adult. Variations in Size, Form, and Position.—Few- organs will 1)1' found to vary more in size in different bodies than the liver ; these variations, liowever, are very frequently to be looked upon as jiathological. But even normal, healthy livers ^'ary in weight from 48 to 58 ounces in the adult male, and from 40 to 50 ounces in the female. Variations in form and position (loul)tlessly take place i^hysiologically, as a result of the conditions of fulness or emptiness of the adjacent viscera; for, though the liver, like the other solid alxlominal organs, has an intrinsic shape of its own, this is cajiable of modification within cei'tain limits by the varying pressure of the srirronnding parts. Tims, great distension of the stomach, or of a portion of the transverse colon lying in the stomach chamber, pushes the liver over to the right, so that it may hardly reach the ndddle line, and at the same time it increases its vertical depth. On the other hand, a distended state of the small intestines, with a con- tracted stomach and colon, may have the opposite effect, flattening it from lielow upwards and enlarg- ing it in the transverse direction. Variations in form and position dur to nutl- forinations of the thoracic framework, either con- genital or accpiired, are very common, particularly in females as a result of tight lacing, which carries in the lower rilis. Sometimes in these cases the constriction of the w^aist lies chietly below the liver. The organ is then forced up against the diaphragm, filling its whole vault, and extending across to the left abdominal wall, wdiere its left margin may lie in the interval between the diaphragm and the spleen. But more commonly it would seem that the liver is caught by the constriction : its upper part is then closely pressed into the vault of the diaphragm, which, owing to the narrowing of the thorax, is imable to acconnnodate the whole organ, so that its lower part is crushed down for a considerable distance into the umbilical zone of the abdomen (Fig. 678, p. 1006), particularly on the right side. Often, too, a wdde, tongue-like process (the so-called " Riedel's lobe") descends from the lower margin, external to the gall- bladder. This process, which when very large may reach to the iliac crest, is sometimes found in men, although more connuou in women, and is lial.ile to Ije mistaken for a tumour. A some- what similar process occasionallj' descends from the left lolie. Again, in ajjparently healthy bodies the liver may extend up on the right side almost to the fourth rib ; whilst in other cases it may lie as low as the sixth rili, or even lower. Nor is it rare—particularly in females—to find the lower border projecting two or three inches (5'0 to 7'5 cm.) below the margin of the thorax on the right side (Figv 678, p. 1006). Reference should be made here to certain grooves often .seen on the liver. Some of these are found running ol)liqueh' low down at the right side where the liver is in contact with the rihs ; they are particularly connnon in females, and are due to the pressure of the ribs resulting from tight lacing. Grooves of a different kind are found at the upjier part of the parietal surface, where the liver is in contact with the diaphragm ; these usually run radially, that, is in the direction of the muscular fibres of the dia[)hragm, and are aiiparently produced by a wrinkling, or irregular coiiti'actinn, of the iliajihragm. At least, ridges of the diapliragm are found lying in the grooves, and these ridges or wi-inkles would seem to be responsilde for the ])rodnction f)f the groo\'('S. Finally, the liver may present certain congenital irregularities in the dii'cclicjn ot additional fissures and lol)es, which repi'oduce the c-ouilitions fnuud iu the higher apes, and are \'ery Fici. 717.—The Audojunal and Thohacic ViscEKA OF A Five-Months Fcetus. Tlie large liver and the large size of its left lobe, at tliis age, should be noted.