746 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. cusp. The bases of the cusps are either coutmuous with each other at their attachments to the fibrous ring round the mitral orifice, or they are separated by small intermediate cusps of irregular form and size. The apices of the cusps hang down into the cavity of. the ventricle. The auricular surfaces are smooth; the ventricular surfaces are roughened by the attachments of the chordse tendineae, which are also connected with the irregular and notched margins and with the apices. The structure is the same as that of the cusps of the tricuspid valve, but the ventricular surface of the anterior (or aortic) cusp is relatively smooth. The aortic orifice is circular; it lies immediately in front and to the right of the mitral orifice, from which it is separated by the anterior cusp of the mitral valve, and it is guarded by the aortic valve, formed of three semilunar segments (valvulse semilunares aortee), one of which is placed anteriorly and the other two posteriorly. The structure of these cusps and their attachments are similar to those of the cusps of the pulmonary valve. The cavity of the left ventricle is separable, hke that of the right, into two portions, the body and the aortic vestibule; the latter is a small section placed immediately below the aortic orifice, and its walls are non-contractile, consisting of fibrous and fibro-cartilaginous tissue. The cavity is lined by endocardium. The inferior wall and the apex are rendered sponge-like by numerous fine columnse carnefe of the first and second classes, whilst the upper part of the antero-superior wall and the septum are relatively smooth. There are two papillary muscles of much larger size than those met with in the right ventricle—an anterior and a posterior; each is connected by chordse tendinea; with both cusps of the mitral valve. The walls of the left ventricle, with the exception of the septum, are three times as thick as those of the right ventricle, and they are thickest in the region of the widest portion of the cavity, which is situated about a fourth of its length from the base. The muscular portion of the wall attains its minimum thickness at the apex, but the thinnest portion of the boundary is at the upper part of the septum, which consists entirely of fibrous tissue; here it is occasionally deficient, and an aperture is left through which the cavities of the two ventricles communicate. The interventricular septum (septum ventriculorum) is a musculo-membranaus partition. It is placed obliquely, one surface looking forwards and to the right and bulging into the right ventricle, and the other backwards and to the left towards the left ventricle. Its antero-superior and inferior margins correspond respectively with the anterior and inferior portions of the interventricular sulcus, and it extends from the right of the apex to the interval between the pulmonary and aortic orifices. In the main part of its extent it is muscular (septum musculare ventriculorum), and this portion is developed from the wall of the ventricular part of the heart; but its upper and posterior portion, the pars membranacea (septum membranaceum ventriculorum), which is developed from the septum of the aortic bulb, is entirely fibrous, and constitutes the thinnest portion of the ventricular walls. The pars membranacea lies between the aortic vestiliule on the left and the upper part of the right ventricle, as well as the lower and left part of the right auricle, on the right. Structure of the Heart. The walls of the heart consist iiiaiuly of j^eculiar striped muscle, the myocardium, ■which is enclosed between the visceral layer of the pericardium, or epicardium, externally, and the endocardium internally. The muscular fibres differ from those of ordinary voluntary striped nuiscle in several ways: they are shorter, many of them being oblong cells with forked ex- tremities which are closely cemented to similar processes of adjacent cells ; they form a reticulum, and the nuclei lie in the centres of the cells. Moreover, in some of the lower mammals, in the young child up to the end of the first year, and occasionally in the human adult also, still more peculiar fibres, the fibres of Purkinje, are found immediately beneath the sub-endocardial tissue. These are large cells which unite with each other at their extremities; their central portions consist of granular protojilasm, in which sometimes one, but more frequently two nuclei are embedded, and the peripheral portion of each cell is transversely striated. These cells, in short, present in a permanent form a condition which is transitory in all other striped muscle cells. The reticulating cardiac muscle cells are grouped in sheets and strands which have a more or less characteristic and definite arrangement in different jjarts of the heart; by careful dis-