UROGENITAL SYSTEM. 10!)0 when that viscus is distended they are often two inches, or more, distant from one another. In the female, the ureter, near its termination, lies to tlie outer side of the cervix uteri and upper part of the vagina. It is accompanied in the lower part of its course l)y the uterine artery, wliich crosses it on its anterior aspect not far from its termination. Higher up it lies in the peritoneal fold which forms the posterior and lower l)oundary of the fossa ovarica (Fig. 770). Structure of the Ureter.—The wall of the ureter is thick and of a whitish colour. Within the outer fibrous coat (tunica adventitia) is a muscular coat (tunica muscidaris) of unstriated muscle fibres. This latter consists of a layer of Vesical arlerj First sacral vertebra External iliac vessels I opHiiiiiH of ureter into bladder / ' rortioiis of vasadeferentia cut in section Fk:. 736.—Mesial Section of an Adult Male Pklvls. The coils of the .snuiU iute.stiue which lay within the pelvis have been lifted out in ortler to give a view of tlie side wall of the pelvic cavity. The ])eritoueuni is coloured blue. The separation of the bladder from the prostate is indicated somewliat diagraniniatically. circularly-disposed fibres enclosed between two layers of longitudinal fibres. The inner, or mucous coat (tunica mucosa), which usually exhibits a number of longi- tudinally-disposed folds, possesses an epithelium resembling that of the bladder. Variations.—Tlie ureter is sometimes represented by two tubes in its u])per portion. In rarer cases it is double tln-cmghout its whole leugtli, from the pelvis of the kidney to the bladtler. THE BLADDER The bladder (vesica urinaria) is a hollow viscus into which the ureters conduct the urine secreted by the kidneys. It is placed in the anterior part of the pelvic cavity, and lies behind the symphysis pulns. The bladder is situated in front of the rectum, from which it is separated i7i the male by the seminal vesicles and the terminal portions of the vasa deferentia, and in the female by the vagina and uterus. Its wall is chiefly composed of muscular tissue, but the thickness of the wall and tlie size of the cavity depend on the amount of fluid contained within the (jrgan. Tlie opening into the urethra, or canal by which the urine leaves the bladder, is placed in the middle line of the under part of the bladder wall, not far