OSTEOLOGY. 122 area (facies temporalis), concavo-convex from before backwards. It slopes inwards below, where it is separated from the zygomatic area by a well-marked muscular ridge, tlie infra-temporal crest or pterygoid ridge (crista infratemporalis). Behind, the temporal surface is bounded by the margin of the great wing which articulates with the squamous temporal, and above by the edge which unites it with the anterior inferior angle of the parietal and the frontal bone. The temporal surface enters into the formation of the floor of the fossa of the same name, and aftbrds an extensive attachment to the hbres of origin of the temporal muscle. The zygomatic surface (facies infratemporalis), situated below the infra-temporal crest, corresponds to the under surface of the posterior half of the great wing; it extends as far back as the alar spine and posterior border. Opening on it are seen the orifices of the foramen spinosum and ovale. It is slightly concave from side to side, and is confluent internally with the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. In front it is bounded by a ridge which curves upwards and outwards from the fore part of the external pterygoid plate to join the infratemporal crest. In the articulated skull this ridge forms the posterior boundary of the pterygo-maxillary fissure. The zygomatic surface overhangs the zygomatic fossa, and affords origin to the upper head of the external pterygoid muscle. The pterygoid processes (processus pterygoidei) spring from the [inferior surface of tlie lateral aspect of the body as well as the under side of the root of the great wings, and pass vertically downwards. Each consists of two laminte, the external and internal pterygoid plates, fused together anteriorly, and enclosing between them posteriorly the pterygoid fossa (fossa pterygoidea). The external pterygoid plate (lamina lateralis processus pterygoidei), thin and expanded, is directed ol;)li(|uely backwards and outwards, its lower part being often somewhat everted. Its hinder edge is sharp, and often has projecting from it one or two spines, to one of which (processus pterygo-spinosus) the pterygo-spinous ligament which stretches towards the alar spine is attached. Externally it furnishes an origin for the lower head of the external pterygoid muscle, and on its inner side, where it forms the lateral wall of the pterygoid fossa, it supplies an attachment for the internal pterygoid miiscle. The internal pterygoid plate (lamina medialis processus pterygoidei) is narrower and somewhat stouter. By its inner aspect it forms the posterior part of the lateral wall of the nasal fossae; externally it is directed towards the pterygoid fossa. Its posterior edge ends below in the hook-like hamular process (hamulus pterygoidei), which, reaching a lower level than the external plate, curves back- wards and outwards, furnishing a groove in which the tendon of the tensor palati muscle glides; superiorly, the sharp posterior margin of the inner plate bifurcates, so as to enclose the shallow scaphoid fossa from which the tensor palati muscle arises, and wherein may occasionally be seen the inferior aperture of the foramen Vesalii. To the inner edge of this fossa, as well as to the posterior border of the internal pterygoid plate, the pharyngeal aponeurosis is attached. Here, too, the cartilage of the Eustachian tube is supported on a slight projection, and the palato- pharyngeus muscle receives an origin, whilst the superior constrictor of the pharynx arises from the lower third of the same border and from the hamular process. Superiorly and internally the inner plate forms an incurved lamina of bone, the vaginal process (processus vaginalis), which is applied to the under surface of the lateral aspect of the body reaching inwards, towards the root of the rostrum, from whicli, however, it is separated by a groove, in which, in the articulated skull, the ala of the vomer is lodged. The angle formed by the vaginal process and the internal edge of the scaphoid fossa forms a projection called the pterygoid tubercle, immediately above which is the posterior aperture of the Vidian canal (canalis pterygoideus), through which the Vidian nerve and artery are transmitted. On its under surface tlie vaginal process displays a groove (sulcus pterygo-palatinus) which ill the articulated skull is converted into the pterygo-palatine canal by its union with the palate bone. In front, at its root, the pterygoid process displays a broad smooth surface (facies spheno-maxillaris), which is confluent above with the root of tlie great wing around the foramen rotundum, and forms the posterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa. Here, to the inner side of the foramen rotundum,