THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 1225 allows of greater downward displacement of the liver. To reach the centre of the lateral siu'face of the right lobe portions of the seventh and eighth ribs should be resected in the mid-axillary line, and both the pleural and peritoneal cavities must be traversed. The relation of the fundus of the gall-bladder to the surface is subject to considerable variation; generally it is situated opposite the angle between the ninth costal cartilage and the outer border of the rectus. The cystic duct, wliich passes downwards and forwards, is l:)ent sharply upon itself close to its origin at the neck of the gall-bladder. The common bile-duct, about '■) in. in IcDgth, lies, in its upper third, in the right free border of the gastro-hepatic omentum; its loiver two-thirds lie at first behind the first part of the duodenum, and then between the head of the pancreas and the second part of the duodenum, on the inner wall of which it opens a little above its termination. Fenger has shown that the middle ■portion of the common duct is that which is least closely related to the portal vein. Stomach.—The stomach lies almost entirely within tlie left, half of the epi- gastric and the left hypochondriac regions. The cardiac orifice, which lies 1 in. below and to the left-of the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm, is about 4 in. from the surface, and corresponds, on the anterior surface- of the body, to a point over the seventh left costal cartilage 1 in. from the sternum. The pylorus, which is generally partly overlapped by the lower margin of the liver, lies, as a rule, about 1 in. to the riglit of the mesial plane; when the sti»mach is empty it generally lies in the mesial plane, when distended it may reach two, or even three, inches to the right of the middle line. The pyloric portion of the stomach is prac- tically bisected by a horizontal plane wKich passes through the abdomen at the level of a point midway between the suprasternal notch and pubic symphysis (Addison); it lies, therefore, 3 to 4 in. below the infrasternal notch, mid- way between it and the iimbilicus, (jpposite the first lumbar vertebra. The highest part of the fundus of the stomach corresponds. to the left vault of the diaphragm, and lies a little above and behind the apex of the heart. The greatec curvature crosses behind the left costal inargin opposite the tip of the ninth costal cartilage, that is to say, where the transpyloric line intersects the vertical Poupart line. The lowest part of the great curvature, situated generally in the mesial plane, extends down to, or a little above, the infracostal plane, about 2 in. above the umbilicus. The lesser curvature and the adjacent part of the anterior wall of the stomach are overlapped by the lower margin of the liver. Overlying the stomach is an important surface area known to clinicians as the semilunar space of Traube. This space, which yields a deeply tympanitic note on percussion, is bounded above by the lower margin of the left lung; below", Tjy the left costal margin; to the right, by the lower edge of the left lobe of the li\er: behind and to the left, by the anterior l)order and anterior basal angle of the spleen. The line of the costo-diaphragmatic pleural reflexion crosses the space about mid- way between its upper and lower limits. The tympanitic area of the space is diminished superiorly by pleuritic effusion, towards the right by enlargement of the liver, and towards the left l)y enlargement of the spleen. Perforation of an ulcer on the anterior wall of the stomach leads to extravasa- tion into the greater sac of the peritoneum, wliile if the perforated ulcer be upon the posterior wall, extravasation takes place into the lesser sac. The close relation of the splenic artery and its branches to the posterior wall of the stomach explains the severe htemorrhage whicli is sometimes caused by a posterior gastric ulcer. The surgeon may reach the posterior wall of the stomach through the gastro-colic omentum, or, after throwing upwards the great omentum and transA'erse colon, l)y traversing the transverse mesocolon ; })y the former route the posterior wall of the stomach is reached through the anterior wall of the lesser sac, in the latter case through its posterior wall. Duodenum.—The first part of the diu)denum, situated in the right lialf of the epigastrium, lies ])eliind the eighth costal cartilage, immediately internal to the gall-bladder, and is overlapped by the quadrate lobe of the liver. li' the finger be passed above this part of the duodenum ami towards the left, behind the right free border of the lesser omentum, it will occupy tlie foramen of Winslow, which is