80 OSTEOLOGY. but the eleventh occasionally displays the same arrangement, in which case it is not always easy to distinguish between them. Lumbar Vertebra. Spine Inferior articular process Mammillary process Body Superior articularjprocess The lumbar vertebrae (vertebrte lumbales), five in number, are the largest of the movable vertebne. They have no costal articular facets, nor are their trans- verse processes pierced by a foramen. In this way they can be readily dis- tinguished from the mem- bers of the cervical and thoracic series. The body is kidney- shaped in outline, and of large size. The transverse diameter is usually about a half greater than the antero - posterior width. The anterior thickness is slightly greater than the posterior, being thus adapted to the anterior convex curve of the column in this region. The pedicles, directed horizontally backwards, are short and stout; the superior notches are shallow, but deeper than in the dorsal region; the inferior grooves are deep. The laminae are broad, and nearly vertical, sloping but slightly. They support on their lower margins the inferior articular pro- cesses. The spinal foramen is large and triangular. The spinous processes, "spatula shaped, with a thickened posterior margin, project backwards and slightly downwards. The transverse processes, more slender than in the dorsal region, pass hori- zontally outwards, with a slight backward inclina- tion. Arising from the junction of the pedicles with the laminte in tlie higher menibers of the series, they tend to advance so as to become fused with the outer side of the pedicle and back of the body in the two lower lumbar vertebr;c. In these latter vertebne tlie superior intervertebral groove is carried obliquely across the upper surface of the base of the transverse process. The transverse processes lie in line with the external tubercles of the lower thoracic vertebrje, with which they are serially homologous, and are to be regarded as representing the costal element. Placed on their base posteriorly, and just external to and below the superior articular processes, are the small accessory tubercles (processus accessorii) which are in series with the inferior tubercles of the lower thoracic vertebrae. The ■Maniinillary process Transverse process Fig. 61. Inferior articular process -Thuid Lumbar Vertebra from Above, and from the Left Side.