983 THE THARYNX. Tlie chamlier of the naso-pliarynx is irregular in shape, and is enclosed l)y six vjalls—namely, antei'ior, posterior, two lateral, and a floor—together with a roof or vault formed above by the approximation of the anterior and posterior walls. The anterior umll, which slopes upwards and backwards, is entirely occupied liy the two posterior nares, with tlie nasal septum lietween them (Fig. 660). The posterior wall is inclined upwards and forwards, and forms the vault of the pharynx (fornix pharyngis) above by meeting the anterior wall at a rounded angle. On the upper part of the posterior wall, at and above the level of the Eustachian orifices, there is seen, particularly in early life, a considerable accumulation of lymphoid tissue, associated with a thickened and folded condition of the mucous membrane in the child. This is the pharyngeal tonsil (tonsilla pharyngea. Figs. 661 and 662). In old age it l)ecomes very indistinct, or completely disappears ; whilst in the child it is often increased in size, and f)Ccasionally, when greatly liypertrophied, blocks up the naso-pharynx almost completely. Iti connexion with the lower part of the pharyngeal tonsil, there is found, constantly in the cliild and occasionally in the adult, a small median recess which runs upwards and backwards in the wall of the pharyn.x for some distance, and is known as the bursa pharyngea (Fig. 661). Three leading views are held as to the nature of tlie bursa pharyngea, namely— 1. That it is the remains of Rathke's pouch, from which the anterior lobe of the pituitary body is formed. 2. That it is a crypt connected with the formation of the pharyngeal tonsil. 3. That it is an independent outgrowth of the mucous membrane. The last view is perhaps most generally accepted. The Jioor of the naso-pharynx is formed by the upper surface of the soft palate (Fig. 661), which in its anterior part is a direct continuation backwards of the floor of the nasal cavity, whilst posteriorly it slopes strongly downwards and backwards. Between the floor and the posterior wall is left the aperture referred to above as the pharyngeal isthmus, through which the naso-pharynx communicates with the rest of the pharyngeal cavity. By the action of the palatal muscles the floor can Ije raised or depressed, and these changes of position are accompanied by corre- sponding alterations in the size and shape of the cavity. Each lateral wall of the naso-pharynx (Fig. 661) is occupied in the greater part of its extent by the opening of the Eustachian tulie, behind which is seen a vertical slit-like depression leading into a recess, the lateral recess of the pharynx, or fossa of Rosenmiiller. The pharyngeal orifice of the Eustachian tube (ostium pharyngeum) is a con- sideraljle opening, usually of a somewhat triangular form, with a characteristic infundibular or funnel-like appearance (Fig. 661). It is bounded above and behind l)y a prominent rounded ridge, the Eustachian cushion (torus tuberins). This ridge is due to tlie projection of the cartilage, which surrounds the Eustachian passage al)Ove and ))ehind, l)ut is aljsenl, below and in front. The prominence of the posterior, as contrastetl with the anterior margin of the orifice, and the direction of the iwhe itself, which runs strongly forwards as well as inwards (traced from the tympanum), greatly facilitate the introduction of a Eustachian catheter. The exact position of the orifice is of importance in connection with this latter operation. It is situated on the side-wall of the naso-pharynx, a short distance (al)out \ to h inch) behind the posterior end of the inferior turbinated lione, and inuuediately alune the level of the hard palate (Figs. 661 and 662). A slight ridge of the niTicous raenibrane descends from the lower end of the Eustacliian cushitm on tlie side-wall of the pliarynx, and gradually becomes lost. This is known as the salpingo-pharyngeal fold (plica salpingo-pharyngea). Another less developed ridge, the salpingo palatine fold (plica salpingo-palatina), passes fi'om the anterior border of the Eustachian orifice downwards and forwards to join the palate. In front of the latter lies an indistinct groove, the naso pharyngeal groove, which indicates the separation of the nasal cavity from the naso-pharynx. The levator palati muscle in descending runs parallel to the Eustachian tube, and along its Igvver border, As it enters the palate, it produces, particularly when in a state of