MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NEKVE. 609 hallucis muscles, to the front of the leg. In its course down the leg it is deeply placed upon the interosseous membrane and the lower part of the tibia in company with the anterior tibial artery. At the ankle it lies beneath the anterior annular ligament and the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis, and crossing over the ankle-joint, it divides on the dorsum of the foot into its terminal 1 )rauches. 1. Collateral Branches (in the leg).—These are given off to the muscles between which the anterior tibial nerve passes: tibialis anticus, extensor proprius hallucis, extensor longus digitorum, and peroneus tertius. A fine articular branch supplies the ankle-joint. 2. Terminal Branches (in the foot).—The terminal branches are internal and external. The internal branch passes along the dorsum of the foot on the outer side of the dorsalis pedis artery to the first interosseous space, where it divides into two dorsal digital branches for the supply of the skin of the outer side of the great toe and the inner side of the second toe. Each of these branches communicates with branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. It gives off one or two dorsal interosseous tranches, which supply the inner tarso-metatarsal and metatarso-phalangeal articulations, and also enter the first dorsal interosseous muscle. The external branch passes outwards over the tarsus beneath the extensor brevis digitorum, and ends in a gangli- form enlargement (similar to the gangliform enlargement on the posterior interosseoiis nerve at the back of the wrist). From this enlargement muscular branches arise for the supply of the extensor brevis digitorum, along with branches for the tarsal, tarso-metatarsal, and metatarso-phalangeal articulations. Its dorsal interosseous hranches may be as many as four in number. Of these the outer two, ex- tremely small, may only reach the tarso-metatarsal articu- lations. The inner two are fine hranches, which, besides supplying the articulations, may give branches to the second and third dorsal interosseous muscles. The branches from the anterior tibial nerve to the interosseous muscles are probably sensory, the motor supply of these muscles being certainly derived from the external plantar nerve. MuSCULO-CUTANEOUS NeRVE. Fig. 443.—Distribution of Cutaneous Nerves on THE Dorsum of the Foot. M.O, Musculo - cutaneous nerve ; A.T, Anterior tibial nerve ; B.S, External sa- jjhenous nerve. The ex- tremities of the toe.s are supplied by the plantar nerves (I.P,'e.P). The musculo-cutaneous nerve (n. peronaeus Superficialis), I.S, internal saphenous nerve; tire last of the branches of the peroneal nerve, passes below the head of the fibula and beneath the upper fibres of the peroneus longus muscle. Lying in a sheath in the intermuscular septum, between the peronei externally and the extensor longus digitorum internally, it proceeds downwards' in front of the fil^ula to the lower third of the leg, where it pierces the deep fascia in two branches, internal and external. Its branches are: (1) collateral muscular branches distributed to the peronei muscles, longus and brevis, as the nerve lies in relation to them; (2) terminal cutaneous branches, internal and external. The internal terminal branch courses downwards over the anterior annular liga- ment of the ankle, and after supplying offsets to the lower third of the leg and dorsum of the foot, divides into three branches. (1) The most internal supplies the skin of the dorsum of the foot and the inner side of the great toe, and communicates with the internal saphenous nerve. (2) The middle bi'anch passes to the interval between the great toe and the second, and divides into two branches which com- municate with the internal branch of the anterior tibial nerve. (3) The external branch passes to the interval between the second and third toes, and divides into two digital branches to supply the adjacent sides of these toes. 39