THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 776 the chorioidiil fissure, and, after entering the posterior part of the velum interpositum, end in the chorioid plexus in the body of the lateral ventricle and the upper j^firt of its descending cornu. (B) Cortical.—(l^) The anterior temporal, frequently a single branch of variable size, is not uncommonly replaced by several small branches. It supplies the anterior parts of the uncinate and the occipito-temporal convolutions. (6^) The posterior temporal is a larger branch than the anterioi-. It supplies the posterior part of the uncinate gyrus, the greater part of the occipito-temporal convolution, and the lingual lobule. {h") The calcarine branch is the continuation of the posterior cerebi'al ai'tery along the calcarine fissui'e. It supplies the cuneate lobe, the lingual lobule, and the posterior part of the outer surface of the occipital lobe. {¥) The parieto-occipital branch, smaller than the calcarine, passes along the corresponding fissure to the cnneus and precuneus. Circle of Willis.—The cerebral arteries of opposite sides are intimately con- nected together at the base of the brain by anastomosing channels. Thus tlie two anterior cerebral arteries are connected with one another by the anterior communicating artery, whilst the two posterior cerebrals are in continuity through the basilar artery from which they rise. There is also a free anastomosis on each side between the carotid system of cerebral arteries and the vertebral system by means of the posterior communicating arteries, which connect the internal carotid trunks and posterior cerebral arteries. The vessels referred to form the so-called circle of Willis (circulus arteriosus [WiUisi]). This is situated at the base of the brain, in the region of the inter- peduncular space, and encloses the following structures: the posterior perforated space, the corpora albieantia, the tuber cinereum, the infundilnilum, and the optic commissure. The " circle" is irregularly polygonal in outline, and is formed posteriorly by the termination of the basilar and by the two posterior cerebral arteries, postero-laterally by the posterior communicating arteries and the internal carotids, antero-laterally by the anterior cerebral arteries, and in front by the anterior commxmicating artery. It is stated that this free anastomosis equalises the flow of blood to the various parts of the cerebrum, and pi'ovides for tlie continuation of a regular blood-supply if one or more of the main trunks of the basal vessels should lie obstructed. AKTEEIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The main arterial stem of each upper extremity passes through the root of the neck, traverses the axillary space, and is continued through the upper arm to the forearm. In the latter it only runs a short distance, terminating just below the bend of the elbow by bifurcating into the radial and ulnar arteries which descend through the forearm to the hand. That portion of the common trunk which lies in the root of the neck is known as the subclavian artery, the part in the axillary space is termed the axillary artery, whilst the remaining part is called the brachial artery. THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. On the right side the subclavian artery (a. subclavia, Figs. 552 and 554) com- mences at the termination of the innominate artery behind the sterno-clavicular articidation, whilst that on the left side arises from the arch of the aorta behind the lower part of the manubrium sterni. The right artery is about three inches long (75 mm.), and it lies in the root of the neck. The left artery is about four inches (100 mm.) long, and is situated not only in the root of the neck, l)ut also in the superior mediastinal part of the thorax. In the root of the neck each artery arches outwards across the apex of the lung and behind the anterior scalene muscle, and is divided into three parts, which lie respectively to the inner side, behind, and to the outer side of the muscle. The extent to which the arch rises above the level of the clavicle varies considerably, and not uncommonly it reaches the level of the lower "[lart of the thyroid body.