737 STKUCTURE OF VEINS. tissue, aud are more or less connected with it by fine strands of fibrillated con- nective tissue. Structure of veins.—The walls of veins are similar in structure to those of arteries; they are, however, thinner, so much so that, although veins are cylindrical tubes when full of blood, they collapse when empty and their lumina almost disappear. The structural details of the three coats vary somewhat in different veins; in most the inner coat is marked by folds which constitute valves. Like the arteries, the veins are enclosed in connective tissue sheaths. The inner coat (tunica intima).—In the majority of the veins the inner coat includes an internal endothelial layer, a middle layer of sub-endothelial connective tissue, and an outer layer of elastic tissue. The inner coat of a vein is less brittle than the inner coat of an artery, and is more easily peeled off from the middle coat. The sub-endothehal tissue is a fine fibriUated connective tissue, less abundant than in the arteries, and indeed in many cases it is absent. The elastic layer consists of lamellae of elastic fibres which are arranged longitudinally, and it rarely forms a fenestrated membrane. One of the chief peculiarities of the inner coat is the presence of folds of its substance which con- stitute valves. The valves are of semilunar shape, and they are usually arranged in pairs. Their convex borders are continuous with the vessel wall, and their free borders are turned towards the heart'; whilst, therefore, they do not interfere with the free flow of blood onwards, they prevent any backward flow towards the periphery, and they help to sustain the column of blood in all vessels in which there is an upward flow. Each valve consists of a fold of the inner or endothehal layer, strengthened by a little connective tissue. As a general rule, the waU of the vein is dilated above each valve into a shallow pouch or sinus; consequently, when the veins are distended they assume a nodulated appearance. The middle coat (tunica media) is much thinner than the corresponding coat of an artery, and it contains a smaller amount of muscular and a larger amount of ordinary connective tissue; indeed, so much does the latter preponderate that it separates the muscular fibres into a number of bands isolated from each other by strands of connective tissue, and the muscle fibres do not form a continuous layer. In some of the veins the more internal muscular fibres do not retain the transverse ■direction which is usually met with both in arteries and veins; on the contrary, they run longitudinally. This condition is met with in the branches of the mesenteric veins, in the femoral and iliac veins, and in the umbilical veins. The middle coat is absent in the thoracic part of the inferior vena cava; it is but slightly developed in many of the larger veins, whilst in the jugular veins its muscular tissue is very smaU in amount. The external coat (tunica externa).—This coat consists of white fibrous and elastic tissue. In many of the larger veins a considerable amount of muscular tissue is also present; this is the case in the iliac and axiUary veins, the abdominal part of the inferior vena cava, the azygos veins, and in the renal, spermatic, splenic, superior mesenteric, portal, and hepatic veins. The external coat is frequently thicker than the middle coat, and the two are not easily separ- able from one another. Vascular and Nervous Supply of arteries and veins.—Blood-vessels.—The walls of the blood-vessels are supplied by numerous small arteries, called vasa vasorum, which are distributed to the outer and middle coats. They arise either from the vessels they supply or from adjacent trunks, and after a short course enter the walls of the vessels in which they end. The blood is returned by corre- spondingly smaU veins. Lymphatics.—Although the cell spaces in the middle and inner coats may be 47 Fig. 544.—Transverse Section op THE Wall of a Vein. A, Tunica intima. B, Tunica media. C, Tunica externa.