199 THE CAKPUS. articulation with the scaphoid, and also for the attachment of the interosseous Its inner surface, of quadrilateral ligaments whicli connect it with that bone, form, is cartilage - covered for Os iiiagiuu]i-__j Trapezoid Trapeziiiiii Radius Radius Semilunar Fig. 141.—The Rkiht Scaphoid Bone. Os uiaiiuuiii articulation with the cuneiform, and the edge which separates this from the superior surface has attached to it the interosseous lioament which unites these two bones. The rough dorsal 7w?i- articular surface is much smaller than the palmar; by this means the front and back of the bone can readily be determined. The semi- lunar articulates with five bones — the scaphoid, the radius, the cuneiform, the unciform, and the OS magnum. Cuneiform or Pyramidal Bone (os triquetrum).—This bone may be recognised by the small oval or circular facet on its anterior surface for the pisiform. This is placed towards the lower part of the palmar surface, which is elsewhere rough for ligaments. The bone is placed obliquely, so that its surfaces cannot be accurately described as inferior, superior, etc.; but for convenience of description, the method already adopted is adhered to. The superior surface has a convex rhombic surface for articulation with the under °"" surface of the triangular hbro- cartilage in adduction of the hand, though ordinarily it does not appear to be in contact with that structure. To the ulnar side, of this it is rough for ligaments. The inferior surface is elongated and concavo-convex from without inwards ; here the bone articulates with the unci- form. The external surface, broader in front than behind, articulates with the semilunar. The inner surface, rounded and rough, is conliuent above and behind with the superior and dorsal aspects of the bone. The dorsal surface, rounded and smooth externally, is ridged and grooved internally for the attach- ment of ligaments. The cunei- form articulates with three bones, viz. the pisiform, the unciform, and the semilunar. The pisiform bone (os pisiforme), about the size and shape of a large pea, rests on the anterior surface of the fore end of the cuneiform, with which it articulates by an oval or circular facet on its dorsal aspect. The rounded mass of the rest of the bone is non-articular, and inclines downwards and outwards so as to overhang the articular facet in front and externally. The mass of the bone is usually separated from the articular surface by a small but distinct groove. Into the summit of the bone the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle is inserted, and here also the anterior annular ligament is attached. Trapezium (os multangulum inajus).—The trapezium is the outermost boneof the second row of the carpus. It may be readily recognised by the oval saddle-shaped Cuneiforiii Unciform Radius Fi(!. 142.—The Right Semilunar Bone.