THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1054 and hangs down in front of the intestines to a variable extent. When tlie abdomen is carefully opened without disturljing the viscera, it is rare to find the great omentum evenly spread over the front of the intestines. More commonly it is folded in Ijetween some of the coils of intestine, or tucked into the left hypochondrium; or perhaps it is carried upwards in front of the stomach by a distended transverse colon. It extends between the great curvature of the stomach above and the transverse colon Ijelow, not taking the shortest course from one of these to the other, Imt hanging down as a loose fold between the two. The lower part of the small sac is continued down within it (Fig. 707). The great omentum may be said to consist of two folds, each formed of two layers, one derived from each sac of the peritoneum. The anterior or descending fold l^egins at the great curvature of the stomach, where it is formed by the meeting of the two layers from the superior and inferior surfaces of that organ respectively; from this it descends to the lower l)order of the omentum, where, turning back upon itself (Fig. 707), it passes up as the posterior or ascending fold. This runs upwards until it meets the transverse colon ; here its two layers separate to enclose and cover that colon—and the omentum properly so called ceases. Its two layers, however, unite at the upper surface of the colon (Fig. 707) to form the transverse mesocolon, which is continued upwards and backwards to the anterior Ijorder of the pancreas. Here the layers of the transverse mesocolon again separate—the upper, derived from the small sac, running backwards and upwards over the upper surface of the pancreas to the posterior abdominal wall; the lower, derived from the great sac, passing downwards along the back of the abdomen, as already explained. The great oiuentuiu is continued to the right for a short distance (25 mm.) along the lower border of tlie duodeiuim. At the left-end it .shortens very much, and is directly continued into the gastro-splenic omentum ; the spleen, as it were, being introduced between the two layers instead of the colon. Functions of the Great Omentum.—Numerous uses have been assigned to tlie great omentum ; tlie chief seem to be : (1) To act as a movable packing material, capable of filling all temporarily-jjroduced spaces in the abdomen. (2) It jjrobably, to some extent, prevents the pas- sage of tlie small intestine ujj into the stomach chamber, and heljjs to keep them from getting entangled there. (3) It is a storehouse of fat. (4) It is said to be " the great protector against peritoneal infectious invasions." Being freely movable, it can pass to almost any part of the abdomen, and there " build up barriers of exudations to check infection " (Byron Robinson). Mr. Lockwood lias made the interesting observation (in connexion with the contents of herniae) that, in bodies under forty-five years of age, the omentum can rarely lie drawn down below the level of the pubic spine ; in older bodies the reverse is the rule. The gastro-splenic omentum is a short fold composed of two layers, the anterior or more superficial 1 )eing derived from the great sac, the posterior or deeper from the small sac (Fig. 709, A). It is attached Ijy one margin to the wide end of the stomach (just below the line of the great curvature), and by the other to the gastric surface of the spleen just in front of the hilus. Between its two layers the vasa brevia of the splenic artery pass from the spleen to the stomach. Below and in front, its layers are continued into the corresponding layers of the great omentum; above and behind, they separate at the " uncovered area " of the stomach (Fig. 710). Minor Folds of Peritoneum.—The phreno-colic ligament, passing from the splenic flexure of the colon to the diaphragm opposite the 10th or 11th ri])S, has been described in connexion with the splenic flexure. The mesentery of the appendix, and the folds and fossfe around the ileo-ctecal region, are included in the account of the cfecum, as are those around the duodenum in the description of that viscus. The lieno-renal and hepato-renal ligaments have been referred to incidentally above. Development of the Intestinal Canal and Peritoneum. As already explained on p. 31, when the embryo begins to take definite shape, and to be marked oti' from the general surface of the blastodermic vesicle by an infoldiiig of its margins—residtin^- in the formation of the cephalic or head fold, the caudal or tail fold, and the lateral folds—a portion of the cavity of the vesicle is cut off by these folds, and more or less completely enclosed within the body of the embryo, to form the primitive alimentary canal. This is simply an imperfect tubular cavity, situated beneath the