SUP.THALAMIC TEGMENTAL REGION. 505 The red nucleus is a conspicuous object in sections through the lower part of this region. It presents the same appearance as lower down in the mesencephalon, and, gradually diminishing, it disappears before the level of the corpus mammillare is reached. Carried up around it are the same longitudinal tracts of fibres which have been studied in relation to it in the tegmental part of the mesencephalon. The fibres of the superior cerebellar peduncle, as they proceed upwards, form a coat- ing for it, which is distinctly thicker on its inner than on its outer surface. The mesial fillet, also, which in the upper part ©f the mesencephalon is observed to take up a position on the lateral and dorsal aspect of the red nucleus, maintains a similar position in the subthalamic region. When the red nucleus comes to an end these various fibres are continued onwards and form, in the position previously occupied by the nucleus, a very evident and dense mass of fibres. The fibres of the mesial fillet and of the superior cerebellar peduncle are prolonged upwards into the ventral part of the thalamus, where a certain number of them end in connexion with the thalamic cells. The remainder apparently proceed directly through the ganglionic mass into the internal capsule, and thus gain the hinder part of the Eolandic area of the cerebral cortex. The substantia nigra is likewise carried into the subthalamic region, where it maintains its original position on the dorsal aspect of the crusta of the crus cerebri. As it is traced iipwards, it is seen to gradually diminish in amount. It shrinks from within outwards, and finally disappears when the hinder part of the corpus mammillare is reached. In coronal sections through the subthalamic region, the most conspicuous object which comes into view is the corpus subthalamicum or the nucleus of Luys. It is a small mass of gray matter, shaped like a biconvex lens, which makes its appearance on the dorsal aspect of the crusta of the crus cerebri immedi- ately to the outer side of the sub- stantia nigra. At fii'st it lies in an angle, which is formed by the meeting of the crusta and the in- ternal capsule; Itut, rapidly en- larging in an in- ward direction, it takes the place of the diminishing substantia nigra on the dorsal sur- face of the crusta at the level of the lower part of the corpus mammil- lare. The corpus subthalamicum is rendered all the more evident by the fact that it is sharply defined by a thin capsule of white fibres. On its mesial aspect these fibres proceed inwards and form a very evident decussation across the middle line in the floor of the third ventricle, immediately above the hinder ends of the corpora mammillaria. Intersection of the corona radiata ami callosal systems ui' fibr( V r k \ Caurlate nucleus Corpus callosum Fornix An.terior nucleus of thalamus Stria niedullaris Internal capsule Internal nucleus of thalamus External nucleus of thalanuis Red nucleus Nucleus of IjU} s Substantia nigra Crusta of crus cerebri Kxtenial capsule Putamen Fronto-parietal operculum Ololius pallidiis Caudate nucleus Fig. 375.- -CoRONAL Section through the Cerebrum of an Orang passing THROUGH THE SUBTHALAMIC TEGMENTAL REGION.