863 THE TEEMINAL LYMPH VESSELS. sometimes the thoracic portion is Ijrokeii up into a series of anastomosing channels. The widest portion of the tube is usually the receptaculum, ]:)ut occasionally this dilatation is entirely absent. The duct is provided with several valves, formed by semilunar folds of the inner coat, arranged in pairs, and the most perfect of these is situated at the orifice of communication witli the innominate vein. Relations.—In the abdomen the receptacuhim chyli lies in front of the upper two lumbar vertebrEe, between the aorta on the left and the vena azygos major and the right ci'us of the diaphragm on the right. In the posterior mediastinimi it is separated from the vertebral column and the anterior common hgament, by tbe right aortic intercostal arteries and the transverse parts of the small azygos veins; it is covered in front in the lower part of its extent by the right pleural sac, and in the upper part by the oesophagus; to its right is the vena azygos major, and to its' left the descending aorta. In the superior mediastinum it passes forwards from the vertebral cohmin, and it is separated from the left longus colli nuiscle by a mass of fatty tissue; iu front of it, in the lower part of this region, is the terminal part of the arch of tbe aorta, and at a higher level the left subclavian artery. As the duct enters the root of the neck it passes behind the left common carotid artery, whilst to its right and somewhat in front is the a?sophagus, and to its left the left pleura. At the root of the neck it arches outwards above the apex of the pleural sac and the first part of the left subclavian artery. It passes in front of the vertebral artery and vein, the root of the inferior thyroid artery, the inner border of the scalemis anticus and the phrenic nerve, and behind the left carotid sheath and its contents. Tributaries.—The receptaculum chyli generally receives five tributaries. (1) The common intestinal lymphatic trunk (truncus intestinalis), which conveys lymph from the lower and anterior part of the liver, the stomach, tlie small intestine, the spleen, and the pancreas. (2) Two common lumbar lymphatic trunks (trunci lumbales), one on each side; they carry lymph from the lower extremities, from the deep portions of the abdonnnal and pelvic walls, the large intestine and the pelvic viscera, and from the kidneys and suprarenal capsules ; and (3) two descending lymphatic trunks, one on each side, each of which is formed by the efferent vessels from the corre- sponding lower intercostal glands; these descend to the receptaculum through the aortic opening of the diaphragm. In its course through the posterior mediastinum the thoracic duct receives efferents from some of the lower intercostal glands on the left side, a few from the upper and back part of the liver, and others from the posterior mediastinal glands. In the superior mediastinum the vessels which open into it are derived from the upper left intercostal glands, the left half of the heart and pericardium, and the left lung and pleura. It also receives some of the efferents of the superior mediastinal and sternal glands. At the root of the neck, just before its termination, it receives the efferents from the glands of the left upper extremity, which frequently unite to form a com- mon trunk (truncus subclavius), and the left common jugular lymphatic (truncus jugularis), wdaich conveys the lymph from the left side of the head and neck. Right Lymphatic Duct. — The right lymphatic duct (ductus lymphaticus dexter, Fig. 596) is a short trunk, from half to three-quarters of an inch (12 to 17 mm.) in length, which lies at the right side of the root of the neck along the inner border of the scalenus anticus. It is formed by the confluence of the right common jugular lymphatic vessel and the efferent vessels from the glands of the right upper extremity; it also receives efferents from the intercostal glands of the upper intercostal spaces on the right side and from the visceral thoracic glands on the right side. It thus receives lymph from the right side of the head and neck, the right upper limb and the right side of the trunk, including the upper part of the thoracic wall, the right lung and pleura, the right half of the heart and peri- cardium, the right side of the diaphragm, and the upper surface of the liver. • THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The lymphatic vessels of the head and neck form two groups, (1) the intracranial and (2) the extracranial. '