460 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. form the deep part of the restiform body and constitute its chief bulk. Streaming out from the hihim of the inferior oHvary nucleus, they cross the mesial plane, and on the opposite side of the medulla they either pass through the inferior olivary nucleus of that side or sweep around it. Ultimately, on the dorsal aspect of the olivary nucleus, they are gathered together in the form of a conspicuous group of arcuate fibres, which curve backwards to take up a position in the deep part of the restiform body. In passing back, they traverse the spinal root of the trigeminal DESCENDING NUCLEUS Fig. .343.—Diagram op the Cerebello-Olivary Fibres. (This diagram has been constructed from the specimen figured on page 458.) N.X., Vago-glossopharyngeal nucleus. N.XIL, Hypoglossal nucleus. • nerve and break it up into several separate bundles. The cerebello-olivary fibres thus connect the inferior olivary nucleus of one side with the opposite side of the cerebellum. Although we have traced the cerebello-olivary fibres in an upward direction from the-olive to the cereljellum, it is right to state that in all probability it is the great efferent tract of the inferior cerebellar peduncle. Its fibres are believed to arise in the cortex of tlie cerebellum (probably as the axons of the cells of Purkinje) and to descend in the inferior peduncle to estab- lish connexions with the cells of the olivary nucleus of the opposite side. The destination of the axons of the cells of the inferior olivary nucleus is not known with ceiitainty, but KoUiker con- siders that they enter the lateral column of the cord. Whilst this may be regarded as the generally accej)ted view of the cerebello-olivary fibres, it is right to mention that Klimotf, in his recent work on tlie cerebellum, maintains that they are aft'erent in their function, and not eff'erent. Arcuate Nucleus (nucleus arcuatus).—Immediately above the decussation of the pyramids, a small flattened mass of gray matter, covered by superficial arcuate fibres, makes its appearance on the ventral or superficial aspect of the pyramid (Fig. 338). At a higher level, when the open part of the medulla is reached, this gray mass shifts its position and comes to lie upon the mesial aspect of tlie pyramid, and thus constitutes the immediate boundary of the antero-median fissure (Fig. 341). From its intimate connexion with the anterior superficial arcuate fibres, as they sweep out from the antero-median fissure, it receives the name of the arcuate nucleus. The nerve-cells which lie in its midst are smaller than those of the inferior oli\'ary nucleus, and are fusiform in sliape. It would ajipear that large numbers of tlie anterior superficial arcuate fibres end in this nucleus, whilst others take origin within it. Many of the anterior arcuate fibres, however, sweep continuously over its surface and bind it down to the pyramid. At the upper end of tlie medulla the arcuate nucleus increases in size, and ultimately it becomes con- tinuous with the gray matter of the ventral part of the pons.