THE COMMON CAKOTID ARTEEIES. V57 thoracic course, and so far its relations call for separate consideration; whilst in the rest of its course it passes, like the right common carotid, upwards in the neck and has similar relations. Thoracic Portion of the Left Common Carotid.—The thoracic or mediastinal portion of the left common carotid artery (a. carotis communis sinistra) extends from the upper aspect of the aortic arch, a little behind and to the left of the origin of the innominate artery, to the left sterno-clavicular articulation, where the cervical portion commences. It is about one or one and a half inches in length (25 to 37 mm.), and it runs upwards and shghtly outwards through the upper part of the superior mediastinum, lying farther back than the innominate artery and, therefore, being more overlapped by pleura. Relations.—Posterior.—The vessel is in contact behind and from below upwards with the trachea, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, the oesophagus, and the thoracic duct. Anterior.—The left innomiuate vein runs obliquely across the front of the artery, upon which cardiac branches from the left vagus and sympathetic descend vertically. These structures, together with the remains of the thymus gland and the anterior margins of the left lung and pleura, separate the artery from the manubrium sterni, and from the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Lateral.—The innominate artery below and the trachea above are on the right side. The left pleura, and, on a posterior plane, the left phrenic and vagus nerves and the left subclavian artery are on its left side. Cervical Portion of the Left Common Carotid Artery.—The cervical part of the left common carotid artery is about three and a half inches long; it extends from the left sterno-clavicular articulation to the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage and the lower border of the third cervical vertebra, where it ends by dividing into the external and internal carotid arteries. Course.—-It runs upwards, outwards, and backwards; through the muscular and the lower part of the carotid divisions of the anterior triangle of the neck. In the lower part of its extent it is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the trachea and the oesophagus, and in the upper part by the relatively wide pharynx. Relations.—It is enclosed, together with the internal jugular vein and the vagus nerve, in a sheath of deep cervical fascia—the carotid sheath. Posterior.—The longus colli and scalenus anticus below and the rectus capitis anticus major above are separated from the posterior surface of the artery and sheath by the pre- vertebral fascia and the sympathetic cord. The inferior thyroid artery crosses close behind the vessel about the level of the first ring of the trachea; lower down the vertebral artery and the thoracic duct are posterior to it, and the vagus nerve lies behind and to its outer side. Anterior.—The descendens cervicis nerve descends superficial to the artery, usually out- side the sheath, but sometimes enclosed in it. Opposite the sixth cervical vertebra the omo-hyoid muscle and the sterno-mastoid branch of the superior thyroid artery cross the carotid artery, which is overlapped, above the omo-hyoid muscle, by the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and is frequently crossed by the superior thyroid vein. Below the omo- hyoid the artery is covered by the sterno-thyroid, the sterno-hyoid, and the sterno-mastoid muscles, and it may be overlapped by the lateral lobe of the thyroid body ; it is also crossed beneath the muscles by the middle thyroid vein, whilst occasionally a communication between the common facial and anterior jugular veins descends in front of the artery along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. Just above the sternum the anterior jugular vein is in front of the artery, but separated from it by the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles. Lateral.—The trachea and oesophagus, with the recurrent laryngeal nerve in the angle between them, are internal to the lower pai-t of the artery; the pharynx and larynx are internal to its upper part. The carotid gland lies immediately to the inner side of the termination of the artery. The internal jugular vein occupies the outer part of the carotid sheath, and lies to the outer side of the artery, which it also overlaps in front, especially in the lower part of its extent. Branches.—As a rule no branches are given off from either of the common carotid arteries except the terminal branches and some minute twigs from each to the correspond- ing carotid sheath and carotid body, i