973 STRUCTUEE OF THE TEETH. are flattened from side to side. The second molars of the upper jaw have four, those of the lower jaw five cusps each. In every case the second are much larger than the iirst molars. The cusps are sharper and are separated by deeper fissures or fossje than those of the per- manent teeth, whilst the roots of the milk molars, except for their greater divergence, agree with those of the permanent set. The marked constriction at the neck of tlie milk teeth (Fig. 656) is due to a great thickening of the caj) of enamel on the crown, and its abrupt termination as the neck is reached. Tlie enamel, too, is much whiter as a rule than in the per- manent teeth. It should he added that the labial surface of the canines and molars departs very markedly from the vertical; it slopes strongly inwards towards the moutli cavity as it approaches the grinding surface of the crown, which latter is, as a result, much reduced in width. The divergence of the fangs in the milk molars allows tlie crowns of the permanent premolars to fit in between them before the milk molars are shed. Structuke of the Teeth. As mentioned above, tlie teeth are composed of three special tissues, enamel, dentine, and crusta petrosa, in addition to the pulp which occupies the tooth cavity. The chief mass of the tooth is formed of dentine, which siuTOunds the pulp cavity and extends from crown to root; outside this is a covering of enamel on the crown, and a layer of crusta petrosa or cement on the root. The enamel (substantia adamantina) is the dense, white, glisteuhig layer which forms a cap, thickest over the cusps, for the portion of each tooth projecting above the gum (Fig. 649). At the neck it ceases gradually, being here slightly overlapped by the crusta petrosa. It is composed chiefly of phosjjhate and carbonate of lime (phosphate of calcium 89-82 j)ev cent, carbonate of calcium 4'37 per cent, magnesium phosphate 1'34 per cent, a trace of calcium fluoride, other salts '88 jier cent), and has generally been considered to contain about 3'6 per cent of organic substance; but this Tomes has recently shown to be inaccurate: "That which has heretofore been set down as organic matter is simply water combined with the lime salts. Enamel is to be regarded as an inorganic substance composed of lime salts, which have been dejjosited in particular patterns and formed imder the influence of organic tissues, which have themselves disappeared during its formation.'' "F^namel consists of calcified microscopic prisms (prismata adamantina), radiating from the surface of the dentine, on which their inner ends lie, to the surface of the crown, on which they terminate by free ends. These prisims are hexagonal in shape, solid, and of considerable length, for most of them reach from the dentine to the surface of the crown without interruption. • The prisms, which are calcified themselves, are held together by the smallest possible amount of calcified matrix (Tomes). In old teeth the cap of enamel is often worn away over the cusps, the dentine is then exposed, and is easily recognised by its yellowish colour, which contrasts strongly with the whiteness of the enamel. Whilst adjacent enamel prisms are in genei'al parallel to one another, they do not usually take a straight, but rather a wavy course, and in alternate layers they are often inclined in opposite dii'ections, thus giving rise to certain radial striations seen by reflected light (Schreger's lines). Certain other pigmented lines, more or less parallel to the surface, are also seen in the enamel (brown strias of Retzius). They are due to true pigmentation (Williams), and mark the lines of deposit of the enamel during its develop- ment. The enamel prisms are more or less tubular in certain animals—-viz. in all marsupials except the wombat, in the hyrax, certain insectivora, and certain rodents. 1st molar / 1st molar Fig. 656.—The Milk Teeth of the Left Side. The masticating surfaces of the two upper molars are shown above. In the second row the upper teeth are viewed from the outer or labial side. In the tliird row the lower teeth are shown in a similar manner ; and below are the masticating surfaces of the two lower molars. In the specimen from which the first upper molar was drawn the two outer or buccal cusps were not distinctly separated, as is often the case.