990 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. below this the cESophagus is crossed by the left l)ronchus (Fig. 666, C), and in the rest of its thoracic course it lies in the closest relation to the back of the pericardium. Behind, it rests on the longus colli muscle and tlie verteliral column in the upper part of the thorax; but below the bifurcation of the tracliea, as already explained, it advances into the cavity of the posterior mediastinum, and is soon separated from the spine )jy the vena azygos major, the thoracic duct, and in its lower part liy the aorta as well. On its left side lie the thoracic duct, the pleura, and the left subclavian artery in the upper part of the thorax ; the aorta in the middle region ; and lower down the pleura again, for a little way, before the (esophagus pierces the diaphragm. On the right side the tube comes into relation witli the arch of the azygos vein, whilst below this the pleura clothes it. The two pneuinogastric nerves, after forming the posterior pulmonary plexuses Ijehind the roots of the lungs, descend to the o'sopliagus, where tliey form, l>y unit- ing with one another and with the branches of the sympathetic, the plexus guise or oesophageal plexus. Lower down the left nerve winds rountl to the front, whilst the right turns to the back, and in this relation they pass with the tube through the diaphragm to reach the stomach. Relation of the Aorta to the (Esophagus.—Tlie aicli of the aorta, jjassiug Imck to reach the vertebral column, lies in relation to the left side of the oesojjhagus; ctnisequently the descending thoracic aorta lies at first to its left; lower down, however, as the aorta j)asses on to the front of the verteltral column, and the gullet inclines forwards and to the left, the (E.so])]iagus comes to lie at first in front, and then, as tlie diaphragm is approached, it lies not only in front, hut also .somewhat to the left of tlie artery (Figs. 665 and 666). Relation of the Thoracic Duct to the CEsophagus.—The thoracic duct, lying to the right of the aorta helovv, is not directly related to the ojsophagus (Fig. 666, E); but higher up (Fig. 666, D and E) it lies behind it. Aliout the level of the aortic arch the duct i)as.ses to the left, and above this (Fig. 666, B and A) will Ije found resting against the left side of the a3S0j)hagus, wliich it accompanies into the neck. Relation of the Pleural Sacs to the CEsophagus.—Above the level of the aortic arch and the arch of the vena azygos major, between which the tulie descends, the pleune, though not lying in immediate contact with the CESophagus, are separated from it only by a little connective tissue, and on the left side also, behind the suljclavian artery, by the thoracic duct (Fig. 666, B). Here, in thin bodies, the jjleura is very close to the ojsophagu.s, and the thoracic duct, lying on its left side, may occasionally be seen through the pleural mend>rane. Below the arch of the azygos vein the pleura clothes the right side of the CEsophagus—and very often even a con.sideral)le portion of its posterior surface too, thus forming a deep recess behind it—-aluiost as low down as the opening in the diaphragm. On the left side, below the level of the aortic arch, the pleui-a comes in contact with the gullet, only for a short distance, just above the diaphragm (Fig. 666, E). Divisions.—Both a diaphragmatic (Jonnesco) and an abdominal part of the oesophagus ai'e described. The diaphragmatic portion, said to be about half an inch in length (1 to 1-5 cju.), corresjionds to the 2)ortion of the tube which lies in the (Esophageal orifice (or canal) of the diaphragm. The jjlane of this orifice is very oblique or almost vertical, and its abdominal oi)ening looks forwards and to the left, and but little downwards. Above and in front, where it i.s bounded either l)y the j^osterior edge of the central tendon or by-a few decussating fibres of the muscular portion of the diaphragm, which meet behind the tendon, the CEsophageal orifice has practically no length, and consequently the cesophagus here jjasses into the abdominal cavity immediately after leaving the thorax. At the .sides and behind, on the other hand, the decus- sating bands from the two crura, which embrace the orifice, are so arranged that they turn a flat surface (not an edge) towards the opening, and thus, posteriorly and laterally, the orifice or canal is of some length; and on these aspects there is a jjortion of the tube in contact with the diaphragm for a distance of 1 to cm. But this contact takes place not around a horizontal line, but; in a very oblique plane corresponding to that of the orifice. On the whole, it is jjerliaps more satisfactory not to describe a separate diaphragmatic portion, but to say that tlu', ocsopliagiis pierces the diajjliragm very obliquely, and that at the sides and behind it is in contact with tlie walls of the orifice for a distance of half an inch or more. The oesophagus, in passing through the orifice, is connected to its boundaries by a considerable amount of strong connective tissue, but it is extremely difficult, or im})ossible, to demonstrate any direct naked-eye connexion between the oesophageal muscular fibres and those of the diapliragm. The anterior or right boundary of the oesophageal orifice, formed of filires derived from l)oth crura of the diapliragm, is strongly develo2)ed and prominent, and usually lies in the oesojjhageal groove, on the back of the left lolje of the liver, which groove is rarely due to the pressure of the oesophagus alone. The abdominal portion of the ce.soi)hagus is very short, for immediately after piercing the diaphragm the tube expands into the stomach. However, when the empty stomach is drawn foi'cibly downwards, a jjortion of the front and left side of the tulie, about half an inch in lengtli (1 to 1-5 cm.), is .seen, to which the above term is api)lied. This part is covered with peritotieiiiii, (k-rived IVom the great .sac in front and on the lef'l, whilst its right and posterior surfaces are