1U5 DEVELOPMENT OF THE UEOGENITAL ORGANS. Fig. 783.—The Organs. cells to form the future follicles (p. 1125). It is extremely doubtful if any new ova arise after birth. Generative Ducts.—As has been already stated, the male ducts arise from the Wolffian and the female from the Miillerian ducts of the embryo. Both sexes at first possess well-developed Wolffian and Miillerian dncts, which are arranged in a very definite manner. The W^olffian ducts communicating directly with the tubules of the mesonephros lie at first parallel to, and at a considerable distance from one another. As they pass backwards to the caudal end of the embryo they approach one another, and each becomes enclosed in a fold of peritoneum called the plica urogenitalis. The ducts, which soon become closely approximated to each other, are embedded in a cord- like mass of connective tissue, to which the term genital cord is applied. They finally open into the lower part of the anterior subdivision of the cloaca. The Miillerian ducts, opening freely into the body cavity at their cephalic ends, lie to the outer side of the Wolffian ducts. As they are traced caudally they cross the Wolffian ducts and enter the genital cord, within which they imite and form a canal, which occupies the mesial plane, and opens into the lower part of the anterior sub- division of the cloaca, between the Wolffian ducts. The manner in whicli the ureters become separated from the Wolffian ducts has already been described. Ducts in thee Male. — The seminal tubules of the testis become connected with the Wolffian duct by a fusion of the anterior canals of the mesonephros with the seminal tubules, ^t the place where this fusion -pccurs the rete testis and tubuli recti are formed. The connexion is definitely estab- lished in the third month. The number of tubules taking part varies considerably, but corre- sponds to the number of vasa efferentia found in the adult. The connecting tubules becoming much convoluted, just as they join the Wolffian duct, form the coni vas- culosi. The canal of the epi- didymis is directly formed from the anterior part of the Wolffian duct, and the vas deferens from the more posterior portion. The ductuli aberrantes and the rudimentary tubules of the organ of Girald^s are to be looked upon as per- sistent tubides, of a more posterior portion of the Wolffian body, which have failed to become connected with the tubules of tlie testis. The seminal vesicles wliich arise in the third month are developed as evaginations fi'om the Wolffian ducts, near their caudal extremities. From the part of tlie cloaca into wiiich the Wolffian ducts open the prostatic uretln-a of tlie adult is derived. The Miillerian ducts atrophy in the male embryo, but the hydatids of the epididymis and of the testis are rudimentary remains of their anterior portions, wliile the sinus pocularis rej^resents the lower fused portions which, in the embryo, occupy the genital cord. Ducts in the Female.—The Midlerian ducts in tlie female retain their openings into the body cavity, and their anterior portions become the Fallopian tubes. Their DKVELOniENT OF THE EXTEHNAL GENITAL From the models by Professor Ecker. A. Slit-like ectodermal cloaca o, bounded on eaoli side by an elevation, e. B. The genital enunence g, lies anterior-to the opening of the fossa ; s indicates the inner genital fold, to the outer side of which the labio-scrotal fold is seen. C. D. E. Female—after complete sexiaratiou of the rectum from the urogenital portion of the cloaoal fossa. The urogenital por- tion of the fossa is bounded on each side by the labium majus and the labium minus. Male—closing in of the urogenital portion of the ectodermal cloaca and of the groove on the sexual eminence to form the spongy portion of the urethra. Origin of the penis and scrotum. Female — the urogenital portion of the ectodermal cloaca remains open an<l forms the greater part of the urogenital cleft of the adult. a. Anus. e. Wall of cloacal fossa. <l. Genital eminence or glans. /. Lower limb. l.iiiiij. Lal>iuiii majus, I. m ill. Labium minus. 0. Opening of cloaca. r. Raphe. s. Inner geLital fold in B, and scro- tuiM or labio-scrotal fold in D. Sp.C: Umbilical cord. t. Tail. iig. Urogenital portion of cloaca or opening into it.