813 THE EXTERNAL ILIAC AETERY. either ou the outer or the inner side of the crural ring. In the latter case the artery may be injured in the operation for the relief of a strangulated femoral hernia. (2) The deep circumflex iliac artery (a. circumflexa ilium profunda Figs 569 and 572) springs from the outer side of the external iliac artery, usuaUy a httie below the deep epigastric, and im- mediately above Poupart's ligament. It runs outwards and upwards to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. In this part of its course it lies just above the lower border of Poupart's ligament, and is en- closed in a fibrous canal formed l:)y the union of the trans- versalis and iliac Kartoriu; Tensor fascia? feiiioris Rectus fenioris Psoas and iliacvis External cir faSCite. Opposite the cu.nHex artery anterior superior spine it pierces the trausversalis abdominis, and is continued back- wards between the transversalis and the internal obhque, to terminate by anastomosing with l)rauches of the ilio- lumbar artery. Branches. — («) Muscular to the upper parts of the sartorius and the tensor f asci<3e femoris, and to the muscles of the abdominal wall. One of the latter branches is fre- quently of consider- able size ; it pierces the transversalis muscle a short dis- tance in front of the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and ascends vertically be- tween the transver- salis and the internal oblique, anastomos First perforat- ing artery Second jjerfor- ating artery Vastus externus Vastus intenius Crureus Rectus feinoris - Pectineus Adductor brevis Couimon femoral "artery Adductor longus Internal circum- flex artery Superficial femoral artery Profunda artery Anastomotic artery Superior exte articular ar Anastomotic artery Superior internal articular artery Inferior internal articular artery Anterior tibial recurrent artery Fig. 573.—The Femoral Ahtery and its Branches ing with the lumbar and epigastric arteries, (h) Cutaneous branches pierce the internal and external oblique muscles. They terminate in the skin over the crest of the ilium, and they anastomose with the gluteal, the superficial circumflex iliac and the ilio-lumbar arteries,