532 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. presents no communication with the other ventricles of the brain. Indeed, the term " ventricle," as applied to it, is quite inappropriate, seeing that at no period in the development of the brain has it any connexion with the general ventricular system. It is usually stated tliat it represents a portion of the great longitudinal fissure, which has become cut off and walled round about by the growing com- missures of the hemispheres, but it is doulitful if this is the case (see p. 555). Lateral Ventricle. The cavity in tlie interior of the cerebral hemisphere is calletl the lateral ventricle. It is lined throughout by ependyma continuous with the ependymal lining of the third ventricle. In many places the walls of the cavity are in appo- sition, whilst in otlier localities spaces of varying capacity, and containing cerebro- spinal Huid, are left between the l)0unding walls. The lateral ventricle (ventriculus lateralis) communicates with the third ventricle of the brain by means of a small foramen, just large enough to admit a crow-quill, which is termed the foramen of Monro. This aperture is placed in front of the fore end of the optic thalamus and behind the anterior pillar of the fornix. The highly-irregular shape of the lateral ventricle can be best understood by the study of a cast of its interior (Figs. 394; and 379, p. 509). It is usual to describe it as being composed of a body and three horns, viz. an anterior, a posterior, and a descending horn. The anterior horn is that part of the cavity which lies in front of the foramen of Monro. The body is the por- tion of the ventricle which extends from the foramen of Monro to the splenium of the corpus callosum. At this point the posterior and descending liorns diverge from the hinder part of the body. The pos- terior horn curves backwards and inwards into the occipital lobe. It is very variable in its length and capacity. The descending horn proceeds with a bold sweep round the hinder end of the optic thalamus, and then tunnels in a forward and inward dix'ection through the temporal lobe towards the temporal pole. The early foetal lateral ventricle is very capa- cious and presents an arched or semilunar form. It is com- posed of parts which corre- spond to the anterior horn, the body, and the descending horn, and there is little or no de- marcation between them. The posterior horn is a later production. It comes into existence with the occipital lobe and is produced as a diverticulum or elongated pouch, which grows backwards from the upper and hinder part (i.e. the convexity) of the primitive cavity. Anterior Horn of the Lateral Ventricle (cornu anterius).—The anterior horn forms tlie foremost part of the cavity, and extends in a forward and outward direc- tion in the frontal lobe. When seen in coronal section it presents a triangular ¥us. 394.—Drawing taken from a Cast of the Ventrioolar System of the Brain, as seen from above (after Retzius). Vent. HI. Thiril ventricle. Vent. IV. Fourth ventricle. R. SP. Recessus suprapinealis.