1027 THE a^:CUM AND APPENDIX. or telescoping of the small into the large intestine : it must be added that the peritoneum and longitudinal muscular fibres of the bowel take no part in this infolding; on the contrary, they are stretched tightly across the crease produced on the exterior by the inversion, and thus serve to preserve the fold and the formation of the valve. As seen from the interior, in specimens which have Ijeen distended and dritd (Fig. 69.")), the valve is made up of two crescentic segments—an upper, in a more or less horizontal plane, forming the superior margin of the aperture; and a lower, which is also larger, placed in an oblique plane, and sloping upwards and inwards (i.e. towards the cavity of the caecum). Between the two segments is situated the slit-shaped opening, which runs in an almost antero - posterior direction, with a rounded anterior and a pointed posterior extremity (Fig. 693). At each end of the orifice the two segments of the valve meet, unite, and are then prolonged around the wall of the cavity as two prominent folds — the frenula (frenula valvultB coli). It is thought that when the caecum is distended, and its circum- ference thereby increased, these frenula are put on the stretch, and, pulling upon the two segments of the valve, they bring them into apposition, and effect the closure of the orifice. The position of the ileo-csecal orifice, in the average condition, may be indicated on the surface of the body by the point of intersection of the intertuliercular and Poupart lines. A point 1 to l i inches (2'5 to o'7 cm.) lower down would correspond to the orifice of the vermiform process. Ill bodies liardened in situ witli formalin, the valve and orifice present an entirely different appearance (see Fig. 694, in wliieli tliree different forms of liardened valves are shown), suggesting, much more closely than in the dried state, the ajipearance of telescoping or invei'sion mentioned above. In them also the two segments of the valve are much thicker and sliorter, but tliey can always be distinguished, and are found to liear the same relation to one another as in the dried condition, although this may be obscured Ijy foldings or ruga?. The aperture may be slit-like or rounded, with sloping or infundilmliform edges ; tlie frenula are not so pi'ominent at times ; but the whole valve projects much more abruptly into the cavity of the cajcum than in the distended and dried specimen. Structure of the Ileo-caecal Valve.—Each se}jment of the valve is formed of an infolding of all the coats of the gut, except the peritoneian and the longitudinal muscular fibres, and consequently it consists of two layers of mucous membrane, witli tlie sub- mucosa and the circular muscular fibres between, all of which are continuous with those of the ileum on the one hand and of the large intestine on the other. The surface of each segment turned towards the small intestine is covered with villi, and conforms in the structure of its mucous membrane to that of the ileum ; wliilst the mucous membrane of the ojaposite side resembles the mucous coat of the large bowel. In the dried specimen the upper segment usually projects further into the cavity of the cjecum than the lower, so that the aperture appears to he placed l)etween the edge of the lower segment and the under surface of the upper. There is little doubt, as pointed out by Symington, that the efficiency of the ileo-ctecal valve is largely due to the oblique manner in which the ileum enters or invaginates the ciBcum ; this oblique passage alone, as in the case of the ureter piercing the wall of the bladder, would probably be sufficient to prevent a return of the cajcal contents. In the gi'eat majority of cases, when in position within the l)ody, the ileum is perfectly protected from such a return, although when the parts are removed, and then distended witli fluid, this often passes through the valve, and reaches the small intestine. Still, the efliciency of such a test, applied when the parts are deprived of their natural supports, cannot be relied upon. The size of the segments of the valve, as seen in the dried condition, varies considerably ; they are sometimes very imperf has been recorded. But here again there is danger of falling the parts under such artificial conditions. Development of Caecum and Appendix.—The crecum first appears in the embryo, at about PERITONEUM LONGITUDINAL I Fig. 695. — Diaghammatic Section through the junction ok ileum with c^cum, to show the Formation op the Ileo-c;ecal Valve. ■ct; and even the absence of Ijoth into error, through examininof