718 THE OKGANS OF SENSE. cochlea. Moreover, the cavities of tiie utricle and saccule are indirectly connected, and thus all parts of tlie membranous labyrinth communicate with each other, and the contained endolymph is free to move from one portion to anoth'er. The vesti- bule, also, contains the ductus endolymphaticus and the commencement of the ductus cochlearis. The utricle (utriculus), the larger of the two sacs (Fig. 524), occupies the pos- tero-superior portion of the bony vestibule. Its highest part, or recessus utriculi, lies in the recessus ellipticus and receives the ampulla' of the superior and external membranous semicircular canals. Its central part receives on its lateral aspect the uou-ampullated end of the external canal, and is prolonged upwards and backwards as the sinus superior, into which the crus commune of the superior and posterior canals open. The ampulla of the posterior canal opens into its lower and inner part, or sinus inferior. The Hoor and anterior wall of the recessus utriculi are thickened to form the macula acustica utriculi, to which are distributed the utricular fibres of the auditory nerve. Whitish in colour, and of an oval or nearly rhombic sliape, this macula measures 3 mm. in length and 2";) mm. in its greatest breadth. The saccule (sacculus) occupies the recessus sphairicus, in the lower and fore- part of the vestibule (Fig. 522). Smaller than the utricle, it is of an oval shape and measures .") mm. in its longest, rind about 2 mm. in its shortest diameter. It presents anteriorly an oval, whitish thickening, the macula acustica sacculi. This has a breadth of about 1'5 mm., and to it are distributed the saccular fibres of the audi- tory nerve. The superior extremity of the saccule is directed upwards and back- wards, and forms the sinus utricularis sacculi, which abuts against, but does not fuse with, the wall of the utricle. From the lower ])art of the saccule a short canal, the ductus reuniens of Hensen, opens into the ductus cochlearis, a short distance in front of its vestibular or blind extremity. A second small channel, the ductus endolymphaticus, is continued from the posterior part of the saccule, and, passing between the utricle and the inner wall of the \'estibule, is' joined by a small canal, the ductus utriculosaccularis, which arises from the inner aspect of the utricle. It then enters and traverses the aqueductus vestibuli and ends, under the dura mater on the posterior surface of the petrous bone, in a blind extremity, termed the saccus endolymphaticus; this, according to Eiidinger, is perforated by minute foramina,- through which the endolymph may pass into the meningeal lymphatics. The vestibule also contains the blind extremity (cajcum vestibulare) of the ductus cochlearis, which lies immediately below the saccule in the recessus coch- learis of Keicliert; from here it passes forwards in^o the spiral tube of the cochlea. The walls of the utricle and saccule are composed of connective tissue which blends, along their attached surfaces, with the periosteal lining of the vestibule. It is modified internally to form a homogeneous membrana propria, which is covered by a layer of pavement epithelium and is thickened at the maculse acusticce. Towards the periphery of the macuUe the epithelium is cubical, while on them it is columnar. The structure of the maculae in the utricle 'and saccule is practically the same ; two kinds of cells are found, viz. (a) supporting cells, and (&) hair cells. The sup- porting cells are somewhat fusiform, each containing, near its middle, a nucleus. Their branched, deep extremities are attached to the membrana propria; their free ends lie between the hair cells and form a thin inner limiting cuticle. The hair cells are Hask-shaped and do not reach the membrana propria, but end in rounded extremities which lie between the supporting cells. Each contains, at its deepest part, a large nucleus, the rest of the cell being granular and pigmented. From the free end of each there projects a stiff hair-like process, which, on the application of Recessus utriculi Saccule Ampulla of superioi' .semicircular canal Ampulla of external canal Sinus superior Ductus utriculosaccularis -Sinus inferior Ductus reuniens Ductus endolyniiihaticus Ampulla of posterior canal Saccus endolymphaticus Fid. 524.—DiAiiUAMiMATit' Representation of the Difkehe:';t Parts of the Me.mbhanour Labyrinth.