GENEEAL EMBEYOLOGY. 38 Whilst the boundaries of the stomatodaeal space are l)eing defined, two oval depressions, lined with thickened epithelium, appear in its upper boundary on the lower and anterior surfaces of the fronto-nasal process; these are the olfactory pits or depressions. A portion of the epithelium of their walls is separated off and takes part in the formation of the olfactory bulbs, whilst the remainder is transformed into the olfactory epithelium, from which the olfactory nerve-fibres giow inwards to the olfactory bulbs. As the olfactory pits deepen they grow backwards into the roof of the stomatodteal space, and at the same time they separate the lower portion Cerebral hemispheres Olfactory pit Globular process Maxillary process Pituitary depression Trachea Ant. nasal orifice Globular process —^' Maxillary process Lower jaw ^ Olfactory pit ^Maxillary process Globular process Mouth Cerebral lieuiisphere Nasal cavity Jacobson's organ Globular process Maxillary process Lower jaw Moutli Fig. 30. I. Portion of the head and neck of a Ininian embrj^o 32 days old. The floor of the nioutli and pharynx and the ventral part of the anterior portion of the bod}' have been removed. By the approximation of the globular and maxillary processes the boundaries of the anterior nares are almost complete, but tlie olfactory pits still open in the whole of their lengths into the roof of the mouth (from His). II. Transverse section of the head of an embryo, showing the close apposition of the globular and maxillary processes. III. Head of human endiryo about 2 months old, showing the union of the globular processes and their fusion with the maxillary processes. The anteriornasal apertures are now completely defined (from His). IV. Transverse section of the head of an endiryo, showing the fusion of the maxillary processes with the globular processes, and the separation anteriorly of the nose from the mouth. of the fronto-nasal process into three parts, constituting a median and two lateral nasal processes. At each lateral angle of the median nasal process a spheroidal elevation, the globular process, appears. The part of the median nasal process wliich intervenes between the two globular processes is divided into two areas, an u])per triangular and a lower quadrilateral, by the appearance of a tranverse ridge, which is afterwards moulded into the tip of the nose. The upper triangular area becomes the dorsum of the nose, and the lower quadrilateral area forms the columella, i.e. the lower and anterior part of the septum between the anterior nasal apertures. The globular processes are utilised in the formation of the philtrum or middle part of the upper lip, and the lateral nasal processes form the aUc of the nose or lateral boundaries of the anterior nasal apertures. As tlie olfactory pits