THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 854 -Superficial epigastric vein Superficial circumflex iliac vein -Superficial pudie vein -Femoral vein -Long saplienous vein External snperlicial femoral vein Internal superficial femoral vein ,4 -Long saphenous vein Tributaries. — In addition to the venjE comites of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, it receives tributaries which correspond with the branches of the popliteal artery, and it also receives one of the superficial veins of the leg, viz. the external or short saphenous vein. The femoral vein (v. femoralis) is the direct continuation of the popliteal vein. It commences at the junction of tlie middle and lower thirds of the thiyh, at the opening in the- adductor magnus muscle. It then ascends through Hunter's canal, and through Scarpa's triangle, and terminates a little to the inner side of the middle of Poupar-t's ligament by becoming the external iliac vein. In Hunter's canal it lies behind, and at first to the outer side of, the femoral artery, and upon the adductors longus and magnus which separate it from the profunda vessels. In the lower part of Scarpa's triangle it is Iiehind and to the inner side of tlie artery, and immediately in front of the profunda vein which separates it from the profunda artery, l)ut in the upper part of Scarpa's triangle it is directly on the inner side of the femoral artery. About one and a-half inches below Poupart's ligament it enters tlie middle compartment of the femoral sheath, through wbicli it ascends to its \r J'fMlli, termination, lying between the compart- ment for the femoral artery on the outer side and the crural canal on the inner side. It usually contains two bicuspid valves, one near its termination and the other just above the entrance of its pro- funda tributary. Tributaries. — It receives tributaries (venae comites) which correspond with the branches of the femoral artery and the larger of the two superficial veins of the lower extremity, viz. the long saphenous vein, which enters the femoral vein where that vessel lies in the middle compartment of tlie femoral sheath. The external iliac vein (v. iliaca externa, Figs. 5G9, 572, and 587) is the- upward continuation of the femoral vein. It commences on the inner side of the termination of the external iliac artery, immediately behind Poupart's ligament, and ascends along the brim of the pelvis to a point opposite the lumbo-sacral articulation, and immediately behind the internal iliac artery, where it ends by joining the internal iliac vein to form the common iliac vein. It lies at first on the inner side of the external iliac artery, but on a somewhat posterior plane, and then directly behind the artery, whilst just before its termination it crosses the outer side of tlie internal iliac artery, and separates that vessel from the inner l)order of the psoas muscle. In its whole -Long saphenous vein -Dorsal venous arch Fi(!. 589.—The Internal or Long Saphenous Vein and its Tributaries.