783 THE AXILLAEY ARTERY. shoulder the axillary artery is curved over the head of the humerus, and the vein lies still more in front of it. For descriptive purposes the artery is divided into three parts; the first part lies above, the second behind, and the third part below the pectoralis minor muscle. Though we have followed the usual custom in describing three parts of the axillary artery, a division which is perhaps of practical interest in so far as it emphasises the fact that the axillary artery is surgically accessible above the pectoralis minor, it is to be noted that the upper border of the pectoralis minor is usually exactly opposite the outer border of the first rib, at the point where the axillary arten^" begins. In tlie strict sense, tlierefore, no part of the artery is above the pectoralis minor. Relations of the first part.—Posterior.—The first part of the artery is enclosed, together with the vein and the cords of the bi'achial plexus, in a prolongation of the cervical fascia known as the axillary sheath, behind which is the upper serration of the serratus magnus muscle, the contents of the first intercostal space, the internal anterior thoracic and the posterior thoracic nerves, the latter descending vertically between the artery and the serratus magnus. Anterior.—It is covered in front by the costo-coracoid membrane, the upper part of which splits to enclose the subclavius muscle. Tlie mem- brane intervene^ between the artery and the cephalic vein, the branches of the external anterior thoracic nerve, the branches of the acromio-tlioracic artery with their accom- panying veins, aiid the clavicular part of the pectoralis major muscle, superficial to which are the deep fascia, the platysma, the descending clavicular branches of the cei'vical plexus, and the superficial fascia and the skin. Behind the costo-coi'acoid membrane the artery is crossed by a loop of communication between the external and internal anterior thoracic nerves. Lateral.—Above and to the outer side ai-e the cords of the brachial plexus and the external anterior thoracic nerve. Below and to the inner side is the axillary vein, the internal anterior thoracic nerve intervening. Relations of the second part.—Posterior.-^-^ehiwdL this portion of the artery is the posterior cord of the brachial jDlexus and a layer of fascia which separates it from the subscajjularis muscle. Anterior.—In front is the pectoralis minor, and more superficially the pectoralis major, the fascite and skin. Lateral. — To the outer side lies the outer cord of the l)rachial plexus. On the inner side the inner cord of the plexus lies in close relation to the artery, and intervenes between it and the axillary vein. Relations of the third part.—Posterior. — The third part of the artery rests posteriorly upon the lower border of the subscapularis, the latissimus dorsi, and the teres major. It is sepai-ated from the fibres of the subscapularis by the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves, and from the latissimus dorsi and teres major by the musculo- spiral nerve alone. Anterior.—It is crossed in front by the inner head of the median nerve. In its upper half it lies under cover of the lower part of the pectoralis major, the fascia and skin, whilst its lower part, which is superficial, is covered by skin and fascia only. Lateral.—To the outer side lie the median and musculo cutaneous nerves and the coraco-brachialis muscle. To the inner side is the axillary vein. The two vessels are, however, separated by two of the chief branches of the inner cord of the brachial plexus. In the angle between the vein and the artery, and somewhat in front of the latter, lies the internal cutaneous nerve; in the angle behind is the ulnar nerve. The lesser internal cutaneous nerve lies internal to the vein, and the vense comites of the brachial artery ascend along the inner side, to terminate in the axillai'y vein at the lower border of,the subscapularis muscle. Branches of the Axillary Artery. (1) The superior thoracic (a. thoracalis suprema. Fig. 561), a small branch which arises from the first part of the axillary at the lower border of the sub- clavius. It runs downwards and inwards across the first intercostal space, pierces the inner part of the costo-coracoid membrane, and supplies branches to the sub- clavius, the pectoralis major and minor, and to the serratus magnus and the inter- costal muscles; it anastomoses with branches of the suprascapular, the internal mammary, and the acromio-thoracic arteries. (2) The acromio-thoracic (a. thoraco-acromialis. Fig. 561) arises near the upper border of the pectoralis minor, from the second part of the axillary artery. It is a