THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1038 When mev)ed from the, front the rectum is seen to be regularly i'olded from side to side in a zigzag fasliion, tlie folding l^eing slightly marked wlieu the rectum is empty, l)ut becoming much more distinct with distension (Figs. 702 and 703). In other words, when viewed from this aspect it presents, in the majority of cases, three more or less distinct lateral flexures or inflexions. Of these the upper and lower have their concavities directed to the left as a rule; the third flexure, wliich is the l)est marked, lies l)etween the other two, l)ut on the right side. Not infrequently, however, two are found on the right and one on the left side. The flexures, which are marked on the exterior by a crease, appear in the interior as three prominent Lateral inflexions Base of prostate Urellua Fru. 702.—Distended Rectum in situ. From a fornialin-hardeiietl male body, age 50. The peritoneum and extra peritoneal tissue liavu been removed, after sawing the pelvis along a plane passing through the upper part of tlie symphysis pubis in front and the lower part of the second sacral vertebra behind. The bladder, which was empty and contracted, has also been removed, but its form is shown by a dotted line. The rectum was very much distended, and almost completely occupied the pararectal fossfe. crescentic shelves (Fig. 704), known as the rectal valves, which help to support the fiecal contents when the rectum is distended (Fig. 702). Tills folding is iiiaiiitaiiiwl liy tlie arrangeiiient of tlie lougitiuliiial luusctilai' fibres, the majority of which are acctiiiuilated in tlie form of two wide hands, one on tlie front, the other on tlie hack of tlie howel. Tliese two hands, whicli are continuous with, and coniparahle in their functions to, the ttenite of the colon, are shorter than the other coats of the rectum ; lience they give rise, as in the case of the colon, to a folding or .sacculation of the tithe, which can l>e effective only at the sides where the longitudinal fibres are fewest, for the front and Ijack are occupied by the thickened longitudinal hands (see ]). 1042). In addition to siipjiorting tlie f;eces, these foldings greatly increase the caj^acity of the rectiini without unduly dilating the tttl )e. When the rectum is em])t v (Fig. 703) its course is comparatively straight, its lateral flexure being hut slightly marked, and its whole calibre very mucli reduced.