THE PALATE BONES. 137 consists of a horizontal and a vertical plate, united to each other like the limbs of the letter L. At their point of union there is an irregular outstanding process, called the tuberosity, whilst capping the summit of the vertical plate and separated by a deep cleft are two irregular pieces of bone, called the sphenoidal and orbital processes. The horizontal plate (pars horizontalis) has two surfaces and four borders. As its name implies, it is horizontal in position, and forms the posterior third of Sphenoid Orbital process Spheno- maxillary fossa Sphenoidal process"^^??~i; Etiimoid Irbital surface superior maxilla Orbital process Orbital surface Ethmoid bphenoid surface Maxillary, process Nasal crest- Horizontal plate Surface for attach. Surface Posterior palatine canal of pterygoideus for superior exteruus maxilla A Fig. 108.—Right Palate Bone. A, As seen from the Outer Side ; B, As viewed from the Inner Side. Ethmoidal crest Si)heno-palatine notch Inferior turbinated crest Inferior meatus Pterygoid fossa J Tuberosity Internal pterygoid plate Orbital process the hard palate. Its upper surface, which is smooth, is slightly conceive from side to side, and forms the floor of the hinder part of the nasal fossse. Its inferior surface, rougher, is directed towards the mouth, and near its posterior edge often displays a transverse ridge for the attachment of a part of the aponeurosis of the tensor palati muscle. The anterior border articulates by means of an irregular suture with the hinder edge of the palatal process of the superior maxilla. The posterior margin is free and concave from side to side; by its sharp edge it furnishes attachment to the aponeurosis of the soft palate. The internal border is upturned, and when it articulates with its fellow of the opposite side it forms superiorly a central crest continuous in front with the nasal crest of the superior maxilla; it supports the hinder part of the lower border of the vomer, and projecting be- yond the line of the posterior border forms the posterior nasal or palatine spine (spina nasalis posterior). The external border fuses with the vertical plate, form- ing with it a right angle. The hinder extremity of this edge is grooved by the lower end of the posterior palatine canal. The vertical plate (pars perpen- dicularis) is very much broader below than above. Composed of thin bone, it is liable to be broken in the process of dis- articulation, particularly at its upper part, so that it is somewhat uncommon to meet with a perfect specimen. It may be described as possessing two surfaces and four borders. Its inner surface, which is directed towards the cavity of the nose, is crossed horizontally about its middle by the inferior turbinated crest (crista Sphenoid Sphenoidal process Pterygo-palatine groove Middle meatus Inferior turbinated crest Inferior meatus Nasal crest Posterior nasal spine Horizontal plate For internal pterygoid plate Fig. 109.—Right Palate Bone. As seen from Behind.