734 THE SKIN OR INTEGUMENT. appears to bu lioinologous with a thin incmbi-aiie, termed the cjiitrkhiuin, first described ;is covering the embryo of the sloth and overlying its hairs, but since shown to be present in birds and mammals. Over the hairy jjarts of the body it ultimately disappears; but over the free edge and rf)ot of the nails, and on the palms and soles, it develoj)s into several layers of cells, which, in these parts, probably j)ersist to form the thick stratum corneum. The part which persists over the root of the nail is termed the eponychium, and covers the proximal part of the lunula i^tnch p. 731). The stratum lucidum is differentiated from the cells of the epitrichium, and, where the latter is lost, possibly forms the superficial layer of the epidermis as it does the horny part of the nails. Nails.—The first rudiment of the uails is seen about the beginning of the third month of enibiyonic life, and consists of a thickening of the epitrichium over the extremity of the digits. Owing to the growth of the palmar aspect of the digits, the nail rudiment comes to be placed dorsally, and, at its proximal edge, an ingrowth of the stratum mucosum occurs to form its root, while the future nail becomes limited behind and later- ally by a groove. The superficial cells of the stratum mucosum become keratinised to form a thick stratum lucidum, the future nail proper, over the greater part of which the epitrichium disappears. The latter persists in the adult as the eponychium, and, until the fifth month, also forms a thick mass over the extremity of the nail, and is continued into the stratum corneum over the end of the digit. The future distal edge of the nail, at this stage, is continuous with the stratum lucidum in front of it; but ultimately this continuity is lost and the edge becomes free. The nails grow in length, and are renewed, in case of removal, by a proliferation of the cells of the stratum mucosmu at the root of the nail, while an increase in their thickness takes place from the part of the same stratum which underlies the luntda. HairS-—Tiie hair rudiments appear about the third month of embryonic life as solid downgi-owths of the stratum mucosum, which pass obliquely into the subjacent corium. The deep end of this column of cells becomes expanded to form the hair bulb, and rests on a papilla derived from the corium, the epidermis immediately overlying which becomes differentiated into the hair and its inner root sheath, while the peripheral cells form its outer root sheath. The surrounding corium becomes condensed to form the fibrous sheath of the hair follicle, the hyaline layer of which is continuous with the basement membrane covering the corium. The hair gradually elongates, and, reaching the neck of the follicle, its extremity lies at first luider the epitrichium, but becomes free on the disappearance of the latter. This takes place about the fifth month, and the first crop of hairs constitutes the lamu/o, which is well developed by the seventh month. The lanugo consists of very delicate hairs, some of which are shed before, the remainder shortly after birth—the last to drop out being those of the eyelashes and scalp—and are replaced by stronger hairs. Shedding and renewal of the hairs take place dui'ing life, the renewal being of course absent in the case of baldness. Prior to the shedding of a hair, active growth and proliferation of the cells of the hair bulb cease and the papilla becomes atrophied, while the hair root, gradually approaching the surface, at last drops out. New hairs arise from epidermic buds, which extend downwards from the follicle, and their development is identical with that of the original bail's. Sebaceous Glands.—These appear about the fifth month as solid outgrowths from the sides of the hair follicles, and consist of epidermal offshoots continued from the cells of the outer root sheath. Their deep ends become enlarged and lobulated, to form the secreting part of the gland, while the narrow neck connecting this with the follicle forms its duct. The sebaceous secretion, together with the cast-off epidermal cells, is collected on the surface of the body during the last months of intrauterine life, and forms a layer of varying thickness, termed the vernix caseosa or smegma emhryonum. Sweat Glands.—These, like the hairs, arise as solid downgrowths of the stratum mucosum. They descend, however, perpendicularly, instead of obliquely, and are of a yellowish colour; they appear on the palms and soles early in the fifth month, but much later over the hairy parts of the body. The downgrowths extend through the corium, and, on reaching the subcutaneous tissue, become coiled up to form the secreting part of the gland. The lumen of the gland does not open on the surface until the seventh month.