FOEMATION OF THE PALATE. 39 deepen and grow backwards into the roof of the stomatodaeum the maxillary pro- cesses grow forwards from the lateral boundaries of that space, that is from the upper ends of the mandibular arches, and pass beneath the eyes, which now form distinct prominences on the sides of the head. The upper borders of the maxillary processes come into contact with the lateral nasal processes from which they are temporarily separated by grooves, the oculo-nasal sulci. These latter pass from the depressions round the eyeballs, the rudimentary conjunctival sacs, to the margins of the nasal pits. The anterior extremities of the maxillary processes impinge upon the globular processes, and ultimately their upper borders and anterior extremities fuse with the lateral nasal and globular processes completing the posterior bound- aries of the anterior nasal orifices, and the lateral parts of the primitive upper lip. At the same time the oculo-nasal sulci are converted into the lachrymal sacs and the nasal ducts, which henceforth constitute the channels of communication between the conjunctival sacs and the nose. The result of the ingrowth of the maxillary processes and their fusion with the lateral nasal and globular processes is the division of the large orifice which led into the stomatodseal space into three parts—a large lower, and two smaller upper aper- tures. The lower opening is the aperture of the mouth; it is bounded below by the Anterior nasal orifice • Ethmo-vomerine plate Pituitary depression Tongue Meckel's cartilage Fig. 31. I. Portion of the head of a human embryo about 2J months old (His). The lips are separated from the gums, and the line of the comniou dental germ is visible in the latter. The palatal processes are growing inwards from the maxillary processes. II. Transverse section of the head of an embryo after the fusion of the palatal processes of the maxillary pro- cesses with the nasal septum, which grows backwards from the fused globular processes. i< united mandibular arches, and above by the fused mesial nasal, and maxillary processes. The smaller upper openings are the anterior nares, which on their first formation are merely foramina of communication between the exterior and the upper part of the stomatodseal space; the latter is not yet separated into nasal and oral chambers. Formation of the Palate and the Separation of the Nasal and Buccal Cavities.—This separation is effected by the formation of the palate, which is developed to a slight extent by the backward growth of the globular processes along the roof of the space as a pair of ridges, termed the nasal laminse, which fuse together to form a small anterior portion of the palate, viz. the intermaxillary pro- cess, in which the intermaxillary parts of the superior maxillpe are formed. The remaining and greater part of the palate is formed by two ledge-like ingrowths, one from the inner surface of each maxillary process, which meet and fuse anteriorly with the intermaxillary process, and behind this with each other. In these pro- jections the palatal processes of the superior maxillte and the horizontal plates of the palate bones are formed, and by their fusion the upper part of the stomatodseal space is separated off from the remainder as a common nasal chamber which com- municates in front with the exterior by the anterior narial orifices, and behind with the pharyngeal portion of the fore-gut by the choanal apertures or posterior nares. The lower part of the stomatodseal space and the front part of the fore-gut together form the mouth or buccal cavity; this opens anteriorly by a transverse