THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 814 THE FEMORAL ARTERY. The femoral artery (a. femoralis, Figs. 573 and 574) continues the external ihae into the thigh. It commences at the lower border of Poupart's hgament, and, descending through the upper two-thirds of the thigh, terminates at the opening in the adductor magnus. Course.—Its general direction is indicated l)y a line drawn from the point of origin midway between the anterior superior spine of the ihum and the symphysis pubis to the adductor tubercle, the thigh being flexed and rotated outwards. In its upper half the femoral artery lies in Scarpa's triangle, and is comparatively superficial; at the apex of the triangle it passes beneath the sartorius, enters Hunter's canal, and is thus more deeply placed. At its entry into Scarpa's triangle both the artery and its vein are enclosed, for a distance of one and a quarter inches, in a funnel-shaped fascial sheath formed of the fascia transversalis in front and the iliac fascia behind. This is called the femoral sheath; it is divided by septa, running from front to back, into three compartments, the outer of which is occupied l>y the femoral artery and genito- crural nerve. The middle contains the femoral vein, and the internal compartment constitutes the crural canal. Relations.—In Scarpa's trianrjle the femoral artery is covered by skin and fascia, by superficial inguinal lymphatic glands and small superficial vessels. The anterior part of the femoral slieath and the cribriform fascia are in front of the upper part of the artery, and the fascia lata is in front of tlie lower part. Near the apex of the triangle the artery is crossed by the internal cutaneous nerve, and not infrequently by a tributary of the internal saphenous vein. Behind, it is in relation, from above downwards, with the posterior part of the femoral sheath, the pubic portion of the fascia lata and the psoas, the pectineus, and the upper part of the adductor longus muscles. The nerve to the pectineus passes between the artery and the jJsoas; the femoral vein and the jDrofunda artery and vein intervene between it and the pectineus, and the femoral vein also separates it fi'om the adductor longus. The femoral vein wliich lies behind the artery in the lower part of Scarpa's triangle passes to its inner side above, but is separated from the artery by the outer septum of the femoral sheath. On the outer side of the artery is the anterior crural nerve above ; lower down the internal saphenous nerve and the nerve to tiie vastus internus are continued on the outer side. The crural branch of the genito-crural nerve is in front and to the outer side above, and runs for a short distance in the femoral sheath. In Hunter's canal, the artery has behind it the adductor longus and the adductor magnus, whilst in front and to the outer side is the vastus internus. The femoral vein is also behind the artery, but lies to its outer side below and to its inner side above. Superficial to the artery is the fascial roof of the canal, upon which is the sub-sartorial plexus of nerves and the sartorius muscle. The internal or long saphenous nerve enters Hunter's canal with the artery, and runs first on its outer side, then in front, and lastly on its inner side. Branches.—The femoral artery gives off the following branches :— (1) Superficial branches. (a) The superficial external pudic. (h) The superficial epigastric. (c) The superficial circumflex iliac.- (2) Muscular. (3) The deep external pudic. (4) The profunda. (5) The anastomotica magna. (a) The superficial circumflex iliac (a. circumflexa ilium superiiciaLis) springs from the front of the femoral artery just below Poupart's ligament. It pierces the femoral sheath and the fascia lata, external to the saphenous opening, and runs in the superficial fascia as far as the anterior superior spine of the ilium. It supplies the outer set of inguinal glands and the skin of the groin, and it sends branches through the fascia lata which anastomose with the deep circumflex iliac and supply the upper parts of the sartorius and tensor fasciae femoris muscles. (6) The superficial epigastric artery (a. epigastrica superficialis) arises near