434 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. cerebellar tract, and, like it, next the surface of the lateral column. It is also an ascending tract, and it likewise (in part at least) ultimately reaches the cerebellum, although after leaving the cord it takes a different route to gain its destination. In transverse sections of the cord it presents a comma-shaped appearance, the thick part abutting against the direct cerebellar tract, and the narrower portion tapering forwards into the region of the emerging anterior nerve-roots. The tract of Gowers begins at a lower level in the cord than the direct cerebellar tract and it increases in volume as it is traced upwards. The fibres of this tract have probably their origin in the cells of the posterior horn of gray matter, but on this point there is at present no precise information. The crossed pyramidal tract (fasciculus cerebro-spinalis lateralis) is a large well- defined descending tract, which lies immediately in front of the posterior horn of gray matter and subjacent to the direct cerebellar tract, which shuts it out from the surface of the cord. Below the point where the direct cerebellar tract begins the crossed pyramidal tract becomes superficial, and in this position it can be traced as low as the fourth sacral nerve, at which level it ceases to exist as a distinct strand. The crossed pyramidal tract is composed of an admixture of both large and small fibres. These arise in the brain from the large pyramidal cells of the motor or Eolandic area of the cerebral cortex, and pass downwards through various subdivisions of the brain to gain the spinal cord. As they enter the cord they cross the mesial plane from one side to the other, and it thus happens that the crossed pyramidal tract in the right lateral column of the cord has its origin in the cortex of the left cerebral hemisphere, and vice versa. As the tract descends in the cord it gradually diminishes in size; and this is due to the fact that, as it traverses each spinal segment, numerous fibres leave it to enter the anterior horn of gray matter, and end in connexion with the ventral motor cells from which the fibres of the anterior nerve-roots arise. The entire strand is ultimately exhausted in this way. Numerous collateral fibrils spring from the pyramidal fibres, and, entering the gray matter, end in a similar manner, and in this way a single pyra- midal fibre may be connected with several spinal segments before it finally ends. The crossed pyramidal tract must be regarded as a great motor strand which brings the spinal motor apparatus under the control of the will. Schafifer believes that many of the pyramidal fibres end in connexion with the cells of Clarke's column. The lateral basis-bundle (fasciculus lateralis proprius) represents the remainder of the lateral column. Our information regarding it is still imperfect; but it would appear that its fibres are largely derived from the cells situated in all parts of the gray matter, and also from the nerve-cells of the opposite side of the cord. After a course of very varying length in the basis-bundle, these fibres turn inwards and re-enter the gray matter. Such fibres may thus be regarded as inter-segmental association fibres binding two or more segments of the cord together. Anterior Column of the Cord.—One well-defined tract is situated in the anterior column. This is termed the direct pyramidal tract. The remainder of the column receives the name of the anterior basis-bundle. The direct pyramidal tract (fasciculus cerebro-spinalis anterior) is usually a nerve-strand of small size which lies next the antero-median fissure. As a rule, it cannot be traced lower than the middle of the dorsal region of the cord. It is a descending tract and must be associated with the crossed pyramidal tract of the opposite side, seeing that both of these strands arise from the motor area of the cortex of the same cerebral hemisphere. From this, it nuist be clear that the direct pyramidal tract does not cross the mesial plane as it enters the cord, but descends on the side of the cord corresponding to the cerebral hemisphere in which it ai'ises. All the same its fibres do not end in the same side of the cord, but at every step along the path of the strand they make use of the anterior commissure and cross to the opposite side of the cord, to terminate in relation to the opposite ventral motor cells in the same manner as the crossed pyramidal fibres.