THE AETERIAL ARCHES OF THE WRIST AND HAND. 791 carpus, wlieve it unites with the posterior carpal branch of the radial to form the posterior carpal arch. (/') Profunda (ramus volaris profundus). — This branch descends between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, and, turning outwards beneath the fle.Kor brevis, the opponens minimi digiti, and the flexor tendons and their sheaths, joins the termination of the radial artery to complete the deep palmar arch. The Arterial Arches of the Wrist and Hand. Anterior Carpal Arch (Fig. 564). — The anterior carpal arch hes on the front of the carpus l)ehiiid the Bexor tendons and. their synovial sheaths. It is formed by the union of the anterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries, and it receives the communicating branch from the anterior interosseous artery above and recurrent branches from the deep palmar arch below. The branches of distriliution which pass from it are distril)uted to the ligaments and synovial membranes of the wrist and of the intercarpal and carpo-metacarpal joints. Posterior or Dorsal Carpal Arch (Fig. 565).—This arch lies on the posterior carpal ligaments under cover of the extensor tendons and their sheaths. It is formed 1 )y the union of the dorsal carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries, and receives the terminations of the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. Branches.—(«) Articular to the adjacent articulations, (b) Dorsal interosseous, two slender branches which run downwards on the third and fourth dorsal interosseous muscles to the clefts of the fingers, where each divides into collateral branches. They communicate near their origins with the deep palmar arch by the superior perforating arteries, and near their terminations with the palmar digital vessels through the inferior perforating arteries. Their collateral terminal branches run downwards on the dorso- lateral aspects of the fingers which bound the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and they anastomose with the collateral digital branches of the palmar digital arteries. Superficial Palmar Arch (arcus volaris superficialis, Fig. 563).—This arterial arch includes the terminal portion of the ulnar artery, and is usually completed externally by the. superficialis vo1;b, or sometimes by the radialis indicis, or the princeps poUicis. It extends from the ball of the little finger to the inner border of the superficial head of the flexor brevis pollicis, and' reaches as low down as a line drawn across the palm at the level of the lower border of the fully alxlucted thuml). It is covered by the integuments and the central portion of the palmar fascia, and, on the ulnar side of the palm, l;)y the palmaris brevis, and it is accompanied by venae comites. It is in contact behind with the flexor brevis and opponens minimi digiti, and with the digital branches of the ulnar and median nerves, as well as with the flexor tendons and the lumbrical muscles. Branches.—Four digital arteries (aa. digifales volares communes) arise from the convexity of the ai'ch. The innermost descends along the ulnar border of the little finger, accompanied by the internal digital branch of the ulnar nerve ; the outer three pass down- wards superficial to the digital nerves, along the middle of the three inner interosseous spaces towards the interdigital clefts, just above which each digital artery divides into two collateral digital arteries (aa. digitales volares proprite), which supply the contiguous sides of the fingers bounding the cleft. As the collateral digital branches descend along the sides of the fingers they lie superficial to the corresponding digital nerves, and supply branches to the joints, to the flexor tendons with their sheaths, and to the skin and subcutaneous tissues on the palmar surface; they also send backwards dorsal branches which anastomose with the dorsal digital arteries and supply the tissues on the dorsal aspects of the second and terminal phalanges. Some of the backwardly-directed branches form a plexus in the matrix of the nail. In the pulp of the fingei'-tips anasto- mosing twigs join to form arclies from which numerous branches are given off to the skin and subcutaneous fat. Each of the outer three digital arteries is joined immediately above its division by a palmar interosseous branch from the deep palmar arch and an inferior communicating artery from the dorsal interosseous. The innermost digital artery is joined by a brancii which comes either from the inner palmar intei'osseous artery or from the deep palmar arch.