132 OSTEOLOGY. As viewed from the outer side, the bone is convex from side to side and has four angles, of which three are prominent. These are the ascending or frontal (processus fronto-splienoidalis), the anterior or pointed extremity of the maxillary border, and the posterior or temporal (processus temporalis). The most elevated part of the conx'ex outer surface, (facies anterior) forms the malar tuberosity. The processus temporalis, sometimes called the zygomatic process, ends posteriorly in an oblique edge, which articulates with the extremity of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. The frontal, the most proniinent of its pi-ocesses, is united superiorly to the external angular process of the frontal bone. The edge between the frontal and temporal processes is thin and sharp; it affords attachment to the temporal fascia, and near its i;pper end there is usually a pronounced angle (processus marginalis), formed by a sudden change in the direc- tion of the line of the bone. It is just below this point that the temporal branch of the orbital nerve becomes cutaneous. The lower border of the temporal process is somewhat thicker and rounded; it extends downwards and forwards towards tlie inferior angle, where the bone articulates with the superior maxilla, and is then confluent with the ridge which separates the facial from the zygomatic aspect of Frontal process Frontal process A B Fig. 103.—Right M.\lar Bone. A, Outer Side ; B, Inner Side. the upper jaw. This edge of the bone is sometimes called the masseteric border since it affords attachment to the fibres of origin of the masseter muscle. Sweeping downwards in front of the frontal process is a curved edge which terminates inferiorly in a pointed process. This border forms the outer and, in part, the inferior margin of the orbital cavity. Between the anterior extremity of the masseteric edge and the pointed anterior angle there is an irregular suture by which the bone is joined to the maxilla. The opening of .the malar canal (foramen zygomatico-faciale) is seen on the outer surface of the bone; its size and position are very variable. The mesial aspect of the bone is distinguished by a curved elevated crest, called the orbital process, which extends inwards and backwards, and is confluent externally with the orbital margin. This process has two surfaces—one anterior, which forms a part of the outer and lower wall of the orbit, and one posterior, which is directed towards the temporal fossa above and the zygomatic fossa below. The free edge of the orbital process is thin and serrated; a little below its middle it is usually interrupted by a non-articular notch, whicli corresponds to the anterior extremity of the splieno-maxillary fissure. The part above this articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid, the portion below with the orl)ital plate of the superior maxilla. Beliiud the orljital process, the inner surface of the bone is concave from side to side, and extends backwards along the mesial aspect of the temporal process and upwards over the posterior half of the inner side of the frontal process, thus entering into the formation of the zygomatic and temporal fossee respectively. The orV)ital surface of the orbital process usually displays the openings of two canals (foramina zygomatico-orbitalia)—one whicli traverses the bone below the orbital margin and appears on the front of the bone as already described, the other