THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. 306 stratum, as iu the limbs, or from the fusion of segmental elements (myotomes), as in the case of the axial muscles; the peripheral nerves supplying skeletal muscles are distributed, through the plexuses or directly, so as to associate particular muscles morphologically and physiologically, and to secure a co-ordinated movement by the simultaneous contraction of several muscles together. Superficial Fascia.—The superficial fascia is a continuous sheet of areolar tissue which underlies the skin of the whole body. It is closely adherent to the cutis vera, and is sometimes termed panniculus adiposus, from the fact that, except beneath the skin of the eyelids, penis, and scrotum, it is always more or less impregnated with fat. It is traversed by the cutaneous vessels and nerves; and its deep surface, membranous in character, is in loose connexion with the subjacent deep fascia. Deep Fascia. — Underneath the skin and superficial 'fascia is a fibrous membrane, bluish-white in colour, devoid of fat, and in closest relation to skeleton, ligaments, and muscles. This is the deep fascia. It covers, invests, and in some cases forms the means of attachment of the various muscles. It has a special tendency to become attached to all subcutaneous bony prominences, and to be continuous with the connecting ligaments. It forms septal processes, which separate groups of muscles and individual muscles; enclose glands and viscera; and form sheaths for vessels and nerves. Around joints it gives rise to bands which strengthen the capsule or limit the mobility of the joint, or, as in the case of annular ligaments, bind down the tendons passing over the joint. It not only ensheathes vessels and nerves, but is also perforated by those which pass between superficial and deeper parts. The term aponeurosis is used in relation to muscles. It is synonymous with deep fascia, either as an investing fascia or as a membranous layer which {e.g. vertebral aponeurosis) performs at one and the same time the purpose of a deep fascia and the expanded membranous attachment of a muscle. Bursse.—Where a tendon passes over a bony surface, or where the superficial fascia and skin cover a bony prominence, there is generally formed a synovial sac, or bursa, containing fluid, for the purpose of lubricating the surface over which the tendon or fascia glides. Allied to these are the synovial sheaths which envelop tendons beneath the annular ligaments in relation to the several joints. Description of Muscles.—In studying the muscular system it is necessary to note the following characters in reference to each muscle:—(1) The shape of the muscle-—flat, cylindrical, triangular, rhomboidal, etc.—and the character of its extremities—membranous, tendinous, or fleshy. (2) The attachments of the muscle. The origin is the more fixed or central attachment: the insertion is the more mov- able or peripheral attachment. (3) The relations of the surfaces and borders of the muscle to bones, joints, other muscles, and other important structures. (4) Its vascular and nervous supply; and (5) its action. It must be borne in mind that hardly any single muscle acts alone. Each muscle, as a rule, forms one of a group acting more or less in harmony with, and antagonised by, other and opposite groups. The muscles of the body are separable histologically into two great divisions, according to the character of the muscle-cells. Striated muscle fibres constitute the whole of the skeletal muscles. Non-striated muscle fibres are characteristic of the muscular system of the viscera and vessels. The heart is composed of a striated muscular structure of a peculiar kind. Only the striated, skeletal muscles are described in this section. The skeletal muscles may be divided into two series: axial and appendicular. The axial muscles comprise the nmscles of the trunk, head, and face, including the panniculus carnosus (platysma myoides). These muscles are more or less segmental in arrangement, grouped around the axial skeleton. The appendicular muscles, the muscles of the limbs, are grouped around the appendicular skeleton. They are not definitely segmental in arrangement, are clearly separate from tlie axial muscles, and are arranged in definite strata in relation to the bones of the limbs.