THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. 344 from the contiguous margins of these vertebrae. It forms a slender fleshy helly, its margins blending with the fascia covering the psoas magnus, and is inserted by a narrow tendon into the middle of the ilio-pectineal line and the ilio-pectineal eminence. The iliacus muscle arises mainly from a horseshoe-shaped origin around the Vena caval openiiif; ffisopliageal opening Central tendon (niitUUe part) Diaphragm, rioht crds Idle arcuate ligament Aortic opening Central tendon (left part) Diaphragm, left Central tendon (right part)'-'-^^^^^^^^--— rinl, i r.. ,• / ""^^M^Jtrtf cbds Diaphragm, costal fibres Internal arcuate liganieni External arcuate ligament End of last rili Ijast thoracic nerve Ant. layer of lumbar fascia Lumbar fascia llio-liypogastric Lumbar vessels and synijia- thetic communicating nerves llio-inguinal QUADRATl'S LUMEORUM External cutaneous ner\ e Psoas magnui- Iliacus- Luiubo-.sacral cord Genito-crural nerve Anterior crural nerve Obturator nerve- Great sciatic nerve -„ f— Last thoracic nerve ffj^ End of last rib Lumbar nerve L _-l nio-hypogastric iiiJ Lumbar nerve II. llio-inguinal Quadratus lumborum Lumbar nerve III. Genito-crural 1^-—Lumbar nerve IV. Lumbo-sacral cord External cutaneous nerve Anterior crural nerve Obturator nerve Great sciatic nerve Fio. 253.- I Obturator nerve Adductor longus (origin) Adductor brevis (origin) Gracilis (origin) Adductor magnus (origin) Pectineus (cut) Sujierficial branch of obturator nerve Deep branch of obturator nerve Obturator externus' -View of the Posterior Abdominal Wall, to show the Muscles and the Nerves of THE Lumbo-Sacral Plexus. margin of the iliac fossa; it has an additional origin also from the anterior sacro- iliac and iho-lumbar ligaments. It is a fan-shaped muscle, its fibres passing down- wards over the liip-joiut towards the small trochanter of the femur. It is inserted (1) into the outer side of the tendon of the psoas; (2) into the concave anterior surface of the small trochanter; and (3), by its most external hbres, into the cap- sule of the hip-joint. These fibres are often separate, forming the iliacus minor, or ilio-capsularis. The .muscle occupies the false pelvis and Scarpa's triangle. It forms the liack wall of the false pelvis, covered anteriorly by the iliac fascia, and is