MEDIAN NEEVE. 585 elbow, between the biceps and brachio - radialis, and terminates in cutaneous branches for the supply of the outer side of the forearm. The branches of tlie nerve are muscular and cutaneous. The muscular branches are supplied to the two heads of the biceps and the brachialis anticus, as the nerve lies between the muscles. The nerve to the coraco-bracliialis (usually incorporated with the trunk of the niusciilo-cutaneous nerve) has an independent origin from the seventh cervical nerve. It is usually double, one branch entering each portion of the muscle. The cutaneous branches are anterior and posterior (Fig. 432, p. 586). The anterior branch descends along the front of the outer side of the forearm to the wrist, and supplies an area extending inwards to the middle line of the forearm anteriorly, and downwards so as to include the ball of the thumb. It communicates above the wrist with the radial nerve and supplies branches to the radial artery. The posterior branch passes backwards and downwards over the extensor muscles and supplies the skin on the outer aspect of the forearm posteriorly, in its upper three- fourths, communicating with the cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral nerve. In addition to the above branches, the musculo-cutaneous nerve supphes in many cases the following small twigs in the arm : (1) a medullary branch to the humerus; (2) a periosteal branch to the lower end of the humerus on its anterior surface; and (3) a branch to the brachial artery. Median Nerve. The median nerve (n. medianus) arises by two roots—one from the outer cord, the other from the inner cord of the brachial plexus. The outer head, from the (fifth), sixth, and seventh nerves, descends along the outer side of the axillary artery; the inner head, from the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves, crosses the end of the axillary artery or the beginning of the brachial artery, to join the other head at the upper part of the arm. Descending along the outer side of the brachial artery, the nerve crosses over it obliquely in the lower half of the arm. In the hollow of the elbow, it lies internal to the brachial artery, beneath the bicipital fascia and the median basilic vein. It passes into the forearm between the two heads of the pronator radii teres muscle, separated from the ulnar artery by the deep origin of that muscle. Extending down the middle of the forearm, between the superficial and deep muscles to the wrist, it enters the palm of tlie hand on the outer side of the flexor tendons of the fingers beneath the anterior annular ligament. In the hand it spreads out at the lower border of the annular ligament beneath the palmar fascia and superficial palmar arch, and separates into its six terminal branches. In the forearm a small artery accompanies it,—the comes nervi mediani. Above the wrist it is comparatively superficial, lying on the outer side of the flexor tendons and directly beneath the tendon of the palmaris longus. Communications.—(1) The median nerve, in some cases, receives a communicating branch from the musculo-cutaneous in the arm. (2) It communicates in some cases, in the upper part of the forearm, with the ulnar nerve beneath the flexor muscles. (3) It commvmicates by means of its cutaneous branches with the ulnar nerve in the palm of the hand. Branches.—'The median nerve usually gives off no branches in the upper arm. Branches in the Forearm.—(1) Articular Branches.—Minute articular fila- ments are distributed to the front of the elbow joint. (2) Muscular Branches.—Just below the elbow a bundle of nerves arise which is distributed to the following muscles : pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor sublimis digitorum. Nerves are also generally traceable from this bundle to the upper fibres of the flexor longus pollicis and flexor pro- fimdus digitorum. The nerve to the pronator radii teres often arises independently in the hollow of the elbow. (3) The anterior interosseous nerve arises from the back of the median nerve in the forearm, descends in front of the interosseous membrane along with the anterior interosseous artery, passes behind the pronator quadratus muscle, and terminates by supplying articular filaments to the radio-carpal articulation. In its course the nerve supplies muscular branches to the flexor longus pollicis, the outer