130 OSTEOLOGY. horizontal plane; it has two surfaces—upper and under—and three borders, a straight internal, a more or less straight posterior, and a curved external, by which latter it is attaclied to the inner side of the body and alveolar process as far Imck as the interval between the second and third molar teeth. Its under surface, together with that of its fellow, forms the anterior three-fourths of the vaulted hard palate; it is rough and pitted for the glands of the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth, and is grooved on either side near the alveolar margin by a channel which passes forward from the posterior palatine canal and transmits the great palatine nerve and descending palatine artery. Its suj^erior surface, smooth and concave from side to side, forms the floor of the corresponding nasal fossa. Its internal or mesial border, broad and serrated, rises in a ridge superiorly, so as to form with its fellow of the opposite side the nasal crest (crista nasalis), which is grooved superiorly to receive the lower border of the vomer. In front of its articulation with tlie vomer tliis ridge rises somewhat higher, being named the incisor crest, anterior to which it projects beyond the free border of the nasal notch, and together with its fellow forms the pointed projection called the anterior nasal spine (spina nasalis anterior). These parts support the septal cartilage of the nose. Immediately to the outer side of the incisor crest the superior surface of the palatal process is pierced by a foramen which leads downwards, forward, and a little inwards, to open into a broad groove on the mesial border of the bone immediately behind the central incisor tootli. When the two maxilhe are articulated, tlie two grooves form the oval anterior palatine canal or fossa, into which the two aforementioned foramina open like the limbs of a Y; these are called the incisor foramina or tlie foramina of Stenson, and contain the remains of Jacobson's organs. In front and behind these, and lying within the .fossa and in tlie line of the suture, are the smaller foramina of Scarpa, which transmit tlie naso-palatine nerves, the right nerve usually passing through the posterior foramen, the left through the anterior. The posterior harder of the palatal process, which is sharp and thin, falls in line with the interval between the second and third molar, and articulates with the horizontal plate of the palate bone. Tlie maxillary sinus or antrum of Highmore (sinus maxillaris) lies within the body of the bone, and is of corresponding pyramidal form, its base being directed 'towards the nasal fossa, with the middle meatus of which it communicates, its summit extending outwards into the root of the zygomatic process. It is closed in externally and above by the thin walls which form the facial, zygomatic, and orbital surfaces of the body. Inferiorly it overlies the alveolar process in which the molar teeth are implanted, the sockets of whicli are separated from it by a thin layer of bone. Advantage is taken of this circumstance to pierce the floor of the antrum in such conditions as necessitate its tliorough drainage, as its natural ovitlet into the middle meatus is of tlie nature of an overflow aperture, and so prevents purulent fluids, which may.here accumulate, from being readily discharged. The angles and corners of this cavity are frequently groined by narrow ridges of bone, and the interior is lined by an extension from the mucous membrane of the nose. Connexions.—The su2)erior maxillary bone articulates with tlie nasal, frontal, lachrymal, and ethmoid bones above, externally witli the malar, and occasionally with the splienoid, posteriorly and internally witli the jjalate, whilst on its inner side it unites with its fellow of the opposite side, and also sujjports the inferior turbinated bone and the vomer. Architecture.—The disposition of the maxillary sinus within the body of the bone has been already referred to. In union with its fellow, the vaulted arrangement of the hard palate is well displayed, and the arched arrangement of the superior alveolar processes is obvious. It is in these latter i)rocesses around the sockets for the reception of the teeth that the cancellous tissue of tlic bone is seen ; elsewhere its walls are formed by thin and dense bone. Variations.—Not unfrequently thei-e is a suture inmning vertically through the bar of l)one which separates the infraorbital foramen from the infraorbital margin. Througii imperfections in ossification the infraorbital canal may form an oijen groove along the floor of the orbit. Ossification,—The superior maxillfie are developed in the connective tissue around the oral aperture of the embryo. The centres from whicii the bone ossifies are not preceded by a cartilaginous stage. Their number is uncertain, as early fusion occurs