174 OSTEOLOGY. Obelion.—A point over the sagittal suture, on a line witli the parietal foramina. Lambda.—^The meeting-point of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures. Pterion.—The region of the antero-lateral fontanelle where the angles of the frontal, parietal, squamous temporal, and alisphenoid lie in relation to one another. As a rule, tlie sutures are arranged like the letter H, the parietal and alisphenoid separating the frontal from the stpuxmous temporal. In other cases the form of the suture is like an X ; whilst in a third variety the frontal and squamous temporal articulate with each other, thus sejjarating the alisphenoid from the parietal. Asterion is the region of the postero-lateral fontanelle where the lambdoid, parieto-mastoid, and occipito-mastoid sutures meet. Stephanion.—The point where the coronal suture crosses tlie temporal crest. Dacryon.—The point where the vertical lachrymo-maxillary .suture meets the fronto-nasal suture at the inner angle of the orbit. Jugal Point.—Corresponds to the angle between the vertical border and tlie margin of the zygomatic process of the malar bone. Gonion.—Tlie outer side of the angle of the inferior maxilla. The measurements of the length of the skull may be taken between a variety of points—the nasion, glabella, or ophryon in front, and the inion or maximum occipital point behind. Or the maximum length alone may be taken without reference to any fixed points. In all cases it is better to state precisely where the measurement is taken. The maximum breadth of the head is very variable as regards its po.sition ; it is advisable to state whether it occurs above or below the ])arieto-squamosal suture. Tlie inter-relation of these measurements as expressed Ijy the cejjhalic index has been already referred to. The width of the head may also lie measured from one asterion to the other, biasterionic width, or liy taking the bistephanic diameter. The height of the cranium is usually ascertained by measuring the distance from the basion to the bregma. The relation of the height to the length may be expressed by the height or vertical index, thus— Height X100 ,. ... —=5— = V ertical index. Length Skulls are classified in accordance with tlie relations of length and heiglit as follows :— Tapeinocephalic index below 72. Chamaecephalic index up to 70. Metriocephalic index between 72 and 77. Orthocephalic index from 70-1 to 75. Akrocephalic index above 77 (Turner). Hypsicephalic index 75-1 and upwards (Kollmann, Ranke, and Virchow). The horizontal circumference of the cranium, which ranges from 450 mm. to 550 mm., is measured around a plane cutting the glabella or ophryon anteriorly, and the maximum occipital point posteriorly. The longitudinal arc is measured from the nasion in front to the opisthiou behind ; if to tliis be added the Ijasinasal length and the distance between the l)asion and tlie opisthion, we have a record of the vertico-mesial circumference of the cranium. This may further be divided by measuring the lengths of the frontal, parietal, and occipital portions of the superior longitudinal arc. In this way the relative proportions of these bones may be expressed. The measurements of the .skeleton of the face are more complex, but, on the wliole, of greater value than the measurements of the cranium. It is in the face that tlie characteristic features of race are best ol)served, and it is here that osseous structure most accurately records the form and proportions of the living. The form of the face varies like that of the cranium in the relative proportions of its length and breath. Generally speaking, a dolichocephalic cranium is associated with a long face, whilst the bracliyceplialic type of head is correlated with a rounder and shorter face. This rule, how- ever, is not universal, and there are inanj^ exceptions to it. The determination of the facial index varies according to whether the measurements are made with or without the mandible in position. In the former case the length is measured from the ophryon or nasion above to the mental tubercle below, and compared with the maximum bizygomatic width. This is referred to as the total facial index, and is obtained by the formula— OlAryomental lengthX 100^^^^^^ ^^^.^^ .^^^^ Bizygomatic width More usually, however, owing to the loss of the lower jaM', the proportions of the face are expressed by the superior facial index. This is determined by comparing the ophryo-alveolar or naso-alveolar length with the bizygomatic width, thus— Ophryo-alveolar length x 100 „ . n . , . , —i,'. ^T-, = Superior facial index. Bizygomatic width The terms dolichofacial or leptoprosope and brachyfacial or chamoeprosope have been employed to express the differences thus recorded.