501 FORE-BRAIN. median fold or ridge. Both of these conditions are transitory. As the corpora qnadri- gemina take shape, the median ridge disappears and is replaced by the median longitudinal groove, which separates the quadrigeminal bodies. Only its lower part is retained, and this is represented by tiie frenulum veli of the adult brain. The diverticulum of the cavity gradually becomes redviced, and finally disappears as the aqueduct assimies form. FORE-BRAIN. Parts derived from the Diencephalon. Under this heading we have to consider: (1) the thalamus ; (2) the epithalamus, which comprises the pineal body and the habenular region; (3) the metathalamus, or the corpora geniculata ; and (4) the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus consists of two portions, viz. the pars mammillaris hypothalami, which comprises the corpus mammillare and the portion of the central gray matter which forms the floor of the third ventricle in its immediate vicinity; and the pars optica hypothalami, which embraces the tuber cinereum, the infundibuhim, the pituitary body, and the lamina cinerea. Strictly speaking, the optic part of the hypothalamus does not belong to the diencephalon, but it is convenient to study the parts which it represents at this stage. It is also convenient to examine, at the same time, the subthalamic tegmental region, although a very considerable part of this is apparently developed in connexion with the mesencephalon. The original cavity of that part of the brain-tube which forms the diencephalon is represented l)y the greater part of the third ventricle of the brain. Optic Thalamus (thalamus).—The optic thalamus is the principal object in this section of the brain. It is a large ovoid mass of gray matter, which lies obhquely across the path of the crus cerebri as it ascends into the cerebrum. The smaller anterior end of the thalamus lies close to the mesial plane, and is only separated from the corresponding part of the opposite side by a very narrow interval. The enlarged posterior ends of the two thalami are placed more widely apart, and in the interval between them the corpora quadrigemina are situated. As previously stated, the crusta of the crus cerebri, composed of corticifugal fibres, gradually incHnes outwards as it is traced upwards, and thus it assumes a place on the outer aspect of the optic thalamus and passes into the internal capsule of the brain. The tegmental part of the crus, on the other hand, comes into relation with the under surface of the thalamus, and forms in this situation the sub- thalamic tegmental region. To a very large extent the longitudinal fibres of the tegmentum are corticipetal. For the most part they enter the thalamus, and either end within it in fine arborisations around the thalamic cells or are carried upwards through the thalamus into the internal capsule. The two optic thalami, in their anterior two-thirds, lie close together on either side of a deep mesial cleft, which receives the name of the third ventricle of the brain. Each thalamus presents an anterior and a posterior extremity and four surfaces. The inferior and external surfaces are in apposition, and, indeed, directly connected with adjacent parts of the brain, and on this account it is only possible to study them by means of sections through the brain. The superior and internal surfaces are free. The external or lateral mrface of the thalamus is applied to a thick layer of white matter interposed between it and the lenticular nucleus, called the internal capsule, and composed of fibres passing both upwards towards, and downwards from, the cerebral cortex. A large proportion of these fibres descend to form the crusta or ventral part of the crus cerebri. From the entire extent of the external surface of the thalamus large numbers of fibres stream out and enter the internal capsule, to reach the cerebral cortex. These fibres constitute what is termed the thalamic radiation, and by this the thalamus is brought into connexion with the entire extent of the cerebral cortex. As the fibres leave the thalamus they inter- sect each other at acute angles, and over the whole of the external surface of the ganghonic mass they form a very distinct reticulated zone or stratum, which is termed the external medullary lamina. The inferior or ventral surface of the thalamus rests chieflv on the subthalamic 32 h