GENERAL EMBRYOLOGY. 14 Head Body Tail Sjiear • Head Neck Body It is Loth interesting and significant tliat in some cases the first polar body divides simul- taneously with the separation of the second polar body, each of its segments containing the same number of chromosomes as tlie female proniicleus. This condition, indeed, is by no means uncommon amongst invertebrates. It occurs in Ascaris, in certain crustaceans, and in some molluscs. Amongst vertebrates, however, the di\-ision of the first polar body, so far at least as present observations go, must be regarded as exceptional. It has been seen to occur in bats by Van Beneden and Julin, and in mice by Taffini and Sobatta, but apparently even in these it is not a constant phenomenon. As regards the spermatozoa also, though it is known that they are formed by the division of sjjerm-mother cells, the exact details of their development in mammals have not yet been satisfactorily elucidated. It .seems, however, very probaljle that in the higher forms of animal life, as in the lower, the processes of maturation of the ovum and the formation of the spermatozoa are simply those of cell-division associated with a reduction of the number of chromosomes in the resulting grand-daughter cells ; these latter being represented in the higher forms, including mammals, on tlie male side by the .spermatozoa, and on the female side by the second polar body and the mature ovum, except in the apparently occasional instances in which the first polar body divides, and in this case there are three polar bodies and the mature ovum. A spermatozoon, like the ovum, is a nucleated mass of cytoplasm, but it presents striking modifications in structure. It is very small, and possesses a head, a neck, a body, a tail, an end-piece, a spear, an axial fila- ment, a spiral filament, a spiral membrane, a head-cap,and a cer- tain amount of protoplasmic sub- stance called the protoplasmic remnant. The more obvious of tliese, namely the head, body, long filamentous tail, and thin end-piece, have long been re- cognised as essential elements of a spermatozoon (Fig. 6), and it is only comparatively recently that the remaining parts have been specially described. The head is ovoid, and laterally com- pressed, so that when viewed from the side it appears pointed; it is about 4'5 /jl long, 2'o /x broad, and 1'5 /X thick. It consists of two parts—an anterior clear, and a posterior more stainable and transversely striated. Within the head is a central Ijody which is clear, i^efractile, and not easily stainable ; in stained specimens it is sometimes" mai'ked by coloured lines, and occasionally it is divided into several pieces. The head is traversed by the axial filament, and it is surrounded by the clear head-cap, within which is a thin protoplasmic layer; this is con- tinuous posteriorly with the protoplasmic remnant whicli surrounds the neck. The neck is a very short constricted portion uniting the head and body. It is clear, it is traversed by the axial filament, it sometimes contains a rounded body, the globuloid body, and it is surrounded by the protoplasmic remnant, which latter varies considerably in amount. The body is somewhat longer than the head, it also is traversed by the axial filament, it is encircled by the spiral filament, and it gives attachment to the spiral membrane. The tail or flagellum is aliout six times the length of the body, it may terminate in an enlai'gement or it may taper towards its extremity, tlic axial filament lies in its centre, and the spiral filament and spiral membrane arc coiled around it. Projecting from its posterior end is a fine filamentous process, the end-piece, which Basal body of ' Sjicar -Head cap -Central body _ Protoplasmic reniiiaiit Axial lilaineiit - Spiral tilanient . Enrl piece 1 Fia. 6.—Human Spermatozoa (after Retzius). A, Side view ; B, Front view. Tail- Spiral niPin- biaue with iiiaryinal lilaiuent Fio. 7.—Stiidctuue ok a Sl'ERMATOZOON (Diagrammatic).