OSTEOLOGY. 184 Primary centre appears about I'nd ni. f(Ktal bfe. Acromial centres appears 15-lB yrs.; fuses aboiit 25 yrs. \^ Secondary cen tre for coracoid appears about end 1st yr.; fuses about 18 yrs. V Appears about IB-l" yrs.; fuses about 20 yrs fSubcoracoid centi'e appears 10yrs.; fuses " yrs. Appears about Ajipears about 16 or 17 vrs. ; fuses 18-20 yrs. 17 yrs. ; fuses 20-25 vrs. Scai)ula at end of First Year. Scapula about the Age of Puberty. Fig. 127.—Ossification of the Scapula. fore part of the coracoid appears in the first year, and fusion along an oblique line leading from the upper edge of the glenoid fossa to the conoid tubercle is complete about the fifteenth year. A separate centre (subcoracoid), which ultimately includes the upper part of the glenoid fossa and external part of the coracoid process, makes its appearance about the tenth year, and fuses with the surrounding 1)0116 about sixteen or seventeen. Up till the age of puberty the acro- mion remains cartilagin- ous ; centres, two or more in number, then make their appearance, which coalesce and ultimately unite with the spine about ■the twenty - fifth year. Failure of union ma}", however, persist tlu'ougliout life (see ayite, Variations). Ossification commences in the cartilage in the inferior angle about ])uberty, and indepen- dently and a little later, along the verte- bral margin, fusion witli the body occurring at from twenty to twenty-five years. Small scale-like epiphyses make their appearance on the upper surface and at the extremity of the coracoid, and are completed about the twentieth year. A thin epiphysial plate develops over the lower part of the glenoid fossa about sixteen or seventeen, fusion being complete about eighteen or twenty yenrs of age. The Humerus. The humerus, or bone of the upper arm, articulates with the scapula above and witli the bones of the forearm, the radius and ulna, below. Its upper end com- prises the head and great and small tuberosities ; its shaft, which is longer than any of the other bones of the upper extremity, is cylindrical above and flattened below, where it ends in the inferior extremity, which is expanded to form the condyles on either side, and supports the trochlear and capitellar articular surfaces for the ulna and radius respectively. The superior extremity is the thickest and stoutest part of the bone. The head (caput humeri), which forms about one-third of a spheroid and is covered by articular cartilage, is directed upwards, inwards, and slightly backwards, and rests in the glenoid fossa of the scapula; the convexity of its surface is most pronounced in its posterior half. Separating the head from the tuberosities externally is a shallow- groove, which fades away on the surface of the bone which supports the articular surface interiorly. This is named the anatomical neck (collum anatomicum) and serves for the attachment of the capsule of the shoulder joint. The articular edge of the groove opposite the small tuberosity is usually notched for the attacliment of the superior gleno-humeral ligament. The great tuberosity (tuberculum majus) abuts on the outer side of the head and becomes continuous with the shaft below. Its upper surface forms a quadrant, which is subdivided into three more or less smooth areas of unequal size. Of these the liighest and anterior is for the insertion of the supraspinatus muscle, the middle for the infraspinatus, whilst the lowest and posterior serves for the insertion of the teres minor muscle. The outer surface of this tuberosity, which bulges beyond the line of the shaft, is rough and pierced by numerous foramina. Anteriorly the great tuberosity is separated from the small