THE FIFTH, TEIGEMINAL OR TRIFACIAL NERVE. 641 dental uerve). The anterior dental nerve supplies tlie incisor and canine teeth; the middle dental nerve supplies the premolar teeth. After eriiergiyig on the face from the infra-orbital foramen, the infra-orljital nerve divides into a number of radiating branches arranged in three sets—(a) palpebral, for the lower eyelid ; (6) nasal, for the skin of the side of the nose ; and (c) labial, for the cheek and upper lip. These branches form communications with the infra-orbital branches of the facial uerve, known as the infra-orbital plexus (Fig. 458, p. 637). The spheno-palatine or Meckel's ganglion (g. spheno-palatinum) occupies the upper part of the spheno-niaxillary fossa. It is a small reddish-gray ganglion, suspended from the superior maxillary nerve by the two spheno-palatine branches which constitute its sensory roots. The motor and sympathetic roots of the ganglion are derived from the vidian nerve. This nerve is formed in the cavity of the skull upon the cartilage filling up the foramen lacerum medium, by the union of the great swperficial petrosal nerve from the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve (emerging from the temporal lione through the hiatus Fallopii) with the great deep petrosal nerve, a branch of the carotid plexus of the sympathetic on the internal carotid artery. The vidian nerve passes through the vidian canal to the spheno- maxillary fossa, where it ends in Meckel's ganglion. The branches from the ganglion are seven in number, (a) The pterygo-palatine or pharyngeal branch passes l)ackwards through the pterygo-palatine canal to supply the mucous membrane of the roof of the pharynx. (h) The posterior palatine nerves, three in number, are directed downwards to the palate through the posterior palatine canals. The large posterior palatine nerve emerges on the under surface of the palate through the large posterior palatine canal, and at once sex>arates into numerous branches for the supply of the mucous membrane of the soft and the bard palate. Its anteiior filaments communicate with branches of the naso-palatine nerve. The main nerve gives off, as it lies in the posterior palatine canal, a small inferior nasal nerve which enters the nasal cavity and supplies the mucous meml)rane of the lower part of the outer wall of the nose. The small posterior palatine nerve descends through the small posterior palatine canal, and, piercing the tuberosity of the palate Ijone, is distributed to the mucous membrane of the soft palate, uvula, and tonsil. It possibly conveys motor fibres to the levator palati and azygos uvulre muscles. The accessory posterior palatine nerves are one or more small twigs which pass through accessory posterior palatine canals, and supply branches to the mucous membrane of the tonsil, soft palate, and uvula. (c) The branches directed inwards from Meckel's ganglion enter the nasal cavity through the spheno-palatine foramen. They are two in number — the naso- palatine and the superior nasal. The superior nasal nerve is a small nerve destined for the mucous membrane of the upper and back part of the outer wall of the nose. The naso-palatine nerve, after passing through the spheno-palatine foramen, crosses the roof of the nose, and extends obliquely downwards and forwards along the nasal septum, grooving the vomer in its course, to reach the incisor foramen near the front of the hard palate. The nerves pass through the subordinate mesial foramina (of Scarpa), the left nerve in front of the right. In the incisor foramen the two nerves communicate together. They then turn back- wards and supply the mucous membrane of the hard palate. They communicate posteriorly with terminal filaments of the large posterior palatine nerves. In its course through the naM cavity the naso-palatine nerve furnishes collateral branches to the mucous membrane of the roof and septum of the nose (Fig. 453, p. 634). {d) The orbital branches, one or more minute branches, pass upwards to the periosteum of the orliit from Meckel's ganglion. Inferior Maxillary Nerve (n. mandibularis).—The inferior maxillary nerve is formed by the union of two roots: a large sensory root, from the Gasserian ganglion, and the small motor root of the trigeminal nerve, which is wholly incorporated with this trunk. The two roots pass together l)eneath the dura mater of the middle fossa of the base of the skull to the foramen ovale, through which they emerge into the pterygoid region. Outside the skull they coml)ine to form a single trunk, which soon separates into anterior and posterior divisions. At its emergence from the skull the nerve is deeply placed beneath the middle 41