THE THIKD OK OCULO-MOTOE NERVE. 635 is crossed by the ophthalmic artery and the uasal nerve, and nearer to its termination it is surrounded by the ciliary vessels and nerves, and by the capsule of Tenon. It is pierced obliquely on its under surface by the central artery of the retina. Decussation in the Optic Commissure.—In the oi^tic coinnussiue the h\nv6 of tlie two optic tracts separate, the inner Iialf of each tract decussating to form the mesial half of the opj^osite optic nerve. The other, outer half of eacli tract continues its course to form the outer half of the optic nerve on the same side. At the back of the commissure another bundle of fibres is found pas.sing from tract to tract liehind the decussating filjres, and known as Gudden's commis- sure (see p. 510). The Third ok Oculo-motok Nerve. The oculo-motor nerve (n. oculo-motorius) arises from the brain, in the region of the posterior perforated spot, by several radicles emerging from the Internal carotid artery (-)IJtic nerve Troclilear nervi Oenlo-motor nerve Uiaphragnia sell;e titnitary fossa' Sphenoidal sinus- Sphenoid boue. Internal carotid artery Abducent nerve Cavernous Ophthalmic division of trigeminal nerve •' Superior maxillary division of trigeminal nerve Inferior maxillary division of trigeminal nerve Ophthalmic artery Anterior elinoid jjrocess Trochleiu- )ierve Fiuntal branch 1 /ichrvnial branch Oculo-motur nerve ■"(.suiierior division) ,. _N'asal branch of oi)hthalniic ner\'e Oculo-motur nerve (inlerior division) Abducent nerve r>\Superi(ir maxillary division of trigeminal nerve Foramen ove Inferior maxillary division of trigeminal nerve Motor root Pig. 455.—Rklations of Stkoctuhes in thk Caveunous Sinus and Sphenoidal Fissuke. oculo-motor sulcus, on the inner side of the crus cerebri, just in front of the pons Varolii (Fig. 452). Passing forwards between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries, the nerve pierces the dura mater on the outer side of the posterior elinoid process, in a small triangular space between the free and attached borders of the tentorium cerebelli. Beneath the dura mater the nerve courses through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, and enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure and between the two heads of the external rectus muscle. As it enters the orbit it divides into upper and lower branches, separated by the nasal nerve. Branches. — The superior branch of the nerve supplies two muscles of the orbit—the superior rectus and the levator palpebrse superioris. The inferior branch passes forwards, and after giving branches to the internal and inferior recti. Posterior connnissurc Pineal bodv Corpora quadrigemnia Bi-eimlui Supeiuor medullary velui Optic thalamus .- Brachia conjunctiva Fourth nerve Fillet Superior peduncle of cerebellum Crus cerebri Lingula Fic 456. —Dorsal Surface of thS Mid Bhain, to .show the origin of tlie trochlear (fourth) nerve. ends in the inferior oblique muscle. The short root of the ciliary gangiiou arises from the terminal branch to the last-named muscle. Communications.—1. In the cavernous sinus the third nerve communicates with the cavernous plexus on the internal carotid artery. "2. In the cavernous sinus it also