1141 DEVELOPMENT OF THE UROGENITAL OEGANS. urogenital part of the cloaca, which in the course of develo^juaent becomes transformed into the bladder and the urogenital canal of the embryo (Figs. 780 and 7S1). The developing ureter at first opens as a diverticulum from the Wolffian duct, at a short distance from the point where the latter joins the cloaca. Soon, however, the ureters acquire independent openings into the cloaca, which l)ecome gradually shifted further from one another and from those of the Wolffian ducts. The ureters are now found to open into the anterior portion of the cloaca which lies nearer to the head of the embryo than the part with which the Wolffian ducts are connected. This cephalic portion receiving the ureters becomes, in the male, the bladder and the upper part of the prostatic urethra; in the female, the bladder iind the entire urethra (Fig. 782). The caudal part, lying below the level of the entrance of the Wolffian ducts, is the urogenital canal, and is represented in the adult male by the lower part of the prostatic and the membranous urethra ; in the female by the part of the urogenital fissure which immediately surrounds the openings of the urethra and vagina (Fig. 782). The united Miillerian ducts open into the lower part of the cloaca or urogenital canal, between the Wolffian ducts of opposite sides. In the male the position of this opening, which is represented in the adult by the opening of the uterus masculinus, remains almost vnichanged ; in the female, on the other hand, the urogenital canal becomes so much shortened during development, that the opening, which in this sex is represented by the orifice of the vagina, comes to the surface at the bottom of the urogenital fissure (B^ig. 782). The cavity of the developing l)ladder is directly con- tinuous above with that of the allantois, and b}' some authorities the bladder is described as arising as a dilatation of the proximal part of the allantois. When the ectodermal cloacal fossa is formed, after the complete separation of the cloaca into anterior or urogenital, and posterior or rectal parts, it communicates with the rectum behind and with the urogenital canal in front (p. 43). The fossa is liounded laterally by a well-marked skin fold, and at its anterior end is situated the sexual eminence. This eminence becomes the terminal portion of the penis or of the clitoris, and its posterior surface is grooved longitudinally in such a manner that the proximal end of the groove lies near the opening of the urogenital caiiid into the cloaca! fossa. In the male the lips of this groove on the sexual eminence, meeting together, form a canal which, in the adult, traverses the glans penis as the terminal part of the urethra. The lateral margins of the cloacal fossa, behind the sexual eminence, meet together, and fusing in the middle line, convert the fossa into a canal, which becomes the spongy portion of the adult urethra. In this way all the cloacal fossa lying in front of the rectum becomes closed over to form the third part of the urethra. The last portion of the fossa to disajipear from the surface is the anterior part, which lies just at the base of the sexual eminence (Fig. 782). The spongy part of the urethra is thus derived from the ectodermal cloacal fossa, while the prostatic and membranous parts owe their origin to the endodermal cloaca. Ill the female the margins of the cloacal fossa remain separate throughout life, and the fossa persists as the urogenital space. The groove on the sexual eminence, or glans clitoridis, closes over, but does not form a canal as in the male. The urogenital canal, at first like that of the male, Ijecomes shorter and shorter during development. Owing to this shortening the lower end of the fused portions of the Miillerian ducts, which opens into the canal, and from which the vagina is formed, appears in the adult to open directly into the fossa (urogenital space) behind the channel leading from the bladder. From the latter channel is formed the female urethra (Fig. 782). Wolffian Duct and Embryonic Secretory Organ.—The Wolffian duct arises in the mesoblast, about the fifteenth day, as a solid cord of cells occupying a position immediately to the outer side of the mesoblastic somites and to the inner side of the body cavity. When first recognised the duct lies immediately beneath the epiblast, and as it grows backwards to reach the cloaca it is often found to be intimately connected with the epiblast. This close connexion of the duct with the epiblast, in the early stages, is by some aiithorities supposed to indicate a primitive ecto- dermal origin of the canal, but by others, and apparently with more reason, to be a trace of the opening of the ducts on the surface of the bod}', such as exists in connexion with the excretory organs of lower animals. During the third week the cellidar cord which represents the Wolfiian duct acquires a lumen, and aboiit the end of tiie same week tiic duct in its growth reaches the cloaca. As soon as the cloaca has become divided into dorsal and ventral subdivisions, the Wolffian duct is seen to end in the caudal part of the ventral subdivision, which becomes the urogenital canal (Fig. 781). The Wolffian body or mesonephros is developed in tiie mesoblast of the " intermediate cell mass," innuediately to the outer side of the Wolffiiin duct, and consists of a number