THE TONGUE. 955 along its middle, except ueal' the tip, is a depression, from which a fold of mucous meudjrane, the frenulum linguae, passes down to the iioor of the mouth, and on towards the liack of the maudil^le. At each side of the frenulum, and a short distance from it, the large ranine vein is distinctly seen through the mucous meml)rane. Further out still are situated two indistinct, fringed folds of mucous membrane, the plicae fimbriatse, which converge somewhat as they are followed forward towards the tip, near which they are lost. From the inferior surface of the tongue the mucous membrane passes across the floor of the mouth to the inner surface of the gum, with the mucous covering of which it ])ecomes continuous. The plicae fimbriatae corresi^ond pretty closely to tlie course of tlie ranine arteries as tliey iiin towards tlie tip ; the arteries, however, are deeply placed in the sub- stance of the tongue, at a distance of 3 to 6 mm. from the inferior surface. The plicffi, which are more distinct at birth and in the foBtns, are said to correspond to the under tongue found in the lemurs. The root of the tongue (radix linguse) is the portion of the in- ferior aspect which is connected by muscles and mucous memljrane to the mandible and hyoid bone. It is of very considerable extent, and is, with the Imse, the most lixed The sublingual gland of the left side has been laid bare by part of the organ. It is also the removing the mucous membrane; to expose the apical situation at which the vessels and nerves as well as the extrinsic muscles enter. The pl;iltniin Apical glaiul of tongue Layer of muscle cut to show the gland Plicfe fimliviatiC Frenulnm liugUiX' Wharton's duct openings of Wharton's ducts Sublingual gland Plica sulilingnalis, with u])pinn,^s of d\icts of sublingual gland Fio. 643.—Open Mouth with Tongue raised, and the Sublingual and Apical Glands exposed. gland.of the right side a thin layer of muscle, iu addition to the mucous membrane, has ))een removed. A branch of the lingual nerve is seen running on the inner aspect of the gland. The ranine vein is faintly indicated on this side also. Structure of the Tongue.— The tongue is chiefly composed of striped muscular tissue, in coiiuexiou with which are found a considerable admixture of fine fat and a median septum of connective tissue occupying the central part of the organ. In addition, there are vessels, nerves, glands, and IjMiiphoid tissue, the whole being covered over by mucous membrane, except at the root (Fig. 644). The muscular tissue is derived 23artly from the terminations of the extrinsic muscles —namely, the liyoglossus, styloglossus, genioglossus, palatoglossus, and chondroglossus : but also largely from the intrinsic muscles—namely, the superior linguahs, inferior lingualis, the transverse, and the vertical lingual muscles. These are so arranged that they form a cortical portion, made up chiefly of longitudinal fibres—derived above from the superior, lingualis and the liyoglossus, at the sides from the styloglossus, and l)elow from the inferior lingualis. This cortex surrounds a central or medullary portion, divided into two lateral halves by the septum, and formed in great part by the transverse and vertical fibres, and also by the fibres of the- genioglossi ascending to the dorsum. The muscular fibres derived from these various sources end by being inserted into the deep surface of the mucous membrane. The detailed description of the extrinsic and intrinsic muscles will be found on page 386. The septum is a median fibrous partition found in the medullary portion only, and easily exposed by separating the two genioglossi on the under surface of the tongue. Anteriorly it usifally extends to the apex; whilst posteriorly it grows gradually narrower, and expanding transversely at the same time, it passes into a broad sheet (the