VISCERAL BEANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 799 (d) Ovarian branches, imiuerous, pass to the hilus of the ovary, and thence to the substance of the organ. " (e) A uterine branch is formed by the continuation of the trunk to its anastomoses with the uterine branch of the internal iliac. The Unpaired or Single Visceral Branches of the Abdominal Aorta 1. The cceliac artery or cceliac axis (a. coeliaca, Figs. 566 and 567) arises from the front of the abdominal aorta, immediately Ijelow the aortic oritice of the diaphragm and between its crura. It is a short but wide vessel which runs almost horizontall}' forwards for a distance of about half-an-inch and then terminates by dividing into three large branches—the coronary or gastric, the hepatic, and the splenic. Relations.—The short trunk extends from the aorta behind the lesser sac of peritoneum, by which it is separated from the stomach, or from the small omeutum, in front. It runs below the right lobe of the liver, and above the upper border of the pancreas and the splenic vein, and it is surrounded by the solar and cceliac plexuses of the Pyloric artery Fic. 567.—The Cceliac Axis and its Branches. sympathetic; the right semilunar ganglion and Spigelian lobe of the liver are on its right side, and the left semilunar ganglion and cardiac end of the stomach are on its left side Branches.—(a) The coronary or gastric artery (a. gastrica sinistra) is the smallest branch of the coeliac axis. It runs obliquely upwards and to the left, and reaches the smaller curvature of the stomach close to the oesophagus. It then turns sharply forwards, downwards, and to the right, and runs towards the pyloric end of the stomach to anastomose with the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. In the first part of its course the artery lies behind the lesser sac of the peritoneum ; it then passes into the right pancreatico-gastric fold, and is continued Ijetween the layers of the small omentum. Branches.—(i.) (Esophageal (rami cesopliagei).—When the artery reaches the stomach a large oesophageal branch is given off, wliich passes iijjwards on tlie cesophagus, and gives offsets to it which anastomose with oesophageal branches of the tlioracic aorta and with branches of the inferior phrenic, (ii.) Gastric branches are distriljuted to both surfaces of the stomach. They anastomose with branches of the vasa brevia of tlie splenic, and with branches of the gastro- epiploic arterial arch on the greater curvature of the stomach. (b) The splenic artery (a. henalis, Fig. 567) is the largest branch of the