1201 THE AXILLA. fascia. The breast tissue, therefore, has a much wider distribution thau was formerly supposed. Vertically, it extends from the second ri]j to the sixth costal cartilage at the angle where it begins to ascend towards the sternum : horizontally, from a little within the lateral border of the sternum, opposite the fourth rib, to the fifth rib in the midaxillary line. The inner hemisphere of the mamma rests almost entirely on the pectoralis major; at its lowest part it slightly overlies the iipper part of the aponeurosis covering the rectus abdominis muscle. The upj^er quadrant of the outer hemisphere rests upon the greater pectoral, on the edge of the lesser pectoral, and to a slight extent on the serratus magnus, upon which it extends upwards into the axilla (" axillary tail" of Spence) as high as the tliird rib, where it comes into relation with the thoracic group of axillary lymphatic glands. The remainder of the oxUer hemispliere rests almost entirely upon the serratus magnus, except the lowest part which overlaps the digitations of the external obli(][ue arising from the fifth and sixth ribs. It follows, therefore, that fully one-third of the vjhole mamvia lies inferior and external to the axillary border of the pectoralis major muscle. The surgeon must cut I)eyond the above limits if he wishes to remove the whole of the mammary tissue. The a.xillary fascia resists the spontaneous rupture" of an axillary abscess, which, therefore, tends to spread upwards beneath the pectorals, and towards the root of the neck. To open the abscess the incision should be made upon the inner wall, behind, and parallel to, the long thoracic artery, which runs under cover of the anterior fold. Brachial artery Clavicle. Posterior axillary fold Fig. 809.—Axilla, Inner Aspect of Upper Ahm and Elbow. The axillary lymphatic glands vary greatly in size and nund:)er; many are no larger than a pin's head. In the female some of them undergo an adipose functional involu- tion, whereby they come to resemble fat lobules. The central f/roup (Leaf), embedded in the fat immediately beneath the axillary fascia, become inflamed in poisoned wounds of the upper extremity; the pectoral group, related to the inner wall of the axilla and the long thoracic artery, are usually the first to become diseased in affections of the breast. In malignant disease of this organ the^os<ej7or (subscapular) and the ojoira/(subclavicular) groups are generally affected, as are also, not infrequently, glands situated between the pectorales major and minor, and in the retro-pectoral fascia in the neighbourhood of the superior thoracic artery (Rotter). In health one or two glands can usuallv be felt by thrusting the fingers upwards and inwards beneath the anterior fold, the arm beino' only slightly abducted, so as not to stretch the axillary fascia. In clearing out the axilla for malignant disease, the surgeon removes all the lymphatic glands, and, as far as possible, all fat and fascia, including the sheath of the axillary vein. It must be remembered that the lower part of the axillary vein lies immediately underneath the deep fascia of the outer wall of the axilla; in cleaning the inner wall the long thoracic nerve must not be injured; and in removing the posterior group of lymphatic glands the long subscapular nerve, which accompanies the subscapular vessels, must be avoided, as it is doubly important to retain the action of the latissimus dorsi after removing the pectorals. 76