THE ORGANS OF SENSE. 712 divergent fangs. It consists of a body (corpus incudis), a long process (crus longum), and a short process (crus breve); the two processes i'orin with each other an angle of 90° to lOO"". The body and short process are situated in the epityuipanic recess. The body presents a more or less saddle-shaped surface for articulation with the head of the malleus. This surface is directed forwards, and its lower part is hollowed out for the accommodation of the cog-tooth of the malleus. In front of this hollow it is prominent and spur-like. The short process is thick, triangular in shape, and projects horizontally backwards ; its conical extremity, covered with cartilage, articulates with the fossa iucudis in the postero-inferior part of the epitympauic recess. The long process projects, almost perpendicularly, downwards from the body into the tympanic cavity, where it lies parallel with, but 1^ mm. behind and internal to, the handle of the malleus. Its lower end is bent inwards and narrowed to form a short neck, on the inner extremity of which is a small knob of bone, the processus lenticularis, for articulation with the head of the stapes. Until the sixth mouth of fcetal life, this process exists as a separate ossicle, termed the OS orbiculare. The stapes (Fig. 519, E) presents a head (capitulum stapedis), a neck (collum stapedis), two crura (crus anterius et postering), and a base or footplate (basis stapedis). The head, directed outwards, is concave externally, for articulation with the processus lenticularis of the incus. The neck is the slightly constricted part immediately internal to the head, and from it tlie two crura spring; the tendon of the stapedius muscle is inserted into the posterior aspect of the neck. The anterior crus is sliorter and less curved than the posterior. Diverging from each other, the crura are directed inwards and are attached—one near the anterior, the other near the posterior end of the footplate. The footplate almost completely fills the oval fenestra, and, like it, is somewhat oval or reniform, its anterior end being the more pointed. In the recent condition a membrane fills the arch formed by the crura and the footplate, the crura being grooved for its reception. In the child the crura of the stapes are less curved than in the adult, and the opening bounded by them and the footplate is nearly triangular. Articulations of the Tympanic Ossicles.—The joint between the head of the malleus and the body of the iucus (articulatio incudomalleolaris) is diarthrodial, and naay be described as one of reciprocal reception. It is surrounded by a capsular ligament, from the inner surface of which a wedge-shaped meniscus projects into the joint cavity and incompletely divides it. The articulation of the processus lenti- cularis and the capitulum stapedis (articulatio incudostapedia) is of the natui'e of an enarthrosis and is surrounded l)y a capsular ligament. An interarticular carti- lage has been described as occurring in this joint, while some observers deny the presence of a synovial cavity and regard the articulation as a syndesmosis, the articular surfaces being held together merely by fibrous tissue. Ligaments binding the Ossicles to the Walls of the Tympanic Cavity (lig. ossiculorum auditus).—The malleus is attached to the walls of the tympanum by three ligaments (Fig. 520), viz. anterior, superior, and external The anterior liga- ment (lig. mallei anterius) consists of two portions: (a) the baiid of Meckel, which is attached to the base of the processus longus and passes forwards through the Grlaserian fissure to reach the spine of the sphenoid; it was formerly described as the laxator tympani muscle : (h) a firm bundle of fibres, the lig. mallei anterius of HelmhoUz, which extends from the anterior boundary of the notch of Eivinus to the anterior aspect of the malleus, above the base of the processus longus. The superior ligament (lig. mallei superius) extends, almost vertically, from the head of the malleus to the roof of the epitympanic recess. The external Hgament (lig. mallei laterale) is short and fan-shaped; its fibres converge Irom the posterior half of the notch of Eivinus to the crista mallei. The posterior part of this liga- ment is strong and constitutes the li(/amentum mallei posticum of HelmhoUz. It forms, together with the ligamentum mallei anterius, the axis around which the malleus rotates, and the two constitute what Helmholtz has termed the "axis-liga- ment " of the malleus. The posterior extremity of the crus breve of the iucus is tipped with cartilage and fixed by means of a ligament, the ligamentum incudis posterius (Fig. 520), to the