THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 866 surface of the trachea, receiving afferents from the trachea and the lower part of the thyroid body, and giving efferents to the lower deep cervical glands. The deep cervical glands lie along the course of the internal jugular vein, and at the root of the neck extend outwards along the subclavian vein. They form two groups, an upper and a lower, (a) The uipinr deep cervical glands (lymphoglandulaj cervicales profundse superiores) extend from the base of the skull to the ])ifurcation of the common carotid artery. They receive afferents from the interior of the cranium, the posterior part of the nose, the walls of the pharynx, the tonsil, the upper part of the larynx, the thyroid Ijody, the posterior and deep parts of the tongue, and from all the glands of the head and neck except the occipital, mastoid, superficial parotid, pre- tracheal, and the lower deep cervical glands. Their efferents terminate in the lower deep cervical glands, (h) The lower deep cervical glands (lym- phoglandulaj cervicales profundae inferiores) lie along the lower part of the internal jugular vein, and they extend outwards into the lower part of the posterior triangle. Their afferents are derived from the upper deep cervical glands, the superficial cervical glands, the pre-tracheal glands, the oesophagus, the trachea, the lower part of the pre-vertebral region, and the infra-clavicular glands. Their efferents usually unite to form a common jugular lymphatic_^ trunk which opens on the right side into the right lymphatic duct, and on the left into the thoracic duct. LYMPHATIC GLANDS AND VESSELS OF THE UPPER EX- TREMITY. The lymphatic glands of the upper extremity are divisilile into (1) superficial and (2) deep sets. Fig. 594.—Superficial Lymphatic Vessels or the ^ /i\ ^r^^ « ■ i i /i T Trunk, AND THE Lymphatic Gla:<ds AND Vessels— -"^"^ supernciai gianas ue m Superficial and Deep—of the Limbs (diagram- matic). All superficial lymphatics are printed black ; the deep lymphatics throughout are coloured red. Afferent vessels are represented liy continuous lines ; efferent and iuterglandular vessels by dotted lines. A.A. Anterior axillary glands. E.A External axillary glands. P.A. Posterior axillary glands. A.C. Ante-cubital glands. L Inguinal glands. S.C. Supra-trochlear glands. A.L Anterior tiljial glands. LC. Infra-clavicular glands. S.F. Superficial femoral glands. D.F. Deep femoral glands. P. Pubic glands. U. Urethral lymphatics.