486 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. descends on tlie outer side of the column of gray matter formed by the substantia gelatinosa Kolandi, which constitutes its terminal nucleus. Fibres constantly leave it to enter the nucleus, so that the lower it gets the smaller does the spinal root become until, in the upper part of the spinal cord about the level of the first or second spinal nerve, it disappears altogether. Tlie large spinal root of the fifth nerve is a conspicuous object in sections through the pons and medulla. In the former it traverses the tegmental part, first, between tlie emergent part of the facial nerve and the vestibular nerve; and then lower down, between the restiform body and the nucleus of the facial nerve (Fig. 358, A, p. 483). In cross sections it presents a well-defined semilunar or curved pyriform outline. In the iipper I)art of the medulla, it lies on the ventral aspect of the restiform body and nearer to the surface (Fig. 341, p. 458). Here it is traversed and broken up into separate bundles by the cerebello-olivary fibres and the roots of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus nerves. Finall}', it comes to the surface and its fibres are spread over the area on the side of the medulhi known as the tubercle and funiculus of Eolando (Fig. 338, p. 455). The small motor part of the trigeminal nerve is chiefly distributed to the muscles of mastication and derives its hljres from two sources, viz. from the motor nucleus and from the mesencephalic root of the trigeminal nerve. The motor nucleus (Fig. 360) lies in the lateral part of the tegmental portion of the pons, close to the inner side of the sensory terminal nucleus, but somewhat nearer to the floor of the fourth ventricle. It is not placed in the exact line of tlie facial nucleus, as it is situated somewhat nearer the dorsal aspect of tlie pons; but, nevertheless, it may be considered as being equivalent in this region to the detached head of the anterior horn of gray matter in the lower part of the medulla. The cells of this nucleus are large and multipolar, and their axons run togetlier to form the motor part of the fifth nerve. The mesencephalic root takes origin in the mesencephalon from a column of large loosely-arranged cells which are placed in the extreme lateral part of the gray matter which surrounds the Sylvian aqueduct. As this root is traced down- wards it gradually gains strength by the addition of new fibres, and it assumes a crescentic form in transverse section (Figs. 365, p. 494; 367, p. 496; 347, p. 467; 346, p. 466). In the lower part of the mesencephalon it lies on the inner side of the superior cerebellar peduncle; and the fourth nerve, on its way to the surface, runs downwards in its concavity and on its mesial aspect. In the upper part of the pons, it continues its course downwards on the outer and deep aspect of the gray matter which forms the floor of the fourth ventricle. Finally, reaching the level of the nuclei of the trigeminal nerve, the fibres of the mesencephalic root turn forwards and join the motor part of the trigeminal nerve. (1) It is not known to what ])arts the fibres of the mesencephalic root go. Kcilliker suggests that they supply tlie tensor veli jialatini and the tensor tympani; perhaps, also, they may lie dis- tributed to the mylo-liyoid and tlie anterior belly of tlie digastric. (2)" Filn-es from the opposite pyramidal tract go to the motor nucleus and bring it into connexion with the motor area of the cereljral cortex. (3) By degeneration methods the root of the fiftli nerve has been traced down to tlie level of the second cervical nerve (Ferrier and Turner). (4) Many of tlie axons of tlie terminal nuclei emerge as arcuate fibres, and, proceeding through the raphe, assume a longitudinal course in the fillet of the oj^iiosite side, and thus establish connexions with parts higher up. (5) Some of the axons of the cells of the terminal nucleus enter the motor nucleus, and thus establish a simijle reflex apparatus. The Development of the Parts derived from the Ehombencephalon. A general sketch of the development of the medulla, pons, and cerebellum has already been given (p. 441). It is only necessary, therefore, in this section to call attention to some of the more important details connected with the process. Medulla.—In the embryo the cervical flexure indicates in a sharp and definite manner the point of junction between the cord and the brain (Fig. 327, p. 441). In the early condition of the rhombencephalon the calamus scriptorius extends downwards to tliis level, so tliat, in the first instance, there is no part of the medulla which corresponds to the closed portion present in the adult. The lower closed part of the medulla makes its appearance at a later period, and is termed by His the intercalated portion (Schaltstiick). In our study of the development of that part of the neural tube which forms the spinal