181 THE SCAPULA. The glenoid surface is a pyritbrm articular area, slightly concave from above down- wards and from side to side ; its border is but slightly raised above the general surface and affords attachment in the recent condition to the glenoid ligament, which helps to deepen the socket in which the head of the humerus rests. Below, this edge is confluent with the infraglenoid impression (tuberositas infraglenoidalis), whilst above it l)lends with a tubercle (tulierositas supraglenoidalis), to which the long head Clavicular facet 1 Inferior anc:le Fig. 125.—The Right Scapula as seen from Behind. of the biceps muscle is attached. Springing from the upper part of the head, in line with the superior border, is the coracoid process (processus coracoideus). The base of this is limited externally by the glenoid edge, whilst internally it is separ- ated from the superior border by the suprascapular notch. Eising upwards for a short space, it bends on itself at nearly a right angle, and ends in a process which is directed outwards and slightly forwards, overhanging the glenoid fossa above and in front. Compressed from above downwards, it has attached to its upper surface near its angle the conoid ligament, wide of which there is a rough area for the trapezoid ligament. Attached to its posterior border is the coraco-acromial ligament, whilst at its extremity and towards the front part of its anterior border, * is the combined origin of the biceps and coraco-brachialis, together with the insertion of the pectoralis minor. The neck (collum scapulae) is that somewhat constricted part of the bone which supports the head; it corresponds in front and behind to a line drawn from the suprascapular notch to the infraglenoid tubercle. The body of the bone has two surfaces, a dorsal (facies dorsalis) and a ventral (facies costalis). The former is divided into two fossae by an outstanding process of triangular form, called the spine (spina sca^ailiTe). The attached l)order of this