606 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. aud fifth lumbar nerves (lumbo-sacral cord), and of the first and second sacral nerves, combine to form the peroneal nerve aud the subordmate nerves which arise from the posterior aspect of the plexus. The anterior (ventral) trunks of the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves (lumbo-sacral cord), and of the first and second sacral nerves, together with that part of the third sacral nerve which is contributed to the plexus, unite to form the tibial nerve and the subordinate nerves arising from the front of the plexus. Of these nerves the fifth lumbar and first sacral are the largest; the others diminishing in size as they are traced upwards and downwards. There is no distinct demarcation between the sacral and pudendal plexuses. The second and third sacral nerves (and in some cases the first sacral also) are concerned in the formation of both plexuses. Branches.—Tlie nerves of distribution derived from the sacral plexus are thus divided according to their origin into an anterior (ventral) aud a posterior (dorsal) series. Each set comprises one of the two essential terminal parts—peroneal and tibial nerves—of the great sciatic, and numerous smaller collateral branches. Anterior Branches. Posterior Branches. Tibial (internal popliteal) nerve Peroneal (external popliteal) nerve Muscular branches— Mtiscular branches— Nerves to hamstring muscles Nerves to short head of biceps ,, quadratus femoris ,, pyriformis ,, gemelli Superior gluteal nerve ,, obturator internus Inferior gluteal nerve Articiddr branches (to hip-joint) Articular branches (to knee-joint) Great Sciatic Nerve. The great sciatic nerve (h. ischiadicus).—It has already been shown liow this nerve is formed. It- comprises the two main nerves of the sacral plexus, bound together by an investing sheath, wbich contains, in addition to the peroneal and tibial nerves, a subordinate branch of each, the nerve to the hamstring muscles, from the tibial, and the nerve to the short head of the biceps flexor cruris, from the peroneal nerve. A thick band about half-an-inch in breadth is formed, con- sisting from within outwards of (1) nerves to the hamstring muscles, (2) tibial (internal popliteal), (3) peroneal (external popliteal), (4) nerve to short head of the biceps muscle. The great sciatic nel've extends through the buttock and the back of the thigh. Forming the continuation of the sacral plexus, it enters the buttock by passing through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, in the interval between the pyriformis and superior gemellus. Concealed by the gluteus maximus muscle, it passes downwards to the thigh, accompanied by the sciatic artery, aud the comes nervi ischiadici. It lies in the hollow between the great trochanter of the femur and the tuberosity of the ischium, and enters the thigh beneath the fold of tlie nate^ and the lower_ border of the gluteus maximus. At this spot it is com- paratively superficial, lying in the angle between the edge of the gluteus maximus above and externally, and the oi-igins of the hamstring muscles internally. In the thigh it is placed upon the adductor magnus beneath the hamstring muscles, and it terminates at a variable point by dividing into the tibial and peroneal nerves. As already stated, these two nerves may be separate from their origins, and their separation may occur at any point between the great sacro-sciatic foramen and the upper part of the popliteal space. The Nerves of Distribution from the Sacral Plexus. These are divisible into two series — collateral and terminal branches. Each subdivision consists of a series of anterior (ventral) and posterior (dorsal) trunks. Collateral Branches. — The anterior branches are (a) muscular branches (to the quadratus femoris, gemelli, obturator internus, and hamstring muscles); and (b) articular branches (to the hip-joint). These nerves all arise from the anterior aspect of the sacral plexus.