811 AflTEKIES OF THE LOWER EXTEEMITY. back of the lower part of the sacrum and of the coccyx. It gives several branches to the glntens maximus, and anastomoses with branches of the gluteal and lateral sacral arteries, (c) An anastomotic branch passes transversely outwards, over or under the great sciatic nerve, towards the great trochanter .of the femur. It anastomoses with branches of the gluteal, pudic, internal and external circumflex, and the first perforating arteries, taking part in the formation of the so-called " crucial anastomosis." (d) Cutaneous branches, accompanying twigs of the small sciatic nerve, pass round the lower border of the gluteus maximus muscle to the integument, (e) The comes nervi ischiatici (a. comitans n. ischiadici) is a long slender branch which runs down on the surface, or in the substance of the great sciatic nerve. It supplies the nerve, and anastomoses with the perforating arteries and Avith the termination of the profunda. AETEEIES OF THE LOWEE EXTEEMITY. The main artery of each lower limb is continued from the corresponding com- mon iliac artery. It descends as a single trunk as far as the lower border of the popliteus, and ends there by dividing into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. Distinctive names are, however, applied to different parts of the artery, correspond- ing to the several regions throiigh which it passes. Thus in the abdomen it is called the external iliac artery, in the upper two-thirds of the thigh it receives the name of the femoral artery, whilst its lower part, which is situated on the flexor aspect of the knee, is termed the popliteal artery. THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The external iliac artery (a. iliaca externa) extends from the level of the lumbo- sacral articulation to a point beneath Poupart's ligament, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, where it becomes the femoral artery. Its length is about three and a half inches (87 to 100 mm.), and in the adult it is usually somewhat larger than the internal iliac artery. It runs downwards, oiitwards, and forwards along the brim of the pelvis, rest- ing iipon the iliac fascia, which separates it above from the inner border, and below from the anterior surface of the psoas muscle, and it is enclosed with its accompanying vein in a thin fascial sheath. Relations.—Anterior.—It is covered in front by peritoneum, which separates it on the right side from the pelvic colon, iliac colon, and coils of small intestine, and on the right side from the terminal portion of the ileum, and sometimes from the vermiform appendix. The lu'eter, descending behind the peritoneum, sometimes crosses the front of the artery near its origin, and in the female the ovarian vessels cross the upper part of the artery. Near its lower end the artery is crossed anteriorly by the genital branch of the genito- orural nerve and by the deep circumflex iliac vein. In the male this part of the artery is also crossed by the vas deferens, and in the female by the round ligament of the uterus. Several iliac lymphatic glands lie in front of the external iliac artery, and almost invari- ably one of these is directly in front of its termination. Posterior.—The iliac fascia and psoas muscle lie behind the artery. Near its upper end the obturator nerve is also posterior to the vessel. Lateral.—Externally is the genito-crural nerve ; internally, and on a somewhat posterior plane, is the external iliac vein. Branches.—In addition to small branches to the psoas muscle and to the lymphatic glands, two named branches of considerable size spring from the external iliac artery, viz. the deep epigastric and the deep circumflex iliac. (1) The deep epigastric artery (a. epigastrica inferior. Figs. 569 and 572) arises immediately above Poupart's ligament from the front of the external iliac. Curving forward from its origin it lies in the extra-peritoneal fat, turns round the lower border of the peritoneal sac, and runs upwards and inwards along the inner side of the internal abdominal ring and along the outer border of Hesselbach's triangle; it then pierces the transversalis fascia, passes over the semilunar fold of Douglas and enters the sheath of the rectus abdominis. For a short distance it ascends behind the rectus, but it soon penetrates the substance of the muscle, and breaks ixp into