THE ELBOW-JOINT. 271 Since these axes all pass through the shoulder-joint, and since each may present varying degrees of obliquity, it follows that very elaborate combinations are jjossiljle until the movement of circumduction is evolved. In this movement the head of the humerus acts as the apex of a cone of movement Avith the distal end of the humerus, descriljing the base of the cone. The I'ange of the shoulder-joint movements is still further increased from the mobility of the scapula as a whole, and from its association with the movements of the clavicle already described. THE ELBOW-JOINT. This articulation (articulatio cubiti) provides an instance of a diarthrosis capable of performing the movements of flexion and extension about a single axis placed transversely, i.e. a typical ginglymus diarthrosis or hinge-joint. The bones which enter into its formation are the humerus, ulna, and radius. The trochlea of the humerus articulates with the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna (articulatio humero-ulnaris); the capitellum of the humerus articulates with the shallow depression or cup on the superior aspect of the head of the radius (articu- latio humero-radialis). The articular cartilage clothing the trochlea of the humerus terminates in a sinuous or concave margin both anteriorly and posteriorly, so that it does not line either the coronoid or the olecranon fossa. Internally, it merely rounds off the inner margin of the trochlea, but exter- nally it is continuous with Hninerus the encrusting cartilage Anterior lisanieut Internal lateral ligament covering the capitellum, to the margin of which the cartilage extends in all directions, and thus it pre- sents a convex edge in relation to the supra-capi- tellar or radial fossa. The cartilage which lines the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna presents a trans- verse interruption, consider- ably wider on its inner as compared with its outer aspect. Thereby the coro- noid and olecranon seg- ments of the fossa are separated from each other. The cartilage which clothes the coronoid segment is continuous with that which clothes the lesser sigmoid cavity. The shallow cup- shaped depression on the head of the radius is covered by cartilage which rounds off the margin, and is pro- longed without interruption upon the vertical aspect of the head, descending to its lowest level on that part opposed to the lesser sigmoid cavity. Ligaments, ^—Taken as a whole, the ligaments form a complete capsule (capsula articularis), which is not defective at any point, although it is not of equal thick- ness throughout, and certain bands of fibres 'stand out distinctly because of their greater strength. The anterior ligament (Fig. 211) consists of a layer whose fibres run in several Tendon of insertion of biceps muscle Oblique (ulno-radial) ligament Fig. 211.—Anterior View of Elbow-joint.