THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 780 anastomose with branches of the suprascapular and subscapular arteries. It also sends branches backwards through and between the rhomboid muscles, which anastomose with the superficial cervical artery and with the dorsal branches of the intercostal arteries. (C) The suprascapular artery (a. transversa scapulas) springs from the thyroid axis, and terminates in the infraspinous fossa of the scapula. As a . rule it is smaller than the transverse cervical artery. Commencing behind the internal jugular vein, it crosses the scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve, and is covered in front by the sterno-mastoid and the anterior jugular vein; on the left side it lies behind the termination of the thoracic duct also. Continuing outwards and backwards behind the clavicle, and crossing superficially to the third pa.rt of the subclavian artery and the cords Of the brachial plexus, it reaches the suprascapular notch and passes over the suprascapular liga- ment. From this point it descends with the suprascapular nerve through the supraspinous fossa and beneath the supraspinatus muscle, and passing through the great scapular notch under the spino-gleuoid ligament, enters the infraspinous fossa, where it anastomoses with the dorsal branch of the subscapular and with branches of the posterior scapular arteries. Branches.—(") Muscular, to the sterno-mastoid, the subclavius, and the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula. (i) The medullary, a small branch to the clavicle. (r) The suprasternal, to the sternal end of the clavicle and the sterno-clavicular joint. , (d) Acromial branches, which ramify over the acromion process, anastomosing with the acromial branches of the aci'omio-thoracic and the posterior circumflex arteries. (e) Articular, to the acromio-clavicidar and shoulder joints. (/') 'i'he subscapular, which is given off as the artery, passes over the transverse supra- scapular ligament. It passes down into the subscapular fossa, gives branches to the subscapularis, and anastomoses with the branches of the subscaiudar and posterior scapular arteries. ((/) Supraspinous, which ramify in the supraspinous fossa, supplying the muscle, and anastomosing with the posterior scapular. (h) Terminal branches ramify in the infraspinous fossa, and anastomose with the dorsalis scapuhe and with branches of the posterior scapular artery. (3) Internal Mammary Artery (a. mammaria interna, Fig. 552).—This arises from the lower and front part of the subclavian at the inner border of the scalenus anticus and immediately below the origin of the thyroid axis. It terminates behind the inner extremity of the sixth intercostal space by dividing into the musculo-phrenic and the superior epigastric arteries. The artery passes at first downwards, forwards, and inwards, lying upon the pleura, and behind the subclavian vein, the sternal end of the clavicle, and the cartilage of the first rib: it is crossed obliquely from without inwards by the phrenic nerve, which usually passes in front of it. From the cartilage of the first rib it descends vertically, about half-an-inch from the border of the sternum, and lies in the upper part of its course upon the pleura, and in the lower part upon the triangularis sterni. It is covered in front by the cartilages of the upper six ribs, the intervening intercostal muscles, and the terminal portions of the intercostal nerves, and it is accompanied by two vena comites, which unite together above and on its inner side to form a single trunk which terminates in the innominate vein. Branches.—(«) The comes nervi phrenici (a. pericardiaco-phrenica), or superior phrenic artery, is a long slender brancli which is given off from the upper part of the internal mammary. It accompanies the phrenic nerve through the superior and middle mediastinal spaces to the diaphragm, where it anastomoses with the inferior phrenic and musculo-phrenic arteries. In its course downwards the artery gives oft' numerous small branches to the pleura and pericardium, which anastomose with oft'sets of the mediastinal and pericardial branches of the aorta and internal mammaiy arteries, and also with the bronchial arteries, forming the wide-meshed subpleural plexus of Turner. (6) Mediastinal branches (aa. mediastinales anteriores), small and numerous, pass to the areolar tissue of the anterior mediastinal space and supply the remains of the thymus gland and the sternum.