288 THE AETICULATIONS OR JOINTS. of the acetabular fossa, as well as a complete tubular investment for the liganientum teres. Occasionally the synovial bursa, which is subjacent to the tendon of the ilio- psoas muscle, communicates with the interior of the hip-joint throiigh an opening in the anterior wall of the capsule (Fig. 222), situated between the pubo-feinoral ligament and the inner or lower limb of the ilio-femoral ligament.' ' Movements at the Hip-Joint-—The niovements wliich occur at the hip-joint are those of a niultiaxial joint. These are flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, rotation, and circumduction. The range of eacli of tliese movements is less extensive than in the case of the shoulder-joint, be- cause, at the hijJ, the freedom of movement is suljordinated to that stability which is essential alike for the maintenance of tlie erect attitude and for locomotion. When standing at rest in the erect attitude the hip-joint occupies the position of extension, and as the weight of the trunk is trans- mitted in a per])endicular wliich falls Ijehind the centres of the hip-joints, both tlie erect attitude and the extended position are maintained to a large extent mechanically, without sustained mus- cular action, by means of the tension of the ilio-femoral ligament. Moreo\'er, the tension of this ligament is sustained by the pressure of the front of the head and neck of the femur against its .synovial surface. In this association of parts it is important to note that the articular cartilage of the femoral head may be, and in certain races is, prolonged to the front of the femoral neck ; and further, that the constant friction does not destroy the synovial lining of the capsule. Again, the same mechanism which preserves the erect attitude prevents an excessive degree of extension or dor.siflexion. In movement forwards, i.e. ventral flexion, the front of the thigh is approximated to the anterior abdominal wall. The amount of this movement depends upon the position of the knee-joint, because when the latter is flexed the thigh may be brought into contact with the abdominal w-all, whereas when the knee-joint is straightened (i.e. extended) the tension of the hamstring muscles greatly restricts the amount of flexion at the hip-joint. Abduction and adduction are likewise much more restricted than at the shoulder-joint. Abduc- tion is l>rouglit to a close by the tension of the pubo-femoral band and the lower part of the capsule, and, in addition, the upjier aspect of the neck of the femur locks against the margin of tlie acetabulum. Excessive adduction is prevented by the tension of the upper band of the ilio-femoral ligament and the upper part of the capsule. Rotation or movement in a longi- tudinal axis may be either inwards, i.e. towards the front, or outwards, i.e. toward the back. In the former the movemeiit is lirought to a close by the tension of the ischio-cajjsular ligament and back part of the capsule, aided by the muscles on the back of the joint; in the latter— rotation outwards—the chief restraining factor is the outer or upper limb of the ilio-femoral ligament. The total amount of rotation is probalily less than 60°. Circumduction is only slightly less free than at the shoulder, but it is comjilicated by the presei'vation of the balance upon one foot. The value and influence of the liganientum teres are not easily estimated, because it may be absent without causing any known interference with the usefulness of tlie joint. In the erect attitude this ligament lies lax Ijetween the lower part of the femoral head and the acetabular fat. In the act of walking it is rendered tense at the moment when the pelvis is balanced on the summit of the supporting femur. Analysis of this position shows the femur to be adducted, with probably, in addition, a small amount of flexion {i.e. bending forwards?) and internal rotation. Again, this ligament is said to be tense when the thigh is rotated outwards. The equivalent of this movement is doubtless found in the rotation of the pelvis, wliich occurs in the act of walking at the moment of transition from the toe of the sup25orting foot to the heel of the advancing foot. The interest connected with this ligament is perhaps morphological rather than physio- logical. It is believed by some to represent the tendon of a muscle which in birds occupies a position external to the joint capsule. THE KNEE-JOINT. The knee-joint (articulatio genu) is the largest articulation in the body, and its structure is of a very elaborate nature. The part it plays in maintaining the erect attitude materially influences its construction, and special arrangements are provided for the mechanical retention of the joint in the extended position, in view of the fact that the Une of gravity falls in front of the centre of the articulation. Its principal axis of movement is in the transverse direction, consequently it belongs to the ginglymus or hinge variety of the diarthroses. At the same time a slight amount of rotation of the tibia in its long axis is permitted during extreme flexion ; but while this fact is of considerable importance in the study of certain accidents to which the joiut is liable, as well as in the study of its comparative morphology, it is not sufficiently pronounced to interfere with its classification as a hinge-joint. Articular surfaces pertaining to the femur, tibia, and patella, enter into the formation of the knee-joint. The articular surface of the femur extends over a large part of both condyles, and may be divided into patellar and tibial portions