56 GENEEAL EMBRYOLOGY. Placenta Unchanged layer Stratum spongiosum Stratum compactum Placental villus foetal and maternal tissues, through which both the foetal and maternal blood streams circulate. It is well adapted on account of its peculiarities of structure to fulfil the nutriti\ e and respiratory requirements of the embryo. The foetal blood- stream whicli flows through the placental villi and the maternal blood-stream in the placental sinuses are only separated from each other by two layers of foetal ectodermal epi- thelium and a small amount of foetal mesoderm, the latter being practically re- duced to tlie single layer of endo- thelial cells which form the walls of the foetal vessels. Through these layers, by osmosis, and possibly by se- cretion, materials are passed both from mother to embryo and from embryo to mother, the placenta serv- ing not only for purposes of nutri- tion and respira- tion but also as an excretory organ. AVhilst the pla- centa is attaining its full develop- Pcn- cardiuni lecHiua cap- and decifiua F used mesoderm of amnion and chorion Fig. 4-3.—Diagra.m. Latei' stage in the develojunent of the placenta, showing the relations of the foetal villi to the placental sinuses, the fusion of the amnion with the inner surface of the chorion, and the thinning of the fused decidua" (capsularis and vera). ment the anniion is expanding, and finally its outer surface fuses with the inner surface of tlie chorion, consequently, the innermost portion of the placenta is provided with a covering of amnion. The full-time placenta is a discoid mass about 20 to 25 inches (50 to GO cm.) in circumference and 1^ in thickness at its centre; it is much thinner, however, at its margins, where it is continuous with the membranes formed by the fused chorion, decidua \'era, and decidua capsularis. Its weight is about one pound, and it consists from within outwards of the following layers:— . ( Ectoderm. \ Mesoderm. Allantois with fa?tiil vessels Mesoderm. . I Mesoderm. ( lioiMon ■ • 1- ^ 1 hctoderm. Layer of mateniul blood sinuses and remains of the interglandular tissue of tiie stratum compactum. liasal layer. Modified spongy layer. Unchanged layer. Foetal Maternal