34 GENEEAL EMBRYOLOGY. is formed, which projects, forwards and downwards, towards the pericardium. This is the first indication of the stomach. Visceral Clefts and Visceral Arches.—In the lateral wall of the anterior part of the fore-gut, on each side, four incomplete and more or less transverse clefts, the visceral clefts, appear. They are due to outward linear pouchings of the entoderm, and corresponding, but less marked, inward depressions of the ectoderm. The anterior cleft is the l^est marked, and the rest diminish in size from before back- wards. At the bottoms of the clefts the ectoderm and the entoderm are in contact, but the thin membranes thus formed, which intervene between the cavity of the fore-gut and the exterior, are only exceptionally and abnormally perforated in the human subject, though in lower vertebrates they invariably disappear, and the pharyngeal or anterior part of the fore-gut is thrown into continuity, laterally, with the exterior by a niunber of narrow slits, the gill slits, which are used for respiratory purposes. In man and other mammals, however, the floors of the second, third, and fourth clefts are utilised in the formation of the sides of the neck; that of the first cleft is transformed into the tympanic membrane, which separates the external auditory meatus from the cavity of the tympanum. In the further consideration of the fate of the visceral clefts, it must be borne in mind that each consists of an inner or entodermal portion and an outer or ecto- dermal portion. The inner part of the first cleft is converted into the tympanmn and the Eustachian tube, and the outer part becomes the external auditory meatus. No traces of the outer part of the second cleft are left, but a portion of the inner part can be recognised as a slight depression above the tonsil in the lateral wall of the pharynx. Both the outer and inner portions of the third and fourth clefts disappear, but from their inner parts diverticula are given off which form the rudiments of the thymus and the lateral lobes of the thyroid body. The diverticula from which the thymus is developed are derived from the third clefts, whilst each lateral lobe of the thyroid body is formed by a diverticulum from the fourth cleft. The margins of the visceral clefts are thickened by the growth of the mesoderm between the entodermal and ectodermal layers, and they are moulded into a series of five rounded bars, the visceral arches, of which the fifth is not recognisable externally, though it is easily seen internally. The dorsal extremities of the arches terminate at the sides of the head below the level of the neural tube, and in the early stages the ventral ends rest upon the pericardial region. When the neck is formed, it grows forwards from the pericardial region and carries with it the lower ends of the visceral arches, which henceforth terminate in its ventral wall. As the visceral arches are carried forwards the head is strongly curved towards the ventral aspect, and the lower ends of the visceral arches are pushed backwards over each other till the fourth is overlapped by the third, and the third by the second. The first arch is the mandibular, the second the hyoid, the third the tliyro-hyoid ; the fourth and fifth have no special designations. Each arch is covered—externally by ectoderm, internally by entoderm, and its core is formed of mesoderm, in which there is developed a bar of cartilage and a blood vessel called a cephalic aortic arch. At first each arch is limited to the side wall of the fore-gut; but after a time it is prolonged into the ventral wall, encroaching, with the exception of the first, upon the sinus arcuatus. The first, or mandibular arch, is formed between the first visceral cleft and the bucco-pharyngeal membrane. As it develops it forms the lateral and lower boundaries of the stomatodaeal space, and it grows downwards till it meets its fellow of the opposite side in the ventral middle line, immediately in front of the tuberculum impar. Tlie greater part of this arc); is converted into the lower jaw and the soft tissues wliich invest it. From its upper part a process grows forwards, the maxillary process, from which the upper lateral part of the face, between the orbit and the mouth, is developed, and in which the superior maxillary, the malar, and the palate bones, and possibly the internal pterygoid plate also, are developed and ossified. From the posterior border of the outer aspect of the mandibular arch the tragus