259 TEMPOEO-MANDIBULAE JOINT. Subjacent to the preceding ligament there is the ligamentum cruciatum atlantis (Fig. 203), a structure which is very closely associated with the lig. transversuni atlantis. It consists of a crus transversum, formed by the superficial fibres of the transverse ligament of the atlas; a crus mferius, consisting of mesial longi- tudinal fibres which are attached below to the posterior surface of the body of the axis, and above to the crus transversum and a crus superius, also mesial and longitudinal, whose fibres extend from the crus transversum upwards to the posterior surface of the basi-occiput, immediately subjacent to the posterior occipito-axoid ligament. The check ligaments or lateral odontoid ligaments (ligamenta alaria, Fig. 203) are two very powerful, short, and somewhat rounded bands. They are attached mesially to the sides of the summit of the odontoid process, and laterally to the tubercle on the inner aspect of the condylar portions of the occipital bone, viz. the ex- occipital bones. The middle odontoid ligament (ligamentum apicis dentis. Fig. 203) consists of fibres running vertically upwards from the apex of the odontoid process to the mesial part of the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. This ligament to some extent represents an intervertebral disc, in the centre of which, remains of the notochord may be regarded as present. Even in advanced life a small lenticular mass of cartilage, completely sur- rounded by bone, persists in the plane of fusion between the odontoid process and the body of the axis. Movements at these Joints.—At the joints between occiput and atlas the movements are very simple, and consist essentially of movements whereby the head is elevated and dejjressed iipon the vertebral column (nodding movements). In addition a certain amount of oblique movement is possible, during which great stability is attained by resting the front and hinder parts of opposite condyles upon corresjjonding parts of the atlas. The head and the atlas rotate together upon the axis, the pivot of rotation being the odontoid process, and the amount of rotation is limited by the check ligaments. No rotation can occur between the occiput and atlas, and stability between atlas and axis is best attained after a slight amount of rotation, similar to the oblique movement between occiput and atlas. TEMPORO-MANDIBULAR JOINT. This joint is an arthrodi^l diarthrosis. It occurs between the articular part of the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone and the condylar head of the mandible. These two articular surfaces are markedly dissimilar both in size and shape. In its general outline the articular surface of the head of the mandible is cylindrical, having its long axis directed from within outwards and forwards. On the other hand, the articular part of the glenoid fossa in front of the Glaserian fissure is concavo-convex from behind forwards. Its articular surface includes the eminentia articularis, the eminence at the base of the anterior root of the zygoma. The articular surfaces of the bones are clothed by hyaline encrusting cartilage, whilst the joint cavity is divided into an upper and lower part by a meniscus of fibro-cartilage. Ligaments.—The joint is invested by a capsular ligament which is quite com- PiG. 204.—Temporo-Mandibular Joint.