THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 812 Ijranches which anastomose witli terminal offsets of the superior epigastric branch of the internal mammary artery and with the lower intercostal arteries. At the internal abdominal ring in the male the vas deferens, the spermatic vessels, and the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve hook round the front and outer side of Psoas luiisclp Ureter Genito-c-nuiil iiervi» External cutaneous nerve Ilio-inguinal ner\'i' Ilio-lumbar artery Anterior crural nerve Iliacu.s muscle Psoas muscle External iliac artery Deep circumflex iliac artery External iliac \'cin Deep epigastric artery Rouiul liiranieiit Inferior vena cava Cumnion iliac artery Left common iliac \i Right common iliac vein Internal iliac vein Internal iliac aitery Pelvic colon Ureter Uterine artery ()vary Uterus Falloi)iai, tube Obturator artiM-y Superior -vesical artery ISladder Obliterated liypo- gastric artery Urethra ymphysis Fig. 572.—The Ifjac Aiiteuiks and Veins in the Female. the artery, the vas deferens turning inwards ))ehiiid it: whilst in the female the round licrament of the uterus and the yenital l)rancli of the oenito-crural nerve occupy the corresponding positions. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches which spring luainly from the outer side of the artery supply the rectus, the pyraiuidalis, the transversal is, and the oblique muscles of the abdominal wall, and they anastomose with branches of the deep circumflex iliac, the lumbar, and the lower intercostal arteries, (h) Cutaneous branches which pass from tlie front of the deep epigastric pierce the rectus abdoininis and the front part of its sheath,- and terminate in the subcutaneous tissues of Iho anterior abdoiuinal wall, where they anastomose with corresponding branches of the opposite side and with branches of the superficial epigastric artery, (r) Tlie cremasteric branch (a. spermatica externa in the male, a. ligamenti teretis uteri in the female) is small. It descends through the inguinal canal and anastomoses with the external pudic and superficial perineal arteries, and in the male with the spermatic artery also. In the male it accompanies the spermatic cord, supplying its coverings, including the eremaster. In the female it runs with the round liuament. (d) The pubic branch (ramus pubicus) descends either on the outer or the inner side of the crural ring to anastomose with the pubic branch of the obturator artery ; it also anastomoses with its fellow of the 0])posite side. Sometimes when the obturator branch of tlie internal iliac artery is absent, the pubic branch of the deep epigastric artery enlarges and becomes tlie obturator artery, which descends to the obturator foramen