974 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Nasmyth's membrane (enamel cuticle) is an extremelA' thin (^xrhijT) incli) cuticular layer wliich covers the enamel of recently-cut teeth, and is very indestructible, resisting almost all re-agents. Two chief views are held as to its origin. One- that it is the last formed layer of enamel, which has not yet been calcified, and therefore the final jjroduct of the enamel cells. The other that it is produced by the outer layer of cells of the enamel organ. This latter seems to be the more probable view. Dentine (substantia eburnea) is the hard and highly elastic substance, yellowish white in colour, which forms the greater part of the mass of every tooth (Fig. 657). Like the enamel it is highly calcified, but it differs from enamel in containing a very con- siderable amount of organic matter and water incorporated with its salts, which are chiefly phosphate and carbonate of lime. Fresh human dentine contains 10 per cent of water, 28 per cent of organic and 62 jier cent of inorganic material. The organic matter is conqiosed chiefly of collagen, and to a less extent of elastin. The inorganic matter consists of (li calcium phosphate (with a trace of fluoride), (2) calcium carbonate, and (3) maonesiuni phosphate, the percentages ]uvsent in dried dentine being 66-72, 3-36. 1-08 respectively. ' Dentine consists of a highly calcified organic matrix, which is itself practically structureless, although everywhere traversed by tubes—the dentinal tubes—which give to this tissue a finely striated appearance, the strite usually running in wavy lines. The dentinal tuV)es begin by open mouths on the wall of the pulp cavity, whence they run an undulating, and at the same time a somewhat spiral course, towards the periphery of the dentine. They give oft' fine anastomosing branches, and occasionally divide into two. Somewhat reduced in size, they usually end in the outer part of the dentine. The tubules are generally described as being- lined by special sheaths (dentinal sheaths of Netunann) which are composed of a most re- sistant material, and possibly are calcified. It should be mentioned that the presence of these sheaths as separate structures is doubted b}' some authorities, who hold that the part de- scribed asi the sheath is only a modified portion of the dentinal matrix surrounding the tubules. The dentinal tubides are occupied by pro- cesses, prolonged from the outermost cells of the pulp — the odontoblasts. These processes are called after their discoverer. Tomes' fibrils (dentinal filtrils), and they are jirobably sensory in functiftn. The concentric lines of Schreger, frequently seen in the dentine, are due to bends in successive dentinal tubes taking place along regular lines parallel to the periphery of the dentine. Other lines (the incremental "lines of Salter), due to imperfect calcification, are found arching across tlu- substance of the dentine, chiefly in the crown. There must also be mentioned the interglobular spaces, intervals left in the dentine, as a result of imperfect calcification, bounded by the fully calcified surrounding dentine, the contour of which is in the form of a number of small projecting globule.- of dentine. These intergloljular spaces are very numerous in the outer or "granular laverof the dentine, particularly beneath the cementum (see Fig. 649). The crusta petrosa or cementum (substantia qssea) is a layer of modified bone which encases the whole of the tooth except its crown. It begins as a very thin stratum, slightly overlapping the enamel at the neck. From this it is continued, increasing in amount, towards the apex, which latter is formed entirely of this substance. It is relatively less in amount in the child, and increases during life. In places the dentine seems to pass imperceptibly into the crusta petrosa (the "granular layer" of dentine marking the Alveolar periosteum or root-membrane Fig. 657.—Vehtical Section of Canin-b Tooth, to illustrate its various parts, and its structure.