THE LUMBAE PLEXUS. 601 along with the vas deferens and spermatic vessels, enters the inguinal canal at the internal abdominal ring. It terminates by supplying small branches to the skin of the scrotum and adjacent part of the thigh. In the female it accompanies the round ligament to the labium majus. This nerve gives off in its course the follow- ing small branches : (1) to the external iliac artery; (2) to the cremaster muscle ; (3) to communicate with the spermatic plexus of the sympathetic. The crural branch continues the course of the parent nerve into the thigh, lying on the outer side of the femoral artery. It becomes cutaneous by passing through the saphenous opening or the iliac portion of the fascia lata, and supplies an area of skin over Scarpa's triangle, external to that supplied by the ilio-inguinal (Fig. 442, p. 603). It communicates in the thigh with the middle cutaneous branch of the anterior Psoas magnus Branch to hip-joint^Vv p^i Deep branch—^'iy SUPBBFICIAL BRANCH Descending muscular branches Pectineus Ascending branch to obturator externus Internal circumflex artery Obturator nerve Pyriforniis Gluteus niaxiiiius Pelvic fascia Obturator internus Obturator externus Ischium .\scending branch of internal ircumflex artery Quadratus feinoi is Internal circumflex artery Descending muscular branches Adductor magiius ^ _ _ Branch to knee-joint Cutaneous branch 1 X^rx* Branch to b'emoral artery Gracilis Fig. 441.—Scheme of the Course and Distribution of the OsTURATOfe Nerve. crural nerve. Before piercing the deep fascia it gives a minute branch to the femoral artery. The external cutaneous nerve (n. cutaneus femoris lateralis) is only distri- buted to skin (Fig. 440). It arises from the back of the lumbar plexus, and usually from the second and third lumbar nerves. Emerging from the psoas muscle at its outer border, the nerve crosses the ihacus muscle, beneath the fascia iliaca, to reach the anterior superior iliac spine. It enters the thigh beneath the outer extremity of Poupart's ligament, and either over, under, or through the origin of the sartorius muscle. It extends down the outer side of the front of the thigh for a few inches, lying at first beneath the fascia lata, and afterwards in a tubular investment of the fascia. It gives off small branches in this part of its course, and finally, piercing the fascia about four inches below the anterior superior iliac spine, it separates into anterior and posterior terminal branches. The anterior branch is the larger, and is distributed on the outer side of the front of the thigh almost to the knee. The smaller posterior branch supphes the skin of the outer side of the buttock below the great trochanter and of the upper two-thirds of the outer side of the thigh (Fig. 442, p. 603).