MOEPHOLOGY OF THE LIMB-PLEXUSES. 621 Although the inesol:>lastic material of wliicli the limb bud is composed exhibits in itself no segmental divisions at any period of its development, a clear indication of the segmental relations of the limbs is obtained from the arrangement of the limb nerves. Taking tlie nerves which supply the limbs as a guide, the segments engaged in the formation of the upper extremity are the last five cervical and first two thoracic. The lower extremity is related by its nerves to all the luniliar and the first three sacral segments. In each limb, the segments at the preaxial and postaxial borders are only jmrtially concerned in liml) formation. It has lieen already shown that the somatic branches of the nerves enter the substance of the eml:)ryonic limb and divide in their course into dorsal and ventral trunks, which supply the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the liml) Inul. The higher nerves supply the preaxial border, the lower nerves supply the piostaxial Ijorder, while the nerves most centrally situated extend furthest towards the jieriphery of the limb. In order to nnderstand projierly the constitution of the limli-plexuses, it is necessary further to make a comparison of the surfaces and Itorders of the embryonic and adult limlis. Upper Limb.— (A) Borders.—The preaxial border of the upper extremity extends from the middle of the clavicle, in tlie line of the cej^halic A^ein, down the front of the shoulder, the outer side of the arm, forearm and hand, to tlie outer border of the thumb. The postaxial border extends from the middle of the axilla along the inner side of the arm (in the line of the basilic vein), the inner side of the forearm and hand, to the inner liorder of the little finger. (B) Surfaces.—The areas of the limb between these lines, anteriorly and posteriorly, correspond to the ventral and dorsal surfaces of the embryonic limb bud. The ventral surface is represented liy the front of the chest, arm and forearm, and the palm of the hand. The dorsal surface is represented by the scajralar and deltoid regions, the back of the arm, forearm, and hand. Lower Limb.—(A) Borders.—The preaxial border of the lower limb extends from the middle of Poupart's ligament down the inner side oi' the thigh, and leg in the line of the internal sajjhenous vein, to the inner side (_)f the great toe. The postaxial border, beginning at the coccyx, extends along the fold of the nates and the outer side and back of the thigh and leg (in the line of the external saphenous vein) to the onter border of the foot and little toe. (B) Surfaces.—The areas lietween these lines correspond to the piimitive dorsal and ventral surfaces of the eml^ryonic limb bud. Tlie unequal anionnt of rotation in the Tparte of the lower limb oliscnres the relation of fcEtal and adult surfaces, which are most easily made out in the infantile position of the liml)s, witli the thighs and knees flexed and the soles of the feet inverted. The ventral surface of the emliryonic liml) is represented liy the inner side and back of the thigh, the back of the leg, and the sole of the foot. The dorsal surface is represented by the front of the thigh and buttock, tlie front of the leg, and the dorsum of the foot. Composition of the Limb-plexuses.—In all mammals the same definite plan underlies the constitution of the limb-plexuses. The nerves concerned are the anterior primary divisions of certain segmental spinal nerves, which (with certain exceptions at the preaxial and j^ostaxial liorders) are destined wholly and solely for the innervation of tlie limh. Each of the anterior primary divisions engaged divides into a pair of secondary trunks, named dorsal or posterior, ventral or anterior. The dorsal and ventral trunks again subdivide into tertiary trunks, which combine with the corresponding subdivisions of neighbouring dorsal and ventral trunks to form the nerves of distribution. The coml>inations of dorsal trunks provide a series of nerves for the supply of that part of the limli which is derived from the dorsal surface of the embryonic limb l)ud ; the combinations of venlral trmihs give rise to nerves of distribution to the regions corresponding to its ventral surface. The relation of the nerves derived from the limb-plexuses to the areas of the limbs is given in the accompanying tables :— I. Upper Limb. Origin. Nerves. Distribution. Brachial Plexus Dorsal trunks (Posterior cord) Posterior scajDular Posterior thoracic Suprascapular Subscapular (3) Circumflex . (Lesser internal cutaneous ( (Intercosto-humeral (?)) Mnsculo-spiral Ventral trunks {Outer and inner cords) /-Nerve to subclavius Anterior thoracic (2) j ' Musculo-cutaneous Lesser internal cutaneous Internal cutaneous Median.... Ulnar .... Scapular region and shoulder Arm, inner side Back of arm, fore- arm, and hand Front of chest Front of arm and forearm Inner side of arm Front of arm and forearin Front of forearm and hand Dorsal surface Ventral surface