519 FKONTAL LOBE. The inferior prsecentral sulcus consists of a vertical and a horizontal part, and, when developed in a typical manner, it presents a figure like the letter T or F. The vertical portion lies in front of the lower part of the fissure of Eolando, whilst the horizontal part extends obliquely forwards and upwards into the middle frontal convolution. The superior prsecentral sulcus is a short vertical sulcus which lies at a higher level than the inferior pniecentral furrow, in front of the upper part of the fissure of Eolando. It is almost invariably conneqted with the hinder end of the superior frontal sulcus. The anterior central convolution (ascending frontal gyrus) is a long continuous gyrus, which is limited in front by the two prtecentral furrows and behind by the fissure of Eolando. It extends obliquely across the hemisphere from the supero-mesial margin above to the posterior horizontal Umb of the Sylvian fissure below. The superior frontal sulcus extends forwards in a more or less horizontal direc- tion from the sulcus prsecentralis superior. The gyrus frontalis superior is the narrow convolution between the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere and the superior frontal sulcus. It takes a horizontal course to the frontal pole. The inferior frontal sulcus occupies a lower level than the superior frontal furrow. Its hinder end is placed in the angle between the vertical and horizontal parts of the inferior prascentral sulcus, and is not infrequently confluent with one or other of these. It proceeds forwards towards the superciliary margin of the hemisphere and ends a short distance from this in a terminal bifurcation. The gyrus frontalis medius is the name given to the broad convolution which lies between the superior and inferior frontal sulci. The gyrus frontalis inferior is that portion of the outer surface of the frontal lobe which is placed in front of the inferior prtecentral sulcus and below the inferior frontal sulcus. The inferior frontal convolution is cut into three pieces by two anterior limbs of the Sylvian fissure. These are termed the pars basilaris, the pars triangularis, and the pars orbitalis. The pars basilaris is that part which lies between the vertical limb of the inferior pnecentral sulcus and tlie ascending limlj of the Sylvian fissure. It forms the anterior part of the fronto-parietal operculum, and it is traversed in an oblique direction by a shallow but constant furrow, termed the sulcus diagonalis. The pars triangularis is simply another name for the frontal operculum. It is triangular in form, and lies between the anterior ascending and the anterior horizontal limbs of the Sylvian fissure. The pars orbitalis is placed below the anterior horizontal limb of the Sylvian fissure. The inferior frontal convohition j)ossesses a special interest on account of tlie localisation within it, on the left side, of the speech centre. From it, also, tlie front part of the fronto-parietal and the whole of the frontal operculum are developed. This opercular development in connexion with the inferior frontal gyrus constitutes a leading j)oint of difference between the brain of man and that of the ape. Even in the highest ape the inferior frontal convolution is not opercular. The frontal operculum is not present and the anterior part of the insula is exposed on the surface. Probably the excess of growth which determines the formation of the frontal operculum in man has some connexion with the development of the speech centre. The sulcus paramedialis is the term applied to a series of short irregular depres- sions or furrows, arranged longitudinally, close to the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere. These rudimentary sulci partially subdivide the superior frontal con- volution into an upper and a lower part, and they are of interest in so far that they are never developed in the ape, and are deeper and better marked in the higher types of human brain. The sulcus frontalis medius (Eberstaller) proceeds horizontally forwards in the forepart of the middle frontal convolution, so as to subdivide it into an upper and a lower part. When the furrow reaches the superciliary margin of the hemisphere it bifurcates, and its terminal branches spread out widely and constitute a trans- verse furrow, called the fronto-marginal sulcus. The sulcus frontalis medius is only found in man and the anthropoid apes. It is not present in any of the lower apes.