THE ARTICULATIONS OE JOINTS. 272- directions—obliquely, transversely, and vertically—and of these the vertical fibres are of most importance. It is attached above to the upper margins of the coronoid and supracapitellar fossae; below, to the margins of the coronoid process and to the orbicular ligament of the superior radio-ulnar joint, but some loosely-arranged fibres reach as far as the neck of the radius. The lateral portions of this ligament, which are situated in front of the capitellum and inner margin of the trochlea respectively, are much thinner and weaker than the central part. Fibres of origin of the brachialis anticus muscle arise from the front of this ligament. The posterior ligament is an extremely thin, almost redundant layer. Superiorly it is attached, in relation to the margin of the olecranon fossa, at a varying distance from the trochlear articular surface, and inferiorly to the summit and sides of the lip of the olecranon process. Externally some of its fibres pass from the posterior aspect of the capitellum to the posterior border of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. This ligament derives material support from, and participates in the movements of, the triceps muscle, since they are closely adherent to each other in the region of the olecranon process. The internal lateral ligament (lig. collaterale ulnare. Figs. 211 and 212) is a fan- Uhia Traiis\ erse part of internal lateral ligament Fig. 212.—Elbow-joint (iuuer aspect). shaped structure of unequal thickness, but its margins, which are its strongest bands, are continuous with the adjoining parts of the anterior and posterior ligaments. By its upper end it is attached to the anterior, inferior, and posterior aspects of the internal condyle of the humerus. By its broad lower end it is attached to the inner margin of the greater sigmoid cavity, so that the anterior hand is associated principally with the inner margin of the coronoid process, and the posterior hand with the inner margin of the olecranon process, while the intermediate weaker portion sends its fibres downwards to join a transverse land, sometimes very strong, which bridges the notch between the adjoining inner margins of the coronoid and olecranon processes. The external lateral ligament (lig. collaterale radiale. Fig. 211) is a strong flattened band attached superiorly to the lower and posterior aspects of the external condyle of the humerus. It completes the continuity of the capsule on the outer side, and blends inferiorly with the orbicular ligament, on the surface of which its fibres may be traced both to the anterior and posterior ends of the lesser sigmoid {