273 THE KADIO-ULNAK JOINTS. notch. Both of the lateral ligaments are intimately associated with the muscles which take origin from the inner and outer condyles of the humerus. Synovial Pads of Fat (Fig. 213).—Internal to the capsule, there are several pads of fat situated be- tweenitand the sy- ^'^mX ulnar joints possess a common joint cavity. It should be specially noted that the upper part of the neck of the radius is surrounded by this synovial membrane. Movements at the ElbewJijint.—The movements of the radius and uhia upon the humerus have already been referred to as those characterising a uniaxial joint constructed on the j^lan of a hinge. In this case the axis of the joint is obliquely transverse, so that in the extended position the humerus and ulna form an obtuse angle open towards the radius, whereas in the flexed j)08ition the hand is carried inwards in the direction of the mouth. Extreme flexion is checked by the soft jiarts in front of the arm and of the fore-arm coming into contact, and extreme extension by the restraining effect of the ligaments and muscles. In each case the movement is checked before eitlier coronoid or olecranon j^i'ocesses come into contact with the humerus. Tlie anterior and posterior bands of the internal lateral ligament are important factors in these results. Lateral movement of the ulna is not a characteristic movement, altliough it may occur to a slight extent, owing to a want of complete adaptation between the trochlear surface of the humerus and the sigmoid cavity of the ulna. This incongruence is noteworthy since the inner lip of the troclilea is prominent in front, and the outer lip is prominent behind. Conseffuently, this latter part is associated with a surface on the outer side of the olecranon which is only utilised in complete extension. The capitellum and the opposing surface upon the head of the radius are always in varying degrees of contact. The head of the radius participates in the movements of flexion and exten- sion, and is most closely and completely in contact with the humerus during the jiosition of semi- flexion and semi-jjronation. In complete extension a very considerable part of the capitellum is uncovered by the radius. These articulations, which are two in number, are situated at the proximal and distal ends of the radius and ulna. They provide an adaptation whereby the radius rotates around a longitudinal axis in the movements of pronation and supination, and hence this form of uniaxial diarthrosis is termed lateral ginglynius. Superior Radio-ulnar Joint (articulatio radio-ulnaris proximalis).—In this joint the articular surfaces which enter into its formation are the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna and the lateral aspect of the head of the radius. In each case the articular cartilage is continuous with an articular surface entering into the Synovial mem- brane (Fig. 213) lines the entire capsule and clothes the pads of fat above referred to, as well as those portions of bone enclosed within the capsule which are not covered by articular cartilage. By its disposition the elbow and the superior radio- novial membrane. Small pads are so placed as to lie im- mediately in front of the coronoid and supra-capitellar fossee, but a larger one projects to- wards the olecra- non fossa. Fig. 213.—Vertical Section theodgh the Trochlear Part of the Elbow-joint. THE RADIO-ULNAR JOINTS. 18