1144 UROGENITAL SYSTEM. is developed superficial to the cloacal membrane which separates the ectodermal cloacal fossa from the endodermal cloaca. This ectodermal part of the urethral canal is formed by the meeting of the lateral boundaries of the cloacal fossa, where they lie in front of the anol opening, and also by the closing of the lips of a groove which appears on the sexual eminence. The lateral boundaries of the fossa, fusing in the middle line, close in the portion of the canal which in the adult is surrounded by the corpus spongiosum, while the portion which traverses the glans penis (?'.e. the fossa navicularis) is formed from the groove which appears on the sexual eminence. The median raphe, extending from the anus forwards along the urethral surface of the penis in the adult, indicates the line of fusion along which the spongy part of the urethra has been closed in and converted into a canal. The last portion of the fossa to be closed in is the extreme anterior part which lies just at the base of the glans. In some rare cases failure of the m;u'gins of the fossa to luiite in this situation causes the urethra to appear to terminate at this point. In other cases a greater arrest of development leaves the cloacal fossa open, and we have a condition maintained which resembles to a certain extent the normal arrangement in the female. To such abnormalities of the urethra the term hypospadias is applied. Female Urethra. — In the female the urethra is developed from the part of the anterior portion of the cloaca which lies below the develojjing bladder, antl above the openings of the Miillerian and Wolffian ducts. The part Ijelow these openings, the urogenital canal, during the course of development becomes shorter and shorter, and finally forms the epithelium at the bottom of the urogenital cleft immediately surrounding the urethi'al and vaginal openings. Thus in the adidt the urethra, which originally led into the urogenital canal, opens into the urogenital fissure. In some manmials, such as the hedgehog, the shortening of the urogenital canal does not take place in the female during development, and in these animals a single aperture exists for the urinary and genital systems. The hymen is placed where the fused Miillerian ducts (vagina) open into the urogenital canal. Sexual Glands. — In the development of the sexual glands, male and female, a differentiated thickened portion of the peritoneal epithelium is first recognised. This specialised epithelium, which has received the name of germinal epithelium, is situated to the inner side of the mesonephros and of the Wolffian and Miillerian ducts. Here it covers a longitudinally-disposed ridge or elevation called the genital ridge. The germinal epithelium is not strictly limited to this ridge, but extends to some extent beyond its limits. The genital ridge is soon found to have numerous epithelial cells embedded in its connective-tissue stroma which appear to originate, in both sexes, by a proliferation from the deep surface of the germinal epithelium covering the ridge. From these epithelial cells the seminal tubules of the male, and Graafian follicles with their contained ova of the female are developed. In the. male, as earl}' as the thirty-third day, the epithelial cells embedded in the stroma of the developing testis have become arranged into a network of anastomosing cords within which certain larger cells are seen to be irregularly scattered. These larger cells have received the name of primitive sperm cells, and are relatively few in number. They undergo frequent division, and are in tlie later stages not to be distinguished from the other cells of the cords. The cellular cords \uidergo direct transformation into the seminal tubules of the testis, but the excretory apparatus, including the rete testis and tubuli recti, is derived by outgrowths from the anterior tubules of the mesonephros. At a very early stage the superficial part of the stroma, of the developing testis, becomes denser, and gives origin to the tunica alhuginea. It has been stated that the sexual epithelium of the testis, unlike that of the ovary, is not derived from the germinal epithelium, but that it has its origin in an outgrowth of the mesonepln-os. The coui-se of the development of the sexual glands is without doxibt extremely difficult to follow. In the female large epithelial cells are found in the stroma of the developing ovary, beneath the germinal epithelium, as early as the thirty-third day. These primitive ova are much more numerous than the primitive sperm cells of the male, and form a very characteristic feature of the developing ovar}'. At first they lie isolated, but later—about the fifth week—they become surrounded by other smaller cells having a like origin from the germinal epithelium. Each primitive ovum surrounded by its cells becomes a primitive follicle, the further development of which has already been described (p. 112.5). The proliferation of cells from the germinal epithelium goes on until the seventh month, and during the later stages the epithelium has the appearance of growing down into the stroma in the form of long branching cellular processes which break up into little nests of