673 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. forwards on each side to form the cavernous plexus of the penis (plex. cavernosus penis). These nerves pierce the layers of the triangular ligament, and after supplying the membranous urethra at the root of the penis, give off branches which enter and supply the corpus cavernosum. The cavernous nerves communicate with branches of the pudic nerve, and give offsets to the corpus spongiosum and the spongy portion of the urethra. d. The uterine plexus passes upwards for a short distance with the uterine artery between the layers of the broad ligament, and is then distril)uted to the surfaces and substance of the organ. It communicates between the layers of the broad ligament with the ovarian plexus. The vaginal plexus is formed mainly by the visceral branches of the sacral nerves entering the pelvic plexus. It supplies the wall and mucous membrane of the vagina and urethra, and provides a cavernous plexus for the clitoris (plex. cavemoSus clitoridis). The uterine and vaginal plexuses of the female correspond 0 the prostatic plexus of the male. DEVELOPMENT OF THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. There are two diametrically opposite views of the mode of development of the sym- pathetic system. In birds and mammals the first rudiment of the sympathetic cord occurs in the formation of a longitudinaP unsegmented column of mesoblastic cells (which stain more deeply than the mesoblast in which they lie) on either side of the aorta, and coterminous with it. This column of cells becomes joined at an early stage by the visceral branches of the spinal nerves which grow inwards from the main nerve trunks into the splanchnic area, and result from the division of the nerve into somatic and visceral parts. These visceral branches constitute the white rami communicantes. They receive con- tributions usually from both dorsal and ventral roots, and gradually approaching the above-men- tioned column of mesoblastic cells, they become intimately associated with the cells. In some cases fibres of the visceral nerves pass over the cellular column into the splanchnic area without connexion with it (Fig. 483). By the junction of these visceral nerves with the cells of the column, certain cells -persist and produce the ganglia. The intervening portions of the column, by changes in the cells, and by the addition possibly ■of fibres belonging to the visceral nerves, give I'ise to the commissural cords. The cellular colunm, besides producing the gangliated cord, by the further growth of its cells and their extension centrally and peripherally, produces the gray rami communicantes, parts of the peri- pheral branches, and the peripheral (collateral and terminal) ganglia, as well as the medullary portion of the suprarenal capsule. The cervical, lower lumbar, and sacral portions of the sympa- thetic gangliated cord are secondary extensions from the more primitive condition, gradually growing upwards and downwards along the main vessels. These portions of the system are not provided with white rami communicantes. The ganglia of the sympathetic assume their segmented appearance (1) from the persistence of the primitive ■cells and their connexion with the spinal nerves by means of the white and gray rami communicantes, and (2) from the way in which the primitive column is moulded by the surrounding structures (bones, segmental arteries, etc.). 43 Flu. 482.—The Developjiext of the Sympathetic Gangliated Cord. Sy, Sympathetic cord ; Spl, Splanchnic branches of spinal nerves (white rami communi- cantes) ; V.S, Vertebral Segments ; D.G, Dorsal sanglia.