OSTEOLOGY. 21G posterior inferior iliac spine is longer, measuring on an average 50 mm. (2 inches) in the female, as contrasted with 40 mm. (If inches) in the male. The inlet in the female is large and oval or reniform, as compai'ed with the cribbed and heart-shaped aperture in the male. The sacro-vertebral angle is more pronounced in the female, and the obliquity of the inlet greater. The sacrum is shorter and wider. The posterior superior iliac spines lie wider apart; the pubic crests are longer; and the pubic spines are separated by a greater interval than in man. The outlet is larger; the tubero- sities of the ischia are far apart; and the coccyx does not project forward so much. The curve of the sacrum is liable to very great individual variation. As a rule the curve is more uniform in the male, whilst in the female it tends to be flatter above and more accentuated below. There is a greater proportionate width between the acetabular hollows in the female than in the male. Of much importance from the standpoint of the obstetrician are the various diameters of the true pelvis. In regard to this it is worthy of note that the plane of " greatest pelvic expansion " extends from the luiion between the second and third sacral vertebrae behind, to the middle of the symphysis pubis in front, its lateral boundaries on either side corresponding with the mid-point of the inner surface of the acetabulum ; whilst the plane of "least pelvic diameter" lies somewhat lower, and is defined by lines passing through the sacro-coccygeal articulation, the ischial spines, and the lower third of the symphysis pubis (Norris). Subjoined is a table showing the principal average measurements in the two sexes :— Males. Females. • Maxiuumi distance between the iliac crests Distance between the anterior superior iliac spines Distance between the last lumbar spine and the front of the symphysis j'uViis Ill in., or 282 mm. 9-h in., or 240 mm. 7 in., or 176 mm. lOf in., or 273 mm. 9f in., or 250 nun. 7^ in., or 180 mm. True Pelvis. Males. Females. Inlet. Outlet. Inlet. Cavity. Outlet. Greatest. Least. Antero-posterior (conju- gate) diameter Oblique diameter . Transveree diameter 4 in., or 101 mm. 4|^ in. or 120 mm. 5 in., or 127 mm. 3f in., or 95 mm. 3^ in., or 88 mm. 3\ in., or 88 mm.' 4|- in., or 110 mm. 5 in., or 125 muL 5^- in., or 135 mm. 5 in., or 127 mm. 4| in., or 125 mm. 4f in., or 110 mm. 4| in., or 110 mm. 4^ in., or 115 mm. 4J- in., or 115 mm. 41 in., or 110 mm. Growth of the Pelvis.—From the close association of the pelvic girdle with the lower limb we find that its growth takes place concurrently -with the development of that member. At birth the lower limbs measure but a fourth of tlie entire body length ; consequently at that time the pelvis, as compared with the head and trunk, is relatively small. At this period of life the bladder in both sexes is in greater part an abdominal organ, whilst in the female the uterus has not yet sunk into the true pelvic cavity, and the o-\'aries and Fallopian tubes rest in the iliac fossffi. The sacro-vertebral angle, though readily recognised, is as yet but faintly marked. Coincident with the remarkable growth of the lower limbs and the assumption of the erec^t position when the child begins to walk, striking changes take place in the form and size of tlie jjelvis. These consist in a greater expansion of the iliac liones necessarily associated with the growth of the muscles which control the movements of the hip, together with a marked increase in the sacro-vertebral angle due to the development of a forward lumbar curve ; at the same time,, the weight of the ti-unk being thrown on the sacrum causes the elements of that bone to sink to a lower level between the innominate bones. The cavity of the true j^elvis increases in size ju'oportionally, and the viscera afore-mentioned now Ijegin to sink down and have assumed a position within the pelvis by the fiftli or sixth year. The extension of the thighs in the upright position necessarily brings about a more pronoimced jielvic obliquity, whilst the .stoutness and thickness of the ilium over the up]ier jiart of the acetalndum is much increased to withstand the pressure to which it is obviously sul)jected. Coincident witli this is the gradual development