940 THE EESPIEATORY SYSTEM. present in the pulmonary substance as an accessor)' branch, which proceeds from the main stem as it traverses the lower lobe of the right side. It receives the name of tlie cardiac bronchus. Structure of the Lung. The lung is constructed so that the blood which enters it through the pulmonary artery is brought into the most intimate relation with the air which enters it through the trachea and bronchi. An interchange of materials between the blood and the air is thus rendered possible, and the object of respiration is attained. As a result of this inter- change the dark impure blood which flows into the lung through the pulmonary artery is rendered bright red and arterial. Lobules of the Lung.—A thin layer of subpleural connective tissue lies subjacent to the continuous coating which the lung receives from the visceral pleura. From the deep surface of this subpleural layer fine septal processes penetrate into the substance of the lung, and these, with the connective tissue which enters at the hilus upon the vessels and bronchi, constitute a supporting framework for the organ. The lung is lobular, and on the surface the small polygonal areas which represent the lobules are indicated by the pigment present in the connective tissue septa which intervene between them. Although no pigment is present, the lobular character of the lung is particularly well marked in the foetus, and with a little care the surface lobules in the foetal lung can be separated from each other by gently tearing through the intervening connective tissue. The lobules thus isolated are pyriform or pyramidal in foi'm. The broad bases of these lobules abut against the subpleural layer, whilst each of the deep narrow ends receives a minute division from the bronchial system of tubes. The lobules which lie more deeply in the substance of the organ are not so large, and are irregularly polygonal in form. Alveolar Ducts, Infundibula, and Air-cells. — The larger branches of the bronchi, as they traverse the lung, give oft' numerous divisions which, by repeated branching, ultimately form a system of tubes which pervade the entire organ. At first the bronchial divisions come off" at very acute angles, but as the finer ramifications are reached this character becomes much less apparent. There is no anastomosis between the bronchial branches. Within the various lobules the finer bronchioles send off' further branches, which pro- ceed at right angles fi-om them. Soon the ultimate tubes are reached. These are not cylindrical, but have their walls pouched out by numei'ous hemispherical diverticula. Such a bronchiole is culled an alveolar duct, and the diverticula are the air-cells or alveoli. Finally the alveolar duct divides into two, three, or more terminal parts, which become expanded and form the club-shaped, blind terminations of the bronchial system of tubes. These cajcal endings are the infundibula, and the walls of each are thickly covered by alveoli or air-cells, all of which open into the infundibulum as into a corridor. Structure of the Bronchi.—When the large bronchi enter the lung they become cylindrical, and lose the flattening on the posterior aspect which is characteristic of the primary bronchi outside the lung. They possess the same coats as are present in the case of the trachea and primary bronchi, but as the tubes become smaller by repeated division, these coats become correspondingly thinner and finer. Certain marked differences also in the manner in which the constituents of these coats are arranged become apparent. In the external fibro-cartilaginous coat the cartilage is no longer present in the form of incomplete rings, but in irregular plates or flakes deposited at A'arious points around the wall. As the tubes diminish these cartilaginous deposits show a corresponding reduc- tion in size, initil at last, in bronchi of 1 mm. in diameter, they disappear altogether. The glands in relation to the tubes for the most part cease to exist about the same point. The muscular or middle coat, which in the trachea and primary bronchi is confined to the back wall of the tube, forms a continuous layer of cii'culai-ly-arrangcd bundles in the l)ronchi as they ramify within the lung. Spasmodic contraction of the muscular coat gives rise to the serious symptoms which accompany asthmatic affections. The muscular fibres of the middle coat may be traced as far as the infundibula, on the walls of which thej^ are present in considerable numljers. The mucous lining of the tubes becomes greatly thinned as it is followed into the smaller bronchioles. It contains a lai'ge number of longitudinally- arranged elastic fibres, and is disposed in longitudinal folds, so that when the tube is cut across tiie limien presents a stellate appearance. The mucous membrane is lined by ciliated colunuiar epithelium. Structure of the Infundibula and Alveoli.—The walls of the infundibula and alveoli arc exceedingly fine and delicate, l)ut nevertheless constituents continuous with those observed in the three coats of a bronchus are found entering into their construction. The epithelium is reduced to a single layer. Further, it is no longer columnar and