PREFACE. Till devoted to the general principles and elementary facts of Embryology. Then follow, in an order best suited for the student, the chapters dealing with the various systems of organs; whilst the last seventy-live pages are used for the purpose of applying the information conveyed in the preceding part of the book to the practice of luedicine and surgery. Each chapter is more or less complete in itself, althougli an effort luas been made to weld them all into one consistent whole. The numerous illustrations which appear in the text are all new in the sense that in no case has an old drawing or an old l)lock been used. Further, the vast majority of the illustrations are new in the sense tliat they are original. The very few that are not have been taken from monographs dealing with the subjects so illustrated, and in every case the source from which these have been obtained is acknowledged in the text. The drawings for eacli section were prepared imder the personal supervision of its author, and, with the exception of the figures in two chapters, they are the work of Mr. J. T. Murra}'. This talented artist has devoted much time to the undertaking, and the reader can judge for himself the success which has attended his efforts. The Editor cannot sufficiently express his indebtedness to Mr. Murray for the great technical skill and the patience which lie brought to bear upon this extremely trying and difficult work. The chapter on Osteology has been illustrated by Mr. W. C. Stevens ; that upon Embryology by the authors themselves ; whilst the microscopical drawings in the section on the ]5rain and Cord were executed by Mr. Wm. Cathie. It is also necessary to mention tliat the coloured outlines representing the attachments of the muscles on the figures of the bones were mapped in by Professor A. M. Paterson. The Editor has to thank his former Assistant, Professor A. F. Dixon of Cardiff, for much help in the correction of the proofs. TiiiNiTV College, Dublin, June 1902.