1070 THE DTOESTIVE SYSTEM. two layors of Llit; lossur oiiu'iitum, with tlu; ])Ortal vein behind and the he])atie artorv to its left. It next descends l)ehind the first ])art of the duodeiuun (luu;. 71S), and then .l)etween the pancreas and descending duo- denum. Finally, it meets the pancreatic duct, and tlie two, running together, pierce the inner wall of tlie descending duodenum very obliquely, and 0])en Ity a common orifice on the l)ile ])a|»illa (papilla duodenalis), about ',^1 or 4 inches (8"7 to 10 cm.) beyond the pylorus (see p. 1019). The length of the common bile-duct is aboutinches (7ii mm.), and its diameter, which is very varia))le, is generally al)out } inch (0 to 7 mm.). Structure of Excretory Ducts. -With thu exception of the jjeritoncal coat, whieii i.s absent, the hepatic, cystic, and common bilc-dncts, agree with the gall-bladder in general structure. Tlu- bile and jiancreatic duils, in jjiercing the wall of the <lu()(U'niun, run oliJiquely through its watfi for about i or 4' of an inch (12 to 18 mm.), and, as a rule, do nut unite until they have almost reached the opening on the liile papilla (Fig. 719). This orifice is very nuicli smaller than cither duct, and the short and relatively wide conunon cavity which ])rece(les it is some- times known as the "ani])ulla of Vater." Occasionally the cystic and hepatic ducts open into the duodenum separately. Sometimes, too, the cystic duct joins the right lie])atic duct instead of the hepatic duct ])ro])er. Vessels ob' the Liveh. 'I'iie liver derives its blood - supply from two sources, namely — (1) the portal vein, which conveys to it, for further elaboration, the blood from the digestive system, laden with the products of digestion ; and (2) the hepatic artery, whieli supplies it with blood for the nourishment of its own tissue. All tlie blood is returned from tlie liver to the inferior vena cava by the hepatic veins. The portal vein and the hepatic artery jtass uj) to the liver between the two layers of tlie lesser omentum and in front of the foramen of Winslow. Here they are accom- panied by the hepatic duct, which lies to the right, whilst tlie artery is placed to the left, and the portal vein behind both. In this order they enter the portal fissure, and there becoming re-arranged, so that the vein lies behind the artery in the middle and the duct in front, each breaks up into two chief branches—a right and a left—and several smaller ones, which enter the liver substance, surrounded by a ]jrolongation of the con- nective tissue coat of the liver, known as Glisson's capsule. Within the organ the three vessels run and divide together, so that every branch of the portal vein is accompanied by a corresjtonding (but much smaller)"branch of the hepatic artery and of the hepatic duct: and the three, surrounded by a prolongation of Glisson's cajjsule, and accompanied by branches of the hepatic nerves and lymphatics, run in S2)eeial tunnels of the liver substance, which are known as portal canals (Fig. 720, B). Finally, the portal vein breaks up into interlobular veins (vena; interlobulares) which lie in the spaces between the liver lobules (Fig. 721). The branches of these enter the lobules on all sides, and unite with their capillary network, which converges towards the centre of the lobule, and joins the intralobular or central vein (vena centralis). The hepatic artery similarly divides into interlobular branches (rami arteriosi iiiterlobidares) of a very small size, which accompany the interlobular branches of the vein, and supply the tissue and the vessels between the lobules. In addition, the hepatic artery gives off vaginal branches to supply the walls of the vessels and ducts, and the connective tissue in the portal canals ; and capsular branches, which are distributed to the fibrous coat of the liver. The hepatic veins are two large and several small veins, which converge from the different portions of the liver (Fig. 720, A) to the vena cava. Their ultimate radicles are the intralobular or central veins, which run down thi'ough the centre of the liver lobides, and ])assing out at the base, join the sublobular veins : these by their imion finally form the hepatic veins. The two chief hepatic veins, which are of very large size, open into M c L FiC. 719. — DiAiatAM SHOWING THE Bn.E AND Pancreatic Ducts piEiiciNo THE Wall of the Duodenum obliquely. ADS, Accessory pancreatic (hid (of Saiitoriiii); C, Circular iinis- cular fibres ; L, Loiigitiuiinal unisciilav lilires : M. Mucniis coat.