NORMA FEONTALIS OF THE SKULL. 147 margin of the outer wall is stout and formed by the malar bone, behind which, formed in part by the orbital process of the malar bone and the malar edge (margo zygomaticus) of the great wing of the sphenoid, it forms a fairly thick partition between the orbit in front and the temporal fossa behind. Crossing this surface from above downwards close to the anterior extremity of the spheno-maxillary fissure is the suture between the malar bone and the great wing of the sphenoid (sutura. spheno-zygomatica). This wall is pierced in front by one or two small canals (foramen zygomatico-orbitale), which traverse the malar bone and allow of the transmission of the temporal and malar branches of the orbital portion of the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve. The inner wall of the orbit is formed from before backwards by a small part of the frontal process of the superior maxilla, by the lachrymal, and by the os planum or orbital plate of the ethmoid (lamina papyracea ossis ethmoidalis), posterior to which is a small part of the lateral aspect of the body of the sphenoid in front of the optic foramen. Above, the orbital plate of the frontal bone forms a continuous suture from before backwards with the bones just enumerated; whilst below, the lachrymal and the orbital plate of the ethmoid articulate with the orbital plate of the superior maxilla; posteriorly the hinder extremity of the os planum and the fore part of the body of the sphenoid articulate with the orbital process of the palate. The orbital surface of the lachrymal bone is divided into two by a vertical ridge—the lachrymal crest (crista lachrymalis posterior)—which forms in front the posterior half of a hollow, the lachrymal groove (sulcus lachrymalis), the anterior part of which is completed by the channelled posterior border of the frontal process of the superior maxilla. In the lachrymal groove or fossa (fossa sacci lachrymalis) is lodged the lachrymal sac, whilst passing from it and occupying the canal, of which the upper opening is at present seen, is the membranous nasal duct. The extremely thin wall of the lower part of the lachrymal fossa separates the orbit from the fore part of the middle meatus of the nasal fossa. To the inner side of the upper and fore part of the lachrymal bone, and separated from the orbit merely by the thickness of that bone, is the passage leading from the nose to the frontal sinus (infundibulum ethmoidale), whilst the part of the bone behind the lachrymal crest forms the thin partition between the orbit and the anterior ethmoidal cells. Behind, where the body of the sphenoid forms part of the inner wall of the orbit, the sphenoidal air sinus is in relation to the apex of that space, though here the partition wall between the two cavities is much thicker. The skeleton of the face on its anterior surface is formed by the two superior maxillae, the frontal processes of which have been already seen to pass up to articu- late with the internal angular processes of the frontal bone, thus forming the lower halves of the inner margins of the orbit. Joined to the upper jaws externally are the malar or cheek bones (ossa zygomatica), which are supported by their union with the temporal bones posteriorly through the medium of the zygomatic arches. The suture which separates the malar from the superior maxilla (sutura zygomatico- maxillaris) commences above about the centre of the lower orbital margin and passes obliquely downward and outward, its lower end lying in vertical line with the outer orbital margin. TJie two superior maxillse are separated by the nasal fossae, which here open anteriorly. Above, the two nasal bones are wedged in between the frontal processes of the maxilla; whilst below the nasal aperture, the maxillse themselves are united in the middle line by the intermaxillary suture (sutura intermaxillaris). The nasal aperture (apertura pyriformis), which lies below and in part between the orbits, is of variable shape and size—usually pyriform, it tends to be long and narrow in Europeans, as contrasted with the shorter and wider form met with in the negroid races. Its edges are formed below and on either side by the free curved margin of the body and the frontal process of the superior maxilla; and above, and partly at the sides, by the free border of the nasal bones. In the middle line, inferiorly, corresponding to the upper end of the intermaxillary suture there is an outstanding process—the anterior nasal spine (spina nasalis anterior) formed by the coalescence of spicules from both maxillse; arising from this, and passing backwards and upwards, is a thin bony partition—the osseous