THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 574 primary division of a spinal nerve (Fig. 421, p. 567). It occupies an intercostal space; near its origin it possesses gray and ivhite rami communicanies; it courses through the interval between the intercostal muscles; it supplies branches to these muscles and gives off, when it reaches the side of the chest, a lateral branch, which, piercing the external intercostal muscle, is distri- l)uted to an area of skin over the lateral part of the trunk, contiguous with a similar area behind, innervated by the cutaneous branches o'f the posterior primary division of the same nerve. The lateral branch generally subdivides into a smaller pos- terior and a laiger anterior trunk, as it pierces the muscles clothing the wall of the chest. The an- terior primary divi- sion of the nerve then pursues its course obliquely for- wards to the side of the sternum, where, after piercing the pectoral muscles, it appears superficially as the anterior ter- minal cutaneous branch. This sup- plies an area of skin continuous with that supplied by the anterior part of the lateral branch of the same nerve. Sucli a nerve thus sup- plies, by means of its lateral and anterior branches, an area of skin wliicli (with the area sup- plied by the cuta- neous branch of its posterior primary division) forms a continuous and un- interrupted belt, extending from the middle line behind to the middle line innervate in their Fig. 425. Superficial Division. Ascending branches (Asc.)— S.O. Small occipital. G.A. Great auricular. S.C. Superficial cervical. -The-Ceuvical Plexu.s. Internal branches— Communicating to Hy. Hypoglossal. Va. Vagus. Sy. Sympathetic gauglion. D.Cerv. Descendens cervicis. Descending (supra-clavicular) branches (Desc.)— Acr. Acromial. CI. Clavicular. St. Sternal. Deep Division. External branches— Communicating (C.) to spinal acces- sory nerve (Hp. Ace). Muscular— S.M. Sterno-niastoid. Trapezius. Levator anguli iicapuloe. Scalenus medius. Muscular— M' Tr. L.A.S. Sc.M. Rectus capitis auticus minor, and lateralis. Longus colli, and rectus capitis anticus major. Scalenus anticus. Phrenic nerve. Nerve to genio-hyoid. Th.Hy. Nerve to thyro-hyoid. D.Hy. Descendens hypoglossi. Ansa hypoglossi. Nerve to .sterno-thyroid. Nerve to sterno-hyoid. Nerves to omo-hyoid. M-. Sc.A, Phr. G.Hy. Ansa. S.Th. S.Hy. O.Hy. in front. The lateral and anterior branches of the nerve course tlie intercostal and other muscles, to be afterwards mentioned in detail