1049 THE PEEITONEUM. liver varies according as it is traced at the riglit, tlie left, or the middle portion of the liver. It clothes the riglit portion as far l:>ack as the lower edge of the un€0\-ered area of the liver, where it is reflected on to the posterior \\-dll of the abdomen and the top of the right kidney (constitut- ing the hepato-renal ligament), as the lower layer of the coronary ligament. On the left portion it-is continued back as far as the posterior border of the left lolie—or even a little way on to its •iujjper surface—whence it passes to the diaphragm as the inferior layer of the left lateral ligament. The middle region of the under surface it clotlies only as far as the portal fissure and the fissure of the ductus venosus ; from these the peritoneum is carried down as the auteiior layer of the lesser omentum to the lesser curvature of the stomach, where we shall ix'turn to it directly. The jjeiritoneum, which j^asses back on the under surface of the diaphragm to the left of the liver, is continued down on the posterior abdominal wall, behind the fundus of the stomach and the spleen, until the left kidney is reached. It covers the ujaper and outer part of the kidney, and is then carried forward as the lieno-renal ligament to the sjdeen, around whicli it passes —clothing its renal, phrenic, and gastric surfaces—as far as the hilus (Fig. 709); from this it is carried to the stomach as the anterior layer of the gastro-splenic omentum. Similarly, the under layer of the left lateral ligament is continued down on the back part of the diaphragm to the cesoj^hagus, the anterior and left sides of whicli it clothes. It also forms a little fold at the left of the oesophagus, known as the gastro-phrenic ligament (see p. 1007 and Fig. 710). At the right side, the portion of the jjeritoneum wliich forms the under layer of the coronary ligament is carried down over the right kidney (and lower part of the sujjrarenal capsule) to the duodenum and hepatic flexure, over both of which it passes. We shall now follow down the posterior layer of the great sac—which we have akeady traced to the stomach—as seen in a sagittal section (Fig. 707). Having reached the lesser curvature of the stomach, it passes down over the front of that organ, clothing it completely as far as the great curvature. From this it descends, in front of the transverse colon and small intestine, forming the anterior layer of the great omentum—a large apron-like fold, containing the lower part of the small sac in its interior, which hangs down from the stomach. Arrived at the lower border of the great omentum, the membrane returns on itself, and passes upwards towards the posterior abdominal wall, forming the posterior layer of that omentum. On the way it meets, and passes behind the transverse colon, clothing its posterior aspect at the same time (Fig. 707), and is then continued, as the posterior layer of the transverse mesocolon, up to the posterior abdominal wall, which it reaches at the anterior border of the pancreas (Fig. 707). From the anterior border of the pancreas it is continued downwards again, clothing first the lower part of that organ, then the front of the third portion of the duodenum, and below this the posterior abdominal wall. From this latter, however, it is soon carried forwards again by the branches of the superior mesen- teric vessels, passing to the small intestine. Kunning out along these, it forms the upper (or more correctly, the right) layer of the obliquely-placed mesentery (Fig. 707): on reaching the small bowel at the border of the mesentery, it invests that tube, giving it its serous coat, and then returns—as the under, or left, layer of the mesentery—to the posterior abdominal wall, on which it runs down, covering the great vessels near the middle line, and the psoas muscles and ureters at each side, to enter the pelvis. The mesentery is described at page 1020. Pelvic Peritoneum.—The detailed arrangement of the peritoneum in the pelvic cavity is somewhat complicated, and is fully described in connexion with the several pelvic organs. A general accoitnt will suffice here. Having passed over the brim all round, it enters the pelvis, and covers its walls as low as the pelvic floor, across which it passes to the various organs. Behind, it invests completely, and forms a mesentery (pelvic mesocolon) for, the pelvic colon, as far down as the third sacral verteljra. Here the colon joins the rectum proper, and the complete investment of the,l)0wel ceases. As the end of the pelvic colon is approached the two layers of its mesocolon become shorter, and when the rectum is reached, they separate, leaving its posterior surface uncovered, whilst the bowel is clothed in front and at the sides. Lower down, the membrane leaves the sides, and finally, at a point which is usually about 3 inches (7"5 cm., see page 1039) aljove the anus, it leaves the front of the bowel, and in the male is carried on to the back part of the bladder (here covered l)y the seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia), forming the floor of the recto-vesicle pouch (excavatio recto-vesicalis, recto-genital poucli) found between these organs. It then covers the upper surface of the bladder, and passing off from its sides to the