VEINS OF OEBIT, NOSE, AND PTEEYGO-MAXILLAEY EEOION. 835 Veins of the Orbit.—The veins of the orbit correspond, with the exception of the frontal vein, with the branches of the ophthahiiic artery, and they gradually converge, as they pass backwards in the orbit, until they form two main trunks, an upper (v. ophthalmica superior) and a lower (v. ophthalmica inferior); these terminate, separately or l^y a single trunk, in the anterior end of the cavernous sinus, to which they pass through the foramen lacerum anterius, and between the two heads of the external rectus muscle. The superior ophthalmic vein communicates, at the internal angle of the orbit, with the angular vein, and the inferior ophthalmic vein communicates through the spheno-maxillary fissure with the pterygoid plexus. Veins of the Nose.—The veins of the walls of the nasal cavity end partly in the ethmoidal tributaries of the superior ophthalmic vein, partly in the septal affluent of the superior coronary and in the lateral nasal veins, both of which are tributaries of the facial vein; but the majority of the veins of the nose, both from the septal and outer walls, join together to form a spheno-palatine vein which passes through the spheno-palatine foramen and the spheno-maxillary fossa, and terminates in the pterygoid plexus. Pterygoid Plexus and the Internal Maxillary Vein.—The pterygoid plexus (plexus pterygoideus) of veins Ues in the zygomatic and pterygoid fossaj. It covers the inner surface of the internal pterygoid muscle, and surrounds the external pterygoid. It receives trilnitaries which correspond with and accompany the branches of the internal maxillary artery—viz. spheno-palatine, pterygo-palatine, vidian, infraorbital, posterior superior dental, posterior palatine, buccal, two or three deep temporal, pterygoid, masseteric, and inferior dental veins, and the vena comites of the middle meningeal artery. It communicates superiorly with the cavernous sinus through the foramen ovale, anteriorly with the inferior ophthalmic vein through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and between the masseter and the buccinator with the facial vein by the deep facial anastomosing branch. It also communicates posteriorly and internally, on the inner side of the internal pterygoid, with the pharyngeal plexus, and it terminates posteriorly in the internal maxillary vein. The internal maxillary vein is a short vessel which accompanies the first part of the internal maxillary artery, between the spheno-mandibular ligament and the neck of the lower jaw; it enters the parotid gland, and terminates by uniting with the superficial temporal vein to form the temporo-maxillary trunk. Occasionally the internal maxillary vein is double. The temporo-maxillary vein (v. facialis posterior) is a short trunk which is formed in the upper part of the parotid gland, behind the neck of the jaw, by the union of the superficial temporal and internal maxillary veins. As it descends it lies superficial to the external carotid artery, and it is crossed by the cervico- and temporo-facial branches of the facial nerve. It terminates at the lower part of the parotid gland by dividing into posterior and anterior divisions. The posterior division passes backwards, perforates the deep cervical fascia, and unites on the upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle with the posterior auricular vein to form the external jugular vein. The anterior division passes downwards and forwards into the carotid triangle, where it terminates in the common facial vein. VENOUS SINUSES AND VEINS OF THE CRANIUM, AND OF ITS CONTENTS. The venous channels met with in the cranial walls and cranial cavity are:— (1) The diploic veins (vv. diploicse), which lie in the cancellous tissue between the outer and inner tables of the cranial bones. (2) The meningeal veins, which accompany the meningeal arteries in the outer layer of the dura mater. (3) The veins of the brain, which lie between the folds of pia mater and in the subarachnoid space. (4) The cranial venous sinuses, channels which are situated between the outer