THE BEONCHI. 925 mediastinum, bein_<? separated from the bodies of the vertebrae by the oesophagus alone. Immediately above its bifurcation the deep cardiac plexus of nerves is placed in front and on either side of the trachea. At the level of the fourth dorsal vertebra the aortic arch is very intimately related to it. At first in front of the tube, the aortic arch passes Itackwards in close contact with its left side. The three great vessels which spring from the aortic arch are also placed in close proximity to the trachea. The innominate and left common carotid arteries, at fii'st in front, gradually diverge as they proceed upwards and come to lie on either side of the tul)e—the innominate to the right, and the left common carotid to the left. In front of these vessels are the left innominate vein and the remains of the thymus body. On the right side the tlioracic part of the trachea is in relation to the right vagus nerve, and is clothed l)y the right mediastinal pleura; on the left side are the left subclavian artery and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Structure of the Wall of the Trachea.—The wall of the trachea and bronchi is composed of (1) a fibro-elastic membrane in which the cartilaginous rings are embedded ; (2) witliin this, and on the posterior aspect of the tube, a layer of muscular tissue, termed the muscuhis trachealis; and (3) the lining mucous membrane. The fibro-elastic membrane is strong and dense, and, passing round the whole circimi- ference of the tube, it becomes continuous superiorly with the perichondrium which invests the cricoid cartilage. Embedded in its substance are the series of cartilaginous rings. These vary in number from 15 to 20, and are composed of hyaline cai'tilage. They are horseshoe-shaped, the posterior fourth of the circumference being deficient, so that behind, each ring ends in two rounded extremities. The external surface of a tracheal ring is flat and even, and does not project much beyond the level of the membrane in which it is embedded ; the inner surface, however, is convex in the vertical direction, and consequently it bulges slightly into the lumen of the trachea. The intervals between the rings are somewhat narrower than the rings themselves, and neighbouring rings frequently show a more or less complete fusion, whilst others present other irregularities, such as a tendency to bifurcate. The lowest ring is specially adapted to the tracheal bifurcation. In the middle line in front it inclines downwards, and from this median peak a cartilaginous strip is carried backwards in the fork between the two bronchi. The musculus trachealis is a continuous layer of involuntary muscular tissue placed in the posterior part of the wall in front of the fibro-elastic membrane. The muscular bundles are arranged transversely, and are attached to the extremities of the rings, and also to the deep surface of the rings for a short distance beyond their extremities. In the intervals between the rings the transverse muscular bundles are attached to the fibro- elastic membrane. It is evident that, by its contraction, this muscle will reduce in a marked degree the lumen of the tube. The mucous membrane is laid smoothly over the interior of the tube upon a layer of submucous areolar tissue. Lymphoid tissue enters largely into the composition of the tracheal mucous membrane, and its inner surface is lined by columnar ciliated epithelial cells. The action of the cilia exercises an important influence in producing an upward movement of the mucus which is present on the surface of the mucous membrane. Numerous longitudinal bundles of elastic tissue are present in the posterior wall of the trachea, more particularly in its lower part, between the mucous membrane and the nuisculus trachealis. In connexion with the nnicous membrane there is a plentiful supply of acinose mucous glands. These are placed in the submucous tissue, and also on the posterior aspect of the tube on the exterior of the musculus trachealis as well as amidst its muscular bundles. They send their ducts to the surface of the mucous membrane, where they open by trumpet-shaped mouths. THE BRONCHI. The two bronchi proceed ol)liqnely downwards and outwards from the termina- tion of the trachea, each towards the hilus of the corresponding lung. Like the trachea they are kept permanently patent by the presence of cartilaginous rings in their walls. These rings are deficient posteriorly, so that the bronchi exhibit a flattened posterior surface in every respect similar to the trachea. The two bronchi differ from each other, not only in the relations which they present to sur- rounding structures, but also in length, in width, and in the direction which they pursue (Fig. 625, p. 923).