176 OSTEOLOGY. the length of the cranio-facial axis has been found by Flower to be a character of much value. The dental length is taken by measuring the distance beween the anterior surface of the first pre- molar and the posterior surface of the third molar of the ujjper jaw. To obtain the dental index the following formula is used :—• Dental length x 100 _, , , . , — — rT n— = Dental index. Jjasmasal length Following the convenient method of division adopted with other indices, the dental indices may be divided into three series, called respectively— Microdont, index below 42 : including the so-called Caucasian or white races. Mesodont, index between 42 and 44 : including the Mongolian or yellow races. Megadont, index above 44 : comprising the black races, including the Australians. Many complicated instruments have been devised to take the various measurements required, but for all practical purjjoses the calipers designed by Flower or the compas glissihre of Broca are sufficient. As an aid to calculating the indices, the tables published in the Osteological Catalogue of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, Part I., Man., or the index calculator invented by Dr. Waterston will be found of much service in saving time. DEVELOPMENT OF THE CHONDRO-CRANIUM AND MORPHOLOGY OF THE SKULL. As has been already stated (p. 23), the chorda doi'salis extends forwards to a point immediately beneath the anterior end of the mid-brain. In front of this the head takes a bend so that the large fore-brain overlaps the anterior extremity of the notochord. At this stage of development the cerebral vesicles are enclosed in a membranous covering derived from the mesenchyme surrounding the notochord ; this differentiated mesodermal layer is called the primordial membranous cranium. From this the meninges which invest the brain are derived. Li lower vertebrates this membranous capsule becomes converted into a thick-walled cartilaginous envelope, the primordial cartilaginous cranium. Li mammals, however, only the basal part of this capsule becomes chondrified, the roof and part of the sides remaining membranous. Li considering the chondi'ification of the skull in mammals, it must be noted that part only of the base is traversed by the notochord. It is, therefore, conveniently divided into two parts—one posterior, surrounding the notochord, and hence called chordal, and one in front, into which the notochord does not extend, and hence termed prechordal. These correspond respectively to the vertebral and evertebral regions of Gegenbauer. In the chordal region a pair of elongated cartilages, called the» parachordal cartilages, appear one on either side of the notochord; these soon envelop the chorda, and expand so as to form the basilar or occipital plate, which ossifies later to form the basilar process of the occipital bone, and the dorsum sellse of the sphenoid. In the prechordal region two curved strips of cartilage, the trabeculse cranii of Rathke, arise and pass forwards from the anterior extremity of the notochord, one on either side of the cranio-pharyngeal canal. In front these trabeculte spread out and ultimately fuse to form the ethmoidal plate, which constitutes the fore part of the chondro-cranium. Posteriorly the trabeculse unite with the basilar plate and thus surround the cranio-pharyngeal canal, the lumen of which is subsequently closed to form the floor of the pituitary fossa, in which rests the hypophysis cerebri. Owing to the presence of the nasal capsules, the fore part of the ethmoidal plate becomes differentiated into an ethmo-vomerine region, from which the nasal septum and its associated cartilages are derived, whilst the remainder of the ethmoidal plate by expansion and subsequent ossification develops to form the pre- sphenoid, the orbito-sphenoids, and the alisphenoids, which latter assist in completing the orbital cavity for the lodgment of the eyeball. The membranous ear capsules which lie lateral to the parachordal cartilages become chondrified and form the cartilaginous ear capsules. These soon unite with the lateral aspects of the basilar plate, but are separated in front from the cartilaginous alisphenoid of the ethmoidal plate by a membi'anous interval, which is subsequently occupied by the squamosal, a bone of dermic origin. This disappearance of the cartilage under the squamosal was regarded by Parker as the diagnostic mark of the mammalian chondro-cranium. From the ventral surface of this cartilaginous platform—formed, as described, by the union of the trabeculse, parachordal cartilages, and cartilaginous ear capsules—is suspended the cartilaginous framework of the visceral arches, which play so important a j)art in the development of the face, an account of which is elsewhere given (p. 36). A consideration of the facts of comparative anatomy and embryology appears to justify