THE THOEACIC PART OF THE SYMPATHETIC CORD. 667 Peripheral Branches of Distribution.— 1. Heart.—An inferior cervical cardiac branch is given off on each side to enter the deep cardiac plexus. 2. Vessels.—(a) The vertebral plexus is a J dense plexus of fibres surrounding and supply- ^'^^ lug the vertebral artery and its branches in the neck and the cranial cavity. Qi) The subclavian plexus is derived from the subclavian loop, and supplies small offsets to the subclavian artery. It gives branches to the internal mammary artery, and communicates with the phrenic nerve. THE THORACIC PART OF THE SYMPATHETIC COED. The thoracic part of the sympathetic cord consists of a variable number of ganglia of an irregularly angular or fusiform shape, joined together by commissural cords of considerable thickness. The number of ganglia is usually ten or eleven; l:mt the first and sometimes others may be so fused with the neighbouring ganglia as to still further reduce the number. This part of the sympathetic cord is char- acterised by its union with the thoracic spinal nerves. Each thoracic nerve, with the possible exception of the first, sends a visceral branch (white ramus communicans) to join the gang- liated cord in the thorax. These white rami separate into two main streams in relation to the sympathetic cord. Those of the upper fire nerves are for the most part directed upwards in the gangliated cord to be distributed through the cervical part of the sympathetic in the manner already described. The white rami of the lovjer thoracic nerves are for the most part directed downwards in the lower part of the sympathetic cord and its branches, to be dis- tributed in the abdomen ; at the same time some of their fibres are directly associated with the supply of certain thoracic viscera,—lungs, aorta, oesophagus. These white rami are composed of (1) splanchnic afferent fibres passing from its peri- • pheral branches through the sympathetic cord into the dorsal ganglia of the spinal nerves —medullated nerve-fibres unconnected with fio. 479. — The Arrangement of the sympathetic ganglion cells ; and (2) somatic Sympathetic System in the Thorax, and splanchnic efferent fibres, small medullated , abdomen, and Pelyis. 1 • 1 , 1 1 , T.1-12: L.l-o: S.1-5; Co, Anterior primary nerves, which, after-a longer or shorter course divisionsof spinal nerves, connected to the gangliated cord of the sympathetic by rami communicantes, white (double lines) and gray (single lines) ; Oes, (Esophagus and oesophageal plexus ; Ao, Aorta and aorta plexus ; Va, Vagus nerve joining resophageal plexus ; S. 1, Great splanchnic nerve ; X, Great splanchnic ganglion ; S.2, Small splanchnic nerve ; S.3, Least splanchnic nerve ; Co, Coronary artery and plexus; SpIj, Splenic artery and plexus ; H, Hepatic artery and plexus ; SL, Semi- lunar ganglion ; Di, Diaphragm ; S.R, Supra-renal capsule ; Be, Renal artery and plexus ; S.M, Superior mesenteric artery and plexus ; Sp, Spermatic artery and plexus ; I.M, Inferior mesenteric artery and plexus ; Hy, Hypogastric nerves and plexus ; Rec, Rectal plexus ; Ut, Uterine plexus ; Ves, Vesical plexus ; V.V.V, Visceral branches from sacral nerves. ritC. UT VES.