409 FASCIA OF THE PELVIS. of urine or semen. In the female it acts as a feeble sphincter of the vagina. The ischio- cavernosus and bulbo-cavernosus helji in erection of the penin or clitoris. The compressor urethrse constricts the membranous urethra, and in the female helps to flatten and fix the wall of the vagina. It also assists in causing erection of the penis or clitoris by compression of the veins in relation to.it. FASCIA OF THE PELVIS. The Lony pelvic basin, placed obliquely, deeper and more hollowed behind than in front, is to a large extent completed by ligaments (sacro-sciatic ligaments, obturator membrane and triangular ligament). It is almost entirely clothed internally by muscles: by the pyriformis on each side behind, the obturator internus at the side, and the compressor urethree in contact with the triangular ligament Piibo-iirostatic ligaments Capsule of prostate gland Prostate glanil Corpus spongiosum penis Corpue cavemosuni Supertlcial fascia of perineum Compressor urethra muscle Triangular ligament Posterior layer of trianf --.^ PuBic arch ular ligament Obturator membrane Obturator internus Parietal (obturator) layer of pelvic fascia Iscliio-rectal fossa Anal fascia Obturator externus Levator ani Visceral layer of pelvic fascia Innominate bone (ischium) Recto-vesical layer of pelvic fascia (enclosing vasa deferentia and vesicula> seminales) Rectal layer of pelvic fascia Rectum Pyriformis - Sacrum Pig. 303.—Dissection of the Pelvic Fascia feom above (diagrammatic) in front. Indeed, the bones of the pelvis only appear in the cavity in two places; the spine of the ischium projects into the cavity laterally, and the pubis appears in its anterior wall. The pelvic fascia forms a cylindrical membrane lining the wall of the pelvis, as an aponeurosis for its muscles. It is attached above and below to the inlet and outlet of the pelvis; above to the promontory of the sacrum, ilio-pectineal Line, and back of the pubis; below to the coccyx, great sacro-sciatic ligament, tuber ischii, and the base of the triangular ligament. This cylindrical membrane is the parietal pelvic fascia ; it forms the pyriformis fascia behind, the obturator fascia at the side of the pelvis, and the so-called posterior layer of the triangular ligament in front. As this fascia traverses the pelvic wall it obtains attachments to the back of the pubis anteriorly, and to the spine of the ischium on each side. It is deficient in relation to the obturator groove, through which the obturator artery and nerve pass to reach the thigh. Between the back of the pubis and the spine of the ischium the white line extends, a thickened band of the fascia, which roughly indicates the line of separation of the pelvic cavity from the ischio-rectal fossa. The white line serves two purposes: it gives origin to fibres of the levator ani muscle, and from it a secondary sheet of fascia, known as the visceral pelvic fascia, arches downwards and inwards across the floor of the pelvis to be connected with the pelvic viscera. This membrane is thin and unimportant behind, as it passes forwards from the lower sacral vertebree to the rectum. It is thicker at the sides and front of the pelvis,