229 THE FIBULA. The loug external CONDYLir SURFACK Spine ndylic surface Popliteal NOTCH Peroneus loiigus URFACE FOR EX- TENSORS OF ANKLE Flexor longus hallucis serves for articulation with the external tuberosity of the tibia, lateral ligament, together with the remainder of the tendon of the biceps muscle which surrounds it, is attached to the outer and upper side of the head in front of the styloid process. In front and behind the head there are usually prominent tubercles. The anterior of these is associated with the origin of the peroneus longus muscle; the pos- terior, whilst furnishing an origin for the upper fibres of the soleus, serves to deepen the groove, behind the superior tibio-fibular articula- tion, in which the tendon and fleshy part of the popliteus muscle play. The constricted portion of the shaft below the head is often referred to as the neck; around the outer side of this the external popliteal nerve winds. The shaft of the fibula (corpus fibulae) presents many varieties of shape and form, being ridged and channelled in such a way as greatly to increase the difficulties of the student in recognising the various surfaces described. The most important point is first to determine the position of the in- terosseous ridge. Holding the bone in the position which it normally occupies in the leg, it will be noticed that the external surface of the lower extremity is limited in front and behind by two lines, which, converging above, enclose between them a triangular »sub- cutaneous area which lies im- mediately above the outer ankle. From the summit of the triangle so formed a well-defined ridge may be traced up the front of the shaft to reach the anterior aspect of the head. This is the anterior harder, and must not be mistaken for the interosseous ridge, which is now easy to find, for the next ridge which lies immediately internal to the anterior border, or towards the tibial side on the anterior aspect of the bone, is the line to which the interosseous membrane is attached. As a rule these two lines are separated by a considerable interval in the lower half of the bone, but tend to run much closer together above; indeed it is not uncommon to find that they coalesce to form a single crest. Let it therefore be clear that the interosseous line is that which lies iinmediately oneus brevis ^ S £ O O •< Q Internal malleolus Groove for FLEXOR longus HALLUCIS Groove for tendons of peroneus longus AND BREVIS External malleolus Fiu. 170.—Right Tibia and Fibula as seen from Behind.