246 OSTEOLOGY. occasionally be met Avitli. The frequent occurrence of an increase in tlie number of digits seems to indicate that pliylogenetically the number of digits was greater than at present, and included a prepollex or jirehallux, and a digitus post-minimus. The correspondence of the metacarpus with the metatarsus and the phalanges of the fingers with those of the toes is so obvious, that it is sufficient merely to mention it. Tlie differences in size, form, and disposition of the skeletal elements of the hand and foot is easily accounted for by a reference to the functions they subserve. In the hand strength is sacrificed to mobility, thus leading to a reduction in the size of the carpal elements, and a marked increase in the length of the digital phalanges. The freedom of movement of the thumb, and its opposaliility to the other digits, greatly enhances the value of the hand as a grasping organ. In the foot, where stability is the main requirement, the tarsus is of much greater proportionate size, whilst the ^jhalanges ai'e correspondingly reduced. Since the foot no longer serves as a grasping organ, the great toe is not free and opposable like the thumb. Limb Girdles.—The free limbs are linked to the axial skeleton'by a chain of bones which constitute their girdles. The fundamental form of these limb girdles consists each of a pair of curved cartilages placed at right angles to the axis of the trunk, and embedded within its musculature. Each cartilage has an articular surface externally about the middle for the recep- tion of the cartilage of the first segment of the free limb. In this way each pectoral and pelvic cartilage is divided into an upper or dorsal half and a lower or ventral half The dorsal halves constitute the scapula and ilium of the pectoral and jielvic girdles resjDectively. With regard to the ventral halves, there is more difficulty in establishing their homologies. The original con- dition is best disj^layed in the pelvic girdle ; here the ventral segment divides into two Ijranches— one anterior, which represents the pubis, the other posterior, which ultimately forms the ischium. Ventrally, the extremities of these cartilages unite to enclose the obturator foramen. In the pectoral girdle the disposition of the ventral cartilages is not so clear, consisting primitively of an anterior branch or ptrecoracoid, and a posterior portion or coracoid; these, in higher forms, have undergone great modifications in adajjtation to the requirements of the fore limbs. The posterior or coracoid element, the homologue of the ischial cartilage in the pelvic girdle, is but feebly represented in man by tlie coracoid process and the coraco-clavicular ligament. With regard to the homologue of the pubic element in the pectoral girdle, there is much difference of opinion; in reptiles and amphibia it corresponds most clo.sely to the j^recoracoid, but it is doubt- ful what represents it in mammals. According to Goette and Hoffman, the clavicle is a primor- dial bone, and not, as suggested by Gegenbaur, of secondary or dermic origin. If this be so, it corresponds to the ventral anterior segment of the pectoral girdle, and is therefore homologous with the ventral anterior (2)ubic) segment of the pelvic girdle. On the other hand, if Gegen- baur's view be accepted, the clavicle has no representative in the pelvic girdle. It must, how- ever, be borne in mind that during its ossification it is intimately associated with cartilage, and that that cartilage may represent tlie precoracoid bar; nor must too great stress be laid upon the fact that the clavicle begins to ossify before it is preformed in cartilage, since that may be merely a modification in its histogenetic develojjment. According to another view (Sabatier), the subcoracoid centre (see Ossification of Scapula) is derived from the posterior ventral segment, and corresponds to the ischium, whilst the coracoid process is the remains of the anterior ventral segment (precoracoid), and is homodyuamous with the pubis. In no part of the skeleton does function react so much on structure as in the arrangement of the constituent -p&vts of the pectoral or pelvic girdles. In man, owing to the assumption of the erect position and the bipedal mode of progression, the pelvic girdle acquires tliose characteristics which are essentially human, viz. its great relative breadth and the exj^ansion of its iliac por- tions, which serve as a support to the abdominal viscera, and also furnish an extensive origin to the powerful muscles which control the movements of the hip-joint. The stability of the jDelvic girdle is ensured by the nature of its union with the axial skeleton, as well as by the osseous fusion of its several parts, and their union in front at the symphysis pubis. In man, since the erection of the figure no longer necessitates the use of the fore limb as a means of support, the shoulder girdle has become modified along lines which enhance its mobility and determine its utility, in association with a prehensile limb. Some of its 2;)arts remain independent (clavicle and scajiula), and are united by diarthrodial joints, whilst others have become much reduced in size or suppressed (coracoid-j^recoracoid, see cmte). The dorsal part of the girdle (scapula) is not directly united with the axial skeleton as is the ilium, but is only indirectly joined to it through the medium of the clavicle, which is linked in front with the presternum. The same underlying princijiles determine the differences in moljility and strength between the shoulder, elbow, and wrist, and the hip, knee, and ankle joints of the fore and hind limbs respectively, whilst the utility of the hand is further enhanced by the movements of i)ro- nation and supination which occur between the bones of the forearm. In the leg such move- ments are absent, as they would interfere with the stability of the limb.