THE PERITONEUM. 1051 Faloifonn ligament Foramen uf Winsluw Stomach Round ligament of liver Lesser omentum (cut) Portal vein colon — on the descend- Right kidney from the tipi^er surface of the empty bhidder, and when well marked, passing to the neighboui'- hood of the internal abdominal ring. Above the bladder, on each side of the urachus, is found the internal inguinal fossa already referred to (p. 1048). Both of these fossae are practically obliterated liy distension of the bladder. Similarly, there is seen at each side of the empty rectum, on the posterior pelvic wall, a large depression, which may be known as the pararectal fossa (fossa pararectalis, Fig. 708). When the rectum is empty and contracted, these fossa=! are filled Ijy intestine; during distension, the rectum increasing in width, expels the intestine and practically ol^literates the fosste. Transverse Tracing- of the Peritoneum.—If the peritoneum he followed trans- versely around the abdomen, just above the level of the iliac crest, where the com- plications produced by the small sac are absent (Fig. 709, B), few difliculties will be encountered. From the anterior abdominal wall it passes round on each side to the back, lining the lateral and posterior walls. Pass- ing inwards on the posterior wall, it meets the ascending right side, ing on the left—over which it is carried, in each case covering the bowel in front and at the sides only, and leaving the pos- terior surface bare, rule. Some- times, however, the covering is complete, and a short mesen- tery is formed. It is next continued inwards over the psoas muscles, the ureters, and the great vessels, on the front of which it meets the superior mesenteric artery and vein run- ning downwards to the intestines. From both sides it passes forwards on these vessels, forming the right and left layers of the mesentery; and finally, having reached the intestine, it clothes it completely, and the two portions become continuous on the bowel. A transverse tracing at a higher level would include the small sac; it will, therefore, be well to study this portion of the peritoneum before describing such a tracing. Small Sac of the Peritoneum (Inu-sa omentalis).—This, as already pointed Lieno-renal ligament Small intestine The mesentery Aorta, Desoendin: rVscending colon Fig. 709.—Dl\gramm.vt;c Tk.wsverse Sections of Abdo.mex, to show the peritoneum on transverse tracing. A, at level of foi-amen of Winslow, B, lower down. In A, note one of the vasa brevia arteries passing to the stomach between the layers of the gastro-spleuic omentum, and also the forainen of Winslow leading into the lesser sac which lies behind the stomach.