THE COLON. 1033 Tlie state of the peritoneal coveriug on tlie back of the first part of the transverse colon would seem to depend, in some degree, on the extent to which the liver j^asses downwards on the right side. With a small high liver no mesentery is present, and the posterior surface is devoicl of peritoneum ; on the other liand, when the liver is enlarged in the vertical direction, it pushes the coloir downwards before it, and brings tlie upper line of the peritoneal reflection fron\ its back, into contact with the lower, thus giving rise to the mesentery. In the foetus of three or four months every part of the colon is supplied with a long mesentery ; subsequently this, as a rule, disappears at the beginning of the transverse colon, but it may l.)e reproduced in the manner stated. Splenic Flexure (tiexura coli sinistra).—The terminal p<jrtion of the trans- verse colon runs upwards (also backwards and to the left) until the lower end or base of the spleen is readied; here it bends sharply, forming the splenic flexure, Ijiver Attachment of falciform ligament Hepatic flexure Apex of vermiform appendix Terminal part of ileum Csecum Stomach Spleen (anterior basal angle) Splenic flexure Transver.se mesocolon, with stomach resting on it Terminal part of iluodeniim Descending cnlnn ffija|—Root of mesentery (cut) Pelvic (sigmoid) mesocolon Pelvic colon (sigmoid '■'M flexure) Bladder Fig."^699.—The Abdominal Viscera after the Removal op the Jejunum and Ileum (from a photograpli of the same body as depicted in Fig. 670). The transverse colon is-much more regular than usual. Both the liver and ccecum extend lower down than normal. The subdivisions of the abdominal cavity are indicated by dark lines. and runs down into the descending colon. The flexure is placed deeply in the left hypochondrium, behind the stomach, and in contact with the base of the spleen. It lies at a higher level than the hepatic flexure, and is connected to the abdominal parietes by the phreno-colic ligament, which helps to maintain it in this position. Phreno-colic or Costo-colic Ligament (ligamentum phrenocolicum, Fig. 688).— This is a triangular fold of peritoneum, with a free- anterior liorder, which is attaclied internally to the splenic flexure and externally to the diaphragm opposite the eleventh rib. Owing to the fact that the base of the spleen rests upon it, the ligament has also received the name of sustentaculum lienis. The phreno-colic ligament is formed in the fcctus from the left margin of the great omentum (.Jonnesco and Fig. 688). Tlfe jieritoneal covering of the splenic flexure is similar to tliat of the descending colon.