375 THE MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. face over the side of the neck, between the superficial and deep faacife. It arises from the deep fascia of the pectoral region and the clavicle. It is directed upwards and forwards, and is partly inserted (by its middle fibres) into the lower border of the mandible, becoming connected with the depressor labii inferioris and depressor anguli oris muscles. The more anterior fibres pass across the middle line of the neck and decussate below the chin with those of the opposite side. The posterior fibres sweep over the angle of the jaw and become continuous with the Epicranial aponeurosis Attrahens AtmEM Attollens AUBEM Frontalis Orbicularis palpebrarum Pyramidalis nasi Compressor naris -Levator labii superioris al/eque nasi Ijevator labii superioris Zygomaticus minor Depressor alm nasi Zygomaticus major iStenson's duct Orbicularis oris RiSORIUS Buccinator Depressor anouli oris Depressor labii inferioris Masseter Platysma myoides Fig. 275.—The Muscles op the Face and Scalp (muscles of expression) risorius muscle. The platysma myoides is the rudiment of the cervical portion of the panniculus carnosus of lower animals, in which it has a much more intimate connexion with the muscles of the face than is usually the case in man. The Muscles of the Scalp. The muscles of the scalp comprise the muscles of the external ear and the occipito-frontalis muscle. The occipito-'frontalis is a muscle with two bellies and an intervening tendon (the epicranial aponeurosis) which stretches uninterruptedly across the middle line of the cranium. The posterior belly (occipitalis) arises from the outer two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital bone as a broad flat band. The anterior belly (frontalis) has no bony attachments; arising from the epicranial aponeurosis about the level of the coronal suture, it passes downwards to the supra-orbital arch, where it is inserted into the orbicularis palpebrarum and corrugator supercilii muscles. It extends the full width of the forehead, and blends internally with the muscle of the opposite side. The epicranial aponeurosis extending between the two fleshy bellies, is a con- tinuous membrane which glides over the calvarium, and has attachments laterally to the temporal ridge, and behind between the posterior bellies to the superior curved line of the occipital bone. It has no osseous attachment anteriorly. The occipito-frontalis is usually rudimentary. By the contraction of the fibres of the