71 OSSIFICATION AND GEOWTH OF BONES. arrangement. As growth goes on these osteoblasts become embedded in the ossify- ing matrix, and remain as the corpuscles of the future bone, the spaces in which they are lodged corresponding to the lacunse and canaliculi of the fully-developed osseous tissue. From the primary centre ossification spreads eccentrically towards the margins of the bone, where ultimately the sutures are formed. Here the growth rendered necessary by the expansion of the cranium takes place through the agency of an intervening layer of vascular connective tissue rich in osteoblasts; but in course of time the activity of this is reduced until only a thin layer of intermediate tissue persists along the line of the suture, which may eventually become absorbed, leading to the obliteration of the suture by the osseous union of the contiguous bones. Whilst the expansion of the bone in all directions is thus provided for, its increase in thickness is determined by the activity of the underlying and overlying strata. These form the periosteum, and furnish the lamellfB which constitute the inner and outer compact osseous layers. In a cartilage bone, changes of a similar nature occur. The cartilage, which may be regarded histologically as white fibrous tissue + chondro-sulphuric acid and a certain amount of lime salts, undergoes the following changes:—First, the cartilage cells being arranged in rows, become enlarged; secondly, the matrix between the cartilage cells becomes calcified by the deposition of an additional amount of lime salts; thirdly, the rows of cells become confluent; and fourthly, into the spaces so formed extend the blood-vessels derived from the vascular layer of the periosteum. Accompanying these vessels are osteoblasts and osteoclasts, the former building up true bone at the expense of the calcified cartilage, the latter causing an absorption of the newly-formed bone, and leading to its conversion into a marrow cavity, so that in due course all the cartilage or its products disappear. At the same time that this is taking place within the cartilage, the perichondrium is undergoing conversion into the periosteum, an investing membrane, the deeper stratum of which, highly vascular, furnishes a layer of osteoblast cells which serve to develop the circumferential lamellse of the bone. It is by the accrescence of these layers externally, and their absorption internally through the action of the osteoclast cells, that growth takes place transversely. A transverse section of the shaft of a long bone shows this very clearly. Centrally there is the marrow cavity, formed primarily by the absorption of the calcified cartilage; around this the cancellous tissue produced by the partial erosion of the primary periosteal bone is disposed, whilst externally there is the dense envelope made up of the more recent periosteal growth. Such a description, whilst explaining the growth of bone circumferentially, fails to account for its growth in lengthj hence the necessity in loijg bones for some arrangement whereby ossification may take place at one or both extremities of the shaft. This zone of growth is situated where the ossified shaft becomes continuous with the cartilaginous epiphysis. In addition, within these epiphysial cartilages calcification of the cartilage takes place centrally, just as in the diaphysis. The two parts of the bone, viz. the diaphysis and epiphysis, are thus separated by a layer of cartilage, as yet uncalcified, but extremely active in growth owing to the invasion of vessels and cells from a vascular zone which surrounds the epiphysis. The nucleus of the epiphysis becomes converted into true bone, which grows eccentrically. This arrangement provides for the growth of the shaft towards the epiphysis, and the growth of the epiphysis towards the shaft; so that as long as the active intervening layer of cartilage persists, extension of growth in a longitudinal direction is possible. Subsequently, however, at variable periods the intervening layer of cartilage becomes calcified, and true bony growth occurs within it, thus leading to complete osseous union between the shaft and epiphysis. When this has taken place all further growth in a longitudinal direction ceases. In cases where the epiphysis enters into the formation of a joint, the cartilage over the articular area persists and undergoes neither calcification nor ossification. In long bones the ossific nucleus for the shaft or diaphysis is the first to appear, and is hence often called the primary centre of ossification. The centres for the epiphyses appear subsequently at variable periods, and are referred to as the secondary centres of ossification. From what has been said it will be gathered that the vascular supply of the bone is derived from the vessels of the periosteum. These consist of fine arteries