VASCULAE AND PIGMENTED TUNIC OF THE EYE. 687 Cornea' Anterior chamber Canal of Schlemin Spaces of Pontana Conjunctiva Iris Pars iridica retina^ Ciliary process Liganientum pectinatum iridis Circular fibres of ciliary muscle Radial fibres of ciliary muscle Pars ciliaris retinfe The ciliary body (corpus ciliare) connects the chorioid to the circumference of the iris (Fig. 497), and presents the following three zones, viz.: (a) the orbiculus ciliaris, (b) the ciliary processes, and (c) the ciliary muscle. The orbiculus ciliaris forms a zone of about 4 mm. in width immediately adjoining the chorioid, and exhibits numerous radially-arranged ridges. The ciliary processes (processus ciliares), about seventy in number, form a circle of radial thicken- ings, each of a somewhat triangular shape. The base of the triangle is directed forwards towards the equator of the lens, while the apex is continuous behind with some three or four ridges of the orbiculus ciliaris. They vary in size, the largest having a length of 2-5 mm. The structure of the orbiculus ciliaris and ciliary processes is similar to that of the chorioid, but the capillaries are larger and more tortuous, and there is no lamina choriocapillaris. The deep aspect of the ciliary processes is covered by two strata of columnar epitheUum, the anterior layer of which is pig- mented ; these two strata form a direct continua- tion forwards of the retina and constitute the pars ciliaris retinae. This epi- thelium is invaginated to form more or less tubular glands, which may take a share in the secretion, of the aqueous humour. The ciliary muscle (m. ciliaris) is triangular on antero-posterior section, and consists of two sets of iibres—radial and circular (Fig. 497). The radial fibres (fibrae meridionales, Briickei) spring from the corneo-scleral junction behind the canal of Schlemm and from the ligamentum pectinatum iridis, and radiate back- wards, to be attached to the ciliary processes and orbiculus ciliaris. When they contract the chorioid is drawn forwards and the lens becomes more convex, owing to the relaxation of its suspensory ligament (see p. 693).. The circular fibres (fibrae circulares, Miilleri) form a triangular zone behind the ligamentum pectinatum iridis, close to the periphery of the iris, and also extend backwards under the radial iibres. Considerable individual differences are found as to the degree of develop- ment of these two portions of the ciliary muscle. The radial fibres are always more numerous than the circular fibres, the latter being absent or rudimentary in myopic eyes, but well developed, as a rule, in hypermetropic eyes. The iris forms a contractile diaphragm in front of the lens and is pierced a little to the nasal side of its centre by an almost circular apertuffe, the pupil (pupilla), which, during life, is continually varying in size in order to regulate the amount of light admitted into the interior of the globe. It divides the space between the cornea and lens into two parts, which are filled by the aqueous humour, and named respectively the anterior and posterior chambers of the eyeball. Its Perichoi-ioidal lymph space. Orbiculus Zonule of Zinn Retina Fig. 497.—Section theough Ciliary Kegion op Eyeball.