936 THE RESPIEATOKY SYSTEM. Clavicle Clavicular part pectoralis inaji Coracoid Cephalic vein Sternal part of pectoralis major Axillary artery Brachial nerves Axillary vein Rib ii I'l^ctoralis minor pinatus Spine of scapula The outer surface of the lung (facies costalis pulmonis) is extensive and convex. It is accurately adapted to that part of the wall of the pleural cavity which is formed by the costal arches and the intervening intercostal muscles, and it presents markings corresponding to these. Thus the imprint of the ribs appear as shallow oblique grooves, while the intercostal spaces show as elongated intervening l)ulgings. The inner or mediastinal surface of the lung (facies mediastinalis pulmonis) presents a smaller area than the outer surface. It is applied to the mediastinal septum, and presents markings in accordance with the inequalities upon this (Fig. 632, p. 934). Thus it is deeply hollowed out in adaptation to the pericardium nY)on whicli it fits. This pericardial concavity comprises the greater part of the media- stinal surface, and owing to the greater projection of the heart to the left side, it is much deeper and more extensive in the left lung than in the right lung. Above and l^ehind the pericardial hollow is the hilus of the lung. This is a wedge-shaped depressed area, within which the vessels, nerves, and lymphatics, together with the lironchus, enter and leave the organ. Amidst these structures also are some bronchial glands. The hilus is surrounded by the reflection of the pleura from the surface of the lung on to the pulmonary root. Be- hind the hilus and pericardial area there is on each lung a narrow strip of the inner sur- face of the lung which is in relation to the lateral wall of the pos- terior mediastinum. On the right lung this part of the surface is depressed, and corre- sponds to the oeso- phagus ; on the left lung it presents a broad longitudinal groove, which is pro- duced by the contact of the lung with de- scending thoracic aorta, and also, close to the base, a small flattened area in front of this which is ap- plied to the fpsophagus where it pierces the diaphragm. The portion of the i n (I pericardiac hollow Diaphragm Kic. 634.—SA(iiTTAL Section through Left Shoulder and Left Lunc. inner surface of the lung which lies above the hilus is applied to the lateral aspect of the superior mediastinum, and the markings are accordingly somewhat different on the two sides. On the left lung a l)road deep groove, produced by the aortic arch, curves backwards over the hilus, and becomes continuous with the aortic groove on the posterior mediastinal surface. From this a narrower, deeper, and much more sharply-marked groove ascends, and turns outwards over the apex pulmonis a short distance from the summit. This is the sulcus subclavius, and it contains the left subclavian artery when the lung is in place. In front of this a shallow wide groove, also leading up to tlie front aspect of the apex, corresponds to the left innominate vein. In