856 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. terminates in the internal saphenous vein about the lower part of Scarpa's triangle; the other, the internal, receives a communication from the external saphenous vein, and ascends from the back of the thigh along its inner side to terminate in the long saphenous vein almost opposite the termination of the external superficial femoral vein. The last tributaries to enter the long saphenous vein are the superficial circumflex iliac, epigastric, and pudic veins. They accompany the corresponding arteries, and terminate in the long saphenous vein immediately before the latter vessel perforates the cribi'iform fascia. The superficial circumflex iliac vein receives blood from the lower and outer part of the abdominal wall and the upper and outer part of the thigh. The supei'ficial epigastric vein drains the lower and inner part of the abdominal wall, and the superficial pudic vein receives blood from the dorsum of the penis and the scrotum in the male, and from the labium majus in the female. The external or short saphenous vein (v. saphena parva) is formed by the union of the outer extremity of the dorsal venous arch with the outer dorsal digital vein of the little toe. At first it passes backwards along the outer side of the foot and below the external malleolus, lying on the external annular ligament in company with the external saphenous nerve; then it ascends behind the external malleolus, and along the outer liorder of the tendo Achillis, still in compan}' with the external saphenous nerve, to the middle of the calf, above which it is continued in the superficial fascia, accom- panied by the superficial sural artery, to the lower part of the popliteal space, where it pierces the deep fascia, and terminates in the popliteal vein. It communicates round the inner side of the leg with the internal saphenous vein, and through the deep fascia with the deep veins, and it contains from six to twelve bicuspid valves. Tributaries.—It receives tributaries from the outer side of the • foot, from the outer side and back of the heel, from the back of the leg, and occasionally a descending tributar}' from the back of the thigh. Just before it pierces the popliteal fascia it gives off' a small branch which ascends round the inner side of the thigh and unites with the internal superficial femoral vein. In this way a communication is established between the external and internal saphenous veins ; this communication is frequently enlarged, and not uncommonly constitutes the main continuation of the external saphenous vein. Fid. 590.—The External or Short Saphenous Vein and its Thibutaries. THE POETAL SYSTEM. The portal system includes the veins which convey blood from almost the whole of the aljdominal and pelvic parts of the alimentary canal, and from the spleen and pancreas, to the liver. The tributaries of origin of these veins agree closely with the terminal in-anches of the corresponding arteries. They are single vessels, which for some distance accompany the corresponding arteries, and are similarly named. The larger or terminal veins, however, leave their associated arteries; the inferior mesenteric vein joins the splenic vein, and the latter unites