742 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. Ou the left the auricle is limited by the oblique septum which separates it from the left auricle. The sulcus terminalis is a shallow groove on the surface of the right auricle, which passes from the front of the superior vena cava to the left of the inferior vena cava, and indicates the junction of the primitive sinus venosus with the auricle proper. The interior of the auricle is lined with a glistening membrane, the endocardium ; its walls are smooth, except anteriorly and in the auricular appendix where muscular bundles form a series of small vertical columns, the musculi pectinati. These terminate above in a crest, the crista terminalis, which corresponds in position with the sulcus terminalis externally. At the upper and back part of the cavity is the opening of the superior vena cava, devoid of a valve. At the lower and back part is the orifice of the inferior vena cava, bounded in front by the rudimentary Ev:stachian valve; and immedi- ately below the Eustachian valve, between it and the auriculo-ventricular orifice, Musculi papillares Fig. 548.—The Cavities of the Right Auricle and Bight Venthicle of the Heart. is the opening of the coronary sinus, guarded by the Thebesian valve. The auriculo-ventricular aperture, guarded by a tricuspid valve, is known as the tricuspid orifice. It is situated in the antero-inferior boundary, and admits three fingers. A number of small fosste, foramina Thebesii (foramina venarum minimarum), are'^scattered over the walls, and some of these present at their apices the apertures of small veins, the venae minimi cordis. In the septal wall is an oval depression, the fossa ovalis, bounded above and in front by a raised margin, the annulus ovalis (hmbus fossae ovahs), which is continuous inferiorly with the Eustachian valve; this fossa is the remains of an aperture, the foramen ovale, through which the two auricles communicated with each other before birth, and even in the adult a portion of the aperture persists at the upper part of the fossa in about one in five cases. Between the apertures of the superior and inferior venae cavse, and behind the upper part of the fossa ovahs, a small eminence may be distinguished, which is called the tubercle of Lower (tuberculum intervenosum); in the foetus it probably directs the blood from the superior vena cava to the tricuspid orifice.