CEEEBEAL CONNEXIONS OF OPTIC NERVE. 511 Cortical Connexions of the Optic Nerve.—The superior quadrigeminal body, the external geniculate body, and the pulvinar constitute the lower visual centres the optic tract. The higher visual or terminal nuclei of the visual part of centre is placed in the cortex of the occipital lobe of the cerebral hemisphere, and the connexions between this and the lower centres are established by a large^ strand of fibres which runs in the central white matter of the hinder part of the cerebral hemisphere, and which constitutes the optic radiation. The optic radiation is composed both of corticipetal and cor- ticifugal fibres. The former arise as the axons of the cells in the external geniculate body and the pulvinar, around which the retinal fibres end, and they terminate in the cortex of the occipital lobe. The corticifugal fibres take origin in the cortex of the occipital lobe and end in the pul- vinar and superior quadrigeminal body (Ferrier and Turner). Thus formed, the optic radiation forms a conspicuous strand (Figs. 397, p. 535; 400, p. 538; 409, p. 550), which, reaching the retrolenticular part of the internal capsule, sweeps backwards into the occipital lobe of the cerebral hemisphere on the outer side of the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle. Its connexions will be studied more fully at a later stage. Flechsig does not believe tliat tlie pulvinar is an internode interposed in the path of the optic nerve as it proceeds towards tlie visual area of the cerebral cortex. He states that he has not been able to convince himself that any fibres of the optic tract end in the optic thalamus. Other Connexions of the Lower Group of Visual Centres.—(1) The nuclei of tlie nerves which supply the muscles which move the eyeljall would appear to stand in intimate connexion with the lower group of visual centres. Most probably this connexion is established through the posterior longitudinal bundle. As previously stated, Held believes that axons of certain of the cells of the sujJerior quadri- geniinal body enter this tract. (2) Through the mesial fillet, the superior quadrigeminal Ijody is connected with the medulla and cord. Fig. 380.—Diagram of the Central Connex- ions OP THE Optic Nerve and Optic Tract. THE PARTS DERIVED FROM THE TELENCEPHALON. Cerebral Hemispheres. The cerebral hemispheres form the largest part of the fully-developed brain. When viewed from above they form an ovoid mass, the broadest end of which is directed backwards, and the longest transverse diameter of which will be found in the vicinity of the parts which lie subjacent to the parietal eminences of the cranium. The massive rounded character of the anterior or frontal end of each cerebral hemisphere constitutes a leading human characteristic ; but the hinder or occipital end is narrow and pointed, and is directed somewhat downwards. The two cerebral hemispheres are separated from each other by a deep mesial cleft, termed tbe great longitudinal fissure. Great Longitudinal Fissure (fissura longitudinalis cerebri).—In front and behind the great longitudinal fissure passes from the dorsal to the ventral aspect of the cerebral hemispheres, so as to separate them completely from each other. In its middle part, however, the fissure is interrupted and floored by the corpus callosum, a white commissural band, which passes between the hemispheres and