494 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. AT the Level of the Inferior Quadrigeminal Body. reticularis of the medulla and the dorsal or tegmental portion of the pons into the mesencephalon. It therefore consists of fine bundles of longitudinal fil)res inter- sected by arching fibres, which take a transverse and curved course. The interstices between these nerve-bundles is occupied by gray matter containing irregularly scattered nerve-cells. On its dorsal aspect the tegmentum is continuous, at the side of the Sylvian gray matter, with the bases of the corpora rpiadrigemina, whilst ventrally it is separ- ated from the crusta by the substantia nigra. The two tegmenta of opposite sides are, to some extent, marked off from each other in the mesial plane by a prolongation upwards of the median raphe of the pons and medulla, al- though, in the lower part of the mesencephalon, this is much obscured by the decussation of the superior peduncles of the cerebel- lum. The two longitiidinal straiids, termed the pos- terior longitudinal bundle and the fillet, are pio- longed upwards through- out the entire length of the mesencephalon; and they present the same relations to the tegmentum as in the lower parts of the brain. The former is placed in relation to its dorsal aspect, whilst the fillet is carried up in its ventral part. The tegmentum of the crus cerebri may be considered as presenting two parts: viz. (1) a lower part, which is placed subjacent to the inferior quadrigeminal bodies and which is largely occiipied by the decussation of the superior cerebellar peduncles (Fig. 365); and (2) a superior part, sul:)jacent to the superior quadrigeminal bodies, which is traversed by the emerging bundles of the third nerve and which contains a large and striking nuclear mass, termed the nucleus ruber or the red teg- mental nucleus (Fig. 366). In the lower part of the mesencephalon is the nucleus of the fourth nerve; in the upper part, the nucleus of the third nerve. Superior Cerebellar Peduncles (brachia conjunctiva).—As the superior cere- bellar peduncles leave the pons and sink into the tegmenta of the mesencephalon, they undergo a complete decussation subjacent to the inferior quadrigeminal bodies and the Sylvian gray matter {¥igs. 347, p. 467; 367, p. 496; and 365). • In this manner each peduncle is transferred from one side, across the mesial plane, to the opposite side. The decussation is completed at the level of the upper borders of the inferior quadrigeminal bodies, and then each peduncle proceeds upwards into the superior part of the tegmentum, where it encounters the red nucleus. Into this a large proportion of its fibres plunge and come to an end in connexion with the nuclear cells. Many of the peduncular fibres, how- ever, are carried aroiind the nucleus so as to form for it a capsule which is thicker on the inner than on the oiiter side (Fig. 366). These are prolonged into the subthalamic region, and ultimately reach the ventral aspect of the optic thala- mus, into which they proceed. A certain number of these filjres end in connexion with the cells of the thalamus, whilst it is held by certain observers that the Sii]]i'i i' pciUuirl Fio. 365.—Transverse Section through the Human Mesencephalon