1209 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. over the distal half of the fourth metacarpal bone ; (3) from the proximal part of the first incision an opening' may be made through the first interosseous space on to the dorsum, care being taken to keep below the radial arteiy ; (4) a longitudinal incision Ijetween the median and ulnar nerves, on the proximal side of the superficial palmar arch. At the wrist a longitudinal incision may be made immediately internal to the palmaris longus tendon, thus falling between the line of the median nerve and the ulnar artery. To open the digital flexor sheaths, incisions are made along the middle of the palmar surface of the fingers opposite the first and second phalanges. The collateral digital vessels and nerves descend along the lateral aspects of the fingers, nearer the flexor than the extensor surfaces. In cij.tting down upon the dorsal aspects of the phalanges, the incisions should be made to one or other side of the extensor tendon, preferably upon the ulnar side, to avoid division of the insertions of lumbrical muscles. The subcutaneous tissue of the palmar aspect of the terminal phalanges is connected by fibi'ous processes with the periosteum; hence the frequency of necrosis of the terminal phalanx in siippurative inflammations in this region. THE LOWER EXTREMITY. THE BUTTOCK. . The region of the hip or buttock extends from the crest of the ilium above to the gluteal fold below. The highest point of the iliac crest, situated a httle behind its middle, is on a level with the fourth lumbar spine; the anterior superior spine of the ilium is directed forwards, and belongs to the groin, which it hmits exter- nally ; the posterior superior spine, situated at the l)ottom of a dimple or small depression, is on a level with the second sacral spine, and corresponds, therefore, to the middle of the sacro-iliac joint. Two and a half inches Ijehind the anterior superior spine is a prominence upon the outer lip of the iliac crest; this pro- minence, which is termed the tubercular point, is the most external part of the crest, and will be again referred to in dealing with the surface anatomy of the abdomen. A hand's breadth l.ielow the tubercle of the crest is the great trochanter of the femur, the most external bony landmark of the hip; its anterior and posterior borders are best felt between the fingers and thumb, while the limb is slightly abducted to relax the ilio-tibial band, and if the thigh be now rotated, it will be noted that the trochanter rotates around the segment of a circle, the radius of which is formed by the head and neck of the femur; in non-impacted fractures of the neck of the femur the trochanter rotates around the segment of a much smaller circle. Nelafoiis line, drawn from the anterior superior spine to the most prominent part of the ischial tuberosity, crosses the hip at the \Qxe\ of the upper border of the great trochanter; this line is employed to ascertain the presence or absence of upward displacement of the trochanter. Chiene demonstrates the relative height of the trochanters by stretching two tapes across the front of the pelvis, one between the anterior superior spines, and the other l.ietween the upper borders of the trochanters; the lower tape will converge towards the upper on the side of the upward displacement. A line prolonging the anterior border of the great trochanter vertically upwards touches the iliac crest at the tubercular point. The ischial tuberosity, in the erect posture, is overlapped by the lower border of the gluteus maximus; its most prominent part is felt a little abo\ e the inner part of the gluteal fold. If the hip be rotated inwards, the lesser trochanter of the femur may be felt by deep palpation al)ove the outer end of the gluteal fold; it corresponds to the interval between the lower border of the quadratus femoris and the upper border of the adductor magnus, and therefore, also, to the level of the internal circumflex artery. The lower border of tlie gluteus maximus lies a little abo\ e the gluteal fold inter- nally, crosses it about its middle, and is continued downwards and outwards to meet the upper end of the furrow of the external intermuscular septum, at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the femur. The inner borders of the two great ghiteal muscles are separated by the deep gluteal cleft, which extends upwards and backwards from the perineum to the level of the fourth sacral spine, where it opens out into the triangle upon the back of the sacrum. Anteriorly the buttock is limited by the prominence of the tensor fasciae femoris muscle, which