THE ORGANS OF SENSE. 688 peripheral border, or margo ciliaris, is directly coutinuous with the ciliary body, and, through the medium of the ligameutum pectinatuin iridis, with the posterior elastic lamina of the cornea. Its free edge, or margo pupillaris, forms the circumference of the pupil, and rests iipon, but is not attached to the anterior surface of the capsule of the lens. The distinctive colour of the eye, in different individuals, depends on the arrangement of the jjigment in the iris; in the blue eye this is limited to the posterior surface of the iris, but in the brown or black eye it is also scattered throughout its stroma. In the albino the pigment is entirely absent, and the red appearance of the eye in such a case is pro- duced by the network of blood-vessels in the iris. The pupil is closed, during the gi'eater part of foetal life, by a thin transparent vascular membrane, the membrana pupillaris, continuous with the pupillary margin of the iris. Its vessels, derived partly from the vessels of the iris and partly from those of the capsule of the lens, converge towards the middle of the membrane, near which they form loops so as to leave the central part non-vascular. About the seventh month the vessels begin to be obliterated from the centre towards the circumference, and this is followed by a thinning and absorption of the membrane, which becomes perforated by the aperture of the pupil. This perforation gradually enlarges, and at birth the membrane has entirely disappeared, although in exceptional cases it persists. On the anterior surface (fades anterior) of the iris is a layer of flattened endothelium, placed on a basement membrane, and continuous with that which lines the spaces of Fontana and covers the back of the cornea. Depressions or ci'ypts are here and there seen in which the endothelium and basement membrane are absent, and are, by some, regarded as stomata, through which the lymphatics of the iris communicate with the cavity of the anterior chamljer. Its posterior surface (facies posterior) is covered by a basement membrane, on which are placed two layers of columnar, pigmented epithehum, continuous with the pars ciliaris retinae and termed the pars iridica retinae. The proper tissue of the iris, or stroma iridis, con- sists of delicate connective tissue and elastic fibres, with pigmented cells, blood- vessels, nerves, and non-striped muscle. The blood-vessels of the iris (Fig. 498) are derived from the long and anterior ciliary arteries. The long cihary arteries, two in number, pierce the sclera on the inner and outer side of the optic nerve respectively, and extend forwards between the sclera and chorioid towards the ciliary margin of the iris. Here each divides into an upper and a lower branch, and the resulting four branches anastomose in the form of a circle, termed the circulus arteriosus major This circle is joined by a varying number of anterior ciliary arteries derived from the lachrymal and muscular l)ranches of the ophthalmic • artery, and, after supplying the ciliary muscle, sends converging branches inwards towards the aperture of the pupil, around which a second circle, the circulus arteriosus minor, is formed. Tlie veins proceed towards its cihary margin, and communicate with the veins of the ciliary processes aiul witli the canal of Schlemm. The convergence of the blood-vessels towards i.i 5 aperture of the pupil gives to the anterior surface of the iris a striated appearan- Anterior ciliary arteries a^ ^ ^=^^ chorioid Aperture of /pupil Long •ciliary artery Circulus minor .Circulus 1 najo'r Anterior ciliary arteries Fk;. 498.—Blood-vessels of Iris and Anterior Part of Chorioid, viewed I'roin the front (Arnold).