THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM. 416 peripheral organs into the central nervous system ; and as a change of consciousness, or, in other words, a sensation is a frequent result, these fibres are often called sensory. Efferent fibres carry impulses out from the brain and cord to peripheral organs. The majority of these fibres go to muscles and are termed motor; others, however, go to glands and are called secretory; whilst some are inhibitory and serve to carry impulses which restrain or check movement or secretion. As previously stated, the spinal nerves are each attached to the cord by a veiitraLor anterior root, and a dorsal or posterior root; the fibres composing the former are efferent; whilst the fibres of the posterior root are almost entirely afferent. Nerve-cells.—-The nerve-cells constitute the active and alT^essential elements of nerve-tissue. At the very start it is necessary to draw a broad distinction between the ganglionic cells, which are found in the spinal ganglia, and the cells which are so plentifully scattered through the gray matter of the brain and cord. They differ not only in their mode of origin and in their subsequent development, but also in the connexions of the nerve-fibres to which they give origin. Nerve-cells of the Brain and Cord.—The cells in the gray matter of the cerebrospinal axis are variable both in size and form. Some are relatively large, as, for example, certain of the pyramidal cells of the cerebral cortex and the motor cells in the gray matter of the cord, which almost come within the range of unaided vision; others are exceedingly minute, and require a high power of the microscope to bring them into view. The cell consists of a protoplasmic nucleated body, from which certain processes proceed. One process is termed the axis-cylinder process or axon; and as a rule it is easily distinguished from the others, which are collectively called the protoplasmic processes of Deiters, or the dendrites. The axon presents a uniform diameter and a smooth and even outline. It gives off in its course fine collateral branches, but does not suffer thereby any marked diminution in its girth. The most important point to note in connexion with the axon, however, is the fact that it becomes continuous with the axis-cylinder^ of_a nerve-fibre. The significance of this is obvious, and will become more striking when the development of the nerve-cells is studied. The axon then is simply a nerve-fibre, and in certain circumstances it assumes, as already stated, one OL_two^ investing sheaths. The axon may run its entire course within the substance of the brain or cord either for a short or a long distance, or it may emerge from the Ijrain or cord in one of the cranial or spinal nerves as the essential part of an efferent nerve-fibre and run a variable distance before it finally reaches the peripheral structure in relation to which it ends. The axon and the col- laterals which spring from it terminate either in small button-like swellings or knobs, or more frequently in terminal arborisations, the extremities of which are free and are furnished with exceedingly small terminal varicosities. In those cases where the axon or its collaterals end within the brain or cord, some of the terminal arborisations interlace with the dendrites of nerve-cells, whilst others are twined around the bodies of other cells. In the latter case the interlacement may be so close and complete that it almost presents the appearance of an enclosing basket-work. In cases where the axon emerges from the cerebro- spinal axis its terminal arborisation ends in relation to a muscle-fibre or some other tissue in the manner already referred to. In all cases, however, it must be clearly understood that the terminal branches of the axon, no matter how complicated the connexion may appear, are free, and that the connexion is simply one of contact or contiguity, and not one of continuity. Held maintains that, although at first the terminal arborisations of an axon are quite free, in tlie process of growth and development they exhibit a tendency to become fused with the dendrites and even the bodies of other nerve-cells. The dendrites, or protoplasmic processes of the nerve-cell, are thicker than the axon, and present a rough-edged irregular contour. They divide into numerous branches, and these gradually, as they pass from the cell-body, become niore and more attenuated until they finally end in free extremities. The branching of the dendritic processes sometimes attains a marvellous degree of complexity, but it is now satisfactorily established that, except in exceptional circumstances, there is no