556 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. and is drawn backwards into its characteristic triangular shape by the backward growth of the corpus callosum. The fifth ventricle arises as a mesial cleft within it, and at no time has any connexion with the proper ventricular system of the brain. Weiciit of the Brain. The average weight of the adult male brain may be said to be about 1360 grammes. The female l)rain weighs rather less, but this is to be expected from the smaller bulk of the female body. Probably the relative weight of the brain in the two sexes is very much the same. The variations met with in brain-weight are very great, but it is doubtful if normal intellectual functions could be carried on in a brain which weighs less than 960 grammes. In microcephalic idiots brains of extremely small size are met with. THE MENINGES OE THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. The brain and spinal cord are enclosed within three membranes, which are termed the meninges or meningeal membranes. Erom without inwards these are: (1) tlie dura mater, (2) the arachnoid mater, and (3) the pia mater. The space between the dura mater and the arachnoid receives the name of subdural space, while the much more roomy interval between the arachnoid and the pia mater is called the subarachnoid space. Dura Mater. Tiie dura mater is a dense and thick fibrous membrane which possesses a very considerable degree of strength. Its arrangement within the cranial cavity is so different from that within the spinal canal that it is customary to speak of it as consisting of two parts, viz. a cranial and a spinal, although in adopting this sub- division it must l)e clearly understood that Ijoth portions are continuous with each other at the foramen magnum. Cranial Dura Mater (dura mater cerebri).—The cranial dura mater is adherent to the inner surface of the cranial wall, and performs a double office. It serves as an internal periosteum for the bones whicli it lines and constitutes an envelope for the brain. Its inner surface, which bounds the subdural space, is smooth and glistening, and is covered by a layer of endothelial cells. The outer surface, when separated from the cranial wall, is rough, this being due to numerous fine fibrous processes and blood-vessels which pass between it and the bones. Its degree of adhesion to the cranial wall differs considerably in different regions. To the vault of the cranium, except along the lines of the sutures, the connexion is by no means strong, and in the intervals between the fibrous pi'ocesses which pass into the bone there are small lymph spaces (epidural spaces) where the" outer surface of the membrane is covered by endothelial cells. So long as the sutures are open the dura mater is connected with the periosteum on the exterior of the skull, along the sutural lines, by a thin layer of fibrous tissue which intervenes between the bony margins. Around the foramen magnum, and to the floor of the cranium, the dura mater is very firmly adherent. Tliis is more particularly marked in the case of the projecting parts of the cranial floor, as, for example, the petrous portions of the temporal bones, the clinoid processes, and so on. This firm adhesion in these regions is still further strengthened by the fact that the nerves, as they leave the cranium through the various foramina, are followed by sheaths of the fibrous dura mater. Outside the cranium these prolongations of the membrane blend w"ith the filjrous sheaths of tlie nerves, and likewise become connected with the periosteum on the exterior. In the child, during the growth of the cranial bones, and also in old age, the dura mater is more adherent to the cranial wall than during the inter- mediate portion of life. The cranial dura mater is composed of two layers intimately connected witli each other, l)ut yet capable of being demonstrated in most regions of the cranium. Along certain lines these two layers separate from each other so as to form channels lined by oiulothelium. These channels are the venous blood-sinuses which receive the