1077 THE PANCREAS. contact with tlic lower portion of the gastric surface of tlie sjjleeii. It usually presents an abrupt, blunt ending, in whicli case it is related to the spleen in the manner just described ; or it may be elongated and narrow, when it bends backwards around the outer aspect of the kidney, and beneath the base of the spleen. In citlicr case it lies in contact below with tiie splenic flexure of the colon (Fig. 723). Peritoneal Relations of the Pancreas.—The posterior surface of the pancreas is entirely free from peritoneum. The other surfaces derive their peritoneal covering from the prolongation of the two layers of the transverse mesocolon, which latter is attached to the anterior border of the gland, from the tail to the neck. At this l iorder the two layers separate (Fig. 707, p. 10-48), the anterior—derived from the small sac —passing backwards and upwards over the superior surface ; the posterior—derived from the large sac—turning downwards and backwards along the inferior surface. As tlie transverse mesocolon is followed to the right it ceases, as a rule, that is, its two layers fail to meet about the neck ni' llie ]iancreas (Fig. 724). Beyond this the jiosterior surface of the colon is generally live IVmii pcritnuriiui, and is connected hj areolar tissue In tlie front of the head of the gland. Below tlie ]e\-el of the colon the liead is covered by tlie continuation down- wards of the peritoneum froiu tlie under surface of that .gut. Often, however, the transverse raesocoltai is continued to the riglit as far as the liepatic flexure, wlien the anterior surface of the head is then completely c<)\ ered by peritoneum. Ducts of the Pancreas.—Almost invariably two ducts are found in the interior of the pancreas—the pancreatic duct proper and the accessory pancreatic duct. The pancreatic duct (ductus pancreaticus Wirsungi) begins near the tip of the tail l;)y the union of small ducts from the lolniles forming that part of the organ. From this it pursues a rather sinuous or zigzag course (Fig. 7-5) through the axis of the gland, at first running transversely to the right, until the neck is reached, then l)endinu- First part of duodemnii Piiiicrwitic iliict Superior mesenteric artery Superior mesenteric vein Heitd of pancreas Braiicli of accessory duct Fig. i'>.—The Pakc'heas and Duodenum from behind, witli the jiancreatic duct exposed. The superior mesenteric vessels are iilso shown in section, passing forward, snrronnded by the recurved portion of the liead of the pancreas. downwards towards the head. Here it approaches the second portion of the duodenum, ami meeting the bile duct, the two pierce the inner wall of the gut oldicpiely (for J to I of an inch, 12 to 18 mm.), and open, by a common orifice on the bile papilla, al)out oh or 4 inches (8-7 to 10 cm.) beyond the pvlorus (see p. 1070). In its course through the gland the duct receives numerous branches, which join it, as a rule, at very open angles. These, as well as the main duct itself, are easily recognised l)y the whiteness of their walls, as contrasted with the darker colour of the gland tissue. The main duct receives branches from all portions of the pancreas, and towards its termination has attained a considerable size (namely, -^\th to ^th of an inch—2'5 to 4 mm.—when fattened out, or some- what larger than a crow (i[iiill). The accessory pancreatic duct (ductus pancreaticus accessorius, Sautorini) is a small and varialily-devcidpcd duct (Fig. 725) which opens into the duodenum about | of an inch above and somewhat in front of {t.e. ventral to) the pancreatic duct. From the duodenum it runs to the left and downwards, anil soon divides into tws or more branches, one of which joins the pancreatic duct, the others pass down and receive the ducts from the lower part of the head. It is generally supposed that the current flows from this into the main duct, and not into the duodenum, as a rule, except in early life. Physical Characters and Structure of the Pancreas.—The pancreas is of a reddish cream colour, soft to the touch, and distinctly lobulated. The lolmles are but loosely held together by their small ducts and by loose areolar tissue;