THE MALE UEETHKA. 1121 A slight median elevation, which is continuous above with the crista urethrse, projects into the canal from its posterior wall, and becoming less marked as it is traced downwards, is often seen to divide into two faint ridges. When the canal is empty other longitudinal folds or ridges are usually to be seen on the mucous membrane, but these become obliterated when the passage is distended. The terminal portion of the membranous urethra, where it is overlapped posteriorly by the urethral bulb, lies in front of the triangular ligament. It is considerably wider than the upper part of this subdivision of the canal, and is very thin-walled (Figs. 765 and 766). Spongy Portion of the Urethra.—The third or spongy portion (pars cavernosa) of the urethra is much the longest of the three subdivisions. It begins at a point about half-an-inch in front of the posterior end of the bulb, and ends at the external orifice on the glans penis. Its proximal portion has a fixed position and direction, while its distal part varies witli tlie position of the penis. The canal is about six inches in length, and is surrounded throughout its whole extent by the erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum and glans. Directed at first forwards through the bulb of the corpus spongiosum, the canal turns downwards and forwards at the point where it comes to lie in front of the lower part of the symphysis pubis (Fig. 766). This bend in the direction of the canal, roughly speaking, corresponds to the place of attachment of the suspensory ligament to the dorsum of the penis. When the peius is drawn upwards towards the front of the abdomen, the direction of the terminal half of the canal is of course changed, and at the same time the whole length of this subdivision of the urethra becomes more uniformly curved. The urethra as it enters the bulb lies at first in the upper part of the erectile tissue, but as it passes forwards it sinks deeper, and comes to occupy the middle part of the corpus spongiosum (Fig. 766). In the glans, on the other hand, most of the erectile tissue lies in the dorsal and lateral aspects of the urethra. Like the other parts of the urethra, the canal is closed except during the passage of fluid, the closure being effected by the apposition of the dorsal and ventral walls of the passage, except in the part of the canal which lies in the glans penis, where the lateral walls of the canal come into contact (Fig. 768). Thus the first part of the canal, when empty, is represented in cross section by a transverse slit, and the terminal part by a vertical sht. The spongy part of the urethra does not pre- sent a uniform calibre throughout, but is narrower in its intermediate part, where it traverses the corpus spongiosum, than it is in those portions of its course which are sur- rounded by the bulb and the glans. The terminal dilated part of the passage is termed the fossa navi- cularis urethrse, and opens on the surface by the ver- tically-placed slit-like external urethral orifice (orificium uretlirte externum), which is bounded by lateral lips, and is the narrowest and least dilatable part of the whole urethral canal. The ducts of Cowper's glands open by very minute apertures in the under wall of the proximal part of the spongy portion of the urethra. Before opening into the canal, they lie for some distance immediately beneath its mucous mem- brane. A number of little pit-like recesses, called the lacunae urethrales, also open into the spongy part of the urethra, and are so disposed that tlieir openings lead obliquely into the canal in the direction of its external orifice'. In some cases a somewhat valve-like fokl of the mucous membrane is found in the upper wall of the urethra in the region of the fossa navicularis. Fig. 768.—A Longitudinal Section of the Terminal Portion of thk Penis, and a Transverse Section through the Body of the Organ. a. Corpus c-'avernosum. d. Glans penis. g. Dorsal vein. h. Corpus spongiosum, e. Fossa navicularis. /(. Dorsal artery, c. Urethral canal. ,/'. Part of septum pectinifurme. /. Dorsal nerve.