520 THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM. Owing to the subdivision of the superior and middle frontal convolutions in the manner indicated, the typical arrangement of the convolutions in the anterior part of the outer surface of the frontal lobe is in five horizontal tiers, and not in three tiers, as formerly described. As a rule, the m]ci on the outer surface of tlie frontal lobe during the process of development appear in the following order: (1) sulcus prtecentralis inferior; (2) sulcus frontalis inferior; (3) sulcus prsecentralis superior and sulcus frontalis superior; (4) sulcus frontalis niedius; (5) sulcus paraniedialis. This gives an indication of the relative nrorpliological importance of these sulci. On tlie mesial aspect of the frontal lohe there is an elongated more or less continuous convolution, called the gyrus marginalis. It lies between the supero- mesial margin of the hemisphere and the calloso-marginal fissure. In the forepart of this gyrus one or two curved sulci are usually present. They are termed the sulci rostrales. The posterior part of the marginal convolution is more or less com])letely cut oft" from the portion which lies in front. This part is called the paracentral lobule, and into it the upper end of the fissure of Eolando is prolonged as it turns over the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere. (_)n the orbital asjiect of tlie frontal lobe there are two sulci, viz. the olfactoiy and the orbital. The olfactory sulcus is a straight furrow which runs parallel to the mesial border of the hemisphere. It is occupied by the olfactory tract and bulb, and it cuts off" a narrow strip of the orbital surface close to the mesial border, which receives the name of gyrus rectus. Tiie orbital sulcus is a composite furrow which assumes many different forms. As a general rule it presents a shape similar to that of the letter H, and is then composed of three parts, viz. an external limb, an internal limb, and a transverse limb. The external limb (sulcus orbitalis externus) curves round the orbital part of tlie inferior frontal convolution, so as to limit it on this aspect (if the brain. The internal limb (sulcus orbitalis internus) is fre- quently broken up into two ])ieces. It marks off a convolu- tion between itself and the olfa(;tory sulcus, called the gyrus orbitalis internus. The transverse limb (sulcus orbitalis transversus) takes a curved course between the internal and external limbs. The district in front is termed tiie gyrus orbitalis anterior, and that behind the gyrus orbitalis posterior. The latter, in its outer part, corresponds with the orbital operculum. Pakietal Lobe. — The parietal lobe forms a consider- able part of the external surface of the cerebral hemisphere, and it also appears on the inner surface in the form of the prsecuneus or the quadrate lobule. In front, it is bounded by the fissure of Eolando, which separates it from the frontal lobe. Below, it is limited in its forepart by the posterior horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius. Behind the upturned end of tliis fissure the surface of the parietal Fig 387.—GvKi AND Sulci oh tlie tentorial and orbital aspects of the cerebral hemispheres.