GENERAL EMBRYOLOGY. 26 many rudiments of the embryo become distinguishable at an early period in its development, e.g. the embryonic area, the primitive streak and groove, the neural groove, the notochord and the protovertebral somites, the body of the embryo does not assume its characteristic form until it becomes raised and folded off from the general surface of the blastodermic vesicle. The main cause of the folding off of the embryo from the surface of the vesicle is the more rapid growth of the embryonic area as contrasted with the slower growth and expansion of the remainder of tlie wall of the vesicle; and the moulding of the increasing embryonic area into the form of the embryo is due to differences in the rate of growth of the various parts of the area itself. The manner in which the area is folded, and the changes in tlie relative positions of its various parts wliicli necessarily result, will l)e facilitated by reference to Figs. 19 and 25. The embryonic area at an early period increases rapidly, especially in length. Its margins, however, appear to remain comparatively fixed, and hence as the area increases it must fold upon itself. It becomes somewhat convex externally, and is raised slightly above the general surface, but at the same time it apparently sinks into the interior of the ovum, and the amnion folds close over it. The antero-posterior growth is greater than the lateral; conse([uently the folding of the embryonic area is most mai'ked in front and behind. Anterior and posterior, or cephalic and caudal, folds are formed, which indicate the head and tail extremities of the embryo. Similarly, lateral folds define the lateral limits of the body. When the body of the embryo thus becomes folded off it contains a portion of the blastodermic cavity and of the coelom; the former is the primitive alimentary canal, and the latter is the rudiment of the pericardial, pleural, and peritoneal cavities. The communication between the pleuro-peritoneal and the corresponding extra-embryonic cavity is obviously Ijounded by the margins of tlie embryonic area, and it constitutes the uml)ilical orifice. The margins of the embryonic area retain approximately their original positions, and in its further growth the embiyo extends beyond them in all directions. THE EMBRYO. The embryo, now easily distinguisliable from the rest of the ovum, is already sufficiently developed to give some indication of the general plan of its oiganisation and of the ultimate relation and fate of the three layers of the blastoderm which enter into its constitution. There are as yet no limbs, but the general contour of the head and body are defined. It possesses a notochord, afterwards replaced b}' the permanent vertebral column, which constitutes a longitudinal central axis. On the dorsal aspect of the notochord the neural gi'oove is closing to form the neural canal, or primitive cerebro-spinal nervous system, whilst, on its ventral side, a portion of the blastodermic cavity is being included as a primitive tubular alimentaiy canal, which freely communicates with the remainder of the blastodermic cavity, now called the cavity of the yolk-sac. The formation of the protovertel)ral somites, whicli is the first indication of that segmentation which is such a characteristic feature in tlie structure of the vertebrate body, has commenced. The general relations of the three layers of the l)lastoderm remain imaltered. Thus, externally, there is a layer of ectoderm forming the surface of tlie body; internally, a layer of entoderm lining the primitive alimentary canal; and between them is the mesoderm, enclosing the coolom. Tlie surface ectoderm forms the epithelial elements ^ of the skin and its ' The term " Epithelium " is applied to tissues consisting of cells which are united with one another by means of a small amount of intercellular sul)stance. The cells constituting epithelium are always arranged in one or more layers ; they cover free surfaces and line the various cavities of the liodj', including the vascular and lymphatic sj'stems : they also form the active elements in secretory glands and line their ducts. Epithelium is always non-vascular, and the