THE PEOTOVERTEBRAL SOMITES. 25 are formed, the protovertebral somites are connected with the lateral mesoderm by somewhat contracted strands of cells which collectively constitute the intermediate cell mass of each side (Fig. 14). The separation of the paraxial mesoderm from the lateral plates and the segmentation of the former into somites extends forwards to the region of the hind brain, where the first protovertebral somite is formed. In front of this the mesoderm, in mammals at least, does not become segmented. The cavity of the coelom may extend into the paraxial mesoderm before it is segmented into protovertebral somites, or it may stop just outside the limits of the paraxial mesoderm. In the former case each somite, when separated from the lateral plate, contains a cavity, and the intermediate cell mass is also hollow for a J PA Fig. 19.—Early Stages in the Folding Off of the Embryo (Diagrammatic). I. Longitudinal section of a develoiring ovum. The folding off of the embryo has commeuced, and the head fold bending down in front, has invaginated the amniotic area. The tail fold is partly formed, and the primitive alimentary canal, closed in front, communicates freely with the yolk-sac by a wide umbilical aperture. II. Transverse section of a developing ovum showing the commencement of the "folding off." The thickened embryonic area is convex externally, and it already appears to sink below the surface of the ovum. III. Transverse section showing the "folding off" more advanced. The changes seen in II. are more marked, and by apparent constriction at the junction of the embryonic area with the rest of the blastodermic vesicle the embryo is still further nipped off, and distinct lateral folds are formed. 'The division of the cavity of the blastodermic vesicle into that of the primitive alimentary canal and that of the yolk-sac is shown in all the figures. .The amniotic area, directed upwards and inwards in II., forms with the placental area the amniotic fold, and in III. the amniotic folds of opposite sides are approaching one another over the back of the embryo to enclose the cavity of the amnion. The relative positions of the different areas of the blastoderm are correspondingly modified. AA. Amnion fold. EC. Ectoderm. PA. Placental area. SpM. Splanchnic mesoderm. C. Coelom. EN. Entoderm. PAC. Primitive alimentary canal. YS. Yolk-sac. BA. Embryonic area. N. Notochord. SoM. Somatic mesoderm. V. Villi. time. In the latter case the protovertebral somites and the intermediate cell masses are solid; at a later period, however, a cavity which contains a few spherical cells appears temporarily in each somite. Folding Off of the Embryo from the Blastodermic Vesicle.—Although so