IJcSO sui;face and suiuikjal anatomy. and chill. About 1 in. below the hyoid bone is the pomum Adami, more pvoiiiiiient in tlie male than in the female. On either side of the pomum Adami are the ahe of the tliyroid cartilage, while between the latter and the hyoid bone is the thyro- hyoid membrane. In the operation of sub-hyoid pharymjotmny the epiglottis and the superior opening of the larynx are reached by passing through the anterior wall of the pharynx at the level of the thyro-hyoicl membrane. The structures divided from without inwards are: the integuments, the sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and thyro-hyoid muscles, the middle j)ortion of the thyro-hyoid membrane, along with a layer of fat between it and the lower part of the epiglottis, and, finally, the giosso-epiglottideaii ligament and fold of mucous membrane. The incision must not be extended too far on either side of the mesial plane for fear of wounding the superior laryngeal vessels and nerve which jiierce the thin lateral portions of the thyro-hyoid membrane. The wound ill suicidal rut-thnntt is gcucnilly :it tliis ]i'\-el. Tlic moi-c iiiijxii'tant structuivs wliicli are usually divided are : more or less of the left steriio-iiiastoid nmscle, the superior thyroid ves.sels, the thyro-hyoid membrane, the base of the epiglottis, and, less frequently, the carotid vessels, the internal jugular vein, and the superior laryngeal nerve. When the wound is aljove the hyoid bone, the lingual and facial vessels and the muscles of the tongue are the more imjiortant structures injure(l. At the level of the middle of the anterior border of the thyroid cartilage is the rima glottidis. A little more than an inch below the pomum Adami is the anterior arch (»f the cricoid cartilage, which may be readily felt, and, when the neck is extended, often seen ; it lies a little lielow a point midway between the lower margin of the chin and the upper border of the sternum. Above the cricoid is the crico-thyroid membrane: in the operation of laryngotomy only the middle portion of the membrane is divided, in order to avoid injury to the crico-thyroid muscles. The small c;ri(;o-tliyroid liranch of the superior thyroid artery lies close to the lower ))order of the thyroid cartilage. Below the cricoid cartilage is the trachea, wliich recedes as it descends, so that it lies 11 in. from the surface at tlie level of the upper border of the sternum. The isthmus of tlie thyroid gland lies in front of the second, third, and fourth rings of the trachea (Fig. 789); not infrequently, however, it reaches up to the cricoid. Immediately in front of the trachea, lielow tlie isthmus of the thyroid, is the pretracheal fat, containing one or two lymphatic glands and the inferior thyroid veins, each represented by one or more branches which converge as tliey desceiul. In the adult the innominate artery crosses the front of the trachea at the level of the upper border of the sternum; in the child, how- ever, it not infrequeJitly crosses half an incli higher, a relation which must he remembered in performing the operation of low tracheotomy. in the operation of high tracheotomy the upper tliree rings of tlie trachea are divided. The incision, wliicli should be mesial, divides the integuments, the tributaries of tiic anterior jugular veins, the general envelope of decii cervical fascia, and, after passing between the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, the pretracheal fascia, whicli descends from the cricoid to enclose the isthmus of the tliyroid gland. By dividing this fascia transversely below the cricoid, the isthmus may be pulled downwards and the upper rings of the trachea exposed. In some cases it is necessary either to divide the isthmus or to extend the incision upwards through the cricoid cartilage. \n opening the trachea, the edge of the knife should be directed upwards so as to avoid injuring the vessels at the upper border of the isthmus. The anterior jugular veins are in danger of being wounded if the skin incision is not strictly mesial. In low tracheotomy tlie trachea below the isthmus is opened; it is a more troublesome operation on account of the dejitli of the trachea and the presence in front of it of the large inferior thyroid veins and of tlie trans- verse anterior jugular vein. In children the difficulty is increased by the higher position of the innominate artery and left innominate vein, by the presence of the thymus gland, and by the shortness of the neck. Triangles of the Neck.- The lateral aspect of the neck may be divided into an anterior and a posterior triangle by the sterno-mastoid muscle; the former is further subdi\ ided into difjfisfr/c, carotid, and muscular triangles liy the digastric and omo-hyoid muscles. Tlie ]iosterior triangle is subdi\'ided into orcipifaJ and clavicular portions by the posterior lielly of tlie onio-hyoid.