THE OEQANS OF SENSE. 682 (Fig. 493). The anterior or corneal segment, in consequence of its shorter radius, projects as a dome in front of the scleral portion, the union of the two parts being indicated externally by a slight groove, the sulcus scleree. The central Fig. 493.—Diagram of a Horizontal Section through Left Eyeball and Optic Nerve (four times enlarged). points of the anterior and posterior curvatures of the eyeball constitute respectively its anterior and posterior poles, while a straight line joining the two poles is termed its sagittal axis (axis optica). The axes of the two eyeballs are almost parallel, diverging only shghtly in front; but the axes of the optic nerves converge behind, and, if prolonged backwards, would meet in the region of the dorsum sellse of the sphenoid. An imaginary line encircling the globe midway between its two poles is named its ectuator, and meridional lines (meridiani) may be drawn from pole to pole at right angles to the equator. Its sagittal and transverse diameters are nearly equal—about 24 mm. ; its vertical diameter is about 23"5 mm. All three diameters are rather less in the female than in the male, but the size of the eyeball is fairly constant in the same sex. What are popularly described as large eyes owe their apparent increase in size to a greater prominence of the globe and to a wider fissure between the eyelids. At birth the eyeball is nearly spherical and has a diameter of about 17'5 mm. By the age of puberty this has increased to 20 or 21 mm., after which it rapidly reaches its adult size. The eyeball (Fig. 493) consists of three concentric tunics or coats, contained within which are three transparent refracting media. The three tunics are : (1) an outer fibrous coat, the sclero-cornea, consisting of an opaque posterior part, the sclera, and a transparent anterior portion, the cornea; (2) an intermediate vascular, pigmented, and partly muscular tunic, the tunica vasculosa oculi, com- prising from behind forward the chorioid, the ciliary body, and the iris; (3) an internal nervous tunic, the retina. The three refracting media are named,