THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM. 602 Obturator Nerve. The obturator nerve (n. obturatorius) supplies the muscles and skin on the inner side of the thigh. It arises in the substance of the psoas muscle by three roots placed in front of those of the anterior crural nerve, and derived from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves (Fig. 440, p. 599). Sometimes the root from the second nerve is absent. Passing vertically downwards, the nerve emerges from the psoas at its inner border, behind the common iliac, and on the outer side of the internal iliac vessels. It passes forwards below the pelvic brim in company with the obturator artery to the obturator groove of the thyroid foramen, througli which it reaches the thigh. While in the obturator groove it separates into its two main branches, named superficial and deep (Fig. 441, p. 601). The superficial branch enters the thigh in front of the obturator externus and adductor brevis muscles, and beneath the pectineus and adductor lougus. In the middle third of the thigh it is found coursing along the inner border of the adductor lougus, anterior to the gracilis; and it finally divides into two slender terminal filaments, of which one enters Hunter's canal and ends on the femoral artery, the other supplies the skin for a variable distance on the inner side of the thigh and joins in the obturator (subsartorial) plexus. The branches of the superficial part of the nerve are:— 1. An articular branch to the hip joint which arises from the nerve as soon as it enters the thigh, and supplies the joint through the acetabular notch. 2. Muscular branches to the adductor longus, gracilis, adductor brevis (usually), pectineus (occasionally). The last-named muscle is not usually supplied from the obturator nerve. 3. A cutaneous branch of very variable size forms one of the terminal branches (Fig. 442). It becomes superficial between the gracilis and adductor longus, in the middle third of the thigh, and may supply the skin of the lower two-thirds of the thigh in its inner side. It is generally of small size, and is connected with branches of the internal cutaneous and internal saphenous nerves behind the sartorius muscle to form the obturator (subsartorial) plexus. The branch from the internal saphenous nerve to the plexus passes inwards behind the sartorius after piercing the aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal. The branch from the internal cutaneous nerve is generally superficial at the point of formation of the plexus. 4. The branch to the femoral artery is the other terminal branch of the nerve. It enters Hunter's canal along the inner edge of the adductor longus, and ramifies over the lower part of the artery. 5. A fine communicating branch in front of the hip joint sometimes joins the anterior crural nerve. The deep part of the obturator nerve reaches the thigh by piercing the obturator externus muscle. It passes downwards between the adductor brevis and adductor magnus muscles. After passing obliquely through the adductor magnus, it appears in the popliteal space on the popliteal vessels, and terminates by piercing the posterior ligament and supplying the knee joint. Its branches are :—(1) muscular branches to the obturator externus, adductor magnus, and (when the muscle is not supplied by the superficial part of the nerve) the adductor brevis. The branch to the obturator externus arises before the nerve enters the muscle, in the obturator groove. The nerve to the adductor magnus is given off as the obturator nerve passes through the substance of the muscle. (2) An articular terminal branch is supplied to the back of the knee joint. Anterior Crural Nerve. The anterior crural nerve (n. femoralis) is the great nerve for the muscles and skin of the thigh. It arises in the substance of the psoas muscle, from the back of the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves, behind the obturator nerve. Passing obliquely through the psoas muscle, it emerges from its outer border in the false pelvis (Fig. 440, p. 599). Passing downwards in the groove between the psoas and iliacus, it enters the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament, external to the femoral