296 THE AETICULATIONS OE JOINTS. A synovial membrane is found lining the small joint-cavity, but it is always a direct prolongation from that which lines the ankle-joint. JOINTS OF THE FOOT. THE ANKLE-JOINT. The ankle-joint (articulatio talo-cruraHs) is a ginglymus variety of a diarthrosis. The bones which enter into its formation are the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, with the articular areas on the upper, lateral, and inner surfaces of the astragalus. The tibia and fibula, aided by the transverse inferior tibio-fibular ligament, form a three-sided socket within which the astragalus is accommodated. The roof or highest part of the socket, which is wider in front than behind, is formed chiefly by the quadrilateral articular surface which characterises the lower end of the tibia, but towards its postero-external margin the transverse inferior tibio-fibular liga- ment assists in its formation. Here also the tibial articular surface is continuous with the narrow articular facet already described as forming part of the inferior tibio-fibular joint. The inner wall of the socket is formed by the articular facet on the outer side of the internal malleolus, and there is no interruption of the articular cartilage between the roof and inner wall. The outer wall of the socket is quite separate from the foregoing parts, and consists of a large triangular facet upon the inner side of the external malleolus. This facet is situated immediately in front of the deep pit which characterises the posterior part of this surface of the fibula. A small lunated facet is frequently found upon the anterior surface of the lower end of the tibia, particularly among those races characterised by the adoption of the " squatting " posture. When this facet exists it is continuous with the anterior margin of the roof of the socket, and it articulates with a similar facet upon the upper surface of the neck of the astragalus in the extreme flexion of the ankle-joint which " squatting " entails. The articular surface upon the body of the astragalus adapts itself to the tibio- fibular socket, and presents articular facets corresponding to the roof and sides of the socket. Thus the superior surface of the astragalus possesses a quadrilateral articular area, wider in front than behind, distinctly convex in the antero-posterior direction, and slightly concave transversely. In addition, towards its postero- external margin, there is also a narrow antero-posterior facet corresponding to the transverse inferior tibio-fibular ligament. The articular cartilage of this upper surface is continued without interruption to the tibial and fibular sides of the bone, although the margins of the superior area are sharply defined from the lateral facets, the outer of which is triangular in outline, while the inner is pyriform, Imt in each case the surface is vertical. Ligaments.—The ligaments form a complete investment for the joint, i.e. a capsule in which the individual parts vary considerably in strength, and are described under separate names. The anterior ligament (Fig. 229) is an extremely thin membrane, containing very few longitudinal fibres. It extends from the lower border of the tibia to the ,,..,...,.„,,,. . upper border of the head of Anterior inferior tibio-nbular ligament J^i Anterior talo- fibular ligament the astragalus, passing in front of a pad of fat which fills up the hollow above the neck of that bone. The posterior ligament (Fig. 226) is attached to con- tiguous non-articular borders of the tibia and astragalus. Many of its fibres radiate inwards from the external malleolus. This aspect of the joint is strengthened by the strong, well-defined, trans- verse ligament already described in connection with the inferior tibio-fibular joint. Tlie external lateral ligament (Figs. 227 and 229) is very powerful, and is divisible Articular facet on external malleolu External malleoln.s Calcaneo-fibular v j/» ligamcnil, "t/ Posterior inferior'^ ^ tibio-fibular ligament Posterior talo-hbular ligament Internal malleolus Transverse inferior tibio-libular ligament Synovial pad of fat Fig. 227.—Articular Surfaces of Tibia and Fibula which abe opposed to the astragalus.