427 SUMMAEY OF CHIEF CHAEACTEES OF SPINAL COED. as 1:5 ; and in the cervical region as 1:5"1. When it is remembered how tlie gray matter expands in tlie himbar and cervical regions, and how greatly it becomes rednced in the dorsal region, the significance of these figures will become more apparent. Summary of the Chief Chakacters presented by the Cord in its Different Eegions. Cervical Region. Dorsal Region. Lumbar Region. Sacral Region. In transverse section, outline of cord transversely oval; in the middle of tlie cervical swel- ■ ling the transverse diameter being nearly one-third longer than the antero-posterior di- ameter. In transverse section, outline of cord more nearly circular; but still the transverse diameter is greater than the antero- posterior diameter. In transverse section, outline of cord more nearly circular than in dorsal region. In transverse section, outline of cord nearly circular, but still somewhat com- pressed from before backwards. Postero-median cleft very deep, extend- ing beyond the centre of cord: antero-median cleft shallow. Postero-median cleft very deep, extend- ing Ijeyond centre of cord: antero- median cleft shal- low. Postero-median cleft not nearly so deep as in regions al)ove: antero-median cleft, on the other hand, much deeper. Postero-median and antero-median clefts of equal depth. Gray matter greatly increased in quan- tity in the cervical swelling: anterior horn thick and massive; posterior horn slender in comparison. Lateral horn only evident above the level of the fourth cervical nerve. Formatio reticularis strongly marked. Gray matter greatly reduced in quan- tity. Both horns exceedingly slender. Lateral horn well marked. Formatio reticularis scarcely api^arent. Gray matter greatly increased in the lumbar swelling. Botli horns very thick and massive. Lateral horn ab- sorbed in anterior horn. Formatio reticularis absent. Both horns of gray matter very thick and massive. Lat- eral horn apparent. No formatio reti- cularis. White matter in great quantity, and es- pecially massed in the latei'al and pos- terior columns. "White matter less in quantity than in cervical I'egion, but bulking largely in conijmrison with the quantity of gray matter. "White matter small in quantity in rela- tion to higher re- gions, and very small in amount in relation to increased quantity of gray matter. "White matter very small in quantity in comparison with the gray matter. Posterior paramedian groove and septum well marked. Posterior paramedian groove absent; but the corresponding septum can be traced as low down as the eighth dorsal nerve. No posterior para- median groove or septum. No posterior para- median groove and no corresjjonding septum. Central canal con- siderably nearer the anterior surface than the posterior surface of the cord. Central canal con- siderably nearer the anterior surface than the posterior surface of the cord. Central canal in the centre of the cord. Central canal in the centre of the cord.