GENEEAL EMBRYOLOGY. 50 together, and the whole is surrounded by the expanding amnion. In this way the umbilical cord is formed. It includes therefore the allantoic stalk and its l)lood- vessels, togetlier with the remains of the yolk-sac and its stalk, the ^'itello-intestinal duct, all of which are invested and bound toge{;]ier by the amnion. The mesodermal core of the cord forms a fibro-mucoid tissue known as " Wharton's jelly," which consists of stellate and irregular cells embedded in a gelatinous matrix. The blood-\'essels of the cord are situated in the core, and include two allantoic or uml)ilical arteries wliich run spirally round a single umbilical vein. The terminal portion of the allantoic diverticulum projects into the embryonic end of the cord, and at first a loop of intestine protrudes into it for a short distance; the gut, however, soon recedes into the abdominal cavity. The unil)ilical cord, which extends from the umbilical orifice to the centre of the placenta, is at first short and straight. As the amnion expands the length of the umbilical cord increases until, at the time of birth it measures, on an average, about 20 inches. This increase in the length of the cord allows the foetus to float freely in the amniotic fluid, and prevents traction on the placenta. After the middle of the second month the umbilical cord is twisted spirally, usually from riglit to left. It is suggested that tliis is due either to the great elongation of the allantoic arteries or to muscular movements of the foetus, and it involves a rotation of the foetus in tlie anniiotic fluid. The Chorion.—Tlie chorionic area, by far the largest of the areas into which the blastoderm is divisible, lies external to the amniotic area. In most mammals it consists at first of ectoderm and entoderm, but after the extension and cleavage of the mesoderm has taken place, it is formed hy ectoderm and somatic mesoderm. In man, however, it consists in the earliest stages of ectoderm alone, Init on the formation and extension of the mesoderm it also accpiires an inner layer of somatic mesoderm. In all cases, therefore, it eventually consists of the same two layers. The ectoderm of the chorionic area which immediately surrounds the amniotic area thickens to foi'm the annular placental area, and in this way the chorionic area liecomes divisible into placental and non-placental regions. When the blastodermic vesicle enters the uterus numerous ectodermal \ illous processes grow from the surface of the chorionic area, both in its placental and non- placental parts, and attach themselves to the uterine mucous membrane. As already pointed out in the description of the formation of the amnion, the embryonic and amniotic areas do not become attached to the uterus, but remain free from it, whilst by the approximation and fusion of its inner margins, the rapidly growing ring-like placental area is converted into a disc which intervenes between tin' amnion and the uterine wall. The chorionic area after the separation of tlie anmion is known as the chorion or chorionic membrane. The chorion forms the outer wall of a \ esicle, the choricinic vesicle, wliich is the modified remains of the blastodermic vesicle and which contains the embryo, the yolk-sac, the anmion, and the allantois. It consists of an outer layer of ectoderm and an inner layer of somatic mesoderm. The cavity of the chorion is the extra-embryonic portion of the cu}lom. For a time it remains distinct, and is traversed by the allantoic stalk wliich unites the embryo to the inner or mesodermal layer of the placental area. The ca\ ity is ultimately obliterated by the gi'owth of the amnion, the latter sac expanding rapidh' till its outer surface is in contact and' intimately l)lended with the inner surface of the chorion. The Chorionic Villi.—Tlie villous processes which begin to grow from the surface of the cliorionic area before it is separated from the amnion continue to develop after the separation of the two meml)ranes is completed. They penetrate the surrounding uterine tissues. At first eacli consists of ectoderm only, but a core of vascular mesoderm is soon acquired. The \'illi increase in size and in com- plexity also, but ultimately only those in the placental area persist and continue to grow ; the remainder atrophy and disappear. Thus the ])lacental region of the chorion eventually constitutes the main Ijond of union between the ovum and the mother, and it forms the foetal ])art of the placenta.