744 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. orifices are placed one on eacli side below and beliind ; in front and between them is the aortic orifice, whilst the orifice of the pulmonary artery is still farther forward, and shghtly to the left of the aortic. In the triangle (trigona fibrosa) between the auriculo-ventricular and the aortic orifices is embedded the central fibro-cartilage, a mass of fibro-cartilaginous tissue which is the representative of the os cordis of the ox. It is continuous with the upper part of the interventricular septum, and with fibrous rings which surround the apertures at the bases of the ventricles. The apex of the ventricles forms the apex of the heart. The inferior surface and the antero-superior surface constitute respectively the greater portions of the corresponding surfaces of the heart; the former rests upon the diaphragm, whilst the latter is directed upwards and forwards towards the sternum and the costal cartilages of the left side. The right margin, which is thin, forms the horizontal portion of the right margin of the heart; and the left margin, which is thick and rounded, forms almost the whole of the left margin of the heart. The ventricular portion of the heart is divided into right and left chambers. The interventricular septum (septum ventriculorum) is placed obhquely, with one surface directed forwards and to the right, and the other backwards and to the left; it bulges into the right ventricle, and its lower margin lies to the right of the apex of the heart, which is, therefore, formed entirely by the left ventricle. Tlie margins of the septum are indicated on the surface by anterior and inferior interventricular sulci. The right ventricle (ventriculus dexter) is triangular in form. Its base is directed upwards and to the right, and in the greater part of its extent it is con- tinuous with the right auricle, with which it communicates by theauriculo- ventricular orifice; but its left and anterior angle projects in front of the auricle, and gives origin to the pul- monary artery. Its inferior wall rests upon the diaphragm. The antero- superior wall lies behind the lower part of the left half of the sternum and the cartilages of the fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs of the left side. The left or septal wall, which is directed backwards and to the left, bulges into its interior, and on this account the transverse section of the cavity has a semilunar ou;tline. The cavity itself is separable into two parts—a right or posterior portion, the body, into which the auriculo-ventricular orifice opens, and a left or anterior portion, the in- fundibulum or conus arteriosus, which terminates in the pulmonary artery. The two sections of the cavity are separated above by a thick fold of muscle, but otherwise they are quite continuous with eacli- other. The right auriculo-ventricular orifice is guarded by a tricuspid valve (valvula tricuspidalis). The three cusps of this valve are a right or marginal (cuspis medialis), a left or infundibular (cuspis anterior), which intervenes between the auriculo-ventricular orifice and septal (cuspis posterior). Each cusp Fig. 550.—The Eel.vtions Auriculo-Ventriculak, OF THE Aortic, Heart and the AND Pulmonary Orifices to the Anterior Thoracic Wall. T to Vn, Costal cartilages. A, Aortic orifice. Ao, Aorta. C, Clavicle. LA, Left auricle. TiV, Left ventricle. M, Mitral orifice. P, Pulmonary orifice. RA, Right auricle. RV, Right ventricle. SVc, Superior vena cava. T, Tricuspid orifice. the infundibulum, and a posterior or