THE TEETH. 965 At the end of this period, namely, about the sixth year, the next stage in the production of the adult condition begins. It consists in the eruption of four new teeth—the first permanent molars—one on each side, above and below, behind those of the milk set. This is followed by the gradual falling out of the twenty teeth which have occupied the mouth since the second year (Fig. 648), and the sub- stitution for them of twenty new teeth, which take up, one by one, the vacancies created by the dropping out of each of the milk set. Finally, the adult condition is attained by the eruption of eight additional teeth—the 2nd and 3rd molars— two on each side, above and l)elow, behind those which have already appeared. All of these—the permanent set—have appeared by the end of the twelfth or thirteenth year, except the four wisdom teeth, which are usually cut between the seventeenth and twenty-fifth year, hut are often delayed until a very much later period, and occasionally never appear. The set of teeth which, as indicated above, begin to appear in the infant about the sixth month, are known as the deciduous, temporary, or milk teeth (dentes decidui), whilst those which succeed them and form the adult equipment are the permanent teeth (dentes permanentes). The milk teeth are twenty in number, and are named as follows in each jaw, beginning at the middle line:—central incisor, lateral incisor, canine, first molar and second molar; or more briefly, two incisors, one canine, two molars. This is con- veniently expressed by the " dental formula " for the deciduous teeth in man, which shows the number of each class of teeth above and l)elow on one side of the mouth, viz.: — I. -5, C. ■in. Enamel The permanent teeth, thirty - two in number, are named in each jaw, beginning at the middle line:—central incisor, lateral incisor, canine, 1st premolar (or bicuspid), 2nd premolar (or bicuspid), 1st molar, 2nd molar, and 3rd molar or wisdom tooth (dens serotinus). The dental formula for the permanent set in man is thus :— Ci'owi Pulp cavity m. ^. Neck c. f, pm. General Form and Structure.—A tooth consists (Fig. 649) of (1) the crown (corona dentis), the portion projecting aliove the gum, which varies in shape in the different teeth, and in all, except the incisors and canines, bears on its head or grindino- surface a number of tubercles or cusps (tubercula coronfe), varying in number from two to five in the different teeth; (2) the neck (collum dentis), the faintly constricted part which is surrounded collar-wise by the gum, and which connects the crown with (3) the root (radix dentis), the portion of the tooth which is ernbedded in the alveolus of the maxilla or the mandible. In the majority of teeth, namely, in all except the molars, the root, as a rule, is single, or nearly so, and consists of a long, tapering, conical, or flattened piece, perfectly adapted to the alveolus in which it lies. In the molar teeth (and in some of the others occasion - ally) the root is divided into two or three tapering or flattened roots or fangs. At the apex of each root there can be made out, even with the naked eye, a minute opening (foramen apicis) through which the vessels and nerves enter the tooth. Root Bout; 1 \ Cement or cru.sta petrosa Alveolar periost eum or root-membrane Fig. 649.—Vertical Section of Cakine Tooth. to illustrate its various parts, and its structure.