THE EESPIEATOEY SYSTEM. 926 The first collateral branch arises from the right bronchus, much nearer the trachea than in the case of the left bronchus. It is this which determines the length of these primary divisions of the trachea, and although there is much varia- tion in this matter, it may be said that, as a rule, the left bronchus is at least twice as long as the right bronchus. According to Henle there are from six to eight rings in the right and from nine to twelve rings in the left bronchus. A marked difference is also noticeable in the calibre of the two tubes. The right bronchus is wider than the left in the proportion of 100:78-4 (Braune and Stahel), and this asymmetry, is clearly due to the fact that the right lung is more bulky than the left. The right bronchus, as it passes towards the hilus of the right lung, takes a more vertical course than the left bronchus. It therefore lies more in the line of the trachea, and to this, as well as to its greater width, is due the greater tendency which foreign bodies exhibit, when introduced into the trachea, to drop into the right in preference to the left bronchus. The average angle wliich the right l)ronchus forms with the median plane is 24'8°, whilst the angle formed bv the left bronchus with the median plane is 45-6°. The more horizontal course of the left bronchus is probably determihed by the marked projection of the heart to the left side of the mesial plane (Merkel). Relations of the Bronchi.—Arching forwards over the right bronchus is the vena azygos major, whilst arching backwards over the left Ijronchus tliere is the arch of the aorta. Occupying the interval between the l)ronchi there is a cluster of bronchial lymphatic glands, and an irregular chain of similar glands is carried along each tube towards the lung. On the posterior aspect of each bronchus the vagus nerve breaks up into the posterior pulmonary plexus, whilst the left l)ronchus, as it proceeds downwards and outwards, crosses in front of the cesophagus and the descending thoracic aorta. But perhaps the most interesting relation is that presented on each side by the corresponding pulmonary artery. On the left side the pulmonary artery crosses in front of the left bronchus above the level of its first collateral branch, and then turns round its outer side to gain its posterior aspect. All the left bronchial branches, therefore, are placed below the left pulmonary artery, and are in consequence termed hyparterial. The riglit pulmonary artery, on the other hand, crosses in front of the continuation of the right l)ronchus beLnv its first collateral branch. This branch is therefore termed the eparterial bronchus, whilst all the others are classified as hyparterial. Structure of the Walls of the Bronchi.—The walls of the bronchi present u structure similar to that seen in the trachea. THE THOKACIC CAVITY. A central vertical partition, termed the mediastinum thoracis, which extends from the vertebral column behind to the anterior thoracic wall in front, subdivides tlie thoracic cavity into two large lateral chambers which contain the lungs. From the fact of each of these chambers being lined by an extensive and separate serous mem})rane called the pleura, they receive the name of tlie pleural cavities. The mediastinum or intervening partition is Iniilt up of several structures which lie in or in close proximity to the mesial plane. The more important of these are the heart, enveloped in its pericardium, the thoracic aorta, with the great vessels which spring from its arch, the pulmonary artery, and the great-veins in tlie neighl)ourhood of the heart, the thymus gland or its remains, the trachea, cesophagus, and thoracic duct, and the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves. The pleural cavities in which the two lungs lie comprise much the largest part of the thoracic cavity. Each is bounded helow by the corresponding cupola of the diaphragm; and as the right cupola rises to a higher level than the left, the right pleural cavity presents a smaller vertical depth than the left. In front, the wall of each Y)leural chamber is formed by the costal cartilages and the sternum, laterally, l)y the shafts of the rilis and the intercostal muscles as far back as the angles of the ribs, behind, by the portions of the ribs, with the intervening inter- costal muscles which lie internal to the costal angles, and internally, by the bodies of the vertebrae and the mediastinal partition which completely shut off the one