681 THE EYE. and is continuous with a fibril of the olfactory nerve. Eacli of these nerve fibrils probably retains its independence from its point of origin in an olfactory cell to its termination in the olfactory bulb, in the glomerular layer of which it forms a free arborisation. 3. Basal Cells.—These cells are branched, and lie on a basement membrane between the deep extremities of the supporting and olfactory cells. Olfactory Nerves.—These nerves traverse the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and are at first lodged in the bony canals or grooves situated on the inner and outer walls of the olfactory area, and, reaching the deep surface of the mucous membrane, are continued into the central processes of the olfactory cells. The olfactory nerves possess no meduUary sheath. f The fifth cranial nerve supplies branches of ordinary sensation to the nasal mucous membrane as follows: The septum is chiefly supplied by the naso-palatine nerve, but its posterior part receives some filaments from Meckel's ganglion and the Vidian nerve, and its anterior portion from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. The outer wall is supplied—(1) by the iipper nasal branches of the Vidiaq. nerve and Meckel's ganglion ; (2) by the lower nasal branches derived from the anterior palatine; and in front by (3) the outer division of the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. The floor and anterior part of the inferior meatus are supplied hy a nasal branch of the ai\terior superior dental nerve. Blood-vessels.—Arteries. The chief artery of the nose is the spheno-palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery. This reaches the nasal cavity through the spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into—(a) posterior nasal, which ramifies over the turbinated bones and sends branches to the antrum and to the frontal and ethmoidal cells; and (6) naso-palatine, the artery of the septum. Twigs are given to the upjier portion of the cavity by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal arteries, wdiile its jjosterior part receives some small branches from the descending jjalatine vessel. The nostrils are supplied "by the lateral nasal branch of the facial, and by the septal artery of the superior coronary. The antrum is partly supplied by the infraorbital artery, whilst the sphenoidal sinus gets its chief supply from the pterygo-palatine vessel. The veins form a dense plexus almost resembling cavernous tissue in structure. This condition is well seen in the resjiiratory region, and especially so over the middle and inferior turbinated bones and on the lower part of the septum. The venous blood is carried in three chief directions, viz. fonvards into the facial vein, hackimrds into the spheno-palatine vein, and iqnvards into the ethmoidal veins. The ethmoidal veins communicate with the ophthalmic veins and the veins of the dura mater; further, an ethmoidal vein passes up through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and eitber opens into the venous jalexus of the olfactory bulb or directly into one of the veins of the orbital part of the frontal lobe of the brain. The lymphatics form an irregular net- work in the superficial part of the mucous membrane, and can be injected from the subdural or subarachnoid space. The larger vessels are directed back-wards towards the choanag and are collected into two trunks, of which the larger passes to a lymphatic gland in front of the axis vertebra and the smaller to one or two glands situated near the great cornu of the hyoid bone. The development of the nose is described in the section which deals with " General Embryology " (p. 36). THE EYE. The eyeball or globe of the eye (bulbus oculi) constitutes the chief part of the organ of sight (organon visus); but, associated with its description, certain accessory structures, such as the eyelids and the lachrymal apparatus, fall to be considered. THE EYEBALL. Situated in the anterior part of the orbital cavity, the eyeball is protected in front by the eyelids and by their mucous hning, the conjunctiva, and is pierced behind by the optic nerve, or nerve of sight, which spreads out to form its innermost tunic, the retina. The tendons of the ocular muscles are attached to its outer surface a short distance in front of its equator, while its posterior two-thirds are enveloped by a loose membrane, termed the capsule of Tenon, or fascia bulbi, which separates it from the surrounding orbital fat. The eyeball is not quite spherical, being composed of the segments of two spheres, viz. an anterior, transparent, corneal segment, possessing a radius of 7 or 8 mm., and a posterior, opaque, scleral segment, with a radius of about 12 mm.