930 THE EESPIEATOEY SYSTEM. on to the right side of the trachea; whilst below this level, and behind the peri- cardium, it passes from the vertebral bodies on to the oesopiiagus. On the left side, and above the arch of the aorta the pleura along this line of reflection is carried from the vertebral column on to the oesophagus and thoracic duct; below that level it passes on the upper part of the chest the right and left from each other to the descending thoracic aorta. In lines of reflection are placed well apart Left and about equidistant from the mesial plane. As they are traced downwards the\' approach uiore closely to each other and deviate tu the left, so that whilst the reflection on the n'f/ht side takes j^lace from the front aspect of the vertebral bodies, on the left side it takes place from the left aspect of the vertebral column. This is due to the pcjsition of the descend- ing thoracic aorta. 1'he anterior line of pleural reflection is that along which the costal pleura leaves the anterior thoracic wall to become the mediastinal pleura. The line differs somewhat on the two sides, and in both cases shows a tendency to deviate to the left (Fig. 628, p. 928). Behind the upper part of the manubrium sterni the two pleural sacs are separated from each other by an angular inter- val. The lines of reflection at the inlet of the thorax correspond to the sterno- clavicular joints. From these points, as they are traced downwards, they converge on the back of the manubrium, imtil at last they meet a short distance above the upper end of the gladiolus. Here the two sacs come into contact with each other, and the lines of reflection coincide. From this they proceed down- wards on the l)ack of the steriutm, with a slight de- viation to the left of the mesial plane, until a point immediately above the level of the sternal attachments of the fourth costal cartilages is reached, and here the two sacs part company. The line of reflection of the right pleura is continued downwards in a straight line behind the sternum until the back of the ensiform cartilage is reached, and here the sternal reflection-line passes into the right diaphragmatic reflection-line. Opposite the sternal attachment of the fourth costal cartilage the reflection- line of the left jileura deviates outwards on the back of the sternum, and is continued downwards at a variable distance from the right pleura. A small triangular area of pericardium is thus left uncovered by pleura, and therefore in direct contact with the anterior chest-wall. Leaving the sternum, the reflection-line of the left pleura descends iJiairiinigm Fic. 630 Left Pleural Sac in a Subject hakdened bv Fokmalin- INJECTION, opened into by the removal of the co.stal part of the parietal pleura. The lung has also been removed so as to display the media- stinal pleura.