STEUCTUEE OF THE HEAET. 747 section, and after special methods of preparation, it is possible to recognise many layers and bundles, some of which are, however, probably artificially produced. In the auricles the muscular fasciculi fall naturally into two -groups, those special to each auricle, and those common to both auricles ; the former are situated deeply under cover of the latter. The deep special fibres are—(a) Loo^Jed fibres which pass over the auricles from before back- wards or from side to side ; their extremities are attached to the fibrous rings which surround the auriculo - ventricular orifices. (b) Annular fibres which surround (1) the extremities of the large vessels which open into the auricle, (2) the auricular appendices, and (3) the fossa ovalis. The superficial fibres, which are common to both auricles, for the most part run transversely across the auricles, but a few of them turn into the interauricular septum. They are most numerous on the anterior aspect. In the ventricles, also, two main groups of fasciculi, a superficial and a deep, have been described, but it is in this region especially that there is doubt regarding the individuality of many of the muscular bundles which have been noted, for it appears probable that many of them are artificial products due to the method adopted by the dissector. There is no doubt that in the middle of the thickness of the ventricular walls the arrangement of the fibres is mainly circular, some surrounding one and some both ventricles. Near the surfaces the fasciculi assume an ol^lique direction, and it is not improbable that many of the bundles are arranged in figure of 8 loojjs, whose iipper extremities are attached to the fibrous rings round the auriculo- ventricular orifices. The superficial fibres of the ventricles are attached above to the fibrous rings at the base, and from this attachment they pass obliqiiely downwards to the apex, those on the anterior surface trending towards the left, and those on the inferior surface towards the right. On the inferior surface almost all the fasciculi appear to pass across the septum, but on the anterior surface the middle fasciculi dip into it, and only those near the base and apex cross from right to left. All the superficial fibres which reach the apex are coiled there into a whorl or vortex, through which they pass upwards into the substance of the left ventricle, those descending from the front and left side entering the base of the posterior papillary muscle, whilst those from the back and right side terminate in the anterior papillary muscle. The muscular fasciculi wliich enter the papillary muscles are continued, by means of the chordae tendinese, to the fiaps of the mitral valve and so to the fibrous ring round the mitral orifice; obviously, therefore, many of the superficial fasciculi of the ventricles form simjjle oblique loops which commence externally at the fibrous rings round the right and left auriculo-ventricular orifices, and terminate internally by gaining attachment to the ring round the left of these orifices (mitral). The deep fascicidi of the ventricles may be subdivided into two main groups—(1) Those common to both ventricles, and (2) those special to each ventricle. The fasciculi common to both ventricles include—(«) Fibres which commence above from the posterior sections of the fibrous ring at the base of the right ventricle ; either directly or by means of the chordae tendineae of the posterior papillary muscle they pass obliquely downwards to the septum, traverse it, and ascend to the front of the fibrous ring at the base of- the left ventricle. (6) Fibres from the anterior portions of the fibrous ring at the base of the right ventricle, M'hich pass obliquely downwards and assume a transverse course in the posterior wall of the left ventricle, (c) Annular fibres which encircle both ventricles. The deep special fibres of the left ventricle are (a) V-shaped loops which commence at the fibrous ring at the base, and descend to the apex, where they turn upwards in the septum, and terminate by joining the central fibro-cartilage; (b) fibres which descend from the base, enter the lower and front part of the septum, and, passing through it, assume an annular course in the posterior wall. The deep special fibres of the right ventricle are (a) looped fibres which pass downwards in the external wall from the fibrous rings to the apex, where they enter the septum and ascend to the central fibro-cartilage ; (6) circular fibres round the jiulmonary orifice ; and (c) radiating fasci- culi from the base of the anterior papillary muscle to the front part of the pulmonary orifice. The epicardium, or visceral portion of the pericardium, consists of white connective and of elastic tissue, the latter forming a distinct reticulum in the deeper part. The surface which looks towards the pericardial cavity is covered with flat polygonal endothelial plates, which are partially separated here and there by stomata through which the pericardial cavity communicates with the lymphatics of the epicardium. The endocardium lines the cardiac cavities and is continuous with the inner coats of the vessels which enter and leave the heart. It consists, like the epicardium, of white connective tissue and elastic fibres, but it is much thinner than the epicardium, and its elastic fibres are in some j)laces blended into a fenestrated membrane. Its inner surface is covered with endothelial cells, and it rests externally upon the sub-endocardial tissue, in which there are blood-vessels and nerves ; the endocardium itself is entirely devoid of vessels. Size of the Heart.—The heart is about five inches (125 mm.) long, three and a-half inches (87 mm.) broad; its greatest depth from its antero-superior to its inferior surface is two and a-half inches (62 mm.), and it is roughly estimated as being about the same size as the closed fist. The size, however, is variable, the volume increasing at first rapidly, and then gradually, with increasing age, from 22 cc. at birth to 155 cc. at the fifteenth year, and to 250 cc. by the twentieth year. From this period to the fiftieth year, when the maximum volume (280 cc.) is attained, the in- crease is much more gradual, and after fifty a slight decrease sets in. The volume is the same in both sexes u^J to the period of puberty, but thereafter it preponderates in the male.