1122 UEOGENITAL SYSTEM. Structure.—The superficial cells of the mucous uicuibratie lining the urethra are colunniar as far as the fossa navicularis, where they become replaced by squamous epi- thelial cells. Excejjt near the terminal part of the canal, the mucous memljrane contains numerous minute mucous glands, called glands of Littr^ (glanduUc urethrales), the ducts of which open into the urethi'a. Beneath the mucous membrane is an exceedingly vascular layer, wliich is surromided by a coat of unstriped muscle, continuous superiorly with the muscular tissue of the prostate and bladder. The erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum is placed immediately outside the muscular coat of the canal. A small amoiuit of erectile tissue is also present surrounding the membranous urethra. THE FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. The reproductive glands in the female consist of a pair of ovaries placed later- ally in the cavity of the pelvis. In conuectioii with each ovary is an elongated passage or tube—the Fallopian tube—leading to the uterus, into the cavity of which it opens. There is no direct continuity between tlie ovary and the EaUo- pian tube, such as exists ))etween the other glands of the body and their ducts, but the ova produced in the i)vary pass int(j the open end of the tube, and are thws conducted to the uterine cavity. The uterus, or womb, is a hollow muscular organ which occupies a nearly median p(jsition in the pelvis; it is joined })y the Eallopian tubes above, and it communicates with the upper part of the vagina below. The ovum, having passed through the Fallopian tube,reaches the cavity of the uterus, and in it, if fertilisation takes place, the ovum undergoes its development into embryo and foetus. The vagina is the passage leading from the uterus to the exterior. Its external opening lies behind that of the urethra, within the urogenital space. In connection with the urogenital space are a number of structures which are included under the term external genital organs, and which represent in the female the various parts of the penis and scrotum in the male. These are the Parovaruiiii Liganipnt Lateral angle Falloiiian tubi' | Ovary ot ovary Uteru.s <i of uterus Vaginal cavity A B Fig. 769.—A. The Uterus and Buoau Licament nekn khom bkhixu (tlie broail ligament has been .spread out). a, /), and c, the isthmus U\h-x, tlie ligament of the ovary, and the round ligament of the right side cut short. B. DiACRAMMATIC REPRE.SENTATION OV THE UTEKINE CAVrFY OPENED UP FROM IN FRONT. labia majora and tlie mens Veneris, the labia minora, the clitoris, and the bulbus vestibuli. The glands of Bartholin, placed one on each side of the lower part of the vagina, are accessory organs of the female reproductive system, and represent Cow[)er's glands in tlie male. THE OVAEY. The ovary (ovarium) is a solid l)ody, flattened from side to side, and about the size and shape of a large almond. In the adult the ovary is placed against the side wall of the pelvic cavity, and is connected by peritoneal folds with the broad ligament of the uterus and with the lateral wall of the pelvis. Although these