1205 THE FOEEAEM AND HAND. under cover of the supinator longus. The ulnar nerve can he rolled lieneath the linger upon the hack of the internal condyle : its position renders it lia))le to injury in severe fra.ctures ahout the elbow, and in excising the joint care must be taken not to Bracuiaiis anticus- Cephalic vein- Biceps ir —O injure the nerve. THE FOBEARM AND HAND. The upper half of the radius is deeply placed; the lower half is, however, easily palpated. The anterior border of its lower extremity is felt as a prominent transverse ridge, situated 1 in. above the thenar eminence; immediately below the ridge is the radio-carpal articulation. The tip of the styloid process, situated nearly -h in. lower than that of the ulna, is deeply placed at the outer side of the wrist, in the hollow between the extensor tendons of the first and second phalanges of the thumb. Upon the middle of the posterior surface of the lower end of the radius is the dorsal radial tubercle wliicli intervenes between the extensor of the second phalanx of the .thumb and the short radial the wrist; the be distinctly felt, taken guide end of Lister's Median cephalic vein Tendon of biceps Musculo-spiral nerve Posterior interosseons. nerve Supinator longu.'- Radial nerve Brachial artery Basilic vein Brachialis anticus .Median basilic vein Bicipital fascia Tendon of flexor carpi radialis Base of styloid process — Radial artei-v Ulnar nerve Ulnar artery Median nerve Flexor carpi ulnaris Flexor sublimis digitonun Pisiform bone Anterior annular ligament Superficial palmar arch Deep palmar arch extensor of tubercle can and may be to the upper dorso-radial incision for excision of the wrist. The posterior border of the ulna is subcu- taneous throughout, and may be felt along the interval be- tween the flexor and extensor carpi ulnaris muscles. Upon the ulnar side of the dorsal aspect of the wrist is a well- marked rounded prominence formed by the lower extremity of the ulna, anterior to which is the styloid process, the deep groove between the two being occupied by the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. The carpal bones are built up so as to form an arch, converted by the anterior annular ligament into a tunnel ibr the transmission of the flexor tendons. At each extremity of the arch the two bony points to which the ligament is attached furnish important landmarks. These bony points are : externally, the tubercle of the scaphoid and the ridge of the trapezium; internally, the pisiform and the hook of the unciform. The tubercle of the scaphoid is felt immediately above the root of the thenar eminence, midway l)etween the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the flexor carpi radialis; \ in. below the tubercle of the scaphoid is the ridge of the trapezium, felt deeply beneath the inner part of the thenar eminence. At the root of the hypothenar eminence, and crossed by the crease Fig. 812.- -Bend of Elbow, Front of Fokearm, OF Hand. AND Palm