760 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, with branches of the crico-thyroid artery and with the terminal branches of the inferior thyroid artery. (c) The sterno-mastoid branch (ramus sterno-cleidomastoideus) passes downwards and backwards along the upper border of the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle and across the common carotid artery to the under surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It anasto- moses, in the sterno-mastoid, with branches of the occipital and suprascapular arteries. (2) In the muscular triangle (d) a crico-thyroid branch (ramus crico-thyroideus) runs forwards, either over or under the sterno thyroid, and crosses the crico-thyroid muscle to anastomose in front of the crico-thyroid membrane with its fellow of the opposite side, and, by branches which perforate the crico-thyroid membrane, with laryngeal branches of the superior and inferior thyroid arteries. It supplies the adjacent muscles and membrane. (e) The terminal branches are anterior and posterior respectively. The anterior terminal branch (ramus anterior), often much larger than the crico- thyroid artery, descends along the anterior border of the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, and, extending on to the upper border of the thyroid isthmus, anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side. The posterior branch (ramus posterior) de.scends along the posterior border of the lateral lobe, and both terminal branches supply the thyroid body (rami glandulares). They anastomose with each other and with branches from the inferior thyroid artery. (2) Lingual Artery.—The lingual artery (a. lingualis, Figs. 554 and,556) springs from the front of the external carotid, opposite the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and terminates, as the ranine artery, beneath the tip of the tongue, where it anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side. Course.—From its commencement, and whilst in the carotid triangle, the first part of the artery forms a loop with the convexity upwards. A second part passes forwards, immediately above the great cornu of the hyoid bone, to the anterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle, where it gives off a sublingual branch. A third part passes obliquely forwards and upwards under cover of the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, and a fourth part runs directly forwards on the under surface of the tongue to the tip. The third and fourth parts are frequently described together as the ranine artery (a. profunda linguae). Relations.—The first part of the lingual artery is crossed superficially by the hypo- glossal nerve, but beyond this it is only covered by skin, fascia, and the platysma; it rests internally against the middle constrictor of the pharynx. In the rest of its course the artery is for the most part more deeply placed. The second part, remaining in contact internally Avith the middle constrictoi', passes beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, by which it is separated from the hypoglossal nerve, the ranine vein, and the lower part of the sub- maxillary gland. The third part ascends almost vertically, parallel with and laider the anterior fibres of the hyo-glossus, which is here covered by the mylo-hyoid, and between it and the genio-hyo-glossus. The fourth part runs forwards between the inferior lingualis and the genio-hyo-glossus muscles, and is only covered on its lower surface by the mucous membrane of the tongue. Thus the lingual artery at its termination, near the frtenum linguse, is again comparatively superficial. Branches.—(a) The supra-hyoid (ramus hyoideus), a small branch which arises in the carotid triangle and runs along the upper border of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. It anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side and with the infrahyoid branch of the superior thyroid artery. (h) The dorsalis linguae (ramus dorsalis linguae) is a branch of moderate size which arises from the second part of the artery. It ascends on the genio-hyo-glossus to the dorsum of the tongue, where it branches and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side round the foramen caecum. It supplies the posterior part of the tongue as far back as the epiglottis, and sends branches backwards to the tonsil which anastomose with the tonsillar branches of the ascending palatine branch of the facial and with the ascending pharyngeal artery. (c) A sublingual branch (a. sublingualis) arises at the lower part of the anterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle and runs forwards and upwards, between the mylo-hyoid and the genio-hyo-glossus, to the sublingual gland, which it supplies ; it also supplies the mylo- hyoid, the genio-hyo-glossus, and the genio-hyoid muscles, and it anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, with the continviation of the lingual by a branch which it sends along the fra3num linguse, and through the mylo-hyoid muscle with the submental branch of the facial.