985 THE PHAEYNX. By the contraction of the palato-pharyngei muscles, which are enclosed within the palatine arches, the sides of the isthmus can be approximated, like two curtains, and its size correspondingly diminished. When, at the same time, the uvula and soft palate are elevated, and the whole pharynx in this region is narrowed by the contraction of the superior constrictor, the aperture can be completely closed, and the oral separated from the nasal pharynx, as in the acts of swallowing and vomiting. The tonsils (tonsillte palatinae, amygdalae) are two large, oval masses of lymphoid tissiie which are embedded in the lateral walls of the oral pharynx, Ijetween the anterior and posterior palatine arches (Fig. 661). As already pointed out, there is in this region a triangular interval (the sinus tonsillaris), situated between the two Internal .iugular vein Hypoglossal nerve Spinal accessory nerve j j Internal carotid artery Digastric muscle I Stylohyoid Glosso- pharyngoiil nerve Parotid gland' Teniijoro- niaxillary vein External carotid artery Styloglosau Ascending palatine arterv j T-,' Internal pterygoid-!— Epiglotti Frennlnm eijiglottidis Massetf Pharyngeal portion. of tongue Fungiform papilla Buccinator Pneumogastric nerve Sympathetic Ascending pharyngeal artery I idontoid process Post-pharyngcal iynilihatic gland Superior constrictor muscle Posterior palatine arch Tonsil P'larvngo-epiglottic fold Anterior palatine arcli Circunivallate papilla^ Rajjlie of tongue (jonical paiiillie Fungiform papilla Fid. 664.—Horizontal Section through Mouth and Pharynx at the Level of the Tonsils. The stylopliaryngeus, which is sliown immediately to the inner side of the external carotid artery, and the prevertebral muscles, are not indicated by reference lines. palatine arches and the side of the tongue. The greater part of this interval is occupied by the tonsil. In its upper part, however, above the tonsil, there is usuall)" found a variably-developed depression already referred to as the supra- tonsillar fossa. The tonsil lies under cover of the ramus of the jaw, and corresponds in position to a point a little above and in front of its angle. Its inner or pharyngeal surface is prominent, and closely beset with ni^merous deep, pit-like depressions—the crypts of tlie tonsil. These crypts are most numerous in the upper part of the mass, where, in particular, they form a series of irregular inter-communicating passages. The outer or attached surface is enclosed in a distinct fibrous capsule connected with the pharyngeal aponeurosis, outside which lie the superior constrictor of the ])harynx and the internal pterygoid muscles (Fig. 664).