653 THE THOEACIC PLEXUSES. contributes also to the left anterior pulmonary plexus hj tiljres whicli extend outwards to the root of the hmg along the left l)ranch of the pulmonary artery. Pulmonary Plexuses. — As already stated, the pneumogastric nerve on each side, on reaching the l)ack of the root of the lung, breaks up into uumeroiis plexi- form branches for the formation of the posterior pulmonary plexus. From each nerve a few fibres pass to the front of the root of the lung, above its upper l)order, to form the much smaller anterior pulmonary plexus. The anterior pulmonary plexus on each side is joined l)y a few fil)res from the corresponding part of the deep cardiac plexus, and on the left side from the superficial cardiac plexus as well. It surrounds and supplies the constituents of the root of the lung anteriorly. The posterior pulmonary plexus, placed Ijehind the root of the lung, is formed l)y the greater part of the pneumogastric nerve, reinforced by fine branches from the second, third, and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympa- tlietic. Numerous branches pro- ceed from it in a plexiforni manner along the ])ronchi and vessels into the substance of the lung. (Esophageal Plexus (plexus gulai).—The oesophagus in the thorax is supplied by the pneu- mogastric nerve ])oth in the superior and posterior media- stinum. In the superior media- stinum it receives branches from the pneumogastric nerve on the right side, and from its recurrent laryngeal branch on the left side. ' In the posterior mediastinum it is surrounded 1 )y the oesophageal plexus, formed from the trunks of the pneumogastric nerves emerg- ing from the posterior pulmonary plexus, which form a large plexus -The Distribution of THE Pneumogastric Nerve. r. Ganglion of the root and Fk;. 469. Va.R, Va.L, Right and left vagi connexions with Sy, Sympathetic, superior cervical gang- lion ; G.Ph, Glosso - pharyngeal ; Ace, Spinal accessory nerve ; m, Meningeal branch ; Aur, Auricular branch ; t, Ganglion of the trunk and connexions with Hy, Hypo- glossal nerve ; CI, C2, Loop between the first two cervical nerves ; Sy, Sympathetic ; Acc, Spinal accessory nerve ; Ph, Pharyngeal branch ; Ph.PI, Pharyngeal plexus ; S.L, Superior laryngeal nerve ; I.L, Internal laryngeal branch ; E.L, Extei'nal laryngeal branch ; I.C, Internal, and E.C, External carotid arteries ; Cal, Superior cervical cardiac branch ; Ca2, Inferior cervical cardiac branch ; R.L, Recurrent laryngeal nerve ; Ca3, Cardiac branches from recurrent laryngeal nerves ; Ca4, Thoracic cardiac branch (right vagus) ; A.P.Pl, Anterior, and P.P.Pl, Posterior pulmonary plexuses ; Oes.Pl, OSsophageal plexus; Gast.R, and Gast.L, Gastric branches of vagus (right and left); Cce.Pl, Coeliac plexus ; Hep.Pl, Hepatic plexus ; Spl.Pl, Splenic plexus ; Ren.PI, Renal plexus.