THE PLACENTA. 51 THE PLACENTA. Uecidua basalis Gland f Unchanged I Dilateil part Fnnnel shaped Unchanged layer Stratum spongiosum \ Uterine o. , , (mucosa / Stratum com pactum -' id-\'PSHel Ectodermal villus The placenta i.s the organ of foetal nutrition and respiration. In it the blood-vessels of the foetus and those of the uterus are brought into such close relationship with one another that free interchanges readily take place between the blood of the mother and that of the foetus. In the simplest form of a placenta tlie foetal villi are merely em- bedded in the maternal mucous membrane, and the relationship between foetal and maternal blood is not very close. In other forms, e.g. the human placenta, the relation of foetal to maternal blood is much more intimate; this involves marked modi- fications in the elements of the placenta, and its structure becomes corre- spondingly more complex. In all forms, howeTer, the placenta consists of fcetal and maternal portions. Before the impregnated ovum reaches the uterine Decidua vera Cavity of uterus Inner cell mass (Entoderm) Decidua vera Fig. 37.—Diagram, showint the relation of the young the decidua. liuraau ovum to Decidua basalis Unchanged layer | Maternal vessel Stratum spongiosum stratum compactum Placental villus Priiiutivp streak "Mesoderm Tlie ectoileiiii is distinct from tlie inner cell mass, but as yet there i.s no entodermal cavity in the latter. cavity the mucous meml>rane of tlie uterus undergoes certain changes in preparation for its reception and retention, and the modified nuicous membrane is known as the uterine decidua. These changes are, for the most j)art, hypertrophic; the vas- Placental villus cularity of the mucous membrane is increased mainly by the dilatation of its veins and capillaries, the tubular uterine glands become elongated, ir- regular, and tortuous, and they dilate both at their orifices and in the deeper part of the mucous mem- brane ; at the same time the interglandular con- nective tissue proliferates, and as a result the decidua Villus Mesoderm Entcdorm Decidua vera Fig. 38.—Diagram, showing a further stage of development of the human ovum and its relation to the decidual tissues. The entodermal cavity or yolk-sac has appeared in the inner cell mass, and the mesoderm has commenced to extend from the primitive streak in two layers, splanchnic on the yolk-sac and somatic on the ectoderm. is thicker,softer, and more spongy than the unaltered mucous membrane. When the developing ovum enters the uterus it merely rests, at first, on the surface of the decidua, but by the growth of a circular fold of the decidua it becomes gradually covered, and on the fusion of the margins of the fold it is entirely enveloped. As soon as the circular fold which surrounds the ovum arises it is possible to distinguish three decidual areas: