MUSCLES ON THE BACK OF THE FOEEAEM. 333 External condyle of humerus Inshrtion of TRICEPS Extensor muscles (origin) Supinator radii BREVIS Flexor carpi ULNARIS Exten'sor'carpi ULNARIS the muscle spreads outwards and downwards, enveloping the upper part of the radius, and is inserted into the anterior and outer surfaces of the bone, as far forwards as the bicipital tubercle, as far upwards as the neck, and as far down- wards as the oblique line and the insertion of the pronator radii teres. The supinator brevis is deeply placed, and is un- covered only anteriorly in the hollow of the elbow. It is covered by all the superficial muscles on the back of the forearm. It conceals the back of the elbow joint and the upper part of the radius. At its lower border is the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, separated from it by the posterior interosseous artery. The muscle is divisible into superficial and c^eep parts with humeral and ulnar regions, between which the posterior inter- osseous nerve passes to reach the back of the fore- arm. The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis (m. abductor pollicis longus) aris3s below the supinator brevis from the posterior or extensor surfaces of the radius and ulna, and from the intervening portion of the interosseous mem- brane. Becoming super- ficial in the lower part of the '.forearm along with the extensor brevis pollicis, it passes beneath the posterior annular ligament, to be inserted into the outer side of the base of the first metacarpal bone. At its origin the muscle is deeply placed beneath the superficial extensor muscles and the posterior interosseous vessels and nerve. Above is the sup- inator brevis; below and internally, the long and Extensor lonqus pollicis Extensor indici; Dorsal branch of ulnar nerve Extensor minimi DiGiTi (tendon) Extensor communis DIGITORUM (tendons) Extensor indicis Tric:eps (long head) I riceps (outer head) liRACHIO-RADIALIS Brachialis anticus Biceps Iriceps (inner head) Extensor carpi radialis LOKOioR (origin) Extensor carpi radialis brevior (origin) Musculo-spiral nerve Radial nerve sterior interosseous nerve Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis Extensor carpi radialis ONOIOR Extensor carpi radialis brevior Extensor brevis pollicis Lxii s-,0R carpi radialis lonoior Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis Extensor carpi radialis brevior Extensor brevis pollicis Extensor longus pollicis First dorsal interosseous MUSCLE Fig. 247.- -The Muscles of the Back of the Foeearm (the superficial muscles being reflected). short extensors of the thumb. In the lower third of the forearm it becomes superficial along with the extensor brevis pollicis, between the extensor communis and the radial extensors of the carpus. It covers the last-named digitorum