THE ORGANS OF SENSE. 690 Oar conception of the minute structure of the retina, as of all nervous tissues, has of late years been greatly advanced by the discoveries of llamon y Cajal, on wliose observa- tions the following description is based (Fig. 500):— The layers from witiiin outwards, i.e. from vitreous body to chorioid, arc : 1. Layer of nerve fibres (stratum opticum). 2. Tjayer of nerve cells (ganglionic laj-er). 3. Inner molecular or inner plexiform layer. 4. Inner nuclear layer or layer of inner granules. 5. Outer molecular or outer plexiform layer. 6. Outer nuclear layer or layer of outer granules. 7. Layer of rods and cones (bacillary .layer). 8. Layer of pigmented epithelium (stratum pigment!). 1. Layer of nerve fibres or stratum opticum.—The fibres of this stratum are nearly all centripetal and are mostly continuations of the non-meduUated axons of the cells in the ganglionic layer. Some, however, are centrifugal and end in branched clubbed extremities in the inner molecular or inner nuclear layers. 2. Ganglionic or nerve-cell layer.—The cells of this stratum vary in size, are oval or pyriform in shape, and form a single layer, except at the macula lutea, where several strata are present. " Each cell contains a large nucleus, and gives off, from its inner aspect, an axon, which is continued as a fibre of the nerve fibre layer. From the outer surface of each cell numerous dendrites arise, which form arborisations in the inner molecular layer. The cells may be divided into unistratified, multistratified, and diffuse, according as their dendrites ramify in one or in several strata of the inner molecular layer or extend throughout nearly its whole thickness. 3. Innermolecular or inner plexiform layer. -This is chiefly constituted b}' the interlacement of tiie dendritic arborisations of the cells of the gan- glionic layer with those of tiie inner nuclear layer*, and has been divided by Ramon y Cajal into five strata. It sometimes contains horizontal cells or spongioblasts, whose branched processes ramify in it. 4. Inner nuclear layer or layer of inner granules.—Tliis is the most complicated of the retinal strata and consists of numerous cells, which Membrana liiiiitaiis interna may be divided into three groups, viz. : (a) bipolar Fig. 499.-DIAG.RAMMATIC Section of the ^oUs, (6) horizontal cells, and (c) spongioblasts. Human Retina (moaifiod from Sclmltzi;). («) The bipolar cells ar.e fusiform and nucleated, and each gives oft' an external and an internal pi'ocess. The internal processes terminate in flattened tufts at dift'erent levels in the inner molecular layer, while the external produce an abundant ramification in the external zone of the outer molecular layer. These bipolar cells are divided into rod bipolars, cone bipolars, and giant bipolars. The rod bipolars end peripherally in vertical arborisations around the button-like ends or spherules of the rod fibres, and, centrally, in branched extremities, which mostly become applied to the cells of the ganglionic layer. The cone bipolars end peripherally in flattened ai'borisations in the outer molecular layer in contact with the ramifications of the cone fibres, and, centrally, ramify in some one of the five strata of the inner molecular layer. Tiie giant bipolars form, peripfierally, an extensive hori- zontally-arranged arborisation in the outer molecular layer; centrally, tliey ramify in one or other of the strata of the inner molecular layer. [h) Tiie horizontal cells are of two varieties : (1) small, flattened, star-like cells, lying immediately below the outer molecular layer and sending a tuft of dendrites outwards towai'ds the bases of the cone fibres, while their axons ai-e directed horizontally for a variable distance ; (2) large, irregular cells, lying internal to the above and ending in finger-like ramifications in the outer molecular layer. Their axons run horizontally for some distance and end in extensive varicose arborisations under the spherules of the rod fibres. (c) The spongioblasts are situated in the innermost part of the inner granular layer and have not yet been shown to possess axons. Their dendrites ramify in the inner