THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 860 tissue. The larger spaces are lined by a layer of flattened endothelial cells, with sinuous outlines, similar to the cells of the lymphatic capillaries; hut the smaller spaces have no endothelial lining, and they are limited only by the cells of the tissue in which they lie. The precise nature of the communications lietween lymphatic spaces and lymph capillaries has not been definitely ascertained; l^ut undoubtedly lymph passes from the spaces into the capillaries, and probably it does so because the spaces and vessels are directly continuous. As alternative explanations, it may be suggested either that the passage is due to the existence of stomata in the walls which separate spaces from the capillaries, or that it may he due to transudation tlirough intervening tissues. Lymph capillaries.—Lymph capillaries are not only much larger and more irregular than [)lood capillaries, l)ut they are also larger than the lymphatic vessels into which they open. They are lined by a single layer of endothelial cells which possess very sinuous outlines; apparently they are in direct structural continuity with lymph spaces, and they anastomose freely together, forming plexiform laliyrinths. Lymphatic vessels.—The smallest lympbatic vessels are much narrower in calil)re than the lymph capillaries witli which they are continuous. Their walls consist of an internal lining of endothelial cells of fusiform shape and regular outline, and an outer layer of fine connective tissue. They are provided with numerous valves, and when distended have a beaded appearance. The larger lymph vessels possess three coats — (1) An internal coat (tunica interna), formed by a layer of endothelial cells, of fusiform shape, and of regular, but sinuous, outline. (2) A middle coat (tunica media) of unstriped muscle fibres, arranged for the most part circularly, but some of which run obliquely or longi- tudinally. The interspaces l^etween the muscle fibres are filled with a fine con- nective tissue. (3) An outer coat (tunica externa) of mixed white fibrous and elastic tissue, which is not sharply separated from the middle coat on the inner side or from the surrounding tissues on the outer side. It may also contain a few unstriped muscle filtres. In the largest vessels the two outer coats consist prin- cipally of muscle ; they are, therefore, very friable. All the large vessels are provided with numerous bicuspid valves, which are formed by folds of the inner coat; and as the lumiua of the vessels are enlarged just above the attachments of the valves, the vessels assume a characteristic beaded appearance when they are distended. Lymphatic vessels anastomose freely together, and the majority form communi- cating channels lietween different groups of lymphatic glands, leaving the more distal glands as efferent vessels and entering the more proximal glands as afferent vessels. Some of the lymphatic vessels, however, are afferent only; they simply carry lymph from the periphery to the nearest glands; whilst others, which carry lymph from tlie last Set of glands to the terminal trunks, are efferent only. The lymphatic vessels, unlike the veins which they usually accompany, do not increase greatly in cahbre as they converge towards their terminations; they often branch, and they frequently anastomose together. In certain places, particularly the central nervous system and the spleen, lymph capillaries or even lymphatic vessels completeh'- ensheath the smaller 1 )lood - vessels, forming perivascular lymphatic spaces. Lymphatic glands.—Lymphatic glands are giol)ular, ovoid, flattened, or. irregular bodies, and each gland presents a localised depressed area which is known as the hilus. They vary consideral)ly in size, some being no larger than a pin's- head, whilst others are as large as a bean. In colour they are usually grayish pink, but the tint varies with the position, vascularity, and state of activity of the gland. The glands of the lung are generally lilackened by the deposition of carbonaceous material in their sul)Stance, and those of the liver and spleen have frequently a brownish hue. The glands of the mesentery are creamy or white whilst the chyle is rapidly passing through them, but when tlie alisorption of food-material fntm the intestine ceases they l)ec(jnie a rosy pink. Structure of Lymphatic Glands.—Lymphatic gland?^ consist of (1) a skeleton or f ramework, (2) ]yni])li sinuses, and (3j lymiili tollicles and cords.