957 GLANDS. fibres. (3) Tlie glossopharyngeal nerve passes forwards beiieatli tlie upper part of tlie hyoglossus, and sends its terminal Iji'anclies to the mucous membrane of the posterior third of tlie tongue, supplying the circumvallate pa])ill;B, and the part of the tongue behind these, with both gustatory and common sensory filjres. (4) The internal laryngeal nerve also distributes a few filires to the posterior part of the base of the tongue, neai' the ejjiglottis. The lymphatics of the anterior half of the tongue i)ass down through the floor of the mouth and join the submaxillary lymphatic glands. Those from the posterior half run with the ranine vein across the hyoglossus muscle (where they are connected with some small lingual glands) and join the deep cervical glands. GLANDS. Various urgans, diti'eriug widely Ituth in structure aud function, are commonly included under the general term glands. It is made to embrace : (a) the glands 'with ducts, such as the digestive glands (liver, pancreas, salivary glands, etc.), the sweat and sebaceous glands of the skin, the testes, etc., and the small glands emljedded in the walls of the digestive and respiratory tracts; (h) the so-called ductless glands (spleen, thyroid, suprarenals, etc.), which possess no ducts, but throw their secretions into the blood or lymph passing through them; and (c) the lymphatic glands, which cannot properly be classified under either of the other groups. We shall here consider only the true glands—namely, those included in the first group mentioned above, which are all characterised liy the possession of ducts ; and what follows refers to them alone. A gland may be defined as an epithelial organ which separates or elaljorates from the blood some substance which is either to be discharged from the body or used further in the economy. The product of the activity of the gland is known as its secretion, and the secretion is conveyed to its destination in all true glands, as explained above, by the gland duct. Every gland is primarily an outgrowth of the epithelium from the surface to which the secre- tion of the gland is ty be subsequently conveyed. This outgrowth may remain undivided, con- stituting a simple gland. On the other hand, it may break uj) into two or more branches, giving rise to a compound gland. We thus arrive at tlie two great classes of glands—simi^le and compoiuid. A simple gland may remain tul)ular, when it is known as a drivple f iihidar gland, ui v^-hich Lieberkuhu's follicles in the wall of the small intestine and the sweat glands are examples. Or it may be dilated at its extremity, the enlargement being known as an acinus {aKcvos, a grape or grajje-stone) or alveolus, thus constituting a simple acinous or alveolar gland, of which there are few exam])les in man (viz. some sebaceous glands), though they are numerous in the skin of the frog, etc. This gi\'es us two varieties of siiii])le glands—tuljular and acinous or alveolar. Similarly a compound gland may remain tubular, constituting a comjmimd tubular gland, such as the kidney, testicle, and the majority of the gastric' glands. Or, on the other hand, the terminal liranches of its ducts may lie beset with dilatations (v'.c. acini or alveoli), giving rise to a comjwund acinous or alveolar gland, ^^■]lich latter, owing to a remote resemblance presented by its clustering lobules to a miniature bunch of grapes, is often known as a racemose gland {racemus, a cluster). Most of the glands of the body are examples of this variety—e.g. the salivary glands, the small glands of the mouth, tongue, i)harynx, ocso])liagus, respiratory passages, eyelids, etc. Thus we arrive at two varieties of compound glands also—tubular and acinous or alveolar. A compound acinous (racemose) gland is composed of a main duct which branches and re-branches more or less freely according to the size of the gland, and the terminal divisions of which end finally in specialised secreting parts, the acini or alveoli, (piite distinguishable from the ducts or conducting parts. In true acinous glands the acini or ah'eoli are distinctly saccular ; in other glands, such as the pancreas, this is not the case, the acini being long and narrow. Accordingly, the term acino-tuhular has been introduced and ajaplied to glands of this latter type, which is usually made to include the pancreas, the iirostate, and Brunner's glands.^ It should be added that the term acino-tubular is by some authors used exclusively instead of acinous for all I'aceinose glands. There is one gland, however, which cannot be included in any of the above varieties, and which must be placed in a class by itself. This is the liver. It is composed of an enormous number of small secreting lobules, between which run the branches of the bile-duct. These lobules in the mammalian liver cannot in any way be compared to acini, or to collections of acini, as their cells are not arranged around a central lumen, but form a practically solid mass, with minute l;>ile capillaries running everywhere between them. It might in mamnials, for want of a better term, be classed as a solid gland. The foregoing may be summarised in tabular form thus :— I. Simple glands.—Duct undivided. {a) Simple tubular.—Undilated at end—e.g. Lieberkiihn's follicles, sweat, and many gastric glands. (h) Simple p-cinous (alveolar or saccular).—Dilated at end—e.g. some sebaceous glands (rare). ' Some authorities consider the glands of Rruniier to belong to the class of conipound tubular glands (Heideuliain, VVatney, Joiniesco, etc.).