445 MEDULLA OBLONGATA OE BULB. basal lamina. This subdivision is also noticeable in the cerebral part of the neural tube, and the furrow on the inner aspect of the lateral wall, which indicates this subdivision, can be traced even in the adult brain throughout the greater part of its length. In the spinal cord the motor cells are gathered in the basal lamina in one long continuous column. In the brain the corresponding cells from which the efferent fibres of the cranial nerves are given off are also placed within the basal lamina, but they are arranged differeiitly. They ng longer form a continuous column, but are collected together in disconnected clusters termed the motor nuclei, and they do not extend higher up than the mid-brain. No motor nuclei occur in the basal lamina of the fore-brain. Indeed, the importance of the basal lamina diminishes as we pass from the lower to the higher parts of the brain. In the rhombic or hind-brain the greater part of the medulla oblongata and of the pons Varolii is formed from the basal laminae, whilst the cerebellum, with its superior and inferior cerebellar peduncles, is derived from the alar laminae. In the mid-brain the crura cerebri are the derivatives of the basal laminae, whilst the corpora quadrigemina are developed from the alar laniinfe. In the fore-brain the subthalamic region and the optic vesicles are products of the growth of the basal laminae, whilst the optic thalami and cerebral hemispheres spring from the alar laminae. The fact that the cerebellum and the cerebral hemispheres owe their origin to the alar laminae is sufficient to show the predominant part which these laminae play in brain development, and the higher we ascend in the animal scale the more pronounced does this predominance become. The following table gives a summary of the various developmental processes which have been described in the foregoing pages:— ( Ehombenceplialoii or Hind-brain (posterior cerebral vesicle) Myelenceplialon Metencephalon (narrow constricted part immediately adjoining the mesencephalon) Superior cerebellar peduncles Valve of Vieussens Encephalon 01' Brain Mesencephalon or Mid-brain (middle cerebral vesicle) Mesencephalon or Mid-brain I Corpora quadrigemina Crura cerebri Thalamencephalon or Diencephalon Optic thalami Subthalamic tegmental regions Pituitary and pineal bodies Structures in interpeduncular Prosencephalon or Fore-brain (anterior cerebral vesicle) space Optic nerve and retina Hinder part of the third ven- Telencephalon ^ tricle ■ Cerebral hemisj)heres Olfactory lobes 1Lateral ventricles Foramina of Monro Anterior portion of the third ^ ventricle THE PARTS OF THE ENCEPHALON DERIVED FROM THE HIND-BRAIN. MEDULLA OBLONGATA OR BULB. The medulla oblongata or bulb is the continuation upwards of the spinal cord. It is not more than one inch in length, and it may be regarded as beginning at the