917 INTERIOB OF THE LAEYNX. points of the vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages, whilst the glottis respira- toria is somewhat quadrangular. When the glottis is opened widely the broadest part of the fissure is at the extremities of the vocal processes of the arytenoids, and here the side of the rima presents a marked angle. The two vocal cords, on the other hand, may be approximated to each other so closely, as in singing a high note, that the glottis vocalis is reduced to a linear chink. Tlie length of tlie rinia glottidis differs very considerably in the two sexes, and upon this dej^ends the different character of the voice in the male and female. According to Moura, the following are the average measurements in the quiescent condition of the rima :— Male—Lengtli of entire rima glottidis, /glottis vocalis, 15-5 nun. 23 mm. ..... \.glottis respiratoria, 7'5 mm. Female—Length of entire rima glottidis, /glottis vocalis, 11'5 mm. 17 mm. (.glottis resjnratoria, 5'5 mm. By stretching the vocal cords, however, the length of the rima glottidis in the male may he increased to 27'5 mm., and in the female to 20 mm. The i^osition of the rima glottidis may he indicated on the surface by marking a point on the middle line of the neck 8-5 mm. below the bottom of the thyroid notch in tlie male and 6'5 mm. in the female. This is the average position (Taguchi). Laryngeal Sinus (ventriculus laryngis).—The side wall of the larynx, in the interval between the false and the true vocal cords, exhibits a marked pocket-like depression or recess called the laryngeal sinus. The recess passes upwards so as to undermine somewhat the false vocal cord, and its mouth is somewhat narrower than its cavity. In front it reaches forwards to the angle between the alai of tlie thyroid cartilage, whilst Ijehind it ends at the anterior l)order of the arytenoid cartilage. Under cover of the forepart of the false vocal cord a small slit-like aperture may be detected; this leads upwards from the laryngeal sinus into a small diverti- culum of mucous membrane, termed the laryngeal saccule (appendix ventriculi), which ascends between the false vocal cord and the aln of the thyroid cartilage. The laryngeal saccule is of variable extent, but as a rule it ends blindly at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Sometimes the saccule extends much higher, and may even reach the hinder part of the great coruu of the hyoid bone. This is of interest when considered in connexion with the extensive laryngeal pouches of the anthropoid apes. Lower Compartment of the Laryngeal Cavity. —This leads directly downwards into the trachea. Al)Ove it is narrow and compressed laterally, but it gradually widens out until, in its lowest part, it Ijecomes circular, in correspondence with the trachea with which it is continuous. It is bounded by the Fig. 620.—Specimen showing a great sloping inner surfaces of the crico-thyroid membrane larynx"^ ^^'^'^^^''^ "^"^ and by the inner aspect of the cricoid cartilage— l)oth covered by smooth mucous membrane. In the operation of laryngotomy the opening is made through the anterior wall of this compartment. Mucous Membrane of the Larynx.—The mucous membrane which lines the larynx is continuous above with that lining the pharynx, and below with mucous membrane of the trachea. Over the posterior surface of the epiglottis it is closely adherent, but elsewhere, above the level of the true vocal cords, it is loosely attached by submucous tissue which extends into the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. As it passes over the true vocal cords the mucous membrane is very thin, and is tightly botmd down. It is important to bear these facts in mind, because in certain inflammatory conditions the lax submucous tissue in the upper part of the larynx is liable to become infiltrated with fluid, pi-o- ducing what is known as oedema glottidis. This may proceed so far as to cause occlusion of the upper part of the cavity. The close adhesion of the mucous mendirane to the true vocal coi'ds.