THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 820 skin and fascia, except at its termination, where it lies beneath the internal annular liga- ment and the origin of the abductor hallucis. Lateral.—The artery is accompanied by two venae comites, one on either side. The posterior tibial nerve lies at first on the inner side of the vessel, then crosses behind it, and is continued down on its outer side. In the last part of its course the artery is separated from the internal malleolus by tlie tendons of the tibialis posticus and the flexor longus " digitorum, whilst the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis lies behind and external to it. Branches.—The posterior tibial gives off numerous branches, the largest of which, the peroneal, forms one of the chief arteries of the leg. The branches include— (1) Two large muscular branches which are distributed to the soleus, the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, and the flexor longus hallucis. They anastomose with the deep sural branches of the jiopliteal artery and the lower internal articular artery. (2) Tlie medullary branch (a. nutricia tibite), the largest of the medullary group of arteries, springs from the upper part of the posterior tibial, pierces the tibialis posticus, and enters the medullary foramen on the posterior surface of the tibia. In the interior of the bone it divides into ascending and descending branches, the former passing upwards towards the head of the bone, and the latter downwards towards the lower extremity. Before entering the tibia tlie medullary artery gives small muscular branches. (3) A communicating branch (ramus communicans) unites the posterior tibial to the peroneal artery about an inch above the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. It passes behind the shaft of the tibia and in front of the flexor longus hallucis. (4) Cutaneous branches are distributed to the skin of the inner and posterior part of the leg. (5) An internal malleolar branch (a. malleolaris posterior medialis) is distributed to the internal surface of the inner malleolus, anastomosing with a corresponding branch of the anterior tibial artery. (6) The peroneal artery (a. peroucBa, Fig. 576) is the largest branch of the posterior tibial. It arises about an inch below the lower border of the popliteus, curves outwards across the upper part of the tibialis posticus to the postero-internal border of the fibula, along which it descends to the lower part of the interosseous space, and it terminates about an inch above the ankle-joint by dividing into anterior and posterior terminal branches. As the peroneal artery passes outwards from its origin it lies behind the tibialis posticus, and is covered posteriorly by the deep intermuscular fascia and by the soleus. As it descends along the postero-internal border of the fibula it lies in a fibrous canal between the tibialis posticus in front and the flexor longus hallucis behind. The peroneal artery is accompanied by two vente comites, and is crossed in front and behind by communicating branches between them. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches are distributed to the soleus, tibialis posticus, flexor longus hallucis, and peroneal muscles. Some pass tlirougli the interosseous membrane and supply the anterior muscles of the leg. (6) A medullary branch (a. nutricia fibulre) enters the medullary foramen of the fibula. (e) A communicating branch (a. communicans) passes across the back of the lower end of the shaft of the tibia, about an inch above the inferior tibio-fibular articulation, to anastomose with the posterior tibial artery. {d) The terminal branches are: (i.) The anterior tel'minal branch or anterior peroneal artery (ramus perforans), which passes forwards between the lower border of the interosseous membrane and the interosseous inferior tibio-fibular ligament, and runs in front of the ankle to the dorsum of the foot, where it anastomoses with the external malleolar branch of the anterior tibial artery and with the tarsal branch of the dorsalis pedis ; it also supplies branches to the inferior tibio- fibular articulation, to the ankle-joint, and to the peroneus tertius. (ii.) The posterior terminal branch (ramus calcaneus lateralis), ov j)osterior peroneal artery, ■pa.B&e.s downwards behind the inferior tibio-fibular articulation and external malleolus to the outer side of the heel and the foot. It .supplies the ankle, the inferior tibio-fibular articulation, and the calcaneo-astragaloid joint, and anastomoses with the internal calcaneal branch of the -external plantar artery, and with the tarsal and metatarsal branches of the dorsalis pedis. Plantar Arteries. (7) The internal and external plantar arteries are the terminal branches of the posterior tibial artery. They arise beneath the origin of the abductor hallucis muscle, midway betv^^een the tip of the internal malleohis and the most prominent part of the inner side of the os calcis. Internal Plantar Artery (a. plantaris mediahs).—This is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the posterior tibial artery. It passes forwards along the