THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 888 ■which crosses the aorta below the superior mesenteric artery, remains as the inner portion of the left renal vein, which therefore receives the left spermatic and left suprarenal veins as ti-ibutaries. The Veins of the Limbs. Two sets of veins are developed in each limb, the superficial and the deep ; the former are the primary vessels, and as a rule they are quite apart from the limb arteries; the deep veins are secondary, and they accompany the arteries of the limb. At the peripheral extremity of each limb a venous arch is developed, which is subse- quently transformed into the digital veins. In the upper extremity the arch terminates on the ulnar (post-axial) side of the limb in a trunk which afterwards becomes the posterior ulnar, basilic, axillary, and subclavian veins. At a later period additional superficial vessels are formed, and of these a median vein which drains the palm, and a radial which commences on the radial side of the dorsum of the hand, are the most important. The radial 23asses up the preaxial border of the limb, becomes the cephalic, and for a time terminates in the primitive jugular vein ; this connexion is usually lost,^ and a new com- munication is formed with the axillary vein. The median vein ends in an anastomosing vessel between the basilic and cephalic veins at the elbow, and through which it also communicates Avith the deep veins. In the lower extremity the perijaheral venous arch terminates in a fibular or post-axial trunk, whi-ch remains in the adult as the external saphenous vein; its connexion with the sciatic vein, which was its original continuation upwards, is soon lost, and a new com- munication is formed with the popliteal vein. The internal sajAenous vein is a later development which appears on the pre-axial border of the limb, and terminates in the femoral vein. The deep veins appear as a series of anastomosing channels at the sides of the arteries. , The Pulmonary Veins. The 'pulmonary veins develop simultaneously with the lungs, and at first the veins from l9oth lungs unite to form a single trunk, which enters the left auricle posteriorly, close to the auricular septum ; subsequently the single trunk is absorbed, and two veins, one from each lung, enter the left auricle, and eventually, as the result of further absorption, two veins from each lung terminate in that cavity. MOEPHOLOGY OF THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. In conformity with the general plan of the vertebrate body, the vascular system is essentially segmental in character. This is obvious, even in the adult, in the intercostal and lumbar vessels. It is distinguishable, though less obvious, in the vessels of the head and neck and of the pelvis. The segmental arteries and veins form a series of bilaterally symmetrical vessels, each of which is united to the vessels of adjacent segments by intersegmental channels, which anastomose with one another, through the portions of the segmental vessels which thej' connect together, and thus form longitudinal trunks. The longitudinal trunks are -clearly secondary, and they are mainly, though not exclusively, intersegmental. From them the main stem vessels of the individual are formed, and from or to these latter the segmental vessels appear to proceed as branches or tributaries. In the course of development the secondary charactei' of the longitudinal tnuiks is lost sight of; they become the most imjjortant trunks in the individual, and they are formed before the segmental vessels make their apjiearance. The Segmental Arteries and their Anastomoses. The main longitudinal trunks formed by the intersegmental vessels anastomosing with each other, through the segmental arteries which they connect together, are the primitive aorta;. The descending aorta is formed, in the greater part of its extent, by the fusion of the dorsal parts of the primitive aorta;, and from it the segmental arteries arise in pairs. In a typical segment of the body of the embryo there are three segmental arteries on each side. One rises from the dorsal surface of the primitive dorsal aorta, i.e. from the dorsal longi- tudinal trunk, and runs outwards in the tissues develoj^ed from the somatic mesoderm; it is distributed to the body wall, including the spinal colunui and its contents, and is termed a somatic segmental artery. A second vessel rises from the side of the primitive dorsal aorta ; it is distributed to the structures developed from the intermediate cell mass, viz. the suprarenal 1 In certain cases it remains, and then the cephalic vein crosses the front of the clavicle and terminates in the external jugular vein.