892 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. primitive condition there was a pair in each segment of the body ; many of these disapjjear, how- ever, and the series is onlj- rej^resented in the adult by the suprarenal, the renal, and the sperm- atic or ovarian arteries—possilily, also, Ijy some of the branches of the internal iliac arteries. The splanchnic segmental arteries arise in the embryo fronx the ventral aspects of the l^rimitive dorsal aorta3, and are distributed to the walls of the alimentary canal. They anasto- mose with their fellows in front and behind in the dorsal wall of the gut; those in front of tlie uml)ilieus also communicate together on the ventral wall of the gut, whilst those btdiind the umbilicus terminate ventrally in the posterior sections of the ventral aortse. After the fusion of the dorsal longitudinal trunks to form the descending aorta, the origins of the sjjlanchnic arteries-in each segment fuse into a common stem, or either the right or left artery altogether disajjpears, whilst at a later period the majority of the sijlanchnic segmental arteries lose their direct connexion with the descending aorta; those which retain their connexion are the left bronchial arteries, the cesoj)hageal branches of the aorta, the caliac axis, and the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries, the three latter vessels greatly increasing in size. The coronary or gastric branch of the ccoliac axis, as it passes from its origin to the small curvature of the stomach, represents a right splanchnic artery; the remainder of the coi'onary artery and the pyloric branch of the hepatic are remnants of the ventral anastomoses between the splanchnic arteries in front of the umbilicus. The sjjlenic artery is a branch given off from a splanchnic artery to an organ developed in the gastric mesentery, and the hepatic is a branch from tlie ventral splanchnic anastomosis to the heijatic diverticulum from the wall of the duodenal i^ortion of the fore-gut. The superior and inferior mesenteric arteries represent at their origins splanchnic branches, and in the remainder of their extent the dorsal anastomoses on the gut wall. The Aorta, Pulmonary Artery, and other Chief Stem Vessels. The heart and the majority of the great arterial trunks of the body, including the aorta, the inhomiiuite, part of the light suljclavian, the common, external, and greater jiarts of the internal carotids, the common and internal iliacs, and the pulmonary arteries, are all modified portions either of the primitive aortse or of the aortic arches. The develojimental changes, which result in the formation of the vessels named, are described in the preceding chapter, and the morphology of these vessels is obviously the same as that of the trunks from which they are derived. It will be suflicient, therefore, to point out tliat the primitive aortte are to be regarded as the greatly enlarged pre-central or pre-vertebral longitudinal anastomoses between the successive segmental arteries of each side; obviously, therefore, each jiriniitive aorta, like the rest of the longitudinal anastomoses, consists chiefly of intersegmental elements. The origins of the segmental vessels only enter into its formation in so far as they connect the inter- segmental vessels together, and so complete the longitudinal anastomoses. The first cephalic aortic arches and the primary caudal arches are simply portions of the primitive aortfe. The other aortic arches have jjossibly a different morphological significance, but their exact nature is not definitely settled. The second, third, fourth, and fifth cejjhalic aortic arches of each side are developed in the un- divided mesoderm of the head region behind the first arch. They spring from the anterior part of the primitive aorta which, after the head fold is formed, lies on the ventral aspect of the fore-gut, and they extend at the side of the pharyngeal part of tlie fore-gut to the dorsal aorta. Thus in some respects they resemble segmental vessels. Behind the umbilicus some of the segmental siilaiichnic arteries pass from the dorsal to the ventral aorta in the splanchnic mesoderm on the wall of the alimentary canal. In addition to the vessels already mentioned, there are given oft' from the ventral aortse and the aortic arches a series of branches which su23j)ly ventral and lateral diverticula from the alimentary canal; these are represented in the adult by the superior thyroid, the tliyroidea ima, and the terminal branches of the hj-j)ogastric arteries. Iliac Arteries and their Branches.—The common iliac arteries are undoubtedly formed from the primitive aortic longitudinal vessels; they are simply those portions of the right and left in-imitive aortte respectively which lie immediately beyond or caudal to the per- manent descending aorta. The direct continuation of each is the primary caudal arcli, which forms the origin of the sujierior vesical artery, and is jJi'olonged as the hypogastric artery ; these continuous channels are for the most part made uj) of intersegmental vessels. So also are the permanent vessels into wliich they are transformed. Eefereiice has already been made to the fact that the primary caudal arch almost entirely disai)pears, and that a secondary caudal arch is developed in lieu of it (]). 878). The internal iliac arteries are almost entirelj' formed from the secondary caudal arches. The primary caudal arch, beyond doulit, is not a segmental vessel; the secondary arch may be, but this is still unpro\'ed. Tlie branches of the internal iliac artery which rejjresent offsets of the " caudal archportion of the primitive aortce are arranged in two groups—(1) a visceral set which sujjplies the walls of the hind-gut and the genital organs, and (2) a parietal set which is distributed to the body wall and to the hind-limbs. The In-aiiches distributed to the gut prob- ably represent the segmental splanchnic vessels given oft' from the dorsal longitudinal vessels ; those to the genital organs appear to corresijond with the intermediate visceral branches, for they are distributed to organs deri\-ed from the intermediate cell mass. The parietal set are to be regarded as modified somatic segmental branches of the dorsal longitudinal trunks. The lateral sacral arteries which belong to this group rein'esent, in the greater parts of their extent at least, the ]>re-costal anastomoses.