THE MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. 407 the corrugator cutis ani (a series of non-striated muscular fibres radiating from the anal opening). It rests on the edge of the levator ani, and forms the median boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa. " The transversus perinei superficialis is not always present. It consists of a more or less feeble bundle of fibres, arising from the ascending ramus of the ischium and the fascia over it, and from the base of the triangular Hgament. It is inserted into the central point of the perineum. It conceals the base of the triangular ligament, and has a variable relation to the superficial perineal vessels and nerves. The bulbo-cavernosus (ejaculator urinte) surrounds the bulb, corpus spongiosum, and root of the penis. It is sometimes separated into two parts—posterior (com- pressor bulbi), and anterior (compressor radicis penis). It arises from the central point of the perineum, and from a median raphe on the under surface of the bulb and corpus spongiosum. The muscular fibres are directed outwards and forwards, and have a triple insertion: from behind forwards, (1) into the under surface of the triangular ligament; (2) into the membrane covering the corpus spongiosum; and, (3) after encircling the corpora cavernosa, into the fascia covering the dorsum of the penis. The ischio-bulbosus, not always present, arises from the ischium, and passes obliquely inwards and forwards over the bulbo-cavernosus, to be inserted into the raphe superficial to that muscle. It belongs to the same stratum as the transversus perinei and erector penis. The compressor hemispherium bulbi is frequently absent. It consists of a thin cap-like layer of muscular fibres sur- rounding the extremity of the bulb under cover of the bulbo-cavernosus. The bulbo-caver- nosus (sphincter va- ginae) in the female is separated into lateral halves by the vaginal and urethral openings. It forms two thin layers covering the vaginal bulbs, and arises behind the vaginal orifice from the central point of the perineum. An- teriorly it is inserted into the root of the clitoris, some of its fibres embracing the corpora cavernosa so as to reach the dorsum of the clitoris. The ischio-caver- nosus (erector penis) covers the cms penis. It arises from the ischial tuberosity and the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and passing forwards, is inserted by a fascial attachment into the under surface of the crus penis, and into the outer side and dorsal aspect of the corpus cavernosum. The ischio-eavernosus (erector olitoridis) in the female has a similar disposition, but is of much smaller size than in the male. Transversus PERINEI Levator ani Gluteus MAXIMUS Fia. 301.- Sphinoter ani extern us -The Muscles op the Female Perineum (after Peter Thompson).