THE ANAL CANAL. 1045 modified skin of its lower zone passes into the ordinary skin. A little way outside the orifice, hairs, sebaceous glands, and large modified sweat-glands (glandulae circumanales) appear. Action of the Sphincters.—In connection with the anal canal are found three muscles— namely, tlie paired levatores ani, the external sphincter, and the internal sphincter—the action of wliich should be liriefly referred to here. Levator Ani.—The fibres of the levator wliicli arise from the pubis (ijubo-coccygeus or sjjhincter recti portion) pass backwards on each side of the beginning of the anal canal, and, in great part, meet behind the passage. These two muscular bands—which are but a little distance apart at their origin, and are actually united behind the bowel — are closely approximated during the contraction of the muscles, like the limbs of a clamp), and, pressing on the sides of the anal canal, they assist in closing the upper part of that j^assage, whilst at the same time drawing it slightly towards the pubes. There is little doubt that the levator ani in this way acts as one of the chief sphinctei's of the bowel; and it should be noticed that it is jjlaced where its action would be most effective, namely, ojDpiosite the point at which the rectum is narrowed or " jjinched in " to form the anal canal. In addition to its sphincter action the muscle suj^ports the expanded Ijowel immediately above the anal canal, and in this way sustains the weight of the faces when the rectum is distended. It is probably relaxed during defaecation, except perhajis at the com- pletion of the act. The muscle is under the control of the will. The external sphincter forms a muscular cylinder around the lower two-thirds of the anal canal, with (except in the case of some of its inner fibres) an anterior and a piosterior attachment. When the muscle contracts, its fibres are tightly stretched between its two attachments, and the space between them is reduced to a narrow antero-posterior slit. By this action the anal canal is flattened from side to side and closed, so that, whilst the levator ani is the sj)hincter of the upper ajaerture of the anal canal, the external sphincter closes its lower and greater part. It is under the control of the will, but under ordinary circumstances it is in a state of tonic contraction. The internal sphincter is merely a thickening of the circular muscular coat at the lower end of the bowel. It is continuous with the circular fibres of the gut, not only in structure, but jji'obably also in action, its chief use being to emp>ty the anal canal completely, after the passage of each faecal mass. Owing to the fact that the canal is an antero-posterior slit, not a circular orifice, and that the internal sphincter forms a muscular ring around it, acting alone, it is scarcely competent to keep the sides of the canal in a^jposition, and probably it acts rather as a detrusor than a true sphincter of the anal passage. Vessels.—The rectum and anal canal receive their blood supp)ly from three chief sources, namely, the three hcemorrhoidal arteries ; to these another less important, though constant, source may be added—the middle sacral artery. 1. The superior haemorrhoidal, the principal artery of the rectum, is the prolongation of the inferior mesenteric trunk (Fig. 566, p. 795). At first it descends in the root of the pelvic meso- colon until the rectum is reached. Here it divides into two chief branches which run downwards and forwards around the sides of the rectum—the right, usually the larger, lying more Ijehind, the left more to the front, and the two, as it were, embracing the bowel between them (Fig. 701). From these two arteries come off secondary branches (about five to eight in all), which pierce the muscular coat about the middle of the rectum, and then descend in the submucosa as a series of longitudinally-running " terminal branches " as far as the anal valves, above the level of which one is usually found beneath each column of Morgagni. These terminal branches give oft' numerous twigs in their course, which form a haemorrhoidal plexus in the submucosa by anastomosing with one another, and also with branches of the middle, and, in the lower part of the bowel, of the inferior luemorrhoidal artery. 2. The middle haemorrhoidal arteries, two in number—one on each side—are usually Ijranches of the anterior division of the internal iliacs; they run down on the side wall of the lower part of the rectum, and after giving off branches to the bladder, seminal vesicles, prostate (or vagina, according to the sex), each breaks up into four or five small branches, some of which supply the muscular wall of the lower part of the rectum, whilst the others pierce the muscular coat near the upper end of the anal canal, and join in the submucosa with the plexus formed by the superior hosmorrhoidal artery already described. 3. The inferior haemorrhoidal arteries, generally two or three in number on each side, arise at variable levels from the internal pudic arteries, whilst these latter are situated on the outer side of the ischio-rectal fossai. They pass inwards and downwards through the fat in the fossae, and, near the wall of the anal canal, break up into branches, some of which are distri- buted to the levatores ani and the sphincters, whilst others pierce the sphincters and break wp in the submucosa into a close network which supplies the lower part of the anal canal, and com- municates above with the plexus formed by the superior and middle haemorrhoidal arteries. The inferior haemorrhoidal ai'tery is distributed chiefly on the back, and the middle haemorrhoidal chiefly on the front of the lower part of the l)owel. 4. One or more small branches of the middle sacral artery reach the back of the rectum, where they are distributed <;liiefly, if not solely, to the muscular coat. Anastomosis of the Haemorrhoidal Arteries.—The superior and middle haemorrhoidal arteries anastomose freely, not only in the liajmorrlioidal plexus of the submucosa, but also, as a rule, by a few large branches on the exteiior of the bowel: some perforating branches of the middle sacral also join the plexus in the suljmucoris layer at the lower part of the rectum, as do numerous small branches from the inferior haemorrhoidal arteries which pierce the sphincters. In addition.