715 OSSEOUS LABYRINTH. membranous labyrinth (labyrinthus membranaceus). These chaunels are named the ductus cochlearis, utricle, saccule, and membranous semicircular canals; the utricle and saccule are lodged within tlie bony vestibule. OSSEOUS LABYEINTH. Vestibule.—The vestil)ule forms the central portion of the osseous labyrinth, and communicates behind with the semicircular canals and in front with the cochlea. It is somewhat ovoid in shape, its long axis being directed forwards and outwards. It measures about 6 mm. antero-posteriorly, 4-5 mm. from roof to floor, and about 3 mm. from without inwards. Its outer wall is directed towards the tympanic cavity, and in it is seen the fenestra ovalis, which, in the recent state, is closed by the foot of the stapes. Its inner wall corresponds with the bottom of the internal auditory meatus and presents, at its antero-inferior part, a rounded depression, the recessus sphsericus, which lodges the saccule. This recess is perforated by some twelve or fifteen small foramina, which constitute the macula cribrosa media and transmit the filaments of the auditory nerve for the supply of the saccule. The recessus sphaericus is limited above and behind by an oblique ridge, the crista vestibuli, the anterior extremity of wliich is triangular in shape and named the pyramid (pyramis vestibuli). Posteriorly, this crista divides into two limbs, between which is a small depression, the recessus cochlearis of Eeichert, perforated by some eight small fora- mina, which give passage to the nervous filaments for the supply of the posterior extremity of the ductus cochlearis. Above and behind the crista vestibuli, in the roof and inner wall of the vestibule, is an oval depression, the recessus ellipticus, which lodges the utricle. The pyramid and adjacent part of the recessus ellipticus are perforated by some 25 - 30 small apertures, which constitute the macula cribrosa superior seu major. The foramina in the pyramid transmit the nerves to the utricle; those in the recessus, the nerves to the ampullary ends of the superior and external semicircular canals. Behind and below the recessus ellipticus is a furrow, gradually deepening ito form a canal, the actueductus vestibuli, which passes backwax'ds through the petrous bone and opens, as a slit-like fissure, about midway between the internal auditory meatus and the groove for the lateral sinus. This aqueduct measures 8-10 mm. in length and gives passage to the ductus endo- lymphaticus and a small vein. The posterior part of the vestibule receives the five rounded apertures of the bony semicircular canals; its anterior part leads, by an elliptical opening, into the scala vestibuli of the cochlea. This opening is bounded inferiorly by a thin osseous lamella, the lamina spiralis ossea, which springs from the floor of the vestibule immediately to the outer side of the recessus sphsericus, and forms, in the cochlea, the bony part of the septum between the scala tympani below and the scala vestibuli above. From the anterior part of the floor of the vestibule a narrow cleft, the fissura vestibuli, extends forwards into the bony canal of the cochlea. It is bounded internally by the lamina spiralis ossea, just referred to, and externally by a second, smaller lamina, the lamina spiralis secundaria, which projects inwards from the outer wall of the cochlea. These two lamina are continuous with each other around the posterior extremity of the fissure. Semicircular Canals (canales semicirculares ossei).—The semicircular canals (Figs. 521, 522), three in number, are situated above and behind the vestibule. They are distinguished from each other by their position, and ai'e named superior, posterior, and external. They open into the vestibule by five apertures, since the inner extremity of the superior and the upper extremity of the posterior join to form a common canal or crus commune. Differing slightly in length, each forms about two-thirds of a circle, one extremity of which is dilated and termed the ampulla (ampulla ossea). Somewhat compressed laterally, their greatest internal diameter is from 1 to 1-5 mm., whilst the diameter of the ampulla is about 2 mm. The superior semicircular canal (canalis semicircularis superior), 15-20 mm. in length, is vertical and placed transversely to the long axis of the petrous bone. Its convexity is directed upwards, and its position is indicated on the anterior sur- face of the petrous-temporal by an eminence. Its ampullated end (ampulla ossea