763 BEANCHES OF THE EXTEENAL CAEOTID AETEEY. behind the mastoid process. They enter the posterior fossa of the skull through the anterior condyloid foramen, or through the foramen lacerum jjosterius ; they supply the upper part of the internal jugular vein, the lateral sinus, and the dura mater in the posterior fossa of the skull, and they anastomose with the middle meningeal and with meningeal branches of the ascending pharyngeal artery. (c) The mastoid, a small and irregular branch (ramus mastoideus) given oflf from the occipital behind the mastoid process. It enters the posterior fossa of the skull through the mastoid foramen, supplies the dura mater, and anastomoses with branches of the middle meningeal artery. (d) The princeps cervicis (ramus descendens) is a large branch given off from the occipital upon the surface of the superior oblique. It passes inwards to the outer border of the complexus, where it divides into superficial and deep branches. The superficial branch runs over the complexus, between it and the trapezius, and anastomoses with the superficial cervical artery. The deep branch dips beneath the complexus into the sub- occipital triangle, where it anastomoses with branches of the A'ertebral and profunda cervicis arteries. (e) The auricular (ramus auricularis) is an inconstant branch which, as a rule, is only given otf from the occipital when the posterior auricular artery is absent. It ramifies over the mastoid process, and supplies the inner surface of the pinna. (/') The terminal branches (rami occipitales) are internal and external. They ramify in the superficial fascia of the posterior part of the scalp, anastomosing with the posterior auricular and superficial temporal arteries. They are both accom^aanied by branches of the great occipital nerve, and the internal branch gives off a parietal twig, which passes into the skull through the parietal foramen to supply the walls of the superior longitudinal sinus, and to anastomose with the middle meningeal artery. (5) Posterior Auricular Artery (a. auricularis posterior, Figs. 554, 555).—The posterior auricular artery springs from the back of the external carotid, im- mediately above the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, aud terminates between the mastoid process and the back of the pinna by dividing into mastoid and auricular branches. Course and relations.—Commencing in the posterior part of the submaxil- lary triangle, it runs upwards and backwards, under cover of the posterior part of the parotid gland, to the interval between the mastoid process and the external aiiditory meatus. It is accompanied in the terminal part of its course by the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches are given to the sterno-mastoid, the digastric, and the styloid group of muscles. (b) Parotid branches pass to the lower and posterior part of the parotid gland. (c) A stylo-mastoid branch (a. stylomastoidea) is given off at the lower border of the external auditory meatus. It runs upwards by the side of the facial nerve, enters the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends, in the aqueduct of Fallopius, to the upper part of the inner wall of the tympanum where it terminates by anastomosing with the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery. It supplies branches to the external auditory meatus, the mastoid cells, the vestibule, and semicircular canals, the stapedius muscle, and the tympanic cavity (a. tympanica posterior). One of the latter branches, anastomosing with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillai-y, forms, in young subjects, a vascular circle round the membrana tympani; other branches anastomose with tympanic branches from the internal carotid and the ascending pharyngeal arteries, and with the auditory branch of the basilar. (d) The auricular, or anterior terminal branch (ramus auricularis), ascends beneath the retrahens aurem muscle. It gives branches to the scalp in the posterior part of the temporal region, which anastomose with the superficial temporal and occipital arteries, and to the pinna. The latter branches supply both surfaces of the pinna, piei-cing or turning round the margins of the cartilage to gain the outer surface, and they anasto- mose with the auricular branches of the superficial temporal artery. (e) The mastoid, or posterior terminal branch (ramus occipitalis), runs upwards and backwards along the insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It supplies the sterno- mastoid, the occipito - frontalis, and the skin, and it anastomoses with the occipital artery. (6) Ascending Pharyngeal Artery (a. pharyngea ascendens, Fig. 556).—This