THE LYMPH VASOULAE SYSTEM. 859 the right pancreatico-gastric fold of peritoneum, passes behind the neck of tlie pancreas, and ends in tlie superior mesenteric vein. The pancreatico-duodenal vein receives tributaries (vv. laancreatico-duodenalis) from the head of the pancreas and tlie adjacent parts of the duodenum ; it ascends along the superior pancreatico- duodenal artery, and terminates in the upper part of the superior mesenteric vein. The splenic vein (v. lienalis) is formed by the union of five or six tributaries wliich issue fi'om the hilus on tlie anterior surface of the spleen. It passes backwards and inwards in the lieno-renal ligament to the kidney, then turning to the right it runs behind the upper border of the pancreas and below the splenic artery; it crosses the front of the abdominal aorta, immediately below the origin of the coeliac axis, and terminates behind the neck of the pancreas, by joining the superior mesenteric vein to form the portal vein. Tributaries. — It receives the vasa hrevia or gastric veins, the left gastro-epiploic vein, the pancreatic veins, and the inferior mesenteric vein. Occasionally the coronary vein ter- minates in it. The vasa brevia or gastric veins (vv. gastricae breves) are a series of small venous channels which gather blood from the region of the left portion of the great curvature of the stomach ; they pass backwards towards the spleen in the gastro-splenic omentum, and terminate either in the trunk of the splenic vein or in one of its main tributaries. Tlie left gastro-epiploic vein runs from right to left along the lower border of the stomach between tlie layers of the great omentum. At the left extremity of the stomach it enters the gastro-sj^lenic omentum, through which it passes towards the hilus of the spleen, and it terminates in the commencement of the splenic vein. It receives tributaries from both surfaces of the stomach. The pancreatic veins issue from the substance of the jjancreas, and terminate directly in the splenic vein. The inferior mesenteric vein (v. mesenterica inferior) commences, as the superior hajmor- rhoidal vein, in the venous plexus wliich lies between the muscular and mucous coats of the rectum. The superior hEemorrhoidal vein (v. hEemorrhoidalis sujaerior) drains the greater part of the blood from the luemorrlioidal plexus, through which it communicates with the middle and inferior hajmorrlioidal veins. It ascends in company with the superior hemorrhoidal artery, and between the layers of the meso-rectum, to the brim of the pelvis, where it passes in front of the left couanon iliac artery and becomes the inferior mesenteric vein. The inferior mesenteric vein runs upwards on the left of the aorta, behind the peritoneum, and in front of the left psoas muscle and the left spermatic artery. Near its termination it crosses in front of the left renal vein, and, passing behind the body of the j)ancreas, ends in the splenic vein. Occasionally it terminates in the angle of union of the superior mesenteric and splenic veins. Tributaries.—In addition to the superior liiBuiorrhoidal vein, of which it is the direct con- tinuation, the inferior mesenteric vein receives sigmoid tributaries (vv. sigmoideae) from the iliac and pelvic colon, and the left colic vein from tlie descending colon and splenic flexure. THE LYMPH VASCULAR SYSTEM. The vessels of the lymph vascular system (vasa lymphatica) contain a colourless fluid, rich in white corpuscles, called lymph. In many respects they reseml)le blood- vessels, especially the veins; l)ut unlike veins they communicate with intercellular spaces and with serous sacs, and their continuity is interrupted by interposed nodular aggregations of lymph tissue which are known as lymph glands (lymphoglandulte). Lymph is collected in intercellular spaces from which lymph capillaries arise; the latter terminate in lymphatic vessels, which unite togetlier, forming larger vessels; and ultimately two terminal trunks—viz. the thoracic duct and the right lymphatic duct—open into tlie venous system, at the commencement respectively of the left and right innominate veins. There are no outgoing vessels, but it is customary to speak of afferent (vasa afferentia) and efferent (vasa efferentia) lymphatics with reference to vessels which enter or leave the interposed glands. Lymph vessels, and the"" spaces in which they commence, merely collect and convey lymph. The lymphatic glands act, in part at least, as filters, and possibly also some of the white corpuscles are formed in them. The greater part, if not the whole, of the lymph of the body passes through one or more of the lymph glands before it reaches the blood vascular system. Lymphatic spaces.—Lymph spaces are simply intervals or clefts in connective