937 THE LUNGS. Clavicle e.rratus nmgmis Siipra-spiuatus the right lung the hilus is also circumscribed above by a curved groove, but this is uarrow and more distinctly curved than the aortic groove on the left side. It lodges the vena azygos major as it turns forwards to join the superior vena cava. From the anterior end of the azygos sulcus a wide shallow groove extends upwards to the lower part of the front of the apex pulmonis. This is produced by the apposition of the lung with the vena cava superior and the right innominate vein. Close to the summit of the apex there is also, on its inner aspect, a sulcus for the upper end of the innominate artery. In addition to the hilus, it must now be evident that the inner surface of each lung presents three areas which correspond respectively with (1) the middle mediastinum (i.e. the pericardial hollow); (2) the posterior mediastinum ; and (3) the superior mediastinum; and that in each of these districts impressions correspond- ing to structures contained within these portions of the interpleural space may be noticed. The posterior border of the lung is thick, long, and rounded. It foriiis the most bulky part of the organ, and occupies the deep hollow in the thoracic cavity which is placed on either side of the spine. Indeed the term "border" is somewhat in- appropriate, as it forms in reality a somewhat extensive surface deeply impressed l)y the ribs, and not in any way marked off from the outer surface of the lung. The anterior border of the lung is short and exceedingly thin and sharp. It begins abruptly above, immediately below the groove on the apex for the innomi- nate vein, and extends down to the base, where it becomes continuous with the sharp basal border. The Oiuo-hyoidy thin anterior part of the lung is carried forwards and inwards in front of the pericardium into the narrow pleural recess behind the sternum and costal cartilages (sinus costo-mediastinalis). The anterior border of the right lung fills up this recess completely, and in the upper part of the chest is only separ- ated from the correspond- ing border of the left lung by the two layers of mediastinal pleura which are reflected back- wards from the sternum to the pericardium. The anterior border of the left lung, in its lower part, shows a marked deficiency or notch (in- cisura cardiaca) corre- sponding to the apex of the heart, and where this exists the lung margin leaves a considerable por- tion of the pericardium uncovered, and fails to completely fill up the costo-mediastinal sinus of the pleural cavity. During respiration the anterior margin of the left lung at the incisura cardiaca advances and retreats to a small extent in this pleural sinus in front of the pericardium. Scalenus medms Brac^liial nerves Subclavius Snbclavijan artery Subclavian vein Fig. 635.—Sagittal Section through the Left Shoulder, Lung, and Apex op the Heakt.