775 VEKTEBKAL AKTEEY. ing twigs from the spinal branches of the vertebral, intercostal, and lumbar arteries. It gives oft' branches which pierce the pia mater and supply the cord, and it unites below with the posterior spinal arteries. (4) The posterior inferior cerebellar (a. cerebelli inferior posterior) is the largest branch of the vertebral artery. It arises a short distance below the pons and passes obliquely backwards round the medulla, at first between the roots of the hypoglossal nerve, and then between the roots of the spinal accessory and vagus nerves, into the vallecula of the cerebellum, where it divides into external and internal terminal branches. The trunk of the artery gives branches to the medulla and to the chorioid plexus of the fourth ventricle. The internal terminal, or vermiform branch, runs backwards between the inferior vermiform process and the lateral lobe of the cerebellum ; it supplies principally the former structure, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side. The external or hemispheric branch passes outwards on the lower surface of the hemisphere and anastomoses with the superior cerebellar artery. Basilar Artery (a. basilaris).—This artery is formed by the junction of the two vertebral arteries; it commences at the lower border and terminates at the upper border of the pons Varolii, bifurcating at its termination into the two posterior cerebral arteries. Course and Relations.—It rims upwards in a shallow groove on the front of the pons Varolii, behind the sphenoidal section of the basi-cranial axis and between the sixth nerves. Branches.—(1) The transverse, a series of small arteries wliich pass round the sides of the pons, supplying it (rami ad pontem), the middle peduncles of the cerebellum, and the roots of the fifth cranial nerve. (2) The auditory (a. auditiva interna), a pair of long but slender branches which accompany the eighth cranial nerves. Each enters the corresponding internal auditory meatus with the seventh and eighth nerves, and, passing through the lamina cribrosa, is distributed to the internal ear. (3) The anterior inferior cerebellar (a. cerebelli inferior anterior), two branches which arise, one on eacli side, from the middle of the basilar artery. They pass backwards on the lower surfaces of the lateral lobes of the cerebellum, and anastomose with the posterior inferior cerebellar branches of the vertebral arteries. (4) The superior cerebellar (aa. cerebelli superiores) branches, two in number, arise near the termination of the basilar. Each passes outwards at the upper border of the pons, directly below the third nerve of the same side, and turning round the outer side of the crus cerebri below the fourth nerve, reaches the' upper surface of the cerebellum, where it divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch supplies the upper surface of the vermiform process and the valve of Vieussens. The external branch is distributed over the upper surface of the lateral hemisphere, anastomosing at its margin with the inferior cerebellar arteries. (5) Posterior Cerebral Arteries (aa. cerebri posteriores, Figs. 557 and 559).— These are the two terminal branches of the basilar. They run backwards and upwards, between the crura cerebri and the uncinate convolutions and parallel to the superior cerebellar arteries, from which they are separated by the third and fourth cranial nerves. Each posterior cerebral artery is connected with the internal carotid by the posterior communicating artery; it gives branches to the tentorial surface of the cerebrum, and is continued backwards, beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum, to the calcarine fissure, where it divides into calcarine and parieto-occipital branches, which pass to the outer surface of the occipital lobe and supply the inner and tentorial surfaces of the occipital lobe and the posterior part of its outer surface. Branches.—(A) Central or <ianf/lioyiic.—This group includes («i) A postero-mesial set of small vessels which pass on the inner side of tlae crus cerebri to tlie posterior perforated space. They supply the crus, the posterior part of the optic thalamus, the corpora albicantia, and the walls of the third ventricle: {d^) A postero-lateral set of small vessels which pass round the outer side of the crus cerebri. They supply the corpora quadrigemina, the brachia, the crus, the posterior part of the optic thalamus, and the corpora geniculata. {<t^) A posterior chorioidal set of small branches which pass through the upper part of