THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 1223 umbilical, and hypogastric regions may 1 le further divided into right and left halves l;ty the median plane. The xiphisternal junction is on a level with the disc Ijetween tire ninth and tenth dorsal vertebrie. The infracostal plane passes through the upper part of the third luml)ar vertebra ; the intertubercular plane through the fifth lumbar vertebra, about 1 in. above the sacral promontory. The umbilicus is usually situated from 1 to 2 in. above the intertul)ercular line. In the method of surface topography employed l)y Addison the ])lane of separa- tion between the superior and middle al idominal zones is placed midway between the suprasternal notch and. the upper Ijorder of the puljic symphysis. It will l)e found to lie at or near the mid-point Ijetween the xiphisternal junction and the umbilicus. Posteriorly, this Y'lane strikes the lower border of the first lumljar vertebra, and it so constantly passes through the pylorus that it may with advantage be termed the transpyloric plane. The peritoneal cavity may he regarded as a large and complicated lymph sac which is intimately related to the abdominal viscera, and more especially to the gastro-intestinal canal. Inflammatory infections of the peritoneum are therefore almost always secondary to lesions of the viscera. The peritoneal lymph sac is lirought into direct communication with the subperitoneal lymphatics of the diaphragm through stomata which open upon the peritoneum co^•ering the under surface of that muscle. The healthy peritoneum, in virtue of the vital action of its endo- thelial cells, is endowed with great absorptive properties, and, when irritated, has the power of throwing out an abundant exudation. The reflexion of the peritoneum and its relations to the various organs have been elsewhere fully descriljed (p. 1046). From the surgical point of view the peritoneal cavity may lie arliitrarily divided into four great subdivisions: viz. (1) that between the trans\'erse meso- colon a,nd the diaphragm: (2) that between the transverse mesocolon and the mesentery of the small intestine; (3) that Ijetween the mesentery and the triie pelvis; (4) that in the true pelvis. The lesser sac of the peritoneum may be looked upon as a diverticulum of the first-mentioned subdivision. The attachment of the transverse mesocolon to the posterior aljdominal wall is at the level of the second lumljar verteljra, and lies, theretbre, a little aljcjve the .infracostal plane. The attachment, which ascends slightly as it passes from right to.left, crosses the right kidney, the second part of the duodenum, and the head of the pancreas, after which its attachment follows the anterior border of the pancreas. The peritoneal subdivision above this attachment is roofed in by the diaphragm, and includes the upper part of the greater sac, and. liehind it, the larger portion of the lesser sac. The organs related to this area of the peritoneum are the liver, along with the bile ducts and gall-ljladder, the stomach and part of the. duodenum, the spleen, the pancreas, the upper part of the kidneys, and the suprarenal capsules. Suppuration connected with any of these organs is liable to spread upwards under the cupola of the diaphragm, producing what is known as subjihrenic abscess. The routes followed to drain this regi()n of the peritoneal cavity are either (1) through tlie anterior abdominal w"all and the gastro-hepatic or gastro-colic omenta; (2_) through the loins below the twelfth ribs; (3j through the chest wall, the lower part of the pleural cavity, and the diaphragm, steps having been preAdously taken to shut off the drainage-track from the pleural cavity. This suljdiA'ision of the peritoneal cavity may become shut off from the rest of the space by adhesion of the great omentum to the peritoneum of tlie anterior abdominal wall. The attachment of the mesentery of the small intestine extends from the left side of the second lumljar vertebra downwards to tlie right iliac fossa (Fig. 675 p. 1001). The attachment may be mapped out on the surface by drawing a line from a point on the transpyloric line, one inch to the left of the middle line, t(j the mid-point of a line drawn horizontally between the right anterior superior iliac spine and the middle line. The subdivision beticcen the transverse mcsocokut and tlic mesenterij pro^'er is related more particularly to the small intestine, the crecum and vermiform appendix, the ascending colon, the right ureter, and part of the right kidney. Suppuration in connexion with the organs in this area involves