OSTEOLOGY. 86 ISTot infrequently there is a slight lateral curvature in the dorsal region, the convexity of the curve being usually directed towards the right side. This may be associated with a greater use of the muscles of the right upper limb, or may depend on the pressure exercised by the upper part of the thoracic aorta on the vertebrae of the dorsal region, thus causing a slight lateral displacement. Abo^'e and below this curve there are slight compensatory curves in the opposite direction. , The line which unites the tips of the spines is not a repetition of the curves formed by the bodies. This is due to the fact that the length and direction of the spines vary much in different regions; thus in the neck, with the ex- ception of the second, sixth, and seventh, the spines are all short (absent in the case of the atlas). In the thoracic region the .spines, though long, are obliquely placed—a circumstance wliich much reduces their prominence; that of the seventh thoracic vertebra is usually the longest and most slanting. Below this point the length of the spines gradually decreases, and tlieir position more nearly approaches the horizontal. In the loins, the spines have all a slight downward direction. Taken as a wliole, the spines of the movable vertebrte in man haA'e a downward indination—a character which lie sliares with the anthrojjoid ajjes, and a few other animals. This character serves to distinguish his column from those of lower mammals in which the spines of the lumbar vertebrne are directed headwards towards the " centre of moticm," which is usually situated near the hinder ex- tremity of the thorax, where a vertebra is placed the direction of whose spine is vertical; this vertebra is often referred to as the anticlinal vertebra. The spines of the upper three or four sacral vertebraj form an osseous ridge with interrupted tul:)ercles. The ridge formed by the vertebral spines is an important determinant of the surface form, as it corresponds to the median furrow of the back, and here the individual spines may be felt and counted from the seventh cervical down to the sacral region. This is best done when the back is well bent forwards. As viewed from the front, the vertebral bodies increase in width from the second cervical to the first thoracic; thence a reduction in breadth takes place to the level of the fourth thoracic, below which there is a gradual increase in their transverse diameters until the sacrum is reached. Here a rapid reduction in width takes place, terminating inferiorly in the nodules of the coccyx. Tlie transverse processes of the atlas are wide and out- standing. The succeeding four cervical vertebrae have transverse processes of nearly equal width; the seventh, however, displays a marked increase in its transverse I diameter, and is about equal in widtli to the first thoracic vertebra. Below this a gradual and regular diminution in widtli characterises the transverse processes of the thoracic vertebrae, until in the case of the eleventh and twelfth they are merely represented by the small external tubercles. In tlie lumbar region the transverse processes again appear Fio.66.-VERTEDHALCoLUMx"^it«tandiiig, and of nearly equal length. AS SEEN FROM BEHIND. Tlic tiausversc diameter of the lateral mass of tlie nrst sacral vertebra forms the widest part of the column. Below this a decrease in width occurs until the level of the third sacral segment is reached, at which point the transverse diameter is somewhat abruptly diminished, a reduction ill width which is further suddenly accentuated opposite the fifth sacral segment.