568 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. posterior and anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves, presents primarily and essentially a segmental arrangement, masked and in some cases obliterated by develop- mental changes which have occurred in the parts supplied. In no region can a single nerve be traced to a complete segment. In the trunk between the limbs the nearest approach to a complete girdle is formed by such a nerve as the sixth thoracic nerve. In its cutaneous disti'ibution it forms a perfect belt, the nerve by its posterior and anterior primary divisions supplying a distinctly segmental area from the middle line of the trunk behind to the sternum in front. Its muscular distribution, also, is almost perfectly segmental. The anterior primary division supplies, unaided, the intercostal muscles of the segment in which it lies. The posterior primary division supplies muscles in the back, not, however, in a strictly segmental manner, on account of the fact that the segmental myotomes have fused together in the back to give rise to complex longitudinal muscles, which are together supplied by the seiies of -miiscular branches derived from these posterior j^rimary divisions. In other regions greater changes cause more marked deviations from a simple segmental typo of distribution and give rise to the various plexuses, by which the trunk, and more particularly the limbs, are innervated. POSTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. The posterior primary divisions of tlie spinal nerves are distributed generally to the skill of the back of the trunk, the back of the head, the shoulder and the buttock, and to the longitudinal muscles of the back, but not to the muscles of the limbs. Each posterior primary division divides as a rule into two parts, an internal and an external trunk (Fig. 4:^1, p. 567). In the upper half of the body the internal trunks generally supply the cutaneous branches, while the external trunks are purely muscular nerves. In the lower part of the body the opposite is the case: the external trunks provide the cutaneous nerves and the internal trunks are distributed entirely to muscles. The cutaneous branches have a different course in the two cases. In the upper half of the back they course inwards and back- wards beneath and among the muscles to within a short distance of the spinous processes of the vertebne, close to which they become superficial. Tiiey then extend outwards in the superficial fascia. In the lower half of the back the cutaneous nerves are directed downwards and outwards among the muscles, and become superficial at a greater distance from the middle line. C'EEVICAL NERVES. First Cervical Nerve (n. suboccipitalis).—It has already been pointed out that the dorsal root of this nerve may be rudimentary, or even absent altogether. Its posterior primary division is larger than the anterior primary division; it does not divide into internal or external branches, and does not supply directly any cutaneous branch. Passing backwards in the space between the occipital bone and the posterior arcli of the atlas, the nerve occupies the suboccipital triangle, and is placed below and beliind the vertebral artery under cover of the complexus muscle. It supplies the following branches :— (a) Muscular branches to the complexus, recti capitis postici, major and minor, and oblifpii, superior and inferior. (c) A communicating branch descends to join the second cervical nerve. The conniuuiicating branch may arise in common with the nerve to the ohliquus inferior, and reach the second cervical nerve by ])iei'cing or passing over or beneath the obliquus inferior. Or it may accompany the nerve to the coinjilexu.s, and connnnnicate with the great occijiital nerve, alter piercing that muscle. Second Cervical Nerve.—Tlie posterior primary division of this nerve is larger than the corresponding anterior primary division. It passes backwards in the interval between the atlas and axis, and below the obliquus inferior muscle.