613 THE PUDENDAL TLEXUS. The internal branch passes forwards to the interval between the fourth and fifth toes, where it becomes cutaneous, and divides into two plantar digital branches for the supply of the adjacent sides of these toes. It communicates with the fourth terminal branch of the internal plantar nerve. The deep branch (r. profundus) of the external plantar nerve, passing deeply along with the external plantar artery, extends inwards towards the great toe, beneath the accessorius and adductor obliquus hallucis. It gives off articular branches to the tarsal and tarso-metatarsal articulations, and muscular hraiiches to the interossei of each space (except in some cases the muscles of the iburth space) : the adductor obliquus and adductor transversus hallucis, and the outer three lumbrical muscles. These nerves enter the deep surface of the muscles, that to the second lumbrical reaching its muscle after passing forwards beneath the adductor transversus hallucis. THE PUDENDAL PLEXUS. The pudendal plexus constitutes the third and last subdivision of the lumbo- sacral plexus. It is composed for the most part of the spinal nerves below those which form the sacral plexus ; but, as already stated, there is no distinct point of separation between the two plexuses. On the contrary, there is considerable over- lapping, so that two and sometimes three of the principal nerves derived from the pudendal plexus have their origin in common with nerves of the sacral plexus. The plexus is formed by fibres from the anterior primary divisions of the first three sacral nerves, and by the whole of the anterior primary divisions of the fourth and fifth sacral and coccygeal nerves. The size of the nerves diminishes rapidly from the first sacral to the coccygeal, which is extremely slender. Position and Constitution.—The plexus is formed on the back wall of the pelvis. Of the nerves forming it, the upper ones emerge from the anterior sacral foramina ; the fifth sacral nerve appears between the last sacral and first coccygeal vertebra ; and the coccygeal nerve appears below the transverse process of that vertebra. The nerves of distribution derived from the plexus are the following:— 1. Visceral branches. 4. Pudic nerve. 2. Small sciatic nerve. 5. Muscular branches. 3. Perforating cutaneous nerve. 6. Sacro-coccygeal nerve. Omitting the visceral branch, all the nerves are distributed to the perineum. Only two, the small sciatic and perforating cutaneous nerves, send branches to the lower limb. Visceral Branches.—Like the other spinal nerves, the fourth and fifth sacral and coccygeal nerves are provided with fine gray rami communicantes from the sacral gangliated cord, which joins them after a short course on the front of the sacrum. The third (along with the second or fourth) sacral nerve in addition sends a considerable lohite ramus communicans or visceral branch inwards to the pelvic plexus and viscera. Small Sciatic Nerve (n. cutaneus femoris posterior).—This nerve is complex both in origin and distribution (Eig. 446, p. 614). Springing from the junction of the sacral and pudendal plexuses, it is derived from the first three sacral nerves. It is distributed to both the lower limb and perineum, and is associated with other nerves belonging to both regions. It arises from the back of the roots of the sacral plexus in the pelvis. Its higher roots from the first and second sacral nerves are intimately associated with the origin of the inferior gluteal nerve ; its lowest root from the third sacral nerve is associated with the origins of the perforating cutaneous or pudic nerve. It enters the buttock through the great sciatic notch below the pyriformis, along with the sciatic artery and inferior gluteal nerve. Proceeding downwards behind the great sciatic nerve, it enters the thigh at the lower border of the gluteus maximus muscle, where it gives off considerable branches. Becoming gradually smaller as it courses downwards over the hamstring muscles to the popliteal space, it finally pierces the popliteal fascia in one or more cutaneous branches, which supply the skin over the cali' of the leg for a variable distance (Fig. 444, p. 611).