CEEEBKOSPINAL NEKVOUS SYSTEM. 417 anastomosis between the dendrites of neighbouring cells, or between the dendrites of the same cell. It would appear, therefore, that nothing in the shape of a net- work is formed by these processes. In the chapter upon Embryology it has been shown that in the early condition of the cerebrospinal axis the brain and cord consist simply of a thin-walled tube (p. 20). The wall of this tube is formed of a single layer of tall columnar neuro- epithelial cells, and in its deepest or most internal part large round cells make their appearance in the intervals between the epithelial columns. These new cells are termed the germinal cells, and from them the nerve-cells are derived. They are MID-DORSAL LAMINA out ; d and e, Further develop- Fio. 309.—Transverse Section through the early Neural ment of the dendrites and ap- TuBE, diagrammatically represented (Alfred H. Young). pearance of collateral branches The left side of the section exhibits an earlier stage of on the axon, develoiiment than the right side. present in considerable numbers, and towards the fourth week of embryonic life they form an almost continuous layer. Although these cells ultimately become nerve-cells they are absolutely without processes in their early state, and therefore at this period, although there is a nervous system, there are, as His remarks, no nerves. In course of time, and as the wall of the neural tube thickens, the germinal cells begin to migrate in an outward direction. They leave the deep part of the wall of the neural tube and proceed to take up the positions they occupy in the gray matter of the cord and brain of the adult. These migrating cells assume a pyriforni shape, and are termed neuroblasts. The drawn-out portion or stalk of the pear-shaped neuroblast represents the early axon, and this continues to grow and increase in length until it ultimately attains the terminal relations characteristic of the adult. The study of embryology presents few more remark- able phenomena than the manner in which this axon grows out, and, in the efferent nerve-fibres, emerges from the central axis, and yet pursues its allotted path with the most unerring exactitude and precision until it ultimately reaches the nerve-cell or the peripheral tissue element with which it becomes associated. The growing point of both it and its collaterals is slightly bulbous, and it is out of this that the terminal arborisation is formed. The dendritic processes of the nerve-cell appear at a later period than the axon. The surface of the neuroblast becomes rough and then somewhat spiny. By the growth and subdivision of these spiny projections the dendrites are formed. As 27