THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 818 (a) The superficial branch (ruinus saj)hemis) jjasses tliroiigh the lower end of Hunter's canal with the long saphenous nerve, and appears superficially on the inner side of the knee between the gracilis and the sartorius. It gives twigs to the integument of the upper and inner part of the leg, and it anastomoses with the inferior internal articular artery. (A) The deep branch (ramus umsculo-articidaris) descends in the substance of the vastus internus along the anterior aspect of the tendon of the adductor magnus. It anastomoses with the superior internal articular artery, and it sends branches outwards, one on the surface of the femur and another along the upper border of the patella, to anastomose with the descending branch of the external circuuiflex, the inferior perforating artery, the superior external articular, and the anterior tibial recurrent. THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. The popliteal artery (a. poplitea) is the direct contiuuatiou of the femoral. It commences at the upper and inner part of the popliteal space, under cover of the semimemhraneous, and terminates at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and on a level with the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia, by dividing into the anterior and the posterior tibial arteries. Erom its origin tlie artery descends, with an outward inclination, to the inter- space between the condyles of the femur, whence it is continued vertically down- wards to its termination. Relations.—Anterior.—It is in contact in front and from above downwards with the popliteal surface of the femur, the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and the fascia covering the posterior surface of the poplitevis. PoHteiior.—The artery is overlapped behind by the outer border of the semi- membranosus above; it is crossed about its middle by the popliteal vein and the internal popliteal nerve, the vein intervening between the artery and the nerve ; whilst in the lower part of its extent it is overlapped by the adjacent borders of the two heads of the gastrocnemius, and crossed by the nerve to the poj^liteus and by the j^lantaris muscle. Lateral.—On its outer side it is in relation above with the internal popliteal nerve and the popliteal vein, then with the outer condyle of the feuuir, and lielow with the outer head of the gastrocneiuius and with the plantaris. On the inner side it is in relation above with the semimembranosus, in the middle with the inner condyle of the femur, and below with the internal popliteal nerve, the popliteal vein, and the internal head of the gastrocnemius. P()plite^d lymphatic glands are arranged irregularly around the artery. Branches.—(1) Muscular branches are given off in two sets, upper and lower. The upper muscular branches are distributed to the lower parts of the hamstring muscles, in which they anastomose with branches of the profunda artery. The lower nuiscvilar, or sural, arteries (aa. surales) enter the upper parts of the gastro- cnemius, the plantaris, the soleus, and the popliteus muscles,.and they anastomose with branches of the posterior tibial artery and the lower articular arteries. (2) The articular branches are five in number—viz. upper and lower external, upjx'r and lower internal, and an azygos branch. (a) The superior external articular artery (a. genu superior lateralis) passes outwards above the external condyle, behind the femur and in front of the biceps tendon, into the vastus externus, where it anastomoses with the anastomotic, the descending branch of the external circumflex, and the lowest perforating artery ; it also sends branches downwards to anastomose with the inferior external articular and with the anterior tibial recurrent. {b) The superior internal articular artery (a. genu superior medialis) passes inwards above the internal condyle, behind the femur, and in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus, into the vastus internus. It anastomoses with branches of the anastomotic and of the superior external articular artery. (c) The inferior external articular artery (a. genu inferior lateralis) runs outwards across the popliteus muscle and in front of the ])]antaris and the exteriial head of the gastro- cnemius ; then turning forwards, it is joined by the inferior external articular nerve, and passes to the inner side of the external lateral ligament, where it terminates by anasto- mosing with its fellow of the opposite side and with the superior external articular and anterior tibial recurrent arteries. {d) The inferior internal articular artery (a. genu inferior medialis) passes inwards below the inner tuberosity of the tibia, along the upper border of the popliteus and in front of