740 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. is reflected, the lines of reflection corresponding with the orifices of the great vessels. 1 The a'pex (apex cordis), bluntly rounded, is formed entirely by the left ventricle. It is directed downwards, forwards, and to the left, and is situated, under cover of the anterior border of the left lung and pleura, behind the fifth left intercostal space, three and a-quarter inches from the anterior mesial line. The inferior surface (facies diaphragmatica) is formed by the ventricular part of the heart. It rests upon the diaphragm, chiefly on the central tendon, but, upon the left side, on a small portion of the muscular substance also, and it is divided into two areas—a smaller to the right side and a larger to the left side—by ^n obHque antero-posterior groove, the inferior interventricular sulcus. It is separated from the base by the posterior or inferior portion of the auriculo-ventricular sulcus. The antero - superior surface (facies sterno - costalis) is directed upwards, for- FiG. 546.—The Antero-Supekior Surface op the He.\rt. wards, and to the left. It lies behind the body of the sternum and the inner extremities of the cartilages of the third, fourth, fiftn, and sixth ribs on the right side, and a greater extent of the corresponding cartilages on the left side. This surface is separated into upper and lower sections by the anterior portion of the auriculo - ventricular groove, which runs obliquely from above down- wards, and from left to right, from the level of the third left to that of the sixth right costal cartilage. The upper section of the surface, which is concave, is formed by the auricles; it is separated from the sternum by the roots of the aorta and the pulmonary artery, and is continuous laterally with the auricular appendices which, projecting forwards embrace these great vessels. The lower section of the antero- superior surface is convex; it is formed by the ventricular part of the heart, and is divided by an anterior interventricular sulcus into a smaller left and a larger right ' In tlic fcetus and young child the auricular portion of the heart forms not only the base, but also tlie posterior part of the inferior or diaphragmatic surface.