UROGENITAL SYSTEM. 1084 lliti colon iMid llic (huKlcuuni iiiu liouud down to the kiducy liy tlio i)oi'itonciun. In additiou to the stvuetunts lueutioned, some poi tioTi of the ileum, or of the jcjnuum, is often found in contact with a small part of the right kidney. Tn front of the extreme upper and inner part of tlie left kidney is the inferior jiortion of the left suprarenal capsule; while at a lower level the Tipper part of the StipiiireiKil area Suprarenal area Fi(i. 730.—Thk Kidxkys and Gre.\t Ve.sski.s, viewed from the front. The drawing was made, before removal of the organs, from a specimen in which tlie viscera had been hardened //; situ. The dotted lines marli ont the areas wldch were in contict with tlie various other abdominal viscera. left l-ydney is in contact with the stomach and pancreas. The suprarenal capsule and the pancreas are )>ouud down to the kidney hy connective tissue, ljut the stomach is separated from the part of the kidney with whicli it is in apposition, by the lesser sac of the peritoneum. The part of the kidne}' in actual ccmtact with the stomach is usually a small, somewhat triangular area situated above the level at which the pancreas crosses the left kidney. The renal surface of the spleen is related to the anterior surface (rf the left kidney in its up])er and outer part, the two organs l)eing se])arated by a part (jf the general peritoneal cavity, except along the area where spleen and kidney are connected l)y the lieno-renal ligament. The anterior surface of the lower end of the left kidney is related, towards the inner side, to a part of the jejunum, and towards the outer side to a part of tlie sydenic flexure of the colon. The right and left colic arteries, or their brandies, as they pass outwards to reach the colon, arc often related to the anterior aspects of the corresponding kidneys. The splenic artery proceeds in front of the left kidney (Fig. 735). The anterior surface of a kidney, which has been hardened in situ, is, like the posterior surface, not uniformly rounded, but marked by a series of impressions corresponding to the different structures which lie in contact with it. In the case of each kidney, the most prominent region on the anterior surface lies below the level of tht! middle of the kidney, and corresponds to the thickest part of the organ. From this prominence on the anterior surface a series of more or less flattened planes slope away towards the borders of the kidney. These flattened areas are the impressions formed by the viscera which lie in front of the kidney. In the case of the right kidney, three impressions can usually be distinguished on the anterior surface. One occtipies the whole of the u]iper part of the organ,