151 NORMA LATERALIS OF THE SKULL. surfaces of that process. Externally and in front, the fossa is overhung by the backward projection of the frontal process of the malar bone, and it is under cover of this, and within the angle formed by the frontal and orbital processes of the .malar, we see the opening of the temporal canal, which pierces the orbital plate of the . malar and transmits the temporal branch of the orbital nerve—a filament of the superior maxillary division of the V nerve. The fore part of the spheno-maxillary fissure (fissura orbita inferior) opens into the lower part of the temporal fossa, and thus establishes a communication between it and the orbit. If the floor of the fossa be carefully examined, some more or less distinct vascular grooves may be seen. One passing upwards over the posterior part of the squamous temporal, immediately in front of and above the external auditory meatus, is for the middle temporal artery; two others, usually less distinct, pass up, one over the temporal surface of the great wing of the sphenoid, the other over the fore part of the squamous temporal; these are for the anterior and posterior deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary artery. The fossa contains the temporal muscle with its vessels and nerves, together with the temporal branch of the orbital nerve and some fat; all of which are enclosed by the fascia which stretches over the space from the upper temporal line above to the superior border of the zygomatic arch below. The extent of the fossa depends on the size of the temporal muscle, the development of which is correlated with the size and weight of the lower jaw. Springing from the front and lower part of the squamous temporal is the. zygomatic process of that bone; it has two roots, an anterior and a posterior, between and below which are placed the glenoid fossa (fossa mandibularis) in front, and the opening of the external auditory meatus behind. Of compressed triangular form, the process at flrst has its surfaces directed upwards and downwards, but curving out- wards and forwards, it twists on itself, so that its narrowed surfaces are now turned outwards and inwards, and its edges upwards and downwards; passing forwards, it expands somewhat, and ends in an oblique serrated surface, which unites with the temporal process of the malar bone and completes the zygomatic arch. It is the upper edge of this bridge of bone which forms the posterior root. The lower bordei^, turning inwards, forms the anterior root, and serves to separate the temporal from the zygomatic surface of the squamous temporal, blending in front with the infra- temporal crest on the outer surface of the great wing of the sphenoid. The under surface of this root is convex from before backwards, and is thrown into relief by the glenoid hollow, which passes up behind it. In this way a downward projection, which is called the eminentia articularis, is formed. The alar spine of the sphenoid (spina angularis) lies immediately to the inner side of the articular part of the glenoid fossa. Its size and projection vary. It is well to remember its relation to the condyle of the lower jaw when that bone is in position; lying, as it does, to the inner side and a little in front of that process, it affords attachment to the so-called long internal lateral ligament (spheno- mandibular) of the temporo-maxillary articulation. As will be seen hereafter, the anterior extremity of the osseous Eustachian canal lies immediately to its inner side (p. 159). A noteworthy feature about the articular part of the glenoid fossa is the thinness of the bony plate which serves to separate it from the middle cranial fossa above. The vaginal process is a crest of bone which runs obliquely forwards from the front and inner side of the mastoid process, just below the external auditory meatus, to the alar spine of the sphenoid. Passing downwards and slightly forwards from the centre of this, and ensheathed by it in front and at the sides, is the pointed styloid process, the length of which is extremely variable. In the recess between the posterior root of the zygoma and the upper curved edge of the meatus there is usually a depression, though in some instances this may be replaced by a slight bulging of the bone. If from the posterior root of the zygoma a vertical line be let fall, tangential to the posterior edge of the meatus, a small triangular area is mapped off which has been named by Macewen the supra- meatal triangle. Surgically this is of importance, as it is the spot selected in which to trephine the bone to reach the mastoid antrum (see p. 116). In the suture between the posterior border of the mastoid-temporal and the