98 OSTEOLOGY. of a synovial joint with the ninth, the ninth with the eighth, and the eighth with the seventh. There are also surfaces for the articulation of the seventh with the sixth, and sometimes for the sixth with the fifth. Variations.—Occasionally a costal cartilage is unduly broad, and may be piei'ced by a foramen. The number of costal cartilages connected with the sternum may be reduced to six or increased to eight (see p. 93). In advanced life there is a tendency towards ossification in the layers underlying the perichondrium, more particularly in the case of the first rib cai'tilage, in which it may be regarded as a more or less normal occurrence. THE THORAX AS A WHOLE. The bony and cartilaginous thorax is barrel-shaped, being narrower above than below, and compressed from before backwards. Its posterior wall is longer than its anterior, and its trans- verse width, which reaches its maximum opposite the eiglith or ninth rib, is much in excess of its sagittal diameter. This is largely owing to the forward projection of the thoracic part of the vertebral column into the thoracic cavity. The anterior wall is formed by the ribs and rib cartilages, to- gether with the sternum. The posterior wall comprises the thoracic part of the vertebral column and the ribs as far as their angles. Owing to the backward curve of the ribs, and the projection forwards of the vertebral bodies, the antero - posterior diameter of the thoracic cavity is considerably greater on either side of the middle line than in the mesial plane, thus allowing for the lodg- ment of the rounded posterior ])orders of the lungs. For the same reason the furrow on either side of the spinous processes of the thoracic vertebrte is converted into a broad groove (vertebral groove), the floor of which is in part formed by the ribs as far as their angles. The grooves so formed are each occupied by the fleshy mass of the erector spinte muscle. The lateral walls are formed by the costal arches. The ribs which rmi obliquely from above downwards and forwards do not lie parallel to each other, but spread somewhat, so that tlie intervals between them (intercostal spaces) are wider in front than behind. The superior aperture or inlet formed by the body of the first thoracic vertebra behind, the arches of the first rib on either side, and the upper border of the manubrium sterni in front, is contracted and of reniform shape. The plane of the inlet l-i oljli(]ue from behind downwards and forwards, so that in expiration tlie Fig. 75.—The Thorax as seex from the Front.