310 THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. passing outwards along the iipper border of the pectoralis minor, it reaches the coracoid process. Tlie part of the membrane extending directly between the first costal cartilage and the coracoid process is thickened and forms the costo-coracoid ligament. The costo-coracoid membrane is otherwise thin and of comparatively small importance. It is pierced by the cephalic vein, thoracic axis artery, and branches of the external anterior thoracic nerve. By its deep surface it is connected to tlie sheath of the axillary vessels. At the lower border of the pectoralis minor there is a further extension of the deep fascia beneath the pectoralis major. It passes downwards to join the fascia forming the tioor of the axilla, and is continued externally iuto the fascia covering the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. MUSCLES OF THE PECTORAL REGION. The muscles connecting the upper limb to the axial skeleton anteriorly comprise the pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, subclavius, serratus magnus, and sterno- cleido-mastoid (the last descriljed in a later section). Tlie pectoralis major is a large fan-shaped muscle arising in tliree parts:—(1) a clavicular portion arising from the front of the clavicle in its inner half or two- thirds ; (2) a costo-sternal portion, the largest part of the muscle, arising from the anterior surface of the pre-sternum and meso-sternum by tendinous fibres decus- sating with those of the opposite muscle : and more deeply from the cartilages of the first six ribs; (3) an ahdominal 'portion, a small and separate slip, arising from the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus muscle. The abdominal slip, at first separate, soon merges with the costo-sternal portion, but a distinct interval usually remains between the two first-named parts of the muscle. The fibres converge towards the upper part of the arm, and are inserted into (1) the outer border of the bicipit il groove of the humerus, extending upwards to the great tuberosity, and blending externally with the insertion of the deltoid, internally with the insertion of the latissimus dorsi; (2) from the upper border of the insertion a membranous band extends upwards to the capsule of the shoulder joint, enveloping at the same time the tendon of the biceps; and (3) from the lower border a band of fascia passes down- wards to join the fascia of the arm. The arrangement of the fibres of the muscle at its insertion is peculiar. The muscle is twisted on itself, so that the lower (costo-sternal) fibres are directed upwards and outwards behind the upper (clavicular) part of the muscle; in conse- quence the clavicular part is attached to the humerus lower down than the costo- sternal portion, and is inserted also into the fascia of the arm. Placed superficially in the chest, the pectoralis major, by its lower or outer border, forms the anterior fold of the axilla. Its upper border is separated from the edge of the deltoid muscle by an interval in which lie the cephalic vein and humeral artery. Its deep surface is in relation with the ribs and intercostal muscles, the costo-coracoid membrane and the structures piercing it, the pectoralis minor, the axillary vessels, and. the nerves of the brachial plexus. Sternalis muscle.—The stemalis muscle is present in 4-4 cases out of 100. It is slightly more frequent in the male than in the female. It has heen regarded by different observers as (1) a vestige of the panniculus carnosus, (2) an homologue of the sterno-mastoid, or (3) a displaced slij) of the pectoralis major. It is placed, when present, parallel to the sternum upon the sterno-costal origin of the pectoralis major, and lias attachments which are very variable, above and l)elow, to the. costal cartilages, sternum, rectus .sheath, sterno-mastoid, and j^ectoralis major. Its nerve supply- is from one or both of the anterior thoracic nerves. In certain rare cases it has been said to be. innervated by intercostal nerves. Chondro-epitrochlearls, dorso-epitrochlearis, axillary arches, costo-coracoideus.—One or other of the above-named slips is occasionally ])resent, crossing tlie floor of the axilla in the interval between the latissimus dorsi and the jiectoralis major. They take origin from the costal cartilages, ribs, or borders of the pectoralis major (chondro-epitrochlearis, axillai-ij arches, costo- coracoideus), or from the border of the latissimus dorsi {dorso-epitrochlearis, axillary arches, costo- coracoideus). Their insertion is variable. The chondro-epitrochlearis and dorso-epitrochlearis are inserted into the fascia (jf the arm on the inner side, the internal intennuscular sei)tum, or the internal condyle of the humerus. The axillary arches are inserted into the border of the pectoralis major, the fascia of the arm, or the coraco-brachialis or biceps muscle. The costo-coracoid ens, arising from the ribs or the ajioneurosis of the obliquus externus, or detaching itself from the