141 THE INFEEIOE MAXILLAEY BONE. that muscle is powerfully developed the bone is usually marked by a series of oblique curved ridges, best seen towards the angle. About the middle of the deep or innei' surface is the large opening (foramen mandibulare) of the inferior dental canal, which runs downwards and forwards to reach the body, and transmits the inferior dental vessels and nerves. This aperture is overhung in front by a pointed scale of bone, the lingula, to the edges of which the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation is attached. Behind the lingula and leading down- wards and forwards for an inch or so from the opening of the inferior dental canal is the mylo-hyoid groove (sulcus mylo-hyoideus), along which the mylo-hyoid artery and nerve pass. Behind and below this groove the inner surface of the angle is rough for the attachment of the internal pterygoid muscle. Superiorly the ramus supports the coronoid process in front, and the condyle behind, the two being separated by the wide sigmoid notch (incisura mandibular), over which there pass in the recent condition the vessels and nerve to the masseter muscle. The coronoid process, of variable length and beak-shaped, is limited behind by a thin curved margin, which forms the anterior boundary of the sigmoid notch. In front its anterior edge is convex from above downwards and forwards, and becomes con- fluent below with the anterior border of the ramus and the external oblique line. -To the inner side of this ridge there is a grooved elongated triangular surface, the inner margin of which, commencing above near the summit of the coronoid process, leads downwards along the inner side of the root of the last molar tooth towards the internal oblique line. Behind this ridge the thickness of the ramus is much reduced. The temporal muscle is inserted into the margins and inner surface of the coronoid process. The posterior border of the ramus is continued upwards to support the condyle (capitulum mandibulai), below which it is some- what constricted to form the neck (collum mandibular), which is compressed from before backwards, and bounds the sigmoid hollow posteriorly. To the inner side of the neck, immediately below the condyle, there is a little depression (fovea pterygoidea) for the insertion of the external pterygoid muscle. The convex surface of the condyle is transversely elongated, and so disposed that its long axis is inclined nearly horizontally from within outwards and a little forwards. The convexity of the condyle is more marked in its antero-posterior than in its transverse diameter. Architecture.—The mandible is remarkable for the density and thickness of its inner and outer walls. Where these coalesce below at the base of the body, the bone is particularly stout. Superiorly, where they form the walls of the alveoli, they gradually thin, being thicker, however, on the inner than the outer side, except in the region of the last molar tooth where the inner wall is the thinner. The cancellous substance is Of)en-ineshed below, finer and more condensed where it surrounds the alveoli. The inferior dental canal is large and has no very definite wall; it is prolonged beyond the mental foramen to reach the incisor teeth. From it numerous channels pass upwards to the sockets of the teeth, and it communicates freely with the surrounding cancellous tissue. Above the canal the substance of the bone is broken up by the alveoli for the reception of the roots of the teeth. In the substance of the condyle the cancellous tissue is more compact, with a general striation vertical to the articular surface. Variations.—Considerable differences are met with in the height of the coronoid process: usually its summit reaches the same level as the condyle, or slightly above it; occasionally, how- ever, it rises to a much higher level; in other cases it is much reduced. These differences naturally react on the form of the sigmoid notch. The projection of the mental protuberance is also liable to vary. Occasionally the mental foramen is double, and sometimes the mylo-hyoid groove is for a short distance converted into a canal. Ossification.—The development of the lower jaw is intimately associated with Meckel's cartilage, the cartilaginous bar of the first visceral or mandibular arch. Meckel's cartilages, of which there are two, are connected proximally with the periotic capsule and cranial base. Their distal ends are united in the region of the symphysis. It is in the connective tissue overlying the outer surface of this cartilaginous arch that the bulk of the lower jaw is developed. The cartilage itself is not converted into bone, but undergoes resorption, except its anterior extremity, which is stated to undergo ossification to form the part of tUe jaw lying between the mental foramen and the symphysis. In a third or fourth moiith foetus the cartilage can be traced from the under surface of the fore part of the tympanic ring downwards and forwards to reach the jaw, to which it is attached at the opening of the inferior dental canal; from this it may be traced forwards as a narrow strip applied to the inner surface of the mandible, which it sensibly grooves.