THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 1227 The orifice of the appendix opens upon the postero-internal aspect of the ctecuni ahout an inch below the ileo-ciecal valve. The appendix will generally he found to pass either upwards and inwards behind the lower end of the ileum, or downwards and inwards so as to overhang the external iliac vessels at the brim of the pelvis; less frequently it ascends in the pouch behind the commencement of the ascending colon. The hlood supply of the a2)2Jendix is derived from a single artery (a branch of the ileo-colic) which occupies the small mesentery of the appendix; hence interference with the flow of l)lood along this vessel, either mechanically or from disease, predisposes to gangrene of the appendix. In expos- ing the appendix, the centre of the incision should be about 1 in. below and external to the mid-point between the uml)ilicus and the anterior superior iliac spine. The sheath of the rectus should, if possible, not be opened. After dividing the peritoneum, the appendix is sought for l)y passing the finger behind the angle formed by the inner aspect of the ctecum and the lower end of the ileum. It may l»e necessary to ))ring the c;ecum out of the wound, in order that the anterior longitudinal band of muscular fibres (taenia coli) may be traced downwards to the root of the appendix. The ascending colon, after crossing the iliac crest, lies deeply in the right lumbar region upon the quadratus lumborum and the right kidney. The hepatic flexure reaches u])\vards beneath the tenth costal cartilage into the lowest part of the right hypuclioudrium, where it lies immediately to the right of the gall-bladder, l.ietween the liver and the lower half of the anterior surface of the kidney. * The transverse colon crosses the iipper part of the umbilical region. Not. infrequently it forms a U-shaped or a V-shaped loop which reaches for a variable distance ))elow the level of the uml)ilicus; when the intestines are distended it may ascend in front of the stomach. The splenic flexure reaches uyjwards liehind the greater curvature of the stomach into the left hypochondriac region, as far as the lower extremity of the spleen, from which it is separated by the costocolic fold of peritoneum. The descending colon lies deeply in the left lumbar region, along the lower half of the outer Ijorder of the left kidney. The iliac and pelvic portions of the colon lie respectively in the left iliac fossa and in the true pelvis; the latter is provided with a distinct mesentery which, as it crosses the lett ureter and the bifurcation of the common iliac A''essels, forms the intersigmoid peritoneal fossa. This fossa is sometimes the starting-point of an internal retroperitoneal hernia. The mouth of the fossa looks downwards and to the left; al )ove and to its right is the sigmoid artery. The iliac colon can generally be felt through the al)dominal wall as it descends from the crest of the ileum to the inner margin of the psoas muscle. The iliac colon is the part of the bowel whicli is most frequently opened when it is desired to make an artificial anus. It is exposed through an oblique incision, the centre of which is at the junction of the middle and outer thirds of a line drawn from the umbilicus to the anterior superior iliac spine. Kidneys.—The kidneys, which lie behind the peritoneum, extend higher up than is often supposed, and laterally they do not extend so far away from the spine as is almost invarial)ly depicted ; hence it is that, unless enlarged, the kidneys can seldom be felt throitgh the abdominal wall. The right kidney as a rule lies a little lower than the left, as well as a little further away from the mesial plane. The hilus of the right kidney lies 2 in. from the mesial plane; that of the left Ih in. from the mesial plane. For practical purposes the hilus of the kidney may be regarded as opposite a point on the anterior aljdominal wall a finger's Ijreadth internal to the tip of the ninth costal cartilage; and a line joining the two hili crosses the vertebral column opposite the disc between the first and second lumbar verteln'iie, that is to say, on a level with the transpyloric line. The highest point of the kidney is situated two inches from the mesial plane, on a level with a line crossing the abdomen midway between the xiphisternal and transpyloric planes. The lowest point of the kidney reaches down to, or a little below, the infracostal plane. The student should make himself familiar with the feel of the parts in relation to the kidneys, as far as they can he made out by introducing the hand through a mesial abdominal incision. The lower half of the right kidney is covered by the