THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. 566 spinal nerves; the thoracic nerves (except the first) are much more slender than the limb nerves; and the cervical nerves diminish in size from below upwards. Origin of the Spinal Nerves.—Each spinal nerve is attached to the spinal cord ]jy two roots, called respectively dorsal (posterior), and ventral (anterior). Tlie dorsal root is larger than the ventral root; it contains a larger numl:)er of rootlets, and the in- dividnal rootlets are of larger size than in the ventral root. It has a vertical linear attachment to the postero-lateral sulcus of the spinal cord. The root- lets of contiguous dorsal roots are in close relation, and, in some instances, overlap. The dorsal root separates as it passes away from the cord into two bundles, both of which l)ecome connected with the inner end of a spinal ganglion. From the outer end of this ganglion the dorsal root proceeds to its junction witli the ventral root in the inter-vertebral foramen. The spinal ganglia are found on the dorsal roots of all the spinal nerves. (In the case of the first cervical (sub-occipital) nerve, the spinal ganglion may be rudimentary or absent; and the dorsal root itself may be wanting, or derived from the spinal accessory nerve.) They occupy the inter-vertebral foramina, except in the case of the sacral and coccygeal ganglia, which lie %vithin the vertebral canal, and the first and second cervical nerves, the ganglia of which lie Tipon the neural arches of the atlas and axis respec- tively. With the exception of the coccygeal ganglion they are outside the cavity of the dura mater, but are invested by the membrane. The ganglia are of ovoid form, bifurcated in some cases at their inner ends. They consist of unipolar nerve-cells, whose processes, after a very short course, divide into central and peripheral fibres: the central fibres form the portion of the root entering the spinal cord; the peripheral fibres are continued in an outward direc- tion from the ganglion into the spinal nerve. Accessory spinal ganglia (ganglia ahenantia).—Between the sjMual ganglion and the spinal cord small collections of cells are occasionally found on the dorsal roots, either as ' scattered cells or distinct ganglia. Tliey are most frequently met v:\ih on the dorsal roots of tlie lumbar and sacral nerves. The ventral root is smaller than the dorsal root. It arises from the anterior surface of the spinal cord {anierior root zone) by means of scattered bundles of nerve fibres, which occupy a greater horizontal area and are more irregular in their arrangement than the fascicles of the dorsal root. It possesses no ganglion in its course. The rootlets sometimes overlap, and are not unfrequently connected with neighbouring rootlets al)Ove and below. The dorsal and ventral roots, fronr their attach- ment to the spinal cord, proceed outwards in the spinal canal towards the intervertebral foramina, where they unite to form the spinal nerve. The direction of the roots of the first two nerves is roots of the remaining nerves course obliquely down- liquity gradually increasing until, in the case of the coccygeal nerve-roots, their course is vertically down- FiG. 420. — Diagrammatic Rei-he- sentation op the roots and Ganglia of the Spinal Nerves, showing their position in relation to tlie spinal column. The nerves are shown as thick black lines on the left siile. upwards and outwards ; the wards and outwards, the ob lower lumbar, the sacral and