luuo THE DKiESTIVE SYSTEM. which are particularly well developed, afford, by their simultaneous contraction, an effective means of closing the oesophagus iiuiuediately above the cardia, and thus of preventing regurgita- tion of the contents of tlie stomach. The pyloric orifice or pylorus is tlie aperture tluuugli which the Htuiuach euui- uiunicates with the (huKleiium. It is marked on the surface liy a shght constriction, most evident at the curvatures: and in the interi(jr hy a prominent thickenifi"' of the wall—the pyloric valve (valvula pylori)—produced hy a special development of the circular muscular lihres, known as the ])yloric sphincter (musculus sphincter pylori). When examined post-mortem in the ordinary way, the aperture, viewed from the duodenal side, is somewhat oval in form, and closely reseml)les the external OS uteri (Cunningham). When seen from the opposite side, it presents an irregular or stellate appearance, owing to the fact that the rug;c of the gastric mucous mend)rane are continued uj) to the orifice. The pylorus rests on the neck of tlie pancreas helow aiul heliind, a,nd is over- lapped by the liver ai)ove and in front. Its average position can he marked on the surface of the l)ody by the inte'rsectioii of two lines; one drawn horizontally half- way between the top of the sternum and the pubic crest (Addison), the other drawn vertically a, little wa\- (I inch, 12 nna.) to the right of the middle line. During the earlier stages of gastric (hgestion the sjihiiicter pylori is strongly contracted and the aperture firmly closed, but it opens intei-mittently to allow of the jias.sage of pi-o]>erly digested ])ortions of the food. As digestion advances the sphincter probably relaxes somewhat ; but in hardened Ijodies a really ])atent pylorus is rarely or never found, ■which would seem to indicate that the pylorus is normally closed, or nearly so, and that its opening is an active rather than a passive condition, as in the case of the anal canal. As regards its size, the ])y]orus is stated to be about i inch (12'5 mui.) in diameter, Init then- is no doulit tliat this re])resents ueithe?' its full size nor the calibre of the valve when at rest. Foreign bodies with a diameter of 4' to 1 inch have been known to j)ass tlu'ough the pylorus without giving ri.se to trouble, even in children. On the other hand, when at rest, with an eni])ty stomach and duodenum, tlie a])erture, as seen in formalin-hardened l)odies, is practically closed, and pre- sents a stellate or ])ur.se-moiith ajjpear- ance, ^-iewed from either aspect. In hardened bodies with distended stonuich and duodenum, the a])erture, which is somewhat oval, is practically closed, and from the duodenal side resend)les the external os uteri. But both in the empty and tli.e distended condition of the stomach the pylorus seem.s to be i-atlier a tuljular nai-i'owing, extending over at least A to 1 incli of the canal, than a sudden constriction. When the stomach is emiity the ])ylorus is usually i)laced near (i.e. within i inch, 12 nun. of) tlie middle line, l)eneatli the left or sometimes the i[uadrate lobe of the liver, and at tlu' level of the first lumbar vertebra, or the disc between this and the second huubar. During distension it is jnished over beneath the tpiadrate lol)e for a varial)le distance, but very rarely moi-e than U or 2 inches to the right of the middle line ; and its orifice, instead of looking t(jwards the right, is then dii'ected backwards, for, as already ex- ])lained, the antrum in distension is ■ ■ ■ the Kulcif'ui'iii ligaiiient (cut) Pyloric end of stoiiiacli Subcostal lino SCALE IN INCHES FlO scale in centimetres 678.—Abdomen of Fk.viai.e, showinc; Disi'LAce.mknts resdltinc from tl(!ht lacing. The liver i.s much enlarged, and extends on the left side to the liiis, wliere it was folded back on itself for over an inch. The pyloric end of the stomach and the beginnini; - of the duodenum are (juite superficial below the liver, and cai-ried to the right in front all the viscera are di.splaced downward.s. (From a jihoto- pylorus, or even beyond it. graph of a body hardeiieil by injections of formalin.) Peritoneal Relations. The stomacli is almost completely covered by peritoneum—the anterior surface being clothed b}' the posterior layer of the great sac, and the posterior surface by tin;