286 THE AKTICULATIONS OE JOINTS. The acetabulum is a deep cup-shaped cavity which presents an interruption or notch on its antero-inferior margin. The interior of the cup is lined by a ribbon- like band of articular cartilage which extends to the brim of the cavity, but does not cover the floor of the cup. This articular ribbon-shaped band is widest on its supero-posterior aspect, and narrowest at the anterior margin of the notch. The transverse ligament (lig. transversum acetabuli, Fig. 221) bridges the ace- tabular notch, and consists of strong transverse fibres which are attached to both of its margins, but more extensively to the postero-inferior. This ligament does not entirely fill the notch, but leaves an open interval between its lower border and the bottom of the notch through which vessels and nerves enter the cup. The acetabular aspect of this ligament constitutes an articular surface. The acetabulum is deepened by the cotyloid ligament (labrum glenoidale, Figs. 221 and 222). This ligament consists of a strong ring of fibro-cartilaginous tissue attached to the entire rim of the cup. The attached surface of the ring is broader than its free edge, and, moreover, the latter is somewhat contracted, so that the ligament grasps the head of the femur which it encircles. Its fibres are partly oblique and partly circular in their direction. By the former it is firmly implanted on the rim of the acetabulum and the transverse ligament of the notch; by the latter the depth of the cup is increased through the elevation of its edge, and its mouth slightly narrowed. By one surface this ligament is also articular. A capsule (capsula articularis. Figs. 220 and 222) completely invests the joint- cavity. This is a fibrous membrane of great strength, although it is not of equal thickness throughout, being considerably thicker on the supero-anterior aspect than at any other part. Unlike the corresponding structure of the shoulder-joint, it does not permit of the withdrawal of the head of the femur from contact with the aceta- bular articular surfaces, except to a very limited extent. Its fibres are arranged both in the circular and in the longitudinal direction, the former, known as the zona orbicularis, being best marked posteriorly, while the longitudinal fibres stand out more distinctly in front, where they constitute special ligaments. Looked at as a whole, the capsule has the following attachments:—superiorly it surrounds the acetabulum, on the upper and hinder aspects of which it is attached directly to the innominate bone, while on the front and lower aspects it is attached to the non - articular surfaces of the cotyloid and transverse ligaments; inferiorly it encircles the neck of the femur, where it is attached in front to the anterior inter- trochanteric line ; above, to the inner aspect of the root of the great trochanter; below, to the lower part of the neck of the femur, in close proximity to the small trochanter; behind, to the line of junction of the outer and middle thirds of the neck of the femur. It is a matter of some importance to note that only part of the posterior surface of the neck of the femur is enclosed within the capsule. The femoral attachments of the capsule vary considerably in their strength, being particularly firm above and in front, but much weaker below and behind, where the orbicular fibres are well seen. Many fibres of the capsule are reflected from its deep aspect upwards iipon the neck of the femur, where they form ridges, and to these the term rectinacula (Fig. 221) is applied. The longitudinal fibres of the capsule are arranged so as to form certain definite bands, viz.:— (1) The ilio-femoral ligament (lig. ilio - femorale. Fig. 222) consists of a tri- angular set of fibres attached above, by their apex, to the lower part of the anterior inferior iliac spine and the immediately adjoining part of the rim of the aceta- bulum, and below, by their base, to the anterior intertrochanteric line of the femur. This ligament is the thickest part of the capsule, but its sides are more pronounced than its centre, especially towards its base. Conseqiiently the ilio-femoral band presents some resemblance to an inverted Y (A), and therefore it is very generally known as the Y-shaped ligament of Bigelow. Tlie outer or upper limb of the ilio-femoral ligament may be somewhat extended by the inclusion of additional longitudinal fibres, and described as the ilio-trochanteric ligament (lig. ilio-trochantericum). This band arises from the anterior part of the dorsum of the acetabulum, and extends to the femoral neck, close to the anterior end of the inner surface of the great trochanter.