THE RESPIKATOEY SYSTEM. 914 elastic band, somewhat broken up by adipose tissue, which connects the anterior face of the epiglottis to the upper border of the hyoid bone. The thyro-epiglottidean ligament (ligamentum thyreoepiglotticum) is strong and thick (Tig- 614, p. 910). Composed mainly of elastic tissue, it proceeds downwards from the lower pointed extremity of the epiglottis, and is attached to the angular depression between the two ahe of the thyroid cartilage below and behind the median notch. A triangular interval is left between the anterior face of the epiglottis and the thyro-hyoid membrane. This is imperfectly closed above by the liyo-epiglottidean ligament, and contains a pad of soft fat (Fig. 618, p. 916). INTERIOR OF THE LARYNX. The cavity of the larynx is sn:ialler than might be expected from an inspection of its exterior. On looking into its interior through the superior aperture it is seen to be sirbdivided into three portions by two elevated folds of mucous mem- brane which extend from before backwards, and project inwards from each side-wall of the cavity. The upper pair of folds are the false vocal cords ; the lower, more definite pair, are the true vocal cords. The latter are the chief agents in the pro- duction of the voice, and the larynx is so constructed that changes in their relative position and in their degree of tension are brought about l)y the action of the muscles and the recoil of the elastic ligaments. Superior Aperture of the Larynx (aditus laryn^is).—This is a large obliquely- placed opening wliicli .slo]>es rapidly from above (Jownwards and backwards. Some- what triangular in outline, the basal part of the aper- ture, placed above and in front, is formed by the free border of the epiglottis. Behind, the opening rapidly narrows, and finally ends in the interval between the two arytenoid cartilages. The sides of the aperture are formed by two sharp and prominent folds of mucous membrane called the aryteno - epiglottidean folds (plic* aryepiglotticie), which stretch between the lateral margins of the epi- glottis in front and the arytenoid cartilages behind. The aryteno-epiglot- tidean folds enclose between the two layers of mucous membrane which compose them some connective tissue, muscular fibres be- longing to the aryteno-epiglottidean muscles, and in their posterior parts the cuneiform cartilages and the cornicula laryngis which surmount the arytenoid cartilages. These small nodules of cartilage raise the hinder part of the aryteno- epiglottidean fold in tlie form of two rounded eminences, termed respectively the cuneiform tubercle (tuberculum cuneiforme) and the tubercle of Santorini (tuberculum corniculatum). On either side of the ])osterior part of the laryngeal opening there is, in the pharynx, a small downwardly-directed recess which presents a wide entrance, but rapidly narrows towards the bottom. It is termed the sinus pyriformis, and it is important to the surgeon, because foreign bodies introduced into the pharynx are liable to be caught in this little pocket. On the inner side the sinus pyriformis is Hyoid bon True vocal cord Riiiia glottidis' Pyriform / sinus ; Superior conni "lir I. thyroid \ |/|. Pharyngeal wail (cut) Fig. 616.—Supeuioh Ai'Ehtuhe of Lakynx, exposed by laying open tlie ])harynx from behind. Middle t;losso- ei)iglottiiIean lij^aiuent Vallecula Lateral glosso- epiglottidean ligaiiiput Epiglottis Oushioii of epiglottis Aryteiio- eyiglottidean fold Laryngeal sinus False vocal cord Cuneiform tubercle Tubercle of Saiitoriui Posterior aspect of cricoid cartilage