MUSCLES ON FEONT AND INNEK ASPECT OF FOEEAEM. 327 Internal intermuscular septum Common origin of pronator and flexor muscles Braohialis anticus Q'ermlnation of musoulo-spiral nerve Biceps tendon Ulnar nerve Supinator radii brevis Median nerve Ulnar origin of flexor longcs pollicis Flexor carpi ulnaris Radial origin of flexor sublimis diuitorum Flexor profundus dioitorum Radial origin of flexor longus pollicis a digital sheath beneath the tendon of the flexor sublimis digitorum, which it pierces opposite the first phalanx, and is finally inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx. Like the tendons of the flexor sublimis, those of the deep flexor are provided with vincula accessoria, viz. ligamenta brevia attached to the capsule of the second interphalangeal articulation, and liga- menta longa, which are in this case connected to the tendons of the subjacent flexor sublimis digitoruni. Lumbricales. — Four small cylindrical muscles are associated with the tendons of the flexor pro- fundus digitorum in the palm of the hand. The tivo outermost muscles arise from the radial side of the tendons of the flexor profundus digi- torum destined for the fore and middle fingers. The two innermost muscles arise, each by two heads, from the adjacent sides of the second and third, and third and fourth ten- dons. From these origins the muscles are directed downwards to the radial side of each of the meta- carpo-phalangeal joints, to be inserted into the cap- sules of these articula-* tions, the outer border of the first phalanx, and chiefly into the outer side of the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the phalanx. The lumbricales vary con- siderably in number, and may be increased to six or diminished to two. In the forearm the flexor profundus digi- torum is concealed by the flexor sublimis digitorum and flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, and by the ulnar nerve and artery. Under the anterior annular liga- ment the muscle is placed beneath the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum, and is enveloped in the common bursal sac. In the palm the tendons, along with the lumbrical muscles, cover the deep palmar arch and the interossei muscles, and Extensor ossis metacarpi j POLLICIS (double) \ Extensor brevis polliois- Flexor lonous polliois Plexor carpi radialis Abductor pollicis (cut). Opponens pollicis- Flexor brevis polliois Tendon of flexor t.ongiis. pollicis Adductor transversus pollicis Lumbricales Fio. 243.- -Deep Muscles on the Front of the Foreaem AND Hand.