1059 THE LIVEE. \-orle'bi-al (.■oluiiiii, lull iiicrcly an angle I'uriiicd liy the luculiiig uf the two lolics ruining;- IVniu (lift'erent divectiuiis. Position.—'J'lit! luaiu mass of the liver lies iu the right hypochonclriuiu; from this it extends across the upper part of the epigastrium, and usually reaches as far as the left I'oupart plane. Not uncommonly, however, it passes into the left hypochondrinm, where it may extend even as far as the left lateral wall of the abdomen. Usually, too, its lower margin passes down on the right side for a little distance (A inch, 12-5 mm.) below the subcostal plane, and comes to lie in the Diajiliragui Attacliment o) falciform ligameiif Right lobe of livei Gall bladdei Transverse color. Small intestine Ascending colon Anterior superior .spine M,K. Ciecnm Outline of Vivpr Stonjacli Great omentum (cut) Transverse mesocolon with jejunum beneatli it l\enia of ti'ausverse [ colon External obliiiue mu.scle Internal oljlique Position of umbilicus Part of iliac colon (sigmoid llexure) .Small intestine SCALE IN INCHES SCALE IM CENTIMETRES Fig. 714.—The Abdo.minal Visceua in situ, as .seen when the abdomen is laid open and the great omentum removed {drawn to .scale from a photograph of a male body aged 56, Hardened by formalin injections). The rib.s on tlie right side are indicated by Roman numerals ; it will be observed that the eighth costal cartilage articulated with the sternum on both sides. The subcostal, intertubercular, and right and left Poupart lines are drawn in black, and the mesial plane is indicated by a dotted line. The intercostal muscles and part of the diaphragm have been removed, to show the liver and stomacli extending np beneath the ribs. The stomach was moderately distended, and the intestines were particularly regular in their arrangement. right lumbar regii»n. Under ordinary conditions, the anterior end of the longi- tudinal fissure, which separates the right from the left, lolje, lies one or two inches to the right of the mesial plane. The limits even of the normal liver are very variable, but, taking the average condition in the male, they may Ije marked out on the surface of the bodj^ by the following method:—Three points are determined—(«) half-an-inch (12'5 mm.) below the right nipple: (ft) half-an-inch (12'5 mm.) below the right margin of the thorax (or below the tip of the tenth rib); and (r) one inch (2.") mm.) below the