270 THE AETICULATIONS OR JOINTS. ligaments are three in number, and occujiy the following jjositions : the superior is placed above the aj)erture in the front of tlie capsule ; the middle and inferior on the antero-inferior aspect of the cajisule, and beloiv the aperture mentioned. The superior gleno-humeral ligament, which some believe to represent the ligamentum teres of the hi])-joint, springs, along with the middle gleno-humeral band, from the upper part of the anterior glenoid margin. The inferior band is the strongest of the three, and springs from the lower part of the anterior glenoid margin. Intra-capsular Structures.—1. The glenoid ligament, already described. 2. The long tendon of the biceps passes outwards from its attachment to the apex of the glenoid fossa and the adjoining part of the glenoid ligament, above the head and neck of the humerus, to escape from the interior of the capsule by the opening between the tuberosities of the humerus, subjacent to the transverse humeral ligament. Synovial membrane (Fig. 210) lines the capsule of the joint, and extends from the margin of the glenoid fossa to the humeral attachment.s of the capsule, where it the synovial cavity. The synovial membrane is continuous with those bursse which communicate with the joint cavity through openings in the ligamentous Bursse (a) Communicating with the Joint Cavity.—Practically there is only one bursa which is constant in its position, viz. the subscapular, between the capsule and the tendon of the sub- scapularis muscle. It varies considerably in its dimensions, but its lining membrane is always continuous with that which lines the capsule (Figs. 207 and 208), and therefore it may be regarded merely as a prolongation of the articular synovial membrane. Occasionally a similar but smaller bursa occurs between the capsule and the tendon of tlie infraspinatus muscle. (6) Not communicating with the Joint Cavity. — The sub-deltoid or sub-acromial bursa is situated between the muscles on the superior aspect of the shoulder-joint on the one hand and the deltoid muscle on the other. It is an extensive bursa, and is jjrolonged subjacent to the acromion process and the coraco-acromial ligament. It does not communicate with the shoulder- joint, but it greatly facilitates the movements of the upper end of the humerus against the under surface of the coraco-acromial arch. Movements at the Shoulder-Joint.—A ball-and-socket joint permits of a great variety of movements, jjractically in all directions ; but if these movements be analysed, it will be seen that they resolve themselves into movements about three primary axes at right angles to each other, or about axes which are the j^ossible combinations of the primary ones. Thus, about a transverse axis, the limb may move forwards (flexion) or backwards (extension). About an antero-posterior axis it may move outwards, i.e. away from the mesial plane of the trunk (abduction), or inwards, i.e. towards, and to some extent up to, the mesial plane (adduction). Aljout a vertical axis, the humerus may rotate upon its axis in an inward or outward direction to the extent of a quarter of a circle. Fig. 210.—Vertical Section through the Shoulder-joint. Head of scapula Long head of biceps is reflected towards the margin of the articular cartilage. It is there- fore important to note that the inferior aspect of the humeral neck has the most extensive clothing of synovial membrane. Further, the synovial membrane envelops the intra-cap- sular part of the tendon of the biceps, and al- though this tubular sheath is prolonged upon the tendon into the upper part of the bi- cipital groove, yet the closed character of the synovial cavity is main- tained. Thus, while the tendon is within the capsule, it is not within capsule.