THE EXTERNAL EAE AND EUSTACHIAN TUBE. 41 cells. This also disappears, and the vesicle is embedded in the base of the head in a region above and between those parts of the basal axis which afterwards are transformed into the basi- and pre-sphenoid elements of the sphenoid bone. During the period of its formation and separation the ingrowth from the stomatodiieum comes into relation posteriorly with a small diverticulum from the tioor of the fore-brain, which dilates at its lower end to form the posterior or cerebral lobe of the pituitary body, whilst its upper part remains as the infundi- buluni, the connecting stalk between the pituitary body and the tioor of the third ventricle of the brain. The anterior or stomatodceal lobe of the pituitary body is much larger than the posterior lobe, which it surrounds and conceals both in front and at the sides. It is evident that in the early stages the pituitary body consists of two ectodermal vesicles, the cavity of the posterior vesicle is continuous with the cerebral tube, and that of the anterior vesicle with the cavity of the primitive mouth. The cavity of the posterior vesicle is generally obliterated, and though nervous structures are for a time developed in its walls they entirely disappear in man and are replaced by vascular connective tissue. Occasionally a small part of the cavity remains as a minute vesicle lined with columnar ciliated epithelium. The cavity of the anterior vesicle persists, it sends out numerous diverticula, and is gradually converted into a number of tubular spaces, lined with cubical or columnar cells, united together by vascular connective tissue which has grown amidst the tubules from the surrounding mesoderm. T^^ j-HM THE EXTERNAL EAR, THE TYMPANIC CAVITY, AND THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. The external ear, the tympanic cavity, and the Eustachian tube are all developed from the first visceral cleft and its boundaries. The cleft lies between the mandibular (first) and the hyoid hb (second) visceral arch in the side wall of the pharyngeal portion of the fore-gut, and, before a neck is developed, it extends from just benea.th the otic vesicle, which lies at the side of the hind- brain, above, to the pericardial region below. The membrane which lies at the bottom of the cleft consists in the early stages of ectoderm and entoderm, but in a short time a thin layer of mesoderm grows between the two primary layers, and the trilaminar septum is ultimately converted into the tympanic membrane which separates the external from the middle ear. The differentiation of the outer part of the cleft is initiated by the appearance of six tuber- cles round its margins, which are afterwards transformed into the ■ several parts of the pinna. Two tubercles are formed an- teriorly on the mandibular arch, one at the upper end of the cleft and three posteriorly on the hyoid arch. The two tubercles on the mandibular arch are a small lower, the tuberculum tragicum, and a larger upper, the tuberculum anterius helicis. The tubercle at the i;pper end of the cleft is the tuberculum Fig. 33.—Transverse Section through the Head OP A Rat Embryo. Showing the rudiments of the tliree parts of the ear and their relation to the hyo-maudibular cleft. BV. Blood-vessels. C. Cochlea. EM. Ext. auditory meatus. ET. Eustachian tube. HB. Hiud-brain. HM. Hyo-mandibular cleft. N. Notochord. OV. Otic vesicle. P. Pharynx. RL. Recessus labyrinthii. SC. Semicircular canal. T. Tympanum.