645 THE SEVENTH OK FACIAL NERVE. p. I.' ■ VDI pars intermedia intervening. In the aqueduct of Fallopius the nerve first passes Ijackwards on the inner side of the tympanum, and then downwards behind the tympanum, in the inner wall of the tympanic antrum. In the parotid gland the nerve crosses superficially the external carotid artery and the temporo-maxillary vein. On the face its branches radiate from the anterior border of the parotid gland and enter the deep surface of the facial muscles. Branches and Communications.—(i.) In the internal auditory meatus the pars inter- media (n. intermedins), lying between the facial and auditory nerves, sends communi-;? vnj eating branches to both. The branch to the auditory nerve probably separates from it again to join the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. (ii.) In the aqueduct of Fallopius the geniculate ganglion (g. geniculi) is formed at the point where the facial nerve bends back- wards (geniculum n. facialis). It is an oval swelling on the nerve, and is joined by a branch from the upper (vestibular) trunk of the auditory nerve, by which it probably receives fibres of the pars intermedia. From the ganglion three small nerves arise :— (1) The large superficial petrosal nerve passes forwards through the hiatus Fallopii to the middle fossa of the base of the skull. On VII, Facial nerve; P.I, Pars mtennedia ; VHI, the upper surface of the foramen lacerum medium it is joined by the great deep petrosal nerve from the sympathetic plexus on the internal carotid artery to form the vidian nerve, which, after traversing the vidian canal, ends in Meckel's ganglion. (2) A minute nerve pierces the temporal bone and joins the tympanic branch of the glosso- pharyngeal in the substance of the bone. By their union the small superficial petrosal nerve is formed, which pierces the temporal l)Oue and ends in the otic ganglion. (3) The external superficial petrosal nerve is a minute inconstant branch which joins the sympathetic plexus on the middle meningeal artery. In the course of the facial nerve in the lower part of the aqueduct of Fallopius, behind the tympanum, three branches arise—(1) The small nerve to the stapedius muscle, which passes forwards to the tympanum. (2) The chorda tympani nerve (probably associated with the pars intermedia), which enters the tympanic cavity through the iter chordm posterius, passes over the membrana tympani and the handle of the malleus, and leaves the cavity through the iter chordce cmterius to reach the pterygoid region. Beneath the external pterygoid muscle it becomes incorporated with the lingual branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, and in its further course is inseparable from that nerve. It supplies a root to the sub- maxillary ganglion, and is finally distributed (probably as the nerve of taste) to the side and dorsum of the tongue in its anterior two-thirds. The chorda tympani nerve receives beneath the external pterygoid muscle a fine communication from the otic ganglion. (3) Before it leaves the aqueduct of Fallopius a fine com- municating branch arises from the facial nerve to join the auricidar branch of the pneumogastric nerve. Fig. 463. — The Facial Nerve with its Branches and Communications in the Aqueduct op Fallopius. Auditory nerve ; Aq.Fal, Aqueduct of Fallo- piu.s ; G.G, Geniculate ganglion ; B.S.P, Ex- ternal superficial petrosal nerve ; M.M, Middle meningeal artery ; G.S.P, Great superficial petrosal nerve: G.P.D, Great deep petrosal nei've ; I.C, Internal carotid artery ; Vid, Vidian nerve ; M.G, Meckel's ganglion ; Ty.Pl, Tympanic plexus ; S.D.P, Small deep petrosal nerve ; G.Ph, Glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; Ty, Tympanic branch ; S.S.P, Small superficial petrosal nerve ; O.G, Otic ganglion ; Stap, Nerve to stapedius ; C.T, Chorda tympani nerve ; L, Lingual nerve; A.Va, Communication vt'ith auricular branch of vagus ; P.A, Posterior auricular nerve ; Sty.hy, Nerve to stylo-hyoid ; Di, Nerve to digastric (posterior belly) ; T. F, Temporo - facial division ; C.F, Cervico-facial division ; T, Temporal ; M, Malar; 1.0, Infra- orbital ; B, Buccal ; S.M, Supra-mandibular, and I.M, Infra-mandibular branches.