695 EYELIDS. Chambers of the Eye and Aqueous Humour (Fig. 493).—As already stated (p. 687), the space between the coruea and the lens is divided by the iris into two unequal parts, viz. the anterior chamber in front and the posterior chamber behind. These are tilled by the aqueous humour, and, in the adult, com- municate freely thruugli the ajjerture of the pupil, but in the foetus are separated from each other by the pupillary mem- brane. The anterior chamber (camera oculi anterior) is bounded in front by the cornea, behind by the iris and lens, whilst peripherally it communicates with the spaces of Fontana. The posterior chamber (camera oculi posteiior) is triangular on section, and is bounded in front by the iris, behind by the circumferential part of the lens and its suspensory ligament; the base of the triangle, situated externally, corresponds with the thick, anterior extremities of the ciliary processes. It communicates with the recessus camera? posterior and canal of Petit. The aqueous humour has a refractive index of about 1-336 and consists of about 98 per cent, of water, with 14 per cent, of sodium chloride and traces of albumen. EYELIDS. The eyelids or palpebrse are two movable cutaneous curtains situated in front of the eyeball, and named, from their position, upper and lower. The upper is the larger and more movable, being provided with a special elevator muscle, the m. levator palpebne superioris. The interval between the lids is termed the palpebral fissure (riina palpebrarum), and measures transversely about 30 mm., but varies considerably in different individuals and in different races. When the eye is open the fissure is ell.ptical in shape, but when closed it assumes the form of a transverse slit, which lies on a level with the lower margin of the cornea. The two lids meet at the extremities of the fissure, and form the outer and inner angles, or canthi. Their free margins are flattened and are surmounted by eyelashes from the external canthus to a point about 5 mm. from the inner canthus—a point indicated by a small papilla, the papilla lacrimalis. I nternal to this papilla the margins are rounded and destitute of eyelashes, and form the upper and lower boundaries of a triangular space, termed the lacus lacrimalis, which is occupied by a small pale-red body, the caruncula lacrimalis. This caruncula consists of a minute island of modified skin, and contains sweat glands, sebaceous glands, and fine hairs. Posteriorly, the lids are lined by mucous membrane and are in contact with the eyeball, except near the inner canthus, where, between the eyeball and the carun- cula lacrimalis, there intervenes a vertical fold of conjunctiva, the plica semilunaris conjunctivae. This, which in many animals contains a plate of cartilage, is the representative of the membrana nictitans, or third eyelid of birds, etc. In each lid there exists a framework of condensed fibrous tissue, which gives consistence and shape to the Ud, and is termed the tarsal plate or tarsus. In front of the tarsus are the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle and the integument, while embedded in its posterior surface, and covered by the conjunctiva, • are numerous modified sebaceous glands, named the tarsal or Meibomian glands. The superior tarsal plate (tarsus superior) is larger than the inferior and of a half oval shape, with its greatest vertical diameter measuring about 10 or 11 mm. Its upper margin is thin and convex, and is continuous with the tendon of the levator palpebrfe superioris muscle, while its lower edge is thick and straight. The inferior tarsal plate (tarsus inferior) is a thin, narrow strip, with a nearly uniform vertical diameter of about 5 mm. The extremities of the two plates are continuous with the external and internal tarsal ligaments. The external tarsal ligament is a narrow band attached to the malar bone; it divides, at the outer canthus, into i''Ki. 500. Section thuouoh the EqIIA'IOU OI' THl! LeKS. Showing tlie gradual tran- sition of tlie epithelium into lens fibres (alter Babuchin).