322 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. attachment to the flexor and extensor carpi ulnaris and the flexor profundus digitonun. Above the wrist the fascia is pierced anteriorly by the tendon of the pahnaris longus and by the ulnar artery and nerve. At the wrist it gains attach- ment to the bones of the forearm and carpus, is greatly strengthened by addition of transverse fibres, and constitutes the annular ligaments. The anterior annular ligament of the wrist is a band about an inch and half in depth, continuous above and below with the deep fascia of the forearm and hand. It is attached to the scaphoid and trapezium externally; to the pisiform and unciform bones internally; and it forms a membranous arch binding down in the hollow of the carpus the flexor tendons of the wrist, and the median nerve. It is divided into tivo com-partments, the larger accommodating the tendons of the Flexor profundus digitorum Flexor subi.imis digitorum Lisrameuta vasriiialia lumbricales Flexor profundus digitorum tendons Flexor sublimis digitorum tendons OpPONENS MINIMI DIGITI Flexor brevis minimi dioiti Abductor minimi dioiti Origin of palmar fascia (cut) Anterior annular ligament Palmaris longus- Flexor carpi ulnari: Flexor sublimis dioitorum Tendon of flexor longus pollicis Adductor transversus pollicis Adductor obliquus pollicis Flexor brevis pollicis Abductor pollicis Opponens pollicis Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis Flexor carpi radialis Posterior annular ligament FiQ. 239.—The Muscles and Tendons in the Palm of the Hand. flexors of the digits and the median nerve, the smaller (placed externally) contain- ing the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. There are three synovial mevibranes in these compartments: one for the flexor carpi radialis tendon, the other two, which may communicate together, enveloping the tendons of the flexor longus pollicis and the flexor tendons of the fingers respectively. The surface of the ligament is crossed by the palmar branches of the median and ulnar nerves; by the tendon of the palmaris longus muscle, which is attached to its surface; and by the ulnar artery and nerve, which are again bridged over and protected by a band of fibrous tissue passing from the pisiform bone and the superficial fascia to the surface of the ligament. To the lower border of the ligament are attached the palmar fascia in the centre, and the superficial muscles of the thumb and the muscles of the little finger on each side. The posterior annular ligament of the wrist is placed at a higher level