724 THE OEGANS OF SENSE. Spiral fibres Ganglion spirale Nerve fibres which pass out between the two layers of the lamina spiralis ossea Fig. 330.—Part of Cochlear Nerve, highly magnified (Henle). Corti (Fig. 5?)0). It consists of bipolar nerve-cells, and each nerve fibre, probably, has its continuity interrupted by one of these cells. Beyond the ganglion spirale the nerve fibres extend outwards, at first in bundles, and then in a more or less continuous sheet, from the outer edge of which they are again collected into bundles, which pass through the foramina nervosa of the labium tympanicum. Beyond this they appear as naked axis-cylinders, and, turning in a spiral manner (inner or first spiral fasciculus), send fibrilke towards the inner row of hair cells. Other fibrils pass outwards l)etween the inner rods and form a second spiral fasciculus in Corti's tunnel, from which fibrils extend outwards across the tunnel, and, passing between the outer rods, enter Nuel's space. They form a spiral fasciculus on the inner aspect of each row of Deiters' cells, and from these fasciculi fibrillse pass towards the bases of the outer hair cells. Scliwalbe divides the auditory nerve into three portions, viz.: (1) ramus utriculo-ampuUaris, corresponding witli the ramus vestibularis already described ; (2) ramus sacculo-ampullaris, for the saccule and posterior ampulla ; and (3) ramus cochlearis, for the ductus cochlearis. Vessels of the Internal Ear.—The auditory artery, a branch of the l)asilar, enters the internal auditory meatus and divides into vestibular and cochlear branches. The vestibular branch .sup- plies the soft tissues in the vestibule and semicircular canals, each canal receiving two arteries, which, starting from ojiposite extremities of the canal, anastomose on the summit of the arch. The cochlear branch divides into numerous twigs, which enter the foramina in the tractus spiralis foraminosus and run outwards in the lamina spiralis ossea to reach the soft structures ; the largest of these arteries runs in the canalis centralis. The stylo-niastoid artery also supplies some minute branches to the cochlea. Siebenmann describes the auditory artery as dividing into three branches, viz. : (1) anterior vestibular, (2) cochlear proper, and (3) vestibulo-cochlear. The veins from the cochlea and vestibule unite at the bottom of the meatus with the veins from the semicircular canals to form the internal auditory vein, which may either open into the posterior part of the inferior petrosal sinus or into the lateral sinus. Small veins also pass through the aqueductus coch- lere and aque- ductus vestibuli, the former open- ing into the in- ferior petrosal sinus or into the internal jugular vein, the latter into the siq^ierioi- petrosal sinus. \uditory pit f liiiul brain Recessus labyrintlii^ Semicircular canals otic vesicle Development OF Labyrinth. The epithelial lining of the labyrinth is de- rived from an in- vagination of the cephalic ecto- derm, termed the auditory pit, which appears opposite the hind brain im- mediately above the fir.st visceral cleft. The mouth of the pit is closed by the growing together of its margins, and it then assumes the form of a hollow vesicle, the otic vesicle, lined by epithelium ; the vesicle sinks into the subjacent mesoderm and is met by the auditory Rudiment of ductus cochlearis Fio. 531.—Sections throuoh the Region of the Hind Brain of Fcetal PwVbbits (to illustrate the development of the laliyrinthine epithelium). In A the epiblast is invaginated to form the auditory pit; in B the auditory pit is closed and detached from the epiblast, forming the otic vesicle ; while C show.s a furtlier stage in the development of the vesicle.