1179 THE NECK. part of the anterior jugular veins along with their transverse communicating branch, a little fat, and one or two lymphatic glands. The vascular compartment, triangular in section, is bounded anteriorly by the general fascial envelope, which splits at the onio-hyoid to enclose the depressors of the hyoid bone; posteriorly by the prevertebral fascia; internally by the visceral compartment; externally by the meeting of the prevertebral fascia and the pos- terior layer of the sterno-niastoid sheath. This compartment contains the carotid vessels, and the internal jugular vein, and the following nerves, viz.: the vagus, the first part of the hypoglossal, the descendens hypogiossi, and the upper part of the spinal accessory. The carotid chain of lymphatic glands lies in the cellular tissue which connects the various structures in the compartment; normally they may be readily separated from the sheath of the internal jugular vein, to which. Facial arterj Siibniaxillary gland Bifurcation of common carotid artery Sterno-mastoid Carotid tubercle.^ Apex of lung j. Brachial plexus Subclavian arter Acromial end of clavicle Lesser tuberosity of Immerus^ Tendon of biceps Greater tuberosity ofluuaerus -Anterior belly of digastric Hyoid bone ■Tliyroid cartilage (poiuum Adami) rico-thyroid membrane ■External jugular vein -Cricoid cartilage ithmus of thyroid gland _Sternal head of sterno-niastoid I lavicular head of sterno-mastoid -Sterno-clavicular articulation. First part axillary artery ■-ntjitiSi^ iirocess ''''' '' I llllv '1 Tricuspid valve Pulnionary valve Aortic valve Mitral valve Fifi. 799.—Anteriok A.srECT of Neck and Shoulders. however, they l)ecome adherent when inflamed. A glandular abscess in this com- partment usually points upon the surface, adhesions being formed, first, between the gland and the fascia, and, subsequently, between the latter and the cutaneous structures. In diffuse suppurative cellulitis of this compartment the pus burrows towards the root of the neck, and may reach either the mediastinum or the axilla. Middle Line of the Neck.—The Ijody of the hyoid bone divides the middle line of the neck into supra- and infra-hyoid portions. Abo\ e the hyoid bone is the sub- mental triangle, with its apex at the lower border of the symphysis menti and its sides formed by the anterior bellies of the digastrics. In the floor of the triangle are the anterior portions of the mylo-hyoid muscles, separated by the median raph(^. The most important structures in the triangle are the supra-hyoid lymphatic glands, which can usually 1)0 felt a little above the body of tln^ liyoid bone. They are a i'requeut s(>al- of abscess secondary to impetigo of the lower lip