THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. 396 oi'igins; the musculo-phrenic artery passes between the attachments to the seventh and eighth ril)s. The sympathetic cord and the splanchnic nerves pierce or pass behind the diaphragm; the last thoracic nerve passes beneath the external arcuate ligament; and the aorta, the vena azygos major and thoracic duct pass between the crura, beneath the middle arcuate ligament (aortic opening). The special foramina are two in number. The foramen quadratum in the right lobe of the central tendon transmits the inferior vena cava, and small branches of the right Vena caval openiiif; OJsDpliageal opening Central tendon (middle part) Central tendon (right ]iart) DiAPHRAOM, COSTAL FIBRrs Internal arenate ligament External arcuate ligament End of last ril Last tlioracic nerve Ant. layer of lumbar fascia Lumbar fascia , Ilio-hypogastric Lumbar vessels and symjia- tlietie communicating nerves Ilio-inguinal QUADRATUS LUMBORUM External cutaneous nent p.soas maonu.s Iliacus Lnmbci-saeral cord Genito-crural nerve Anterior crural nerve Obturator nerve Great sciatic nerve y, Ilio-inguinal 11 Quadratus fT " Diaphraqm, right crus Middle arcuate ligainen Aortic opening Central tendon (left part) Diaphragm, left CRUS Last tlioracic nerve hind of last rib liUinbar nerve I. Ilio-hypogastric Ijumbar nerve 11. LUMBORl'M ljumbar nerve III Genito-crural Lumbar nerve IV'. Lumbo-sacral cord External cutaneous nerve .Interior crural nerve obturator nerve Great sciatic nerve Fig. 291. I Obturator nerve Adductor longus (origin) Adductor brevis (origin) 1 Gracilis (origin)l Addiictor MAGNUS (origin) Pectineus (cut) Superficial branch of obturator nerye Deep brancli of obturator ner\'e Obturator externus -View of the Posterior Abdominal Wall, to show the Muscles and the Neeves of THE Lumbo-Sacral Plexus. phrenic nerve. The oesophageal opening is in the muscular substance of the diaphragm, behind the central tendon, and is surrounded by a sphincter-like arrangement of the crural fibres. Besides the oesophagus, this opening transmits the two pneumogastric nerves. The upper convex surface of the diaphragm forms the sloping floor of the thorax, and is in contact with the pleurte, and the peri- cardium (wliich is firmly bound down to the central tendon, and less firmly to the