347 THE MUSCLES OF THE BUTTOCK. adductor brevis, adductor longus, and sartorius. The deep femoral artery lies on it above. It forms the floor of Hunter's canal below, where the femoral vessels lie upon it. The hamstring muscles and great sciatic nerve are behind the ad- ductor magnus; the ob- turator externus and quadratus femoris are at its upper border; and along its inner border are the gracilis and sartorius muscles. The obturator ex- ternus is a fan-shaped muscle lying horizontally in the angle between the hip bone and the neck of the femur. It arises from the inferior half of the margin of the thyroid foramen and the corre- sponding portion of the outer surface of the ob- turator membrane. Its Origin of hamstring MUSCLES Adductor magnus Gracilis fibres converge towards the great trochanter, and end in a tendon which, after passing below and behind the hip-joint, is inserted into the digital fossa of the great trochanter. The inferior surface of the muscle is in contact with the pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor mag- nus muscles, separated from them by the internal circumflex artery. The superior surface is in con- tact with the obturator membrane and the neck of the femur. The tendon lies below and behind the capsule of. the hip-joint, and near its insertion appears in the buttock (beneath the gluteus Popliteal vessels Semitendinosus Semimembranosu (insertion) Gracilis- Sartoriui Pyriformis Obturator internus AND GEMELLI Obturator externus Quadratus femoris Gluteus maximus (insertion) liicEPS (short head) Biceps (long head) Gastrocnemius (outer head) Fig. 255.- -The Posterior Surface of the Thiqh (superficial muscles renioveil). maximus) between the inferior gemellus and quadratus femoris muscles. THE MUSCLES OF THE BUTTOCK. This group includes the three glutei muscles, the tensor fasciae femoris pyriformis, obturator internus and gemelli, and quadratus femoris. The gluteus maximus is a large quadrilateral muscle, with a crescentic origin, from (1) the dorsum ilii above the superior curved line; (2) the tendon of the erector spinse; (3) the posterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx ; and (4) the posterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The fibres of the muscle are directed obliquely outwards over the buttock, invested by the fascia lata, and are inserted partly into the fascia lata over the great trochanter of the femur (joining