THE ORGANS OF SENSE. 694 Nuclei! leiiti Fig 604.—Lens hardened in Foumalin and DISSECTKD TO SHOW ITS CONUENTHIC IjAMIN.« (enlarged). (substantia lentis) part, the substantia between the finder anterior and posterior poles, a line joining which is known as its axis (axis lentis); its periplieral circumference is named the equator (a^quator lentis). Its axial measurement is 4 mm. and its transverse diameter from 9-10 mm. Its anterior surface (facies anterior lentis) is less curved than the posterior, and its central part corresponds with the aperture of the pupil and is directed towards the anterior chamber. Around the aperture of the pupil the pupillary margin of the iris rests upon the lens, but its peripheral part is separated from it by the aqueous humour of the posterior chamber. Its posterior surface (facies posterior lentis), more convex than tlie anterior, occupies the fossa patellaris of the vitreous body. The relations of its equator to the suspen- sory ligament and tlie canal of Petit have already been referred to. The superficial part of the lens possesses a refractive index of about 1'4 and its central part or nucleus one of about 1-45. The curvatures of its surfaces, especially that of the anterior, are constantly varying durin'g life for the pur- pose of focussing rays from near or distant objects on the retina. The lens substance consists of a soft outer corticalis, easily crushed and thumi), and of a dense central part, the nucleus lentis. Faint lines (radii lentis) radiate from its anterior and posterior poles towards its equator. In the foetus they are three in number and form with each other angles of 120° (Fig. 505). J'rom the anterior pole one ray ascends vertically and the other two diverge downwards, while from the posterior pole one ray descends vertically and the otlier two diverge upwards. In the adult the rays may be increased to six or more. They represent the free edges of a corresponding number of septa, which dip into the substance of the lens, and along which the extremities of the different groups of lens fibres come into contact and are attached by a clear, amorphous substance. The lens, when hardened, exhibits a series of concentrically-arranged lauuuce (Fig. 504), superimposed like the coats of an onion and attached to each other by a clear, amorphous substance. Eacli lamina is split along the radiat- ing lines and consists of a series of hexagonal, riband-like fibres, the tibrse lentis, which are ad- herent to eacli other by their margins; those of the deeper laniiuie are smaller and serrated, but non-nucleated; while those of the superficial coats are larger and nucleated, but non-serrated. The fibres extend in a curved manner from the rays on the anterior surface to the rays on the posterior surface, but no fibre extends from pole to pole. Fibres which start at or near one pole end at or near the equator on the opposite surface, and vice versa, while the interveiiing fibres take up inter- mediate positions. Between the substantia lentis and the anterior part of the capsule there is a layer of nucleated columnar epithelial cells, the epithelium lentis. On being traced towards the equator its cells become gradually elongated and transformed into lens fibres, which, when fully formed, lose all trace of their nuclei, except in the more superficial lamina?. Each lens fibre represents, therefore, a greatly elongated columnar cell (Fig. 506). In the foetus the lens is soft, of a pinkish colour, and nearly spherical; while in old age it becomes more flattened than in the adult, and, losing its transparency, assumes a yellowisli tint. Fin. r,0:i . —Dl AI i I! A M M ATIC liErit KSEXTATION Lentis of the Fcetal Lens. A, Seen from the front ; B, From beliiiu THE Radii