THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 852 usuciUy terminates by two branches; behind and above it communicates with the vesical plexus, and receives tributaries from the seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia. One or more efferent vessels pass from it on each side and open into the corresponding internal iliac vein. The inferior vesical plexus of the female, which represents the prostatico-vesical plexus of the male, surrounds tlie upper part of the urethra and the neck of the bladder. It receives the dorsal vein of the clitoris, and its efferent vessels terminate in tlie internal iliac vein. Dorsal Veins of the Penis (w. dorsales penis).—There are two dorsal veins of the penis—the superficial and the deep. The superficial dorsal vein receives tributaries from the prepuce, and runs backwards immediately beneath the skin to the symphysis, where it divides into two branches which terminate in the superficial external pudic veins. The deep dorsal vein lies on the dorsum of the penis beneath the deep fascia. It commences in the sulcus behind the glans, by the union of numerous tributaries from the glans and the anterior parts of the corpora cavernosa, and runs backwards in the mid- dorsal line, in the sulcus between the corpora cavernosa, from which it receives many additional tributaries. At the root of the penis the vein passes between the two layers of the suspensory ligament, and then between the subpubic ligament and the deep transverse ligament of the perineum, thus reaching the space between the two layers of the triangular ligament, where it lies above -the membranous part of the urethra, and is enclosed in some of the fibres of the compressor urethrne. Passing through the posterior layer of the tri- angular ligament, it enters the pelvis, and terminates, usually by two branches, in the prostatico-vesical plexus. The dorsal vein of the clitoris in the female has a similar course to that of the deep dorsal vein of the penis in the male. It terminates in the inferior vesical plexus. THE VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The veins of the lower extremity, like those of the upper extremity, are arranged in two groups, the superficial and the deep, and in the lower as in the upper limb the deep veins are associated with the arteries as venje comites, whilst the super- ficial veins, which lie in the subcutaneous tissues, ultimately terminate in the deep veins. There is, therefore, a general similarity in the arrangement of the veins of the upper and the lower limbs, but there are differences in the details of the arrange- ment which are of some importance. Thus in the upper extremity there are two deep veins with each artery from the fingers to the root of the limb, where a single trunk, the axillary vein, is formed; but in the lower extremity each main artery has two vense comites only as far as the middle of the limb, where a single trunk is formed. This vessel, the popliteal vein, is the commencement of the main venous stein of the lower extremity ; it is continued upwards through the thigh as the femoral vein, and along the brim, of the pelvis as the external iliac vein, which terminates by uniting with the internal iliac vein to form" the common iUac vein. Further, the superficial veins of the upper limb are more numerous than those of the lower limb, for in the forearm there are four main superficial veins, and in the leg two ; in the arm two main superficial veins, and in the thigh only one. In the upper limb the blood which passes through the superficial veins is poured into the efferent trunk vein at the root of the limb, that is, into the axiUary vein; but in the lower limb the blood from the superficies of the outer parts of the leg and foot passes into the commencement of the main efferent vein, the popliteal vein, at the middle of the limb, that is, in the region of the knee, whilst the blood from the superficial parts of the inner aspect of the lower limb is poured into tlie femoral vein near the root of the limb in the upper part of Scarpa's triangle. In addition to the aljove-inentioned differences in the general arrangement of the veins of the upper and the lower extremities, it must also be noted that in the upper extremity all the blood of the limb, both that from the shoulder-girdle region as well as that from the projecting portion of the limb, is returned to the main efferent venous trunk ; but in the lower extremity the greater part of the blood from the region of the pelvic girdle, and a considerable portion from that of the thigh, is returned by the gluteal, obturator, sciatic, and pudic veins to the internal iliac vein, which in the adult is not the main efferent vein of the lower extremity.