INTERNAL STRUCTUEE OF THE PONS VAROLII. 465 Upon the inner and dorsal aspect of the superior olive there is a dense group of longitudinal dbres. These constitute the central tegmental tract; but as j)i'ecise information in regard to its connexions is still to a large extent wanting, it is not necessary to do more than indicate its fiosition. (4) The posterior longitudinal bundle and the fillet come next. As they proceed upwards through the tegmental part of the pons, these longitudinal tracts occupy the same relative position as in the medulla. They are placed close to the median raphe; but they have drawn further apart, from each other, and their fibres are more distinctly concentrated into separate strands, with an interval of some little width between them. The posterior longitudinal bundle lies immediately under cover of the gray matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The fillet is placed close to the trapezial fibres, many of which traverse it as they pass towards the mesial plane. (5) The nucleus of the sixth nerve also forms a conspicuous object in sections through the lower part of the pons. It is a round mass of gray matter, which lies close to the outer side of the posterior longitudinal bundle, and immediately under cover of the gray matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle. From its inner side numerous root - bundles of the sixth nerve pass out and proceed forwards between the fillet and the superior olivary nucleus. They occupy in the pons, therefore, a position similar to that occupied by the hypoglossal root-fibres in the medulla. LTp to the present only the lower part of the tegmental portion of the pons has been described, i.e. the portion immediately adjoining the medulla. As we proceed upwards and gain a point above the level of the trapezial fibres, many of Superior medullary ■velum Fig. 345.—Tkansveese Section through the Pons Varolii at the Level op the Nuclei op THE Trigeminal Nerve (Oraug). the structures which have attracted attention lower down gradually disappear from the formatio reticularis. The posterior longitudinal bundle, the fillet, and the spinal root of the fifth nerve, however, are still carried upwards. Further, the