THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 508 from the buccal cavity. Its connexion with the latter is soon cut off, and it becomes encased witliin the cranial cavity in intimate association with the cerebral portion of the organ. Structurally, it consists of tubules or alveoli, lined by epithelial cells and snrrounded by capillary vessels. Its structure is not unlike that of the thyroid body, and possibly it exercises a similar function. In giants, and in cases of acromegaly, the pituitary body is usually greatly enlarged. ForaniPi! of Monro Anterior conimissnn Ventricle III. Corpus niainmillaie Subarachnoid tis.sue in cisterna basalis -Infundibnluin Pituitary body ('isterna jiontis Basi-i)eci))ital Sphenoidal sinus Fig. 377.—Mesial Section through the PiTurrARV Kegion IN the Adui.t. Lamina Cinerea.—This is a thin lamina which passes upwards from the optic chiasma in the great longitudinal fissure to be- come connected with the rostrum of the corpus callosum. Anterior Commissure of the Cerebrum. — In the anterior part of the cleft, between the two optic thalami and immediately in front of the anterior pillars of the fornix, a round bundle of fibres ci'osses the mesial plane. This is the anterior commissure. It is much larger than the posterior com- missure. Third Ventricle (ventriculus tertius).—This is the narrow cleft which separates the two optic thalami. Its depth rapidly increases from behind for- wards, and it may be said to extend from the pineal body behind to the lamina cinerea in front. Its floor is formed by the structures already studied within the area of the interpeduncular space on the base of the brain, viz. the tuber cinereum, the corpora mammillaria, the gray matter of the locus perforatus posticus, and also to some extent behind this by the tegmenta of the crura cerebri. It is interesting to note that the central gray matter which surrounds the Sylvian aqueduct is directly continuous with the gray matter of the locus perforatus posti- cus and tuber cinereum, and in this way it comes to the surface in the base of the brain. The optic chiasma crosses the floor in front and marks the place where the latter becomes continuous with the anterior wall of the cavity. The front vmll of the third ventricle is formed by the lamina cinerea, which extends upwards from the optic chiasma. The anterior commissure, as it crosses from one side to the other, projects into the ventricle, but of course it is excluded from the cavity by the ventricular epithelial lining. It may be taken as indicating the place where the roof joins the anterior wall. The roof of the third ventricle is formed by a thin epithelial layer, continuous with the thin epithelial lining of the cavity, which stretches across the mesial plane from one tsenia thalami to the other. Applied to the upper surface of the epithelial roof is the fold of pia mater, termed the velum interpositum, and the roof is invaginated into the cavity along its whole length by two delicate choroid plexuses, which hang down from the under surface of this fold. When the velum interpositum is removed the thin epithelial roof is torn away with it, leaving only the lines of attachment in the shape of tlie tasnia thalami. The lateral wall of the third ventricle is formed for the greater part of its extent by the inner surface of the optic thalamus, covered by a thick layer of central gray matter continuous with the Sylvian gray matter of the mesencephalon. A little in front of the middle of the ventricle the cavity is crossed by the middle or soft commissure, which connects the thalami with each other, and in front of this the anterior pillar of the fornix is seen curving downwards and backwards in the lateral wall. At first the bulging which it forms is distinctly prominent, but it