THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1030 In the fccUis and c.liild, as well as in the adnlt with the infantile type of c<T.cniii, the a]ipendix springs from the true apex, not from the inner and ])osterior aspect. Foi'eign l)odies, although rei)ute(l to find theii- way very easily into the ajjpendix, are rarely found there after death. On the other hand, concretions or calculi, formed of mucus, faices, and •\'arious salts, are often present (Berry). Structure (Fig-. G97).—Tlie serous coat is complete, and forms a perfect investment for the process. The muscular coat, unlike that of the rest of the large intestine, has a continuous and stout layer of longitudinal fibres, which passes at the root of the process into the three tasnife coli (Fig- 698). The layer of circular fibres is well developed. The submucosa is almost entirely occupied by large masses of lymphoid tissue surrounded by sinus-like lymph spaces. Owing to the large size of these lymphoid nodules, the areolar tissue of the submucosa is compressed against the inner surface of the muscular coat, and forms a well-marked fibi'ous ring, which sends processes at intervals between the lymphoid masses towards the mucous membrane. The inner portion of this fibrous ring seems to have been generally mistaken for the muscularis mucosae, which latter, as seen in Fig. 697, lies internal to the chief masses of lymphoid tissue, and not outside it, as figured by Testut. These lymphoid nodule.s, which correspond to solitary glands, have, owing to B Fig. 697.—Structure of thk Vermiform Appendix. A. From a child two years old. B. From a male, age 56. It will be oUserved that the .submucosa is almost entirely occupied by lymphoid nodules and patches. The muscularis inucosic is very faint, and lie;s quite close to the bases of Lieberkiihn's glands. The longi- tudinal layer of muscular fibres forms a continuous sheet. their great number, been almost completely crushed out of the mucosa (in which they chiefly lie in the intestine) into the submucosa. The mucous coat corresponds to that of' the large intestine in its general characters, but the Lieberkiihn's glands are fewer, and irregular in their dii'cction ; the muscularis mucosae is thin and ill-defined ; it lies just intei'ual to the lymphoid nodules of the sub- mucosa, and immediately outside the base of Lieberkiihn's glands. Some few lymphoid nodules lie in the mucous coat also. Blood-vessels of the Caecum and Vermiform Appendix (Fig. 696).—These parts are supplied with Wood by the ileo-csecal artery. This gi\'es off, near the upper angle formed by the junction of the ileum with the small intestine—(«) an anterior ca'cal artery, which passes down on the front of the ileo-ca'cal junction to the cajcum, and breaks u]) into numerous branches for the supi)ly of that part; (b) a posterior caral artery, similarly disposed on the back ; and (c) the artenj of the ap'pendix. The last-named branch passes down l)ehind the ileum (Fig. 696), then enters the mesentery of the ajjpendix, and running along this near its free border, sends off several branches across the little mesentery to the ap])endix, before finally ending in it. The course of the artery behind the ileum is said to render it subject to pres.sure from fecal masse.s in that gut, and thus to predisjiose to an interference with the supply of the appendix, and morbid changes in the i)rocess. It has also been said that the appendix receives a small branch from the left ovarian artery in the female—a statement which I have been unable to vei-ify. The veins eori-esi)ond to the arteries. The lymphatics pass with the vessels to join a few small glands which are found in the mesentery of the ajjjjendix at its base, the effei'ent vessels from whii'h join the mesocolic glands behind the ascending colon. Caecal Folds and Fossae.—The peritoneum forms in the neighbourhood of the