VEETEBEAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE. 87 As viewed from the side, the bodies display a gradual increase in their antero- posterior width until the second lumbar vertebra is reached, below which this diameter is slightly reduced. In the sacral region the reduction in this diameter is great in the first and second sacral segments, more gradual and less marked in the last three segments. The facets for the heads of the ribs in the upper thoracic region lie on the sides of the bodies; those for the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth are placed further back on the pedicles. The intervertebral foramina increase in size from above downwards on the movable part of the column, being largest in the lumbar region. In the sacral region they decrease in size from above downwards. In the cervical region the two highest cervical nerves pass out behind the articular processes of the atlas and axis, and lie, therefore, behind the corresponding transverse processes of these A'-ertebrse. The succeeding cervical nerves pass out through the intervertebral foramina which are placed between the transverse processes and in front of the articular processes. In the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae the intervertebral foramina lie in front of both the articular and transverse processes. The arrange- ment of these foramina in the sacrum has been already sufficiently explained. The neural canal for the lodgment of the spinal cord and its meninges is largest in the cervical and lumbar regions, in both of which it assumes a triangular form; whilst it is narrow and circular in the thoracic region. These facts are correlated with the movements of the column which are most free in those regions where the canal is largest, i.e. the neck and loins. The average length of the vertebral cokimn is from 70 to 73 centimetres, or from 27-| to 28| inches. Of this the cervical part measures from 13 to 14 cm.; the thoracic, 27 to 29 cm.; lumbar, 17 to 18 cm. ; atad the sacro-coccjgeal, 12 to 15 cm. The individual differences in the length of the column are less than one might expect, the variation in height of different individuals being ofteti largely dependent on the length of the lower limbs. In the female the average length of the column is about 60 centimetres, or 23f inches, and the curve in the lumbar region is usually more pronounced. Architecture.—The vertebrae are formed of spongy bone confined within a thin and dense envelope. In the Lodies the arrangement of the cancellous tissue, which is traversed by venous channels, is such as to display a vertical striation with lamellfe arranged horizontally. The external, superior, and inferior walls are very thin—that directed to the neural canal being usually thicker and denser than the others. In the pedicles and roots of the transverse processes the cancellous tissue is much more open. The outer envelope is much thicker where it hounds the neural ring, and where it forms the bottom of the superior and inferior intervertebral notches. In the laminae the spongy tissue is confined between two compact layers, of which that directed to the spinal canal is the thicker. In the spinou* processes the upper edge is always the more compact. Variations.—Numerical Variations of the Column as a Whole.—Increase in the number of vertebral segments is usually due to differences in the numlier of the coccygeal vertebrte ; these may vary from four—which may be regarded as the normal number—to six. The numlier of presacral or movable vertebrae is normally 24 (7 C, 12 D, and 5 L). This number may be in- creased by the intercalation of a segment either in the thoracic or lumbar region without any alteration in the number of the sacral or coccygeal elements : thus we may have 7 C, 13 D, and 5 L, or 7 C, 12 D, and 6 L, or may be reduced by the disappearance of a vertebral segment—thus, 7 C, 12 D, and 4 L. Such an arrangement presupposes developmental errors either of excess or default in the segmentation of the column. On the other hand, the total number of vertebral segments remaining the same (24 or 25), we may have variations in the number of those assigned to different regions due to the addition of a vertebral segment to one, and its consequent sub- traction from another region. Thus, in the 24 presacral vertebrse, in cases of the occurrence of cervical ribs the formula is rearranged thus—6 C, 13 D, and 5 L, or, in the case of a thirteenth rib being present, the formula would be 7 C, 13 D, 4 L, as happens normally in the gorilla and chimpanzee. Similarly, the number of the presacral vertebrae (24) may be increased by the withdrawal of a segment from the sacral region—7 C, 12 D, 6 L, and 4 S—or diminished by an increase in the number of the sacral vertebrae, as in the formula 7 C, 12 D, 4 L, and 6 S. In- crease in the number of sacral segments may be due to fusion with a lumbar vertebras, or by the addition of a coccygeal element: the latter is more frequently the case. This variability in the constitution of the sacrum is necessarily correlated with a shifting backwards and forwards of the pelvic girdle along the vertebral column. Rosenburg considers that the 26th, 27th, and 28th vertebrae are the primitive sacral segments, and that the sacral characters of the 25th vertebrte (the first sacral segment in the normal adult column) are only secondarily acquired. He thus supposes that during development there is a forward shifting of the sacrum and pelvic girdle, with a consequent reduction in the length of the presacral portion of the column. This view is opposed by Paterson {Eoy. Dublin Soc. Scientific Trans, vol. v. Ser. II.), who found that ossification took j)lace in the alae of the 25th vertebra (first adult sacral segment) before it made its appear-