915 INTEKIOK OF THE LAKYNX. Epislotti Hyoid bone bounded by the arytenoid cartilage and the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, whilst on the outer side it is limited by the inner surface of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, clothed l^y the pharyngeal mucous membrane. Upper Subdivision of the Laryngeal Cavity (vestibulum laryngis). — The upper subdivision of the laryngeal cavity extends from the superior opening of the larynx down to the false vocal cords. In its lower part it exhibits a marked lateral com- pression. Its width, therefore, diminishes from above downwards, whilst, owing to the obliquity of the upper aperture of the larynx, its depth rapidly diminishes from before backwards. In front it is bounded by the posterior surface of the epiglottis, clothed by mucous membrane. This wall descends obliquely from above down- wards and forwards, and becomes narrower as it approaches the anterior ends of the false vocal cords. The upper part of the posterior surface of the epiglottis is convex, owing to the manner in which the upper margin is curved forwards towards the tongue; below this there is a slight concavity, and still lower a marked bulg- ing or convexity over the upper part of the thyro-epiglottidean ligament. This swelling is called the cushion or tubercle of the epiglottis (tuberculum epiglotticum), and it forms a con- spicuous object in laryngoscopic examinations of the larynx*. The lateral wall of the upper compartment or vestibule of the larynx is formed by the inner surface of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. For the most part it is smooth and slightly concave, and it diminishes considerably in vertical depth as it passes backwards. In its posterior part the mucous membrane stands out in two elongated vertical elevations placed one behind the other (Fig. 618, p. 916). The anterior elevation is formed by the subjacent cuneiform cartilage with the mass of glands associated with it; the posterior elevation is produced by the anterior margin. of the arytenoid cartilage and the cartilage of Santorini. A shallow groove (filtrum ventriculi of Merkel) descends between these rounded elevations, and terminates below by running into the interval between the false and true vocal cords. The anterior elevation comes to an end below in the posterior extremity of the false vocal cord; the arytenoid or posterior elevation, in its inferior part, bends round the hinder end of the ventricle of the larynx and becomes lost in the true vocal cord. The posterior uiall of the laryngeal vestibule is narrow, and corresponds to the interval between the upper parts of the two arytenoid cartilages. Its width, to a large extent, depends on the position of these cartilages, and when they are placed near each other the mucous membrane which covers this wall is thrown into longitudinal folds. Middle Subdivision of the Laryngeal Cavity.—The middle compartment of the larynx is much the smallest of the three. It is bounded above by the false vocal cords and below by the true vocal cords, whilst it communicates between these folds with the vestibule on the one hand and the inferior compartment of the larynx on the other. The false vocal cords (plicse ventriculares) are two prominent mucous folds which extend from before backwards on the side walls of the laryngeal cavity. In front they reach the angle between the two alee of the thyroid cartilage, but behind they do not extend so far as the posterior wall of the larynx. They come to an end on each side at the lower end of the elongated swelling produced by cuneiform cartilage. The false vocal cord is soft and somewhat flaccid, and presents a free border which is slightly arched—the concavity looking downwards. Within the fold of mucous membrane which forms this cord are contained: (1) the feeble 58 a Fiu. 617.—Coronal Section thuough Larynx, to show its three compartments.