THE CEEEBELLUM. 467 The posterior longitudinal bundle, as it is traced upwards through the tegmental part of the pons, maintains the same position throughout, and as it ascends it becomes more clearly mapped out as a definite and distinct tract. It lies close to the mesial raphe and immediately subjacent to the gray matter of the floor of tlie fourth ventricle. The fillet as it ascends through the tegmental part of the pons undergoes striking changes in shape. In the lower portion of the pons its fibres, which in the medulla are spread out along the side of the median raphe, are collected ■together in the form of a loose bundle, which occupies a wide field, somewhat triangular in shape, on either side of the median raphe and immediately l)ehind Upper end of ventricle IV, Trochlear nerve Jfesencephalic root of htth nerve - Gowers tract Posterior longi-^ y tudinal bundle^ Superior cere- bellar peduncle Lateral fillet ^lJ^ Forinatio_Jl reticularis Mesial HUet Inferior quadri- geniinal body Decussation of trochlear nerves Upper end of ventricle IV. ^Superior cere- bellar peduncle Posterior longi- tudinal bundle Lateral fillet Mesial Hllet Fig. 347.—Two Sections through the Tegmentum op the Pons at its Upper Part, close to THE Mesencephalon. A is at a slightly lower level than B. the ventral portion of the pons. As it proceeds up, the fibres spread out laterally until a compact ribbon-like layer is formed in the interval between the tegmental and ventral portions of the pons. This constitutes what is termed the mesial fillet (Figs. 346 and ;:!47). Above the level of the trigeminal nuclei another flattened layer of fibres comes into view to the outer side of the mesial fillet. To this the name of lateral fillet is given. These fibres spread outwards and backwards, and finally take up a position on the outer surface of the superior cerebellar peduncle. In the angle between the mesial and lateral fillets a little knot of compact gray matter, termed the lateral fillet nucleus, comes into view (Fig. 346). This appears to be in more or less direct continuity with the superior olivary nucleus. Many of the fibres of the lateral fillet take origin in this nucleus. Bruce has called attention to the continuity between the superior olive and the lateral fillet nucleus in man, and the writer can confirm his statement in so far as the orang; brain is concerned. THE CEREBELLUM. The cerebellum lies behind the pons Varolii and the medulla oblongata, and below the hinder portions of the cerebral hemispheres, from which it is separated by the intervening partition of dura mater, termed the tentorium cerebelli. It is distinguished by the numerous parallel and more or less curved sulci, which traverse its surface and give it a foliated or laminated appearance. It is composed of a cortex of gray matter (substantia corticalis) spread over its surface, with white matter in the interior, forming a central core (corpus meduUare). In the cerebellum we recognise a median portion termed the vermis, and two much larger lateral portions, called the lateral hemispheres (hemisphairia cerebelli). The demarcation between these main subdivisions of the organ is not very evident from every point of view. In front, and also behind, there is a marked deficiency