778 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. which is separated from it by the layer of deep cervical fascia which binds the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid to the posterior border of the subclavian groove. More superficially the third part of the artery is covered by the superficial layer of the deep fascia, the descending clavicular branches of the cervical nerves, the platysma, and the skin. Branches oe the Subclavian Artery. (1) The vertebral artery is distril)uted almost entirely to the head and neck, and its chief function is to supply the posterior part of the brain. Its description has therefore been given with that of the other cerebral arteries (see p. 773). (2) Thyroid Axis (truncus thyreo-cervicalis, Figs. 552 and 554).—This branch arises close to the inner border of the scalenus anticus, and directly above the origin of the internal mammary artery, from the upper and front part of the subclavian artery. After a short upward course of al)Out two lines (4 mm.), it ends under cover of the internal jugular vein by dividing into three branches—viz. the inferior thyroid, the transverse cervical, aiul the suprascapular. (A) The inferior thyroid artery (a. thyreoidea inferior, Eig. 552) ascends along the anterior border of the scalenus anticus, and turns inwards opposite the cricoid cartilage to the middle of the posterior border of the lateral lobe of the thyroid body; it then curves inwards and downwards, and descends to the lower end of the lolie, where it divides into ascending and inferior terminal liranches. Relations.—Behind it is the vertebral artery externally and the longus colli muscle internally ; the recurrent laryngeal nerve passes either in front of or behind the vessel, opposite the lower border of the thyroid body. It is covered in front by the carotid sheath, which contains the common carotid artery, the into'nal jugular vein, and the vagus nerve ; the middle cervical ganglion of the s^'uipathetic lies in front of the artery as it bends inwards, and on the left side the thoracic duct also passes in front of it. Branches.—It gives off the following branches :— (") Muscular.—Numerous small branches pass to the scalenus anticus, the longus colli, the infra-liyoid muscles, and the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. (Jj) The ascending cervical branch (a. cervicalis ascendens) usually springs from the inferior thyroid near its origin, though not uncommonly it rises separately from the thyroid axis. It ascends parallel with and internal to the phrenic nerve, in the angle between the rectus capitis anticus major and the scalenus anticus, to both of wiiich it gives branches. It also gives off spinal branches which pass through the intervertebral foramina to the spinal canal, and it anastomoses with bi-anches of the vertebral, occipital, ascending pharyngeal, and deep cervical arteries. (c) (Esophageal (rami oesophagei) are small branches given to the walls of the cosophagus, which anastomose with the oesophageal branches of thCj^thoracic aorta. \d) Tracheal branches (rami tracheales) are distributed to the trachea; they anasto- mose with In'anches of the superior thyroid and with the bronchial arteries. (e) An inferior laryngeal branch (a. laryngea inferior) accompanies the recurrent laryngeal nerve to the lower part of the larynx. It enters the laiynx, beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor, gives branches to its muscles and mucous membrane, and anastomoses with the laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid. (/) The ascending terminal branch supplies the posterior and lower part of the thyroid body, and anastomoses with branches of the superior thyroid artery. {g) The inferior terminal branch is distributed to the lower and inner part of the thyroid body. It anastomoses with its fello\y of the opposite side and with brunches of the superior thyroid artery. (B) The transverse cervical artery (a. transversa colli, Figs. 552 and 554) runs upwards, outwards, and backwards from the thyroid axis across the posterior triangle of the neck to the anterior border of the trapezius, where it divides into superhcial cervical (ramus ascendens) and posterior scapular (ramus descendens) 1 tranches. It is very variable in size, and not infreqtiently the posterior scapular arises separately from the third part of the subclavian. Immediately after its origin, under cover of the internal jugular vein, it crosses the scalenus anticus, lying superficial to the phrenic nerve and under cover of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; on the left side it is also crossed superficially by the terminal part of tlie tlioracic duct. Passing from Iteneath tlie sterno-mastoid, it enters the