THE ARTICULATIONS OR JOINTS. last lumbar vertebra, downwards and slightly outwards, to the front of the lateral aspect of the ala of the sacrum, close to the sacro-iliac joint. Further, a variable membranous band extends between the lateral aspect of the lower part of the body of the last lumbar vertebra and the front of the ala of the sacrum. This band lies in front of the anterior primary division of the fifth lumbar nerve. SACRO-ILIAC JOINT. Anterior common ligament Tlio-lumbar ligaments Inferior ilio-lunibar ligament Lnmbo sacral ment Anterior ' sacro- iliac Great sacr( sciatic ligamei ligament Each innominate bone articulates with the sacral section of the spinal column on each side through the intervention of a diarthrosis, termed the sacro-iliac joint (articulatio sacroiliaca). This joint is formed between the contiguous auricular surfaces of the sacrum and ilium. Each of these surfaces is more or less completely clothed by hyaline articular cartilage. The joint-cavity, which is little more than a capillary interval, may be crossed by fibrous bands. The joint-cavity is surrounded by ligaments of varying thickness and strength, which constitute its capsule. Thus the anterior part of the investing capsule is^ thin, and con- sists of short but strong fibres which pass between adjoining sur- faces on the ala of the sacrum and the iliac fossa of the inn om inate bone; they form the anterior sacro- iliac ligament (lig. sacro-ilia- cum aiiterius, Fig. 219). On the posterior aspect there are two liga- ments. The short poaterior sacro-iliac liga- ment (lig- saero-iliacum posterius breve. Fig. 220) consists of numerous strong fasciculi, which pass from the rough area on the inner aspect of the ilium, above and behind its auricular surface, downwards and inwards to the transverse tubercles and the depressions behind the first and second segments of the sacrum. This ligament is of great strength, and with its fellow it is responsible for suspending the sacrum and the weight of the superimposed trunk from the innominate bones. The long or oblique posterior sacro-iliac ligament (lig. sacro-iliacum posterius longum. Fig. 220) is a superficial thickened portion of the preceding ligament. It consists of a definite band of fibres passing from the postero-superior iliac spine to the transverse tubercles of the third and fourth segments of the sacrum. The synovial cavity of this joint is very imperfect and rudimentary. Several accessory ligaments are associated with the articulation of the in- nominate bone to the sacral section of the spinal column. The ilio-lumbar ligament (lig. ilio-lumbale. Fig. 219), which is merely the thickened anterior lamina of the fascia luniborum, extends from the tip of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra, almost horizontally outwards, to the inner lip of the iliac crest at a point a short distance behind its highest level. Fio. 219.—Pelvic Joints as seen prom the Peont.