ABNOEMALITIES OF AETEEIES. 901 The Arteries of the Upper Limb. Subclavian Arteries.—The variations, so far as regards tlie origins of the subclavian arteries, have already been mentioned (p. 897). Other interesting nioditications are met with in respect of its position and branches. The suljclavian artery may rise as high as one or even one-and-a-half inches above the clavicle, though as a rule it does not reach higher than three-quarters of an inch above that bone. On the other hand, it may not rise even to the level of the upper border of the clavicle. These differences appear to be associated with the descent of the clavicle and sternum, which occurs as age increases. The artery may pass in front of or through the scalenus anticus instead of behind it, or the vein may accompany it behind the muscle. The branches of the subclavian artery may be modified with reference to their points of origin ; thus those of tlie first part may be further in or out than usual, the suprascapular or some other Ijranch of the thyroid axis may arise separately from the third part of the artery, and not uncommonly the jjosterior scapular artery is a branch of this part. The abnormalities of the vertebral Ijranch have already lieen described ; those of the thyroid axis and its l)ranches are numerous but not important. The internal mammary artery, usually a branch of the first j^art of the sidjclavian, is very variable as regards its origin. It may arise from the second or third parts, or from the thyroid axis, or it may spring from the aorta, or from the innominate or axillary arteries. All these variations are due to oljliteration of the normal origin and the opening up of anastomoses. The internal mammary artery sometinres descends in front of the cartilages of one or more of the lower true ribs, and occasionally it gives off a large lateral branch (a. mammaria lateralis) which descends on the inner side of the chest wall nearly in the mid-axillary line, a point of importance in paracentesis. A few cases have also been noticed in which a bronchial artery has arisen from the internal mammary. The superior intercostal branch of the subclavian may be aljsent. In any case its deejj cervical branch may rise directly from the subclavian trunk. The superior intercostal is some- times formed from a postcostal instead of a precostal primitive channel, and in this, case it passes between the necks of the ribs and the transverse processes of the vertebras instead of, as usual, in front of the necks of the ribs. The axillary artery does not vary much as regards its origin or course. Its relations may be modified by the existence of a muscular or tendinous " axillary arch," which, passing from the latissimus dorsi to the pectoralis major, crosses the lower part of the artery superficially; and a further interesting modification is associated with an anomalous arrangement of its branches. Occasionally the sub-scapular, circumflex, and superior and inferior profunda arteries arise from the axillary l>y a common stem. In these cases the chief branches of the brachial plexus are grouped round the common stem instead of round the main trunk, and it is suggested that the common stem in question was originally the trunk artery of the upper limh, the lower p)art of which has been obliterated, the circulation being carried on by a vas aberrans which anastomoses Vielow either with the Ijrachial artery or with one of the arteries of the forearm. It is also said that a rudiment of this artery exists in a muscular branch which passes between the heads of the median nerve. Sometimes the axillary artery divides into the radial and ulnar arteries, and more rarely the interosseous artery may spring from it. Obviously when the radial and ulnar arteries are formed by the division of the axillary, there is no lirachial artery ; its place is taken by the two abnormal vessels which, as a rule, are se])arated hy the median nerve as they run through the upper arm.; the radial is usually more superficial than the ulnar, and crosses outwards in front of it at the bend of the elbow. The brachial artery is rai'ely prolonged beyond its usual point of bifurcation, not uncommonly, however, it l)ifurcates at a higher leveL Of the two ternanal branches of the brachial, one may divide into radial and interosseous, the other forming the ulnar; or one may divide into radial and ulnar, whilst the other is the interosseous artery. Occasionally the brachial artery ter- minates by di^'iding into three branches—viz. the radial, the ulnar, and the interosseous. In any case, the branch which gives origin to or becomes the interosseous was in all probability the original trunk. Division of the brachial artery at a higher level than usual occurs most commonly in the upper third of the arm, and least commonly in the lower third ; the resulting trunks are often united near the bend of the elbow by a more or less oblique anastomosis. In cases of high division of the brachial artery the radial branch may pierce the deep fascia of the arm near the bend of the elbow, and descend in the forearm immediately beneath the skin; in other cases the radial runs deeper, and passes behind the tendon of the biceps. The ulnar Ijranch sometimes runs, on the internal intermuscular septum, towards the inner condyle, and then outwards towards the middle of the bend of the elbow under a l^and of fascia, from which the upper fibres of the pronator teres arise, or round the supracondylar process of the humerus if it is present. More commonly the ulnar branch descends towards the inner condyle, and crosses sujDerficial to the flexor muscles or Ijeneath the palmaris longus ; and in a few cases it is subcutaneous. Very occasionally the ulnar artery accompanies the ulnar nerve behind the inner condyle ; in these cases it has obviously been formed by enlargement of the ordinary inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries.