20 GENEEAL EMBEYOLOGY. which are continuous in front of the groove but separate behind, where they embrace the anterior end of the primitive streak. The neural groove increases in length both in front and behind. The backward increase takes place at the expense of the primitive streak, whilst the anterior increase is due to the rapid growth of the anterior part of the embryonic area ; at the same time, not because of, though coincident with, an increase of the mesoderm which has grown beneath them, the medullary folds are gradually elevated, and their apices bending inwards unite together over the neural gi'oove, which is thus converted into a tube or canal —the neural tube. Along the line of union the neural tube is connected, for a time, with the surface ectoderm by a ridge of cells, the neural crest. The crest soon separates PS BG GC SB NC CC SC IMC N PA Fig. 14.—Transverse Section ok Ferret EiiBRTCf. Showing the closure of the neural groove, the formation of the neural crest, tlie outgrowth of the spinal ganglia, the commencement of the separation of the paraxial mesoderm from the lateral plates, and the differentiation of the intermediate cell mass. C. Cojlom. GC. Germinal cell. PA. Primitive aorta. SG. Spinal ganglion. CC. Central canal. IMC. Intermediate cell mass. PS. Protovertebral somite. SoM. Somatic mesoderm. EC. Ectoderm. N. Notochord. SB. Spongioblast. SoP. Somatopleure. EN. Entoderm. NC. Neural crest. SC. Spinal cord. SpM. Splanchnic mesoderm. SpP. Splanchnopleure. from the surface, but it remains connected with the neural tube and is utilised in the formation of the cranial and spinal nerve ganglia, whilst the walls of the neural tube are converted into the nervous and sustentacular tissue elements of the whole of the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord). Before the tube is closed the neural groove is dilated at each end (see Fig. 18). The posterior dilatation is single; it constitutes the rhomboidal sinus, which under ordinary circumstances soon disappears. Anteriorly, numerous dilatations are distinguishable at first. The exact number of these dilatations (neuromeres) is said to be eleven. As the tube closes tliey resolve themselves into three distinct vesicles termed the primary cerebral vesicles. These constitute the rudiments of the fore, mid, and hind brains, and their respective ventricular cavities. The remainder of the cavity of the tube becomes the central canal of the spinal cord. After the separation of the neural crest from the surface, the mesoderm com- pletely surrounds the whole of the neural tube, and from it are formed the membranes of the brain and spinal cord and their skeletal environments. The ectodermal cells which form the wall of the primitive neural tube are ill- defined, but they soon differentiate into two sets, spongioblasts and germinal cells. The spongioblasts are the more numerous, they are columnar in form, and all extend from an internal limiting meml^rane which is developed round the peri- pheiy of the central canal, to an external limiting membrane which forms the outer limit of the neural tube. There is frequently considerable difficulty in recognising their columnar character, even in the early stages, partly because their nuclei du not all lie at the same level, and partly because they are so closely apposed. The spongioblasts are converted into the sustentacular tissue, or myelospongium, of the brain and spinal cord, but all do not undergo precisely the same transformations. The inner portions of those spongioblasts whose nuclei lie near the central canal retain a colunmar form, and cilia grow from their free surfaces into the lumen of the canal; in other words, they are converted into the ciliated epithelium of the central canal,