236 OSTEOLOGY. The Os Calcis. The OS calcis (calcaneus) is the largest of the tarsal bones. It supports the astragalus above and articulates with the cuboid in front. Inferiorly and behind, its posterior extremity or tuberosity forms the heel on which so large a proportion of the body weight rests. The long axis of the bone inclines forwards and a little outwards. The upper surface of the os calcis is divisible into two parts—a posterior non- articular part and an anterior articular portion. The length of the former varies according to the projection of the heel; rounded from side to side, it is slightly con- cave from before backwards. In front of this there is a convex articular area of variable shape (facies articularis posterior), sometimes nearly circular, at other times oval and occasionally almost triangular. This is directed upwards and forwards, and articulates with the posterior calcanean facet on the under surface of the astra- galus. Anterior to this facet the bone is deeply excavated, forming a fossa from which a groove (sulcus calcanei) leads backwards and inwards around the aiitero- internal border of the articular surface. When the os calcis is placed in contact with the astragalus, this groove coincides with the sulcus on the under surface of the latter bone and so forms a canal or tunnel (sinus tarsi), in which the strong interosseous ligament which unites the two bones is lodged. To the front and inner side of this groove, there is an elongated articular facet directed obliqu^ely from behind forwards and outwards, and concave in the direction of its long axis. This is frequently divided into two smaller oval areas by an intermediate non-articular surface. Of these facets the hinder (facies articularis media) articulates with the middle calcanean facet on the under surface of the astragalus, whilst the anterior (facies articularis anterior) supports the under surface of the head of the astragalus (facies articularis calcanei anterior). The outer side of the upper surface of the anterior extremity of the bone is rough, and hereto is attached the origin of the short extensor muscle of the toes. The inferior surface of the bone is slightly concave from before backwai'ds, and convex from side to side. The under aspect of the tuberosity is provided with two tubercles, an inner (processus medialis tuberis calcanei) and an outer (processus lateralis tuberis calcanei), of which the former is the larger. From this the short flexor of the toes and the abductor liallucis muscle arise, wliilst from l)oth tubercles Fig. 177.—The Right Os Calcis as seen FROM Above. Fig. 178.—The Right Os Calcis as seen FROM Below.