895 MOEPHOLOGY OF THE VEINS. apparently the latter, for as the upper section of the inferior vena cava grows downwards from the right hepatic vein it divides into two branches, right and left, each of which joins the corresponding cardinal vein close to the termination of the renal vein. Before it fuses with the cardinal vein of its own side, each of the terminal branches of the uj^joer section of the inferior vena cava gives off branches which ultimately become the sujirarenal and spermatic veins ; there can be no doubt, howe^•er, that both the suprarenal and spermatic veins are intermediate visceral segmental veins, and in all probability they originall}' terminated in the corresponding cardinal veins, their development from the U2:>per section of the inferior vena cava being due to the ])roduction in the embryo of a condition which has been secondarily acquired during the development of the species. If this is the case, it is extremely probable that the left spermatic vehi represents not only an elongated intermediate visceral segmental vein, but also a portion of the left cardinal into which it opened. The vena azygos major is the persistent upper portion of the left cardinal vein, a fact which is emphasised by its frequent connexion with the inferior vena cava at the level of the right renal vein. The right intercostal veins which open into the vena azygos major are somatic segmental veins, the upper three or four of which have united together by pre-costal anastomoses to form a right superior intercostal vein. The vertical portions of the left azygos veins are remnants of the left primitive cardinal vein, and their transverse j)ortions are enlarged transverse anastomoses comjiarable to the left innominate and left common iliac veins. The left, like the right intercostal veins, are segmental somatic veins; but whilst the right superior intercostal vein is formed by jire-costal anastomoses between the upper three or four dorsal somatic segmental veins, the left suj^erior intercostal vein (Fig. 606) represents the upper part of the left cardinal vein and the part of the left primitive jugular vein below the transverse anastomosis, which becomes the left innominate vein ; moreover, the left superior intercostal vein frequently retains in the adult a connexion with the oblique vein of Marshall, which represents the left duct of Cuvier, by means of which both the left primitive jugular and the left cardinal veins originally communicated with the heart. Visceral Veins.—The portal vein rej^resents portions of tlie ventral longitudinal anastomosing vessels, being derived from the vitelline veins. The pyloric vein is a splanchnic intersegmental ventral longitudinal anastomosing vein. The coronary vein is partly a ventral and partly a dorsal splanchnic intersegmental longitudinal anastomosis, and the superior and inferior mesenteric veins are dorsal splanchnic longitudinal intersegmental venous anastomoses, the s^jlenic vein being merely a tributary from a lymphoid organ developed in the dorsal mesentery. The facial vein is a combination of somatic and splanchnic veins of several segments, and the internal maxillary vein is probably of similar nature. The thyroid and bronchial veins return blood from organs developed from diverticula from the Myalls of the alimentary canal; they are, therefore, more or less modified segmental splanchnic veins ; so also apparently are the vesical and the middle and inferior htemorrhoidal veins. The cardiac veins are simply "vasa vasorum," and they belong therefore to the splanchnic group of vessels, but it is impossible to say whether they are segmental or intersegmental. The coronary sinus into which they open is a portion of the sinus venosus of the heart, and therefore of an originally intersegmental vessel. The hepatic and pulmonary veins are new vessels which return blood to the heart after the liver and lungs have been interposed in the vascular system. It is noteworthy that some j^arts of the splanchnic venous system, i.e. the j^ortal vein and the coronary sinus, are portions of the most primitive vascular system, and that others, i.e. the thyroid, bronchial, mesenteric, vesical, and hsemorrhoidal veins, appear to belong to a somewhat secondary group of splanchnic veins of combined segmental and intersegmental character ; more- over, some of the secondary group of veins open into the primary splanclmic veins, e.g. the superior and inferior mesenteric into the portal vein; some open into the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing veins, e.g. the vesical and hEeniorrhoidal veins open into the cardinal veins, which are intersegmental anastomoses; others again open into an entirely new vein, viz. the internal jugular, which is developed along the dorso-lateral border of the fore-gut, and which is therefore comparable to the dorsal venous splanchnic intersegmental anastomosis, which in the abdominal region becomes converted, after fusion of the vessels of opposite sides, into the greater parts of the superior and inferior mesenteric veins; the latter, however, open into a ventral longitudinal anastomosing vessel, the portal vein, whilst the former joins a dorsal longitudinal anastomosing trunk. Veins of the Limbs.—The veins of the limbs, like the arteries, were probably at one time segmental in character, but we have no absolute proof that this was the case. Looked at from an embryological standpoint, the most primitive limb veins are a superficial distal arch and arpost-axial trunk vein in each extremity; at a later period digital veins are connected with the distal arch, and a pre-axial trunk is formed. In the upj^er extremity the distal arch and its tributaries remain as the dorsal venous arch and the digital veins, and the post-axial vein becomes the posterior ulnar, the basilic and axillary veins, and also that part of the subclavian vein which lies external to the termination of the external jugular vein, the remainder of the subclavian vein being formed from the primitive jugular vein itself. The pre-axial vein of the upper extremity is represented in the adult by the radial and cephalic veins ; the latter vessel originally terminated in the external j ugular vein above the clavicle, the union with the axillary portion of the post-axial vessel being a secondary condition ; the primary condition is, however, frequently retained in man, and is constant in many monkeys. The anastomosis between the pre-axial