NOKMA BASALTS OF THE SKULL. 159 bounded by the inner surfaces of the internal pterygoid plates, whilst above, the outer side of the arch is formed by the vaginal processes of the same plate; intern- ally they are separated by the thin vertical posterior border of the vomer, whilst above the everted alee of the same bone form the inner sides of the arch. The plane of these apertures is not vertical but oblique, corresponding usually to a line drawn from the bregma above through the last molar tooth of the upper jaw below. Their size varies considerably, but the height is usually equal to twice the width. The region of the cranium which lies external to the superior maxilla and external pterygoid plate corresponds to the zygomatic fossa, which has been already described as seen from the side (norma lateralis, p. 152). Viewed from below, the zygomatic fossa is bounded in front by the posterior surface of the body of the superior maxilla and the internal surface of the malar bone. The roof, which is traversed by the spheno-squamosal suture, is formed in front by the under surface of the great wing of the sphenoid, and behind by a small triangular surface of the under side of the squamous part of the temporal bone immediately in front of the eminentia articularis. Circumscribed externally and behind by the anterior root of the zygoma, which curves forward to become continuous in front with the infra-temporal crest crossing the external surface of the great wing of the sphenoid, the roof of the fossa is separated from its anterior wall by the spheno-maxillary fissure, which is so inclined that with its fellow of the opposite side it forms an angle of 90°. Superiorly the zygomatic fossa communicates freely with the temporal fossa beneath the zygo- matic arch, though the student must bear in mind the fact that when the inferior maxilla is in position the external limits of the space are very much reduced (p. 153). The under surface of the great wing of the sphenoid is here V-shaped. The angle corresponds to the spine, the outer limb to the spheno-squamosal suture, whilst the inner limb corresponds to a narrow cleft, the fissura spheno-petrosa, which separates it from the petrous portion of the temporal bone to which it is uuited in the recent condition by a synchondrosis. Along the line of this latter fissure the edges of the adjacent bones (sphenoid and petrous temporal) are bevelled so as to form a groove, which extends from the root of the inner pterygoid plate internally to the inner side of the base of the alar spine externally, where the groove ends by entering an osseous canal. In the groove (sulcus tnhse auditivse) is lodged the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube, whilst the osseous canal includes the bony part of the same tube, together with the tensor tympani muscle, which is lodged in a separate compartment immediately above it. The anterior extremity of the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube is supported by the posterior edge of the internal pterygoid plate, which is often notched for its recep- tion. Between the root of the external pterygoid plate and the alar spine there are two foramina, which lie immediately in front of the sulcus tubse auditivse. Of these, the larger and anterior is the foramen ovale, through which pass the motor root and inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, together with the small meningeal artery. The smaller, which from its position immediately in front of the alar spine is called the foramen spinosum, transmits the middle menin- geal artery and sympathetic plexus surrounding that vessel. The lesser superficial petrosal nerve here passes through the base of the skull to join the otic ganglion either through a small foramen (canalis innominatus) placed between the foramen ovale and the foramen spinosum, or through the foramen ovale or through the spheno-petrosal fissure. The position of the suture between the basioccipital and basisphenoid corresponds to a line connecting the tips of the pterygoid tubercles at the root of the internal pterygoid plates. Occasionally in tlie centre of this line there is a small pit with a foramen leading from it. This probably represents the lower end of the cranio-pharyngeal canal. The under surface of the basioccipital (pars basilaris) stretches between the body of the sphenoid in front and the anterior margin of the foramen magnum behind; projecting from its centre is a slight elevation, the pharyngeal tubercle