THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 81G pierces the deep fascia, and terminates in the scrotum, where it anastomoses with the superhcial perineal and superficial external pudic arteries, and with the cremasteric branch of the deep epigastric artery. (4) The profunda artery (a. profunda femoris. Fig. 573) is a large l)ranch only slightly snialltu- than the continuation of the femoral artery, lit arises about an inch and a half below I'oupart's ligament, fr(»m the outer side of the i'emoral artery. Curving Ijackwards and inwards, it passes behind the latter vessel, and runs down- wards, close to the inner aspect of the femur, to the lower third of the thigh, where it perforates the adductor magnus and passes to the back of the thigh. Its termina- tion is known as the fourth perforating artery. As the profunda descends it lies upon the ihacus, the pectineus, the adductor brevis, and the adductor magnus. It is se})arated from the feuKtral artery l)y its own vein, by the femoral vein, and by the adductor longus muscle behind which it passes. Branches.—(") Muscular branches are given oft'from the profunda both in Scarpa's triangle, and whilst it lies between the adductor muscles; many of them terminate in the adductors, others pass through the adductor magnus, and terminate in the hamstrings, where they anastomose with the transverse branch of the internal circumflex and with the upper muscular branches of the popliteal artery. (b) The external circumflex artery (a. circumflexa femoris lateralis, Figs. 573 and 574) springs from the outer side of the profunda, or occasionally from the femoral artery above the origin of the profunda. It runs outwards across the front of the iliacus, and between the superficial and deep branches of the anterior crural nerve, to the outer border of Scarpa's trian<>le; then, passing beneath the sartorius and the rectus femoris, it terminates by dividing into three terminal branches—the ascending, the transverse, and the descend- ing. Before its termination it supplies branches to the nuiscles mentioned and to the upper part of the crureus. (i.) The ascending terminal branch (ramus asceudens) runs upwards aud outwards, beneath the rectus femoris and the tensor fasciie femoris, along the anterior intertroclianteric line, to the anterior borders of the gluteus luedius and minimus, between which it passes to anastoiuo.se with the dee]) l)ranc]ies of the gluteal artery. It sui^plies twigs to the neighbouring muscles, anasto- moses witli the gluteal, the deep circumflex iliac, and the transverse branch of the external circuiufic.x arteries, and, as it ascends along the anterior intertrochanteric line, gives off a branch which passes Ijetweeu the two limbs of the Y-shaped ligament into the hip-joint, (ii.) The transverse terminal branch is small; it runs outwards between the crureus and the rectus femoris, passes iuti) tlie substance of the vastus externus, winds round the fenmr, and anastomoses witli the ascending and descending branches, with the perforating Ijrancljes of the profunda, and with the sciatic and internal circunillex arteries, (iii.) The descending terminal branch (ramus descendens) runs downwards beneath the rectus and along the anterior border of the vastus externus accompanied Ijy the nerve to the latter muscle. It anastomoses with the transverse branch, with twigs of the inferior ]ierforating arteries, with the anastomotic laranch of the I'emoral, and with the superior external articular branch of the pojjliteal artery. (c) The internal circumflex artery (a. circumflexa femoris mcdialis. Fig. 573) springs from tlio inner aud back part of the profunda, at the same level as the external circumflex, aud runs backwards, through the floor of Scarpa's triangle, passing between the psoas and the pectineus; crossing the upper border of the adductor brevis it is continued backwards beneath the neck of the femur, aud passes between the adjacent borders of the obturator externus and the adductor brevis to the upper border of the adductor magnus, where it divides into two terminal branches, a transverse and an ascending. Branches.—(i.) An articular branch (ramus acetabuli) is given off as the artery passes beneath tlie neck of the fenmr. It ascends to the cotyloid notch where it anastomo.ses with twigs from the i)osterior branch of the obturator artery, and it sends branches into the cotyloid cavity and along the ligamentum teres to the head of the femur, (ii.) Muscular branches are given off to the neighbouiing muscles. Tlie largest of these branches usually rises immediately before the termination of the artery, it descends on the anterior aspect of the adductor magnus and anastomoses with the muscular branches of the ])rofunda artery, (iii.) The'ascending terminal branch (ramus i)rofundus) passes np^-ards and outwards, between the obturator externus and the quadratus rfemoris to the digital fossa of the I'enuir, where it anastomoses with branches of the gluteal and the sciatic arteries, (iv.) The transverse terminal branch (ranuts superficialis) runs backwards between the lower border of the quadratus femoris and the upjper border of the adductor magnus to the hamstring muscles. It anastomoses imder the lower part of the gluteus maxinuts with the sciatic and first perforating arteries and with the transverse branch of the external circumflex, and in the substance of tlie hamstrings witli the muscular branches of the ])rofunda.