INFEEIOK VENA CAVA. 847 Superficial Veins of the Upper Arm.—Only two large superficial trunks, the basilic and the cephahc, are found in the upper arm. The basilic vein (v. basilica) commences at the upper and inner part of the bend of the elbow hj the union of the median basilic with the posterior ulnar vein. It ascends in a groove along the inner border of the biceps to the middle of the upper arm, where it passes through an opening in the deep fascia, the hiatus semilunaris, and in the rest of its course lies deeply along the inner side of the brachial artery. It terminates at the lower border of the teres major by l^ecoming the axillary vein, and it contains one or more bicuspid valves. The cephalic vein (v. cephalica) is formed at the upper and outer part of the bend of the elbow by the union of the radial vein with the cephalic Ijranch of the median vein. It ascends first along the outer border of the biceps, where it is accompanied by the superior external cutaneous branch of the musculo- spiral nerve; then, after piercing the deep fascia, it is continued upwards between the adjacent borders of the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, accompanied by the descending; or humeral branch of the acromio-thoracic axis. Just below the clavicle it turns inwards, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane, and terminates m the upper or third part of the axillary vein. It is provided with a bicuspid valve at its termination. In its primitive form it terminated in the external jugular vein, to reach which it passed either over or through the clavicle. This condition occasionally persists, or is represented by a small communicating vein. THE INFERIOR VENA CAVA AND ITS TRIBUTARIES. The inferior vena cava (Fig. 587) is a large venous trunk which receives the whole of the blood from the lower extremities, and the greater part of the blood from the walls and contents of the abdomen and pelvis. It commences opposite the right side of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, behind and to the right of the right common iliac artery, ascends through the al)domen in front and to the right of the vertebral column and the right cms of the diaphragm, and pierces the cupola of the diaphragm, between the middle and right sections of the central tendinous leaflet, at the level of the eighth dorsal vertebra. It then enters the middle mediastinum, passes through the pericardium, and terminates in the lower and back part of the right auricle. Its intrapericardial portion is very short, and it is covered on its anterior and lateral aspects by the parietal portion of the serous layer. Attached to the lower and front margin of its auricular orifice is the Eustachian valve, which is a remnant of an important fold of endocardium by which, in the fcetus, the blood from the inferior vena cava is directed, through the foramen ovale, into the left auricle. Relations.—The inferior vena cava is in relation behind with the bodies of the lower lumbar vertebrte and the corresponding part of the anterior common ligament, the anterior portion of the right psoas muscle, the right lumbar sympathetic cord, the roots of the riglit lumbar arteries, the right crus of the diaphragm, the right renal artery, the right semihmar ganglion, the right inferior phrenic artery, and the inner and upper portion of the right suprarenal body. In front of it, from below upwards, are the following structures—the riglit common iliac artery, the lower end of the mesentery and the superior mesenteric artery, the spermatic artery and the third part of the diiodenum, the head of the jDancreas, the portal vein and the first part of the duodenum, the foramen of Winslow, and the posterior surface of the liver. More superficially are coils of small intestine, the great omentum, and the transverse colon and mesocolon. To its left side are the aorta and the right crus of the diaphragm. On its right side and below is the right lueter, whilst at a higher level the right kidney is only separated from it by a short interval. Tributaries.—In addition to the two common iliac veins, by the union of which it is formed, and through which it receives blood from the pelvis and from the lower extremi- ties, the inferior vena cava receives the following tributaries :—The hepatic veins, the right inferior phrenic vein, the right suprarenal vein, the right and left renal veins, the right spermatic or ovarian vein, and the right and left lumbar veins.