THE MALE I'EEINEUM. 1231 is liable to become impacted. The most dependent part of the uretlira is the l)iilbous portion, and it is in this situation that an organic stricture is most frequently met with. The membranous portion of the urethra, situated between the two layers of the triangular ligament, is surrounded Ijy the compressor urethra' muscle, which, when thrown into spasm, may firmly grip an instrument as it is passed into the bladder. Rupture of the urethra from a fall on the perineum generally involves the bulbous portion. A false passage made during the passage of an instrument generally traverses the tioor of the urethra at the triangular liga- ment ; to prevent this the point of the instrument shoidd always 1 le directed upwards, and the handle at the same time depressed as soon as the instrument is felt to encounter the resistance of the triangular ligament. When the prostate is hyper- trophied the prostatic portion of the urethra is elongated, and the internal meatus may look directly forwards, while if the lateral lol^es are unequally enlarged it may deviate laterally. Patients with prostatic hypertrophy are seldom able to completely empty the Ijladder, on account of the dependent well which exists below and Ijehind the prostate. The epididymis, which can be felt behind the testicle as an elongated curved body applied vertically to its posterior surface, is especially involved in gonorrhoeal and tubercular infections of the testicle. Occupying the posterior part of the spermatic cord is the vas deferens, which, when grasped between the finger and thumb, feels like a piece of whip-cord. The spermatic veins form a plexus in the substance of the cord, known as the pam];)iniform plexus; a A^aricose condition ol' these veins gives rise to the condition known as varicocele. In operating for varicocele the veins are reached by dividing in succession all the coverings of the cord; the deepest covering, viz. the infundiliuliform fascia, deriA^ed from the fascia transversalis, forms a well-marked fibrous envelope which immediately surrounds the veins and other constituents of the cord. Besides the spermatic artery, the testicle receives its blood supply from the artery accompanying the vas deferens and from the cremasteric branch of the deep epigastric. The marked swelling which attends xdevia and hcematowa of the scrotum is due to the loose and delicate character of the cellular tissue which occupies the space between the dartos muscle and the subjacent membrane derived from the inter- • columnar fascia. The anus is situated in the rectal division of the perineum al)Out Ih in. in front of and below the tip of the coccyx. The skin around the orifice is pigmented and thrown into radiating folds. The painful linear crack or ulcer, known as fissure of the anus, generally occupies one of the furrows at the posterior margin of the anus. The skin of the anus is provided with large sebaceous and sweat glands, which are occasionally the site of small and very painful anal abscesses. On making a rectal exMmination it will 1)0 deserved that the finger, Ijei'ore it reaches the cavity of the rectum, traverses the narrow or sphincteric portion of the rectum, appropriately named by Symington the anal canal. This canal, which is directed from below upwards and forwards, extends from the anal orifice to the ampulla of the rectum, is about 1 in. in length; its upper end is on a le\'el with the inner borders of the pubo-rectal portions of the levatores ani. External hccmorrhoids are developed I'rom the anal folds situated outside the white line corresponding to the muco-cutaneous junction; internal ^w/t's are developed from the veins of the mucosa at the upper part oi' the anal canal. In the upper half of the anal canal are the valves of Morgagni. According to Ball, fissure of the anus is generally caused by the tearing downwards of one of the posterior valves during the passage of a scylmlous mass. According to Birmingham, the pulio-coccygeal filjres of the levator ani close the upper part of the anal canal, whilst the external sphincter closes the remaining part. The internal sphincter, according to the same author, acts probal)ly as a detrusor, its use being to empty the anal canal completely after the passage of each fascal mass. The apex of the ischio-rectal fossa, formed Ijy the attachment of the anal fascia to the obturator portion of the parietal pelvic fascia, is directed upwards towards the pelvis, and lies 2^ in. from the surface. The inner wall of the fossa is