196 OSTEOLOGY. whilst the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the extensor brevis pollicis muscles lie within the groove. To the tip of the styloid process is attached the external lateral ligament of the wrist. On the inner side of the lower extremity is placed the sigmoid cavity (incisura ulnaris) for the reception of the head of the ulna. Concave from before backwards, and plane from above downwards, it forms by its inferior margin a rectangular edge which separates it from the inferior carpal surface. To this edge the base of the triangular fibro-cartilage is attached, a structure which serves to separate the inferior articular surface of the head of the ulna from the carpus. The anterior and posterior edges of the sigmoid cavity, more or less prominent, serve for the attachment of ligaments. The proportionate length of the radius to the body height is as 1 is to 6-70-7-11. Nutrient Foramina.—The ojjeuings of several small nutrient canals may be seen in the reo-ion of tlie nctk. That for the shaft, which has an upward direction, is usually placed on the front of the l)one, internal to the anterior oblique line, and from an inch and a half to two inches below the bicipital tubercle. The back of the lower extremity of the bone is 2nerced by many small foramina. Connexions. — The radius articulates with the capitellum of the humerus in the flexed i)osition of the elbow, with the ulna to its inner side by the superior and inferior radio-ulnar joints, and with the scaphoid and semilunar bones of the carj)us below. Above, the head of the bone can be felt in the internuiscular depression on the outer side of the back of the elbow ; here the bone is onlv covered by the skin, superficial fascia, and the thin common tendinous origin of the extensor muscles, as well as the ligaments which support it. Its jiosition can best be ascer- tained by pronating and supinating- the bones of the forearm, when the head will be felt rotating beneath the finger. The lower end of the bone is overlain in front and liehind hj the flexor and extensor tendons, but its general form can be readily made out. The styloid process lying to the outer side of the wrist in line with the extended thumb, can easily be recognised : note that it reaches a lower level than the corresponding process of the ulna. The outer border of the lower third of the shaft can be distinctly felt, as liere the bone is only overlain by tendons. Architecture.—The neck is the narrowest part of the bone ; here fracture may occur, though not commonly. The point at which the bone is usually broken is about one inch above the lower extremity. This is accounted for by the fact that the radius supjwrts the hand at the radio-carpal articulation, and the shocks to which the latter is subjected, as in endeavouring to save oneself from falling, are naturally transmitted to the radius. On section, the medullaiy canal is seen to extend as high as the neck ; below, it reaches to the level of the inferior fifth of the bone. Its walls are thick as compared with the diameters of the bone, particularly along the interosseous border, thus imparting rigidity to 2 the curve of the shaft; these walls thin out above and belo\v^ Sujieriorly, the surface of the bicipital tubercle is formed of a thin shell of bone, which, however, thickens again where it passes on to the neck. The upper extremity is formed of spongy bone arranged in the form of arcades, reaching below the level of the bicipital tubei'cle internally, but not extending l)elOw the level of the neck ex- ternally. Beneath the cajjitellar articular surface there is a dense layer, thickest in the centre, and thinning towards the circum- ference ; this is overlain l)y a very thin layer of less compact bone. The inferior fifth of the shaft and lower extremity are formed of loose spongy bone arranged more or less longitudinally. Im- mediately subjacent to the carpal ai'ticular surface the tissue is more compact, and dis- plays a striation parallel to the articular jjlaue. The nutrient canal of the shaft pierces the anterior M'all of the upper part of the medul- lary cavity obliquely from below upwards for the space of half an inch. Variations.—Cases of congenital absence of the radius are recorded ; in these the tliumb is not infrequently wanting as well. Ossification.—The centre for the shaft makes its appearance early in the second month of intrauterine life. At birth the shaft is well formed; its upper and lower extremities are capped with cartilage, and the bicipital tubercle is beginning to appear. Fuses with shaft 18-20 years Appears about 2-3 years Unites with shaft 20-25 years At Birth. Fig. 138.- Aliout 12 years. About It) years. -The Ossification op the Radius.