307 FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE BACK. THE UPPER LIMB. FASCIA AND MUSCLES jdV THE BACK. FASCIJE. The superficial fascia of the back presents no peculiarity. It is usually of considerable thickness, and contains a quantity of fat. The deep fascia closely invests the muscles. It is attached in the middle line to the liganientum nuchse, supraspinous ligaments, and vertebral spines; laterally it is attached to the spine of the scapula and the clavicle, and is continued over the deltoid region to the arm. In the neck it is attached above to the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and is continuous laterally with the deep cervical fascia. Below the level of the arm it is continuous round the border of the latissimus dorsi muscle, with the fascia of the axilla and of the abdominal wall. In the back and loin it constitutes the vertebral aponeurosis or aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi, concealing the erector spinte, forming the posterior layer of the lumbar fascia, and attached internally tp the vertebral spines, externally to the angles of the ribs above, to the lumbar fascia in the loin, and to the iliac crest below. The Superficial Muscles of the Back. The posterior muscles connecting the upper limb to the trunk comprise the first two layers of the muscles of the back—(1) trapezius and latissimus dorsi, and (2) levator anguli scapulae and rhomboidei (major and minor).. The trapezius (m. trapezius, cucuUaris) is a large triangular muscle. It arises from the superior curved line of the occipital bone in its inner third, from the external occipital protuberance, from the Hgamentum nuchte, from the spines of the seventh cervical and all the thoracic vertebrae, and the corresponding supra- spinous ligaments. The origin is by direct fleshy attachment, except in relation to the occipital bone, the lowest part of the neck, and the lower thoracic vertebrte, in which places the origins are tendinous. From their origin the muscular flbres converge towards the bones of the shoulder, to be inserted continuously from before backwards as follows(1) The occipital and upper cervical fibres, into the pos- terior surface of the clavicle in its outer third; (2) the lower cervical and upper thoracic fibres, into the inner side of the acromion process, and the upper border of the spine of the scapula in its whole length ; and (3) the lower thoracic fibres, by a triangular flat tendon, beneath which a bursa is placed, into a rough tuberosity at the,base of the spine of the scapula. The occipital portion of the muscle may be in the form of a separate slip, or may be entirely absent. The trapezius is superficial in its whole extent. Its upper lateral border forms the posterior limit of the posterior triangle of the neck. The lower lateral border, passing over the upper edge of the latissimus dorsi and the vertebral border of the scapula, forms a boundary of the so-called triangle of auscultation completed below by the latissimus dorsi, and externally by the vertebral border of the scapula. This space is partly filled up by the rhomboideus major. The deep surface of the muscle is in contact with the levator anguli scapulae, rhomboidei, latissimus dorsi, and other deeper muscles. The spinal accessory nerve, branches of the cervical plexus (C. 3'4), and of the superficial cervical and posterior scapular arteries, are situated beneath the muscle. ■ The latissimus dorsi is a large triangular muscle with a triple origin. It arises—(1) from the vertebral aponeurosis (posterior layer of the lumbar fascia or aponeu.rosis of the latissimus dorsi). This is a thick membrane which conceals the erector spinae in the lower part of the back. Through it the latissimus dorsi gains attachment to the spines of the lower six thbracic vertebrae, the spines of the lumbar vertebrae, and the tendon of the erector spinae with which the aponeurosis blends below. It also arises more externally by fleshy fibres from the posterior part of the iliac crest. From this origin the muscle is directed upwards and out-