785 THE BEACH IAL AETERY. supply the deltoid. As a rule it is an artery of large size, only slightly smaller than the subscapular. Branches.—{a) Muscular to the teres major and minor, the triceps heads, long and external, ' and the deltoid; (b) An acromial branch, which ascends to the acromial process, where it anastomoses with the acromial branches of the suprascapular and the acromio-thoracic arteries ; (c) A descending branch, which runs downwards along the external head of the triceps to anastomose with the superior profunda artery; (d) Articular to the shoulder-joint; (e) Nutrient to the head of the humerus; (/) Terminal, which supply a large portion of the deltoid, and anastomose with the anterior circumflex and acromio-thoracic artei'ies. (7) The anterior circumflex artery (a. circumhexa humeri anterior) is a small branch which is given off from the third part of the axillary close to, or in common with, the posterior circumflex. It passes outwards beneath the coraco-brachialis and the two heads of the biceps, round the front of the surgical neck of the humerus, and terminates by anastomosing with the posterior circumflex.. At the bicipital groove it giA^es a well-marked ascending bicipital branch which ascends along the long head of the biceps, supplying the sheath of the tendon, and giving branches to the shoulder-joint. It also gives muscular branches to the adjacent muscles, one of which descends along the tendon of insertion of the pectoralis major. THE BEACHIAL ARTERY. The brachial artery (a. brachialis) is the direct continuation of the axillary. It commences at the lower border of the teres major, and terminates in the ante-cubital fossa at the level of the neck of the radius, by dividing into the radial and ulnar arteries. The general course of the brachial artery is downwards and outwards, along the inner side of the arm. Its position may be indicated on the surface by a line drawn from the lower part of the axillary space at the junction of its anterior and middle thirds to the centre of the bend of the elbow. Fig. 562.- Bicipital fascia Supinator lons'us -The Brachial Artery and its Branches. Relations.—Posterior.—It rests successively upon the long head of the triceps, the musculo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda artery intervening, the internal head of the triceps, the insertion of the coraco-brachialis and the brachialis anticus. Anterior.— It is overlapped in front by the inner border of the biceps, is crossed at its centre by the median nerve, and in addition is covered by deep and superficial fascia and by skin. In the ante-cubital fossa a thickened portion of the deep fascia, the semilunar or bicipital fascia, separates it from the median basilic vein and the anterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, both of which lie in the superficial fascia. Lateral.—To the outer side it is in relation above with the median nerve, and below with the biceps. To the inner side it is in relation in the upper part of its extent with the basilic vein, the internal 50