191 THE ULNA. on the lower and outer part of the great sigmoid notch, so as to narrow it considerably. Separated from it by a rectangular curved edge, it displays a surface which is plane from above downwards, and concave from before backwards. Its anterior extremity is narrower and more pointed than its posterior, and becomes continent with the anterior edge of the coronoid process, at which point the orbicular ligament, which retains the head of the radius in position, is attached in front. Its posterior border, wider and more outstanding, lies in line, and is con- tinuous with the interosseous margin of the shaft. Behind this border, the orbicular ligament is attached posteriorly. The shaft of the ulna (corpus ulute), which is nearly straight, or but slightly curved, is stout and thick above, gradually tapering towards its lower exti-emity. It may be divided into two surfaces, a flexor and an extensor, by two well-defined l)orders, an external or interosseous (crista interossea), and a posterior (margo dorsahs), which latter is subcutaneous throughout its whole length. The outer, or interosseous border (crista interossea), is crisp and sharp in the upper three-fourths of the shaft, but becomes faint and ill-defined in the lower fourth. To this, with the exception only of the part which forms the posterior boundary of the bicipital hollow, is attached the interosseous membrane which connects the two bones of the forearm. The posterior border (margo dorsalis), of sinuous outline, curving outwards above, and slightly inwards below, is continuous superiorly with the triangular subcutaneous area on the back of the olecranon, being formed by the contiueuce of the borders which bound that surface; well marked above, it becomes faint and more rounded below, but may be traced down- wards to the posterior surface of the base of the styloid process. To this border is attached an aponeurosis common to the flexor carpi ulnaris, extensor carpi ulnaris, and flexor profundus digitorum muscles. A noteworthy feature in connexion with this part of the sliaft is the fact that it is subcutaneous, and can easily be felt beneath the skin throughout its whole length. The flexor surface corresponds to the front and inner side of the shaft. It is frequently described as consisting of two surfaces, an anterior and an internal, which are separated by a rounder anterior border (margo volaris), which extends from the tubercle above towards the styloid process below. The prominence of this ridge varies in different l^ones, being well marked in bones of a pronounced type, but corresponding merely to the rounding of the surfaces in poorly developed specimens. The flexor aspect of the bone affords an extensive origin to the flexor profundus digitorum muscle, which clothes its anterior and inner sides in its upper three-fourths, reaching as far back as the posterior border, and extending upwards as high as the inner side of the cpronoid' process. Immediately below the small sigmoid cavity there is a hollow triangular area, limited behind by the upper part of the interosseous crest, and defined in front by an oblique line wliich extends downwards and backwards from the outer margin of the coronoid process. In this hollow the bicipital tubercle of the radius rests when the forearm is in the prone position, and to its floor are attached the fibres of origin of the supinator brevis muscle. The lower fourth of the shaft is crossed by the fibres of the pronator quadratus muscle, which derives its origin from a more or less well defined crest, which winds spirally downwards and backwards towards the front of the root of the styloid process, and is continuous above with the so-called anterior border. The extensor aspect of the shaft lies posteriorly between the posterior border and the interosseous crest. At its upper part it is placed behind the great and small sigmoid cavities, extending on to the outer side of the olecranon. Here an area corresponding to the upper tliird of the length of the bone is marked off inferiorly by an oblique ridge which leaves the interosseous crest about an inch or more below the liinder edge of the small sigmoid cavity. Into this somewhat triangular surface the fibres of the anconeus are inserted. Below this the posterior surface is subdivided by a faint longitudinal ridge, the bone between which and the interosseous crest furnishes origins for the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, extensor longus poUicis, and extensor indieis muscles, in order from above downwards. The surface of bone between the posterior border and the afore-men- tioned longitudinal line is smooth and overlain by the extensor carpi ulnaris muscle.