G5S THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Becoming septii-ated from the brain, the cellular mass separates into three portions, of which the middle part is associated with the facial nerve and pars intermedia (as the geniculate ganglion), while the mesial and lateral parts are converted into the mesial (vestibular) and lateral (cochlear) ganglia and roots of the auditory nerve. The cells becoming bipolar, their central processes are secondarily connected with the brain on the doi'sal (lateral) aspect of the facial nerve; the peripheral processes proceed to the auditor}' vesicle, to which they are distributed as the vestibular and cochlear nerves. Numerous cells are carried along with the nerve trunks into relation with the auditory capsule, and constitute the vestibular and cochlear ganglia. The gloSSO-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves are developed from the side of the hind-brain, both in the same way, and each by two roots. A collection of cells separates itself from the alar lamina of the hind-brain behind the auditory vesicle to form the ganglionic afferent root. The ganglion of the pneumogastric is nuich larger than that of the glosso-pharyngeal. Each ganglion becomes divided into two parts, a proximal and a distal portion, connected together by a commissural band of fibres. The proximal ganglion (jugular ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal; ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric) is secondarily connected by centripetal fibres to the hind-brain. From the distal ganglion (petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal ; ganglion of the trunk of the pneumogastric) peripheral fibres grow outwards to form the nerve trunk. Each nerve is also provided with a small efferent root, consisting of nerve fibres, arising from a collection of neuroblasts in the lateral part of the basal lamina of the hind- Fi(j. 472.—CoMi'ARisox OF Spinal Cord and Hind-Buain ; Origin ok Nkkve Roots (after Hix). A. Spinal cord ; B. Hind-brain. brain, and emerging beneath the ganglionic root at the junction of the alar and basal laminae (in series with the fibres of the eft'erent root of the facial nerve above and of the spinal accessory nerve below). The spinal accessory nerve arises in tAvo parts—one medullary, the other spinal. The medullary (accessory) portion develops as the processes of a series of neuroblasts in the lateral portion of the basal lamina of the hind-brain, which emerge in series with the efferent roots of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves. The spinal portion arises as the processes of a group of neuroblasts in the ventral part of the medullary tube, which at first are directed dorsally in the side of the primitive sjjinal cord, and, turning' outwards, emerge as a scries of roots on its lateral aspect. The hypoglossal nerve is developed, not in series with the nerves above- mentioned, but like the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, from the mesial part of the basal lamina of the hind-brain, in the space between the glosso-phaiyngeal and nerves above and the first cervical nerve below. It is formed as a series of peripheral processes from a collection of neuroblasts occupying the hind-brain. Froriep's ganglion is a transitory collection of nerve-cells developed from the alar lamina of the hind-brain on the dorsal aspect of the nerve, and represents in a rudimentary condition its dorsal ganglionic root. It gives oft' no branches and soon disappears.