29 THE EMBEYO. Muscle plate. Blood-vessel Spinal cord Ectoderm Mesoderm called myotomes. After a time, however, the fibres of neighbouring myotomes are more or less intermingled, and in the adult, except in certain situations, the iiiter- myotoniic intervals are no longer recognisable. The main portions of the myotomes are converted into the muscle masses situated in the dorsal part of the body wall, that is, into the erectores spinse and their main subdivisions, and the other muscles which occupy the vertebral grooves. In the lower vertebrates the ventral ends of the myotomes descend in the somatopleure almost to the mid-ventral line, and are transformed into the muscles of the ventro-lateral walls of the body. A similar descent of the ventral ends of the myotomes into the lateral walls of the body has not been proved in the highest vertebrates. In mammals, including man, the ventral ends of the myotomes only descend for a short distance in the somatopleure, and then all trace of their char- acteristic structure is lost. It is presumed, however, that cells budded off' from the myotomes descend to a lower level, and that they take part in the formation of the ventro-lateral muscles. In lower vertebrates bud-like projections pass from the myo- scieratogenons^ tomes in the thoracic and pelvic regions into the limb rudiments, and from these the muscles of the limbs are developed. In the highest vertebrates distinct buds from the myotomes have not been observed, but it is said that out- growths of cells pass from the myotomes into the limb buds, where they proliferate and form the limb-muscles. The occurrence of these outgrowths into the limbs, like the descent of the lower ends of the myotomes into the ventral part of the body-wall, has not been proved in mammals ; possibly it occurs, but, if not, the ventral and limb - muscles of mammals must be developed from the somatopleural meso- derm. The Cutaneous Lamella of the Protovertebral Somite.^—The cells which form the outer and dorsal walls of the cavities of the protovertebral somites retain their epithelial-like characters for a longer period than those of other portions of the somites, and at the borders of the lamellfe they pass by gradual transition into the cells of the muscle plates. After a time they undergo histological differentiation, and they are utilised in the formation of the subcutaneous tissues and fascife on the dorsal aspect of the body, and outgrowths, which descend with the offsets of the muscle plates, enter into the formation of the ventro-lateral walls of the body. The Protovertebral Somites of the Head.—It has already been pointed ont (p. 24) that protovertebral somites are not recognisable in mammals further forwards than tlie occipital region; but, from the evidence obtained by examination of lower vertebrates, it is believed that originally nine somites were present in the cephalic region. From the first, second, and third of these, muscle plates form which are develojjed into the muscles of the eyeballs. If any muscle plates are formed in connection with the fourth, fifth, and sixth somites they disappear, leaving no traces, and the muscles develojjed from the remaining cephalic somites are'those of the tongue and those connecting the head with the shoulder girdle. The Lateral Plates.—At an early stage, before its separation from the paraxial mesoderm, each lateral plate is divided into an outer or somatic and an inner or splanchnic layer. The somatic layer is concerned with the formation of the Fig. 23. —Coronal Section op a Kat Embryo. !ig tlie relationship of the extending scleratogenous tissue to the spinal cord and to the muscle plates.