1127 THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. Structure of the Fallopian Tubes.—The wall of each tube, which is surrounded by a covering of peritoneum (tunica serosa), is composed of a number of concentric layers, or coats. Immediately beneath the peritoneum is a lnyer of loose connective tissue in which lie many vessels and nerves (tunica adventitia). Beneath this is the muscular coat (tunica muscularis) composed of two strata of smooth muscle fibres,—a more superficial stratum of longitudinally arranged fibres (stratum longitudinale), and a deeper layer the fibres of which are circularly disposed (stratum circulare). Deeper is a submucous layer (tela siibmucosa), and then tiie lining membrane or mucous coat (tunica mucosa). In the part of the tube near the uterus the muscular layer is thicker than towards the other end, and in the isthmus it forms the chief part of the wall. The mucous membrane, on the contrary, is thickest towards the fimbriated end, and here it forms the greater pai't of the tulie wall. The stratum of circular muscle fibres is especially well developed near External iliac artfrv External iliac vpiu Internal iliao artery Levator ani ObturatorJ internu. HviJOgastric // /// / 'artery nil II Eonnrl liKament of utern.-j Snperior vesical artery Pubic ramus Obturator extenius Fia. 773.—Side Wall of the Female Pelvis, showing the position of tlie ovary and the course of the Fallojiian tulie. The pelvis has been cut in section parallel to, but at .some distance from, the mesial plane. Drawn from a preparation in the Anatomical Dejjartment, Trinity College, Dublin. the uterus. The mucous membrane is thrown into numerous longitudinal folds (plicse tubarije), which in the ampulla are e.xceedingly comjjlex, the larger ones being beset on the" surface \)y smaller folds. In transverse sections of this part of the tube the folds of the mucous membrane look like large branching processes projecting into, and almost completely filling up, the lumen of the tube. The mucous membrane is covered by a ciliated epithelium, the cilia of which tend to drive the "contents of the tube towards the uterus. The epithelium is continuous with that of the'uterus, and at the fimbriated end joins tlie peritoneum. Vessels and Nerves of the Fallopian Tube.—The Fallojjian tube receives its chief l)lood- .supply froin a liraucli of tlie uterine artery (ramus tuliarius), but it also receives small branches derived I'roiu the ovarian artery. The veins of the tuhe jiour their blood partly into tlie uterine and partly into the ovarian veins. Tlie nerves are derived from the plexus that supplies the ovary, and also from tlir plexus in connexion with tlie uterus. The lymphatics join the lumbar grpirp of glands.