148 OSTEOLOGY. septum of the nose. Often deflected to one or other side, it divides the cavity of the nose (cavuni nasi) into a right and left half. Projecting into these chaniloers from their outer walls can be seen the inner surfaces and free borders of the middle (concha media) and inferior (concha inferior) turbinated bones, the spaces below and between which form the inferior and middle meatuses of the nose respectively. Below the orbit, and to the outer side of the nasal aperture, the anterior or facial surface of the body of the superior maxilla (corpus maxillae) is seen ; this is continuous inferiorly with the outer surface of the alveolar process (process alveo- laris), in which are embedded the roots of the upper teeth. A horizontal line drawn round the jaw on the level of a point midway between the lower boi'der of the nasal aperture and the alveolar edge corresponds to the plane of the hard palate. Below that the alveolar process separates the cavity of the mouth from the front of the face; whilst above, the large air space, the maxil- lary sinus (sinus maxillaris), or antrum of Highmore, lies within the body of the superior maxilla. The malar or cheek bone (os zygomaticum) forms the lower half of the outer, and outer half of the lower border of the orbit. Its outer aspect corresponds to the point of greatest width of the face, the modelling of which depends on the flatness or projection of this bone. When the lower jaw (mandibula) is in position, and the teeth in both jaws are complete, the lower dental arch will be seen to be smaller in all its diameters than the upper, so that when the jaws are clo.sed the upper teeth slightly overlap the lower both in front and at the sides. Exceptionally a departure from this arrange- ment is met with. Norma Lateralis. Viewing this aspect of the skull, in the first instance, without the lower jaw, it is seen to be formed in part by the bones of the cranium, and in part by the bones of the face. A line drawn from the fronto-nasal suture to the tip of the mastoid process serves to define roughly the boundary between these portions of the skull. Of ovoid shape, the cranium is formed above by the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones from before backwards; whilst below, included within these are the sphenoid and temporal bones. The sutures between these several bones are arranged as follows:—Commencing at the external angular process of the frontal, the suture between that bone and the malar is first seen ; tracing this backwards and a little upwards, the lower edge of the frontal next articulates with the upper margin of the great wing of the sphenoid for a distance varying from three-quarters of an inch to one inch. Here the posterior border of the frontal turns upwards and slightly back- wards, forming with the parietal the coronal suture (sutura coronalis). The lower border of the parietal bone, which is placed immediately behind the frontal, articulates anteriorly with the hinder part of the upper edge of the great wing of the sphenoid. The extent of this suture (sutura spheno-parietalis) is liable to very great indi- vidual variation—at times being broad, in other instances being pointed and narrow, whilst occasionally the parietal does not articulate with the sphenoid at all. Behind the spheno-parietal suture the parietal articulates with the squamous part of the temporal (sutura squamosa). This repeats to a certain extent the curve formed by the outline of the calvaria, and ends posteriorly about one inch behind the external auditory meatus. Here the suture alters its character and direction, and in place of being scaly, becomes toothed and irregular, uniting for the space of an inch or so the posterior inferior angle of the parietal with the mastoid process of the temporal bone. This suture (sutura parieto-mastoid) is more or less hori- zontal in direction, and lies in line and on a level with the upper border of the zygomatic arch. At a point about two inches behind the external auditory meatus the posterior border of the parietal bone turns obliquely upwards and backwards, and forms with the tabular part of the occipital bone the strongly-denticulated lambdoid suture (sutura lambdoidea). Inferiorly this suture is continued obliquely downwards between the occipital bone and the hinder border of the mastoid portion -cif the temporal, where it forms the occipito - mastoid suture (sutura occipito-