379 THE FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE CEBIT. The muscles of the orbit are seven in number: one, the levator palpebrae superioris, belougs to the upper eyelid; the other six are muscles of the eyebalL The levator palpebrse superioris lies immediately beneath the orbital perios- teum over the superior rectus muscle. It has a narrow origin above that muscle from the margin of the optic foramen. Orbicularis palpebrarum Obliquus Rectus \ , externus \ V. Rectus superior IjKVATGR PALPEBR.E SUPERIORIS It expands as it passes forwards, to end, in relation to the upper lid, in a mem- branous expansion which is inserted in a four-fold manner: (1) slightly into the orbicularis palpebrarum and skin of the upper lid, (2) mainly into the upper border of the tarsal cartilage, (3) slightly into the conjunctiva, and (4) by its edges superior'^ into the upper border of the margin of the orbital opening. The recti muscles are four in number —superior, inferior, internal, and external. They all arise from a membranous ring surrounding the optic foramen, which is separable into two parts—a superior com- mon tendon, giving origin to the superior and internal recti and the upper head of the external rectus ; and an inferior common tendon, giving origin to internal and inferior recti and the lower head of the external rectus. The two origins of the external rectus muscle are separated by the passage into the orbit of the oculo-motor, nasal, and abducent nerves. Forming flattened bands which traverse the fat of the orbit around the optic nerve and eyeball, the four muscles end in tendons which pierce the capsule of Tenon, and are inserted into the sclerotic about eight millimetres (three to four lines) behind the margin of the cornea. The superior and inferior recti are inserted in the vertical plane slightly internal to the axis of the eyeball; the exter- nal and internal recti in the trans- verse plane of the eyeball; and all are attached in front of the equator of the eyeball. The obliquus superior arises from the margin of the optic fora- men between the recti superior and i n t e r n u s. It passes forwards as a narrow muscular Fig. 277.—The Muscles of the Oubit (from above). Obliquus superior Levator palpebr.e superioris (cut) ' Rectus superior Rectus extern us Oculo-motor nerve Nasal nerve Abducent nerve Obliquus inferior Rectus inferior Pig, 278.—The Muscles or the Orbit (from without). band internal to the rectus superior, and at the anterior margin of the orbit forms a narrow tendon which passes through a special fibrous pulley (trochlea) attached to the roof of the orbit. Its direction is thus altered, and passing outwards between the tendon of the superior rectus and the eyeball, it is inserted into the sclerotic between the superior and external recti, midway between the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve;.