948 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Wlieii the luoutli is closed, and respiration is carried on through the nose, tlie cavum oris is reduced to a slit-like space, and practically obliterated by the tongue coming in contact witli the i)alate above, and with the gums and teeth laterally and in front (Fig. 637). When tlic month is slightly oi)en and the teeth nearly in contact, the tongue becomes somewhat concaxc or gnxn ed along the middle line, and leaves a channel-like sj)ace between it and t he palate, while it remains in contact with the roof and gums laterally. By depressing the hyoid bone with the root of the tongue, tlie cavum oris can be increased to a considerable size even when the teeth are in contact. Finally, by the simultaneous descent of the lower jaw and hyoid bone with the tongue, and the ascent of the soft palate, the cavity is increased to its greatest dimensions (Fig. 638). Gums (gingiva;).—This term is applied to the red linn tissue, continuous with the mucous membrane of the vestibule on the one hand, and with that of the palate or Hoor of the mouth on the other (Fig. 637), which covers tlie alveolar borders of tlie maxilla and mandible, and surrounds the necks of the teeth. The gums are composed of dense fibrous tissue, inseparably united to the periosteum and covered by mucous membrane. They are richly supplied witli bl(X)d-vessels, but sparsely with nerves, and are covered by stratified squamous epithelium. Around the neck—or more correctly the base of the crown—of eacli tooth, the gum forms a free overlapping collar, and at this part particularly it is closely beset with small papilla3, visiljle to the naked eye. In thickness it usually meastires from 1 to 2 mm. THK PALATE AND ISTHMUS FAUCIUM. The palate (palatum) is the term applied to the strongly-arched structure which forms the roof of the mouth, and projects posteriorly into the pharynx as a pliant fold, imperfectly dividing that cavity into two (Figs. 639 and 641)f Its anterior half or more has a foundation of l)one, and separates the nasal fossai from tlie mouth. This part is known as the hard palate. The posterior portion, which is free from bone, separates the naso-pharynx aliove, from the mouth and oral pharynx below, and is known as the soft palate. The hard palate (palatum durum, F'ig. 639) occupies the space within the upper dental arch, and is continuous with the gums in front and laterally, whilst behind it passes into the soft palate. It is formed by the palate processes of the superior maxillary and ])alate bones (F^ig. 652), covered liy periosteum, and by a layer of firm mucous membrane. Beneath this mucous membrane, particularly at the sides and in front, is found a considerable quantity of dense fibrous tissue, firmly united to the periosteum on the one hand and to the mucous membrane on the other. This dense tissue forms an effective protection for the palate, and, in addition to the palatine vessels and nerves, it contains in its posterior half a large nuinlier of racemose (palatine) glands. Ti'aversing the middle of the jmlate is seen a faint central ridge or raphe (Fig. 638), indicat ing its original development from two lateral halves. Behind, this raphe is cimtinued along the soft palate to tlie base of the uvula, and in front it ends in a slight elevation, the incisive pad or ])apilla palatina. From the anterior end of the raphe a series of transverse ridges of mucous mendjrane, about six in number, run outwards, just behind the incisor teeth ; tliey are known as the palatine rugse, and are composed of dense fibrous tissue. Sometimes a small pit, which will admit the point of a pin, is seen on each side immediately behind the central incisor teeth, and about 2 mm. from the middle line. Tliese pits correspond to the lower 0])enings of Stenson's canals, with which they are occasionally cnntinunus. The soft palate (palatum moUe, or velum pendulum palati. Fig. 639) is a movable valve-like fold which runs oliliquely downwards and liackwards, like the " tongue" of a whistle, across the cavity of the pharynx almost as far as its posterior wall. Whilst it is attached to the hard ])alate in front, and blends with the pharyngeal walls laterally, its posterior border is free, and l)etween it and the posterior wall of the pharynx is left a valvular passage—the isthmus of the pharynx—through which the naso-pharynx and the fa-al pliiirynx communicate with one another. The soft palate is composed of two layers of mucous membrane between which are contained the palatine muscles, vessels, nerves, and connective tisstie, the aponeurosis of the palate, and, in addition, a very large ntimber of racemose glands. These glands are arranged in a thick continuous layer on the inferior surface beneath the mucous membrane, and form quite one-lialf of the mass of the soft palate