677 NASAL FOSS^. Nasal process of superior maxilla Fig. 485.—Profile View of the Bony and Cauti- LAGiNODS Skeleton of the Nose. Continuous with its postero-superior angle are two or three small carti- laginous pieces (cartilagines alares uiinores), while sometimes a horizon- tal furrow cuts off a narrow linear part from its upper aspect. The lower edge of the outer plate does not reach down as far as the lateral boundary of the nostril, the ala being devoid of cartilage and composed merely of fatty and connective tissue covered by skin. The inner plate, or crus mediale (Fig. 487), bounds the inner aspect of the nostril and lies in the septum mobile nasi, below the anterior part of the carti- lage of the septum. The mesial plates of the two cartilages are separ- ated in front by a notch, which con^esponds with the point of the nose, and each curves slightly out- wards posteriorly and ends in a rounded extremity. NASAL FOSS^. The nasal fossae (Fig. 488) are two in number and are placed one on each side of the middle line. They extend from the anterior to the posterior nares or choanse, and open through the latter into the naso-pharynx. Their bony boundaries are described in the section on Osteology (p. 158). On - the lateral wall of each are found the orifices of the frontal, eth- moidal, sphenoidal, and maxillary sinuses, together with that of the nasal duct. Immediately above the aperture of the nostril is a slightly ex- panded area, the vestibule (vesti- bulum nasi). This is bounded externally by the lower lateral cartilage, and, internally, by the lower part of the septum, and is prolonged towards the tip of the nose as a small pouch, termed the ventricle. Partly subdivided by a curved ridge, the vestibule is lined by skin and contains hairs and sebaceous glands. The hairs, or vibrissae, springing from its lower half, are stout and curved down- wards to guard the entrance to the nostril. The upper part of the vestibule is smooth and is limited above and behind by a slightly- marked arched prominence, the limen nasi, beyond which the fossa is lined by mucous membrane. Nasal bone Nasal process of superior maxilla Upper lateral cartilage Cartilage of septum Sesamoid cartilage Lower lateral cartilage Crus laterale Crus mediale Fig. 486.—Front View of the Bony and Cartilaginous Skeleton of the Nose.