587 ULNAE NEEVE. are placed superfcial to the digital arteries, and are distributed to the sides and front of the fingers. Each nerve supplies one or more dorsal branches, which supply the skin on the dorsal aspect of the terminal phalanx of the thumb and tlie two distal phalanges of the first two and a half fingers, thus making up for the deficiency of the radial nerve in these situations. Ulnar Nerve. The ulnar nerve (n. ulnaris) arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, from the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves. In the axilla it lies between the axillary artery and vein, and behind the internal cutaneous nerve; in the upper half of the upper arm it lies on the inner side of the brachial artery in front of the triceps muscle. In the lower half of the arm it is separated from the brachial artery; and passing behind the intermuscular septum, and in front of the inner head of the triceps in company with the inferior profunda artery, it reaches the^ - interval between the internal condyle of the humerus and the olecranon process. It is here protected by an arch of deep fascia stretching between the internal condyle and the olecranon process. It enters the forearm between the humeral and ulnar origins of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and courses downwards between the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor profundus digitorum. In the lower half of the forearm it becomes comparatively siiperficial, lying on the inner side of the ulnar artery beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. Just above the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and external to the pisiform bone, it pierces the deep fascia in company with the artery and passes into the hand over the anterior annular ligament. Eeaching the palm it divides beneath the palmaris brevis muscle into its two terminal branches. Oommunications. — (1) The ulnar nerve communicates iu some cases with the median nerve in the forearm ; (2) with the internal cutaneous and sometimes the median nerve by its palmar cutaneous branch ; (3) with the cutaneous part of the median nerve in the palm by means of its terminal cutaneous branch; (4) with the radial nerve on the dorsum of the hand by means of its dorsal branch. Branches.—The ulnar nerve gives off no branches till it reaches the forearm. In the forearm it gives off articular, muscular, and cutaneous branches. The articular branch is distributed to the elbow joint and arises as the nerve passes behind the internal condyle. The muscular branches arise as soon as the nerve enters the forearm. They are distributed to the muscles between which the ulnar nerve lies—the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. The cutaneous branches are two in nvmiber, palmar and dorsal. The palmar cutaneous branch is variable in size and position. It pierces the deep fascia in the lower third of the forearm and passes to the hypothenar eminence and palm of the hand, to which it is distributed. It gives branches to the ulnar artery, and communicates often with the internal cutaneous and palmar branch of the median nerve. The dorsal cutaneous branch is much larger (Fig. 43.3, p. 588). It arises from the ulnar nerve in the middle third of the forearm; and, directed obliquely downwards and backwards beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi idnaris, it becomes cutaneous on the inner side of the forearm in its lower fourth. It passes on to the back of the hand, and after giving off branches to the skin of the wrist and hand, which com- municate with the. radial- nerve, it terminates in two branches, to supply the little finger and half the^ring-finger in the following way :—the inner branch courses along the inner side of the dorsum of the hand and little finger : the outer branch subdivides at the cleft between the ring and little fingers to supply the adjacent sides of these fingers; this branch communicates with the radial nerve. The nerve may supply two and a half fingers on the dorsum of the hand. In the palm the ulnar nerve supplies a small muscular branch to the palmaris brevis muscle, and then subdivides into its terminal branches, which are named superficial and deep.