418 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. His remarks, tlie nerve-cell is therefore the genetic centre from which all the parts of a nervous element proceed. It must now be clear that each nerve-cell is a unit which is separate and distinct from the nerve-cells which lie around it. Further, it is obvious that it is wrong to consider the nerve-cell as something apart from the nerve-fibre. The nerve-cell with its dendrites and axon, however wide-spreading these processes may be, con- stitutes an independent system to which tlie term neuron is applied, and the only relation which it has with other neurons or with peripheral tissues is one of contact. Ganglionic Nerve-Cells.—The ganglionic neurons found in the ganglia of the cranial nerves and in the ganglia on the dorsal roots of the spinal nerves have a different origin, and present many points of contrast with neurons in the gray matter of the brain and cord. As already indicated in the chapter on Embryology (p. 20) llie ganglia in question are derived from the neural crest. The cells forming these ganglionic masses are somewhat oval in form, and from either extremity or pole a process grows out, and the neurons in this manner become bipolar. These processes are dis- tinguished as central and peripheral, according to the direction which tliey take. The central processes grow inwards, and penetrate the wall of the neural tube. Jn the region of the spinal cord they form almost the whole of the fibres which enter into the composition of the dorsal roots of the spinal nerves. lu the substance of the cerebrospinal axis they give off' numerous collaterals, and after a course of varying extent they end, after the manner of an axon, in terminal arborisations, which enter into relationships of contact with certain nerve-cells in the cerebi'ospinal axis. The peripheral processes grow outwards along the path of the • particular nerve with which they are associated, and they finally establish peri- pheral contact relations. Thus, to take- one example: the majority of the fibres which go to the skin break up into fine terminal fila- ments, which end freely between the epithelial cells of the epidermis. The two processes of a ganglion cell, therefore, form the afferent fibres of the cerebrospinal nerves, and con- stitute the path along which the influence of peripheral impressions is conducted towards the brain and cord. The body of the cell is as it were interposed in the path of such impulses. But the original bipolar character of these cells, with very few exceptions (ganglia in connexion with the auditory nerve and the bipolar nerve-cells in the olfactory mucous membrane), gradually undergoes a change which ultimately leads to their transformation into unipolar cells. This is brought about by the tendency which the cell-body has to grow to one side, viz. the side towards the surface of the ganglion (v. Lenliossek). This unilateral growth leads to a gradual approximation of the attached ends of the processes, and finally to a condition in which they appear to arise from the extremity of a short common stalk in a T-shaped manner (Fig. 312). It is interesting to note that the original bipolar condition of these cells is retained throughout life witliout change in certain fish. Both the central and peripheral processes of these ganglionic cells become the axis cylinders of nerve-fibres, which, acquiring a medullary sheath, belong therefore to the medullated variety. From this it might very naturally be thought that the Fig. 311.—Diagram of the Connexion estab- lished BY A Ganglionic and a Motor Neuron (Ramon y Cajal). A. Fibre coming down from a pyramiilal cell in the motor area of the cei-ebral cortex. B. Motor cell in gray matter of spinal cord. C. Mnscle-libres. D. Collateral brancli from the pyramidal fibre. E. Cell in the medulla oblongata seuding its axon upwards to the cerebral cortex. F. Cells in spinal ganglion. G. Peripheral process ofganglionic cell ending in skin. I. Collateral branches of central process of gan- glionic cell. S.N. Spinal nerve.