676 THE OEGANS OF-SENSE. border is tliick and is fixed above to the back of the internasal suture ; below the level of the nasal bones it is continued, on either side, into the upper lateral cartilages, which may be looked upon as its wing-like expansions. The lower part of this Fig. 484.—Later.vl View of Nasal Septum. Ijorder is separated by a furrow from the upper lateral cartilages and extends down- wards between the inferior lateral cartilages, to which it is attached by fibrous tissue. In this fibrous tissue a small sesamoid cartilage is usually seen on each side of the middle line. Its antero-inferior border is short and is attached by fibrous tissue to the mesial plates of the lower lateral cartilages, while its anterior angle is rounded and does not reach as far as the point of the nose. The lowest part of the nasal septum is not formed by the septal cartilage, but by the mesial plates of the lower lateral cartilages and by the integument, and, being freely movable, is termed the septum mobile nasi. The cartilage of the septum may be prolonged backwards (especially in children) as a tongue-like process into the angle between the vomer and ethmoid. This process, varying in width from 4-6 mm., is named the processus sphenoidalis septi cartilaginei, and sometimes reaches as far as the body of the sphenoid. Lying along the lower edge of the cartilage of the septum, and best seen on making a coronal section of the nose, are a couple of elongated cartilaginous strips. Each measures from 6-12 mm. in length, is attached to the vomer, and is named the vomerine cartilage (cartilago vomeronasahs, Jacobsoni). The upper lateral cartilage (cartilago nasi laterahs. Figs. 485, 486) is triangular in shape and situated immediately below the nasal bone, to which and to the superior maxilla its thin posterior border is attached. Its anterior edge is thick and its upper part is directly continuous with the cartilage of the septum. Its lower margin is joined liy filirous tissue to the upper edge of the lower lateral cartilage. The lower lateral cartilage (cartilago alaris major. Figs. 485, 486, 487) encircles the anterior part of the nostril and assists in keeping it open. It consists of two plates, outer and inner, which are continuous with each other in a rounded angle at the point of the nose. The outer plate, or crus laterale, is oval in shape and is attached to the upper lateral cartilage and to the superior maxilla by filji'ous tissue.