THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. 326 Ligainentuni breve Ligamentum (3) The radial origin is from the oblique line and middle third of the outer border of the radius by a thin fil)ro-muscular attachment. The muscle separates in the lower third of the forearm into four parts, each provided with a separate tendon which passes beneath the anterior annular liga- ment, crosses the palm of the hand, and enters the corresponding digital sheath. Within the digital sheath each tendon is split into two parts by the tendon of the flexor profundus digitorum; after surrounding that tendon the two parts are partially reunited on its deep surface, and are inserted, after partial decussa,tion, in two portions into the sides of the second phalanx. The vincula accessoria form additional insertions of the muscle. They consist of the ligamenta longa and brevia. The ligamentum breve is a triangular band of fibres occupying the interval l)etween the tendon and the digit for a short distance close to the insertion. It is attached to the front of the inter-phalangeal articu- lation and the head of the first phalanx. The ligamentum longum is a long narrow band extending from the back of the tendon to the upper part of the anterior surface of the first phalanx. The flexor sublimis digitorum muscle is partially concealed in the forearm by the other more superficial muscles of this group, and by the radial vessels and nerve. It conceals the deeper muscles of the forearm, the median nerve, and the ulnar artery. Its inner border is in contact with the flexor carpi ulnaris, and in the lower half of the forearm with the ulnar vessels and nerve. The median nerve emerges at its outer border above the wrist, and separates the muscle from the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. At the wrist the four tendons are arranged in pairs, those for the middle and ring fingers in front, those for the fore and little fingers behind, and are enveloped in a synovial sheath along with the tendons of the flexor profundus digi- torum beneath the anterior annular ligament. In the palm the tendons separate, and lying beneath the superficial palmar arch, conceal the tendons of the deep flexor and the lumbrical muscles. Within the digital sheaths on the fingers the tendons at first conceal those of the deep flexor; after being pierced by them, they are in turn concealed by these tendons at their insertion. Deep Muscles. The deep muscles on the front of the forearm are three in number: flexor profundus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, and pronator quadratus. The flexor profundus digitorum is a large muscle arising from the ulna, the interosseous membrane, and the deep fascia of the forearm. Its ulnar origin is from the anterior and inner surfaces of the bone, extending up so as to include the inner side of the olecranon process, and embrace the insertion of the l)rachialis anticus into the coronoid process. It arises external to tlie ulna from the inner half of the interosseous membrane in its middle third, and internally from the deep fascia of the forearm behind the origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The muscle forms a broad thick tendon iwhich passes beneath the anterior annular ligament, and divides in the palm into four tendons for insertion into the terminal phalanges of the fingers. The tendon associated with the fore finger is usually separate from the rest of the tendons in its whole length. Each tendon enters Li;^amentum breve Flexor sublimis digitorum f ^i-y-Expansion of extensor tendon Flexor profundus > ;\ \ digitorum First lumbrical muscle First dorsal inter- osseous MUSCLE Extensor indicis tendon Extensor communis digitorum tendon Fig. 242.—The Tendons attached to the Index Finger.