249 STKUCTUEE OF JOINTS. Articular cartilage Joint capsule Synovial membrane cartilage coating each of the opposing surfaces of the bones concerned. All the joints belonging to this group occur in the mesial plane of the body. It includes the symphysis pubis, the joints between the bodies of the vertebrse, and the joint between the manubrium sterni and the gladiolus. A diarthrosis (Fig. 196) is the most elaborate as well as the most complete form of articulation. It is characterised by (a) capability of movement which is more or less free in its range; (&) a reduction of the uniting structures to a series of retaining liga- ments; (c) a joint cavity which is only limited by the surrounding ligaments; {d) the constant presence of synovial membrane; (e) hyaline encrusting cartilage which clothes the opposed surfaces of the articulating bones. The majority of the joints in the adult belongs to this group. This series of joints has been subdivided into a number of minor sections, in order to emphasise the occurrence of certain well-marked structural features, or because of the particular nature of the move- ment by which they 'are characterised. Although in all diarthroses there is a certain amount of gliding movement between the opposed surfaces of the bones which enter into their formation, yet, when this gliding movement becomes their prominent feature, as in most of the joints of the carpus and tarsus, they are termed arthrodia. But bones may be articulated together so as to permit of movement in one, two, or more fixed axes of movement, or in modifications of these axes. Thus in uniaxial joints the axis of movement may lie in the longi- tudinal axis of the joint, in which case the rotatory form of joint results, as in the superior and inferior radio-ulnar articulations; or it may correspond with the transverse axis of the articulation, as in the elbow-joint and knee-joint, when the ginglymus or hinge variety results. If movement takes place about two principal axes situated at right angles to each other, as in the radio-carpal joint, the terms biaxial or condyloid are applied. Movements occurring about three principal axes placed at right angles to each other, or in modifications of these positions, con- stitute multiaxial joints, in which the associated structural peculiarities provide the alternative terms of enarthrodial or ball-and-socket joints. Articular cartilage Fig. 196.- -DlAGRAM OF A DiARTHRODIAL Joint. STRUCTURES WHICH ENTER INTO THE FORMATION OF JOINTS. The structures which enter into the formation of joints vary with the nature of the articulation. In every instance there are two or more skeletal elements, whether bones or cartilages, and in addition there are the uniting media, which are either simple or elaborate according to the provision made for rendering the joint more or less rigid or capable of movement. We have already seen that the uniting medium in synarthrodial joints is a remnant of the common matrix, whether fibro- vascular membrane or hyaline cartilage, in which ossification has extended from separate centres. Among the araphiarthroses there is still extensive union between the opposing surfaces of the articulating bones, but the character of the uniting medium has advanced from the primitive embryonic tissue to fibrous and fibro- cartilaginous material, as well as hyaline cartilage. These, with very few exceptions, are permanent, non-ossifying substances, such as may be seen between the opposing osseous surfaces of two vertebral bodies. The joint cavity, more or less rudimentary, is confined to the centre of the fibro-cartilaginous plate, and may result from the softening or imperfect cleavage of the central tissue. It may also present rudiments of a synovial membrane. In the diarthrodial group the extensive cavity has produced great interruption in the continuity of the uniting structures which originally existed between the bones forming such a joint. Ligaments have therefore additional importance in this group, for not only do they constitute the uniting media which bind the