1114 UEOGENITAL SYSTEM. branches from the internal inidic and sciatic nerves reach the scrotum from behind, wliile the ilio-inguinal su^jplies its upper and anterior part. THE PENIS. The penis is composed chiefly of erectile tissue, aud is traversed by the canal of the urethra. The surface nearest to which the canal of the urethra lies is called the under or urethral surface (facies urethralis); the opposite and more extensive aspect is the dorsum penis. The erectile tissue is for the most part disposed in three longitudinal cohmms, which in the body of the organ are placed side by side, while at the root of the penis they separate from one another, and become attached to the triangular ligament and pubic arch. Two of these masses of erectile tissue, placed one on each side of the middle line, and forming the dorsum and sides of the penis, are called the corpora cavernosa (corpora cavernosa Corpus ca\"ernosuiii- Corpus spongiosum Crus ireiiis- ISulbus uretbr;i - Tuber iscliii- Fii:. 761.—Dissection to illustrate the Component Pahts op the Penis. On the right .side of the figure the muscles of the thigh have been reflected down to the plane of the obturator e.xternus. The letters TL are placed upon tlie trianguhir ligament. penis), while the third, which is called the corpus spongiosum (corpus cavernosum urethrte), is situated mesially near the urethral surface. The corpus spongiosum is the part of the penis which is traversed by the urethra, and it is considerably smaller than the corpora cavernosa which form the chief bulk of the organ. In the body of the penis (corpus penis) each corpus cavernosum is placed close to the mesial plane, aud presents a rounded surface, except where it is flattened and in contact with its fellow of the opposite side. The corpora cavernosa are separated on the anterior (dorsal) surface by a shallow groove, and on the posterior (urethral) aspect by a deeper and wider furrow, in which lies the corpus spongiosum (Fig. 762). Towards the distal end of the penis the corpus spongiosum becomes expanded, and, spreading towards the dorsal surface of the organ, forms a kind of conical cap which covers over tlie blunt rouuded terminations of the corpora cavernosa. The terminal expansion of the corpus spongiosum is termed the glans penis, and is traversed by the urethra. The prominent margin of the glans, called the corona glandis, projects dorsally and laterally beyond the extremities of the corpora cavernosa. The slit-like opening at the summit of the glans, where the urethra terminates, is termed the meatus urinarius, or external urethral ovitice.