THE TEMPOKAL BONES. 117 that by the end of the sixth month the individual centres are more or less fused, these, one which appears in the vicinity of the eminentia arcuata is the most definite position and form ; from this Of Osseous Eustachian canal Styloid process broken off Glenoid fossa Groove for menibrana tympani External auditory meatus Mastoid air-cells Carotid canal Tympanum ■Cochlea iternal auditory meatus estibule, fenestra ovalis cut across Superior semicircular canals Aquseductus Fallopii External semicircular canal Fig. 90.- -HoRizoNTAL Section through Left Temporal Bone (Lower Half of Section). a lamina of bone of spiral form is developed, which covers in the inner limb of the superior semicircular canal, and forms the roof of the internal auditory meatus, together with the commence- ment of the Fallopian aque- duct. Keaching forwards, it extends to the apex of the petrous part; whilst exter- nally it forms part of the inner wall of the tympanum, surrounds the fenestra ovalis, and encloses within its sub- stance portions of the coch- lea, vestibule, and superior semicircular canal. Another centre appears in the vicinity of the promontory on the inner wall of the tympanum, surrounds the fenestra rotunda, forms the floor of the vestibule, and extends in- wards to complete the floor of the internal auditory meatus. Surrounding the cochlea inferiorly and exter- nally, it completes the floor of the tympanum, and ultimately blends with the fore and under part of the tympanic ring. The carotid canal at first grooves it, and is then subsequently surrounded by it. According to Lambertz the lamina spiralis of the cochlea ossifies in membrane. The roof of the tympanum is formed from a separate centre, which extends backwards towards the superior semicircular canal, and encloses the tympanic part of the aqueduct of Fallopius; externally this centre unites by suture with the squamosal, and sends down a thin process, which appears between the lips of the Glaserian fissure, and forms the outer wall of the Eustachian tube. Nuclei, either single or multiple, appear in the base of the petrous part, and envelop the posterior and external semicircular canals. It is by extension from this part that the mastoid process is ultimately deve- loped. To these centres the terms pro-otic, opisthotic, pterotic, and epiotic, i-espectively, have been applied by Huxley and others. The styloid process, an independent develop- ment from the upper end of the cartilage of the second visceral arch, is ossified from two centres. The upper or basal appears before birth, and rapidly unites with the petro- mastoid, the tympanic plate encircling it in front. This represents the tympanohyal of comparative anatomy. At birth, or subsequent to it, another centre appears in the cartilage below the above : this is the stylohyal. Ankylosis usually occurs in adult life between the tympanohyal and stylohyal, the union of the two constituting the so-called styloid process of human anatomy. The centre from which the squamo-zygomatic develops appears in membrane about the end of the second month. Situated near the root of the zygoma, it extends forwards and outwards into that process, inwards to form the floor of the glenoid fossa, and upwards into the squamosal. From this latter there is a downward and backward exten- sion, which forms the post-auditory process ; this ultimately blends with the posterior limb of the tympanic ring, being separated from it in the adult by the auricular fissure. It forms the outer wall of the mastoid antrum, and constitutes the fore and upper part of the mastoid process in the adult. About the third month a centre appears in the outer membranous wall of the tympanum : from this the tympanic ring is developed. Incom- plete above, it displays two free extremities. Of these, the anterior is somewhat enlarged, and unites in front with the glenoid portion of the squamo-zygomatic, being separated from it by the Glaserian fissm-e and the downgrowth from the tegmen tympani; the 8 b