456 THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM. which traverse it in different directions and convert it into a formatio reticularis. By this means the rounded head of the posterior horn becomes cut off from the central gray matter, and from this point upwards it remains as an isolated gray column intimately associated with tlie spinal root of the trigeminal nerve. Tlie gracile and cuneate nuclei take shape before the decussation of the pyramids is fully completed (Fig. .'336). The gracile nucleus appears in the form of a small irregular mass of gray matter in the interior of the funiculus gracilis, which gradually infiltrates the entire strand. At first it is not directly connected with the gray matter which surrounds the central canal; but as it is traced upwards it increases in bulk, absorbs more of the strand in wluch it lies, and such a connexion becomes established (Figs. ooT and .").38). The cuneate nucleus, from the first, is a direct offshoot from that part of the base of the posterior horn of gray matter which is preserved as a portion of the central gray mass. In transverse section it is seen to invade the funiculus cuneatus upon its deep aspect, and it gradually grows backwards into its substance. It presents a very different appearance from tlie gracile nucleus, because tliroughout its whole length the gray nucleus and the fibres of the strand are separated from each other by a sharp line of demarcation. A second and much smaller mass of gray matter appears in the funiculus cuneatus, superficial to the main nucleus, soon after the region of the decussation of the pyi'amids is left. This is termed the accessory or the external cuneate nucleus (Fig. .338). Gradually the fibres of the gracile and cuneate strands become absorbed in these nuclei. As the gray masses gain in size a corresponding diminution in the number of fibres composing the corresponding tracts is observed until, at the level of the clava and cuneate tubercles, it is seen that these eminences are composed almost entirely of the gray nuclei, covered by a thin skin of the few remaining fibres of the two strands in- volved. It is ex- tremely doubtful if any fibres belonging to the funiculus gracilis and funi- culus cuneatus get beyond these nuclei. They apparently all end in fine terminal ramifications around the cells of the nuclei. In the case of the funiculus cuneatus the bundles of fibres, as they pass from the surface into the subjacent gray nucleus, are very distinctly seen in transverse sections through the medulla. When the medulla oblongata opens up into the fourth ventricle the gracile and cuneate nuclei are pushed outwards by the expanding ventricular floor, and the gracile nucleus soon comes to an end; but the cuneate nucleus extends upwards for a short distance further, and only terminates when the restiform body begins to take definite sliape on its outer aspect. Decussation of the Fillet (decussatio lemniscorum).—Immediately above the level of tlie decussation of the pyramids another decussation of fibres in the median plane, and upon the dorsal aspect of the pyramids, takes place in the substance of the medulla. This is teimed the decussation of the fillet, or the sensory decussation, in contradistinction to the term " motor decussation," which is sometimes applied to the decussation of the pyramids, The fibres which take part in this decussation