997 THE PEEITONEUM. pelvic fascia. These muscles pass on each side, from the lateral wall of the pelvis, down- wards and inwards towards the middle line, and present a concave upper surface towards the pelvic cavity. Subdivision of the Abdomen Proper.—Owing to the large size of the cavity, and in order to localise more correctly the position of the various organs contained within it, the abdomen proper is artificially subdivided by two horizontal and two vertical lines (Fig. 671) drawn on its anterior wall. Erom these lines imaginary planes are supposed to be continued backwards, which divide up the cavity into nine regions. Of the two horizontal lines, one is drawn around the trunk at the level of the lower border of the tenth costal cartilage; this is known as the subcostal line, and the imaginary plane corresponding to it, as the subcostal plane. The second horizontal line is drawn at the level of the highest point of each iliac crest, visible from the front; this point corresponds to the tubercle seen on the outer lip of the crest, about two inches behind the anterior superior spine, and can be easily located; the line and plane are consequently known as the intertubercular line and plane respectively. The vertical lines are drawn, one on each side, perpendicularly upwards from a point on Poupart's ligament midway between the anterior superior spine and the symphysis pubis. These lines and the corresponding planes are known as the Poupart lines and planes respectively. By the two horizontal lines the abdomen is divided into three zones, an upper or costal, a middle or umbilical, and a lower or hypogastric zone. By the two perpendicular lines each of these is subdivided into three parts, a central and two lateral. Thus, in the upper zone, we get a hypochondriac region or hypochondrium on each side, and an epigastric region or epigastrium in the centre. Similarly, the umbilical zone is divided into right and left lumbar regions, with an umbilical region between. And the hypogastric zone has a hypogastric region or hypogastrium in the centre, with right and left iliac regions at the sides. In addition, the portion of the abdominal wall above the pubis is known as the piihic region, and that immediately above Poupart's ligaments, as the inguinal region. The three central divisions, namely, the epigastric, umbilical, and hypogastric regions, can conveniently be further subdivided by the mesial plane, passing through the middle of the body, into right and left halves. The upper horizontal, or subcostal, plaiie passes behind, tlirougli the upper part of the third hnnbar vertebra, or tlie disc between the second and third lumbar vertebrre. Tlie intertubercular plane cuts through the middle or upper part of the fifth lumbar vertebra. The lower margin of tlie tenth costal cartilage frequently corresponds to the most dependent part of the thoracic framework. Often, however, the eleventh costal cartilage descends j to ^ inch lower. Nevertheless, the tenth cartilage is selected in drawing the subcostal jjlane, for two chief reasons, namely, it is visible from the front as a rule, and it is comparatively fixed, whilst the eleventh J being a floating rib, is much more movable, is varialile in length, and more ditticult to locate. Contents of the Abdomen.—The following structures are found within the abdominal cavity:— 1. The greater part of the alimentary canal, viz. stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. 2. Digestive glands: the liver and pancreas. 3. Ductless glands: the spleen and the two suprarenal bodies. 4. Urinary apjjaratus: the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and part of urethra. 5. The internal generative organs according to the sex. 6. Blood and lymph vessels, and lymphatic glands. 7. Tlie abdominal portion of the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic nervous systems. 8. Certain/aiaZ remains. 9. The peritoneum—the serous membrane which lines tlie cavity, and is reflected over most of its contained viscera. ■ THE PERITONEUM. The arrangement of the peritoneum is so complicated, anil its relations to the abdominal contents so intricate and detailed, that it will be expedient to postpone