OSTEOLOGY. 212 Flattened aud compressed, it unites with the inferior ramus of the ischium, and thus encloses the thyroid foramen, whilst in correspondence with its fellow of the opposite side it completes the formation of the pubic arch. Anteriorly it furnishes origins for the gracilis, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus muscles, as well as some of the fibres of the obturator externus muscle. Its inner surface is smooth, whilst its lower border, rounded or more or less everted, has attached to it the fore-part of the crus penis and the sub-pubic ligament. The acetabulum or cotyloid cavity is the nearly circular hollow in which the head of the thigh bone fits. As has been already stated, it is formed by the fusion of the ilium and ischium and pubis in the following proportions: the ilium a little less than two-fifths, the ischium somewhat more than two-fifths, the pubis con- stituting the remaining one-fifth. It is so placed as to be directed downwards, outwards, and forwards, and is surrounded by a prominent margin, to which the capsule and cotyloid ligament of the hip-joint are attached. Opposite the obturator foramen this margin is interrupted by the cotyloid notch (incisura acetabuli); immediately external to the ilio-pectineal eminence the margin is slightly hollowed, whilst occasionally there is a feeble notching of the border above and behind. These irregularities in the outline of the margin correspond to the lines of fusion of the ilium and pubis and the ilium and ischium respectively. The fioor of the acetabulum is furnished with a horseshoe-shaped articular surface, which lines the circumference of the hollow, except in front, wliere it is interrupted by the cotyloid notch. It is Inroad above; narrower in front and below. Within this articular surface there is a more or less circular rough area (fossa acetabuli) continuous in front and below with the floor of the cotyloid notch. This, some- what depressed below the surface of the articular area, lodges a quantity of fat, and provides accommodation for the interarticular ligament of the joint. As may be seen by holding the bone up to the light, the floor of this part of the acetabulum is not usually of great thickness. The major part of the non-articular area is formed by the ischium, which also forms the floor of the cotyloid notch. The thyroid or obturator foramen (foramen obturatum) lies in front of, below, and internal to the acetabulum. The margins of this opening, which are formed in front and above by the pubis, and behind and below by the ischium, are sharp and thin, except above, where the under surface of the superior ramus of the pubis is channelled by the obturator groove. Below, and on either side of this groove, two tubercles can usually be seen. The one, situated on the edge of the ischium, just in front of the cotyloid notch, is named the posterior obturator tubercle (tuberculum obturatorium posterius); the other, placed on the lower Ijorder of the inner surface of the superior ramus of the pubis, is called the anterior obturator tubercle (tuberculum obturatorium anterius). Between these two tubercles there passes a ligamentous band, which converts the groove into a canal along which the obturator vessels and nerve pass. Elsewhere in the fresh condition the obturator or thyroid membrane stretches across the opening from margin to margin. The form of the foramen varies much, being oval in some specimens, in others more i:?^rly triangular; its relative width in the female is greater than the male. Nutrient foramina for the ihum are seen on tlie floor of the iliac fo!^.sa, just in front of tlie sacro-auricular surface ; on the jjelvic aspect of the bone, close to the great sciatic notch ; and on the gluteal surface externally, near the centre of the middle curved line. For the ischium, on its pelvic surface, and also externally on the groove below the acetabulum. For the pubis, on the surface of the body, and deeply also from the acetabular fossa. Connexions.—The innominate bone articulates with the sacrum behind, with the femur to the outer side and below, and with its fellow of the ojjposite side internally and in front. Each of its three parts comes into direct relation with the surface. Above, the iliac ci-est assists in forming the iliac furrow, which serves to separate the region of the flank from that of the buttock. In front, the anterior superior iliac spine forms a definite landmark ; whilst behind, the posterior superior iliac spines will be found to correspond with dimples situated on either side of the middle line of the root of the back. The symphysis, the crest, and sjjine of the pubis can all be distinguished in front, though overlain by a consideralile quantity of fat, whilst the position of the tubei'osities of the ischia, when uncover'ed by the great gluteal muscles in the flexed ])osition of the thigh, can readily be a.scertained. In the j^erineal regicjn the outline of the pubic and ischial rami can'easily be determined by digital examination.