588 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. The superficial branch is purely cutaneous; it passes downwards beneath the pahnar fascia, and subdivides into an inner and an oiiter branch. The inner branch courses along the inner l)order of the little finger, which it supplies on its palmar aspect. The outer branch be- comes superficial at the cleft between the fourth and fifth fingers, between the slips of the palmar fascia, and subdivides into two branches which supply the adjacent sides of these fingers on their palmar aspect. It com- municates with the adjacent digital branch of the median nerve. The deep branch is purely muscular. It separates from the superficial branch, and passes deeply between the fiexor brevis and abductor minimi digiti muscles; it supplies these miascles and the opponens minimi digiti, and, turning outwards along the line of the deep palmar arch and under cover of the deep flexor tendons, it supplies branches to the following muscles: the in- terossei, two inner (third and fourth) lumbricales (on their deep sur- of the flexor brevis Fig. 433. -The Distribution of Cutaneous Nerves on the Back of the Arm and Hand. (A) represents tlie di.stribution of the several nerves, the letters indicating their nomenclature. AcR, Acromial branches (cervical plexus) ; CiRC, Cutaneous branch of circumflex nerve ; Ms.E.C.s, Ms.E.C.i, Superior and inferior external cntaneous branches of musculo-spiral nerve ; M.C, Muscnlo-cutaneous nerve ; R, Radial nerve ; M, Branches of median nerve to fingers ; U, Ulnar nerve ; I.C, Internal cutaneous nerve ; Ms.I.C, Internal cutaneous branch of musculo- spiral nerve ; L.I.C, Lesser internal cutaneous nerve (Wrisberg) ; I.E. Inter- costodiunieral ; T.l, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, Lateral and posterior branches of upper thoracic nerves. (B) is a schematic representation of the areas supplied by the above nerves, the lettering indicating the spinal origin of the branches of distribution to each area. D.A.L, Dorsal axial line. faces), the adductores, obliquus and transversus, and deep part pollicis. Internal Cutaneous Nerve. The internal cutaneous nerve (n. cutaneus brachii medialis) arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, from the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves (Figs. 432 and 433). In the axilla and upper half of the arm it lies superficial to the main arteries. It becomes cutaneous by piercing the deep fascia about the middle of the inner side of the upper arm, and, accompanying the basilic vein