1123 THE OVAIJY. ligaments of the ovary do not hold the organ firmly fixed in any definite place, still the position occupied by the ovary within the pelvic cavity is fairly constant. The length of the ovary is usually between one and one and a half inches, and the thickness from side to side between a quarter and half-an-inch. In the ovary we recognise two poles or extremities—an upper pole, larger and -' more rounded than the somewhat pointed lower 'pole. The term tubal pole (extre- mitas tubaria) is applied to the upper end of the ovary, as it is most intimately connected with the Fallopian tube; the term uterine pole (extremitas uterina.) is used with reference to the lower extremity, since tliis part of the ovary is con- nected with the uterus by a fibrous cord, termed the ligament of the ovary. The flattened surfaces of the ovary are called inte7'nal (facies medialis) and external (facies lateralis), and the borders separating them anterior (margo mesovaricus) and 2)osterior (margo lil^er). The posterior border is convex and free; while the anterior one, which is straighter and narrower, is connected by a very short peri- toneal fold (mesovarium) with the posterior layer of the broad ligament of the uterus. The vessels and nerves enter ' the ovary by this anterior border, which is therefore often termed the hilus of the ovary. Position and Relations of the Ovary.—When tlie ovary occupies its most . usual position the long axis of the gland is vertical. Its outer or lateral surface Fit!. 770.—Side Wall of the Ficmale Pelvis, showing the pcsitiou of the ovary and its reLation to the Fallopian tube. The pelvis has been cut iu section parallel to, but at some distance from, the mesial plane. Drawn from a specimen iu the Anatomical Department, Trinity College, Dublin. lies against the side wall of the pelvis, and its inner surface looks inwards towards the pelvic cavity. The peritoneum of the pelvic wall, where the ovary lies against it, is depressed to form a little fossa termed the fossa ovarica, within which the ovary is placed. The upper pole of the ovary lies below the level of the external iliac vessels, and its lower end is placed just above the level of the peritoneum covering the pelvic floor. The fossa ovarica, in which the ovary lies, extends as far forwards as the obliterated hypogastric artery, and backwards as far as the