1-zis SUKFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. The line of the tarso-metatarsal joints extends nearly 1 in. further forwards on the internal malleolus, at the anterior part of the hollow between it and the heel. In effusions into the anlde-joint the hollows in front and behind the malleoli are obliterated, and the extensor tendons are raised from the front of the joint. A finger's breadth below the tip of the internal malleolus is the sustentaculum tali; 1\ in. in front of the latter, and midway between the dorsal and plantar margins of the inner aspect of the foot, is the tubercle of the scaphoid (the inner landmark in Chopart's amputation), which is generally visible, and always distinctly palpal)le. The calcaneo-astragaloid joint lies immediately below tlie sustentaculum, while close alto\e it the tendon of the tibialis posticus may be rendered visible, as it extends from behind the tip of the internal malleolus to the tubercle of the scaphoid. An inch and a half in fnjnt of the' tu]tercle of the scaphoid is the joint between the internal cuneiform and the first metatarsal; the ridge at the base of the latter l)one furnishes a good guide to the articulation. The first metatarso-phalangeal joint lies a little in front of the middle of the liall of tlie great toe. A hnger's Ijreadth vertically lielow the tip of the external malleolus is the peroneal tubercle of the os calcis, and midway between the two is the calcaneo- astragaloid joint; the tubercle is, when present, a trustworthy guide to the level at which the two peronei tendons cross the outer surface of the os calcis. The greater process of the os calcis is felt in the triangular interval between the tendons of the j)eroneus brevis and tertius; the calcaneo-cuboid joint—the outer laiulniark in Chopart's amputation—is placed a little in front of the mid-point between the tip of the external malleolus and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. To open the outer tarso-metatarsal articulations, the knife, entered behind the projecting base of the fifth metatarsal bone, should l)e directed forwards as well as inwards. On the (.lorsum of the foot the tarsal juints are oltscured by the extensor tendons. The synovial membrane of the ankle-joint is prolonged on to the neck of the astragalus, and care must ))e taken to a^ oid opening the ankle-joint in performing Chopart's amputation. the inner than on the outer border of the foot; between these points the joint- line takes a zigzag course on account of the second metatarsal bone extending l)ackwards between the internal and external cuneiform bones. The joint Ijetween the second metatarsal and middle cuneiform is nearly h in. behind that between the first metatarsal and internal cuneiform, and nearly | in. behind that between the third metatarsal and the external cuneiform. The strong transverse inter- osseous ligament {Lisfranc's ligament), which connects the outer surface of the internal cuneiform with the base of the second metatarsal, must be divided in the tarso-metatarsal amputation of Lisfranc. In order to preserve the insertions of the two tibial and the tliree peroneal muscles it is advisable, when possible, instead of disarticulating at " Lisfranc's joint," to saw through the metatarsal bones just in front of their bases. J-'ic. b'll.—Inker Aspuct of Foot and Ankle.