1221 THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. the fascia propria is derived from the fascia transversalis of Hesselbach's triangle. The extra-peritoneal fat which covers the outer surface of the hernial sac is some- times hypertrophied to such an extent as to amount to a fatty tumour. In a large proportion of children at birth the funicular process of peritoneum, which connects the tunica vaginalis testis with the abdominal })eritoneum, especially on the right side, is still patent. Should the bowel force its way along the patent process a congenital inguinal hernia arises. In the majority of the cases of congenital inguinal hernia it will be found that the tunica vaginaKs testis has been shut off by closure of the lower part of the funicular process, only the upper part remaining patent and forming the sac of the hernia. In regard to the operation for the cure of inguinal hernia, it should be b(jrne in mind that in the acquired form the hernia pi'oduces tlie sac, whereas in the congenital variety the sac is the cause of the hernia; it follows, therefore, that in the operation for acquired hernia the closure of the canal is as important as the removal or obhtera- tion of the sac, while in a congenital hernia the most essential part of the operation is the closure of the neck of the sac, and as the muscular and fascial apparatus forming the walls of the canal are well developed, they should be interfered with as little as possible. A patent funicular process may persist during adult life without any bowel descending into it; on the other hand, years after birth bowel may suddenly enter it. In practically all oblique inguinal hernite, which develop suddenly in children as well as in adolescents and young adults, the sac is of congenital origin. Parallel to and at the level of the outer half of Poupart's ligament is the deep circumflex iliac artery. In dividing the abdominal wall to reach the structures in the iliac fossfe, the incision should be made in the angle between this vessel and the deep epigastric artery. To lessen the risk of ventral hernia the muscles should be split in the direction of their fibres—the aponeurosis of the external obhque from above downwards and inwards, the muscular fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis horizontally. An incision through the abdominal wall parallel to the outer border of the rectus has the great disadvantage of dividing the abdominal terminations of the lower intercostal nerves, which run parallel to a line extending from the tenth costal cartilage to the umbilicus. The middle line is the site usually selected by the surgeon to open the abdomen. The points of surgical importance to be noted in connexion with the linea alba are: (1) that its blood supply is scanty; (2) that it is considerably wider above than below the umbiUcus, where the two edges of the recti lie in close apposition; (3) that above the umbiHcus the fascia transversalis and linea alba are. adherent, so that the two form practically one membrane; (4) that the extra-peritoneal fat is more abundant beneath the linea alba than to either side of it; (5) that above the pubes the fascia transversalis recedes from the linea alba, leaving a triangular space occupied by fat which must not be mistaken for the extra-peritoneal fat. The posterior layer of the rectal sheath ceases at the fold of Douglas, which is situated one-third of the distance from the umbilicus to the pubes. The fieshy fibres of the transversalis muscles extend inwards for a considerable distance behind the upper part of the recti. THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. To simplify the topography of the abdominal viscera the abdomen is arbitraril}- divided into nine regions by two horizontal and two vertical planes. Of the two horizontal planes, the upper (infracostal) plane is at the level of the lowest part ol' the tenth costal cartilages; the lower (intertubercular) plane is at the level of the tubercular points of the iliac crests. The two vertical planes correspond upon the surface to a line drawn vertically upwards on either side from a point midwa}- between the anterior superior iliac spine and the pubic symphysis. Superiorly, these vertical planes generally strike the tip of the ninth costal cartilages. The subdivisions of the upper zone are termed the cpigasfric and right and left hypo- chondriac regions, of the middle zone the umhilical and right and left lumbar regions, of the lower zone the hj/jiogastric and right and left iliac regions. The epigastric,