OSTEOLOGY. 90 J Fig. 69.—Ossification of Sacrum. a a. Centres for bodies ; b.h. Epipliysial plates on bodies ; c.c. Centres for co.stal elements ; d.d. Centres for neural arches; e.e. Lateral epiphyses. developed. fusion of the odontoid with the body is defined by a small disc of cartilage which jjersists within the substance of the bone till an advanced period of life. A pair of epiphyses placed over the tubercles of the spine, if not always present, are at least frequent. Sacrum.—Each of the sacral segments is ossified from three centres : one for the body, and two for the neural arch—that for the body, which makes its appearance in the first three sacral vertebrte about the end of the third month, about the fifth to the eighth month for the last two segments. From the two centres for the neural arches, which make their appearance about the fifth or sixth month in the higher segments, the laminte, articular processes, and the posterior half of the alse on either side ai'e The spinal canal is not enclosed till the seventh to the tenth year, the laminre usually failing to meet in the lowest segment, and occasionally, to a greater or less extent, in some of the higher segments. The anterior part of the lateral masses is developed from separate centres which represent the costal elements (Gegenbauer). These appear about the sixth to the eighth month, and may develop in I'elation to the u])per four sacral segments; more usually they are met with in connexion with the first three, and exceptionally they may be found only in the upper two. It is by fusion of these with the posterior arches that the lateral masses which support the innominate bones are formed. The costal elements fuse about the second to the fiftli year with the neural arches, prior to their union with the centra; and the segments of the lateral masses unite with each other sooner than the union of the bodies is effected. The latter only takes place after puberty by the fusion of the epiphysial plates, a pair of which make their appearance between the centra of each segment. The lower segments begin to unite together about the eighteenth year, but fusion between the first and second sacral verte- bras is not completed till the twenty-fifth year or after. In addition to the foregoing, two- thin osseous lamina; are developed in the cartilage covering the outer surface of the alar mass. The upper of these overspreads the auricular surface, whilst the lower forms the sharp edge below. The extremities of the tipper spinous processes are occasionally developed from independent epiplwses. On making a mesial section of an adult bone the persistence of the intervertebral discs between the centra is indicated by a series of oval cavities. Coccygeal Vertebrae.—These are cartilaginous at birth. Each has a separate centre; the first appears from the first to the fourth year, the second from the sixth to- the tenth year, the third and fourth segments at or about puberty. Secondary centres, for the coccygeal cornua and epiphysial plates for the bodies are also described. Fusion of the various segments begins below and proceeds upwards, but is liable to gi'eat indi- vidual variation. In advanced life the coccyx is often ossified to the sacrum. SERIAL HOMOLOGIES OF THE VERTEBRAE. It is a self-evident fact that the vertebral column consists of a number of segments or verte- bne all possessing some characters in common. These vertehrre or segments undergo luodifications according to the region they occupy and the functions tliey are called upon to serve, so that their corresiwndeuce and identity is thereby obscured. There is no difficulty in recognising the correspondence of the bodies and neural arches throughout the column. According to some anatomists the neural arch is the more primitive element in the formation of a vertebra, whilst others liold that the centra are the foundation of the column. Be that as it may, we find that in the higher vertebrates, at least, the bodies are the jjarts which most persist. They are, however, subject to modifications dependent on their fusion with one another. This occurs in the cervical 2)art of the column where the centrum of the first cervical or atlas vertebra has for functional reasons become fused with the body of the second or axis vertebra to form the odontoid process of that segment. For similar reason.s, and in association with the union of the girdle of tlie hind-limb with the column, the bodies of the vertebrre which corre.sjwnd to the sacral .segment become fused together to form a solid mass. In the terminal jjortion of the caudal region the centra alone represent the vertebral segments. As regards the neural arch, this in man becf)mes deficient in the lower sacral region, and absent altogether in the lo^^■er coccygeal segments. The spinous jjrocesses are ab.sent in the case of the