THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 662 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM. The sympathetic nervous system consists of a pair of elongated gangliated cords (nervi sympathici), extending from the base of the skull to the coccyx; con- nected, on the one hand, by a series of branches to the spinal nervous system, and on the other hand giving off an irregular series of branches to the viscera. At its cephalic end each sympathetic cord is continued in a plexiform manner into the cranial cavity along with the internal carotid artery, and forms complex relation- ships with certain cranial nerves. At their caudal ends the two sympathetic cords become joined together hj fine filaments, and are connected by the coccygeal ganglion (g. impar). The sympathetic system (1) serves to rearrange and distribute fibres derived from the cerebro-spinal system to the viscera and vessels of the splanchnic area ; (2) it trans- mits to the cerebro-spinal system afferent fibres from tlie viscera; and (8) it transmits fibres to the vessels, involuntary muscles and glands, in the course of the somatic divisions of the spinal nerves. General Structure of the Sympathetic System.—The sympathetic system is composed of two elements—ganglia and nerve fibres. The ganglia (g. trunci sympathici) are variable in number, form, size, and position. They are not definitely segmental in position, but they are always connected together by a system of narrow commissural cords of nerve fibres. A ganglion consists of a larger or smaller number of multipolar nerve-cells, en- closed in a capsule of connective tissue. Each cell is provided with one axon and a number of dendrites. The axon may enter into the com- position of (a) the commissural cord; (b) a central branch (gray ramus communicans); or (c) a peripheral branch from the sympathetic cord. These axons are commonly meduUated at their origin, but become non-meduUated in their course from the parent cell. Besides these ganglia, two other series of ganglia are present in connexion with the peripheral l:)ranches of the sympathetic,—intermediate or collateral ganglia, on the branches or in the y°'"^";^^'V'^"°'i"'*^''ir'P'7'''J'™r''" sympathetic plexuses, and terminal ganglia, in The splanchnic anereut nbres (in blue) are i ■, . ^ , •>. ri - shown, partly entering the ganglion, and close relation to tlie endings ot tile nerves m passing upwards or downwards in the the viscera. gangliated cord ; partly passing over the cord into peripheral branches. in i t ii are oi two classes, medullated and non-medul- lated. The distinction is not absolute. The medullated fibres may lose their medullary sheaths before reaching their terminations; and the non-medullated fibres may at their origin possess a medullary sheath. The medullated fibres form the series of loJiite rami communicantes (the visceral branches of the spinal nerves). They take origin from the anterior primary divisions of certain spinal nerves in two streams, thoracico-lumbar from the first (or second) thoracic to the second or third lumbar nerve, and pelvic, or sacral, from the third, and second or fourth sacral nerves. The roots of these nerves arise from both dorsal and ventral roots of the spinal nerves, but in largest numliers from the ventral root. The fibres from the ventral root are of very small size. They are the axons of nerve-cells within the spinal cord, and passing through the white ramus, they enter the sympathetic cord, and end by forming arborisations around SPLANCHNIC AFFERENT Fk;. 475.—Scheme of the Constitution of THE White Ramus Communicans of the Sympathetic. The roots and trunks of a spinal nerve are shown, with the white ramus passing be- tween the spinal nerve and a sympathetic ganglion (Sy). The splanchnic efferent fibres (in red) are shown, partly ending in the ganglion, and jiartly passing be- The nerve fibres iu the sympathetic system