THE ARTICULATIONS OE JOINTS. 292 Transverse ligament Anterior cornu of internal semilunar cartilage Anterior tubtTosity Anterior cornu of external seniilunar cartilage surface behind the spine of the tibia and close to the popliteal notch. Its fibres pass obliquely iipwards, forwards, and inwards, to be inserted into the outer non- articular surface of the inner condyle, far forwards towards the anterior margin of the intercondyloid notch. It is rendered tense in the position of tlexiou. Tlie semilunar interarticular fibro-cartilages are two in number—an inner and an outer—placed horizontally between the articular surfaces of the femur and tibia. In general outline they correspond to the circumferential portions of the tibial facets upon which they rest. Each has a thick, convex, fixed border in relation to the periphery of the joint, and a thin, concave, free border directed towards the interior of the joint. Neither of them is sufficiently large to cover the whole of the tibial articular surface upon which it rests. The upper and lower surfaces of each semilune are smooth and free, and each cartilage terminates in an anterior and a posterior filjrous horn or cornu. The internal semilunar fibro-cartilage (meniscus medialis, Fig. 225) forms very nearly a semicircle. It is attached by its anterior horn to the non-articular surface on the head of the tibia, in front of the tibial attachment of the anterior crucial ligament, and by its posterior horn to the non-articular surface immediately in front of the til)ial attachment of the posterior crucial ligament. The deep or hinder part of the internal lateral ligament is attached to its periphery. The external semilunar fibro-cartilage (meniscus lateralis. Fig. 225) is attached by its anterior horn to the non-articular surface of the tibia in front of the tibial spine, where it is placed to the outer side, and partly under cover of the tibial end of the anterior crucial ligament. By its posterior horn it is attached to the interval between the two tuljercles which surmount the tibial spine, i.e. in front of the attachment of the posterior horn of the internal semilunar cartil- age. This fibro- cartilage, with its two horns, therefore forms almost a complete circle. Posteriorly it is attached by its periphery to the posterior ligament, but on the outer side it is separated from the external lateral ligament by the tendon of the popliteus muscle, and on this aspect its periphery is free. The two horns of the external semilune are embraced by the two horns of the internal one, and, while the anterior crucial ligament has its tibial attachment almost between the anterior horns of the two semilunes, the tibial attachment of the posterior crucial ligament is situated behind the posterior horns of the two semilunes. Both semilunes possess certain accessory attachments. Thus the external semilune sends a large bundle of fibres from its convex posterior border to augment the posterior aspect of the posterior crucial ligament, by which these fibres are conducted to the femur. Again, the convex or peripheral margins of each semilune possess certain attachments to the deep surface of the capsule on its inner and posterior aspects, as has already been explained, but, in addition, they are attached to the non-articular circumference of the tibial head by short fibrous bands known as the ligamenta coronaria. Lastly, a rounded band which varies in strength, the transverse liga- ment (lig. transversum genu, Figs. 223 and 225), stretches between the anterior Posterior corn u of internal semi- lunar cartilage \I'ost(;ri(jr cornu of exter- nal semilunar cartilage Fasciculus from external semilunar cartilage to posterior crucial ligament Fig, Posterior crucial ligament 225.—Upper End of Tibia, with Semilunar Cartilages and Attached Portions of Crucial Ligaments.