INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NEEVE. 589 through the lower half of the arm, it divides at the front of the elbow into its two terminal branches. Communication.—The internal cutaneous nerve communicates with the palmar branch of the ulnar nerve in the lower part of the forearm. Branches.—In the arm, as soon as it becomes superficial, the internal cutaneous nerve gives off a branch which supplies the skin of the lower half of the anterior surface of the arm on its inner side. At the elbow it divides into two terminal Levator anguli scapulae Rhoinboideiis major Scapular fascia - Dorsal Scapular i_ artery (brauch of) Teres major Latissiuius dorsi- ■Supraspinatus muscle Scapular spine (cut) Infraspinatus Teres minor iceps (long head) ■MUSCULO-SPIRAL —Nerve to teres minor - (jlrcumflex nerve and !; \RTERY Deltoid (reflected) Cutaneous branch of circumflex Triceps (outer head) Triceps (outer head) Brachialis anticus Triceps (inner head) External intermuscular septum 1 External cutaneous J- branches of musculo- j spiral Bracliio-radialis Extensor carpi radialis longior Tf-;— Anconeus branches—anterior and internal, which, crossing over or the median basilic vein, are dis- tributed to the inner side of the forearm. The anterior branch can be followed to the wrist and sup- plies the whole of the front of the forearm in . the inner half; the internal branch is not so large, and, passing obliquely backwards and downwards over the origins of the pronator and 434.-Deltoid Region and Back of Arm. tiexor muscles, it -is distributed to the upper two-thirds or three-fourths of the posterior aspect of the forearm on the inner side. Flexor carpi- ulnaris Extensor muscles of forearm (common tendon) Lesser Internal Cutaneous Nerve. The lesser internal cutaneous nerve (n. cutaneus brachii medialis minor) arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, and ultimately from the first thoracic nerve (Fig. 429, p. 581). It lies at first between the axillary artery and vein; and after descending over, under, or even, in some cases, through the axillary vein, it