348 THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. the ilio-tibial band), and partly into the gluteal ridge. The fascia lata receives the whole of the superhcial fibres of the muscle and the upper half of the deep fibres. The lower half of the deep portion of the muscle is inserted for the most part into the gluteal ridge ; but the lowest fibres of all are inserted into fascia lata, and are thereby connected with the external intermuscular septum and the origin of the short head of the biceps. The gluteus maximus is the coarsest and heaviest muscle in the body. By its weight it helps to form the fold of the nates. It is superficial in its whole extent. The gluteus inedius is visible at its upper border, covered by the fascia lata; at its lower border the hamstring muscles and great sciatic nerve appear on their way down the thigh. The muscle conceals the bones from which it arises, along with the great sciatic ligament, the ischial tuberosity, and the great trochanter. It also conceals the gluteus medius and pyriformis, with a branch of the gluteal artery between them; the ol)turator internus and gemelli, with the sciatic vessels and nerves, the pudic vessels and nerves, and the muscular branches of the sacral plexus above them, and the obturator externus and a branch of the internal circumflex artery below them; thequadratus femoris and upper part of the ad- ductor magnus, with the internal circumflex artery between them. It covers the origins of the hamstring muscles, and by its insertion into the fascia lata, the vastus externus. The first perforating artery pierces the attachment of the muscle to the gluteal ridge. Three bursas are beneath it: one (not always present) over the tuberosity of the ischium, a second over the outer side of the great trochanter, and a third over the vastus externus. The fibres of the gluteus maximus arising from the coccyx may form a separate muscle (agitator caudas). The tensor fasciae femoris (m. tensor fasciae latae), lying on the same p^ne as the gluteus maximus, arises from the dorsum ilii external to the anterior superior spine and from the upper part of the notch below it. Invested like the gluteus maximus by the fascia lata, it is inserted about the level of the great trochanter of the femur into the fascia, forming the ilio-tibial band. The tensor fasciae femoris muscle is superficially placed, and is isolated in a strong investment of the fascia lata, the deeper layer of which is prolonged on. to the tendon of the rectus femoris and the capsule of the hip-joint. The muscle is placed along the anterior borders of the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus, and conceals branches of the gluteal and external circumflex vessels and the termination of the superior gluteal nerve. The sartorius muscle is adjacent to it anteriorly at its origin, and is separated below by the rectus femoris. The gluteus medius arises (1) from the dorsum ilii, between the iliac crest and the superior curved line above and the middle curved line below, and (2) from the strong fascia lata covering its surface anteriorly. It is a fan-shaped