995 SUBDIVISION OF THE WBDOMIXAL GAVITV. diaphragm for the passage of the inferior vena cava, the cesophagus, and the aorta respectively; the apertures in the pelvic floor, through which the rectum, the urethra, and ' the vagina in the female, reach the surface ; the inguinal canal, through which the spermatic cord (or round ligament) passes, in leaving the al)tlominal cavity; and lastly, the crural canal, a small passage which runs down from the al)domen along the inner side of the femoral vessels. The two latter con- stitute on eacli side two weak points in the ahdomiual wall, through which a piece of intestine occasionally makes its way, giving rise to inguinal or femoral hernia respectively. Extraperitoneal (jr Subperitoneal Connective Tissue (tela subserosa).—Between tlie fasciie which cover the deep surfaces of the a1)dominal muscles, and the peri- toneum which lines the cavity, tliere is found a considerable quantity of connective tissue, generally more or less loaded with fat, which is kn(jwn as the extraperitoneal or sul)peritoueal' connective tissue. This is part of an extensive fascial system, which lines the whole of the Ijody cavity, outside its various serous sacs, and is continued on the several vessels, nerves, and other structures which pass from these cavities into the limbs and neck. In the aI)domen it is divisible into a parietal and a visceral portion, l)oth com- posed of loose connective tissue. The former lines the cavity, whils^. the latter passes forwards Ijetween the mesenteries and other peritoneal folds to the viscera. These two portions of the extraperitijneal tissue are perfectly continuous with one another, and contain in their whole extent a vascular plexus, through which a com- munication is established between the vessels of the alidominal wall, on the one hand, and those of the contained viscera on the other. The parietcd 2)ortiun is thin and comparatively free from fat over the roof and anterior wall of the abdomen, and here the peritoneum is more lirmly attached than where the tissue is fatty and large in amount. In the pelvis, on the other hand, the tissue is loose and fatty, and, as such, it is continued up for some inches on the anterior abdominal wall above the pul)es, to permit of the ascent of the I)ladder during its distension, and the attendant stripping of the peritoneum off this p(jrtion of the anterior al)dominal wall. Here also the iirachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries will he found passing up in its substance. On the posterior wall the tissue is large in amount and fatty, particularly where it surrounds the great vessels and kidneys. From this latter portion especially, the visceral expansions are derived in the form of prolongations around the various branches of the aorta. These expansions are connected with the areolar coats of the l^lood-vessels and are conducted by them into the mesenteries and other folds of the peritoneum, and thus reach the viscera. The chief uses of this tissue are : (1) to unite the layers of the abdominal wall to- gether; (2) to connect the viscera to these walls and to one another in such a loose manner that their distension or relaxation may not be interfered with, which would not be the case if tlie connecting medium were firm or rigid ; (3) in addition, it is a storehouse of fat, forms sheaths for the vessels and nerves, and estal:)lishes, through its vascular plexus, communication Ijetween the parietal vessels and those distributed to the abdominal viscera. Subdivision of the Abdominal Cavity. The abdomen is divided naturally hj the pelvic brim into two parts, the abdomen proper, and the cavity of the pelvis. The former of these is further sub- divided, arlijiciallij, into nine regions. The pelvic brim (Figs. 158 and 159, p. 214), which separates the two natural divisions of tlie cavity, is formed behind l)y the Ijase of the sacrum, at the sides by the iliopectineal lines, and in front l)y the pubic crests. In the erect position it usually makes an angle of about 55 to 60 degrees with the horizontal. The two portions of the abdominal cavity which the brim separates meet at an angle, the abdomen proper running almost vertically upwards from it, whilst the pelvic cavity slopes backwards and downwards.