THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 822 ii])i'i'ior intonial rl iculur artery Inferior internal arti^'nlar artery transverse adductor. At the bases of the interdigital clefts the three inner digital arteries divide into collateral branches (aa. digitales plantares) which run along the plantar aspect of adjacent toes, and sujjply skin, joints, and the flexor tendons and sheaths. Opposite the last phalanx of each toe the digital arteries anasto- mose. The posterior perforating arteries are three in ntnnber; tlicy pass dorsalwards through the three outer interosseous spaces, between the heads of the dorsal interosseous muscles, and terminate by uniting with the dorsal in- terosseous branches of the metatarsal artery. Anterior perforating branches A\liich communicate with the dorsal intei'osseous arteries are given off from two or three of the digital ai'terics just before they divide. The articular branches are numerous and irregular; they supj)ly the joints and liga- ments of the tarsus on its plantar aspect. Superior external articnlar artery Inferior external articular artery Anterior tibial recuri'ent artery Anterior tibial ai'tery Gastroeni'niius Anterior tibial iierye Peronens breyis Extensor longns iligitorum Extensor longus hallucis Anterior i)eroneal artery External malleolar artery Tar.sal arten Digital artery Digital artery The Anterior Tibial Artery. The anterior tibial artery (a. tibialis anterior), the smaller of the two ter- minal divisions of the popli- teal, commences opposite the lower liorder of the pop- liteus muscle, and termi- nates in front of the ankle, where it is continued into the dorsal artery of the foot. Course and Relations. —From its origin at the back ,of the leg the artery })asses forwards to the front, between the two uppermost slips of the tibialis posticus and above tlie upper border' of the interosseous mem- brane. It then descends resting, in the upper two- thirds of its course, upon the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane and, subsequently, on the shaft of the tibia and the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint. In the upper third of the anterior compartment of the leg it lies between the extensor longus digitorum externally and the tibiaUs anticus internally; in the middle third it is between the extensor longus hallucis and the tibialis anticus ; in the lower third the extensor proprius hallucis crosses in front of the artery and reaches its inner side, and the last part of the vessel Hes Cutaneous branch Extensor breyis digitorum Fir,. 578.—The Anteuior Tibial Akteuy and its Branches.