GENEKAL EMBRYOLOGY. 18 Structure of the Ectoderm and Entoderm.—The cells of the ectoderm are at first irregular in size and shape, and their outlines are indistinct; but after a short time the ectoderm cells at one pole of the blastodermic vesicle become cubical or slightly columnar, whilst the remaining cells of the outer layer are flattened and have irregular outlines. The columnar cells form the ectoderm of the embryo, and the ;tr'ra'^°'"^ flattened cells are util- ised in the formation of nutritive and protec- tive structures known as the placenta and foetal membranes. The cells of the en- toderm are also,at first, very irregular in shape and size, but after- wards, as they are spread out into a layer, Pi iDiitivp. streak Mesoderm Fig. 11.—Surface View op the Blastodermic Yesicle. Sliowing the embryonic area and the commencement of the mesoderm. A, [Before the appearance of the primitive .streak—the embryonic area is circular in form and bilaminar thro\ighout ; B, After the appearance of they beconie more Or the primitive streak. The posterior end of the jirimitive streak shows ]^ggg x'OUnded and thev a crescentic thickening, which indicates the commencement of the meso- j.' derm or middle layer of the blastodermic membrane.] anastOIllOSe together by filamentous processes. At a still later period they are transformed into polygonal plates which appear spindle-shaped in section (Figs. 10 and 12). The Embryonic Area.—When the upper pole of the bilaminar blastodermic vesicle is examined in surface view, from above, a dark, somewhat opaque cii'cular area is visible; this is known as the embryonic area. It is coextensive with the columnar portion of the ectoderm. Very soon after it appears the embryonic area becomes ovoid; the small end of the ovoid area is posterior, that is, it lies in the region which is afterwards converted into the posterior part of the embryo. At Embryonic Embryonic area NotochorJ Entodcnii Embryonic area I'riniitive groove ,EctuiierMi Mesoderm Mesoderm Entoderm Fig. 12.—The Upper Pole of the Blastodermic Vesicle. Showing the embryonic area, the primitive streak with the extension of tlie mesoderm from its sides and posterior end, and tlie commencement of tlje iienral groove. A, Surface view (diagrammatic) ; B and C, Transverse sections through the blastoderm of the ferret at the stage represented in A and along the lines b and c respectively. the hinder end of the ovoid area a still darker patch of triangular form is developed ; this soon becomes crescentic, and is the first indication of the primitive streak and of the formation of a third blastodermic layer termed the mesoderm or mesoblast. The primitive streak consists of thickened ectoderm which is seen in transverse sections projecting downwards, and resting \\\)on the entoderm, in the form of a ridge. From tlie sides and the posterior extremity of the ectodermal ridge a lamina of