218 OSTEOLOGY. irregular form, slopes up- Fid. 161.—RicHT Femur a.s .seen from Behind. Head Fossa for ho. tere.s Digital fossa Great trochanter Tubercle of quadratiis Intertro- chanteric RIDGE ynadratus femoris Gluteal ridge Glutens iiiaxiniu: Arterial foramen Vastus exteriuis Adductor luaKiius wards and inwards. This constitutes the upper part of the spiral line (linea inter- trochautei-ica), and serves for the attachment of the ilio-femoral ligament of the hip-joint. Posteriorly, where the neck unites with the shaft, there is a full rounded ridge passing from the tro- chanter major above to the trochanter minor below; this is the posterior inter- trochanteric J line or ridge (crista intertrochanterica). A little above the middle of this ridge there is usually a fulness which serves to indicate the upper limit of attachment of the quadratus femoris muscle, and is called the tubercle for the quad- ratus. Externally the neck is embedded in the inner surface of the trochanter major, by which, at its upper and back part, it is to some extent overhung. Here is situated the digital fossa (fossa trochanterica), into which the tendon of the obturator externus is in- serted. Passing nearly hori- zontally across the back of the neck there is a faint groove leading into this depression; in this the tendon of the ol)turator externus muscle lies. In- feriorly the neck becomes confluent with the tro- chanter minor behind, and is continuous with the inner surface of the shaft in front. The neck is pierced by many vascular canals, most numer- ous at tlie upper and back part. Some ■ are directed upwards towards the head, whilst otliers pass in the direction of the trochanter major. The trochanter major is a large quadrangular process which caps the upper and outer part of the shaft, and overhangs the root of the neck above and behind. Its outer surface, of rounded wards and inwards, and is separated from the external surface of the shaft below by a more or less hori- zontal ridge. Crossing it obliquely from the posterior superior to the anterior Int. Internal tuberosity Internal CONDYLE Surface for attachment ol' posterior crucial liyanient Short head of biceps Ext. eficondylic line Popliteal surface I'lantaris Gastrocnemius External tuberosity Surface for attachment of ant. crucial ligament External condyle NUYLic notch