32 GENEEAL EMBEYOLOGY. a fold, by which the gut is suspended from the under surface of the primitive vertebral column; this fold is the mesentery. The diaphragm, which is formed at a later period and which separates the thorax from the abdomen, divides the coelom into pleural and peritoneal portions. The primitive alimentary canal is almost a straight tube, blind at both its extremities, and communicating only with the cavity of the yolk sac. As yet there is no mouth and no anal passage or aperture. The simple tubular canal is divisible into fore-gut, mid-gut, and hind-gut, parts which are conveniently associated developmentally with definite portions of the fully-formed alimentary canal. Thus the fore-gut is converted into the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and the greater part of the duodenum; whilst from the mid-gut and the hind-gut the rest of the small intestine (je- junum and ileum), and the whole length of the large intestine (cpecum, colon, and rectum), are formed. There is no sharp limit between the mid-gut and the hind- gut, or between the portions of the intestinal canal which develop from them. Diverticular outgrowths from the entoderm of the primitive alimentary canal form the rudiments of the intestinal glands, including the liver and pancreas, of the respiratory apparatus, and of the thyroid and thymus glands. Details of the for- mation of these structures are given in the special de- scription of the development of the system to which each belongs. Except with respect to the anterior part of the fore-gut, the changes in shape and position which the originally simple alimentary tube un- dergoes during its conversion Fig. 26.—Diagram representing the Condition of the Ali- hito its final or adult form MENTARY Canal IN A HujiAN EMBRYO ABOUT FIFTEEN Days arc descrlbed 111 tlic accouut Old (modified from His). The visceral clefts are formed, and the subdivisions of the fore-gut, together with the rudiments of the bronchi and liver, are distinct. Yolk-sac Cloacal membrane Body stalk of the development of the digestive organs; but the development of the pharynx and the structures associated with it, and the formation of the mouth and anus, may be considered now. Development of the Pharynx and Stomatodaeum.—The development of the anterior part of the fore-gut into the pharynx and the fioor of the mouth is so inti- mately associated with the formation of a primitive mouth, the stomatodteum, that the two must to a certain extent be considered simultaneously. The stomatodseum first appears as a depression lietween the head and the peri- cardial region. It, is produced by the downward growth of the forepart of the head in front and the bulging forward of the pericardiimi behhid, and it is sepai'ated from the anterior end of tlie fore-gut by the bi-laminar bucco-pharyngeal meniln-ane. When the stomatodjemn first appears it is not enclosed laterally; but at a later period side l)oundaries are formed, and the space is developed into the upper part of the mouth and the nasal cavities.