243 THE METATAESUS. tion with the base of the fourth metatarsal, more or less conical in outhne, and having its lower edge sharply defined by a narrow groove which underlies it. The fourth metatarsal has a base more cubical in shape. Its proximal aspect articulates with the cuboid, whilst internally an elongated oval facet, divided by a II. METATARSAL IV. Metatarsal IV. METATARSAL External cuneiform III. Metatarsal V. Metatarsal A, Inner sides. B, Outer sides. Fig. 190.—View of the Bases and Shafts of the Second, Third, and Fourth Metatarsal Bones OF THE Eight Foot. slight vertical ridge, provides surfaces for articulation with the third metatarsal in front and the outer side of the internal cuneiform behind. On the outer side there is a demi-oval facet, bearing a slightly saddle-shaped surface, for articulation with the inner side of the base of the fifth metatarsal. The fifth metatarsal can be readily recognised by the peculiar shape of its base, from the outer side of which there projects backwards and outwards a pro- minent tubercle (tuberositas oss. metacarpi V.). To the hinder extremity of this is attached the tendon of the peroneus brevis muscle. To its upper surface the tendon of the peroneus tertius is inserted, whilst its under surface provides an origin for the flexor brevis minimi digiti muscle. The inner surface of the base is provided with a demi-oval, slightly concave facet, for the outer side of the base of the fourth metatarsal, . whilst proximally it articulates with the cuboid by means of a semi-circular facet. Vascular Foramina.—The canals for the nutrient vessels open, as a rule, on the plantar aspects of the middle of the shafts. Those of the outer metatarsals are directed towards the bases of the bones, whilst that for the metatarsal of the great toe passes towards its head. Architecture.—In structure and the arrangement of their lamellae the metatarsal bones agree with the metacarpus. Variations.—Several instances of separation of the tuberosity of ■he fifth metatarsal (os Vesaleaniim) have been recorded, whilst numerous examples of an os intermetatarsiim between the bases of the first and second metatarsal bones have been recorded by Griiber and thers. The tubercle on the base of the first metatarsal for the attach- ent of the peroneus longus tendon is occasionally met with as a iseparate ossicle. yig. Ossification.—In correspondence with the mode of ossification which maintains in the metacarpus, the primary centres for the metatarsus appear as early as the third month of foetal life. In the case of the second, third, fourth, and fifth, these centres furnish the bases and shafts of the bones, the heads CUBOILi ' Peroneus brevis 191.— Fifth Right Metatarsal Bone (dorsal aspect).