76 OSTEOLOGY. articular surface displays indications of division into two parts. These facets are for the reception of the condyles of the occipital bone. The inferior articular facets are placed on the under surfaces of the lateral masses. Of circular form, they display a slight side- to-side concavity, though flat in the antero-posterior direction. Their position is such that their surfaces incline downwards and slightly inwards. They rest on the superior articular processes of the second cer- vical vertebra. Springing from the anterior and inner aspects of the lateral masses, and uniting them in front, is a curved bar of bone, the anterior arch (arcus an- terior) ; compressed on either side, this is thick- ened centrally so as to form on its anterior aspect the rounded anterior tubercle Fia. .57.—The Atlas from Above. 1. Posterior arch. 2. Transverse process. Tubercle for transverse ligament. Anterior arch. Anterior tubercle. • 3. 10. Surface for articulation with odontoid process. Superior articular process. Foramen for vertebral artery. Groove for vertebral artery. Posterior tubercle. (tuberculum anterius). In correspondence with this on the posterior surface of this arch is a circular facet (fovea dentis) for articulation with the odontoid process of the second cervical vertebra (axis). The inner surface of the lateral mass is rough and irregular, displaying a little tubercle for the attachment of the transverse ligament which passes across the space included between the two lateral masses and the anterior arch, thus holding the odontoid process of the axis in position. Behind each tubercle there is usually a deep pit, opening into the bottom of which are the canals for the nutrient vessels. External to the lateral mass, and principally from its upper half, the transverse process arises by two roots which include between them the vertebrarterial foramen. The transverse process is long, obliquely compressed, and down-turned; the anterior and posterior tubercles are no longer distinguishable, as they have fused to form one mass. The posterior arch arises in part from the posterior surface of the lateral mass, and in part from the posterior root of the transverse process. Compressed from above downwards anteriorly, where it bounds a groove which curves around the posterior aspect of the superior articular process and is also continuous externally with the vertebrarterial foramen, the posterior arch becomes thicker mesially, where it displays posteriorly a rough irregular projection—the posterior tubercle (tuberculum posterius), the feeble representative of the spinous process. A prominent little tubercle, arising from the posterior extremity of the superior articular process, over- hangs the groove above mentioned, and not infrequently becomes developed so as to form a bridge of bone across it, converting the groove into a canal through which the vertebral artery and the first cervical or suboccipital nerve pass—a condition normally met with in many animals. It is noteworthy that the grooves along which the two highest spinal nerves pass lie behind the articular processes, in place of in front, as in other parts of the column. The ring formed by the lateral masses and the anterior and posterior arches is of irregular outline. The anterior part, cut off from the rest by the transverse ligament, serves for the lodgment of the odontoid process of the axis; the part behind corresponds to the upper part of the neural or spinal canal. larger Variations.—The vertebrarterial foramen is often deficient in front. Imperfect ossification occasionally leads to the anterior and posterior arches being incomplete. The superior articular surfaces are occasionally partially or completely divided into anterior and posterior portions. In some instances tlie extremity of the transverse process has two tubercles. The transverse