THE FIFTH, TEIGEMINAL OR TRIFACIAL NERVE. 637 sphenoidal fissure, above the muscles of the eyeball, and terminates in the orbital (superior) surface of the superior oblique muscle. Communications.—In the cavernous sinus the nerve receives (1) a. communicating branch from the cavernous or carotid plexus on the internal carotid artery, and (2) a slender filament from the oj)hthalmic division of the lifth nerve. The Fifth, Tkigeminal or Trifacial Nerve. The trigeminal nerve (u. trigeminus) arises from the surface of the pons A'^arolii in its outer part by two roots, a large sensory root (portio major) and a small motor root (portio minor) (Fig. 452, p. 633). _ The two roots proceed forwards in the posterior fossa of the base of the skull, and piercing the dura mater lieneath the attachment of the tentorium cere- belli to the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, enter a cavity in the dura mater (cavum Meckelii) over the apex of the petrous bone. The large sensory root gradually conceals the small motor root in its course forwards, and expands beneath the dura mater into a large flattened ganglion,—the Gasserian ganglion (ganglion semi- lunare). This ganglion occupies an impression on the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and from it three large trunks arise— the ophthalmic or first, the superior maxillary or second, and the inferior maxillary or third divisions of the nerve. The small motor root of the nerve passes forward beneath the Gasserian ganglion, and is wholly in- corporated with the inferior maxillary division of the nerve. Ophthalmic Division (n. ophthal- micus).—The ophthalmic nerve passes forwards to the orbit through the middle fossa of the base of the skull, beneath the dura mater. It lies in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, at a lower level than the fourth nerve, and reaches the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure (Fig. 455). In the wall of the cavernous sinus the ophtlialmic nerve gives'off (1) a small recurrent branch to the dura mater (n. tentorii), (2) commimlcating branches to the cavernous plexus of the sym- pathetic on the internal carotid artery, and (3) small communicating twigs to the trunks of the third, fourth, and sixth nerves. In the sphenoidal fissure the nerve divides into three main branches—lachrymal, frontal, and nasal (Fig. 459). The lachrymal nerve (n. lacrymalis) enters the orbit through the outer angle of the sphenoidal fissure, above the orbital muscles. Passing forwards beneath tlie periosteum to the anterior part of the orbit, the nerve ends by Fio. 458.—DisTuiBUTioN OF Sensoky Nehves to the Head and Nbck. Ophtli, Oplitlialniic division of the fiftli nerve ; St, Supra- troclilear branch ; S.O, Supra - orbital branch ; I.T, Infra-trochlear branch; L, Lachrymal branch; N, External nasal branch ; Sup.Max, Superior maxillary division ; T, Temporal branch ; M, Malar branch ; I.O, Infra-orbital branch ; Inf.Max, Inferior maxillary division ; A.T, Auriculo-temporal branch ; B, Buccal liranch ; M, Mental branch ; C2, 3, Branches of the second and third cervical nerves ; G.O, Great occipital nerve ; S.O, Small occipital nerve ; G.A, Great auricular nerve ; S.C, Superficial cervical nerve ; C'3, Least occipital nerve ; 4, 5, 6, Posterior primary division of 4th, 5th, and 6th cervical nerves.