THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. By D. J. Cunningham. Under this title we include a heterogeneous group of organs, the common feature of which is that the products of their activity are not conveyed from them by means of ducts, but are discharged directly into the vascular system through the veins or lymphatic vessels which take origin within them. This physiological process is termed internal secretion, and in the case of certain of these organs the secretion has been shown to exert a profound influence upon the nutritive changes of the body. The ductless glands include the lymphatic glands, which have ))eeu already described with the vascular system; the pineal and pituitary bodies, which have been referred to in the account which has been given of the l)rain; and the spleen, the suprarenal capsules, the thyroid body, the parathyroids, the thymus body, the coccygeal body, the carotid Ijody—all of which still remain to be studied. THE SPLEEN. The spleen (lien) is the largest of the ductless glands. It varies greatly in .size in different individuals, and also in the same individual under differeiit conditions, consequently it is difficult to give its average dimensions. Eoughly speaking, it may be said to be as a rule about five inches in length and three inches in width at its widest part. It is a soft yielding organ, very vascular, and somewhat purple in colour. It lies far back in the abdominal cavity between the stomach and the diaphragm, and its position is such that, whilst the greater part of the organ is situated in the left hypochondrium, its upper end extends inwards beyond the left Poupart plane, and thus comes to lie in the epigastric region. It is placed very obliquely, and its long axis corresponds closely in its direction to that of the back part of the tenth rib. Form of Relations of the Spleen.—The spleen has the shape of an irregular tetrahedron. The upper end or apex (extremitas superior) points inwards and backwards, and is curved to some extent forwards on itself. Of the four surfaces the most extensive is the diaphragmatic (facies diaphragmatica), which looks back- wards and outwards. It rests upon the Ijack part of the diaphragm, to the curvature of which it is accurately adapted. By the diaphragm it is separated from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. It is necessary also to remember that the pleura descends between this portion of the chest wall and the diaphragm, and thus comes to lie superficially to the greater part of this diaphragmatic surface of the spleen. The thin basal margin of the lung, which occupies the upper part of the pleural recess, likewise intervenes between the upper part (if the spleen and the surface of the body. In the foetus and infant, in wliicli the liver is relatively very large, the left lohe of that organ extends to the left so far that it comes as a rule to intervene between a portion of the spleen and the diaphragm. Such a relation is sometimes seen in the adult, but, excejit in childhood, it is, usual for the liver to fall short of the spleen.