549 PROJECTION FIBRES. Tlie fasciculus occipito-frontalis is a bundle of fibres which runs in a sagittal direction in intimate relation to the lateral ventricle (Fig. 403, p. 540). It has been pointed out (Forel, Onufrowicz, and others) that, in cases where the corpus callosum fails to develop, the tapetum remains apparently unaffected, and Dejerine has endeavoiired to prove that the fibres of this layer really belong to the fasciculus occipito-frontalis. According to Dejerine, the fasciculus occipito-frontalis lies on the inner aspect of the corona radiata in intimate relation to the caudate nucleus, and posteriorly it spreads out over the upper and outer aspect of the lateral ventricle, immediately outside the ependyma, where it constitutes the tapetum (see p. 546). There is a considerable amount of literature dealing with this subject, and the most probable explanation of the difficulty would appear to be that the tapetum is composed of fibres derived from both the corpus callosum and the fasciculus occipito-frontalis of Dejerine. Projection Fibres.—The projection fibres are those which connect the cerebral cortex with nuclear masses placed at a lower level. The great bulk of these fibres are found in the corona radiata. This has already been seen to be formed by the continuation upwards of the internal capsule (p. 542). In the corona radiata the fibres which, lower down, are gathered together in the compact mass which con- stitutes the internal capsule, radiate in every direction, intersect the radiation of the corpus callosum, and finally reach every region of the cortex. Although the fibres of the corona radiata represent the chief bulk of the projection fibres, it should also be borne in mind that a certain number gain the cortex by a different route, notably through and under the lenticular nucleus and by the path offered by the external capsule. The projection fibres of the cerebral hemisphere may be classified into (1) corticipetal, and (2) corticifugal groups; and under these headings the following great strands may be arranged :— Corticipetal Projection Strands. Corticifugal Projection Strands. 1. Thalaiao-coi'tical. 1. The pyramidal or great motor tract. '2. The fillet system of fibres. -2. Tlie fronto-pontine .strand. 3. The suj)erior cerebellar peduncle. 3. The temporo-pontine strand. 4. Corticipetal filires of the optic radiation. 4. Tlie corticifugal fibres of the 0})tit' radia- 5. The auditory radiatif)ii. , tion. The great motor or pyramidal tract is composed of fibres whicli arise from pyramidal cells in that portion of the cortex which is spread over the Rolandic area, or, in other words, in the district immediately in front of and immediately behind the fissure of Rolando. The fibres descend through the corona radiata into the posterior limb of the internal capsule. From this point the further course of the pyramidal tract has Ijeen traced, viz. through the central part of the crusta of the crus cerebri, the ventral part of the pons, and the pyramid of the medulla oblongata. At the level of the foramen magnum it decussates in the manner already described and enters the spinal cord as the crossed and direct pyramidal tracts. The fibres composing these end in connexion with the ventral or motor column of cells, from which the fibres of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves arise. The fronto-pontine strand is composed of fibres which arise as the axons of the cells in the cortex which covers the portion of the frontal lobe, which lies in front of the prajcentral furrows. It descends in the anterior limb of the internal capsule, enters the mesial part of tlie crusta of the crus cerebri, through which it gains the ventral part of the pons. In this its filjres end, by forming arborisations around the cells of the nucleus pontis. The temporo-pontine tract consists of fibres which spring from the cells of that part of the cortex which covers the middle portions of the two upper temporal con- volutions. It probably represents a corticifugal tract belonging to the auditory system, seeing that it springs to some extent from the auditory cortical area. The temporo-pontine tract passes inwards under the nucleus lenticularis, enters the retrolenticular part of the hinder limb of the internal capsule, and thus gains the outer part of the crusta of the crus cerebri. From this it descends into the ventral part of the pons, in which it ends in the nucleus pontis. The optic radiation forms a very definite and easily demonstrated tract of