877 DEVELOPMENT OF THE BLOOD VASCULAR SYSTEM. rapidly enlarges and unites with its or posterior chamber of the primi- tive heart; after a time it grows forwards out of the septum into the pericardium, and is absorbed into the auricular portion of the lieart. The middle part of the anterior ventral aorta lies in the dorsal wall of the pericardium and projects forwards into its cavity. It lies close to its fellow of the opposite side, and as the two vessels rapidly enlarge their inner walls approach each other, and, fusing together, form a single median vessel which constitutes the primitive heart (the sinus venosus being excepted) in- cluding the bulbus arteriosus, the latter being afterwards developed into the roots of the pulmonary and aortic vessels. The anterior portion of the anterior ventral aorta is embedded in the tissues at the upper or anterior part of the pericardium, that is, at the root of the neck. At first it is connected with the primitive dorsal aorta by a single cephalic aortic arch, but after- wards three, and eventually four, additional arches connect it with the anterior part of the primitive dorsal aorta. As the neck lengthens this part of the anterior ventral aorta is elongated. For the greater fellow of the opposite side to form the sinus venosus Cephalic aortic Anterior ventral aorta Primitive dorsal aorta Vertebral artery- Subclavian artery-^ Primitive jugular vein Duct of Cuvier Cardinal vein Portal vein Branches to alimentary canal 5th cephalic aortic arch —Bulbus arteriosus^. Ventricle Auricle Sinus venosns Posterior ventral aorta' Caudal aortic arch 1st cephalic aortic arch 2nd cephalic aortic arch 3rd cephalic aortic arch 4th cephalic aortic arch |-Heart Umbilical vein Hypogastric artery Placenta Fig. 598.—Diagram of the Primitive Blood-vessels after the formation of the heart. part of its extent it remains separate from its fellow Primary caudal arches Dorsal aortae 7th liair of segmental arteries Post-costal anastomoses 1st pair of segmental arteries Umbilical vein Branches to yolk sac Vitelline artery 1st cephalic aortic arch 2nd cephalic aortic arch 3rd cephalic aortic arch 4th cephalic aortic arch 5th cephalic aortic arch Bulbus arteriosus Ventricle Yolk sac Auricle Sinus venosus Vitelline vein Fio. 599.—Diagram op the primitive Blood-vessels after the formation of the Heart, bdt BEFORE ITS SUBDIVISION BY SePTA INTO AURICLES AND VENTRICLES. of the opposite side, and it takes part in the formation of the great vessels of the head and neck. Posteriorly, however, it unites with its fellow of the opposite side to form the