THE PHAEYNX. 979 favourite explanation. For several reasons, unnecessary to detail, this view is now dis- carded, and a theory which attributes the impelling force to the hluod pressure is looked upon with more favour, although even this is not altogetlier satisfactory. (See Tomes' Dental Anatomy, 5th Edition, page 211.) Morphology of the Teeth. In mast vertebrates )_)elow mammals all the teeth aw alike in form ; such a dentition is said to be homodont. In the majority of mammals, on the other hand, the teeth are arranged in groups of different size and form ; such a dentition is heterodont. Again, mammals ha\'e, neglecting exceptional cases, but tw(j functional sets of teeth ; they are consequently said to be diphyodont. Most vertebrates below mannnals, on the other hand, have a continuous succession of teeth throughout life, and hence are said to be polyphyodont. Seeing that practically all lower verteljrates are provided with simple conical teeth, the evolu- tion of the many-cusped mammalian molar has given rise to nuich speculation. The jaws of the earliest fossil mammals found are furnished witfi tri-tubercular teeth, the three tubercles being placed in an antero-posterior line ; by a rotation of two of the cusps out or in, as the case may be (a condition foinid in certain other fossil skulls), we arrive at a tri-tubercular form, from wliicli the transition to an ordinary mammalian molar is not difficult. As to how the tri-tuliercular tooth arose from the simple cone, two different views are advanced : one, that it was formed by the union of several conical teeth as a result of the shortening of the jaw and the crowding of the teeth together ; the other, that the single conical tooth developed lateral buds or outgrowths, and that these buds growing larger, the tooth assumed the tri-tubercular form. The comjDlete or typical mammalian dentition, in its highest development, as in the horse, is represented by the following formida : i, f, c. pm. f, m. -5- = 44. In the dentition of man, there- fore, one incisor and two premolars are wanting. Different views are held as to which teeth have been suppressed—most probably they are the second incisors, and the first and second or first and last premolars. In general it may be said that the dentition of the lower races differs from that of the higher, in that the dental arches are squarer in front, the teeth larger and more regular, the canines stronger, the wisdom teeth better developed, and the cusps on the molars more perfect, in the lower than in the more civilised races. However, according to Tomes, the teeth of a savage man, if seen in the mouth of a European,' would be looked uj)on as an " exceedingly perfectly- formed set of teeth." To express the proportionate size of the crowns of the prenrolars and molars to that of the skull in clifferent races, Flowers compared the distance from the front of the first pi'emolar to the back of the last molar, in situ, with the distance from the front of the foramen magnum to the naso-frontal suture (basi-nasal length), in the form of a " dental index "— Thus : Length^fteeth X .^^^ Basi-nasal length and by this means he divided the various races into microdont (index 42 to 43, Europeans, Egyptians, etc.), mesodont (index 43 to 44, Chinese, American Indians, Negroes, etc.), and macro- dont (index 44 and ^lp^vards, Australians, Melanesians, etc.). THE PHARYNX. The pharynx is the expanded upper portion of the digestive tube whicli lies behind, and communicates with, the mouth, the larynx, and the nasal cavities (Fig. 660). It serves for the passage of both air and food, conveying the former to the larynx and the latter to the oesophagus. It extends from the base of the skull above to the level of the sixth cervical vertebra below (Fig. 661), where, opposite the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, it passes into the cesophagus; its total length varies from 5 to 5^ inches (12-5 to 14-0 cm.). When in its natural state within the body, the pharynx is expanded laterally and compressed in the opposite direction, so that its anterior and posterior walls approach one another, and its sides are reduced to little more than mere borders. Although its cavity is much reduced by this approximation of the anterior and posterior walls, there is always left, above the orifice of the larynx, a sufficient space for the entrance of air to the lungs. Below the laryngeal orifice, on the other hand, the anterior and posterior walls are in contact, and the cavity, except during the passage of food, is reduced to a transverse slit (Fig. 661). As usually seen in the dissecting-room, when distended for dissection, the pharynx is of an elongated oval form, tapering rapidly below. This form, however, is due entirely to the arti- ficial conditions under which it is placed.