458 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. The posterior longitudinal bundle (fasciculus longitudinalis medialis) is thus largely formed out of fibres, wliicli in the cord constitute the anterior basis-bundle. These fibres are thrust back by the two decussations: the first decussation pushing them behind the pyramids, and the second decussation displacing them still further backwards to a position behind the fillet. Olivary Nuclei.—The most conspicuous of the isolated clumps of gray matter in the medulla are the inferior olivary nucleus and the two accessory olivary nuclei. The inferior olivary nucleus (nucleus olivaris inferior) lies subjacent to the olivary eminence, and constitutes a very striking object in transverse sections through this region. It presents the appearance of a thick wavy or undulating line of gray matter, folded on itself, so as to enclose a space filled with white matter. It is in reality a crumpled lamina arranged in a purse-like manner, with an open mouth or slit, which is called the hilum (hilum nuclei olivaris), directed towards the Restiform body Vago- glossopharyngeal roots Nucleus of the fasciculus solitarius Ligula Vagus nucleus Fasciculus solitarius Descending root of vestibular nerve (VIII.) go-glossopLaryngeal roots Posterior longitudinal fasciculus Substantia gelatinosa Rolandi Spinal root of fifth nerve Nucleus ambiguus Cerebello-olivary fibres Uorsal accessory olivary nucleus jji. Anterior superficial arcuate fibres iLFiUet Mesial accessory olivary nucleus Inferior olivary nucleus Pyramid Arcuate nucleus Anterior superficial arcuate fibres Fig. 341.—Transverse Section through the Middle of the Olivary Region of the Human Medulla OR Bulb. The floor of the fourth ventricle is seen, and it will be noticed that the restiform body on each side has now taken definite shape. mesial plane. The hilum does not reach either extremity, so that in transverse sections through each end of the nucleus the gray lamina is seen in the form of a completely closed capsule. Into and out of the open mouth of the olivary capsule streams a dense crowd of fibres. These constitute what is called the olivary peduncle. The accessory olivary nuclei are two band-like laminte of gray matter, which are respectively placed on the dorsal and mesial aspects of the main nucleus. In transverse section each of these nuclei presents a rod-like appearance. The mesial accessory olivary nucleus (nucleus olivaris accessorius mesialis) extends lower down in tlie medulla tlian tlie main nucleus, and it is much larger in its lower tlian its upper part. It begins immediately above tlie decussation of the pyramids, where it is seen lying immediately on the outer side of the pyramidal tract ^nd the anterior basis- bundle (Fig. 338). Higher up it lies across the mouth of the main nucleus and on the outer side of the fillet. The dorsal accessory olivary nucleus (nucleus olivaris accessorius dorsalis) is placed close to the dorsal aspect of the main nucleus. It begins at the level at which the main olive first presents a hilum, and it comes to an end at the level at which the central canal opens into the fourth ventricle. The two accessory nuclei fuse together before they finally disappear. The gray matter forming the tliree inferior olivary nuclei is crowded with small round cells, each of which is provided with one axon and numerous dendrites. It is traversed