THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. MYOLOGY. By A. M. Paterson. \ The movements of the various parts and organs of the body are brought about by the agency of muscle-cells, characterised by a special histological structure and by the special function of contracting in length under the influence of a proper stimulus. The following section deals solely with the skeletal muscles, the structure, arrangement, and mechanical action of which are based upon a common plan. The cells of which the skeletal muscles are composed are long, narrow^ and characterised by a peculiar striation, which is different from the striation of the muscle-cells of the heart; they also differ both in structure and function from the non-striated (and involuntary) muscle-cells which occur in viscera and vessels. A typical skeletal muscle consists of a fleshy mass enveloped in a membranous aponeurosis or fascia, and provided at its attached ends or borders with membranous or tendinous connexions to bone, cartilage, or fascia. Each muscle is made up of a number of fasciculi or bundles, arranged together in different ways in different muscles, so as to give rise to the particular form of the muscle in question. These fasciculi are connected together by a delicate connective tissue, the perimysium externum, continuous externally with the aponeurosis enclosing the muscle. Each muscular bundle or fasciculus is composed of a number of narrow, elon- gated muscle-cells or fibres, held together by a still more delicate connective tissue, the perimysium internum; this tissue is connected on the one hand with the sarco- lemma or cell-wall of the muscle-cell, and on the other hand with the coarser tissue of the perimysium externum enclosing the muscular bundles. By means of these connective tissue envelopes the muscle-cells, the essential agents of motor activity, are brought into firm and intimate relation with the osseous or other attachments of the muscle. Through the agency of sarcolemma, perimysium internum, perimysium externum, aponeurosis, and tendon, the muscle- cell when contracted can produce a precise and definite effect upon the weight to be moved. Each muscle is supplied by one or more nerves, which, after entering the substance of the muscle, separate into smaller and smaller branches, ultimately forming special terminal end organs in relation to each muscle-cell. While a muscle may thus be looked upon as an organ endowed with particular properties, and executing a definite movement in response to a stimulus, by the simultaneous contraction of its constituent cells, the various muscles may further be considered in groups, associated by mode of development, nerve-supply, and co-ordination of action. For example, we speak of the hamstring muscles of the thigh, the muscles of the back, and the prsevertebral muscles, groups in which separate muscles are associated together by development, nerve-supply, and action. In their development the separate muscles arise from the subdivision of a larger 20