967 THE TEETH. Incisor Teeth (dentes incisivi, Figs. 650 and 651).—These teeth, four in number in each jaw, are used specially for cutting the food, hence their name. The crown of each is chisel-shaped, and presents an anterior or labial surface which is convex in all directions, a posterior concave surface, and a chisel-like edge, which, when rirst cut, is surmounted by three small tubercles separated by two grooves. These tubercles, however, are soon worn down, and the edge becomes straight or nearly so. Owing to the fact that the iipper incisors overlap those in the lower jaw, the cutting edge is worn away, or bevelled, on the posterior aspect in the former, but on the anterior aspect or summit in the latter. The upper, but particularly the upper central incisors, are of large size, and slope somewhat forwards; wliilst the 2nd molar 2iid premolar Canine - Centra] incisor 2nd molar 2nd premolar Canine Central inci>ior Fiti. 650.—The Perm-^nent Teeth ov the Riuht Side, Outer ur Labial Aspect. The upper row sliows the upper teeth, the lower row the lower teeth. The wide vertical " labial riilge" is distinct on the upper canine and premolar teeth. lower incisors, which are all nearly equal in size, are much suialler—being the smallest of all the teeth—and are placed vertically. The roots of the incisors are single, though a oroove is occasionally seen on eacli side, sugaesting a division. Tlie renti'al upper incisors are very much larger than the upper lateral incisors (Fig. 650), but in the lower jaw the opposite is the case, the lateral incisors being .slightly the larger. In all incisors the outer (distal) angle of the crown is more rounderl than the proximal. The posterior concave surface of the crown in the upper incisors is usually limited towards the gum by a A-shaped ridge (Fig. 651), known as the basal ridge or cingulum. Tlie two limlis of the A are continued up along the sides of the posterior surface, whilst the ajiex is turned towards the gum ; and here, particularly in the lateral incisor, there is often developed a small lingual cusp (Fig. 651). The cingulum is rarely found on the lower incisors. The roots of the upper incisors and canines are conical and i'(.)unded (the laterals and canines not so distinctly as the centrals, Fig. 654), whilst those of the lower jaw £ire flattened from side to side (proximo-distally). Canine Teeth.—In the four canine teeth (dentes canini), which succeed the incisors in each row (Figs. 650 and 651), the crown is large and conical, corresponding closely in gen^'al foxm to a very large central incisor with its angles cut away, so that the crown assumes a pointed or conical shape. The labial surface is convex, the lingual tisually somewhat concave. The root is single and long, par- ticularly in the upper canine, the root of which is longer than that of any other tooth, and produces the canine eminence on the anterior surface of the itpper jaw. The upper canines are larger than the corresponding lower teeth, 1 )ehind which they bite; and they are sometimes kmiwn as the "eye teeth." The upper canine presents on its lingual surface a well-marked cingulum, and often a distinct lingual cusp ; in addition, there is usually a median ridge running i'rom the point of the crown to the apex of the cingulum, which is separated from the lateral part of the cingulum on each side by a slight depression. These points are neither so well marked, nor so constant, in the lower as in the upper (;anine.