741 THE CHAMBEES OF THE HEAET. part. At the junction of the auricular and ventricular parts of this surface are the orifices of the puhnonary artery and the aorta, the former lying in front of the latter. The right margin of the heart consists of an upper auricular part and a lower ventricular part. The former is almost vertical; it lies behind the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs on the right side about half an inch from the margin of the sternum; it is in relation with the right pleura and lung, the phrenic nerve with its accompanying vessels intervening, and it is marked by a shallow groove—the sulcus terminahs —which passes from the front of the superior vena cava to the left of the inferior vena cava. The lower part of the right margin (margo acutus) is sharp, thin, and usually concave, corresponding with the curvature of the anterior part of the diaphragm: it is formed by the right ventricle, and it Kes almost horizontally in the angle between the diaphragm and the anterior wall of the thorax, passing from the sixth right costal cartilage behind the lower part of the body of the sternum, or the ensiform cartilage, and behind the cartilages of the sixth and seventh ribs on the left side to the apex of the heart. The left margin (margo obtusus) is formed mainly by the left ventricle, and only to a small extent by the left auricle. It is thick and rounded. It lies in relation with the left pleura and lung, the phrenic nerve and its accompanying vessels intervening, and it passes from just above the third left costal cartilage, about an inch from the sternum, to the apex of the heart, descending obhquely and with a convexity to the left. Fig. 547.—The Relation op the Heart to the Anterior Wall op the Thorax. I, II, III, IV, V, VI, file upper six costal cartilages. THE CHAMBEES OF THE HEAET. Auricles (auricula cordis). — The auricular or basal portion of the heart is cuboidal in form. Its long axis, which lies transversely, is curved, with the con- cavity of the curve forwards. It is divided into two chambers-—the right and left auricles—by a septum which runs from the front backwards and to the right, so obliquely that the right auricle lies in front and to the right, and the left auricle behind and to the left. Each auricle is also somewhat cuboidal in form, the long; axis of the right auricle, however, being directed antero-posteriorly, whilst that of the left auricle lies vertically, and each chamber possesses a well-marked, ear-shaped, forward prolongation, which projects from the anterior and upper angle and is known as the auricular appendix. The right auricle (atrium dextrum) receives, posteriorly, the superior vena cava above and the inferior vena cava below. Between these, and a Little above its middle, it is crossed posteriorly by the lower right puhnonary vein. It is continuous below and in front with the right ventricle at the auriculo-ventricular aperture. Above and in front it is in relation with the ascending aorta, and from the junc- tion of this aspect with the right lateral boundary the right auricular appendix is prolonged forwards. On the right side it forms the upper portion of the right margin of the heart, and is in relation with the right phrenic nerve and its accom- panying vessels, and with the right pleura and lung, the pericardium intervening.