507 PITUITARY BODY. that some of its ventral tibres pass downwards into the posterior longitudinal bundle. Terrier and Turner have traced fibres from the optic radiation across tlie middle line in the posterior commissure. The locus perforatus posticus (substantia perforata posterior) has already been described on p. 440. Some delicate bands of white matter, termed the taenia pontis, may frequently be seen emerging from the gray matter of this region; they then curve round the crura cerebri in close relation to the upper border of the pons, into which they ultimately sink (¥ig. 335,.p. 449). Corpora Mammillaria.—The corpora mammillaria are two round white bodies, each about the size of a pea, which he side by side in the interpeduncular space on the base of the brain, immediately in front of the locus perforatus posticus. Each corpus mammillare is coated on the outside by white matter derived from the anterior pillar of the fornix and contains, in its interior, a gray nucleus with numerous nerve-cells. Several important strands of fibres are connected with the corpus mammillare: (1) The anterior pillar of the fornix curves downwards in the lateral wall of the third ventricle to reach the corpus mammillare, and its fibres end amidst the cells of that body. (2) A Ixindle of fibres, called the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr, which at first sight appears to be almost continuous with the anterior pillar of the fornix, takes origin in its midst and extends upwards into the optic thalamus, to end in fine arborisations around the large cells in the anterior thalamic nucleus. (3) Another bundle of fibres, the pedunculus corporis mammillaris, takes form within the corpus mammillare and extends downwards in the gray matter of the fioor of the third ventricle, to reach the tegmentum of the mesencephalon. The ulti- mate destination of these fibres is doubtful. Tuber Oinereum and Infundi- bulum.—The tuber cinereum is a small, slightly prominent field of gray matter, which occupies the yig. 376.—Mesial Sf.ction through the Pituitary Region anterior part of the interpedun- in a Child of Twelve Months old. Cular space between the corpora From a pliotograph by Professor Symington. mammillaria behind and the optic chiasma in front. From its fore-part the infundibulum, or stalk of the pituitary body, projects downwards and connects that body with the base of the brain. In its upper part the infundibulum is hollow, a small, funnel-shaped diverticulum of the cavity of the third ventricle being prolonged downwards into it. Pituitary Body (hypophysis).—This is a small oval structure, flattened from above downwards, and with its long axis directed transversely, which occupies the pituitary fossa in the floor of the cranium. It is composed of two lobes—a large anterior lobe and a smaller posterior lobe, which are closely applied the one to the other. The infundibulum, which extends downwards from the tuber cinereum, is attached to the posterior lobe. The infundibulum and posterior lobe of the pituitary body are developed in the form of a hollow diverticulum, which grows downwards from the floor of that part of the embryonic brain, which afterwards forms the third ventricle. The original cavity of this diverticulum becomes obliterated, except in the upper part of the infundibulum. In structure, the posterior lobe of the pituitary body shows little trace of its origin from the wall of the brain-tube. It is chiefly composed of connective tissue and blood-vessels, with branched cells scattered throughout it. The anterior lobe has quite a difl'erent origin, and if any part of the pituitary body is functional, it is this lobe. It is derived by a tubular diverticulum, which grows upwards