AXIAL MUSCLES. 365 B. At the inter-phalangeal joints the movements are limited to flexion and extension. Flexion. Extension. Flexor brevis digitorum {acting on the first joint) Flexor longus digitorum (ctctiny on hotJi joints) Flexor longus hallucis {acting on the hallux) Extensor longus digitorum Extensor brevis digitorum Interossei Lumbricales Extensor proprius hallucis {acting on both joints) Movements op the Lower Limb generally. The characteristic features of the lower limb are stability and strength, and both its muscles and joints are subservient to the functions of transmission of M^eight and locomotion. In tlie standing position the centre of gravity of the trunk falls between the heads of the femora, and is located about the middle of the body of the last lumbar vertebra. It is transmitted through the bones of the lower limb to the arch of the foot, where the astragalus distributes it backwards tlirough the os calcis to the lieel, and forwards through the tarsus and metatarsus to the balls of the toes. Locomotion.—The three chief .means of progression are walking, running, and leaping. In walking, tlie body and its centre of gravity are inclined forwards, the trunk oscillates from side to side as it is supported alternately by each foot, the arms swing alternately with the correspond- ing leg, and one foot is always on the ground. The act of progression is performed by the leg, aided in two ways' by gravity. The movements of the leg are as follows :—At the beginning of a step, one leg, so to speak, " shoves off;" the heel is raised and the limli is extended. By tlie action of the muscles flexing the hip and knee-joint, and extending the ankle-joint and toes, this limb is raised from the ground sufficiently to clear it, and passes forwards by the action of gravity, aided by the force given to the movement by the extensor muscles. After 23assing the line of the centre of gravity the flexion of the joints ceases, the muscles relax, and the limb gradually returns to the ground. The other limb then passes tlirough the same cycle, the weight of the body now resting on the limb which is in contact with the ground. As the foot reaches the ground it, as it were, rolls over it; tlie heel touches it first, then the sole, and lastly, as the foot leaves the ground again, only the toes. In running, the previous events are all exaggerated. The time of* the event is diminished, while the force and distance are increased. Both feet are off the ground at one time ; the action of flexors and extensors alternately is much more powerful, so that on the one hand the knees are drawn upwards to a greater extent in the forward movement, and not the whole foot but only the toes reach the ground in the extension of the limb. The attempt is made to bring the foot to the ground in front of the line of the centre of gravity. At the same time the trunk is sloped forwards much more than in walking. In leaping, the actions of the limbs are still more exaggerated. The movements of flexion of the limb are still more marked, and the foot reaches the ground still further in front of the line of the-centre of gravity. ^ AXIAL MUSCLES. THE FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE BACK. THE FASCIA OF THE BACK. The general fascial investments of the back have been described (p. 307) along with the superficial muscles associated with the shoulder. The latissimus dorsi muscle has been described as arising in large part from the vertebral aponeu- rosis. This is a strong fibrous lamina which conceals the erector spinas muscle. In the loin it extends from the spines of the lumbar vertebrae outwards to the interval between the last rib and the iliac crest, where it is concerned in forming the lumbar fascia. Below the loin the vertebral aponeurosis is attached to the iliac crest, and more internally blends with the subjacent tendinous origin of the erector spinse. The fascia can be followed upwards over the erector spinte in the region of the thorax, where it is attached externally to the ribs and is continuous with the intercostal aponeuroses. In the lower part of the thorax it is replaced by muscular slips—the serratus posticus inferior; in the upper part of the thorax it passes beneath the serratus posticus superior and blends with the deep cervical fascia. The lumbar fascia is a narrow ligamentous l)and which connects the last rib to