PARIETAL BEANCHES OF DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA. 793 muscles. lu the subcostal groove the artery lies between the corresponding vein above and the intercostal nerve below, and it terminates in front by anastomosing with an anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary or of the musculo- phrenic artery. The lower two intercostal arteries on each side extend beyond their spaces to the abdominal wall, and anastomose with branches of the superior epigastric, subcostal, and lumbar arteries. Branches.—(a) Dorsal (ramus postei-ior).—As each artery enters its intercostal space it gives off a posterior or dorsal branch which passes backwards accompanied by tlae posterior primary division of a spinal nerve, internal to the superior costo-transverse bgamenfc, between the necks of the ribs which bound the space, and between the adjacent transverse processes, to the vertebral groove, where it divides into internal and external terminal branches. The internal branch (ramus cutaneus medialis) passes back- wards and inwards either over or through the multifidus spinje, giving branches to the muscles between which it passes and to the vertebral column. The external branch (ramus cutaneus lateraUs) runs outwards beneath the longissimus dorsi to the interval between it and the musculus accessorius. It terminates in the skin of the back, after giving branches to the adjacent muscles. A spinal branch (ramus spinalis) from each dorsal artery passes thimigh the corresponding intervertebral foramen, and enters the spinal canal, to the contents and walls of which it is distributed. It divides into three branches —neural, post-central, and pre-laminar. The neural branch runs inwards on the roots of the spinal nerve, pierces the dura mater and arachnoid, and divides into branches some of which pass to the membranes of the cord, whilst others are continued on to reinforce the dorsal and ventral spinal arteries. The post-central branch divides into ascending and descending branches which, anastomosing with similar branches above and below, form a sei'ies of vertical arches on the back of the bodies of the vertebr£e. The arches of ojjposite sides are connected by short transverse anastomoses. The pn-e-laminar branch is small, and its ascending and descending branches are distributed in a similar though less regular manner on the posterior wall of the spinal canal. (b) A collateral branch springs from the trunk of each intercostal artery near the angle of the rib. It descends to the lower border of the intercostal space, along which it runs forwards to anastomose in front, like the intercostal artery itself, with a separate anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary or musculo-phrenic artery. The collateral branches of the lower two intercostal arteries on each side are inconstant; when present they are small, and terminate in the abdominal wall. (c) Muscular branches (rami musculares) to the adjacent muscles are given off both by the main trunk and its collateral branch. {d) A lateral cutaneous (ramus cutaneus lateralis) offset from the intercostal artery accompanies the lateral cutaneous branch of the intercostal nerve.' In addition to the above-named branches the first aortic intercostal on each side anastomoses with the supei-ior intercostal, and may supply the whole or the greater part of the second intercostal space, and the first right aortic intercostal frequently gives origin to the right bronchial artery. The upper three or four aortic intercostals on each side give branches to the mammary gland which anastomose with branches of the long thoracic and internal mammary arteries. Longitudinal anastomoses between adjacent intercostal arteries and their dorsal branches sometimes exist near the necks of the ribs, or near the transverse processes. These longitudinal anastomoses are of considerable morphological interest. 2. The subcostal arteries are the last pair of parietal branches given off from the thoracic aorta. They are in series with and very similar to the aortic intercostal arteries, but are situated below the last ribs. Each runs along the lower border of the twelfth rib in company with the last dorsal nerve. It passes beneath the liga- mentum arcuatum externum to the abdomen, and there crosses in front of the quad- ratus lumborum, and behind the kidney and the adjacent part of the colon. It next pierces the aponeurosis of origin of the transversalis abdominis, and runs between the transversalis and the internal oblique muscles, anastomosing with the lower intercostals, with the lumbar arteries, and with branches of the superior epigastric artery. 3. Diaphragmatic branches (aa. phrenicae superiores) are given off from the lower part of the thoracic aorta. They are small vessels which ramify on the upper surface of the diaphragm, and anastomose with branches of the superior phrenic and musculo-phrenic arteries. 4. The vas aberrans is a variable and inconstant branch of the thoracic aorta;