2 TEXT-BOOK OF ANATOMY. through transitory structural conditions in many respects similar to the permanent condition of the heart in certain of the lower animals. It is in connexion with this that the phrase has arisen that every animal in its individual development or ontogeny climbs up its own genealogical tree: a saying which, taking it even in the broadest sense, is only partially true. The higher conceptions of anatomy, which are obtained by taking a general survey of the structural aspects of the entire animal kingdom, constitute morphology. The morphologist investigates the laws of form and structure, and in his generalisa- tions he gives attention to detail only in so far as this is necessary for the proper establishment of his views. The knowledge of anatomy which is required by the student of medicine is different. It is essentially one of detail, and often details important from the practical and utilitarian points of view have little or no morphological value. This want of balance in the interest attached to anatomical facts, according to the aspect from which they are examined, so far from being unfortunate, affords the teacher the means of making the study of anatomy at once fascinating and attractive. Almost every fact which is brought under the notice of the student can be accompanied by a morphological or a practical application. This it is that lightens a study which, presented to the student of medicine in any other way, would be at once dry and tedious. Certain terms employed in morphology require early and definite explanation. These are homology, serial homology, and homoplasy. The same organ repeated in two different animals is said to present a case of homology. But this morphological identity between these two organs must be proved beyond dispute before the homology between them can be allowed. In deciding this identity the great and essential test is that the two organs in question should have a similar develop- mental origin. Thus the fore-limb of a quadruped is homologous with the upper limb of man; the puny collar-bone of a tiger, the fibrous thread which is the only representative of this bone in the horse, and the strongly marked clavicle of the ape or man, are all, strictly speaking, homologous with each other. Homologous organs in different animals usually present a similar position and a similar structure, but not invariably so. It is not uncommon for a muscle to wander somewhat from its original position, and many cases could be quoted in which parts have become completely transformed in structure, either from disuse or for the purpose of meeting some special demand in the animal economy. In the study of the muscles and ligaments instances of this will be brought under the notice of the reader. Identity or correspondence in the function performed by two organs in two ditiVrent animals is not taken into consideration in deciding questions of homology. The gills of a fish and the lungs of a higher vertebrate perform very much the same physiological office, and yet they are not homologous. The term analogy is often used to express functional correspondence of this kind. Often organs which perform totally different functions are yet perfectly homologous. Thus the wing of a bat or the wing of a bird, both of which are subservient to flight, are homologous with the upper \imh of man, the office of which is tlie different one of prehension. In the construction of vertebrates and certain otlier animal groups a series of similar parts are repeated along a longitudinal axis, one after the other. Thus the series of vertebr;e which ])uild up the backbone, the series of ribs whicli gird round either side of the chest, the series of intercostal muscles whicli fill up the intervals between the ril)s, the series of nerves which arise from the fjraiu and spinal cord, are all exain]>les of tliis. An animal exliiljiting such a condition of parts is said to present the segmental type of organisation, and in tlie early stages of development this segmentation is much more strongly marked, and is to be seen in parts which