831 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Internal jugular veins (Figs.' 552 and 582).—Each internal jugular vein (v. jugularis interna) commences in the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen, as the direct cojitinuation of the lateral sinus, and terminates behind the cartilage of the first rib by uniting with the subclavian vein of the same side to form the innominate vein. At its commencement it is dilated, forming tine bull) of the jugular vein, and in this situation it lies behind and somewliat to the outer side of the internal carotid artery and tlie last four cranial nerves. As it descends it accompanies first the internal and then the common carotid artery ; inclining forwards during its descent, it gradually passes from its original position, l)eliind and to the outer side of the internal carotid artery, and lies more completely to the outer side of the internal and common carotid arteries, and indeed somewhat overlaps the latter in front. This is more especially the case on the left side, for both internal jugular veins trend slightly towards the right as they descend; consequently at the root of the neck the right vein is separated from the right connuon carotid artery by a small interval filled by areolar tissue, whilst the left vein is more directly in front of the corresponding common carotid artery. Within an inch of its lower extremity each internal jugular vein is pro- vided with a valve consisting of one or two cusps, which, however, is frequently incompetent. Relations.—The vein hes in front of the transverse processes of the cervical verte- brie, the rectus caj)itis lateralis, rectus capitis anticus major, and scalenus anticus muscles, the ascending cervical artery, which runs upwards in the interval between the attach- ments of the two latter muscles, and the phrenic nerve; the suprascapular and the transverse cervical arteries intervene between it and the scalenus anticus. At the root of the neck the vein lies in front of the first part of the subclavian artery and the oiigins of the vertebral artery and the thyroid axis, and on the left side it is in front of the terminal part of the thoracic duct. On the inner side of the internal jugular vein, inmiediately below the skull, are the internal carotid artery and the last four cranial nerves; in the rest of its extent it is in relation internally either with the internal or the common carotid artery, whilst to its inner side and somewhat posteriorly, between it and the large arteries, lies the vagus nerve. Each internal jugular vein is covered in the whole of its length by the sterno-mastoid muscle ; near its upper end it is crossed by the posterior bell}' of the digastric, whilst in its lower half, in addition to the sterno-mastoid, the omo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid, and the sterno-thyroid muscles are supeificial to it. Just below- the transverse process of the atlas, and under cover of the sterno-mastoid, the vein is crossed on its outer side by the sjjinal accessory nerve and by the occipital artery ; about the middle of its course it is also crossed by the communicaus cervicis nerve, and near its lower end by the anterior jugular vein ; the latter vessel, however, is separated from it by the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyi'oid muscles. Superficial to the vein are immerous deep cervical lymphatic glands. Tributaries.—(«) The inferior petrosal sinus, which joins it near its commencement. (f/) Pharyngeal branches from the venous plexus on the wall of the pharynx, (c) The common facial vein, which receives the facial vein and its tributaries. ((/) The lingual veins (vv. lingiiales), small venae comites, which conmience chiefly in the sublingual and dorsalis lingua; veins, and accompany the first and second parts of the lingual artery, (e) The ranine vein, which commences beneath the tip of the tongue, and accompanies at first the two terminal parts of the lingual artery, and afterwards the hypoglossal nerve. (/') The superior thyroid vein (v. thyreoidca superioris), which accompanies the corresponding artery. (//) The middle thyroid vein, which passes backwards from the lateral lobe of the thyroid body and crosses the middle of the outer aspect of the common carotid artery, (h) The occipital vein (v. occipitalis) occasionally terminates in the internal jugular vein. In many cases, however, it ends in the suboccipital plexus, which is drained by the vertebral and deep~^cervical veins (see p. 830). The common facial vein (v. facialis communis) is formed by the union of the facial vein (v. facialis anterior) with the anterior division, or terminal branch, of a venous trunk which lies in substance of the parotid gland, and which is called the temporo- maxillary vein (v. facialis posterior). It acconipanics the first part of the facial artei-y