834 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. The posterior auricular vein (v. auricularis posterior, Fig. 580) receives tributaries from the posterior parts of the parietal and temporal regions and from the inner surface of the pinna. It is considerably larger than the posterior auricular artery, which it only accompanies in the scalp. At the base of the scalp it leaves the artery and descends in the superficial fascia, over the upper part of the sterno-mastoid, to open into the commence- ment of the external jugular vein. The posterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein (see p. 835). The transverse cervical and suprascapular veins accompany the corresponding arteries; not infrequently they open directly into the subclavian vein. The anterior jugular vein (v. jugularis anterior) commences over the anterior belly of the digastric nniscle, and is formed by the luiion of small veins from the lower lip and the submental region. It descends in the superficial fascia, at a variable distance from the middle line, and perforates the superficial layer of the deep fascia just above the inner end of the clavicle. It there enters the space above the manubrivun sterni, which lies between the first and second laj^ers of the deep cervical fascia, and which is called Burns's space, where, after anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side and receiving a communication from the facial vein, it turns outwards, between the sterno-mastoid super- ficially and the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and. scalenus anticus muscles deeply, to terminate at the outer border of the latter muscle in the external jugular vein. The Veins of the Scalp. The veins which drain the l)lood from the superficial parts of the scalp are the frontal, the supra-orbital, tlie superficial temporal, the posterior auricular, and the occipital. The blood from the deeper part of the scalp, in the region of the temporal fossa on each side, passes into the deep temporal veins, which are tributaries of the pterygoid plexus. The frontal (v. frontaHs) and supra - orbital veins (v. supra - orbitalis) receive blood from the inner and front part of the scalp. They unite together, near the inner angle of the orbit, to form the angular vein; before the union is effected the supra-orbital vein sends a branch backwards through the supra-orl)ital notch into the orbital cavity, where it terminates in the ophthahnic vein, and as this brancli passes through the notch it receives the frontal diploic vein (p. 836). The superficial temporal vein (v. temporaUs superficiahs) receives trilju- taries from the outer part of the frontal region, from the greater part of the superficial area of the temporal region, and from the anterior part of the parietal region. It passes downwards, across the posterior root of the zygoma, into the parotid gland, where it unites with the internal maxillary vein to form the temporo- maxillary trunk. The posterior auricular vein (v. auricularis posterior) drains the posterior portions of the temporal and parietal areas of the scalp. It runs downwards across the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and terminates in the external jugular vein. The occipital vein (v. occipitalis, Fig. 580) receives tributaries from the inner and posterior part of the parietal region and from the occipital region. As a rule it pierces the occipital origin of the trapezius, and, passing deeply into the sub- occipital triangle, terminates in a plexus of veins which is drained by the vertebral and deep cervical veins. It sometimes communicates with the external jugular vein, and occasionally an offset from it accompanies the corresponding artery and ends in the internal jugular vein. It generally receives the mastoid emissary vein; one of its tributaries receives the parietal emissary vein, and occasionally an emissary vein from the torcular Herophili opens into it. The Veins of the Okbit, the Nose, and the Pterygo-Maxillary Kegion. The veins of these three regions are closely associated together; for although the orbital blood is returned for the most part to the cavernous sinus by the ophthalmic vein, the latter vein is closely connected with the pterygoid plexus which lies in the pterygo-maxillary region.