444 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. CEPHALIC FLEXURE Fig. 330.—Profile View of the Brain of a Human Embryo of Ten Weeks (His). The various cranial nerves are indicated by numerals. A, Cerebral diverticulum of pituitary body. B, Buccal diverticulum of pituitary body. The primary cephalic flexure is soon followed by the cervical flexure. This occurs at tlie j miction of the hind- brain with the spinal cord. Here the entire head is bent in a ventral direction, and at the end of the fifth week the flexure is so pronounced that the cerebral and spinal cord portions of the neural tube meet each other at a right angle. In the later stages of development the cervical flexure becomes obliterated by the ele- vation of the head and the straighten- ing of the neck of the embryo. The third bend takes place in the region of the future pons Varolii (metencephalon), and is consequently termed the pontine flexure. It differs from the other flexures in being confined to the brain tube and in not in any way involving the entire head. Further, the bend is much more marked in the thick ventral wall than in the thin dorsal wall of the tube. The neural tube is doubled forwards on itself and the pons Varolii becomes developed in connexion with the summit of the curvature. In the further growth of the brain the pontine flexure becomes almost completely obliterated. By reason of these curvatures the early brain assumes a sinuous, zigzag or S-shaped outline when viewed from the side, and the relationship of its various parts be- comes materially altered. The essential factor at work in the production of the brain flexures is clearly the very unequal growth which takes place in different parts of the cerebral wall. The Basal and Alar Laminae of His.—It has been r)ointed out that —Diagrams to illustrate the Alar and Basal Lamina. Iu botli f ^ J ' cases the embryonic brain is represented in mesial section—(His). , f ,1 • 1 A. Tlie different subdivisions of the brain are marked off from each other by dotted ment OI tne Spmal li^es, and the dotted line running in the long axis of the neural tube indicates the cord, each of the separation of the alar from the basal lamina of the lateral wall. thick lateral walls B. Mesial section tlirougli the brain of a human embryo at the end of the first of the neural tube moutti- Dotted Hues mark off the different regions and also the alar and basal 1 1 • , lamiutB from each other. IS marked on mto T , 1 1 H, Buccal "part of pituitary body ; RL, Olfactory lobe ; C.Str, Corpus striatum ; a aorsal or aiar Entrance to optic stalk ; 0, Optic recess ; I, Infundibular recess ; T, Tuber and a ventral or cinereum ; M, Mammillary eminence.