521 PAEIETAL LOBE. lobe is continuous interiorly with that of the temporal lobe, and an arbitrary line drawn backwards on the surface of the brain, in continuation of the horizontal part of the posterior limb of the Sylvian fissure, is taken as its inferior limit. Posteriorly, it is separated from the occipital lobe at the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere by the external parieto-occipital fissure. Below th-is fissure the surface of the parietal lobe is continuous with that of the occipital lobe; and an arbitrary line drawn across the outer surface of the hemisphere, from the extremity of the external parieto-occipital fissure to ap indentation on the infero-lateral border of the hemisphere, termed the prgeoccipital notch, may be regarded as furnishing a posterior limitation. Tlie prpeoecijjital notcli is, a.s a rule, only visible in brains tliat have l)een hardened in situ. It is j^laced on the infero-lateral border of the hemisphere, about an inch and a half in front of the occipital pole, and is produced by a vertical fold or wrinkle of the dura mater on the deep aspect of the parieto-mastoid suture, and immediately above the highest part of the lateral bloocl-sinus. There is great variability in the degree to which this Ibid of dura mater projects in different individuals. In the child it is always very salient, and often produces a deep cleft in the brain, but as the full size of the cranium is gradually attained it becomes much less projecting. In the young skull two or tliree such folds in this locality are usually apparent. Eelated to the prse- occipital notch there are likeAvise some cerebral veins which turn round the infero-lateral margin of the hemisphere to join the lateral blood-sinus. On the mesial surface of the hemisphere the parietal lobe is represented by the prsecuneus or ctuadrate lobule. This district, which is somewhat quadrilateral in form, lies between the upturned end of the calloso-marginal sulcus and the internal parieto-occipital fissure. It is imperfectly separated below from the limbic lobe by a somewhat variable furrow called the post-limbic sulcus. The gyri and sulci, on the outer surface of the parietal lobe, are the following :— Sulc Sulcus intrapari- etalis (of Tur- ner). 'Sulcus post centralis inferior. Sulcus postcentralis superior. Eamus horizontalis. , Ramus occipitalis. Upturned ends of— (re) Sylvian fissure. (6) Parallel fissure, (c) Second tempo- ral fissure. /Gyrus ascendens parietalis or gyrus postcentralis. Gyrus joarietalis superior. Gyri Gyrus parietalis inferior . Gyrus su^n-a- marginalis. Gyrus angul- aris. Gyrus post- parietalis. The intraparietal sulcus (of Turner) is a composite furrow, and is built up of four originally distinct factors. Two of these, termed the sulcus postcentraHs inferior and the sulcus postcentralis superior, take a more or less oblique course across the hemisphere, and are most frequently united into one continuous fissure. The other two factors are placed horizontally, one behind the other, and are termed the ramus horizontalis and the ramus occipitalis. The sulcus postcentralis inferior lies behind the lower part of the fissure of Eolando, whilst the sulcus postcentralis superior occupies a similar position in relation to the upper part of that fissure. When confluent they form a long, con- tinuous fissure, which stretches across the hemisphere behind the fissure of Eolando and parallel to it. The ramus horizontalis is continuous, as a rule, with the upper end of the sulcus postcentralis inferior, and extends backwards, with a slight inclination upwards between the superior parietal gyrus, which lies above it, and the inferior parietal gyrus, which is placed below it. With the two confluent postcentral sulci it presents a figure like the letter H placed on its side. The ramus occipitalis is a curved sulcus which bounds externally the arcus parieto-occipitalis, or, in other words, the arching convolution which surrounds the external parieto-occipital fissure. The ramus occipitalis lies behind the ramus horizontalis, and is generally Hnked on to it; less frequently it is separate. The posterior end of the ramus occipitalis enters the occipital lobe, and, behind the arcus parieto-occipitalis, bifurcates into two widely-spread-out branches. These form a short transverse fissure in the occipital lobe, termed the sulcus occipitalis transversus.