27 THE EMBKYO. appendages, and of the glands which open on it. Thus the hairs and hair-follicles, the nails, the enamel of the teeth, the epithelium of the sebaceous glands, of the sweat glands, and of the mam- mary glands are all ecto- dermal. The epithelium of the conjunctivfe and of the lachrymal glands is also de- rived from ectoderm. The roof of the mouth, the inner surfaces of the cheeks, the nasal passages and their associated cavities, together with the adjacent part of the pharynx and the anterior lobe of the pituitary body, as well as the external auditory canal and the outer layer of the tympanic membrane, are all developed from the sur- face, and their epithelium, with that of their glands, is ectodermal in origin. The epithelium of the sense organs, except that of taste (the tongue), is derived from ectoderm; the auditory and olfactory epithelial elements, and those of the lens and cornea, are from surface ectoderm; whilst the epithelial elements of the retina are from neural ectoderm. The neural ectoderm is removed from the surface to form the neural tube and neural crest, from which the cells and fibres of the whole of the nervous system, Fig. 20.—-The Relative Positions of the Blastodermic Layers IN the Body of the Embryo when the "Folding Off" is Completed (Diagrammatic). I. Transverse section through the umbilical aperture. II. Similar section in front of or behind the umbilicus. Alimentary canal. EN. Entoderm. N. Notochord. Ectoderm. M. Mesoderm. SC. Spinal cord. VI. Vitello-intestinal duct and umbilical aperture. AC EC. -EC SpP Fig. 21.—Transverse Section of a Ferret Embryo, CC. Central canal. CL. Cutaneous lamella of protover- tebral somite. CO. Ccelom. EC. Ectoderm. EN. Entoderm. GC. Germinal cell. Showing further differentiation of the mesoderm. ML. Muscular layer of protover- tebral somite. N. Notochord. NC. Neural crest. PA. Primitive aorta. PS. Protovertebral somite. SB. Spongioblast. SpP. Splauclinopleure. SC. SG. SL. SoM, SoP. Spinal cord. Spinal ganglion. Scleratogenous layer of pro- tovertebral somite. Somatic mesoderm. Somatopleure. SpM. Splanchnic mesoderm. both central and peripheral, and the sustentacular tissue of the brain and spinal cord, are developed. The neural ectoderm also furnishes the epithelial elements of the retinte, the pineal gland, and of the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. The entoderm lines the alimentary canal and the spaces and glands which open cells receive their nourishment from blood-vessels which are in their vicinity. Epithelial cells are modified in accordance with the particular functions they are called upon to serve, and they present many variations in shape, size, and structure, e.g. the neuro-epithelial cells of the central nervous system and of the peripheral sense organs differ considerably from the more Ordinary epithelial type ; but they are simply more specialised, and therefore more modified.