THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. 648 arteries, in its course to the side of the pharynx. It sweeps round the stylo- pharyngeus muscle and the stylo-hyoid hganient, and disappears beneath the hyoglossus muscle, to reach its ter- mination in the tongue. The branches of the nerve may 1)6 classified in three series, accord- ing to their origin—(i.) in the jugular foramen ; (ii.) in the neck ; (iii.) in relation to the tongue. In the jugular foramen there are two enlargements upon the trunk of the nerve—the jugular and petrous ganglia. The jugular ganglion (g. superius) is small, does not implicate the whole width of the nerve, and may be fused with the petrous ganglion, or even .ab- sent altogether. No branches arise from it. The petrous ganglion (g. petro- sum) is distinct and constant. It is placed upon the nerve at the lower part of its course through the jugular foramen. Branches and Communications of the Petrous Ganglion.—The tympanic branch (n. tympanicus, Jacobson's nerve) is the most important offset from this ganglion. It passes through a small canal in the })ridge of bone Ijetween the jugular fora- men and the carotid canal to reach the cavity of the tympanum, where it l.)reaks up into branches, to form, along with branches from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic on the internal carotid artery (small deep petrosal nerve), the tympanic plexus for the supply of the mucous lining of the tympanum, mastoid cells, and Eustachian tube (Fig. 463, p. 645). The fibres of the tympanic Ijranch'of the'^glosso-pharyngeal nerve Vjecome reunited to form, by their union with a small nerve from the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve, the small superficial petrosal nerve in the suljstance of tlie temporal bone. This passes forwards through the temporal l)one, and eventually joins the otic ganghon. Besides forming the tympanic branch, the petrous gangliou of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve communicates with three other nerves—(1) with the superior cervical ganglion of the sj^mpathetic; (2) with the auricular branch of the pneuraogastric ; and (3) sometimes with the gangliou of the root of the pneumogasti'ic. «. In the neck the glosso-pharyngeal nerve gives off two branches. (1) As it crosses over the stylo - pharyngeus muscle it supplies the nerve to that muscle, which sends fibres through it to reach the mucous membrane of the pharynx. (2) The pharyngeal branches of the nerve supply the mucous membrane of the pharynx directly, after piercing the superior constrictor muscle, and indirectly, after joining, along with the pharyngeal offsets from the pneumogastric and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, in the formation of the pharyngeal plexus. The terminal branches of the nerve supply the mucous membrane of the tongue and adjacent parts. A tonsillitic branch forms a plexus (circulus tonsillarisj Fic. 466.—Scheme ok the Distribution of the GLf)Sso- PHARYNGEAL NERVE. G.Ph, Glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; J, Jugular, and P, Petrous ganglia ; Ty, Tympanic branch (Jacobson's nerve) : Ty.Plex, Tympanic plexus ; Fa, Root from geniculate ganglion of facial nerve ; S.S.P, Small superficial petrosal nerve to the otic ganglion ; S.D.P, Small deep petrosal nerve ; I.C, Internal carotid artery ; Va, Pneumogastric nerve ; Aur, Auricular branch (Arnold's nerve) ; Sy, Superior cervical sympathetic ganglion ; F, Communi- cating Ijranch to facial nerve ; Ph, Pharyngeal branch of vagus ; E.C, External carotid artery ; Ph.Pl, Pharyngeal plexus; S.Ph, Stylo-pharyngeus muscle; S.H.L, Stylo- hyoid ligament ; H.G, Hyo-glossus ; S.G, Stylo-glossus : Ton, Tonsil; S.Pal, Soft palate ; G.H.G/Genio-hyoglossus ; G.H, Genio-hyoid ; Hy, Hyoid bone.