THE FEMUE. 219 I'vriforims Fossa for_ HG. TERES Neck Digital FOSSA Intertrochanteric ridge- Psoas magiuis. Small trochanter Pectineal line Vastus internus —-) Ailductor inagnus Gluteus maximus Gluteal ridge Ailductor brevi inferior angle is a rough liue which serves for the insertion of the gluteus medius muscle; above and below this the surface of the bone is smoother and is overlain by bursie. The anierior surface, somewhat oljlong in shape, and inclined obliquely from below upwards and inwards, is elevated from the general aspect of the shaft below, from which it is separ- head ated in front by an oblique line leading upwards and inwards to the tubercle at the upper end of the superior part of the spiral line. This surface serves for the insertion of the gluteus minimus. The superior border is curved and elevated; into it are inserted the tendons of the obturator internus and gemelli muscles within and in front, and the pyriformis muscle above and behind. The posterior border is thick and rounded, and forms the upper part of the posterior inter- trochanteric ridge. The angle formed by the superior and posterior borders is sharp and pointed, and forms the tip of the trochanter overhanging the digital fossa, which lies imme- diately below and within its inner surface. The trochanter minor is an elevated pyramidal process situated at the back of the inner and upper partof the shaft where that becomes continuous with the lower and posterior part of the neck. Confluent above with the posterior intertro- chanteric ridge, it gradually fades away into the back of the^ shaft below. The combined tendon of the ilio-psoas is inserted into this process and the bone immediately below it. The shaft (corpus femoris), which is characterised by its great length, is cylin- drical in form. As viewed from the front, it is straight or but slightly curved; as seen in profile, it is bent forwards, the curve being most pronounced in its upper part. The shaft is thinnest at some little distance above its middle; below this it gradually increases in width to support the condyles interiorly; its aiitero-posterior diameter, however, is not much increased below. Its surfaces are generally smooth and rounded, except behind, where, running longitudinally down the centre of its curved posterior aspect, there is a rough-lipped ridge, the linea aspera (linea aspera). Most salient towards the middle of the shaft, the linea aspera consists of an inner lip (labium mediale) and an outer lip (labium laterale), with a narrow intervening rough surface. Above, about 2 to 2^ inches from the trochanter minor, the linea aspera is formed by the convergence of three lines. Of these the outer is a rough, somewhat elevated, ridge, which commences above, on the back of the shaft, external to and on a level with the trochanter minor, and becomes continuous below with the outer lip of the linea aspera. This serves for the bony insertion of the gluteus maximus, and is occasionally developed into an outstanding process called the trochanter tertius. Internally the inner lip of the linea aspera is confluent above with a line which winds round the shaft upwards and forwards in front of the trochanter minor to become continuous with the rough ridge which serves to define VUTERIAL FORAMEN Linea aspera Fio. 162.—Back View Upper End of Eight Femur.