470 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. situated behind the biventral lobule and bounds the great horizontal fissure below. Tliese lobules, with the corresponding portions of the vermis inferior, constitute the lobes on tlie under aspect of the cerebellum. Lobus Noduli.—The lobus noduli comprises the nodule and the fiocculus of I Pyramid Tuber valvula> Fig. 349.—Lower Surface of the Cerebellum. The tonsil on the right .side has been removed so as to display more fully the inferior medullary velum and the furrowed band. each side, with a delicate connecting lamina of white matter, termed the inferior medullary velum. Lobus Uvulae.—The uvula is a triangular elevation of the vermis inferior which lies between the two tonsils. It is connected across the sulcus valleculiB with each tonsil by a low-lying ridge of gray matter scored by a few shallovV^' furrows, and in consequence termed the furrowed band. The two tonsils and the uvula form the lobus uvuke. Lobus Pyramidis.—^The pyramid is connected with the biventral lobule on each side by a faint ridge which crosses the sulcus valleculie. The term lobus pyramidis is applied to the three lobules, which are thus associated with each other. Lobus Tuberis.—The tuber valvulte, which forms the most posterior part of the vermis inferior, is composed of several folia which run directly into ■ the postero-inferior lobule on each side. The three parts of the lobus tuberis are thus linked together. The postero-inferior lobule is traversed by three curved fissures, which divide it more or less distinctly into four parts. Of these the two anterior form the lobulus gracilis, and the two posterior ■ the lobulus semilunaris inferior. Arrangement of the Gray and White Matter of the Cerebellum.—The white matter of the cereljelhun forms a solid compact mass in the interior, and over this is spread a continuous and uniform layer of gray matter. In each lateral hemi- sphere the white central core is more bulky than in the median lobe or worm, in which the central white matter is reduced to a relatively thin bridge thrown across between the two lateral hemispheres. The white matter in the interior of the median lobe or worm is termed the corpus trapezoides. When sagittal sections are made through the cerebellum, the gray matter on the surface stands out clearly from the white matter in the interior. Further, from all parts of the surface of the central core stout stems of white matter are seen projecting into the lobes of the cerebellum. From the sides of these white stems secondary branches proceed at various angles, and from these again tertiary branches are given off. (3ver the various lamellae of white matter thus formed the gray cortex is spread, and the fissures on the surface show a corresponding arrangement, dividing up the organ into lobes, lobules, and folia. AVhen the cerebellum is divided at right angles to