THE MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. 377 The levator labii inferioris alseque nasi is a narrow band arising from the root of the nasal process of the maxilla. It descends alongside the nose, and is inserted partly into the ala of the nose and partly into the orbicularis oris muscle. 3. The muscles of the mouth comprise eleven muscles, of which one, the orbicularis, is a single muscle, the others being bilaterally placed: levator labii superioris alseque nasi, levator labii superioris, levator anguli oris, zygomatici (major and minor), risorius, depressor anguli oris, depressor labii inferioris, levator menti, and buccinator. The orbicularis oris is the sphincter muscle surrounding the lips. It is con- tinuous with the other muscles converging to the mouth. It lies between the skin and mucous membrane of the mouth, and is Kmited above by the nose, below by the junction of lower lip and chin. Its mesial fibres are attached above to the septum of the nose (naso-labial band) and to the incisor fossa (superior incisive bundle); below to the lower jaw on each side of the sympliysis (inferior incisive bundle). These bundles radiate outwards to join the rest of the muscle, which is joined at its margin by the levators and depressors of the lower lip and angle of the mouth, and by the buccinator muscle. The lowei' fibres of the muscle are continued laterally into buccinator and levator anguli oris ; its upper fibres are continued into the buccinator and depressor anguli oris. The levator labii superioris alaeque nasi has been already described. The levator labii superioris arises from the superior maxilla just above the infraorbital foramen. It passes almost vertically downwards to join the orbi- cularis oris and the skin of the upper lip between the attachments of the levator labii superioris alseque nasi and the levator anguli oris. It conceals the infra- orbital vessels and nerve. The levator anguli oris arises from the canine fossa of the upper jaw below the infraorbital foramen and under cover of tlie foregoing muscle. It is directed outwards and downwards, to be inserted into the orbicularis oris and the skin at the angle of the mouth. The zygomatici (major and minor) are more superficial than the preceding muscle. The zygomaticus minor is the anterior muscle. It arises from the malar bone, and is often continuous with the most peripheral fibres of the orbicularis palpe- brarum. It is directed obliquely downwards and forwards over the levator anguli oris, to be inserted, along with the levator labii superioris, into the orbicularis oris. The zygomaticus major is a narrow muscular band which arises from the malar portion of the zygomatic arch. It passes to the angle of the mouth, to be inserted partly into the skin, partly* into the orbicularis oris. The risorius is a thin fiat muscle which forms partly a continuation of the platysma myoides on the face, partly a separate muscle, with an origin from the masseteric fascia. It passes transversely forwards, to be inserted at the angle of the mouth into the orbicularis oris and skin. The depressor anguli oris arises from the external oblique line of the lower jaw and from the platysma myoides. It is triangular in form, its fibres converging to the angle of the mouth, where they are inserted into the orbicularis oris and the skin. Some of the fibres reach the upper lip through the orbicularis muscle. The depressor labii inferioris arises from the outer surface of the lower jaw beneath and internal to the depressor anguli oris. It is quadrilateral in form, and is directed upwards, to be inserted into the orbicularis oris and the skin of the lower lip. Its external fibres conceal the mental foramen, and are overlapped by the depressor anguli oris. Its internal fibres join with those of the opposite muscle. The levator menti is a small muscle which arises from the incisor fossa of the lower jaw, and passing forwards, is inserted into the skin of the chin. The buccinator muscle forms the lateral wall of the mouth, and is in series posteriorly with the constrictor muscles of the pharynx. It arises (1) from the alveolar arches of the upper and lower jaws, and between these attachments, from the pterygo-mandibular ligament. Its fibres are directed forwards to the angle of the mouth, where they blend with the corresponding (upper and lower) portions of • \