THE EESPIEATORY SYSTEM. 924 Left coiimiOM carotid artery Vagus nerve Ijeft suljclavian artery Thoracic duct Left coimnon carotid artery Vagus iier\e L. subclavian artery Left recurrent, laryngeal nerve ConinioM carotiil artery Inferior thyroid artery 1*1^'. Hecurrent laryngeal nerve ii'izfi^GCsopliagu s Innominate artery (X_Vag^s nerve Pleura Flirenic nervi Relations of the Trachea.—In the study of the relations of the trachea it is convenient to consider it in the two stages of cervical and tlioracic. Wlien the chin is held so that the face looks forwards the cervical part of the trachea measures from 2 to 2h inches in length; hut when the head is thrown Thyroid body h&ck the length is consider- Trachea 3 ably increased. In its upper part the trachea is clasped by the tliyroid body, the isthmus of which is applied to its anterior surface, and covers the second, third, and f(;urth rings, whilst on each side the lateral lobe of the same body is ap})lied to its lateral surface, and extends down- wards as low as the fifth ring. On eitlier side of the cervical trachea is the common carotid arter}', whilst the recurrent laryngeal nerve ascends in the groove between the trachea and the oesophagus. Posteriorly the trachea is in relation to the oesophagus, whicli intervenes between it and the bodies of the verte- brae, and deviates somewhat to the left as it descends. In addition to the isthmus of the thyroid l)ody two thin muscular strata, composed of the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles, and also tlu! deep fascia and integument, separate the cervical trachea from the surface. In the middle line of the neck there is a narrow diamontl-shaped space l)etween the inner margins of these muscles, within which the trachea is merely covered by the integu- ments and fascife. It is im- portant to note that in the lower part of the neck the deep cervical fascia is in two layers—viz. a strong stratum applied to the anteriorsurface of the sterno - hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and a weaker superficial layer stretching across between the Intercostal arteries Vena azygos major liifurcatiou of trachea jarterial bronchus er\'e irtery major Thoracic t Fig. 626.—Transvekse Sections throngli the tra<:liea and its imme- diate surroundings at tlie level of each of the upper five dorsal vertebriE. two sterno-mastoid muscles. Beneath these muscular and fascial layers the inferior thyroid veins descend on the surface of the tracliea, and sometimes tlie occasional thyroidea ima artery passes upwards in front of the tube. At the upper liorder of the manu))rium sterni the innominate artery may be seen crossing the trachea obliquely. Tlie thoracic part of the trachea is situated in the liack part of the superior