821 PLANTAK AETEKIES. Internal calcaneal branch of external plantar artery Long calcaneo- cuboid ligament Klexor accessorius muscle Abductor minim digiti mnscle inner side of the foot, in the interval between the abductor hallucis and the flexor brevis digitoriim, to the head of the first metatarsal bone, where it terminates by uniting with the plantar digital branch of the dorsalis hallucis, which is distributed to the inner side of the great toe. In its course forwards it gives Ijrauches to the adjacent muscles and articulations, and to the subjacent skin; it also gives three digital branches which anastomose at the roots of the inner three interdigital clefts, with the princeps hallucis branch of the dorsalis pedis and with the inner two digital branches from the plantar arch. Some of the cutaneous branches of the internal plantar artery anastomose, round the inner border of the foot, with the inner cutaneous branches of the dorsalis pedis artery. External Plantar Artery (a. plantaris later- alis). — This artery, the larger of the two terminal branches of the posterior tibial artery, runs forwards and outwards, first be- tween the flexor brevis digitorum and the acces- sorius and then in the interval between the flexor brevis digitorum and the abductor minimi digiti, to the inner side of the base of the fifth meta- tarsal bone, where it turns abruptly inwards ; it then passes across the bases of the metatarsal bones and the origins of the inter- ossei,andabovethe oblique adductor of the great toe, to the outer side of the base of the first metatarsal bone, where it terminates by anastomosing with the dorsaUs pedis artery. The last part of the artery is convex forwards and forms the plantar arch, which is completed l^y the dorsahs pedis. Branches.—B e t w e e n its origin and the base of the fifth metatarsal the external plantar artery gives off (a) the internal calcaneal branch, which is distributed to the skin and the subcutaneous tissue of the heel. (b) Muscular branches to the abductor hallucis, flexor brevis digitorum, accessorius, and abductor minimi digiti. (c) Cutaneous branches to the skin of the outer side of the foot. Between the base of the fifth metatarsal bone and the first interosseous space it forms the plantar arch (arcus plantaris), and gives off" (d) four digital branches (aa. metatarsse plantares); (e) three posterior perforating arteries (i-ami perforantes) to the dorsal inter- osseous arteries; and (/) articular branches to the tarsal joints. The outermost digital branch runs along the outer side of the little toe, sup>plying the skin, joints, and the flexor tendons with their synovial sheaths. The inner three digital branches run forwards on the plantar surfaces of the interossei, the» inner two lying dorsal to the oblique adductor of the great toe, and all three passing dorsal to the Calcaneal branch of posterior tibial artery Posterior tibial artery Internal plantar arter External plai Flexor longus digitorum tendon Flexor longus hallucis tendon Flexor brevis hallucis muscle Arteria magna hallucis Oblique adductor hallucis Digital arteries Fig. 577.—The Plantar Arteries and their Branches.