678 THE OKGANS OF SENSE. Crus laterale ^ of lower ,. , ' lateral medialej^^,.j,, Fatty tissue of nasi Fig. 487.—Cartilages of Nose from Below. The nasal fossa above and behind the vestibule is divided into two parts, viz. an upper or olfactory, and a lower or respiratory region. The olfactory part, or regio olfactoria, is a narrow sht-like cavity, and comprises the region of the superior turbinated bone, together with a correspond- ing portion of the septum. The respiratory- part, or regio respiratoria, is expanded, and includes the lower and remaining parts of the fossa. Inner Wall or Septum Nasi (Fig. 484). —-Where the bony septum is deficient, below and in front, the gap is filled by the septal cartilage. Until the seventh year the nasal septum lies, as a rule, in the mesial plane, but after this age is very often deflected to one or other side—more frequently to the right — the deflection taking place along the line of junction of the vomer and mesethmoid. In the floor of the fossa, close to the lower edge of the septal cartilage and immediately over the incisive foramen, a slight depression, the recessus nasopalatinus, may be seen. It is directed downwards and forwards, and indicates the position of the communication which originally \-^"^'-^^'^-^ existed between the nasal and buccal cavities. In the septum, a little above and in front of this depres- sion, is a minute orifice, not always recognisable, from which a blind pouch ex- tends upwards and backwards for a distance of from 2 to 9 mm. This is the rudi- mentary organ of Jacobson (orga- non vomero- nasale) and is supported by the vomerine carti- lage. In many of Antrum of Highmore Inferior meatus Fig. 488.—Coronal Section through Nasal Fossje Viewed from Behind. Anterior Half of Section and in them probably the olfactory nerve is the lower animals this organ is well developed (Fig. 489), plays a part in the sense of smell, as to it a branch of distributed. Outer Wall (Fig. 490).—Above the superior turbinated bone is a narrow recess, the recessus spheno-ethmoidalis, into the posterior part of which the sphenoidal air sinus opens. The superior meatas (meatus nasi superior) is a short oblique fissure, directed downwards and backwards, under cover of the superior turbinated bone; into its antero-superior portion the posterior ethmoidal cells open by one or more orifices. The middle meatus (meatus nasi medius), situated externally to the middle turbinated bone, is a roomy passage, and is continued forwards into a slightly depressed area termed the atrium meatus nasi, which lies immediately above the vestibule. The atrium is limited aljove and in front by a low ridge, the agger nasi, the repre- sentative of the naso-turbinal found in many animals. On raising or removing the