24U downwards; this rests on the central articular surface on the anterior aspect ol' the navicular. In front the bone articulates by means of a wedge-shaped facet with the base of the metatarsal bone of the second toe. The external or third cuneiform (os cuneiforme tertium) intermediate in size between the first and second, is also of a typical wedge shape. Its superior surface, M1DD...C0NK.KOKM cuBon. IV. mktatarsa.. sUghtly couvcx froiu sidc to ^ side, provides attachments for I the dorsal ligaments. Its S inferior or plantar aspect is I narrow and tubercular, and ^ serves for the attachment of Fi(i. 186.—Ri(arr Extkknai, Cuneiform (Iimer Side). 11;. 187.— RUiHT EXTERNA!, Cuneiform (Outer Side). the plantar ligaments. Its inner side, of quadrilateral form, displays two narrow articular strips, placed along its anterior and posterior borders respectively, each somewhat constricted in the middle. The anterior articulates with the outer side of the base of the second metatarsal bone, the posterior with the outer side of the middle cuneiform. The rough non-articular surface, which separates the two elongated facets, serves for the attachment of ligaments. The outer aspect of the bone is characterised by a large circular or oval facet, placed near its hinder border, for articulation with the cuboid ; in front of this the anterior border is lipped above by a small semi-oval facet for articulation with the inner side of the base of the fourth metatarsal. The rest of the bone around and between these facets is rough for ligaments. Proximally the bone is furnished with a triangular facet for articulation with the outer wedge-shaped area on the front of the navicular, whilst distally it articulates with the base of the third metatarsal hj a surface of corre- sponding shape. Variations.—Numerous cases of division of the internal cuneiform bone into dorsal and Slantar parts have been recorded; the freqiient division of its metatarsal articular facet is no oubt correlated with this anomalous condition. The Cuboid Bone. External cuneiform Navicular (occiisioiial) The cuboid (os cuboideum) lies on the outer side of the foot, about its middle, articulating with the os calcis behind and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones iu front. Its upper surface, plane in an antero-posterior direction, is slightly rounded from side to side, and provides attachment for ligaments. Its plantar aspect is traversed obliquely from without inwards and forwards by a thick and prominent ridge, the outer extremity of which, at the point where it is confluent with the outer surface, forms a prominent tubercle (tuberositas oss. cuboidei), the anterior and external surface of which is smooth and faceted to allow of the play of a sesamoid bone which is fre- quently developed in the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. In front of this ridge there is a groove (sulcus peronfei) in which the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle is lodged as it passes across the under surface of the bone. Behind the ridge tiie bone is rough, and serves for the attachment of the short plantar ligament, the superficial fibres of which pass Tuberosity (ikoovic kor peroneus Groove for PERONEUS LONCl^S 'J'riii:i;usiTV Fid. 188.—The Outer Side. Right Cdboid Bone. B, Inuer Side.