THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 490 of the cerebellum (Fig. 362, E, t.). This is placed much nearer the'lower than the ujjper border of the organ, and it represents at this stage the angular peak of the tent-like roof of the fourth ventricle in the adult brain. As growth goes on, the portions of the cere- bellum in front and behind this groove approach each other, so as to deepen the groove and bring about the backward prolongation of the ventricular cavity towards the cerebellum. THE MESENCEPHALON. The mesencephalon or mid-brain is tlie short, narrow part of the brain-stem which occupies the aperture of the tentorium cerebelli (incisura tentorii), and connects the cerebrum which lies above with the parts which occupy the posterior cranial fossa. It is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and it consists of a dorsal part, composed of the corpora oLuadrigemina, and a much larger ventral part, which is formed by the two crura cerebri. In the imdissected brain the corpora quadrigemina are completely hidden from view by the splenium of the corpus callosum, which projects backwards over them, and also by the superimposed cerebral hemispheres. The hinder end of each optic thalamus likewise, to some extent, overhangs the upper part of the mesencephalon on its dorsal and lateral aspect (Fig. 333, p. 447). On this portion of the optic thalamus are seen two projections, which are specially related to the mesencephalon. These are the cushion-like pulvinar, which forms the inner and hinder part of the thalamus, and the corpus geiiiculatum externum, an ill-defined oval swelling on the outer and ixnder aspect of the posterior end of the thalamus. The crura cerebri can to some extent be seen on the base of the brain, where they bound the posterior part of the interpeduncular space. Encircling the upper end of each cms cerebri, where it blunges into the cerebrum, is the optic tract (Fig. 325, p. 439). The mesencephalon is tunnelled from below upwards by a narrow passage, called the aqueduct of Sylvius, which connects the fourth ventricle with the third ventricle (Fig. 364, p. 492). This channel lies much nearer the dorsal than the ventral aspect of the mesencephalon. Corpora Quadrigemina.—This name is applied to four rounded eminences on tlie posterior aspect of the mesencephalon (Fig. 333, p. 447). The superior pair are larger and broader than the inferior pair, but they are not so well defined nor are they so prominent. A longitudinal and a transverse groove separate the quad- rigeminal bodies from each other. The longitudinal groove occupies the mesial plane and extends upwards to the posterior commissure of the brain. The upper end of this groove widens out into a shallow depression, in which the pineal body, a small conical structure which belongs to the diencephalon, rests. From the lower end of the same groove a short but well-defined and projecting band of white fibres, the frenulum veli, passes to the valve of Vieussens, which lies "immediately below the infei'ior pair of quadrigeminal bodies. The transverse groove curves round behind each of the superior pair of quadrigeminal bodies and separates them from the inferior pair. It is also continued in an upward and forward direction on the lateral aspect of the mesencephalon. The quadrigeminal bodies are not marked off laterally from the sides of the mesencephalon, but each has in connexion with it, on this aspect, a prominent strand of white matter, which is prolonged upwards and forwards under the projecting pulvinar and corpus geniculatum externum. These strands are called the brachia of the corpora quadrigemina, and they are separated from each other by a continuation on the side of the mesencephalon of the transverse groove, which intei"venes between the two pairs of bodies. The corpus geniculatum internum (corpus geniculatum mediale) is closely associated with the brachia. It is a small, sharply-defined oval eminence, which lies on the side of the upper part of the mesencephalon under shelter of the pulvinar of the optic thalamus. The inferior brachium (brachium quadrigeminum inferius), proceeding upwards from the lower quadrigeminal body, advances towards the corpus geniculatum internum and disappears from view under covei' of this prominence. Upon the