225 THE TIBIA. llio-tibial band Spine External TlIBEROSn-Y Biceps, Head Internal tuberosity Neck Extensor longiis digitoruni Peroneuslongus jeniitendinosus Peroneus brevis ■ Interosseous^ RIDGE Extensor proprius, hallucis Surb'aoe for EX-- TENSORS of ANKLE Surface for flexors of ANKLE 3UBCUTANE0US NTERNAL iurface ribialis posticus Between the two condylic surfaces the bone is raised in tlie centre to form the spine (eniiuentia intercondyloidea), the summit of which is grooved and capped on either side by tubercles which spring from and are formed by the upward extension of the neighbouring con- dylic areas. Of these tubercles the i7iner (tuberculum intercoudyloid- eum mediale) is the higher, and longer in an antero-posterior direc- tion, the outer (tuberculum inter- condyloideum laterale) being more pointed and not so elevated. In front and behind the spine the articular areas are separated by two irregular V-shaped surfaces, the intercondylic fossse. The anterior fossa (fossa intercondyloidea an- terior), the larger and wider, fur- nishes areas for the attachment of the semilunar cartilages on either side, and for the anterior crucial ligament immediately in front of the spine. The floor of this space is pierced by many nutrient fora- mina. The posterior intercondylic fossa (fossa intercondyloidea pos- terior) is concave from side to side, and slopes downwards and back- wards. The external semilunar cartilage is attached near its apex to a surface which rises oil to the back of the spine; the internal semilunar cartilage is lixed to a groove which runs along its inner edge, and the posterior crucial liga- ment derives an attachment from the smooth posterior rounded surface. The external tuberosity (con4ylus lateralis) is the smaller of the two. It overhangs the shaft to a greater extent than the external, though this is obscured in the living by its articulation with the fibula. The facet for the fibula, often small and indistinct, is placed postero-exter- nally on the under surface of its most projecting part. Antero-exter- nally the imprint caused by the attachment of the ilio-tibial band is often quite distinct. The circum- ference of the internal tuberosity (condylus medialis) is grooved pos- tero-internally for the insertion of the tendon of the semimem- branosus. In front of the tuberosities, and about an inch below the level of the condylic surfaces, there is an or the anterior tuberosity (tuberositas tibipe) 15 Peroneus tertius ■ Subcutaneous surface External malleolus Internal malleolus Pio. 168.—Right Tibia and Fibula as seen from THE Front. oval elevation called the tubercle of the tibia. The upper half of this is smooth