1107 THE VAS DEFERENS. Avliere it breaks uji into ])rauclie.s which enter the niediastiiiuiu testi.s, and are distributed along the septa and on tlie deep surface of the tunica albuginea. Tlie veins issuing from tlie posterior border of the testis form a dense plexus, called the plexus pampiniformis, which tlnally pours its blood through the spermatic vein, on the right side, into the inferior vena cava; on the left side, into the left renal vein. The nerves for the testis accompany the spermatic artery, and are derived from the aortic and renal plexuses. TJie arteries and nerves of the testis communicate with those on the lower part of tlie vas deferens, namely, with the artery of the vas and with twigs from the liypogastric plexus. The lymphatic vessels of the testis pass upwards in the spermatic cord, and end in the lumbar lymphatic glands. THE VAS DEFERENS. The vas deferens (ductus deferens) is the direct continuation of the canal of the epididymis. Beginning at the lower extremity of the epididymis, it ends, after a course of nearly 18 inches, by opening as the common ejaculatory duct into the prostatic or first part of the urethra. The duct in parts of its course is somewhat convoluted, and the actual distance traversed by it is not more than 12 inches. Placed in the first instance outside the abdominal cavity, the vas deferens ascends within tlie scrotum towards tlie lower part of the anterior abdominal wall, which it reaches not far from the middle line. During this part of its course the duct, together with the vessels and nerves of the testis, is surrounded l)y a number of loose coverings derived from certain layers of the abdominal wall, and the cord-like structure so formed is termed the spermatic cord. The vas deferens, together with the accompanying vessels and nerves, now passes through the abdominal wall in an oblique passage, to which the name inguinal canal is applied. Within the abdomen the vas lies immediately beneath the peritoneum, and soon crossing over the pelvic brim, it enters the pelvis, on the side wall of which it proceeds backwards towards the base of the bladder. Here, near the middle line, the vas deferens is joined by the duct of the corresponding vesicula seminalis, and the common ejaculatory duct, thus formed, having traversed the prostate, opens into the urethra. At first the vas deferens, like the canal from which it takes its origin, is very tortuous, but soon increasing in thickness, the duct becomes less twisted, and passes upwards along the inner side of the epididymis and behind the testis to enter the spermatic cord (Fig. 752). Its course is now almost vertically upwards towards the spine of the pubis, near which, crossing the inner part of Poupart's ligament, the vas enters the inguinal canal by the external abdominal ring. Of the structures composing the spermatic cord the vas is the most posterior, and it can be readily distinguished, even in the undissected subject, by its hard firm feel when it is taken between the finger and thumb. In the inguinal canal the vas is directed outwards, upwards, and a little backwards to the internal abdominal ring, wnere, at a point half-an-inch above Poupart's ligament, and midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, it enters-the abdomen. The distance between the point where the cord enters the inguinal canal to the point where it leaves it to enter the abdomen is about one and a half inches. While passing from the external to the internal abdominal ring the vas deferens, together with the other structures of the spermatic cord, rests upon the upper grooved surface of Poupart's ligament, and is placed behind the aponevtrosis of the external oblique and some of the lower fibres of the internal oblique muscle. From before backwards the vas rests, in the first instance, upon the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and further outwards upon the transversalis fascia. Above the cord are some arching fibres of the internal oblique muscle, which enter the conjoined " tendon. As the vas deferens leaves the inguinal canal by the internal abdominal ring, it turns round the deep epigastric artery on its outer and posterior aspect. Completely changing the direction of its course, the duct now runs for a short distance backwards, inwards, and upwards, beneath the peritoneum to a point one and a half to two inches from the spine of the pubis, where it crosses the ilio-pectineal line and enters the pelvis. In this part of its course the duct usually at first lies in front of the external iliac vessels, and then in the floor of a^ little triangular fossa between the vessels and tlie pelvic brim. On the side wall of the pelvis the vas is continued backwards, and a little downwards and inwards, in the direction of the ischial spine, and lies immediately beneath the peritoneum, through which it can