703 EXTERNAL AUDITOEY MEATUS. avemge length, measured from the bottom of the concha, is about one inch (24 mm,), but, if measured from the level of the tragus, nearly one inch and a half (35 mm.). Pars ossea of external aiulitory meatus \\- ( l us antihelicis inferior Recessus cpitympanicus Malleus Cochlea Cavum tyiupaiii Menibraua tym])aiii Internal carotid artery Cyniba conclia f rus liclicis Pars cartilaginea of external auditory meatus Cavum conchic Lower boundary of iiicisui-a intertragica Its anterior and inferior walls are longer than the posterior and superior. The tube consists of two parts, viz.: (ci) an external fibro-cartilaginous portion, the pars cartilaginea, having a length of about 8 mm.; and (h) an internal osseous por- tion, the pars ossea, measuring about 16 mm., and formed i)y a portion of the temporal bone. The entire meatus forms a somewhat S-shaped bend (Fig. 514) and may be divided into three portions, viz.: (1) pars externa, directed inwards, forwards, and slightly upwards for al)0ut 7 mm.; (2) pars media, inclining inwards and backwards for about 5 mm.; (3) pars interna, the longest of the three, passing forwards, inwards, and slightly downwards. On transverse section the canal is seen to be elliptical, its greatest diameter having an inclination downwards and backwards. Widest at its outer extremity, it becomes somewhat narrower at the inner end of the pars cartilaginea; once more expanding in the outer part of Fir,. 51-3.- - Vertical Transverse Section of Right Ear ; Anterior Half OF Section, viewed from behind (natural size). Uinbn Condyle ot Parotid "land the ossea, it IS Bony part of Eustachian tube Internal carotid arteiy Menibrana tympani First turn of cochlea Ca\'um tympani Mastoid air-cells Helix Fio. 514.- Upfer Half of pars again constricted near the inner end of the latter, where its nar- rowest part, or isthmus, is found at a distance of about 19 mm. from the bottom of the concha. The inner extremity of the meatus is nearly circular and is closed by the membrana tympani. The lumen of the pars cartilaginea is in- fluenced by the move- ments of the lower jaw, being -Horizontal Section through Right Ear ; Section, seen from below (natural size). increased when it is depressed. This can be easily verified by inserting a finger into the meatus, and then alternately opening and shutting the mouth. The condyle of the jaw lies in front of the pars ossea, while between the jaw and the pars cartilaginea there intervenes a portion of the parotid gland. Below the meatus is the retro-mandibular part of the parotid gland. Behind the pars ossea, and separated from it by a thin plate of bone, are the mastoid air-cells. Structure of the Meatus.—The cartilage of the meatus, directly continuous with that of the pinna, is folded on itself to form a groove, opening upwards and backwards, the margins of which are connected by fibrous tissue. The inner end of the cartilage is firmly fixed to the outer margin of the bony meatus, whilst its outer extremity is continuous with the cartilage of the tragus {vide p. 701). A couple of fissures, the fissures of Santorini, exist in the anterior portion of the cartilage of the