THE PLACENTA. 53 at an early period penetrated by an outgrowth of the subjacent mesoderm carrying branches of the allantoic vessels, and so it becomes vascular. For some tune all the villi, placental and non-placental, grow and absorb nutriment from the maternal tissues, probably utihsing as food the tissues which they destroy and replace; but when the decidua capsularis is thinned by the expansion of the growing ovum, the villi of the non-placental region which have penetrated it are no longer able to obtain nutrient matter, and they consequently atrophy and disappear. The placental villi, on the contrary, continue to increase; they grow in size and become more complex, and, anastomosing together, enclose the dilated maternal blood-vessels. The walls of the Decidua basalis Unclianged layer Stvatum spongiosun Maternal blood-sinus Maternal vessel Placental villus Allantoic stalk Coeloni Fcetal villus' Decidua vera' Ectoderm Somatic mesoderm splanchnic mesoderm Entoderm Decidua vera latter disappear, and secondary branches growing from the foetal villi project into the enclosed spaces and float in mater- nal blood. When the formation of the placenta is completed, its foetal part consists of villi, each of which possesses an ex- ternal covering of two layers of ecto- dermal cells and a vascular meso- dermal core; the villus projects into the interior of a large blood space, which is sur- rounded, more or less completely, by foetal ectoderm, and it is bathed by maternal blood from which it obtains the materials necessary for the nutrition and growth of the embryo, and into which it transmits effete excretory matter from the embryo. The Maternal Part of the Placenta and the Changes in the Decidua.^— The occurrence of further changes in the decidua, after the developing ovum enters the uterus, is dependent upon the retention of the ovum in the uterine cavity. These changes, therefore, only occur in what may be appropriately termed the decidua of pregnancy. They are intimately associated with and essential to the development of the maternal part of the placenta, and a more detailed and complete account of the decidua and of the modifications of its different parts is therefore necessary. The decidua is formed by the mucous membrane of the uterus, a hollow, thick- walled, muscular organ, situated in the cavity of the pelvis. The mucous membrane contains mimerous tubiilar glands eml^edded in an interglandular tissue formed of round and iri'egular cells. The uterine glands are lined by cubical or columnar epithelium, and they open in the cavity of the uterus on a surface which is also covered by columnar cells. The whole of the mucous membrane is plentifully supplied with blood-vessels which pass into it from the surrounding muscular walls, and it is transformed into the decidua by proliferation and hypertrophy of all its parts. The interglandular tissue increases in amount and its blood-vessels dilate, especially near the surface of the membrane; but the most striking of the early changes occur in the glands—they become longer, more tortuous, their apertures enlarge and assume a funnel-like appearance, and they dilate a short distance from J'lG. 41.—Diagram, showing the fcetal ectoderm surrounding the maternal blood sinuses, the commencement of secondary foetal villi which project into the sinitses, and the disappearance of the superficial portions of the glands.