224 OSTEOLOGY. attacliment of the vastus internus being more extensive than that of the vastus externus. The anterior surface of the bone, shghtly convex in both diameters, has a fibrous appearance, due to its longitudinal striation, and is pierced here and there by the openings of vascular canals. The iwderior or femoral articular surface is divided into two unequal parts (of which the external is the wider) by a vertical elevation which glides in the furrow of the trochlear surface of the femur, and in extreme flexion passes to occupy the intercondylic notch. The outer of the two femoral surfaces is slightly concave in both its diameters; the inner, though slightly concave from above downwards, is usually plane, or somewhat convex trans- versely. Occasionally, in the macerated bone, indications of a third vertical area are to be noted along the inner edge of the internal aspect. This defines the part of the articular surface wliich rests on the border of the internal condyle in extreme flexion. Below the femoral articular axea the deep surface of the apex is rough and irregular; the greater part of this is covered by synovial membrane, the liga- mentum ])atell£e being attached to its summit and margins, reaching some little distance round the borders on to the anterior aspect of this part of the bone. Architecture.—Tlie bom^ consist.s of a tliick dense layer einteriorly, which tliins towards the edges on either side and below ; above, it corresponds to the area of insertion of the (jiiadrieeps. The femoral articular surface is composed of a layer of coiinmct bone, thickest in correspondence with the vertical elevation. Sandwiched between these two layers is a varying thickness of spongy tissue of fairly close grain, the striation of which on cross section runs in parallel lines from l)ack to front; on vertical section the tissue appears to be arranged in lines jiassing radially from the deep surface of the femoral area to the more extensive anterior dense plate. Variations.—Cases of congenital absence of the patella have been recorded. Ossification.—The patella is laid down in cartilage about the third mouth of foetal life. At birth it is cartilaginous, and the tendon of the quadriceps is continuous with the ligameutum patellae over its anterior surface, and can easily be dissected off. About the third year an ossific centre appears in it and spreads more particularly over its deeper surface. Ossification is usually completed by the age of puberty. The Tibia. Sui'liice for attachment of aiilerior extremity of internal semilunar cartila^'p Anterior crucia*l ligament, Spine TrBERCLE The tibia is the inner bone of the leg. It is much stouter and stronger than its neighl)our the fibula, with which it is united above and below. By its superior expanded extremity it supports the condyles of the femur, while inferiorly it shares in the formation of the ankle-joint, articulating with the upper surface and inner side of the astragalus. The superior extremity comprises the inner and outer tuberosities, the spine, and the tubercle. Each tuberosity is provided on its upper aspect with an articular surface (facies articularis superior), which supports the corresponding femoral condyle, as well as the interposed semilunar cartilage. Of these two condylic surfaces,- the inner is the larger; of oval shape, its long axis is placed antero-pos- teriorly. Slightly concave from before backwards and from side to side, its cir- cumference rises in the form of a sharp and well-defined edge. The outer condylic surface is siualler and rounder. Slightly concave from side to side, and gently con- vex from l)efore backwards, its circumference is well defined in front, but is rounded off l)ehiud, thus markedly increasing the convexity of its posterior part. Internal ■J'lTBEROSlTV Synovial curvei .SURFACE Surface for attach, of jjost. extrem. of internal semilunar cartilage Popliteal NOTCH I'ost. crucial ligament .Surf, for attachment ^of ant. extremity of "xternal semilunar cart. External tubekosity face for attach, of post, extremity of external semilunar cartilage Fic. 167.—Upprr Surfack of Superior Extremitv of Rioht Tibia.