1063 THE LIVEE. triangle it comes into direct relation with the anterior wall of the aljdonien, for a distance usually of two or three inches below tlie xiplii-sternal articulation. It has a complete peritoneal covering, and gives attachment as far down as tlie umbilical notch, at the inferior Iwrder, to tlie falciform ligament, whicli connects it to the anterior abdominal wall. Tlie anterior passes gradually into tlie upper and right areas, but it is distinctly separated from tile visceral surface by the sharp inferior border of the organ. The umbilical notch is often continued upwai'ds for some distance on this surface as a slit-like fissure. The right area of the parietal surface is convex and extensive, and lies in contact witli the diaphragm, which separates it from the inner surface of the lower ribs, and also from tlie lower margin of the lung and pleura above. Thougli sharply marked off by the inferior border from the visceral surface, it passes without distinct limits into the other areas of the parietal surface. It is completely covered l)y peritoneum. Visceral or Inferior Surface.—This surface of the liver is an irregular, obliquely sloping surface (Fig. 716), which looks downwards, backwards, and to the left, and rests upon the stomach, intestines, and right kidney—all of which leave impressions upon it. The division into right and left loljes is indicated on this surface by the umbilical fissure, which passes from the uniliilical notch at the anterior border, back to the portal fissure. The visceral surface of the left Johe is directed downwards and liackwards, and rests on the upper surface of the stomach, in front of the cardia; also on the lesser curvature with its attached lesser omentum. The part which rests upon the upper surface of the stomach is rendered concave l)y the pressure of that organ (Fig. 716), and is known as the gastric impression (impressio gastrica); whilst the portion to the right of this, being free from the pressure of the stomach, projects backwards (»ver the lesser curvature against the lesser omentum, and is known as the omental tuberosity (tuber omeutale). The visceral surface of the right lobe ma.y be divided into two portions by the line of the gall-bladder, which extends forward in its fossa to tlie lower sharp margin of ths liver (Fig. 716). (a) To the left of the line of the gall-bladder are found from liefore liackwards :— The quadrate lobe, portal fissure, and caudate lobe. (1) The Quadrate lobe (lobus quadratus) is placed at the anterior part of the under surface, between the gall- Ijladder and the umbilical fissure, extending to the inferior margin of the liver in front, and to the portal fissure liehind: it rests upon the pylorus or the beginning of the duodenum. (2) The portal or transverse fissure is a wide cleft through which the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct enter the liver, and to the margins of which are attached the two layers of the lesser omentum (Fig. 716). (3) The caudate lobe or process (processus caudatus) consists of a narrow ridge of liver substance which runs across behind the portal fissure, and connects the lower end of the Spigelian lobe with the rest of the right lolie. It foi'ms the upper liQundary of the foramen of Winslow, and is felt when the finger is introduced into that passage. It is often very smaU, and occasiona.Uy can scarcely lie distinguished. (b) The surface to the right of the gall-bladder, which is more extensive than that on its left, is entirely occupied by three impressions produced by the under- lying viscera—namely: (1) The colic impression (impressio colica) lies in front and to the right of the gall-l)ladder. It rests upon the hepatic flexure and the beginning of the transverse colon. (2) Behind this is the renal impression (im- pressio renalis), larger than the preceding, which corresponds in size and form to the upper half or two-thirds of the right kidney, against the anterior or visceral surface of which it lies. It is placed behind the colic impression just as the kidney itself is placed behind the colon. (3) To the inner side of the renal impression, and near the neck of the gaU-liladder, is placed the narrow duodenal impression (im- pressio duodenalis) which lies in contact with the duodenum (the second part, down to the point at which it is crossed by the colon). The quadrate lobe is of an oblong shape, the antero-])osterior diameter being the greatest. Its surface is generally concave, and is related to the pylorus and the adjacent parts of the stomach and duodenum, when the former is distended. When the stomach is empty, however, the pylorus usually lies beneath the right portion of the left lobe, and the fir.st part f)f the duodenum lies beneath the (juadrate lolie, the transverse colon also coming in contact witli it aiiteriorlv The upper (mkI ii( the n-ual iinpri'ssion is fre(^uen11y inicovereil liv pcrit<iiicinii f'Fig. 7U)\ that