THE VEINS OF THE UPPEE EXTEEMITY. 843 and it gives off efferent vessels which pass through the intervertebral foramina to terminate, according to the region in wliich they are placed, in the vertebral, intercostal, lumbar, or lateral sacral veins. Superioi'ly the anterior longitudinal spinal veins give off large offsets, above the arch of the atlas, which form the commencement of the vertebral veins ; through the foramen magnum they communicate with the basilar and with the occipital sinuses. The posterior longitudinal spinal veins are placed, one on each side, between the dura mater anteriorly and the laminae and ligamenta subflava posteriorly. They are plexiform vessels which extend along the whole length of the spinal canal. They receive tributaries fi"om the laminte, ligaments, and spinal membranes, and from a post-vertebral plexus of veins which lies between the laminaj of the vertebrae and the deep muscles of the back; they anastomose with each other by transverse channels which pass across the laminae, with the posterior spinal plexus by vessels which pierce the ligamenta subflava, and with the anterior longitudinal veins round the margins of the canal. Their efferent vessels unite with those of the anterior longitudinal veins, and terminate with them. By means of the longitudinal spinal veins and the anastomoses between them, a venous ring is formed within the spinal canal opposite each vertebra. Commencing in front, opposite the body of the vertebra, where it receives the vena basis vertebra, it passes outwards to the anterior longitudinal spinal vein, turns backwards along the inner side of the pedicle and the inner surface of the lamina to the posterior longitudinal vein, and is completed by the anastomosis between the posterior longitudinal veins. This ring- communicates through the ligamenta subflava with the posterior spinal plexus, and through the intervertebral foramina with the vertebral, with the dorsal tributaries of the intercostal or lumbar veins, or with the lateral sacral veins, according to the region in which it lies. Superiorly the posterior longitudinal spinal veins communicate with the occipital sinuses, and as these also communicate with the anterior spinal veins, and the latter with the basilar sinus, a venous ring is completed round the foramen magnum. Veins of the Spinal Cord.—The veins of the spinal cord, issue from the substance of the cord, and terminate in a plexus in the pia mater. In this plexus there are six longitudinal channels — one antero-median, along the anterior fissure, two antero-lateral, immediately behind the anterior nerve roots, two postero-lateral, inunediately behind the posterior nerve roots, and one postero- median, over the postero-septum. Eadicular efferent vessels issue from the plexus, and pass along the nerve roots to communicate with the efferent vessels from the anterior and posterior longitudinal spinal veins, and to terminate in them. The veins of the spinal cord .vary very much in size, but they are largest on the lower and on the posterior portions of the cord. The postero-median and antero-median veins are continued above into the corresponding veins of the medulla oljlongata. The antero-lateral and postero-lateral veins pour their blood partly into the median veins and partly into the radicular veins; indeed, the greater part of the blood from the spinal cord is returned by the latter veins. THE VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The veins of each upper extremity are divisible into two sets—viz. superficial and deep. Both sets open eventually into a common terminal trunk which is known as the axillary vein. This vein is therefore the chief efferent stem of the upper extremity. It is continued as the subclavian vein to the innominate vein, and its blood, together with that of the corresponding side of the head and neck, reaches the superior vena cava. The Deep Veins of the Upper Extremity. The deep veins, with the exception of the axillary vein, are arranged in pairs which accompany the different arteries and are similarly named. So far as these veins (vente comites) are concerned it will be sufficient to state that they are pro- vided with several valves, that they are situated one on either side of the artery with which they are associated, and that they are usually united together by