TYMPANIC OSSICLES. 713 fossa inciidis. Some observers describe this as a diarthrodial joint. A superior ligament, the ligamentum incudis superius, is sometimes present, but consists mainly of a fold of mucous membrane. The vestibular surface, and also the circumference of the foot of the stapes, are covered by hyaline cartilage, and a similar layer lines the opening of the fenestra ovalis; that encircling the base of the stapes is joined to that which lines the fenestra by a dense ring of elastic fibres, named the ligamentum annulare baseos stapedis. The posterior fibres of this annular ligament are thicker and shorter than the anterior, and thus the anterior end of the foot- plate is free to make greater excursions, during the movements of the bone, than the posterior. Development of the Tympanic Ossicles.—The malleus and incus are developed from the upper end of Meckel's cartilage (see p. 711). The staj)es arises from the meso- blast in the region of the fenestra ovalis and is developed around a small artery, the stapedial artery, which becomes atrophied in man, but persists in many mammals. Muscles of the Tympanic Cavity.—These are two in number, viz. m. tensor tympaui and m. stapedius. The m. tensor tympani is the larger, and takes origin from the roof of the cartila- ginous part of the Eustachian tube and from the adjacent part of the great wing of the sphenoid. It also receives some fibres from the bony canal in which it lies, and ends in a tendon which bends outwards, nearly at a right angle to the belly of the muscle, round the pulley-like, posterior extremity of the processus cochleariformis. Passing across the cavity of the tympanum, this tendon is inserted into the inner edge and anterior surface of the manubrium mallei, near its upper end. When the muscle contracts it draws inwards the handle of the malleus, and so renders tense the membrana tympani; it probably also slightly rotates the malleus around its long axis. It receives its nerve from the motor division of the fifth cranial nerve through the otic ganglion. The m. stapedius arises within the pyramid, and from the canal which prolongs the hollow of the pyramid downwards. Its tendon emerges from the apex of the pyramid and is inserted into the posterior surface of the neck of the stapes. On contraction it draws back the head of the stapes, and so tilts the anterior end of the footplate outwards towards the tympanic cavity and the posterior end inwards towards the labyrinth, thus rendermg tense the ligamentum annulare—the outward movement of the anterior end of the footplate being greater than the inward movement of its posterior end. The muscle is supplied by the facial nerve. Movements of the Tympanic Ossicles.—Tlie manubrium mallei follows all the movements of the membrana tympani, while the malleus and incus move together around an axis extending forwards througli the short process of the incus and the anterior ligament of the malleus. When the membrana tympani moves inwards it carries with it the handle of the malleus, and the incus, moving inwards at the same time, forces the foot of the stapes towards the labyrinth. This inward movement is communicated to the fluid (perilymph) in the labyrinth and causes an outward bulging of the secondary tympanic membrane, closing the fenestra rotunda. These movements are reversed when the membrana tympani is relaxed, unless the outward movement of the membrane be excessive. In such a condition the incus does not follow the full outward movement of the malleus, but merely glides on this bone at the incudo - malleolar joint, and thus the forcible dragging of the foot of the stapes out of the fenestra ovalis is prevented. The cog-tooth arrangement, already described, on the head of the malleus and body of the incus, causes the iucudo-malleolar joint to become locked during tlie inward movements of the handle of the malleus, the joint becoming unlocked during its outward movements. Mucous Lining of the Tympanic Cavity (tunica mucosa tympanica).—This is continuous, through the Eustachian tube, with that of the naso-pharynx; it also extends backwards and lines the mastoid antrum and air-cells. Thin, transparent and closely united with the subjacent periosteum, it covers the inner aspect of the membrana tympani and is reflected over the ossicles and their ligaments. It also supplies sheaths for the tendons of the tensor tympani and stapedius muscles, and forms the following mucous folds, viz.: (a) one from the roof of the epitympanic recess to the head of the malleus and body of the incus; (6) one enveloping the chorda tympani nerve and long process of the incus; (c) two extending from the