SURFACE AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. By Harold J. Stiles. THE HEAD AND NECK. THE CRANIUM. Scalp.—The tirst aud third layers of the scalp, namely, the skin and the occipito-frontalis muscle, are firmly united by fibrous processes which pass from the one to the other through the second or dense subcutaneous fatty layer. Inter- vening between these three layers and the pericranium is a loose cellular layer which supports the small vessels passing between the scalp proper and pericranium. The thin pericranium, although regarded anatomically as periosteum, possesses very limited bone-forming properties; over the vertex it is readily separated from the skull-cap, except along the lines of the sutures, where it gives off intersutural processes to join the endosteal layer of the dura. The free blood-supply of the scalp is for the purpose of nourishing its abundant hair follicles and glands. The main vessels lie in the dense subcutaneous tissue, and are superficial, therefore, to the occipito-frontalis. The arteries supplying the frontal region are derived from the internal carotid, while those for the remainder of the scalp spring from the external carotid. These two sets of vessels anasto- mose freely with one another, and freely also across the mesial plane; hence the failure of ligature of the external carotid to cure cirsoid aneurysm of the temporal artery. Wounds of the scalp l.>leecl freely, aud tlie vessels are difficult to ligature on account of the adhesion ol' their •walls within the septa of the dense subcutaneous tissue. In extensive flajj wounds and in cliifuse suppuration beneath the occipito-frontalis there is little danger of sloughing of the scalp. Abscesses and hsemorrhages superficial to tlie occipito-frontalis are usually limited on account of the density of the sul)Cutaneous tissue. Hrenrorrhage Ijeneath the occipito-frontalis is seldom extensive on account of the small size of the vessels, but suppuration in this situation may rapidly undermine the whole muscle ; incisions to evacuate the pus should he made early, and parallel to the main vessels of the scalp. Extravasation of blood beneath the pericranium leads to a hematoma which is limited by the sutures. The veins of the scalp communicate with the intra-cranial venous sinuses— (1) directly through their anastomoses with the large emissary veins, namely, the parietal, which opens into the superior longitudinal sinus, and the mastoid and posterior condyloid, which open into the lateral sinus; (2) through the anastomoses of the frontal and supra-orbital veins with the ophthalmic vein, which opens into the cavernous sinus; (3) through the veins of the diploe, which connect the veins of the scalp and the pericranium on the one hand with those of the dura mater and the venous sinuses on the other; (4) through small veins which pass from the pericranium through the bones and the intersutural memliranes to the dura. It is along these various channels that pyogenic infection may extend, from the scalp and pericranium, through the l:)one to the dura mater and venous sintises, and from the latter to the cerebral veins, the pia-arachnoid, and the substance of the brain. More rarely the infection spreads from the cranial cavity along the emissary veins to the scalp.