1047 THE PERITONEUM. on horizontal and vertical sections of the abdomen—a favourite method of studying the peritoneum. As already explained, the peritoneum is the serous membrane which, on the one hand, lines the abdominal cavity, and on the other forms a more or less complete covering for the contained viscera. The portion which lines the I walls of the cavity is known as the parietal peritoneum (peritoneum parietale), that which clothes the viscera as the visceral peritoneum (peritoneum viscerale). The meml)rane is connected to both walls and viscera by a layer of areolar tissue— the extra or subperitoneal connective tissue—which is considerable in amount in certain regions, whilst it is reduced to a mere trace in others, particularly on the viscera. (The subperitoneal tissue is described at p. 995.) The peritoneum is described as consisting of two sacs—a greater and a lesser. The former lines the greater portion of the abdominal cavity, and invests most of the abdominal viscera ; the latter lies chiefly behind the stomach, and is much more restricted in its distribution. It must be clearly understood that these two sacs are not two separate cavities, but simply subdivisions of one great cavity; for the lesser is merely a recess of the greater sac, from which it has become partly shut off by changes that take place in the position of the adjacent viscera during their development. If the great sac be compared to a bag, the lesser sac might be repre- sented as a pocket lying behind, and opening into it by a narrow orifice—the foramen of Wiuvslow—on its posterior wall. Speaking generally, the great sac lines the walls of the abdominal cavity, and it also covers the various organs which receive a peritoneal investment, except the back of the stomach, the Spigelian and caudate lobes of the liver, the left suprarenal capsule, the upper surface of the pancreas, and also parts of the spleen, left kidney, and transverse colon ; all of which, as well as the parietes behind the Spigelian lobe, are clothed by the small sac. The great sac of the peritoneum is placed between the parietes in front and the abdominal viscera behind. It is composed of two layers, an anterior which lines the anterior abdominal wall, and a posterior which covers the viscera; but this posterior layer is carried forwards by the viscera, so that the two layers come in contact, and the cavity of the sac is practically obliterated. The anterior layer of the great sac covers the anterior abdominal wall com- pletely, from the diaphragm above to the pelvis below. Over the greater part of its extent the connection of the peritoneum to the wall is by a small amount of fatty extra-peritoneal connective tissue; but below, near the pubic region, the fat is more abundant, and the connection between the two becomes much looser. This is to allow of the peeling off of the peritoneum, which takes place here during distension of the bladder. As the bladder enlarges it passes up along the anterior abdominal wall, off which it strips the peritoneum, so that, in the fuUy distended condition, it may be in contact with this wall, without the interposition of peri- toneum, for a distance of two inches (5'0 cm., or occasionally more) above the pubes (Fig. 738). Running up in this fatty tissue are found five cord-like structures, one placed in the middle line, and two at each side. These are (a) tire urachus^—-the remains of the allantois of the foetus—which in the adult is a slender fibrous band connected to the umbilicus above, and to the apex of the bladder below, where it usually becomes much stouter. External to the urachus, and some distance from it (Fig. 703), will be found, in the same fatty tissue, (6) two stouter fibrous cords, the obliterated hypogastric arteries (arterise umbihcales). Traced upwards, these also become more slender, and approach the urachus, along with whicli they are con- nected to the umbilicus. Below, they grow thicker, and can be foUowed backwards along the side waU of the pelvis to the internal iliac arteries, which they join, (f) Further out still, the deep epigastric arteries are seen running upwards and inwards from the external iliac trunk on each side. When the anterior abdominal waU is examined from l:>ehind, it will be seen that these five structures which lie on the front of the peritoneum carry that membrane inwards towards the abdominal cavity in the form of five more or less