389 THE MUSCLES OF THE PHAEYNX. Eustachian tube Levator palati MUSCLE (cut) Tensor palati Superior constrictor Buccinator Pterygo-inandi- bulai' ligament Stylo- pharvngeus Middle constrictor the middle line. The highest fibres are attached to the pharyngeal spine of the occipital bone, and the lowest fibres are overlapped by the middle constrictor. A crescentic interval occurs above the muscle, below the base of the skull, in which the Eustachian tube and the levator . , . I" ibrous aponeurosis of tlie pharynx and tensor palati muscles appear. The lower border of the muscle is separated from the middle constrictor by the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. It separates the internal carotid artery from the cavity of the pharynx and tonsil. The middle constrictor muscle arises from the stylo-hyoid ligament and both cornua of the hyoid bone. From its origin the muscular fibres radiate backwards, to be inserted into the median raphe on the posterior aspect of the pharynx. The upper fibres overlap the lower part of the superior constrictor ; the lower fibres are concealed from view by the in- ferior constrictor muscle. In the interval between the middle and in- ferior constrictors are found the internal laryngeal artery and nerve. The inferior constrictor muscle arises from the oblique line of the thyroid cartilage, and from the side of the cricoid cartilage. Its fibres radiate backwards, to be inserted into the median raphe on the back of the pharynx, the upper fibres overlapping the lower part of the middle con- stricter, the lower fibres blending with the muscular fibres of the oesophagus. Below the lower border of the muscle the inferior laryngeal artery and nerve enter into relation with the larynx. Inferior constrictor -Posterior View of the Pharynx and Constrictor Muscles. The deeper longitudinal stratum of muscles in the pharyngeal wall is com- posed of the insertions of the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus. The stylo-pharyngeus muscle arises from the root of the styloid process on its inner side, and passing downwards between the carotid arteries, it enters the wall of the pharynx in the interval between the superior and middle constrictor muscles. Spreading out beneath the middle constrictor muscle, it is inserted into the superior and posterior borders of the thyroid cartilage and into the wall of the pharynx itself, becoming continixous posteriorly with the palato-pharyngeus. In the neck the glosso-pharyngeal nerve crosses it. The palato-pharyngeus occupies the soft palate and the pharyngeal wall. In the substance of the soft palate it consists of two layers, a postero-superior layer, thin, and continuous across the middle line with the corresponding layer on the opposite side, and an antero-inferior layer, which is thicker, and is attached to the posterior border of the hard palate. The levator palati and azygos uvulte muscles are enclosed between the two layers, which unite at the posterior edge of the palate, receiving at the same time additional fibres arising from the Eustachian tube (salpingo-pharyngeus). The muscle descends to the pharynx in the posterior pillar of the fauces. Its fibres spread out in the form of a thin sheet in the wall of the pharynx, in continuity anteriorly with the stylo-pharyngeus, and are inserted into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage, and behind that into the aponeurosis of the pharynx, reaching down as far as the lower border of the inferior