OSTEOLOGY. 144 THE SKULL AS A WHOLE. The skull as a whole may be studied as seen from the front (norma frontalis), from the side (norma lateralis), from the back (norma occipitalis), from above (norma verticalis), and from below (norma basalis). NoKMA Frontalis. In front, the smooth convexity of the frontal bone limits this region above, whilst inferiorly, when the lower jaw is disarticulated, the teeth of the upper jaw form its lower boundary. The large openings of the orbits are seen on either side; whilst placed mesially and at a somewhat lower level, is the anterior nasal aperture (apertura pyriforme), leading into the nasal fossae. The frontal region, convex from above downwards and from side to side, is limited externally by two ridges, which are the anterior extremities of the temporal lines. Superiorly the fulness of the bone blends with the convexity of the vertex. Inferiorly the frontal bone forms on either side the arched superior border of the orbit (margo supraorbitalis). The space between these borders, corresponds to the root of the nose, and here are seen the sutures which unite the frontal with the nasal bones in the middle line, and with the nasal process of the superior maxilla on either side, called the naso-frontal and fronto-maxillary sutures respectively. The orbital arch is thin and sharp externally, but becomes thick and more rounded towards its inner side, where it forms the internal angular process and unites with the frontal process of the superior maxilla and the lachrymal bone on the inner wall of the orbit. This arched border is interrupted towards its inner side by a notch (incisura supraorbitalis), sometimes converted into a foramen for the transmission of the supraorbital nerve and artery. In the middle line, just above the naso-frontal suture, there is often the remains of a median suture (sutura frontalis), which mai'ks the fusion of the two halves from which the bone is primarily ossified. Here also a prominence, of variable extent—the glabella—is met with ; from this there passes out on either side above and over the orbital margin a projection called the superciliary ridge (arcus superciliaris). The orbital fossae, of more or less conical form, display a tendency to assume the shape of four-sided pyramids by the flattening of the superior, inferior, and lateral walls. The base, which is directed forwards and a little outwards, corresponds to the orbital aperture. The shape of this is liable to individual and racial variations, being nearly circular in the Mongoloid type, whilst it displays a more or less quadrangular form in Australoid skulls. The upper margin, as has been already stated, is formed by the frontal bone between the internal and external angular processes. The outer, and about half the lower, margin are formed by the sharp curved edge between the facial and orbital surfaces of the malar bone. The internal border and the remainder of the lower margin are determined by the outer surface of the frontal process of the superior maxilla, and the sharp edge separating the facial from the orbital surface of the same bone. Three sutures interrupt the continuity of the orbital margin—the fronto-malar (sutura zygomatico- frontalis) externally, the fronto-maxillary (sutura fronto-maxillaris) internally, both lying about the same level, and the malo-maxillary (sutura zygomatico-maxillaris) inferiorly. The apex of the space is directed backwards and inwards, so that the inner walls of the two orbits lie nearly parallel to each other, whilst the outer walls are so disposed as to form nearly a right angle with each other. The depth of the orbit measures, on an average, about two inches (5 cm.). At the apex there are two openings ; the larger, known as the sphenoidal fissure (fissura orbitalis superior), passes from the apex of the space outwards and a little upwards for the distance of three-quarters of an inch or so, between the roof and outer wall of the orbit. The inner third of this fissure is broad and of circular form. Externally it is consider- ably reduced in width. Through this the third, fourth, ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth nerves enter the orbit, whilst the ophthalmic veins pass backwards through it. Above and internal to the inner end of the sphenoidal