845 THE SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE UPPEE EXTPtEMITY. The Superficial Veins of the Upper Extremity. Cephalic vein- Basilic veiii- The superficial veins of the upper extremity coiuiiieuce in the superficial fascia of the palm and dorsum of the hand and of the fingers. The superficial veins of the palmar aspects of the fingers terminate for the most part in dorsal digital veins, which run along the dorso-lateral borders of the digits; some, however, pass upwards into the palm and join the superficial palmar veins, which, in comparison with the super- ficial dorsal veins, are relatively few and small. The superficial veins of the palm anastomose together, forming a more or less polygonal plexus from which some efferent vessels pass laterally round the borders of the palm to the dorsal plexus of the hand, whilst others ascend towards the wrist, where they end either in the median or the anterior ulnar superficial veins of the forearm. The superficial veins on the dorsal aspect of each digit form two longitudinal vessels, the dorsal digital veins (vv. digitales dorsales propria"), which ascend along the dorso-lateral borders of the digit. They receive tributaries from the palmar aspect of the digit, from the pulp of the tip, from the subungual tissues, and from the super- ficial tissues of the dorsum. The dorsal digital veins, which run along the adjacent borders of the second, third, and fourth interdigital clefts, unite, at the apices of the clefts, to form three dorsal interosseous or interdigital veins (vv. metacarpte dor- sales), which terminate on the dorsum of the hand in a dorsal venous arch or dorsal venous plexus; the radial or outer vein of the index-finger ends in the same arch. The dorsal venous arch of the hand receives not only the dorsal interosseous or interdigital veins, and the radial digital vein of the index-finger, but also numerous tril)utaries from the superficial tissues of the dorsum of the hand, which anastomose frequently together and form a plexiform network. The arch lies opposite the lower parts of the shafts of the four inner meta- carpal bones, and terminates at its radial end in the superficial radial vein, and at its ulnar end in the posterior or dorsal ulnar vein; the dorsal digital veins of the thumb open into the superficial radial vein, and the innermost or ulnar digital vein of the little finger ends in the posterior superficial ulnar vein. Superficial Veins of the Forearm.— There are four main superficial venous trunks in the forearm—viz. the median, the radial, and the anterior and posterior ulnar veins. Median cephalic vein- Median basilic vein- Median vein- Deep median vein- Posterior ulnar vs Radial veins| Anterior ulnar vein- Palmar i^lexus - K Fig. 585.—SuPEKFiciAL Veins on the Flexor Aspect of the Uppek Extremity.