UROGENITAL SYSTEM. 1130 The peritoneum covering the fundus of the xiterus is continued down over the anterior surface as far as the junction of the body and cervix, where it leaves the uterus to be reflected on to the bladder, forming the utero-vesical fold, or " anterior ligament of the uterus." The peritoneal recess between the l)ladder and the utenis is called the utero-vesical pouch (excavatio vesico-uterina). Below the level of tlie floor of this pouch the anterior aspect of the cervix is connected hj loose tissiie with the posterior or l)asal part of the bladder. Posteriorly the peritoneum covers the whole of the uterus, except the small portion of the cervix which projects into the upper part of the vagina. The peritoneum covering the posterior surface of the uterus is continued to such a depth that it invests a small portion of the upper part of the posterior wall of the vagina before it is reflected on to the rectum, forming the recto-vaginal fold (Fig. 775). The deep pouch l)etween the uterus and vagina in front and the rectum l)ehind is called the pouch of Douglas (excavatio recto-uterina), and its entrance is bounded on each side l)y a crescentic peritoneal fold which passes from the posterior surface of the cervix uteri to the posterior wall of the pelvis, where it ends near the side of the rectum. These crescentic folds are called the recto-uterine folds (plicse recto-uterince), or folds of Douglas, and each con- tains l)etween its layers a consideral)le amount of flbrous and smooth muscular tissue. Some of these flbres, wliich are continuous with the uterine wall, pass backwards to reach the rectum and constitute the recto-uterine muscle (musculus recto-uterinus); others, gaining an attachment to the front (»f the sacrum, form the utero-sacral ligament. In many cases the recto-uterine folds become continuous with one another across the middle line behind the cervix uteri. The peritoneum of the anterior and posterior surfaces, leaving the uterus along each lateral border to reach the side wall of the pelvis, forms the Itroad ligament of the uterus. The broad ligament (ligamentum latum uteri) is a wide peritoneal fold which passes from the lateral border of the uterus to the pelvic wall, and contains between its layers several important structures (Fig. 774). The plane of the inner part of the ligament is determined l)y tlie position of the uterus. When the uterus is normally placed the ligamejit has an anterior surface which lo<iks downwards as well as forwards, and a posterior one which looks upwards and backwards. Near its attachment to the pelvis the ligament is placed more vertically. The free edge of the ligament contains the Fallopian tube (Fig. 774), and follows the course pursued by that structure. Thus, in the undisturbed condition of parts, it at first passes horizontally outwards towards the lower end of the ovary, where it ascends to arch over the upper pole of the ovary on its inner side. Owing to the course pursued by the Fallopian tube round the ovary, the broad ligament forms a kind of curtain over the gland, and the ovary comes to lie in a little pocket formed by the broad ligament, to which the name of bursa ovarii is applied (Fig. 773). This bursa ovarii is not to l)e confused with the fossa ovarica, or depression in the side wall of the pelvis, against which the ovary is usually placed, The positions of the various structures in connexion with the Inroad ligament are most easily demonstrated when the ligament is spread out as flat as possible. The ovary is connected with the posterior layer of the broad ligament by a very short mesentery, called the mesovarium, which, passing to the hilus, encloses the ovarian vessels and nerves. The part of the broad ligament which slings the Fallo])ian tube is called the mesosalpinx. When the ligament is spread out, the mesosalpinx has the form of a narrow triangle, the apex of which is at the lateral angle of the uterus, while the upper side is formed by the Fallopian tube, and the lower one hy the ligament of the ovary and the ovary itself. The narrow base of the triangle is directed outwards. Between the layers of this part of the broad ligament are situated the parovarium (epoophoron) and the paroophoron (Fig. 774). The part of the broad ligament l)elow the level of the mesosalpinx is termed mesometrium, and contains, especially in its lower part, a consideral^le amount of fatty connective tissue (parametrium) and unstriped muscle fibres. The ligament of the ovary (ligamentum ovarii proprium) jis a rounded fibrous cord, of al)out one to one and a half inches in length, which is attached by its outer end to the lower pole of the ovary, and by its inner one to the lateral angle of the uterus immediately below and l)('hind the entrance of the Fallopian tulie. This