UEOGENITAL SYSTEM. 1106 luiniber of slender tul)es which run a straight course. These latter are called tubuli recti, and open into the complicated canal network of the mediastinum, which has received tlie name rete testis. Microscopic sections show that the walls of the seminiferous tubules are composed of a firm basement membrane and of an epithelial lining, formed of several layers of cells. Certain cells of this epithelium are constantly undergoing transformation into spermatozoa, and the appearance of a tul)ule in section varies much, according to the greater or less activity of its epithelial cells. The secretion of the seminiferous tubules is carried through the tubuli recti into the rete testis, and leaves the latter, to reach the canal of the epididj-mis, through from fifteen to twenty minute tul)ules called vasa eflferentia (ductuli efferentes testis). These latter tubules pierce the tunica albuginea and enter the globus major, which is in direct contact with the upper end of the testis. Each vas efferens is at first straight, but soon becomes much convoluted, and forms a little conical mass called a conus vasculosus. Witliin the globiis major the littje twisted canals finally open into the single much convoluted tube which constitutes the Fig. 752. A. The right testis and epididymis, seen within the tunica vaginalis, which ha.s been opened np. B. The riglit testis and epididymis seen from behind, after complete removal of tlie parietal portion of the tunica vaginalis. C. Diagram to illustrate the .structure of tlie testis and epididymis. e.v. Coni vasculosi. r.v. Rete testis. I.v. Tunica vaginalis. (!. Epididymis. s. Septula testis. Cut edge of tunica vaginalis. .(j.m. Globus major. s.r. Spermatic cord. r.d. Vas deferens. ij.m'. Globus minor. s.t. Seminiferous tubule. v.e. Vas efferens. )i. Hydatids. t. Testis. v.r. Tubuli recti. chief bulk of the epididymis, and is called the canal of the epididymis (ductus epididymidis). This canal, which is not less than 19 or 20 feet in length, may be said to begin in the globus major, and to end, after an extraordinarily tortuous coiirse, at the globus minor by becoming the vas deferens (ductus deferens, Eig. 752). In most cases one or more slender convoluted diverticula from the canal of tlie epididymis may be found near its lower end. These receive the name of vasa aberrantia (ductuh aberrantes), and one of them which is very constantly present often measures a foot or more in length. Minute Structure.—The canal of the epididymis and the vasa efferentia are lined by a cibated epithelium, the cilia of which maintain a constant current towards the vas deferens. The canal of the epididymis possesses a muscular coat composed of an inner sti'atinn of transversely and an outer stratum of longitudinally directed fibres. The wall, at first tlun, becomes much thicker as the canal approaches the vas deferens. Vessels and Nerves of the Testis.—The testis is supplied by the spermatic artery, a branch of the aorta. Tlii.s slender vessel, after a long course, reaches the jiosterior border of the testis,