449 MEDULLA OBLONGATA OE BULB. the posterior column of the cord. In the cervical part of the cord the posterior column is divided by the paramedian septum of pia mater into an inner column of Goll and an outer column of Burdach. These are prolonged upwards into the medulla, and in the lower part of the posterior area they stand out distinctly, and are separated from each other by a continuation upwards from the cord of the paramedian groove. In the medulla the inner of these strands is called the funiculus gracilis, whilst the outer one is designated the funiculus cuneatus. Each of these strands, when it reaches the level of the lower part of the floor of the fourth ven- tricle, ends in a slightly expanded bulb- ous prominence. The swollen extremity of the funiculus gracilis is called the clava. Optic tract Crus cerebri Corpus geniculatum externum +Pulvinar iCorpus geniculatum niternuni .Superior brachiuni Inferior brachiuni Inferior quadrigeminal body Lateral fillet Superior cerebellar peduncle Knia pontis Middle peduncle of cerebellum Restiform body Ligula Arcuate fibres (anterior superficial) Clava Cuneate tubercle Rolandic tubercle Lateral district of medulla Anterior column of cord Pig. 335.—Lateral View of the Pons, and Mesencephalon of a Human Fcetus. Medulla, full-time This is thrust aside from its neighbour of the opposite side by the opening up of the medulla to foi"m the floor of the fourth ventricle, and the central canal of the cord opens on the surface in the angle between the two clavae. The bulbous end of the fasciculus cuneatus receives the name of the cuneate tubercle (tuberculum cinereum), but it is only in the festal or very young brain that it is well marked. The elongated prominences formed on the surface of the medulla by these two strands and their enlarged extremities are, in a great measxire, due to the presence of two elongated nuclei or collections of gray matter which make their appearance subjacent to the strands, and which gradually increase in bulk as they are traced upwards. These are termed respectively the gracile (nucleus funiculi gracilis) and cuneate (nucleus funiculi cuneati) nuclei, and it can be easily shown that as the gray matter increases in quantity the fibres of the two corresponding strands diminish in number by coming to an end in connexion with the cells of the subjacent nuclei. Indeed, it is doubtful if any of the fibres of the gracile and cuneate strands extend upwards beyond these nuclei. But a third longitudinal elevation is also apparent in the lower part of the posterior area of the medulla. This is placed on the outer side of the funiculus cuneatus—between it and the posterior row of nerve-roots—and it has no counter- part in the posterior column of the cord. It is called the funiculus of Rolando, because it is produced by the substantia gelatinosa Rolandi, which caps the posterior horn, coming close to the surface and forming a bulging in this situation. The funiculus of Kolando is wedge-shaped in outline. Extremely narrow below, it widens as it is traced upwards, and finally ends in an expanded extremity called the tubercle of Bolando (tuberculum Eolandi). A thin layer of white matter, com- posed of longitudinally arranged fibres, is spread over this district, and separates the substantia Eolandi from the surface. These fibres constitute the spinal root of the fifth or trigeminal nerve, which here assumes a superficial position as it descends in the medulla. The restiform body (corpus restiforme) forms the upper part of the posterior area of the medulla. It lies between the floor of the fourth ventricle and the roots of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. It is a large and prominent rope-like strand, which inclines upwards and outwards, and then finally takes a turn backwards and enters the cerebellum. It forms the great link of connexion between the cerebellum on the one hand and the medulla and spinal cord on the other, and consequently it also receives the name of the inferior cere- bellar peduncle. At the same time it must be understood that it is not formed by fibres which are prolonged into it from the funiculus cuneatus and funiculus 29