THE TIBIO-FIBULAR JOINTS. 295 Equally strong but much shorter bands are found on the superior and inferior aspects of the joint. The former is intimately associated with the tendon of the biceps which strengthens the upper aspect of the joint and here also is found the occasional opening by which it communicates with the knee-joint. The synovial membrane is in certain cases continuous with that of the knee- joint in the manner already described. The interosseous membrane (membrana interossea cruris, Figs. 224, and 226) plays the part of an accessory ligament both for the upper and the lower tibio-fibular joint. It is attached to the interosseous borders on the shafts of the tibia and Hbulci, and binds"^hem together. The general direction of its fibres is from the tibia downwards arid outwards to the fibula, but many fibres pass in the opposite direction. The membrane may extend upwards until it comes into contact with the ligaments of the superior tibip-fibular joint, but there is always a vertical oval aperture in its upper part for the forward passage of the anterior tibial vessels. This aperture (Fig. 224), which is about one inch long, adjoins the shaft of the fibula at a point rather less than one inch below its head. Towards the lower end of the leg the distance between the tibia and the fibula rapidly diminishes, and consequently the width of the interosseous membrane is correspondingly reduced, so that it is tense throughout its entire length. In the lower part of the membrane there is a small opening for the passage of the anterior perforating vessels. There is no sharply-marked demarcation between the interosseous membrane and the interosseous ligament which connects the lower ends of the tibia and fibula—the one, indeed, may be said to run into the other. The inferior tibio-fibular joint (syndesmosis tibio-fibulare) is not on all occasions provided with articular cartilage, so that it :iiay either be a separate articu- lation, or it may merely present a series of ligaments which are accessory to the ankle- joint, because it is clear that, under any circumstances, the object aimed at in this articulation is to obtain additional security for the ankle-joint. The articular surface on the cibia, when present, constitutes a narrow articular strip on the outer side of the lower end of the bone, and the joint-cavity is practically an upward extension of the ankle-joint. The corresponding fibular facet is continuous with the extensive articular area, by means of which the fibula articulates with the astragalus. By far the greater part of the opposing surfaces of tibia and fibula are, however, non-articular and rough. The supporting ligaments are of great strength. The anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament (lig. malleoli lateralis anterius. Fig. 229) -s consists of strong fibres which pass obliquely -I downwards and outwards from the front of 3 the lower end of the tibia to the front of S. the external malleolus. -g The posterior inferior tibio-fibular liga- | ment (lig. malleoli lateralis posterius. Figs. 5 226 and 227) is equally strong, and passes in a similar direction between corresponding posterior surfaces. A transverse inferior tibio-fibular liga- ment (Figs. 226 and 227) stretches, in the direction indicated by its name, between the posterior inferior border of the tibia and the upper end of the pit on the inner and posterior aspect of the external malleolus. An interosseous ligament (Fig. 227), powerful and somewhat extensive, connects the contiguous rough non-articular surfaces. Superiorly, as already mentioned, it is continuous with the interosseous membrane. Anteriorly and posteriorly it comes into contact with the more superficial ligaments. Inferiorly it descends xmtil it comes into intimate association with the joint-cavity. Interosseous inembranB Posterior mforior tibio- tibular ligament Transverse iiitVi ior tibio- tibular ligament Internal lateral ^"^or deltoid ligament of aukle-joint Posterior calcaneo- astragaloid ligament Fig. 226.—Posterior Aspect op Inferior tibio-flbular and ankle-joints.