313 MUSCLES OF THE PECTORAL REGION. The nerves su^jplying following table :—■ iscles Nerve Supply. coniaecting the upper linih to the trunk are given in the Muscles. Trapezius Latissimus dorsi Levator scapulae Rhomboidei Pectorales Subclavius Serxatus magniis Nerves. / Spinal accessory nerve \ Cervical jjlexus Long subscajjular f Cervical ^ilexus \ Posterior scapular Posterior scapular / External anterior tlioracic \ Internal „ „ Brachial plexus Posterior thoracic Origin. Spinal Cord C. 3. 4. C. (6.) 7. 8. C. 3. 4. C. 5. C. 5. C. 5. 6. 7. C. 8. T. 1. C. 5. 6. C. 5. 6. 7. Actions. The muscles of this group (together with the sterno.-cleido-mastoid and omohyoid muscles) act for the most part in the movements of the slioulder girdle at the sterno-clavicular and acromio- clavicular joints. At the former joint they produce the various movements of tlie clavicle on the sternum, and cause the shoulder to move in a radius the centre of which is the sterno-clavicular joint. At the latter articulation they produce a rotation of the scapula on tlie clavicle, and a consequent alteration in the direction of the glenoid fossa. At the same time the several muscles are agents in other equally important movements, when the shoulder girdle is fixed ; movements of the head and neck ; movements of the trunk and libs ; and, in the case of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, important movements of the arm at the shoulder joint. 1. Movements of the Shoulder Girdle.—-The action of this group of muscles on the shoulder girdle (mainly corresponding to movements at the sterno-clavicular joint) may be expressed in the following table :— a. Movement in a Vertical Plane. b. Movement in a Horizontal Plane. Elevation. Depression. Forwards. Backwards. Trapezius (upper fibres) Levator scapulte Rhomboidei Sterno-mastoid Omohyoid Trapezius (lower fibres) Subclavius Pectoralis minor Latissimus dorsi Pectoralis major (lower fibres) ■ Serratiis magnus Pectoralis major Pectoralis minor Trapezius Rhomboidei Latissimus dorsi c. Rotation—a combination of these muscles. 2. Movements of the scapula on the clavicle produce an alteration of the direction of the glenoid fossa of the scapula, and are accompanied hj movements, inwards and outwards, forwards and backwards, of the inferior angle of the scapula. By the combined action of the muscles acting u2)on the shoulder girdle a rotatory movement of the scapula at the acromio-clavicular joint is effected, Ijy wdiich the relation of the glenoid fossa to the head of the humerus is p)reserved in movements of the arm. 3. In forced inspiration, the sterno-mastoid, trapezius, levator scapuhe, rhomboidei, sub- clavius, omohyoid, serratus magnus, pectoral muscles, and latissimus dorsi, acting together, raise and fix the shoulder girdle; while those of them which have costal attachments—subclavius, pectoral muscles, serratus magnus, and latissimus dorsi, simultaneously elevate the ribs and expand the thorax. 4. Lateral flexion and rotation of the spine in the neck is eflFected partly by the action of the trajjezius, levator scajnihe, and rhomboid muscles (with the shoulder fixed). The latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major act in climbing in a similar way, raising up the trunk towards the shoulder. 5. Action on the Upper Limb.—By reason of their insertion into the humerus the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi muscles assist the movements of the upper limb. Acting together, the two muscles depress the shoulder, and draw the arm to the side of the body, at tlie same time rotating the humerus inwards. The two parts of the pectoralis major have slightly dift'erent actions on tlie humerus. The clavicular part of the muscle (portio attoUens) draws the arm in- wards and upwards; the costo-sternal part of the muscle (portio deprimens) draws it inwards and