COMPONENT PAETS OF GEAY MATTER OF SPINAL CORD. 429 stantia gelatinosa stains more deeply with carmine, and has a more transparent or translucent appearance than the suljstantia spongiosa. In transverse sections of the cord the substantia Rolandi, in the cervical and dorsal regions, presents the appearance of a V-shaped mass, embracing the extremity of the caput of the posterior horn of gray matter; in the lumbar region this cap assumes a semi-lunar outline. In the substantia gelatinosa the neuroglia is present in large quantity, and in the Rolandic portion of it small nerve-cells are developed in considerable numbers. In the substantia centralis the nerve-cells are few in number, and the ring which it forms is traversed by the fine processes which proceed from the deep ends of the ependymal cells which line the central canal. Nerve-Cells.—The nerve-cells are scattered plentifully throughout the gray matter, but perhaps not in such great numbers as might be expected when we note the enormous number of nerve-fibres with which they stand in relation. They are all, without exception, multipolar, and send off from their various aspects several branching protoplasmic processes or dendrites, and one axon, which becomes the axis cylinder of a nerve-fibre. In size they vary considerably, and it is generally admitted that the bulk of a nerve-cell has a more or less definite relation to the length of the axis cylinder which proceeds from it. When the nerve-cells are studied in a series of transverse sections of the cord, it will be noticed that a large proportion of them are grouped in clusters in certain districts of the gray matter; and as these groups are seen in very much the same position in successive sections, it is clear that these cells are arranged in longitudinal columns of greater or less length. Thus we recognise (1) a ventraL-group., or column of cells in the anterior horn of gray matter; (2) a lateral group or column in the lateral-horn olgray matter, where this exists; and (3) a posterior vesicular column of cells (Clarke's column), forming a most conspicuous group in the mesial part of the cervix of the posterior horn in the dorsal region of the cord. OtheFcelts besides those forming these columns are scattered somewhat irregu- larly throughout the gray matter of the posterior horn and the part of the gray crescent which lies between the two horns ; and although these also in some measure may be classified into groups, the arrangement thus effected is not of so definite a character as to justify us in dwelling upon it in the present instance. Ventral Cell-Column and the Origin of the Fibres of the Anterior Nerve- Roots.—The ventral cell-group occupies the anterior horn of gray matter, and in it are found the largest and most conspicuous cells in the spinal cord. It extends from one end of the cord to the other. These ventral nerve-cells have numerousi wide-spreading dendritic processes, and it is to be noticed that certain of these dendrites do not confine their ramifications to the gray matter. Thus, some of the' cells along the mesial border of the anterior horn of gray matter send dendrites across the mesial plane in the anterior commissure to end in the anterior gray horn of the opposite side; whilst others, lying along the lateral or outer margin of the anterior horn of gray matter, send dendrites in amongst the nerve-fibres of the adjoining white matter. The axons or axis cylinder processes of a large proportion of the ventral cells converge together; and, becoming meduUated, form bundles which pass out from the gray matter, and through the white matter which separates the thick end of the anterior horn from the surface of the cord, to finally emerge as the fascicles of the anterior nerve-roots. These cells, then, are the sources from which the nerve- fibres of the anterior nerve-roots proceed, and in consequence they are frequently spoken of as the " motor cells " of the cord. In the chick a few of the more deeply seated of the ventral cells, placed in the cervical part of the anterior horn of gray matter, send their axons backwards through the posterior horu to the postero-lateral groove. Here they emerge from the cord and con- stitute a small group of efferent nerve-fibres in the afferent posterior nerve-root. It is more than doubtful if any such fibres exist in the posterior nerve-root of the mammal (Sherrington). The ventral cells are not scattered uniformly throughout the anterior horn of gray matter. They are aggregated more closely together in certain parts of the anterior horn,