547 COMMISSUEAL FIBEES. the form of a horse-shoe, the concavity of v^^hich looks backwards. The middle free portion is placed immediately in front of the anterior pillars of the fornix as they curve dovi^nwards, and also in intimate relation to the anterior end of the third ventricle. Posteriorly, the small portion of the anterior commissure which appears in the ventricle between the two pillars of the fornix is clothed with the ventricular ependyma; anteriorly, the commissure is connected with the lamina cinerea as it stretches from the optic chiasma upwards towards the rostrum of the corpus callosum. The lateral part of the anterior commissure penetrates the cerebral hemisphere, and, gaining the lower part of the internal capsule, divides into two portions, viz. a small lower olfactory part and a much larger temporal part. The olfactory portion of the anterior commissure is an exceedingly small fasci- culus. It passes downwards and forwards, and finally enters the olfactory tract. It is composed (1) of true commissural fibres, which bind one olfactory bulb to the other ; and (2) of other fibres, which connect the olfactory bulb of one side with the temporal lobe of the other side. Ventricle V. Corpus callosum Fig. 407.—Two Coronal Sectioxs through the Cerebral Hemispheres of an Orang, in the Plane OF the ANTEIilOR COMMISSURE. A, Section through the left hemisphere iu a plane a short distance behind B, which is a section through the right hemispliere. The temporal portion is formed of almost the whole of the fibres of the com- missure. It is carried transversely outwards, under the lenticular nucleus, until it gains the interval between the globus pallidus and the putamen. At this point it changes its direction and sweeps backwards. In coronal sections through the brain, behind this bend, the temporal portion of the anterior commissure appears as an oval bundle of fibres cut transversely and placed in close contact with the under surface of the lenticular nucleus (Fig. 403, p. 540). Finally, it turns sharply down- wards on the outer aspect of the amygdaloid nucleus, and its fibres are lost in the white medullary centre of the temporal lobe. The precise part of the cerebral cortex with which these fibres stand in connexion is not known. When the lateral part of the anterior commissure is displayed by dissection, it is seen to be twisted like a rope. The psalterium, or the Mppocampal commissure, is composed of fibres which con- nect the cornu ammonis of one side with the corresponding structure of the opposite side. It is described on page 531. Association Fibres.—The association fibres bind together different portions of