166 OSTEOLOGY. runs across it; the posterior and external rounded part of the foramen is occupied by the lateral sinus, which here joins the internal jugular vein. A meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal or occipital artery also enters the skull through this compartment. The fore and internal part of the foramen is confluent with the groove for the inferior petrosal sinus, which turns downwards in front of the spicule above referred to. The interval between the portions of the foramen occupied by the two veins allows of the transmission of the glosso-pharyngeal, vagus, and spinal accessory nerves in order from before backwards. About a quarter of an inch above and to the outer side of the fore paTt of the foramen jugulare the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone is pierced by the internal auditory meatus, through which the facial and auditory nerves, together with the pars intermedia of Wrisberg, and the auditory branch of the basilar artery leave the cranial cavity. Behind the jugular foramen and close to the margin of the foramen magnum the opening of the posterior condylic foramen, when present, may be seen. This gives passage to a vein which joins the vertebral vein inferiorly. The internal aperture of the mastoid foramen is noticed opening into the groove for the lateral sinus, a little below the level of the superior border of the petrous temporal. Through it passes an emissary vein which joins the occipital vein externally; the mastoid branch of the occipital artery also enters the cranial cavity through this foramen. The posterior fossa is divided into two halves posteriorly by the internal occipital crest, to which the falx cerebelli is attached, the floors of the hollows on either side of which are often exceedingly thin and are for the lodgment of the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. The grooves for the following blood sinuses are usually distinct— the superior petrosal running along the superior border of the petrous temporal; the inferior petrosal lying along the line of suture between the petrous temporal and basilar process of the occipital bone; the occipital sinus grooving the internal occipital crest; and the lateral sinus curving forwards and outwards from the internal occipital protuberance, across the internal surface of the squamous occipital, to reach the posterior inferior angle of tlie parietal bone, in front of which it turns downwards and inwards to reach the jugular foramen, describing a sigmoid curve, and grooving deeply the inner surface of the mastoid and posterior aspect of the petrous portions of the temporal bone. Before it terminates at the jugular foramen it again reaches the occipital bone and channels the upper surface of the jugular process of that bone. Slight grooves for meningeal arteries are also seen— some pass upwards, whilst others turn downwards and are occupied by branches from the posterior offsets of the middle meningeal arteries. Mesial Sagittal Section of the Skull. Such a section should be made a little to one or other side of the mesial plane, so as to pass through the nasal fossse lateral to the septum; one half will then display the nasal septum in position, whilst in the other the outer wall of the nasal fossa of that side will be exposed. The form of the cranial cavity is of course sul)ject to many variations dependent on individual and racial peculiarities. Tlie following details are, however, worthy of note. The hinder border of the foramen magnum (opisthion), and consequently the floor of the posterior cranial fossa occupies the same horizontal plane as the hard palate. The anterior bordej of the foramen magnum (basion) lies a little higher, so that the plane of the foramen is, in the higher races at least, oblique, and is directed downwards and slightly forwards. From the basion, a line passing upwards and forwards to reach the suture between the sphenoid and ethmoid passes through the basicranial axis formed by the basioccipital, the basisphenoid, and the presphenoid. The basicranial axis is w^edge-shaped on section posteriorly, whilst anteriorly it is of considerable width, and has within it the large sphenoidal air sinus. Its upper surface leads upwards and forwards with a varying degree of obliquity from the Ijasion to the overhanging edge of the dorsum sellfe, in front of which the pituitary fossa, the floor of which is quite thin, is well seen in the section.