THE MOKPHOLOGY OF THE CEANIAL NERVES. 659 THE MORPHOLOGY OF THE CEANIAL NERVES. The head and face, jjossibly the oldest, and from every point of view tlie most fundamental and imjjortant portion of the bodily fabric, present in some respects a more conservative type of structure, and in other asj^ects have been subject to more j^rofound alterations than other parts of the body. Segmentation is characteristic of the trunk, pervading bones, muscles, vessels, and nerves. An absence of true segmentation is characteristic of the head region—omitting for the moment the cranial nerves. The head is characterised by the possession of an unsegmented tubular nervous system, enclosed in a bony capsule not properly segmented, with which the capsules of the sense-organs become united. The pre-oral and post-oral visceral arches and clefts are not truly segmental like the costal arches of the trunk. The branchial clefts are said to be inter-segmental : and their muscles (associated with the myoblast surrounding the developing heart) are described as visceral, and not myotomic, so that the branchial vessels and nerves (similarly) are not to be regarded as comparable to the segmental vessels and nerves of the trunk. The truly segmental structures present are certain persistent myotomes or muscle plates, which give rise to muscles innervated by the third, fourth, sixth, and twelfth cranial nerves. Another difficulty in the morphology of the head arises in the absence of body cavity, and the consequent difficulty of differentiating the somatic and splanchnic mesoblast, and the somatic and splanchnic distribution of a given nerve. Under these circumstances there is little help to be derived from head structures other than the nerves themselves in seeking a solution of the question of the morphological relations of the cranial nerves. The spinal nerves are, generally speaking, all alike. The cranial nerves, on the other hand, are all different. Scarcely any two nerves are alike; and no single cranial nerve possesses in it.self all the characteristic features of a spinal nerve. As seen in relation to their development, the cranial nervous system possesses a series of dorsal ganglia, comparable in position and development to the spinal ganglia ; and the efferent roots arise in the same way, and occupy somewhat the same position as the ventral roots of the spinal nerves. But there is no single complete segmental nerve in the head. The very essence of the architecture of the head is a want of segmentation ; and this character is shared by the cranial nerves. In addition it must be borne in mind that, in relation to the mammalian head, there are organs which have no homologues in the trunk, and on whose existence the arrangement of the cranial nerves depends—e.g. sense-organs and gill-arches. Among the cranial nerves tliere are several which possess a resemblance to one or other of the elements of a typical spinal nerve. In the neck the origin of the fibres of the spinal accessory nerve is from the side of the spinal cord, and it is in series with the motor roots of the vago-glossopharyngeal, facial, and fifth nerves. His (as shown in the account of the development of the nerves) has described the neuroblastic origin of the motor roots of these nerves from the lateral part of the basal lamina of the primitive brain. They thus form a series apart—lateral motor roots—separable from the series of motor roots originating from the mesial part of the basal lamina, comprising those of the third, fourth, sixth, and twelfth nerves ; the latter nerve roots being comparable to and in series with the ventral roots of the spinal nerves. The lateral motor roots are not represented in the spinal series except in the neck. It is questionable if there is any fundamental distinction between the lateral and ventral motor roots of the cranial nerves. - The spinal accessory fibres, for example, when traced into the spinal cord, have an origin from the anterior cornu of the cord, and only differ from the motor or ventral root fibres of a spinal nerve in their different course to the surface. The ganglia in association with the cranial nerves are comparable to the spinal ganglia. The fifth nerve, with the Gasserian ganglion, the ganglion of the facial, the ganglia of the auditory, of the glosso-pharyngeal and the vagus, and the transitory (Froriep's) ganglion of the hypoglossal nerves, arise from the brain in a comparable position, and in the same way as the spinal ganglia. But another series of structures —the sense organs of the lateral line, and the so-called " epibranchial" organs, which are highly developed in lower vertebrates (e.g. elasmobranchs), and which appear transitorily only, or are absent altogether in mammalian development, may possibly have a share in the formation of certain of these ganglia or parts of them (e.g. ciliary ganglion, geniculate ganglion, ganglia of the auditory nerve, petrosal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, and the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus). Certain of the cranial nerves are apparently distinctly segmental, supplying muscles derived from the persisting myotomes of the head. The first three myotomes are said to give rise to the muscles of the eyeball. The first produces the superior rectus, inferior rectus, internal rectus, and inferior oblique muscles, and its segmental nerve is the oculo-motor. The second myotorrie is said to produce the superior oblique muscle, and its segmental nerve is the trochlear. The third myotome is said to produce the external rectus muscle, and its segmental nerve is the abducent. It has been asserted that the tongue muscles are derived from the last three or four cephalic and first cervical myotomes, and that the hypoglossal nerve is the segmental nerve for these myotomes, comprising the motor elements of several (four or five) segmental nerves. The intervening myotomes between the first three and this occipital series disappearing, the cor- responding elements of segmental nerves are supposed to be absent also (Fig. 473). Certain of the cranial nerves are essentially related to the structures derived from and asso- ciated with the pre-oral and post-oral visceral clefts and arches (Fig. 474). The trigeminal nerve is essentially the nerve of the mandibular arch. By its efferent root it supplies the muscles of that arch. By its afferent root and branches it is related to (1) the fronto-uasal process (oph- thalmic division and ciliary ganglion); (2) the maxillary arch (superior maxillary nerve); and