953 THE TONGUE. Papillae of the Tongne (Fig. 640).—These are formed hy variousl}--shaped projections of the corium of the iiiiicous ineml^rane, covered by thick caps of epitlie- liuiii. They are of three different varieties:—1, Conical or filiform (papilhe conicse, p. filif orme s); 2, Fuugiforui (papillfe fungi- formes et p.lenti- culares); and o, Circumvallate (papillffi vallatte). The conical or filiform papillse (Fig. 642) are the smallest and most nnmerons, forming as they do a dense crop of minute pro- jections all over the anterior two- thirds of the dcjrsum, and also upon the upper part of the margin and tip, of the tongue. Pos- teriorly they are arranged in divergent I'ows running out- wards and for- wards from the raphe, parallel to the lind)S of the sulcus terminalis. More anteriorly, tlie rows become nearly trans- verse, and near the tip irregular. Eacli papilla is composed of a , conical projection of the corium, beset with micro- scopic papillse like those of the skin and covered '"^''^^ specimen from which the drawing was made was obtained from a formalin-liardeiied 1 V 1 -H-iipV Irn ■ ''ocly> hy removing the posterior wall of the pharynx while leaving the anterior 0} a tmCK iOng wali imdisturbed. The follswing points should be noted : the greate.s;t width of cap of stratified the pharynx, above, at the lateral recesses ; the posterior nares, with the inferior SfjUamOUS epithe- turbinated bones seen through them; the levator cu.shion : and the ])haiyngeal portion of the tongue. Often, however, the cap of epitheHinn is broken up into several long slender liair-like processes, giving rise to the variety known tis filifor7/i jm2:iillce. The cap of epithelitnii is being constantly shed and renewed, and an excessive or diminished rate of shedding or renewal, coupled with the presence of various fungi, gives rise to the several varieties of " tongue found in diffei'ent diseases. The conical aiKl filiform papillfE are probably of a preliensible or tactile nature, and are highly developed, and horny, in carnivora. Internal carotid aitci.V - -Foramen lacerum niHdiiiiii Cartilage of Eustachian tube Cavity of Eustacliiau tube Levator palati —Inferior turbinaterl bone -Lateral recess of phniynx ■ —Levator cushion Superior constrictor nuisclc Glands in soft jjalate Uvula Palatopliaryiigeus Ciicunivallate paiiilln- Sulcus terminalis Glossoi)liaryngeal ui'V\ c Foramen ca-cum Lymjilioid fcjUitde Middle constrictor uuisclc Epiglottis Pliaryugo-epiglottic fold lyingual artery Hyoglossus umscle Hyoid bone Superior laryngeal artery ^Internal laryngeal nerve "^Aryteno-epiglottic fold Sinus pyriformis Superior aperture of larynx Inferior constrictor nuisclc Top of cricoid cartilage Fig. 641. -The Anteuiou Wall of the Phakvn'x with its Orifices, from behind.