582 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. dorsal trunks, from the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, and lies behind the axillary artery. The first thoracic nerve does not usually contribute to the posterior cord. (4) The nerves of distribution for the shoulder and arm are derived from these secondary cords, receiving in this way various contributions from the constituent spinal nerves. From the outer cord arise the external anterior thoracic, musculo- cutaneous nerve, and the outer head of the median nerve. From the inner cord arise the inner head of the median, the ulnar, internal cutaneous, lesser internal cutaneous, and the internal anterior thoracic nerves. From the posterior cord arise the circumflex, three subscapular, and the musculo-spiral nerves. It is to be remembered, that, altbough derived from a secondary cord formed by a certain .set of spinal nerves, any given nerve does not necessarily contain fibres from all the constituent nerves; e.g. both the mnsculo-cutaneous and circumfle.x nerves, from the outer and posterior cords, are ultimately derived only from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. The Branches of the Brachial Plexus. It is customary to separate artificially the nerves of distribution of the brachial plexus into two sets: (1) supra-clavicular and (2) infra-clavicular. Supra-clavicular Nerves.—The nerves derived from the plexus above the level of the clavicle are, like the main trunks, divisible into two series; anterior branches arising from the front, and posterior branches arising from the back of the plexus (Fig. 429, p. 581). Anterior Branches. Posterior Branches. 1. Nerves to scalenus anticus and 1. Nerves to scaleni, medius and longus colli. posticus. 2. Communicating nerve to join 2. Posterior scapular nerve. the phrenic nerve. 3. Long thoracic nerve. 3. Nerve to the subclavius muscle. 4. Supra-scapular nerve. The muscular twigs to the scalenus anticus and longus colli arise from the lower four cervical nerves, as they emerge from the intervertebral foramina. The eommunicating nerve to the phrenic arises usually from the fifth cervical nerve at the outer border of the scalenus anticus. It is sometimes absent, and occasionally an additional root is present from the sixth cervical nerve. In some instances the nerve is replaced by a branch from the nerve to the subclavius, which passes inwards behind the sterno-mastoid muscle to join the phrenic at the inlet of the thorax. The nerve to the subclavius is a slender nerve, which arises from the front of the cord formed by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It descends in the posterior triangle of the neck over the third part of the subclavian artery. It often com- municates with the phrenic nerve. The branches to the scaleni, medius and posticus, are small trunks which arise from the lower four cervical nerves as they emerge from the intervertebral foramina. The posterior scapular nerve (n. dorsalis scapulae, nerve to the rhomboids) arises from the back of the fifth cervical nerve, as it emerges from the intervertebral foramen. It appears in the posterior triangle of the neck, after piercing the scalenus medius muscle. It is directed downwards, under cover of the levator anguli scapuke and rhomboid muscles, and along the vertebral border of the scapula, to be distributed to the levator anguli scapulae, rhomboideus minor, and rhomboideus major muscles. It occasionally pierces the levator anguli scapulae. The long thoracic nerve (n. thoracalis longus, external respiratory nerve of Bell) arises by three roots, of which the middle one is usually the largest, from the back of the fifth, sixth, and seventh nerves, as they emerge from the intervertebral foramina. The nerve pierces the scalenus medius in one or two trunks, and, descending along the side of the neck behind the cords of the brachial plexus, it enters the axilla between the upper edge of the serratus magnus and the axillary artery. It continues its downward course over the outer surface of the serratus magnus, to which it is distributed.