THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1078 for, as already poiutod out, Liu; ])aucreas is devoid of a, regular capsule;, and possesses instead merely an adventitious coat of tine connective tissue. The gland ))elongs to tlie class of aciuo-tubular glands, its alveoli or acini ))eing elongated like those of Brunner's glands; otlierwise it corresponds very closely to a serous salivary gland, tin; general structure of which will l)e found on page 958. Variations.—The chief \ ai'iat,ions found are :—(1) A separation of the i)art of the head, known as tlie inicinate process, wliicli then forms a lesser jnmcre.as. (2) A growth of the pancreas around the duodenum, wliicli it niav ])ractically encircle for a short ])art of its course. And (3) an ojjening of its (hict into the tluodeuum, independently of the l)ile duct. An accessory 'pancreas (pancreas accessoriuiii) is also .sonietinies found in the wall of the stomach or of the jejunum. Diverticula of the duodeninn, already descrilied ())age 1020), ought perhaps to be mentioned in this connection. Vessels.—The arteries of the pancreas are :—(1) The superior pancreatico-duodenal, a hrauch of the gastro-duodenal artery, which runs down on the front of the head (Fig. 723), sending branches outwards to the duodenum, as well as numerous twigs into the substance of the pancreas. (2) The inferior pancreatico-duodenal, a branch of the upper jjart of the superior mesenteric artery; it runs U])wards and to the right across the back of the head, and sends branches to it and to the duodenum, one of which runs between the head ancl the duodenum. These two pancreatico-duodenal arteries anastomose around the inferior border of the head. (3) The inferior pancreatic branch of the superior mesenteric (or sonietinies of the gastro- duodenal) artery, a considerablt- branch, which arises along with, or near, the last, and runs to the left along the lower border of the jmncreas, often even as far as its tail. (4) Pancreatic branches of the splenic artery, are several (3 to 5) fair-sized ))ranches M-hich come off from the splenic as it runs behind the up2)er Ijorder of the gland ; they enter the pancreas immediately, and traverse its substance from above downwards, .soane sending branches in both directions along the course of the jjancreatic duct. (5) Small pancreatic branches also arise from the hepatic artery whilst it rests on the upper part of the gland, and enter it inuuediately. The pan- creatica magna, which is described as accom])anying the duct from left to right, does not seem to exist in the majority of cases. The veins are : (1) An anterior pancreatico-duodenal (Fig. 723), which passes downwards and to the left, on the front of the head, and joins the siijjerior mesenteric ; (2) a ]}osterior pancreatico- duodenal, which crosses the back of the head, and ojjens into the portal vein; (3) several small pancreatic veins which join the splenic; and (4) some from the upjier part of the head and neck join the portal, which latter vein ixltimately receives all the blood returned from the gland. The lymphatics pass chielly with the s])lenic lymphatics to the coeliac glands; some also are connected with a few glands which lie near the ui)i)er end of the su])erior mesenteric vessels. All the lymphatics of the organ pass ultimately to the coeliac glands. Tiie nerves, which are almost entirely nou-meduUated, come from the solar plexus, through the cceliac, splenic, and superior mesenteric ])lexuses. Development of the Pancreas. The pai)creas is developed at a very early period in man (being visible in embi'yos of 8 mm.) from at least two independent hollow outgrowths, one of which takes place from the ventral aspect of the future duodenum in connection with the diverticula which form the liver; the other from the dorsal side of the tube. From tiiis latter, which springs from the duodenum neai-er to the pylorus than the ventral outgrowth, the greater part of the gland is formed, whilst the ventral diverticulum gives rise to tlie smaller portion. About the sixth week the two outgrowths meet, and they, as well as their ducts, fuse. At first the main duct of the gland is connected with the dorsal outgrowth ; later on, the portion of this duct between the duodenum and the meeting of the two ducts lags behind in its growth, whilst the corresponding portion of the ventral duct increases rajiidly in size; and finally, this latter appears to be the direct continuation of the main duct, whilst the former, and now much smaller, dorsal duct, becomes the accessory pancreatic duct. The two ducts come to open on the inner or left side of the gut, owing to the turning over of the duodenum on its right side, and the unequal growth of different portions of its wall. The primary diverticula give off hollow lateral buds, which in their turn give off others, and this process is continued until the mass of the gland is formed. The terminal buds thus produced develop into the gland acini, whilst the others form the gland ducts. When first formed in the embryo, the pancreas runs ujjwards towards the head, behind the stimiach and between the two layers of the mesogastrium, so that it possesses a complete peritoneal covering. Subsequently, as a result of the changes which take jjlace in the position of the stomach, it turns over on to its right side, and becomes adherent to the posterior abdominal wall, its head occupying the concavity of the duodenum, and its tail passing towards the spleen. The peritoneum of its posterior siirface is soon lost by absorption ; ljut it persists on its anterior aspect.