526 THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. fissure. Its hinder end turns upwards into the parietal lobe and is surrounded by the angular gyrus. The second temporal sulcus is placed midway between the parallel sulcus and the infero-lateral border of the hemisphere. It is very rare to find it in the form of a continuous cleft; usually it is broken up into several isolated pieces, one behind the other. Its hinder part, which turns upwards into the parietal lobe, lies close to the artificial line of demarcation between the occipital and parietal lobes, and is surrounded by the postparietal gyrus. By the two temporal sulci the outer surface of the temporal lobe is mapped out into three tiers of horizontal convolutions, which are termed the first, second, and third temporal gyri. On the tentorial surface of the tev^wral lobe there is one fissure, termed the occipito-temporal sulcus. The occipito-temporal sulcus lies to the outer side of the collateral fissure and close to the infero-lateral margin of the hemisphei'e. It runs in an antero-postei'ior direction, and is not confined to the temporal lobe, but extends backwards towards the occipital pole. It is usually broken up into two or more separate pieces. The occipito-temporal convolution is situated between the collateral fissure and the occipito-temporal sulcus. It extends from the occipital pole behind to the temporal pole in front. The narrow strip of surface on the outer side of the occipito-temporal sulcus is continuous, round the infero-lateral margin of the hemisphere, with the third temporal convolution on the outer surface of the cerebrum, and may be reckoned as a part of it. The thi'ee temporal convolutions and the occipito-temporal convolutions run into each other at the temporal pole. Island of Reil or Insula.—The insula is a triangular and somewhat bulging field of cerebral cortex, which lies on a deeper plane than the general surface of the hemisphere and is hidden from view by the four opercula which overlap it. It is circumscribed by a Hmiting sulcus (sulcus circularis), already described, and its dependent apical part, which is directed downwards, is in close relation to the anterior perforated spot and the Sylvian vallecula. Here the limiting sulcus is absent and the gray matter on the surface of the insula passes continuously into the anterior perforated spot. The place of transition is called the limen insulae. The insula is divided into several diverging convolutions by a series of radiating sulci. Of the latter, one, which presents the same direction and lies in the same plane as the fissure of Rolando, receives the name of the sulcus centralis insulae (Fig. 382, C, p. 515). It divides the insula into an anterior/?'0%to/ part and a posterior parieto-limbic part. Limbic Lobe.—This lobe is seen on the mesial surface of the hemisphere in the form of an elongated ring-like convolution, the extremities of which approach closely to each other at the locus perforatus anticus. These extremities are con- nected by the roots of the olfactory, tract, and in this manner the limbic ring may be considered to be closed. The upper part of the limbic lobe is placed in intimate relation to the extremities and upper surface of the corpus callosum, and receives the name of callosal convolution or gyrus fornicatus. The lower portion of the lobe is termed the hippocampal convolution and forms the inner part of the tentorial surface of the hemisphere. The continuity between the hippocampal gyrus and the callosal convolution is established below the hinder end of the corpus callosum by a narrow portion of the limbic lobe, called the isthmus. From this point the hippocampal convolution extends forwards towards the temporal pole. Finally, on the side of the crus cerebri, the hippocampal gyrus is folded back on itself and ends in a recurved hook-like extremity, called the uncus. The imcus does not reach so far forwards as the temporal pole. The callosal convolution begins below the anterior end of the corpus callosum at the locus perforatus anticus, and, winding round the genu of the corpus callosum, it is continued backwards on its upper surface to its hinder thickened extremity or splenium. Curving round this, it becomes greatly narrowed through the calearine fissure cutting into it. This narrow part is termed the isthmus, and constitutes the link of connexion between the callosal gyrus and the hippocampal gyrus. The