880 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. thickenings which meet and fuse together from their distal to their proximal ends, forming a septum which divides the interior of the aortic bulb into two parts, and then projects downwards into the ventricular chamber till it meets and fuses with the anterior part of the upper border of the ventricular septum. The upper or distal part of the septum of the aortic bulb commences from the dorsal wall of the cavity between the fourth and fifth cephalic arches, and it is placed transversely, but its lower end lies more antero-posteriorly, therefore it twists spirally as it descends, and as a result the right part of the ventricle is thrown into continuity with the fifth cephalic aortic arches, whilst the left part of the ventricle retains continuity with the remaining cephalic aortic arches. After the septum of the aortic bulb is completed, grooves appear along its margins on the surface of the bulb ; the grooves deepen until they divide the septum and consequently the bulb into two parts ; the part in connexion with the right ventricle and the fifth aortic arch becomes the pulmonary artery, and the part in connexion with the left ventricle and the remaining arches becomes the ascending aorta. The separation of the primitive auricle into right and left portions is indicated externally by the appearance of a groove on the upper and posterior wall ; opposite this 7th segmental artery Dorsal aorta Vertebral artery Basilar artery Foramen ovale Inferior vena I'aval blood stream Posterior cerebral artery Posterior coni- rauuicating artery Internal carotid artery Middle cerebral artery Anterior cerebral artery Inter-auricular, septum Fig. 601.—Development of the Heart and the Main Arteries. Diagram of the heart, showing the formation of its septa, and of the ceplialic jjortion of the arterial system. groove an auricular septum gi-ows downwards in the interior of the auricle. Its lower border gradually approaches the endocardial cushion in the auricular canal, and for a time a small opening is left between the upper ends of the fused endocardial cushions and the lower edge of the septum. This is the ostium primum; it is closed by the fusion of the septum with the endocardial cushions, but befoi'e its closure is completed an aperture appears in the upper part of the septum; this latter aperture, the ostium secundum, becomes the foramen ovale. A second auricular septum, the septum secundum, grows down- wards to the right of the first septum ; its lower margin grows downwards past the foramen ovale, but stops some distance from the posterior wall of the auricle, and this margin forms the limbus Vieussenii, which bounds a fossa, the fossa ovalis, in front and below, whilst the floor of the fossa is formed by the primary septum, and the foi'amen which lies at tlie upper part of the fossa is closed after birth by the fusion of the primary and secondaiy septa. The sinus venosus, which in the early stages receives the vitelline veins from the yolk sac, the allantoic or umbilical veins from the placenta, and the ducts of Cuvier which return the blood from the Wolffian bodies and the body of the embryo, is the only portion of the primitive heart which is not divided into two parts hy the formation of a septum. It lies at first below and behind the auricle, with which it communicates freely.