314 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. downwards. The latissiiniis dorsi acting alone, besides rotating tlie liinl), draws it inwards and baclcwards, as in the act of swimming. FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. The deep fascia covering the scapular muscles presents no feature of special importance. Attached to the clavicle, acromion, and scapular spine, it is thin over Levator anouli scapul/E. Trapezius- SUPRASPINATUS Scaimlar s]iine (cut) Infraspinatus — ieres minor "■>a III fj Dorsal scapular j artery (brancli of)' LaTISSIMUS DORSI Nerve to teres minor Circumflex nerve ai^il artery Deltoid (reflected) Cutaneous branch f circumflex Triceps (outer liead) i RicEPS (long head) Miisculo-spiral nerve Triceps (outer head) Brachialis anticus Triceps (inner head) External intermuscular sei)tuni I External cutaneous branches / of musculo-spii'al nerve Flexor carpi- ULNARIS Brachio-radialis Extensor carpi radialis LONGIOR Anconeus Extensor muscles of fore- arm (common tendon) the deltoid muscle. Below the deltoid it is thicker; it gives origin to the infraspinatus muscle, and is continuous with the fascise of the axilla and the back. Tlie muscles proper to the shoulder comprise the deltoid, supraspinatus, infraspina- tus, teres minor, teres major, and subscapularis. They surround, and along with other muscles, act on the shoulder joint. The deltoid, a coarsely fas- ciculated, multipennate muscle, has an extensive origin from (1) the front of the clavicle in its outei' third; (2) the outer boi'der of the acromion process ; and (3) the lower border of the spine of the scapula. Its origin embraces the insertion of the trapezius. The fibres of the muscle converge to the outer side of the shaft of the humerus, to be inserted into a well-marked V-shaped impression above the spiral groove. The insertion is partly united with the tendon of the pectoralis major. The deltoid is superficial in its whole extent, and forms the prominence of the shoulder. Its anterior border is separated from the pectoralis major by a narrow interval, in which the cephalic vein and humeral Fia. 234.—Deltoid Region and Back of the Ahm.