THE PLACENTA. 55 vascular, and it diminishes very considerably in thickness. The epithelium dis- appears from the spaces in the spongy layer, and the spaces themselves are flattened out into long slit - like clefts, in which condition they remain till the period of pregnancy is completed. The decidua vera is thus reduced to the condition of a relatively thin membrane, and its inner surface is fused with the remains of the decidua capsularis. The Decidua Basalis.—Apart from the changes due to the invasion of the fretal villi the most important transformations in this part of the decidua occur in the stratum compactum. The alterations in the spongy layer are similar to those which occur in tlie same layer of the decidua vera, viz. the lining epithelium dis- appears and the spaces are flattened out into a layer of cleft-like slits. In the stratum compactum, however, much more striking changes occur; the .superficial epithehum and the tubular portions of the glands disappear, but the blood-vessels become greatly dilated, and, consequently, tlie layer increases consider- ably in thickness. The terminal loops of the small blood-vessels which lie in the superficial part become converted into enormous blood-sinuses, but in the deeper part of the stratum a thin layer, which lies next the stratum spongiosum, remains relatively imchanged; this deeper part is called the basal layer, and through it the blood-vessels pass to and from the blood-sinuses in the more superficial portion of the membrane. When it is completed, therefore, the maternal portion of the placenta, whicli is the transformed decidua basalis, no longer consists of the stratum compactum, the stratum spongiosum, and the unchanged layer, but it is formed from within outwards of—(1) a layer of blood-sinuses, (2) the basal layer, (3) the modified spongy layer, and (4) the unchanged layer. The difference between the decidua basalis and the maternal part of the placenta may be tabulated as follows :— It must not be forgotten, however, that whilst the changes which result in tlie formation of the maternal placenta out of the decidua serotina are taking place the stratum compactum has been invaded by the placental villi. The first result of this invasion is the destruction of the superficial epithelium of the decidua, whicli entirely disappears wherever the ectoderm of the foetal villi comes in contact with it. Afterwards the ectoderm of the villi, always in advance of the main body, reaches and surr(5unds the dilated decidual vessels, destroys the inter\-ening tissues, and ultimately replaces the endothelial walls of the vessels, which by this time have dilated into enormous spaces. Into these spaces the ramifications of the villi project, and, as the endothelial walls are destroyed, they lie directly within the cavities of the spaces, and are surrounded on all sides by maternal blood. The most peculiar feature of this part of the placenta, when fully developed, is that the whole of the maternal portion of it, except the blood, has l)een removed and replaced by fcetal tissues, so that, although the maternal blood continues to circulate in the same spaces which it has occupied from the first, viz. the blood-sinuses in the superficial part of the stratum compactum of the maternal decidua, yet the walls of these spaces have been replaced more or less completely by foetal ectoderm, and, consequently, the spaces now lie in the midst of tlie foetal tissues. The invasion of the maternal l)y the ftetal part of the placenta proceeds as far as the basal layer, and in this region the fcetal ectoderm is directly continuous with the walls of the maternal blood-vessels at the points where they enter the sinuses. Although the invasion of the decidua basalis is so complete, some portions of the maternal tissues persist; thus the basal layer and many strands of the stratum compactum escape destruction. The latter extend from the basal layer to the outer surface of the chorion, and they are eventually converted into filirous strands, which divide the superficial part of the completed placenta into lobular areas. The completed placenta consists therefore of closely intermingled and fused Stratum compactum Stratum spongiosum Unchanged layer Decidua basalis. Maternal placenta. Layer of blood-sinuses. Modified stratum spongiosum. Unchanged layei'.