666 THE XEEVOUS SYSTEM. iuvewting the artery in the cranium. The outer division forms the lower carotid plexus (pi. caroticus internus); the inner division gives rise to the upper cavernous plexus (pi. cavernosus). Both plexuses supply offsets to the artery and its branches, and form communications with certain cranial nerves. The carotid plexus communicates by fine branches with (a) the abducent nerve, and (b) the Gasserian ganglion, and gives off .(c) the great deep petrosal and (d) the small deep petrosal nerves. The great deep petrosal nerve joins the great superficial petrosal nerve from the geniculate ganglion of the facial, upon the foramen lacerum medium. By their union the Vidian nerve is formed, which, after traversing the Vidian canal, ends in Meckel's ganglion. The small deep petrosal nerve passes to the tympanic plexus. This plexus, formed by the small deep petrosal nerve, the tympanic branch of the glosso-pha.ryngeal, a.nd a twig from the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve, is placed on the inner wall of the tympanum. It supplies the mucous lining of the tympanum and Eustachian tube; and tlie small superficial petrosal nerve passes from it to the otic ganglion. The cavernous plexus communicates with (a) the oculo-motor, and (b) the trochlear nerves, and (c) the ophthalmic division of tte trigeminal nerve ; it also (d) supplies twigs to the pituitary body, and (e) forms the sympathetic root of the ciliary ganglion. This may pass to the ganglion independently, or may lie incorporated in the loTig root of the ganglion from the nasal liranch of the ophthalmic nerve. Middle Cervical Ganglion. Central Communicating Branches. — 1. Gray rami communicantes arise from tlie ganglion for the iinterior primary divisions of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. 2. The subclavian loop (ansa Vieus- 'senii) is a loop of communication from this ganglion, which, after passing over and supplying offsets to the subclavian artery and its l^ranches, joins the inferior cervical ganglion. Peripheral Branches of Distribution.—1. Heart. —A slender middle cervical cardiac branch descends, either separately or in company with other cardiac nerves, behind the large vessels into the thorax, where it ends in the deep part of the cardiac plexus on each side. 2. Thyroid Body. — Branches extend inwards along the inferior thyroid artery to supply the thyroid body. thetic branches; Va, Pnenmogastrie When the middle ganglion is absent, the branches nerve; R L, Recurrent laryngeal .described arise from the commissural cord. nerve ; p, oupenor, and i, Interior cervical cardiac branches of vagus ; D.C.P Deep cardiac plexus ; S.C.P, INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. Superncial cardiac plexus ; A.P. P, ^S^t'™^';ZIi!:S'"^Vi-^ Central Communicating Branches.-1. Gray R.Car.P, Right, and L.Car.p, Left rami communicantes arise from this ganglion for the coronary plexuses; Art.Pul, Pui- anterior primary divisions of the seventh and eighth monary arteiy. cervica.l nerves. 2. The subclavian loop already mentioned connects the middle and inferior ganglia over the front of the subclavian artery. 3. A communication frequently occurs with the inferior laryngeal nerve. Fi<i. 478.—The Constitution of THE C.\KDIAC' Plexuses. Sy, Cervical sympathetic cord ; C.l, Superior, C.2, Middle, and C.3, In- ferior cervical ganglia; Car. 1, Superior, Car.2, Middle, and Car.3, Inferior cervical cardiac sympa-