962 THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. sides. It is enclosed in a complete capsule derived from the deep cervical fascia: embedded in this capsule, and superficial to the gland, are found a few submaxillary lymphatic glands, which are of importance owing to their connexion witli the lymphatics of the lips and of the anterior half of the tongue. In considering the relations of the ghuid, it is well to remark that there is in this region a three-sided space bounded externally hy the inner surface of the mandilile helow the mylohyoid ridge, internally and above by the mylohyoid muscle running inwards and downwards, and below by the skin and fascia jjassing from the margin of the jaw oljliquely inwards and downwards to join the side of the neck. In this s])ace the gland lies with external, internal, and inferior surfaces corresponding to the walls of the .space. The superficial or inferior surface looks downwards and outwards; it is covered by the deep cervical fascia and the platysma, and is crossed by the facial vein, whicli lies superficial to the gland, whilst the artery passes in part beneath it. The external surface rests against the inner aspect of the lower jaw (sul)maxillary fossa) for an inch and a half forward from the angle, to which latter it usually reaches behind. The deep or internal surface lies on the posterior part of the mylohyoid muscle, and liehiud this, on the hyoglossus and the posterior l)elly of the digastric with the stylohyoid; for the gland is not contained within the limits of the sul)- maxillary triangle interiorly, but passes down some little distance over the digastric muscle. From the deep surface, anterior to its middle, a narrow tongue-like deep process (Fig. 047) is continued forwards beneath the mylohyoid muscle along with the duct. The posterior end of the gland, which is its most liidky portion, either abuts against, or lies very close to, the sterno-mastoid, and is often overlapped by the lower end of the parotid gland. The facial arterj', on its way to the l:)orde^' of the mandible, lies in a groove in the upper and back part of the gland. The submaxillary or Wharton's duct leaves the deep surface of the gland about its middle, and rims forwards beneath the mylohyoid muscle with the deep process, along the upper and inner aspect of whicli it is placed (Eigs. 646 and 643;. Pursidng its course forwards beneath the floor of the mouth, on the inner side of the sublingual gland, the duct crosses the hyoglossus and the geniogiossus muscles, and finally opens on the floor of the mouth at the side of the frenulum lingu*, where its small orifice is placed on the summit of a soft papilla (caruncula sub- lingualis) close to its fellow of the opposite side. While running forward l )eneath the floor of the mouth the duct, which is about two inches long (50 mm.), is crossed on its inferior aspect by the lingual nerve near the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, that is opposite the 2nd molar tooth. The nerve at the time is arching from the posterior end of the mylo-hyoid ridge (against which it lies) inwards and forwards in order to reach the under surface of the tongue, and in this course it jjasses beneath the duct at the point indicated. As in the case of Stenson's duct, the calibre of Wharton's duct is much greater than that of the orifice by which it opens ; for this reason it may likewise be looked upon as firming, to some extent, a reser\-oir for the .saliva secreted by the gland. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries come chiefly from the facial and its submental branch : the veins are siunlarly disposed. The nerves are derived from the submaxillary ganglion (which lies aV)o\'e tlie deep prdcess of the gland), and are composed of fibres from the chorda tympani, from the lingual, and from the symjiathetic on the facial ai-tery. The lymphatics pass to the .submaxillary lymphatic glands. Sublingual Gland.—This is an elongated almbnd-shaped mass, flattened from side to side, and much wider (from altove downwards) in front than behind, which lies on the floor of the mouth l)eneath the phca su])hngualis—a ridge of the mucous memljrane produced the prominent upper I)order of the gland. It is usually from Ih to If inches (oT to 45 nnu.) in lengtli, whilst its l)ulk is aliout equal to that of two or three almonds. It is placed between the mandible externally, the geniogiossus internally, the mylohyoid muscle below, and the mucous membi^ane of the mouth al)0ve (Fig. 637). Its detailed relations are as follows :—Its outer snrfare rests against the inner aspect of the body of the mandible above the mylohj'oid ridge. Its imter surface is in contact with tlie geniogiossus and the hyoglossus muscles, as well as with Wharton's duct, which runs forwards between the gland and the uuiscles. Below, it rests on the mylohyoid, and at its posterior part on the deep ])r()ccss of the submaxillary ghuid ; whilst its upjn')-