STEUCTUKE OF THE LTVEE. 1071 the vena cava, as it leaves the liver, and immediately before it jiierees the diaphragm. The smaller branches open into it lower down. The branches of the portal differ from those of the hepatic vein in the following points:—(1) The branches of the portal vein converge towards the portal fissure; those of the hepatic veins towards the vena cava. (2) On section of the liver the portal branches are always seen to be accompanied by branches of the hepatic artery and duct, whilst those of the hepatic vein run alone ; and (3) owing to the loose wrapping of connective tissue (Glisson's capsule) which surrounds the branches of the portal vein, their walls fall away from the liver substance when empty, and collapse, whilst the hepatic veins, which are destitute of this wrapping, are closely connected to the liver substance, and consequently do not collapse so easily as the portal vessels. The lymphatics of the liver are arranged in a superficial and a deep set:—1. The superficial set lies Ijeneatli the jjeritoneuni on both («) the vi.sceral and (/>) the pari{?tal surfaces of the organ. (a) The vessels from tlie visceral surface pass chiefly to the hejjatic glands, which lie between the layers of the lesser onientmn ; l)ut some of them, from the back part of this surface on the right lobe, join the lumbar glands, and others from the back jjart of the left lobe, go to the cceliac glands. (b) The vessels from the p^metal surface pass in various directions. Those from the adjacent parts of the right and left lobes pass up. in the I'alciform ligament, and pierce the dia]:)liragm to reach the anterior mediastinal glands, and end finally in the riglit lymphatic duct. Those from the anterior part of this surface pass down to the inferior aspect, and join the hepatic glands in the lesser omentum. The lymphatics from the back of the right lobe pierce the diaphragm between the layers of the coronary ligament, and join some glands in the thorax around the upper end of the infe}-i<>r cava ; others run in the right lateral ligament, and either pierce the dia- ]ihragm and end in the anterior mediastinal glands, or, turning down, join the coeliac grouji. 2. The deep lymphatics accompany either («) the portal or {h) the hei)atic veins, (a) The former set ^^ass out through the portal fissure and join the hepatic glands, the efferent vessels of which join the coeliac glands, {h) Those which accompany the hepatic vejns pierce the diaphragm with the vena cava, and hav ing formed connexions with the grou]) of glands at its upper end, N\'itliin the thorax, turn down and join the beginning of the thoracic duct. The nerves, which are chiefly of the non-meclullated variety, are deri^'ed from the' left jjueumogastiic and the solar plexus of the syni2)athetic. The branches of the former pass from the front of the stomach up Ix-tween the layers of the lesser omentum to the liver. Those of the latter jjass from the coeliac plexus along the hepatic artery—forming the hej)atic plexus—to the portal fi.ssure, where they enter the liver with the blood-vessels. They are distributed chiefly to the walls of the vessels and of the bile-ducts. Structure of the Liver. The liver is invested by an outer serous coat (tunica serosa), already described in connexion with the peritoneum. Within this is a thin areolar coat (capsula fibrosa Glissonii) of delicate fibrous tissue, which is most evident where the serous coat is absent. In the neighbourhood of the portal fissure it is particularly abundant, and hex'e, under the name of Glisson's capsule, it surrounds the vessels entering the fissure, and accom- panies them through the portal canals in the liver substance. This coat is continuous with the fine areolar tissue which pervades the liver, surrounding its lobules and holding them together. The liver substance proper is made up of an enormous number of small lobules, y^rth to ^\th inch (1 to 2 mm.) in diameter, closely jmcked, and held together by a small amount of connective tissue. In man the lobules are not completely separated from one another all round their circumference, but coalesce in places ; the reverse is the case in certain animals. These lobules are arranged around the branches of the hepatic veins, to form the compact mass of the liver, in the following manner:— The hepatic veins radiate from the inferior vena cava, at the back of the liver, to all parts of the organ, dividing and re-dividing until the vessels are reduced to branches of a very small size, known as sublobular veins—the whole arrangement may be aptly com- pared so far to the branching of a tree (Fig. 720, A). On all sides there open into these sublobular veins numerous closely-crowded vessels — the intralobular or central veins (which, following our simile, may be compared to an enormous number of thorns grow- ing out on all sides from the sublobular twigs of the tree). On each of these little central veins there is impaled, as it were, a lobule (which is more or less like a conical bullet in shape—Purser). These little conical lobules, with their intralobular or central veins running through them, are so numerous and so closely packed together, that they give rise to the practically solid liver tissue. As regards the veins : The lobules are surrounded by the interlobular liranches of the portal vein, from which numerous twigs enter the lobule on all sides, and converging.