916 THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. /Hvoiil bone lean ligament artilage of epiglottis atty pad hyro-hyoid membrane liyroid cartilage Elevation produced by cuneiform cartilage False vocal cord Filtrum venti'iculi Elevation prod\iced by arytenoid cartilage Ijaryngeal sinus True vocal coi'd Arytenoid muscle rocessus vocalis Cricoid cartilage Cricoid cartilage superior thyroarytenoid ligament; (2) numerous glands which are chiefly aggre- gated in its middle part; and (3) a few muscle fibres. The interval between the false vocal cords is sometimes termed the false glottis (glottis spuria), and is considerably wider than the interval between the true vocal cords, which is called the true glottis (glottis vera) or rima glottidis. It follows from this that when the cavity of the larynx is examined from above the four cords are distinctly visible, but when examined from below the true vocal cords alone can be seen. The true vocal cords (plicse vocales), placed below the false cords, extend from the angle l:)etween the alfe of the thyroid cartilage in front to the vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages behind. The true vocal cord is sharp and prominent, and the mucous membrane which is stretched over it is very thin and firmly bound down to the subjacent ligament. In colour it is ])ale, almost pearly white, whilst posteriorly the point of the processus vocalis of the arytenoid, which stands out clearly in relief, presents a yellowish tinge. In cross-section the true vocal cord is prismatic in form, and its free border looks upwards as well as inwards. The true vocal cords are the agents by means of which the voice is produced. The false vocal cords are of little import- ance in this respect; indeed, they can in great part be destroyed and no appreciable difference in the voice result. Glottis vera (rima glottidis).—This name is applied to the elongated fissure l^y means of which the middle compartment of the larynx communicates with the y lower com]3artment. It is placed some- what below the middle of the laryngeal cavity, of which it constitutes the nar- rowest part. In front it corresponds to the interval between the true vocal cords; behind, it corresponds to the interval between the bases and vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages. It is composed, therefore, of two distinct parts: (I) a narrow anterior portion, between the true vocal cords, involving more than half of its length, and called the glottis vocalis (pars intermembranacea); (2) a broader, shorter portion, between the arytenoid cartilages, and termed the glottis respiratoria (pars intercartilaginea). By changes in the position of the arytenoid cartilages the form of the rima glottidis undergoes constant alterations. In ordi- nary easy breathing it is somewhat lanceo- late in outline. The glottis vocalis • , , presents under these conditions the form of an elongated triangle with the Ijase directed backwards, and corresponding to an imaginary hue drawn between the Fid. 618.— Mesial Section through Larynx, to sliow the outer wall of the riglit half. Inferior tliyro- aiytenoid ligament Fi(i. 619.—Diagram ok Rima Glottidis. A. During ordinary easy breatliing. B. Widely open.