1208 SUEFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. the lower third of this surface is an ol)lique ])roiniiieiice caused by the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first phalanx of the thumb. The flexor sheaths of the palm and of the digits are of surgical importance in consequence of their liability to suppurative inflammation. The common flexor sheath begins Ih in. above the annular ligament, under which it extends to a little below the middle of the palm. The digital flexor sheaths extend from the bases of the terminal phalanges to the leA el of tlie distal transverse crease of the palm, (jpposite the necks of the metacarpal bones, unth the exception of the sheath of the little finger, which is continuous witli the common flexor sheath of the })alm. The sheath of the flexor longus pollicis extends from the base of the terminal phalanx upwards to a point about 1 in. al)ove the annular ligament; it frequently com- municates with the commf)n flexor sheath. From this anatomical arrangement it follows that suppuration in the sheaths of the little finger and thumb is specially liable to spread u])wards into the palm, and thence underneath the annular ligament into the forearm. The pulsations of the radial artery can readily be felt in the lower third of the forearm, midway between the outer l)order of the radius and the tendon of the flexor cai'pi radialis. The course of the vessel is indicated upon the surface by a line extending from the bifurcation of the brachial in. below" the middle of the liend of the elbow) to the tubercle of the scaphoid, around which, and below the tip of the styloid process, the artery winds to the back of the radial side of the wrist; in the latter situation the vessel, after passing beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, dips into the palm through the proximal extremity of the first inter- osseous space. Incisions for opening or resecting the wrist are planned so as to avoid the \ essel. The upper third of the ulnar artery is deeply placed, and takes a cur\"ed course from the bifurcation of the brachial towards the inner part of the anterior surface of the forearm; tiie lower two-thirds of the vessel correspond to the lower two- thirds of a line drawn from the front of the internal condyle to the inner border of the pisiform bone. The course of the ulnar nerve corresponds to the whole of the above line. The median nerve in the forearm may be mapped out by a line extending from a point midway lietween the centre of tlie liend of the elbow and the internal epi- eondyle, to a point midway between the styloid processes; in the lower third of the forearm the line follows the iinier border of the tendim of the flexor carpi radialis. To evacuate pus spreading dee})ly uj) the front of the forearm, the incisions should lie made on either side of tlie line corresp(jiiding to the median nerve. The radial nerve winds to the back of the forearm round the outer border of the radius beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, at tlie junction of the middle and lower thirds of the forearm. The summit, or most distal })art of the superficial palmar arch, corresponds to the mid-point of a line extending from the middle of the lowest transverse crease of the wrist to the root of the middle finger; a line drawn from the outer border of the pisiform bone across the hook of the unciform, and thence in a curved direction downwards and outwards to this point, corresponds to the main or proximal part of the arch : the first and fourth digital branches overlie the fifth and third metacarpal [lones respecti^'ely, while the second and third overlie the fourth and third interspaces respectively. The deep arch lies almost transversely, midway between the lower border of the anterior annular ligament and the superficial arch. The radialis indicis corresponds to the radial border of the index-finger. The ulnar nerve and the commencement of its two diA'isions lie immediately to the inner side of the superficial palmar arch, so that the pisiform and the hook of the unciform are the guides to the nerve. The median nerve emerges from beneath the annular ligament opposite the inner edge of the thenar eminence, while the digital branches to the thumb follow its lower margin. Incisions for the removal of foreign bodies may therefore be made into the thenar with greater fieedom than into the hypo-tlienar eminence. Incisions to evacuate deep-seated pus in the palm may be made in one or more of the following situations : (1) over the lower two-third.s of the second metacari);il bone ; (2)