THE DEEP CONNEXIONS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 479 round bundle of longitudinal filtres which forms a ver)^ conspicuous object in trans- verse sections through the medulla. It begins at the upper Ihnit of the medulla, and can be traced downwards through its whole length. Its precise point of termination is not known, but it is believed that it is carried for some distance downwards into the upper part of the cord, viz. to the level of the fourth cervical nerve, according to Kiilliker. The relations of the fasciculus solitarius are not the same in all parts of its course. It lies immediately to the outer side of the vago-glosso-pharyngeal nucleus; but whereas in the upper part of the medulla it is situated somewhat on the ventral si'de of that nucleus, in the lower closed part of the medulla it is placed on its doi'sal aspect. Throughout its entire length it is inti- mately associated with a column of gelatinous gray substance which consti- tutes the nucleus of ter- mination, in which its fibres end. When traced from above downwards, the solitary tract is ob- served to become gradu- ally smaller from the loss of fibres which it thus sustains. The great bulk of the solitary tract is formed of fibres derived from the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve; only a few of the afferent fibres of the vagus enter it. As the fibres of the two nerves join the tract they im- mediately turn down- wards, and at different levels come to an end in the associated gelatinous gray nucleus. As the root-bundles of the vagus and the glosso- Fia. .356.—Diagram, showing the brain connexions of the vagus, glosso- phai'yno'eal nerves traverse pharyngeal, auditory, facial, abducent, and trigeminal nerves (founded the substance of the on a somewhat similar diagram by Obersteiner). medulla in a backward and inward direction to reach the fasciculus solitarius and the nucleus of termination, they pass through the spinal root of the trigeminal nerve and the substantia gelatinosa Rolandi associated with it. The term ascending root is sometimes applied to the fasciculus solitarius; but as this conveys an altogether false conception of its character, it should be discarded. The axons of the nucleus of termination and of the nucleus of the fasciculus solitarius form central connexions with other parts of the brain, but these have not as yet been completely elucidated. The nucleus ambiguus (Figs. 341, p. 458, and 343, p. 460) is the nucleus of origin of the motor or efferent fibres which join the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. The cells which compose it are large, multipolar, and similar in every respect to the large cells in the ventral horn of gray matter of the spinal cord. These cells are arranged in a slender column which is best developed in the upper open part of the medulla. Here the nucleus can easily be detected in transverse sections as a small area of compact gray matter which lies in the formatio reticularis grisea, midway between the dorsal accessory olive and the sub- stantia gelatinosa Rolandi. It therefore lies more deeply in the substance of the