1161 THE CEANIUM. Two inches vertically above the pre-auricular point is the lower end of the fissure of Rolando. Two fingers'-breadth (1^^ in.) vertically above the middle of the zygomatic arch is the pterion (spheno-parietal suture), a point which cannot be felt, but which is nevertheless of topographical importance, as it overlies the Sylvian point (the point where the Sylvian fissure breaks up into its three branches) and the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery. A point three iingers'-l-^readth vertically above the middle of the zygomatic arch, on the left side, will mark the position of tlie centre of Broca's convolution (posterior extremity of the left inferior frontal convolution). The frontal eminence (better marked in the child) overlies the middle frontal convolution. The parietal eminence, which varies consideral^ly in the definiteness with whiclr it can be recognised, overlies the termination of the posterior hori- zontal limb of tlie fissure of Sylvius, and therefore also the supra-marginal convolution, which is named l)y Turner the convolution of th,e parietal eminence. The part of the temporal crest which intervenes between the external angular process and the coronal suture lies a little above the level of the inferior frontal sulcus. The highest part of the temporal crest crosses the Eolandic area at the junction of its middle and lower thirds, that is to say, at the junction of the motor areas for the arm and face. In the child, the temporal muscle, which is relatively much smaller than in the adult, reaches only a short distance above the squamous suture, and, therefore, only as far as the level of the lower end of the fissure of Eolando. The thickness of the skull-cap varies at different parts and in different individuals. The inner table is only half the thickness of the outer table, but both possess the same degree of elas- ticity. When the vault is fractured from direct violence, the inner table is more extensively fissured than the outer table because the elements of the latter are compressed, while those of the former are stretched apart. The weak areas at the base of the skull through which fractures are liable to extend are: in the anterior cranial fossa, the orljital plates of the frontal bone and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid ; in the middle cranial fossa, the region of the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone, and of the foramen ovale of the sphenoid ; in the posterior fossa, the cerebellar fossaj of the occipital bone. The strong petrous temporal is weakened by the tympanic cavitj- and liy the deej) jugular fossa. Cranio-Cerebral Topography.—Of the many methods wliich • have been devised for mapping out the relations of the cranial contents to the scalp, that introduced by Professor Chiene is, probably, the most useful from a clinical point of view; no figures or angles have to be remembered, and the primary surface lines are drawn from bony points which are not variable, whilst the secondary lines are drawn, for the most part, between mid-points of the primary lines. The method is as follows (Figs. 792 and 793):— " The head being shaved, find in the mesial line of the skull between the glabella (G) and the external occipital protuberance (0) the following points:— " First, the mid-point (M); second, the three-quarter point (T); third, the seren- eighth point (S). " Find also the external angular process (E), and the root of the zygoma, (pre- auricular point) (P), immediately above and in front of the external auditory meatus. Having found these five points, join EP, PS, and ET. Bisect EP and PS at N and E. Join MN and ME. Bisect also AB at C, and draw CD parallel to AM." The line MA corresponds to the superior and inferior precentral sulci, and may therefore be termed the fre-centrcd line. The origins of the superior and inferior frontal sulci may be indicated by trisecting MA at the points K and L, the latter point being at the level of the temporal crest. The line ET, termed the oblique or Sylvian line, intersects the pre-central line at the point A, which corresponds to the Sylvian point of the fissure of Sylvius and to the anterior division of the middle meningeal artery. AC overlies the posterior horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, whicli terminates at the level of the temporal crest, in the lower part of the triangle HCB. This triangle contains the parietal eminence, and may, therefore, be termed the supra-margined triangle. The termination of the Sylvian line, at the three-quarter sagittal point T, overlies the parieto-occipital fissure. By joining TE, EO, a triangle is mapped out which delimits the outer surface