709 EUSTACHIAN TUBE. auditivse, having a length of about one inch; and (b) a postero-external, osseous part, the pars ossea tubae auditivas, measuring half an inch in length. The two portions are not in the same plane, the cartilaginous part inclining downwards a little more than the osseous portion and forming, with it, a wide angle. Its lumen is widest at the ostium pharyngeum, narrowest at the junction of the bony and cartilaginous portions, forming here the isthmus, and again expanding towards the tympanic cavity; hence it presents, on longitudinal section, somewhat the appearance of an hour-glass. The pars ossea occupies the angle between the squamous and petrous parts of the temporal bone, and is separated by the processus cochleariformis from the canal containing the tensor tympani muscle, whilst imme- diately to its inner side is the carotid canal. The pars cartilaginea consists partly of cartilage and partly of fibrous membrane. The cartilage (cartilago tubte auditivse) presents the form of an elongated triangular plate, of which the apex is firmly attached to the inner end of the pars ossea, while the base is free and forms a projection on the upper and posterior aspects of the pharyngeal orifice. The upper edge of this cartilaginous plate is bent outwards in the form of a hook, and so produces a furrow open below and externally, the furrow being converted into a complete canal by the fibrous part of the tube. On transverse section (Fig. 518) the cartilage presents two lamina;, continuous with each other superiorly: (a) lamina medialis, broad and thick; and (&) lamina lateralis, thin and hook-shaped. At the ostium pharyngeum the lamina medialis forms the entire inner wall of the tube, but it gradually diminishes in breadth on approaching the isthmus tubse. Fissures are often seen in the cartilage; sometimes it is completely separated into several pieces, or accessory islands may be observed in the roof, floor, or membranous part. The upper and inner aspects of the cartilage are firmly fixed to the base of the skull, where it lies in a groove, the sulcus tubse auditivse, situated between the great wing of the sphenoid and the petrous- temporal. Extending forwards on to the root of the pterygoid process this sulcus ends at a projection, the processus tubarius, on the middle of the internal pterygoid plate. The tensor palati muscle lies to the outer side of the tube and receives some fibres of origin from its lamina lateralis ; these fibres constitute the dilator tubae muscle of Rlidinger. To the inner side of the cartilage are found the levator palati and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The membranous part (lamina membranacea) consists of a strong fibrous membrane, stretching between the two edges of the cartilage, and so completing the under and outer parts of the canal. Thin above, it becomes thickened below and forms the fascia salpingo-pharyngea of Troltsch, which gives origin to some of the fibres of the tensor palati muscle. Between this fascia and the mucous lining of the tube is a layer of adipose tissue. The pharyngeal orifice of the Eustachian tube (ostium pharyngeum tubce), tri- angular or oval in shape, is situated on the lateral wall of the naso-pharynx, the centre of the opening being on a level with the posterior end of the inferior tur- binated bone. It is bounded above and behind by a pad or cushion produced by the inner end of the cartilage, which here abuts against the mucous membrane. The posterior part of this cushion is very prominent and forms the anterior boundary of the fossa of Rosenmiiller. Prolonged downwards from it is an elevation of the mucous membrane, termed the plica salpingo-pharyngea, whicli covers the small salpingo-pharyngeus muscle. From the upper part of the cushion an indis- tinct fold, the plica salpingo-palatina, extends to the palate.