THE CARPUS. 201 Os magnum ir. Metacarpal Scaphoid Tiappzium Fig. 146.—The Right Trapezoid. facets by two ridges—that towards the radial side is for the base of the second metacarpal; the middle facet is for the third metacarpal; whilst the innermost facet of the three, not always present, very small and placed near the dorsal side of the bone, is for the fourth metacarpal. The outer Side of the body has an articular surface for the trapezoid, not infrequently separated from the scaphoid surface on the head by a rough line, to which the interosseous ligament connecting it with the scaphoid is attached. The inner side of the Ijody has an elongated articular surface, usually deeply notched in front, or it may be divided anteriorly into a small circular area near the dorsal edge ; and a larger posterior part. This latter articulates either singly or doubly with the unciform, the in- terosseous ligament whicli unites the two bones being attached either to the notch or to the sur- face separating the two articular facets. The dorsal surface is rough for ligaments ; it is somewhat constricted below the head, the articular surface of which sweeps rounds its upper border. The OS magnum articulates with seven l)()nes—the unciform, tlie semilunar, the scaphoid, the trapezoid, and the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones; occasion- IV. Metacarpal,^ \/^0l^'^ II. Metacarpal ally the fourth metacarpal does not articulate with the magnum. Unciform Bone (os hamatum).—The unciform can readily be distin- guished by the hook-like process (hamulus) which pro- jects from the lower and inner aspect of its anterior surface. To this is attached the anterior annular liga- ment as well as some of the fibres of origin of the short muscles of the little finger. The ulnar side of the unci- form process is sometimes grooved by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve (Ander- son, W., " Proc. Anat. Soc." Journ. Anat. and Physiol. vol. xxviii. p. 11). The palmar surface, rough for ligaments, is somewhat tri- angular in shape. Superiorly and internally there is an elongated articular surface for the cuneiform, convex above and concave below. The oiUer aspect of the bone is provided with a plane elongated facet, occasionally divided into two (see above) for articulation with the os magnum. Wliere the superior and external surfaces in. Metacarpal III. Metacarpal -Scaphoid Unciform- Fig. 147.—The Right Os Magndm.