THE STEENUM. 91 first cervical, lower sacral, and all the coccygeal vertebrae, and display characteristic differences in the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar regions, which have been already described. The articular processes (zygapophyses) are secondary devehjijments, and displaj^ great diversity of form, deter- mined by their functional requirements. It is noteworthy that, in the case of the upper two cervical vertebriB, they are so disposed as to lie in front of the foramina of exit of the up^^er two spinal nerves, and by this arrangement the weight of the head is transmitted to the solid column formed by the vertebral )>odies, and not on to the series of neural arches. It is in regard to the homology of the transverse processes, so called, that most difiiculty arises. In the thoracic region they can best be studied in their simi^lest form ; here the ribs—which Gegenbauer regards as a differentiation from the inferior or haemal arches, in opposition to the vie-w advanced by others that they are a secondary development from the filarous intermuscular septa—articulate with the transverse processes and bodies of the thoracic vertebrte through the agency of the tubercular (diapophysi-s) and capitular (parapopliysis) processes res2:)ectively, the latter being placed, strictly speaking, on the neural arch behind the line of the neuro-central synchondrosis. An interval is thus left between the neck of the rib and the front of the transverse process ; this forms an arterial j^assage which corresponds to the vertebrarterial canal in the transverse jDrocesses of the cervical vertebrte, the anterior bar of which is homologous with the head and tubercle of the thoracic rib, whilst the posterior part lies in series with the thoracic transverse jDrocess. These homologies are further emphasised by the fact that in the case of the seventh cervical vertebra the anterior limb of the so-called transverse process is developed from an iridependent ossific centre, which occasionally persists in an independent form as a cervical rib. In the lumbar region the external or transverse process is serially homologous with the thoracic ribs, though here, owing to the coalescence of the contiguous parts, there is no arterial channel between the rib element and the true transverse process, which is represented by the accessory processes (anapophysis), placed poi^teriorly at the root of the so-called transverse process of human anatomy. Support is givefi to this view by the presence of a distinct costal element in connexion with the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, which accounts for the occasional formation of a supernumerary rib'in this region. In the sacrum the lateral mass of the bone is made up of combined transverse and costal elements, with no intervening arterial channel. In the case of the upjjer three sacral segments the costal elements are largely developed, assist in sujiporting the ilia, and are called the true sacral vertebra;; whilst the lower sacral segments, which are not in contact with the ilia, are referred to as the pseudo-sacral vertelji fe. The anterior arch of the atlas vertebra is, according to Froriep, developed from a hypochordal strip of cartilage (hypochordal spange). THE STERNUM. The sternum or breast bone occupies the middle of the upper part of the thoracic wall anteriorly. It is connected laterally with the cartilages of the first seven ribs, and supports, superiorly, the clavicles. It consists of three parts, named respectively the manubrium or presternum; the body (corpus sterni), gladiolus or mesosternum; and the ensiform or xiphoid cartilage (processus xiphoideus) or the metasternum. Of these the body is formed by the fusion in early life of four segments or sternebrte. The manubrium, usually separate throughout life from the rest of the bone, though occasionally fused with it, is of a flattened triangular form. The anterior surface, slightly saddle-shaped, affords attachment to the fibres of the pectoralis major and sterno-mastoid muscles. It is bounded above by a thick border, the lateral parts of which are hollowed out obliquely to form the facets (incisime claviculares) for the sternal ends of the clavicles; around the facets, which have an upward, outward, and slightly backward direction, the bone is faintly lipped. In the interval between these two facets there is a slight notch (incisura jugularis) which forms the floor of the characteristic hollow seen at the root of the neck anteriorly —the suprasternal notch, or pit of the neck. The lateral borders are excavated immediately below the clavicular facets for the reception of the cartilages of the first ribs. Below this, the margin of the bone slopes inwards, and is sharp, except inferiorly, where it presents a facet which supports a part of the second costal cartilage. Around this the bone is usually lipped anteriorly. The upper angles correspond to the ridge separating the clavicular facets from the first costal facets; whilst the lower angle, which may be regarded as cut across transversely, forms the surface which, is united by cartilage to the body of the sternum. The anterior edge of this surface is usually prominent. The posterior aspect of the manubrium is smoother than the anterior, is pierced by numerous foramina, and is slightly concave from side to side and above downwards. Here are attached some of the fibres of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles.