MUSCLES ON THE BACK OF THE FOEEAEM. 335 Muscles. Nerves. Origin. C. Supinators and Extensors. Bracliio-radialis \ Extensor carpi radialis longior / Extensor carpi radialis brevior ^ Extensor communis digitorum ' 1^ Extensor minimi digiti j Extensor carpi ulnaris I Anconeus ...... Supinator, radii brevis Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis Extensor brevis pollicis !- Extensor longus pollicis Extensor indicia Musculo-spiral Posterior interosseous "| (musculo-spiral) J Musculo-spiral Posterior interosseous . C. 5. 6. C. 6. 7. C. 6. 7. G. 6. 7. 8. C. 7. 8. C. 6. C. 6. 7. 8. Action of the Muscles of the Forearm and Hand. The muscles of tlie forearm and liand are concerned in tlie movements of the elbow, wrist, and joints of the fingers. In the majority of cases the muscles act upon more than one joint. 1. Action on the Elbow Joint.—It has been shown already (p. 330) that flexion and ex- tension of the elbow are assisted hy certain of these muscles. The flexor muscles are the pronator radii teres, and the flexor muscles of the wrist and fingers, along with tlie brachio-radialis and extensors of the wrist and fingers (during pronation). The extensors are the supinator brevis and anconeus, and the extensor muscles of the wrist and fingers (during supination). 2. Pronation and supination of the hand are performed by special muscles, aided by muscles which act also upon other joints. Tlie brachio-radialis assists in flexion and pronation on the one hand, and in extension and supination on the other hand. Pronation. Supination. Pronator radii teres Pronator quadratus Brachio-radialis ' Flexor carpi radialis Weight of the limb Supinator radii brevis Biceps Brachio-radialis Extensors of thumb and fingers Weight of the limb 3. Action on the Wrist Joint.—The movements at the wrist joint are flexion and extension, abduction and adduction. The following muscles produce these movements:— a. Flexion and Extension. b. Adduction and Abduction. Flexor carpi radialis Palmaris longus Flexor car2)i ulnaris Long flexors of thumb and fingers Extensors of the wrist Extensors of thumb and fingers Flexor carpi ulnaris Extensor carpi ulnaris Flexor carpi radialis Extensors of wrist Extensors of thumb 4. Movements of the Fingers.—Two separate series of movements occur in relation to the articulations of the fingers : flexion and extension (at the metacarpo-phalangeal and inter- phalangeal joints), and abduction and adduction (only at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints). The movements and the muscles concerned are given in the following table :— a. Flexion and Extension. Flexor sublimis digitorum Flexor profundus digitorum Lumbricales 1 (acting on the metacarpo- Interossei / phalangeal articulations) Flexor brevis minimi digiti Exteiisor communis digitorum Extensor indicis Extensor minimi digiti Lumbricales \{a,cting on the inter-phal- Interossei / angeal articulations)