819 THE POPLITEAL AETEEY. the internal head of the gastrocnemius, to the inner side of the knee, where it turns forwards between the bone and the internal lateral ligament, and terminates anteriorly by anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, with the recurrent branch of the anterior tit)ial artery, and with the superior internal articular artery. (e) The azygos articular artery (a. genu media) passes directly forwards from the front of the popliteal artery, pierces Seiiiiteiidinosus the central part of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and enters the intercondylar space. It supplies branches to the crucial ligaments and to the synovial membrane, and is accompanied by the azygos articular brandi of the internal popliteal nerve, and sometimes by the genicular branch of the obturator nerve. (3) Cutaneous branches are distributed to the skin over the popliteal space. One of these, the superficial spiral artery, descends in the middle line of the back of the calf along with the external saphenous nerve. The Posterior Tibial Artery. The posterior tibial artery (a. tibialis posterior), the larger of the two terminal Ijranches of the popliteal, comineuces at the lower border of the pop- liteus and terminates midway between the tip of the inner malleolus and the most pro- minent part of the heel, at the lower border of the internal annular hgament. It ends by dividing into the internal and the extei-nal plantar arteries, which pass onwards to the sole of the foot. The artery runs downwards and inwards on the back of the leg between the superficial and deep layers of muscles, and covered by the deep inter- muscular fascia which inter- venes between them. Semimeiiibrauosiis Superior internal articular artery^ MviHCular artery Inferior internal articular artery^ Popliteus Soleus Posterior tibial artery Nutrient artery-- Posterior tibial artery' Flexor longus dis'itoruni Coumiunicatin artery Calcaneaii artery- Biceps Sii]iiTiiii' external ai'ticiilar artery Muscular artery Popliteal artery Superior external articular artery Anterior tibial artei'y Jl iiscular artery Flexorlongus liallucis Tibialis posticus Peroneal artery Peroneus longus Peroneus brevis " Flexor longus liallucis Posterior peroneal artery FiCi. 576.- -The Popliteal and Posterior Tibial Arteries AND their Branches. Relations.—Anterior.—It is in contact in front, and from above downwards, with the tibi- alis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, the posterior surface of the tibia, and the posterior ligajuent of the ankle- joint. Posterior.—The artery is crossed about an inch and a-half below its origin by the posterior tibial nerve. Elsewhere it is in contact with the intermuscular fascia, which binds down the deep layer of muscles. More superiicially the upper half of the artery is covered by the fleshy parts of the soleus and gastrocnemius muscles, between which is the plantaris ; the lower half of the artery is much nearer the surface, and is only covered by