TEXT-BOOK OF ANATOMY. 1 ♦ INTRODUCTION. Anatomy is a comprehensive term, which includes several closely related branches of study. Primarily it is employed to indicate the study of the several parts which build up the body, and the relationship which these present to each other. But during the period of its existence the individual exhibits many structural changes: its structure is not the same at all stages of its life. The ovum or starting-point of every individual is very different from the finished organism as represented by the adult, and the series of changes through which the organism passes until its structure is perfected and full growth is attained constitute the study of development. The general term " development" includes not only the various and striking structural changes which occur during the intrauterine life of the individual, to the study of which the term embryology is more specially applied, but also many growth processes which occur after birth, such as the later stages in the ossification and growth of the bones, the eruption of the two series of teeth, the adjustment of the vascular system to its new requirements, etc. The actual obser- vation of the processes by which the parts of the body are gradually formed, and of the structural arrangements by means of which a temporary connection is estab- lished between the ovum and the mother, through which an interchange of nutritive and other matters between'the two takes place, renders embryology one of the most interesting of all the departments of anatomy. The term ontogeny is also used to denote the development of the individual. There is, however, another form of development, slower, but just as certain in its processes, which affects not only the individual, but every member of the animal group collectively to which it belongs. The theory of descent or evolution leads us to believe that between man of the present day and his remote ancestors there is a wide structural gap, which, if the geological record were perfect, would be seen to be completely occupied by long-lost intermediate forms. In the process of evolution, therefore, structural changes have gradually taken place, which have modified the entire race. A more or less close or remote blood-relationship links together all the members of the animal kingdom. These evolutionary phases constitute the ancestral history or phylogeny of the individual. Ontogeny and phylogeny are intertwined in a remarkable manner, and present certain extraordinary relationships. In other words, the ancestral evolutionary development appears to be so stamped upon an individual that it repeats certain of the phylogenetic stages with more or less clearness during the process of its own individual development. Thus at an early period in the embryology of man we recognise evanescent gill-slits comparable with those of a fish, whilst a study of the development of his heart shows that it passes