OSTEOLOGY. 94 extremities of the first eight costal arches. In some rare cases only six pairs of ribs articulate by means of their costal cartilages with the sternum. Occasionally the ^jresternum supports the first three ribs; in other words, the manubrium has absorbed the highest segment of the body. Keith has pointed out that this is the condition most commonly met with in the Gibbon, and regards its occurrence in man as a reversion to the simian type. As far as is at present known, its occurrence seems more common in tlie lower races. Through errors of development the sternum may be fissured throughout, due to failure of fusion of tlie cartilaginous hemisterna. The two ossified halves are usually widely separated above, but united together Ijelow by an arthrodial joint. The heart and pericardium are thus uncovered by the bone. Occasionally this condition is associated with ectopia cordis, under Tubercle lb-costal groove which circumstances life is rendered impossible. Tlirough defects in ossi- fication tlie mesosternum may be j^ierced by a hole, usually in its lower part, or through failure of fusion of the lateral cen- tres one or more of the segments of the body may be divided longitudinally. Occasionally small ossicles are found in tlie ligaments of the sterno-clavicular articulation. These are the so-called episterual bones, the morphological signifiance of wliich, however, has not yet been satisfactorily determined. They are by some regarded as the homologues of tlie interclavicle or episternal bone of monotremes. THE RIBS. The ribs (cost8e),of which there are twelve pairs, form a series of curved osseous bands which support the thoracic wall; posteriorly they articulate with the dorsal or thoracic vertebne, anteriorly eacli rib is provided with a costal cartilage. The first seven ribs articulate with the sternum by means of their cartilages, and are termed the true (costJe verse) or vertebro-sternal ribs. The lower five ribs are not so supported, and are described as the false ribs (costse spurite). Of these the eighth, ninth, and tenth are united by their cartilages to the cartilage of the seventh rib, and are called the vertebro-chondral ribs, wdiilst the last two ribs are free at their anterior extremities, and are named the floating oi vertebral ribs. A typical rib consists of a head (capitulum cost;e), a neck (collum costte), a tubercle (tuberculum costte), and a shaft (corpus cost;e), on which, near its posterior end, is the angle (angulus costte). The head, placed on the posterior or vertebral end of the bone, is somewhat expanded. Internally its articular surface is wedge-shaped and divided into two parts, an upper and lower, by a ridge or crest (crista capituli), to which the inter-articular ligament is attached. Of these two facets the lower is usually the larger, and articulates with the upper facet on the body of the vertebra in numerical correspondence with it, whilst the upper facet is for the corresponding area on the lower part of the body of the vertebra above. The head is supported by a more or less constricted bar of bone, the neck. This becomes continuous with the shaft externally, at which point there is a well-marked tubercle on its posterior surface. The anterior surface of the neck is smooth; its posterior aspect is rough, and pierced by numerous small holes for vessels. Here is attached the middle costo-transverse ligament. Not uncommonly the upper border of tlie neck is lipped and ridged (crista colli costaa), and ahbrds attachment to the anterior costo-transverse ligament. Fig. 72.—Fifth Right Rib AS SEEN KKOJI BeLOW.