THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 910 broader. The inferior hurdcr of the cricoid iw uearly liorizoutal, idUiough it I'requeutly preseuts a median projection in front, and a lateral pr(jjection on either side. It is joined to the first ring of the trachea by an intervening elastic membrane. On the outer surfuve of the cricoid cartilage, at the place where the anterior arch joins the posterior lamina, a vertical ridge descends from the arytenoid articniar facet. On this, a short distance from the lower border of the cartilage, a prominent circular articular facet is visible for articulation with the surf a re 01 Hyoid bniie Cartiliiyo tritioi-a 'I'hyro-epiglottideaii ligament Superior cornu of lliyroiil cartilage ('artilage of Sautoriii Arytenoid cartilage Muscular ))rocess of nrytHuoid cartilagi' Inferior coruu of thyroid cartilage inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage (Fig. 615, p. 91o). The innrr the cricoid cartilage is smooth, and is lined by mucous membrane. The narrow band-like part of the anterior arch of the cricoid cartilage lies below the lower border of the thyroid cartilage, whilst the posterior lamina is received into the interval between the posterior portions of the ahe of the thyroid cartilage. Arytenoid. Cartilages (cartilagines arytienoideie).—The arytenoid cartilages are placed one on either side of the mesial plane, and rest upon the upper border of the posterior lamina of tlie cricoid cartilage, in the interval between the posterior portions of the alae of the thyroid cartilage. They pre- sent a somewhat pyramidal i'orm. The pointed apex or summit of each is directed upwards, and at the same time curves backwards and inwards. It supports the corniculum laryngis. Of the three surfaces, one looks directly inwards towards the cor- respoikliug surface of the op})Osite cartilage, from which it is separated by a narrow interval; another looks backwards; whilst the third is directed outvv'ards and forwards. The internal surface, wliich is the smallest of the tliree, is triangular in outline. It is narrow, vertical, and even, and is clothed by the lining mucous membrane of the larynx. The posterior surface is smooth and concave from above downwards; it lodges and gives attachment to the aryteuoideus transversus muscle. The antero- external surface is the most exten- sive of the three. Its middle part is marked by a deep depression in which is lodged a mass of mucous glands. Upon this surface of the arytenoid cartilage tlie powerful thyro-arytenoid muscle is inserted, whilst a small tubercle a short distance above the base gives attacli- ment to the superior tltyro-arytenoid ligament—the feeble supporting ligament of the false vocal cord. The three surfaces of the arytenoid cartilage are' separated from each other by an anterior, a posterior, and an external border. The external border is the longest, and it pursues, as it is traced from tlie apex to the base, a sinuous course. Reacliing the base of the cartilage, it is prolonged outwards and backwards in the form of a stout prominent angle or process, termed the processus muscularis. Into the front of this process is inserted the crico- arytenoideus lateralis muscle; whilst into its posterior aspect the crico-arytenoideus posticus muscle is inserted. A small nodide of yellow elastic cartilage, called the sesamoid cartilage, is frequently found on the external border of the arytenoid cartilage, where it is lield in position by the investing perichondrium. Tlie anterior border of the arytenoid is vertical, and at the base of the cartilage is prolonged horizontally forwards intf) a sharp-pointed process called the processus Fic 614.—Cartilages and Lkiamf.nt.s ok IjAkvn.x, as seen from belihui.