324 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. Fig. 240. -Section across the Forearm in the Middle Third. pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, and flexor subliniis digitoruni. Tlie pronator radii teres (ni. pronator teres) is the most external and sliortest muscle of this group. It has a double origin: (1) a superficial head, the main origin, from the common tendon from the internal con- dyle of the humerus, i'rom the fascia over it, and from an intermuscular septum Ijetween it and tlie flexor carpi radi- alis ; (2) a deep head, a slender slip from the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna, which joins the superficial origin of the muscle on its deep surface. The median nerve separates the two heads from one another. The mus- cle is directed downwards and outwards to be inserted into an oval impression on the middle of the outer surface of the radius. The muscle forms the inner boundary of the hollow of the elbow. It is superficially placed, except near its in- sertion, where it is covered by the brachio-radialis muscle and by the radial vessels and ner'S'e. The flexor carpi I'adialis is on its inner side. The muscle conceals the ulnar and radial origins of the flexor sublimis digitorum, and the median nerve and ulnar artery, which are separated from one another by the deep head of oiigin. The flexor carpi radialis muscle has a single origin from the common tendon from the internal condyle, from the fascia over it, and from the inter- muscular septa on either side. Its fleshy belly gives place to a strong round tendon in the lower half of the forearm, which, at the wrist, enters the hand in a special compartment beneath the anterior annular ligament, and after occupying the groove on the trapezium, is inserted into the upper ends of the second ■ and third metacarpal bones on their anterior surfaces. The flexor carpi radialis is superficial except near its insertion. Its fleshy belly in the upper half of the arm lies between the pronator radii teres and the palmaris longus, and conceals the flexor subUmis digitorum. Its tendon in the lower half of the arm can be felt beneath the skin, on the outer side of the palmaris longus tendon. It is an important guide to the radial vessels which are placed in the hollow external to it. After passing beneath the anterior annular ligament the tendon is concealed by the origins of the short muscles of the thumb. Besides the synovial bursa enveloping the tendon beneath the annular ligament, another is found beneath the tendons of insertion into the metacarpus. The palmaris longus arises also by a single head of origin from the common flexor tendon from the internal condyle, from the fascia over it, and from inter- muscular septa on either side. It forms a short fusiform muscle, which ends in the middle of the forearm in a long flat tendon. This pierces the deep fascia above the wrist, and passing over the anterior annular ligament, is inserted (1) into the surface of the anterior annular ligament, and (2) into the apex of the thick central portion of the palmar fascia. The palmaris longus is the smallest muscle of the forearm. It is placed between PRciNATOR EADii TERES (insertion); B, Flexor carpi radialis ; C, Flexor sublimis digitorum ; D, Palmaris lonous ; E, Flexor carpi ULNARIS; F, Flexor profundus digitorum ; G, Extensor carpi ulnaris ; H, Extensor losgus pollicis ; I, Extensor communis DIGITORUM ; J, Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; K, Extensor carpi radialis brevior ; L, Extensor carpi radialis longior ; M, Brachio-radialis. a, Radins ; h. Interosseous membrane; c, Ulna. 1, Radial nerve ; 2, Radial Artery ; 3, Anterior interosseous artery ; 4, Anterior interosseous nerve (underneath flexor lonijus pollicis); 5, Median nerve ; 6, Ulnar artery ; 7, Ulnar nerve ; 8, Posterior inter- osseous artery ; 9, Posterior inter6sseous nerve.