5^50 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. It is termed the genu. The recurved lower part of the genu is separated from the part of the corpus callosum, which lies above, by an interval. It rapidly thins as it passes backwards and receives the name of the rostrum. The fine terminal edge of the rostrum becomes connected with the^lamina cinerea. The gyrus supraeallo.sus, with its contained medial and lateral longitudinal strife, -when traced backwards, is seen to turn round the spleninm and become continuous witli the gyrus dentatus. In front the mesial striit?, with the associated gray matter, are carried round the genu and then backwards on the under surface of the rostrum. As they turn I'ound the genu they diverge from each other, and are termed the gyri geniculi. Reaching the liinder edge of the rostrum, eacli gyrus geniculus runs into the gyrus subcallosus—a narrow cortical strip on the mesial surface of tlie liemisphere, which runs downwards immediately in front of the lamina cinerea to the locus perforatus anticus. The gyrus siilicallosus is often called the peduncle of the cori)us callosum, and tlie fibres of tlie stria which it contains proceed backwards and outwards along the posterior limit of the anterior perforated spot to the anterior extrenuty of the temporal lol)e. Dr. Elliot Smith lias shown tliat these parts hf\xc an important morphological significance. The under surface of the corpus callosum on either si^e of the mesial plane is for the most part free, and, lined by ependyma, it forms the roof of the anterior horn and body of the lateral ventricle. In the mesial plane, however, it is attached to subjacent parts, viz. to the septum lucidum in front and to the body of the fornix behind. The transverse lil)res of the corpus callosum, as they enter the white medullary centre of the cerebral hemisphere, radiate from each other so as to reach every part of the cerebral cortex. This radiation is termed the radiatio corporis callosi and the fibres which compose it intersect the fibres which form the corona radiata, or, in other words, the fibres which extend between the internal capsule and the cerebral cortex (Figs. 375, p. 505; and 40.'>, p. 540). The more anterior of the fibres which compose the genu of the corpus callosum sweep forwards in a series of curves into the prefrontal region of the hemisphere. A large part of the splenium, forming a soUd iDundle termed the forceps major, bends suddenly and abruptly backwards into the occipital lobe (Fig. 398, p. 536). Fibres from the body and upper part of the splenium, curving round the lateral ventricle, form a very definite stratum, called the tapetum. This is a thin layer in the medullary centre of the hemisphere, which constitutes the immediate roof and outer wall of the posterior horn and the outer wall of the hinder part of the descending horn of the lateral ventricle. In coronal sections through the occipital and hinder temporal regions the tapetum stands out very distinctly (Figs. 391, p. 527; 397, p. 535 ; and 400, p. 538). Fornix.—The fornix is an arched bilateral structure composed, for the most part, of longitudinally-directed fibres. In its intermediate part its two lateral halves are joined together in the mesial plane, and form what is called the body of the fornix; but in front and behind they are quite separate, and constitute the anterior and posterior pillars of the fornix. The body of the fornix is triangular in form. In front, wliere it is continuous with the anterior pillars, it is narrow; whilst behind it broadens out, becomes flattened, and is finally prolonged into the posterior pillars. The upper surface of the body of the fornix is in contact with the under surface of the hinder part of the body of the corpus callosum, and posteriorly is adherent to it. In front of this, and in the mesial plane, it is attached to the Monro septum lucidum. Beyond these attachments, on Anterior ;/( V| ^acli sidc, the uppcr surface of the Iwdy of the commissure J/ "■"""jV^"^'',.,, fornix forms a part of the floor of the lateral Kl)^,^^^ ventricle and is clothed by the lining ependyma. ^-^j^^^^j^^"^"^ It presents a sharp lateral edge or margin, from vmder which the choroid plexus projects into the ^ „ cavity of the lateral ventricle and with which rii;. 39.3.—Diagh.vm.matic Pkofii.k View ,i •,, i- i i i • , x-i i. i OF THE Fornix, the epithelial layer which covers tliat plexus is continuous. The lower surface of the body of the fornix rests upon the velum interpositum, which separates it from the roof of the third ventricle and the upper surface of the optic thalami. It is not at all an uncommon occurrence to find the two lateral portions of the body of the fornix of unequal size (Fig. 396, p. 534).