739 THE HEART. neighbouring structures, the heart lies in the middle mediastinum, and rests below on the diaphragm. Its long axis, from base to apex, runs obliquely from behind forwards, downwards, and to the left. The iase (basis cordis), formed entirely by the auricles, and almost entirely by the left auricle, is directed upwards, backwards, and to the right. It lies in front of the descending thoracic aorta, the cesophagus, and the lower right pulmonary vein, which separate it from the bodies of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth dorsal vertebrae. On the whole the base is somewhat flattened, and it is irregularly quadrilateral in form. It presents the orifices of the superior and inferior venae cavae and the four puhnonary veins. The opening of the superior vena cava is situated at the upper right angle, that of the inferior cava occupies the lower angle on the right side; Ligameiitum arteriosum Aorta Coronary sinus Fig. 545.—The Base and Inferior Surface of the Heart, showing the openings of the great vessels and the line of reflection of the serous pericardium. between these are the orifices of the two right pulmonary veins, and immediately to the right of the latter is the indistinct posterior interauricular sulcus, whiclr descends to the left of the oriilce of the inferior vena cava. The openings of the two left pulmonary veins are situated near the left border of the base; and the portion of the surface which hes between the right and left pulmonary veins forms the anterior boundary of the great oblique sinus of the pericardium. The base is hmited below by the lower part of the auriculo-ventricular groove, in which the coronary sinus hes; its upper border is in relation with the bifur- cation of the pulmonary artery. A fold of pericardium, the vestigial fold of Marshall (ligamentum v. cavae sinistrae) descends, near the left border of the base, from the left branch of the pulmonary artery above to the left superior pulmonary vein below; and from the lower end of this fold, crossing obliquely below the left pulmonary vein to reach the coronary sinus, is the small oblique vein of Marshall (v. obliqua atrii sinistri [Marshalh]). Further, it is from the base that the visceral layer of the pericardium which elsewhere completely invests the heart