THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 1068 (■oimiiouly ])i'esent in tlie I'a-tus (Tlionisoii). Or tlu^ liver may be divided iqi into a large muiiT)er of distinct l()l)es, as in uiixst other animals. Changes in position have lieen already refei red to in connexion with variations in form ; there need only he added here that the liver ascend.s and descends at every expiration and inspira- tion respectively, and that it also descends, but very .slightly, in changing from the reclining to the erect jjosture. Occasionally, without any evident cause, the liver and diaphragm are found to occupy a higher oi- lower position than usual. Fixation of the Liver.—At first sight it is not easy to luiderstand the means by which the liver maintains its position in the abdomen (and the same remark a])plie.s, perhap.s, to other solid abdominal organs). The falciform ligament probably gives it no support, as it is ([uite lax when in the body. Nor can it be said that its vessels, except perhaps the hepatic veins, assist. However, on considering the conditions under which the visceiu are placed in the alidominal cavity the ])i'obleni becomes less difticult. The alxlonien is a closed cavity, with a tirm framewoik to its upper jiart, a tightly stretched diaphragm for its roof, and muscular walls all round. Into the concavity of this roof the parietal surface of the liver is fitted with perfect accuracy, so that the two are in absolute contact, and cannot be separated without jiroducing a vacuiim, unless some other structure is in a position to fill the space. But there is hardly any other viscus movable enough to pass ujj over the front of the liver into the vault of the diajihragm, so that atmospheric ])ressure alone is probably sufficient to retain the organ in situ, as in the oa.se of the hip joint. In addition, the abdominal muscles are always in a condition of tonic contraction or " tone," which gives rise to an intra- abdominal pressure. This is effective in all directions, and consequently there is a considerable jn-essure on all the abdominal walls. The liver, being in ab.solute contact with the roof, may be considered a part of this wall, and it is consequently affected by this ])ressure which help's to sustain it. Add to this, the support Mdiich the organ receives from the inte.stines, the stomach, and the pancreas ; from the coronary and lateral ligaments; from the connexion of the back of the right lobe by areolar tissue to the diaphragm ; and, finally, from the vena cava embedded in the liver and sending its hepatic veins forwards to all parts of the organ, just before the cava itself is firmly attached to the margins of the caval orifice in the central tendon of the diajjhragm, and we \\\\\ probaldy find sufficient cause for the maintenance of the organ in its position in the alxlominal cavity. THE GALL-BLADDER AND BILE-PASSAGES. Under this lieading we h.ive to consider the hepatic ducts, the gall-bladder, the cystic duct, and the common bile-duct. The excretory ducts of the liver (Fig. 718) begin within tlie hepatic lobules as minute channels, running between the hepatic cells (Fig-. 721), and known as the bile canaliculi (ductus biliferi). Outside the lobules these join (Fig. 721) the interlobular ducts (ductus interlobu- lares), which latter by uniting form larger and larger ducts, and finally end in two, or more, chief hepatic ducts, a larger from the right, and a smaller from the left lobe, which unite immediately after leaving the liver to form the hepatic duct. As a nde, five or six ducts leave the liver at the l>ottom of the portal fissure ; these generally unite into right and left main ducts ; sometimes they all converge towards, and unite at the beginning of the hepatic duct. It is interesting to note that the ducts from the Spigelian au"d caudate lobes join the left main duct. The hepatic duct (ductus hepaticus), formed at the bottom of tlie portal fissure l)y the uni(jn of right and left chief" ducts (Fig. 718), passes doNvnwards, with an irregular course, and, just outside the mouth of the portal fissure, is joined by the cystic duct (Fig. 718) to form the common bile-duct. In length it usually measures about 1 to 1} inches (25 to 31 mm.), and in breadth, when flattened out, nearly \ inch (6 mm.), or about as much as a goose quiU. It lies, practically altogether, within the portal fissure. The gall-bladder (vesica fellea), with its cystic duct, may Ije looked upon as a diverticulum of the l)ile-duct, enlarged at its extremity to form a reservoir for the bile. It is pear-shaped, and lies obliquely on the under surface of the liver (Fig. 718). The wide end, or fundus, usually reaches the inferior border of the liver—where there is sometimes a notch to receive it—and comes in contact with the anterior alidominal wall (Fig. 714). The body (corpus) runs Ijackwards, upwards,and to the left, lying in the ibssa of the gall-bladder, aiul luiar tlie portal fissure passes rather abruptly into the narrow neck. The neck (collum) is curved inwards towards the ])ortal fissure, in the form of the italic letter s, ami wluiii distended it presents the appearance of a spiral constriction which is continued into the l)eginning of the