499 DEEr OEIGIN OF THE TEOCHLEAR NERVE. Deep Origin of the Cranial Nerves which arise within the Mesencephalon. Two of the motor cranial nerves, viz. the ocnlo-motor and the trochlear nerves, as well as the mesencephalic root of the trigeminal nerve, obtain origin within the mesencephalon. The nuclei from which they spring are all situated within the gray matter of the Sylvian aqueduct. Mesencephalic Root of the Trigeminal Nerve (radix descendens).—The fibres of this root arise from a column of large, sparsely-arranged cells, which extends throughout the entire length Decussation of lateral hllet fibres — Sylvian aqueduct Sylvian gray matter Nucleus of inferior quadrigemiual body Inferior brachium Mesencephalic root of tifth nerve Nucleus of fourth nerve Posterior longi- tudinal bundle Lateral fillet Decussation of the superior cerebellar peduncles Mesial fillet Section through the Inferior Quadrigeminal Body AND THE Tegmentum of the Mesencephalon at the Level OF the Middle Part of the Nucleus of the Trochlear Nerve (Orang). of the mesencephalon. These cells lie in the outer part of the Sylvian gray matter, close to the tegmentum. The axons which emerge from the cells run downwards close to the outer surface of the Sylvian gray matter in the form of a small, gradually-increasing tract. In the lower part of the mesencephalon this tract assumes a crescentic outline, and ultimately comes to lie on the inner aspect of the superior cerebellar peduncle (Fig. 346, p. 466). The further course of the mesencephalic root of the fifth nerve through the upper part of the pons, to the point where it joins the emerging motor root of the trigeminal nerve, has already been traced Fig. 371. (p. 485). Trochlear or Fourth Nerve (nervus trochlearis).— The trochlear nerve supplies the superior oblique muscle of the eyeball. It emerges from the brain, on its dorsal aspect, at the upper part of the superior medullary velum, immediately below the lower border of the inferior quadri- geminal body (Fig. 373, p. 502). The nucleus from which it arises is a small oval mass of gray matter, placed in the ventral part of the Sylvian gray matter at the level of the upper part of the inferior quadrigeminal body. The close association of this nucleus with the posterior longitudinal bundle has already been alluded to. It is sunk deeply in a bay, which is hollowed out on the dorsal and inner aspect of that tract. The nerve has a course of some length within the mesencephalon. The axons of the cells leave the outer aspect of the nuclear mass, and curve backwards and outwards in the Sylvian gray matter until they reach the concave inner surface of the mesencephalic root of the trigeminal nerve. ^ Here they are gathered together into one or two round bundles, which, bending sharply, turn downwards at a right angle and descend on the inner side of the trigeminal root. "When the region below the inferior quadrigeminal body is reached, the nerve makes another sharp bend. This time it turns inwards, enters the upper end of the superior medullary velum, in which it decussates with its fellow of the opposite side. Having thus crossed the mesial plane, the trochlear nerve emerges at the inner border of the superior cerebellar peduncle. The course pursued by the fourth nerve within the Sylvian gray matter may be traced by examining in succession Fig. 372 ; Fig. 367, p. 496 ; Fig. 368, p. 496 ; and Fig. 347, p. 467. Oculo-motor or Third Nerve (nervus oculo-motorius).—The oculo-motor nerve supplies the levator palpebral superioris, all the ocular muscles, with the exception of the superior oblique and the external rectus, and also two muscles within the 32 a