372 THE MUSCULAE SYSTEM. a. Flexion and Extension. Longus colli Eectus capitis anticus major Scaleni aiitici (together) Psoas magnus and itarvus Levator ani Iscliio-coccygeiis SjDliincter ani externus Rectus abdominis Pyramidalis abdominis Obliqiius externus abdominis Obliquus internus „ Transversalis „ Serrati postici Splenius capitis Splenius colli Erector spinre Semisj)inalis dorsi Semispinalis colli Complexus Multifidus spinse Interspinales Intercostal muscles Diaphragm Triangularis sterni h. Lateral Movement (Rotation). Levator anguli scapulae Serrati postici Sjdenius colli Erector spinae Complexus Semispinalis Multifidus spinae Rotatores dorsi Inter-transversales Longus colli Rectus capitis anticus major Scaleni, anticus, medius, posticus. Psoas magnus and parvus Quadratus lundDorum Obliquus externus abdominis Obliquus internus ,, Transversalis „ Rectus „ Pyramidalis „ 2. Movements of the Head.—The movements of the head are flexion and extension, at the occipito-atlautoid articulation ; lateral movement and rotation at the atlanto-axial joint. a. Flexion ami Extension. Digastric Stylo-hyoid Stylo-pharyngeus Mylohyoid Hyoglossus Sterno-hyoid Sterno-thyroid Omo-hyoid Recti capitis antici (major and minor) {the muscles of both sides acting together) Sterno-mastoid Splenius capitis Trachelo-mastoid Complexus Obliquus inferior Recti capitis postici (major and minor) b. Lateral Movement. c. Rotation. Sterno-mastoid Splenius capitis Trachelo-mastoid Complexus Obliquus superior Rectus capitis lateralis Sterno-mastoid Splenius cajjitis Trachelo-mastoid Complexus Obliquus inferior „ superior Recti cajiitis postici (major and minor) 3. Movements of the Pelvis.—Tlie movements of the pelvis (as in locomotion) are partly caused by certain of the muscles of the liack. Those muscles, which are attached to the spinal column or the ribs on the one hand, and to the innominate bone on the other, produce the movements (flexion, extension, and lateral movement) of the whole pelvis. In addition, the muscles passing between the innominate bone and femur, in certain positions of the lower limb, assist in these movements.