781 BEANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN AETEEY. (c) Pericardial.—These are several small Ijranclies which ramify on the anterior aspect of the pericardium. (fZ) The anterior intercostal (rami intercostales), are two in number in each of the upper six intercostal spaces. They pass outwards for a short distance either between the pleura or the triangularis sterni and the internal intercostal muscles; they then pierce the internal intercostal muscles, and ramify between them and the external intercostal umscles, anastomosing with the aortic and superior intercostal arteries and their collateral branches. (e) 'i'he anterior perforating branches (rami perforantes), one in each of the upper six intercostal spaces, are small vessels which pass forwards with the intercostal nerves, piercing the internal intercostal muscle, the anterior intercostal membrane, and the pectoralis major, to terminate in the skin and subcutaneous tissue. They supply twigs to the sternum, and those in the third and fourth spaces, usually the largest of the series, give off branches to the mammary gland. (/) The musculo phrenic (a. musculo-phrenica), or external terminal branch of the internal mammary artery, runs downwards and outwai'ds fi'om the sixth intercostal space to the tenth costal cartilage. In the upper part of its course it lies upon the thoracic surface of the diaphragm, but it pierces the muscle about tlie level of the eighth costal cartilage, and terminates on its abdominal surface. Its branches are : — (i.) Muscular, wliicli supply the diaphragm and anastomose with the superior and inferior phrenic arteries. (ii.) Anterior intercostal branches, two in each of the seventh, eighth, and ninth intercostal spaces; tliey are distributed in tlie same manner as the corresponding Ijranclies of the internal mammary artery, and terminate by anastomosing with tlie aortic intercostals and their collateral branches. (g) The superior epigastric (a. epigastrica superior), or internal terminal branch of the internal mammary arter}-, descends into the anterior wall of the abdomen. It leaves the thorax, between the sternal and costal origins of the diaphragm, and enters the sheath of the rectus, lying first behind, and then in the substance of the rectus muscle. It termi- nates by anastomosing with branches of tlie deep epigastric artery. Its branches are :— (i.) Muscular, to tlie rectus, to the flat nuiscles of the abdominal wall, and to the diaphragm. (ii.) Anterior Cutaneous.—These branches pierce the rectus and the anterior portion of its sheath. They accompany the anterior terminal branches of the lower six intercostal nerves, and terminate in the subcutaneous tissues and skin of the middle portion of the anterior abdominal wall. (iii.) Ensiform, a small branch which crosses the front of the ensiform process to anastomose with its fellow of the opposite side. It supplies the adjacent muscles and skin. (iv.) Hepatic branches of small size pass backwards in the falciform ligament to the liver, where they anastomose with branches of the hepatic artery. (4) Superior Intercostal Artery (truncus costo-cervicalis, Fig. 556).—The superior intercostal artery springs from the back of the second part of the sub- clavian artery on the right side and. from the first part on the left side. It runs upwards and. backwards from its origin, over the apex of the pleural sac, to the neck of the first rib in front of which it descends, between the first thoracic ganghon of the sympathetic cord and the first dorsal nerve, to the first intercostal space, where it divides into two branches which are distributed to the upper two intercostal spaces. Branches.—(a) The profunda cervicis (a. cervicalis profunda).—This branch some- times arises from the subclavian artery directly ; but more commonly it springs from the superior intercostal at the upper border of the neck of the first rib. It runs backwards, like the dorsal branch of an intercostal artery, passes between the fii'st dorsal and last cervical nerves, and between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib to the back of the neck, where it ascends between the complexus and the semi- spinalis colli muscle to terminate by anastomosing with the deep branch of the princeps cervicis artery. It also anastomoses with branches of the ascending cervical and vertebral arteries, supplies the adjacent muscles, and sends a spinal branch through the inter- vertebral foramen between the last cervical and the first dorsal vertebrae into the spinal canal, which anastomoses with the sjainal branches of the vertebral and intercostal arteries. . . (6) Terminal.—The two terminal branches run outwards, one in the first and one in the second intercostal space. Each runs near the upper border of its space, passing at first between the pleuKi and the posterior intercostal membrane, and then between the