LACHEYMAL APPAEATUS. 697 of the outer canthiis they anastomose with each other and with twigs from the lachrymal, super- ficial temporal, and transverse facial arteries, and in tliis way an arch is formed in each lid (upper and lower tai'sal ai'clies). Secondary smaller arclies are found, one above the primary arch in the upper lid and another below that of the lower lid, while the upper lid also receives branches from tlie supraorbital and frontal arteries. Tlie veins are arranged into two sets : (a) subconjunctival or retrotarsal, opening into the muscular tributariei of the ophtlialmic vein, and (b) pretarsal, wliich pour their contents into the angular and superficial temporal veins. The lymphatics, like the veins, form pre- and retrotarsal networks, which communicate with each other through the tarsal plates. The lymph is drained j^artly into the preauricular and parotid lymphatic glands, and partly, by vessels which accompany the facial vein, into the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The sensory nerves of the eyelids are supplied by the fifth cranial nerve—the u]iper lid chiefly by the supraorbital and supratrochlear branches of the ophthalmic ; the lower, by the infraorbital branch of the sujaerior maxillary. The region of the outer canthus receives some filaments from the lachrymal nerve, that of the inner from the infra trochlear. These sensory nerves form a marginal plexus behind the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. The levator palpebraj muscle is supplied by the third cranial nerve and the non-striped fibres of the lids by the sympathetic. LACHEYMAL APPAEATUS. The lachrymal apparatus (apparatus lacrimalis) consists of : (1) the lachrymal gland, which secretes the tears ; (2) the lachrymal canals, by which they are drained from the front of the globe ; and (3) the lachrymal sac and nasal duct, which convey them into the nasal cavity. The lachrymal gland is a flattened, oval body situated in the upper and outer part of the orbital cavity, and consists of two portions—orbital and palpebral— imperfectly separated from each other by the expansion of the tendon of the levator palpebrie superioris muscle. The orbital portion, termed the glandula lacrimalis superior, is firm and much larger than the palpebral part; it measures transversely about 20 mm., and sagittally from 12-14 mm. It occupies the fossa lacrimalis on the inner aspect of the external angular process of the frontal bone and is fixed by fibrous bands to its periosteum, while its inferior surface is in contact with the levator palpebrse superioris and external recti muscles which intervene between it and the globe of the eye. The smaller, palpebral portion, named glandula lacrimalis inferior, consists of loosely aggregated lobules. It lies below and in front of the orbital portion and projects into the posterior part of the upper eyelid, where its deep sur- face is in contact with the conjunctiva. The ducts of the upper gland, from three to five in number, receive those of the lower gland, which vary from three to nine, and open on the upper eyehd close to the fornix conjunctiviB superior. The lachrymal gland has a structure similar to that of the parotid, and is supplied by the sympathetic and lachrymal nerves and by the lachrymal artery, while its veins are dr.iined mto the ophthalmic vein. The lachrymal canals (ductus lacrimales) commence by minute orifices, termed the puncta lacrimalia, at the apices of the papilltB lacrimales, ah'eady referred to (p. 695). The upper canal is the smaller of the two, and at first ascends for a short distance, and then runs inwards and slightly downwards; the lower descends for a short distance and then runs horizontally inwards. At the an!j,le where they ch mge their direction each is dilated into an ampulla (ampulla ductus lacrimalis). They occupy the margins of the lids, where these bound the lacus lacrimalis, and the two canals open close together into tlie outer and forepart of the lachrymal sac, a little below its middle; sometimes they open separately into a pouch-like dilatation of the sac, termed the sinus of Maier. Each canal is lined by a stratified epithelium placed on a. tunica propria, outside which is a layer of striped muscular fibres, derived from the tensor tarsi muscle. These muscular fibres are arranged somewhat spirally around the canals, but at the bases of the papillae they are circular in direction and form a species of sphincter. On contraction, they serve to empty the contents of the lachrymal canals into the lachrymal sac. The lachrymal sac and nasal duct together form the passage by which the tears are conveyed from the lachrymal canals to the nose. The lachrymal sac (saccus lacrimalis) is the upper expanded part of the passage, and measures from 12-15 mm. in length, about 7 nim. antero-posteriorly, and from 4-5 mm. transversely. It lies in the groove formed by the lachrymal bone