1234 SURFACE AND SURGICAL ANATOMY. liglit into it tiirovigli a speculum introduced into tlie empty bladder after dilating the urethra. The patient is placed in the genu-pectoral position, so that the bladder may become inflated with aii', the coils of intestine being displaced iipwards. In the distended condition of the bladder the mucosa has a dull white appearance, except in the region of the trigone, which shows a pale pink injection ; when the bladder is contracted the mucosa appears injected throughout. The ureteral orifices, placed about one inch apart and connected by a slight transverse ridge (inter-ureteric fold), present the appearance of fine transverse slits situated upon small and somewhat injected elevations of the mucosa. Every minute or so a jet of urine will be seen to issue from the orifice. Having in this way located the ureteral opening, a catheter or bougie may be passed into it along the speculum. By rectal examination the finger can palpate, from below upwards, the recto-vaginal septum, the cervix uteri, the posterior fornix of the vagina, the apex of the pouch of Douglas, and the body of the uterus. By washing out the rectum and intrpducing a speculum into the bowel, with the patient in the genu-pectoral position, the rectum becomes inflated with air; the finger can now feel very distinctly the posterior surface of the uterus and the Fallopian tubes, and by running the finger outwards along the pro- minent fold formed by the utero-ovarian ligament the ovary is also very distinctly felt. On opening the abdomen by a mesial incision extending from the umbilicus to the pulses, and looking into the pelvis from above after displacing some coils of the small intestine upwards, the fundus of the uterus, directed forwards and a little upwards, is seen resting upon the postero-superior surface of the bladder. Behind the uterus is the rectum, and between the two the pouch of Douglas, containing the pelvic colon and the lower part of the ileum. The ovary lies a little below the level of the brim of the pelvis upon a triangular shelf, bounded in front by the broad ligament, behind and internally by the utero-sacral ligament, and behind and externally by the pelvic wall. When the vermiform appendix overhangs the brim of the pelvis its tip may come into close relation with the right ovary, a condition which often leads to a difficulty in distinguishing an inflam- mation of that ovary from appendicitis. The round ligaments are seen passing forwards and outwards from the anterior aspect of the cornua of the uterus to the internal abdominal rings, which lie immediately in front and to the inner side of the terminations of the external iliac arteries. Below and at the inner side of the round ligament, as it leaves the pelvis, is the deep epigastric artery. By pulling the uterus upwards the attachments of the broad ligament to the floor and lateral walls of the pelvis are brought into evidence, as also are the utero-vesical and recto-vaginal peritoneal pouches ; the former is shallow, while the deepest part of the latter covers the upper fourth of the posterior wall of the vagina, and comes into relation, therefore, with the posterior fornix. The iireter crosses the brim of the pelvis in front of the bifurcation of the common iliac artery IJ in. external to and a little below the centre of the sacral promontory. The corresponding point on the anterior abdominal wall is at the junction of the outer and middle thirds of a line joining the anterior superior spines of the ilium. After crossing the termination of the conunon iliac artery from without inwards the ureter curves downwards and forwards behind the perito- neum of the postero-lateral wall of the true pelvis ; in front of it are the Fallopian tube and ovary. Before reaching the bladder it enters the parametric connective tissue, in which it curves downwards, forwards, and inwards about three-quarters of an inch external to the lateral aspect of the cervix uteri. The uterine artery in tlie first part of its course runs downwards and forwards a little external to the ureter; at the level of the internal os it curves inwards in front of the ureter and then divides into uterine and vaginal branches. In the operation oi hysterectomy care must be taken not to injure the ureter; it is important, therefore, to keep in mind its relation more especially to the uterine artery and to the cervix uteri. The ovarian artery enters the pelvis between the layers of that portion of the broad ligament known as the infundibulo-pelvic ligament; it is here that the vessel may be most readily ligatured in abdominal hysterectomy, and in ovariotomy.