368 THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. Internal to the insertion of each is the origin of a slip of the accessorius muscle (m. ilio-costalis dorsi), which, arising from the lower six ribs internal to the ilio- costalis, is inserted in line with it by similar slips into the upper six ribs. The cervicalis ascendens (m. ilio-costalis cervicis) arises in the same way by six slips from the upper six ribs, internal to the insertions of the accessorius. It forms a narrow band, which, extending into the neck, is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, behind the scalenus posticus. The ilio-costalis, accessorius, and cervicalis ascendens form together a continuous muscular column, and constitute the outermost group of the component elements of the erector spinas. The longissimus dorsi is the largest element in the erector spinse. Mostly tendinous on the surface at its origin, it becomes fleshy in the upper part of the loin, and is inserted, by an inner and an outer series of slips, externally into nearly all the ribs, and internally into the transverse processes of the thoracic and the accessory processes of the upper lumbar vertebne. It is prolonged upwards into the Anterior tubercles of transverse processes Fig. 271.—Scheme of Muscular Attachments to Cervical Vertebra. neck by its association with the common origin of two muscles, the transversalis cervicis and the trachelo-mastoid. The transversalis cervicis (m. longissimus cervicis) has an origin from the transverse processes of the upper six thoracic vertebrae, internal to the insertions of the longissimus dorsi. Extending upwards into the neck, it is inserted, under- neath the cervicalis ascendens and splenius colli muscles, into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae.. The trachelo-mastoid (m. longissimus capitis) arises, partly by an origin common to it and the previous muscle, from the transverse processes of the upper six thoracic vertebrre, and partly by an additional origin from the articular pro- cesses of the lower four cervical vertebrae. Separating from the transversalis cervicis, the muscle ascends through the neck as a narrow band which intervenes between the splenius capitis and complexus, and is inserted into the mastoid process beneath the former muscle. The longissimus dorsi, with its cervical prolongations, forms the middle column of muscles in tiie erector spinae. The spinalis dorsi arises by tendinous fibres from the lower two thoracic and upper two lumbar spinous processes, and also directly from the tendon of the longissimus dorsi. It is a narrow muscle which, lying close to the thoracic spinous processes internal to the longissimus dorsi and complexus, is inserted into the