889 moepholoCtY of the akteeies. body, the kidney, and the ovary or testicle, and it is accordingly termed the intermediate visceral artery. The third artery, which is known as the splanchnic segmental artery, springs from So.SA CAA.I Fig. 607.- -dlageam of the cephalic aortic arches, and op the segmental and intersegmental Arteries in the Region in Front of the Umbilicus. C. A.A I, II, III, IV, V. The cephalic aortic arches. Po.T. Co. Anastomosing vessel between the primitive Pr.C. ventral aorta and the ventral somatic P.V.A. anastomosis. So.S.A D. D. Dorsal division of a somatic segmental artery. D.Sp. Dorsal splanchnic anastomosis. Sp.S.A, L.B. Lateral branch of ventral division of somatic V.D. segmental artery. V.E.D. L.B.D. Branch to lateral enteric diverticulum. V.V. P.D.A. Primitive dorsal aorta. V.So. Po.C. Post-costal anastomosis. V.Sp. Post-transverse anastomosis. Pre-costal anastomosis. Primitive ventral aorta. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. Somatic segmental arteries. Splanchnic segmental arteries. Ventral division of a somatic segmental artery. Branch to ventral enteric diverticulum. Vitelline vessels. Ventral somatic anastomosis. Ventral splanchnic anastomosis. the ventral surface of the descending aorta. It runs in the tissues xleveloped from the splanchnic mesoderm, and supplies the wall of the alimentary canal. The somatic segmental arteries form in the early embryo a regular series of paired vessels throughout the cervical, dorsal, lumbar, and sacral regions. It is, however, only in the dorsal and lumbar regions that their original cliaracters are retained. The paired ^ ° ^-^ vessels pass backwards by the sides of the vertebrne, and divide into dorsal and ventral branches which accompany the corresponding anterior and posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves. The ventral branches run out- wards between the ribs in the dorsal region, and in corresponding positions in the lumbar region. They are connected together, near their commencements, by a series of precostal anastomoses which pass in front of the necks of the ril3s, and they are also connected together near their terminations by ventral anastomosing channels which run in the thoracic region behind the costal cartilages, and in the lumbar region behind or in the substance of the rectus abdominis muscle. Each ventral branch gives off a lateral offset which is distributed like the lateral cutaneous branch of a spinal nerve. ■ The dorsal branches run back- FiG. 608.—Diagram op the Caudal Aortic Arch, and Segmental and Intersegmental Arteries in the behind the umbilicus. Cd.A.A. Caudal aortic arch. Dorsal splanchnic ana- stomosis. Middle sacral artery. Parietal branch from caudal arch. Primitive dorsal aorta. Primitive ventral aorta. D.Sp. M.S. Pa.C. P.D.A. P.V.A. OF THE Region So.S.A. Somatic segmental arteries. Sp.S.A. Splanchnic segmental arteries. V.E.D.(Hy). Branch to a ventral enteric diverticulum. Vi.C. Visceral branch from the caudal arch. V.V. Vitelline vessels. wards between the trans^-erse processes of the vertebrae ; they are connected Ijehind the necks of the ribs by post-costal anastomoses, and again behind tlie transverse processes of the vertebrae by