1172 ^SUKFACK AND SUIKJICAI. ANATOMY. ethmoidal cells are closely related to the thin inner or nasal portion ol' the Hoor of tlie sinus and its duct of exit; hence su])puratiou very frequently co-exists in both cavities. In some cases pus flows directly from the frontal sinus and infundibnlimi along the liiatus seniiliniaris into the nuixillary antrum, which opens into the l)ack part of tlie iiiatus. THE FACE. The skin of the face is thin, vascular, and rich in sehacenus and sweat <^lands; it is intimately connected with the subcutaneous tissue, in wliich are iudjedcled tlie facial muscles as well as the main Idood-vessels. Owing to its elasticitv and to the presence of the main blood-vessels in the lax sul)cutaneous tissue, the face is an admirable site for plastic operations, as the llaps do not necrose in spite of consider- able tension. The laxity of the tissues accounts for the marked swelling which attends redematous and inflammatory conditions about the face. Wliene\'er pos- sible, incisions sh(>uld be made along the line of the natural furrows and creases of the skin, so as to render the resulting cicatrix less noticeable. The liony landmarks of the face which may be readih' pal^jated are: the superciliary ridges and the glabella, the nasion (fronto-iuisal junction), the bridge of the nose, the osseous anterior nares and the nasal spine, the supra- and infra-orbital margins, tlie external and internal angular processes, the anterior part of the temporal crest, the malar bone, tlie zygomatic arch, and the region of the canine fossa of the upper jaw. Immediately l)elow the root of tlie zygoma, and in front of the upper part of the tragus, is the condyle of the jaw. By pressing with tlie point of tlie finger upon the condyle while the mouth is being widely opened, the bone will be felt to glide forward, while the finger sinks deeply into the hollow corres])Oiiding to the glenoid cavity. The close relation of the first part of the internal maxillary artery to the inner aspect of the neck of the jaw must be kept in mind in operations calling for disarticulation or excision of the condyle. The ascending ramus of the jaw is sandwiched between the masseter and the pterygoid muscles, and can be removed without opening into the mouth. Passing downwards from the condyle, one can palpate the anterior and posterior borders of the ascending ramus and the angle and body of the mandible. The anterior border of the coronoid process is felt in front of the upper part of the anterior border of the masseter, imniediatelv ))elow the anterior jiart of the zygomatic arch. The pulsation of the facial artery may be felt as the vessel crosses the lower margin of the mandible at the anterior border of the massetei', 1 in. in front of the angle of the jaw. To map out the course of the artery upon the face, draw a line from this point to a point ^ in. external to the angle of the mouth, and tlience to a point a little behind the ala nasi and along the side of the nose to the inner angle of the orbit. The facial vein lies behind the facial artery, and takes a straighter course from the inner canthus to the anterior inferior angle of the masseter. The vessel is devoid of valves, hence infective phlebitis and throm- bosis are liable to spread along it to the cavernous sinus by way of the ophthalmic and pterygoid veins. A line projected downwards from the supra-orbital notch (junction of inner and middle tliirds of the supra-orbital margin) to the lower Ijorder of the mandil)le opposite the interval between the two lower bicuspid teeth, will cross the infra-orbital and mental foramina, the former ^ in. below the infra-orbital margin, the latter midway between the upper and lower borders of the lower jaw. In performing the operation of neurectomy for the relief of trigeminal neuralgia, these foramina furnish the guides to the correspondingly-named branches of the fifth nerve. It should l)e remembered that the nerves in question, after emerging from their respective foramina, lie, in the first instance, beneath the facial muscles. The supra-orbital and infra-orl)ital nerves are not infrequently represented each by two branches, one of which passes through an accessory foramen situated external to the normal opening. Neurectomy of the inferior dental nerve is performed by trephining the ascending ramus of the jaw midway l)etween its anterior and ])0S- terior borders, (m a level with the crown of tlie last molar tooth, the nerve 1)eing