1166 SUKFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. chronically inflamed it is liable to give rise to secondary periostitis and osseous narrowing of the canal. The relations of the osseous walls of the canal are of importance to the surgeon. The whole of the upper wall and the upper half of the posterior wall, developed from the squamous portion of the temporal bone, consist of two layers of compact bone, an upper and a lower, which are continuous, the former with the inner table, the latter with the outer table of the skull. The upper plate passes inwards to the petro-squamous suture, where it becomes continuous with the outer edge of tlie tegmen tympani, which roofs over the tympanic attic and the mastoid antrum; the lower plate bends downwards and inwards at its deepest part to form the lower and outer wall of the tympanic attic and the anterior part of the outer wall of the antrum (Trautmann). It follows, therefore, that when the mastoid antrum is abnormally small, due to sclerosis of the bone, or when it is encroached upon by a far-forward lateral sinus, it, along with the tympanic attic, can be opened by perforating the junction of the upper and posterior walls of the osseous canal, the instrument being directed inwards and slightly upwards. Upon the upper and posterior segment of the external auditory process is the supra- meatal spine; this small but important })rocess, developed from the squamous Roof of iiiastoiil autruin Posterior branch of middle meningeal artery Po.sterior part of middle fnssa of skull i ] Anterior branch of niid(ile meningeal artery Membrana tympani | Chorda tympani nerve Head of malleus Fki. 794.—View of the Odter Wall of the Middle Eau. Section tlirough the left temporal l)one of a child, to show the relations of the middle ear and mastoid antrum to the nnddle and posterior foss£e of the skull. portion, can usually be distinctly made out in the living subject by pressing upwards and liackwards with the forefinger placed in the external auditory meatus. The lower half of the posterior wall of the osseous canal (posterior part of the tympanic plate) is fused with the anterior part of the mastoid procesS; and closes tlie lower and anterior set of mastoid cells (border cells). Anteriorly and interiorly the osseous canal is related respectively to the temporo-maxillary articulation and the parotid gland; hence it follows that blows upon the chin may fracture the tympanic plate as well as the base of the skull, that pain on mastication is usually complained of in acute inflammatory affections of the meatus and middle ear, and that in young children, in whom the tympanic plate is incompletely ossified, suppurative inflammation is liable to extend from the ear to the parotid region. Chnically, to obtain a view of the membrana tympani a specuUuii and a reflecting mirror are employed : tlie auricle is pulled upwards, backwards, and outwards, in order to straighten the cartilaginous part of tiie canal. The healthy membrane is pearly gray, semi-opaque, slightly concave outwards, and obliquely placed, being inclined outwards, especially above and behind. The handle and short process of the malleus, both embedded in the membrana tympani, are the only objects distinctly seen when the healthy ear is examined with the speculum.