1087 THE KIDNEYS. Vessels of the Kidney.—The renal artery is very large in proportion to the size of the organ to wiiich it conveys blood kidney to enter the hilus, lie between the tributaries of the renal vein in front and tlie ureter behind. Enter- ing the substance of the kidney in the manner described above (page 1085), the larger branches lie in the intervals between the pyramids, and are called the interlobar arteries (arterise interlobares renis). These vessels dividing, form a series of in- complete arterial arches (arteria; arci- formes), which pass across the bases of the pyramids. From the arches two chief sets of branches come ott' —those of one set are continued to- wards the periphery and enter the labyrinth, while those of the second set pursue, a recurrent course and enter the intermediate zone of the medulla. The latter vessels, called arteriolse rectse, give rise to the coarsely - striated appearance which this part of the kidney exhibits in section. Each of these vessels, en- tering the medulla, divides into a number of fine branches which run nearl}' parallel to one another, and suppl}^ the tubules in this region of theTodheyT^ The vessels directed out- wards, or interlobular arteries (arteria3 interlobulares), pass through the laby Its terminal branches, as they approach the Labvrintli Medullary ray Efferent ve.ssel Afferent ves.s(;l Fig. Glomerulus Capsule 7S3.—Diagrammatic kepeesentation of the* Structures forming a Kidney Lobe. In the middle part of the hgure the course of one of the kidney tubules is indicated, and in tlie lateral parts the disposition of the larger arteries. A, Cortex ; B, Intermediate zoue ; C, Papillary portion. rinth towards the surface of the kidney. The diagram at the right-hand side of the lower part of the Thev "'ive off a number of short figure Ulustrates the connexions of the structures com- T T . 1 /v. . • , posing a Malpighian corpuscle, branches, termed vasa afiterentia, each r o i = f of which proceeds to the dilated extremity, or capsule, of a uriniferous tubule. Here the Vas afferens breaks up into a much convoluted capillary mass, called a glomerulus, which is contained within the invagination of the capsule. The little vein which issues from the glomerulus is termed a vas efferens; but instead of running directly into a larger vein, it breaks up, after the manner of an artery, into capillaries which supply the tubules W^the labyrinth and medullary rays. The tubules of the intermediate zone also receive their blood-supply from the vasa efFerentia of the nearer glomeruli. Veins corresponding to the intei'lobular arteries and arterioUe rectfe collect the blood from the capillaries surrounding the tubules, and unite to form a series of complete arches across the bases of the pyramids. From these venous arcades vessels arise, which, traversing the intervals between the pyramids, reach the sinus of the kidney, where they unite to form the tributaries of the renal vein. Nerves of the Kidney.—The nerves of the kidney accompany the branches of the arteries, and are derived from the renal plexus. Variations.—A marked difference in the size of the two kidneys is sometimes observed, a small kidney on one side of the body Ijeing usually coniiieiisated for by a large kidney on the 02)posite side. Gases of complete absence of one or other kidney are recorded. Traces of the superficial lobulation of the kidney, present in the foetus and young child, are often retained in the adult. Horse-shoe kidney is not an infrequent aljnorinality. In these cases the two kidneys are united at their lo^ er ends, across the middle line, by a connecting piece of kidney substance. The amount of fusion l3et^^'een the two kidneys varies iiiucli; it is sometimes very com- plete, wliile in other cases it is but slight, the connexion being chiefly composed of fibrous tissue. In some luaiimialian animals, such as the l)car, the ox, the ])()rp(ii!<e, etc., the kidneys are com]»osed of a number of completely isolated lobes, eacli of which corresponds to one pyramid and its surroimding cortex ; wliile in others, such as the horse, the fusion of the lobes is more complete even than in the human kidney, and a single mass represents the united pyramids.