478 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. cells leave tlie dorsal aspect of the nucleus in converging groups to form the root- bundles of the nerve. These, in the first place, proceed straight backwards in the anterior horn of gray matter, lieaching the bay between the two horns of gray matter, they t\un sharply outwards into the white matter and traverse the lateral column to gain their points of exit from the cord. At the decussation of the pyramids, root-bundles, which join the spinal accessory nerve, are seen to proceed from the detached head of the anterior horn of gray matter. The medullary part of the spinal accessory nerve has its nucleus of origin in the medulla; and its root-bundles, as they proceed outwards from this, can be distin- guished by the fact that they pursue a course on the ventral side of the spinal root of the trigeminal nerve, whereas the vagus roots, with which they are apt to be confused, pass tluough or lie on the dorsal aspect of the trigeminal root (Kolliker). The nucleus of origin of the medullary part of tlie accessory nerve is formed by the same colunni of cells which constitutes the nucleus ambiguus, and which, at a higher level, gives motor fibres to the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. It is usual to describe the medullary part of the .spinal accessory nerve as arising in the nucleus of teriiiination of the afferent part of tlie vagus. In the present state of oiu" knowledge tliis is inconsistent with the I'act that the medullary part of the spinal accessory is a motor nerve which supj)lies the muscles of the larynx, etc. Collaterals and fibres of the opposite pyramidal tract end in connexion with the cells of origin of the accessory nerve, and thus bring its nucleus into connexion with the motor area of the cerebral cortex. Fibres also from the posterior roots of the s])inal nerves (afferent or sensory fibres) end in the nucleus. Vagus and Glosso-pharyngeal Nerves (nervus vagus, nervus glosso-pharyngeus). —These nerves present similar connexions with the brain, and they may therefore be studied together. The greater part of both nerves is composed of afferent fibres, which arise outside the brain-stem from ganglionic cells placed in relation to the nerve-trunks. Both nerves likewise possess motor or efferent fibres, which spring from a special nucleus of origin situated within the medulla and termed the nucleus ambiguus. The afferent ganglionic fibres of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal enter the brain by a series of roots which penetrate the medulla along the outer or ventral side of the restiform body. Within the medulla they separate into two sets, viz. a series of bundles (chiefly composed of vagus fibres), which end in the nucleus of termination of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, and another series of bundles (chiefly composed of glosso-pharyngeal fibres), which join a conspicuous longitudinal tract of fibres called the fasciculus solitarius. The nucleus of termination (Figs. 341, p. 458, and .■)43, p. 4G0) of the vagus and glosso - pharyngeal nerves very nearly equals in length the nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve, with which it is closely related. Above, it reaches as high as tlie strii3e acusticte, whilst below its lower end falls slightly short of that of the hypoglossal nucleus. In specimens stained by the Weigert-Pal method the two nticlei offer a marked contrast. The hypoglossal nucleus presents a dark hue, owing to the enormous numbers of fine fibres which twine in and out amidst its cells; the vago-glosso-pharyngeal nucleus is pale from the scarcity of such fibres within it. In the closed part of the medulla the vago-glosso-pharyngeal nucleus lies in the central gray matter immediately beliind the hypoglossal nucleus; in the open part of the medulla it lies in the gray matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle, immediately to the outer side of the hypoglossal nucleus and subjacent to the surface area termed the trigonum vagi. Its cells are spindle-shaped in form and very similar to those found in the posterior horn of giay matter in the cord. In connexion with these cells, the greater number of the afferent fibres of the vagus nerve, and a small proportion of the afferent fibres of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve end in fine terminal arborisations. A small part of the upper portion of the nucleus may be said to belong to the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the remainder of the nucleus to the vagus nerve. Several authorities consider the nucleus which we have described as the terminal nucleus of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal to be in reality a nucleus of origin, and to give off motor fibres, which enter these nerves. Quite recently Dr. A. Bruce has lent to this theory the weight of his name and experience. The fasciculus solitarius (Figs. 340, p 457 ; 341, p. 458; and 343, p. 4G0) is a