1224 SURFACE AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. more especially the right lumbar regitju, and may extend upwards along the colon into the suy)diaphragmatie region, or downwards into the true pelvis. To drain this region a tube is introduced into the right lumliar region either through the anterior abdominal wall or through the right loin. The peritoneal subdivision helow the mesentery corresponds to the left umbilical, left lumbar, and left iliac regions, and is related to the duodeno-jejunal junction, the greater part of the small intestine, part of the transverse colon, the splenic flexure, the descending colon, the iliac colon, the lower part of the left kidney, the left ureter, the lower part Fig. 823.—Latkk.m. Asi'tx r ok Tuunk, showing Suhfack TorOGRAl'HY OF ViSCERA. R.L. Eight lung. R.K. Right kidnev. L. Liver. 1'. L. Pleura. the abdominal aorta, and the common iliac arteries. Suppuration in this division is very liable to extend downwards into the pelvis. Drainage may be estab- lished by the introduction of a tube either through the anterior ab-. dominal wall or through the left lumbar region. If suppuration occur in the pelvis, drainage- may be carried out through the anterior abdominal wall or, in the case of the female, through the vagina. Liver.—The lovMr harder of the liver, as it crosses the costal angle, can readily be determined by palpa- tion and light percussion ; it passes from the eighth left to the tip of the tenth right costal cartilage, and crosses the mesial plane at the level of th^ transpyloric line. In the mid-axillary line it reaches down to a point a little below the lowest part of the tenth right costal carti- lage. Above the left costal margin the lower border passes upwards and to the left to join the left extremity of the liver at the fifth interspace in the mammary Hne. The Jiigh est part of the liver, which corresponds also to the highest part (jf the right arch of the diaphragm, leaches, during expiration, the level of the fourth intercostal space in the mammary line. To the right of the mesial plane the upper border of the liver is too far removed from the anterior wall of the chest, and overlapped by too thick a layer of lung substance, to lie accurately determined by percussion. Behind, the sternvm the upper border reaches to the level of the sixth cliondro- the left of the mesial plane the upper hmit of the Hver by percussion as it merges into the cardiac dulness. The sternal junctions. To cannot be determined falciform ligament of the iiver lies, as a rule, a little to the right of the mesial plane The anterior surface of the Hver may be reached through a mesial incision extending downwards from the ensiform cartilage, or ))y an ol)lique incision a finger's breadth below and ]parallel to the right costal margin. To obtain free access to the upper surface the eighth and ninth costal cartilages must be resected; the seventh cartilage should, if possible, be avoitled, otherwise the pleural, and even the peri- cardial cavity, may be opened. Division of the round and falciform ligaments