83 THE SACEUM. vertebra. Centrally and in front is placed the body, the upper surface of which articulates with the last lumbar vertebra through the medium of an intervertebral disc. The anterior margin is thin and projecting, overhanging the general con- cavity of the front of the bone, and forming what is called the promontory (promon- toriiim). Behind the body, the spinal canal, of triangular form with slightly appressed sides, is seen, whilst posteriorly is the short spinous process forming the highest tubercle of the median crest. Spreading out from the sides, and partly from the back of the body on either side, is a fan-shaped mass of bone, the upper surface of which is slightly concave from side to side, and convex from above and behind downwards and forwards. This, the ala (ala sacralis), corresponds to the thick upper border of the lateral mass, and is formed, as will be explained hereafter, by elements Superior articular process its Coccygeal articular surface Fig. 63.—The Sacrum (posterior view). which correspond to the pedicles and transverse processes of the sacral vertebrae, to- gether with superadded structures—the sacral ribs. The external margin of the lateral mass, as seen from above, is sharp and outwardly convex, terminating behind in a prominent tubercle—the highest of the series of elevations seen on the posterior surface of the bone, which have been already described as serially homologous with the true transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrse. Fused with the back of each lateral mass, and separated from it externally by a narrow but deep notch, is the superior articular process. This supports a vertical articular surface, which is of circular or oval form, and concave from side to side, having a general direction backwards and a little inwards. The borders of the bone are thick above, where they articulate with the ilia, thin and tapering below, where they furnish attachments for the powerful sacro- sciatic ligaments. The iliac articular surfaces are described as auricular in shape (facies auriculares), and overlie the lateral masses formed by the first three sacral vertebrae, though this arrangement is liable to considerable variation. Behind the auricular surface, the bone is rough and pitted by three distinct depressions for the