DUKA MATEE. 557 blood from veius which come from various parts of the brain. They are described in the section dealing with the Vascular System. Strong fibrous partitions or septa are given off along certain lines from tlie deep Ijifi'iidr petrosal .simis Lateral sinus Fig. 413.—Sagittal Section through the Skull, a little to the Left oe the Me.sial Plane, to .show tlie avraiigement of the dura mater. Tlie cranial nerves are indicated by numerals. surface of tlie dura mater. These project iutt) the cranial cavity, and subdivide it partially into compartments which all freely communicate with each other, and each of which contains a definite subdivision of the brain. These septa are : (1) the falx cerebri; (2) the tentorium cerebelli • (3) the falx cerebelli j and (4) the dia]ihragma sella;. The falx cerebri is a sickle-shaped partition which descends in the great longi- tudinal fissure between the two hemisplieres of the cerebrum. In front it is narrow, and attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone. As it is followed backwards it increases in breadth, and behind, it is attached along the mesial plane to the upper surface of the tentorium. The anterior narrow part of the falx is frequently cribriform, and is sometimes perforated by'apertures to such an extent tliat it almost resembles lace-work. Along each border it splits into two layeis, so as to enclose a blood sinus. Along its upper convex attached border runs the great longitudinal sinus; along its concave free border courses the much smaller inferior longitudinal sinus; whilst along its attachment to the tentorium is enclosed the straight sinus. The tentorium cerebelli is a large crescentic partition of dura mater, which forms a membranous tent-like roof for the posterior cranial fossa, and thus intervenes between the posterior portions of the cerebral hemispheres and the cerebellum. It is accurately applied to the upper surface of the cerebellum. Thus its highest point is in front and in the mesial plane, and from this it slopes downwards towards its attached border. It is kept at a high degree of tension, and this depends on the integrity of the falx cerebri, whicli is attached to its u])per aspect in the mesial plane. The 2'>osterior hordrr of tlie tentorium is convex, and is attached to the hori-