THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 868 from the palmar digital plexuses in each digit converge to four trunks, which lie two on each side in the subcutaneous tissue on the lateral margins of the dorsal aspects of the digits. They accompany the dorsal digital veins, and, at the roots of the digits, they pass to the dorsum of the hand, where they anastomose together. The plexus in the palm of the hand is extremely fine, and efferents pass from it not only upwards, Init also downwards and laterally. The upper efferents, three or four in number, accompany the median vein, and terminate either in the superficial glands at the bend of the elbow or in the supra-trochlear glands. The lower efferents pass to the interdigital spaces, and turn backwards to the dorsum to join the digital trunks. The lateral efferents turn round the borders of the hand, those on the inner side join the efferents from the little finger, and those on the outer side the efferents from the thumb. Occasionally some of the efferents which pass towards the outer side fuse to form a fairly large trunk, the so-called Fig. 595.—SuPERprciAL Lymphatics of the Digits and of the Dorsal Aspect of the Hand. central lymphatic which turns round the outer side of the second metacarpal bone and unites with the lymphatic vessels of the thumb and index-finger. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the forearm, including those which ascend from the dorsum and the palm of the hand, are grouped, for the main part, along the radial, median, and ulnar veins, the lateral vessels being joined at intervals by tributaries from the dorsum of the limb. The lymphatic trunks which accompany the ulnar veins terminate in the supra- trochlear glands, and those which accompany the median vein in the glands at the bend of the elbow, the ante-cubital glands, or, if these are not present, in the supra-trochlear glands. The efferent vessels of the ante-cubital and supra-trochlear glands have already been described (p. 867). A few of the lymphatics of the outer side of the forearm and some of those of the upper arm accompany the cephalic vein and terminate in the infra-clavicular glands. All the remaining superficial vessels of the upper arm and forearm pass towards the axilla. They pierce the deep fascia, and terminate in the external set of axillary glands. The deep lymphatics of the upper extremity commence in the bones, periosteum, ligaments, muscles, and intermuscular connective tissue; they accompany the main vessels, and some of them terminate in the deep glands of the forearm and arm, ljut the majority ascend to the external set of axillary glands. THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS AND VESSELS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Lymphatic Glands of the Lower Extremity.—Like those of the upper extremity, these are arranged in two sets, (1) superficial and (2) deep. (1) Superficial Glands.—The superficial glands all lie in the region of the groin, and form tliree groups—the superior, the inferior, and the internal. (a) The superior or inguinal group includes from four to seven flattened ovoid