The Bradshaw Lecture. 13 The success that attended this proceeding in the elbow led Syme, as time went on, to the belief that it was well to limit its performance to that articulation and the shoulder. As is well known, he dismissed excision of the knee. He tried it. He found the knee did not grow in proportion as compared with its fellow in one instance, and he thought, therefore, an artificial substitute would be more useful than the limb preserved by excision; and this conviction he recorded after the lapse of twenty years from his early experience. Time, however, in this has not verified the correctness of his judgment. Within ten years of its publication our late colleague. Sir William Fergusson, revived the operation of the knee by performing it at King’s College Hospital, thereafter following throughout Great Britain, for a good twenty years, the contest between surgeons as to its mode of procedure—a contest ending in the attainment at this time of a well-justified estimate ot its value in selected cases in adults and of the adoption of arthrectomy in children. Fergusson, in dwelling on the period of inaction—in his lec- tures, delivered in these walls in 1867, on the Progress of Anatomy and Surgery, and referring generally to excision of joints—laments the supineness of the English surgeons in language almost pathetic; “Not a breath, not a pen, not a knife stirred in England on the subject.” At the same time that he uttered these words, he rendered to Syme the tribute that he recognised as due—that to him, and to him alone, belonged the establishment of the beneficent operation of excision of the elbow-joint when affected by disease or injury. Though tibio tarsal amputation had been not infrequently performed on the Continent previously to Syme’s operation at that joint, it is to him that the profession is indebted for its introduction and perfection in this country. In 1842, on September 8th, the first occasion on which the proceeding was carried out, the new feature which has made the operation what it IS was established that of securing the pad of the heel as the covering of the stump. Neither Velpeau nor Baudens seized this idea. Flaps taken from the dorsum of the foot