TJie Bradshaw Lecture. 22 The evidence advanced is surely sufficiently striking and shows how enthusiastically he entered on the subject of the antiseptic system, and what perfect results he obtained from it with the comparatively imperfect means then at his disposal. Alas, that it should so have been that whilst the record of this conviction was not a year old his first illness took place, and in the summer of 1869 he resigned his chair of Clinical Surgery and his position of surgeon to the Royal Infirmary. The few words of Paterson* rightly convey the attitude of Syme on this question: “Nothing,” he says, “can more strikingly illustrate the freshness of his mind at this late period of his professional life than the readiness with which he received so great an innovation upon surgical practice.” As Regius Professor of Clinical Surgery in the University of Edinburgh for thirty-five years—a chair that Syme really founded—an influence was exercised on the progress of surgery and the education of surgeons by the example he afforded that cannot too strongly be enforced. Following the method of Dupuytren, whose plan of teaching he had watched in Paris, Syme introduced the practice of bringing the patients before the assembled students, and pointing out the diagnostic characters to them, then discussing the principles and details of the treatment to be adopted, and either putting it in practice at once before them or, in the case of a major operation, doing it some other day when they were prepared to follow the steps of the procedure with profit. At the bedside a short exact statement of the case led up to the diagnosis, which was briefly and happily explained. What he had to do was done quietly and with deliberation. He was never flurried, and taught as much, if not more, by what he did than by what he said. Specially he had the faculty to train surgeons—he insisted on the value of caution limiting their judgments ere the issue of any given case was fairly apparent. The love of his life was the study of surgical diseases that admitted of cure by operation. * Life of James Syme, Edin,, 1874.