25 The Bradshaw Lecture. view all that can be said to rivet our attention to the importance of the union between them being for ever inseparable. Con- spicuous amongst Syme’s qualities was that of absolute self- reliance. With few friends and less money, wanting a hospital for practice and hopeless of an appointment at the infirmary, during eight years he carried on an independent teaching of systematic surgery and started himself a hospital that lasted for four years and closed to him only when the infirmary doors were opened. Here, says Professor Annandale,* “he originated and practised the method of real clinical teaching which was destined to make his clinical surgical teaching in connexion with the university so complete and so great a reform.’’ As an operator Syme never contemplated display. Deliberate, absolutely cool, undismayed by the advent of the unexpected, he appeared to have forseen what would happen and was ready to encounter any emergency. His entire being was con- centrated in the one thought—as to the safest means whereby he could relieve his patient. With few instruments, with anatomical knowledge complete for his purpose, he never felt he could fail. If bleeding occurred during an operation it was rare for him to stay the knife. He went straight on and completed the operation, and then arrested all haemorrhage. In the past history of eminent surgeons how true it is that a partiality becomes manifest for certain operations to the ex- clusion of others; perhaps this arises from the knowledge of what it is that we do best. Thus Syme did not excel in lithotomy and hardly practised lithotrity, and it was with difficulty he admitted any value to pressure in the treatment of aneurysm. Stone, ic is true, was not as common in Edinburgh as in the northern parts of Scotland, nor as about Norwich or the midland counties, as Warwick and Stafford, in England; hence the opportunities for its frequent performance hardly may be said to have existed. If on the subjects of excision of joints, of urethral stricture, of * Op. cit.