The Bmdskazv Lecture. 17 in Syme’s plan any cutting without a guide; the extent of the obstruction was clearly and completely divided on a grooved staff passed through it in the middle line into the bladder; hence neither haemorrhage nor extravasation followed. But how about obtaining this guide ? Are there no impermeable strictures ? In these Syme had no belief. Given time and rest, it was his opinion that no stricture ultimately resisted the passing of an instrument. On this hear his own words: * “ I have never either publicly or privately been unable to pass an instru- ment since I became satisfied that there was no true imperme- ability,” As to this question of non-impermeability, I venture to express my own concurrence, always excepting those of traumatic origin where complete severance of the canal has occurred.! Syme in 108 cases in which he performed external urethrotomy lost only two patients. And now what conclusions are we entitled to draw from the evidence I have adduced ? Proof that Syme originated a treatment of stricture by external division in which treat- ment by dilatation and other means had failed ; that this treatment maintains at this day the value claimed for it by Syme, bringing about a permanent relief from an intolera- ble and complicated malady—secured in most instances by no subsequent passing of instruments — the exception to this being the need that one might be wanted about once in three months, an undertaking that the patient can easily be instructed to manage for himself. The study of aneurysm amongst surgeons in all countries has ever been one of deep interest. In Great Britain the names of Hunter and Jones, of Freer and Hodgson, of Syme and Bellingham, will ever be associated with the successful applica- tion of treatment for its relief. Here anatomy and pathology have truly been the guides of surgery. It is with diffidence, before an assembly such as this, that I mention that I have * Op. cit., p. 35. fOn Traumatic destruction of the Urethra. Pemberton, Lancet, 1861.