26 The Bradshaw Lecture. amputation at the ankle-joint, and the treatment of aneurysm I have chosen to dwell at some length, it is because on the repute connected with their development and growth inseparably depends the abiding character of Syme’s fame as a surgeon. 1 hese alone suffice to establish its solid foundation, but the monument would not be complete did I fail to mention yet other examples of his originality and marvellous sagacity in carrying into effect practical surgery with a boldness, in regard to operative treatment, never previously deemed applicable for their relief. He was’the first to excise the superior maxillary bone, to subcutaneously divide the sterno-mastoid for wry-neck, and to disarticulate the clavicle. He dealt successfully with the removal of the scapula, together with amputation of the whole extremity. Lastly, he pointed out the exact treatment of an agonising malady—fissure of the rectum. There must have been with Syme’s nature an endowment that enabled him at an early date in his career to un- dertake formidable operations, to the successful issues of which he was guided alone by the faculty of being able to think for himself. Here was the keynote of his success, and as he began so he ended. Let me illustrate this, as the whole history of the case I am about to mention abounds with features typical of his surgical character,the soundness of his pathological knowledge, his clearness and accuracy of diagnosis, the immense importance he attached to a serious case, his sanguine confidence when he felt sure of his principles, and his dauntless courage. In 1827 he removed the greater part of the inferior maxilla in a young man twenty years of age. The growth, which involved the bone, was of enormous size, and had already been examined by Mr. Liston (then his senior colleague in teaching anatomy), who had refused to interfere. “The mouth was closed diagonally across the face, and had suffered such monstrous distension as to measure fifteen inches in circumference. The throat of the patient was almost obliterated in appearance, there being only two inches of it visible above the sternum, so that