12 The Bradshaw Lecture. * Kdinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1870. brought about, the eulogium I have just quoted as having justly belonged to Bell will equally have been merited by Syme. In 1828, unconnected with any hospital, Syme performed for the first time in Great Britain the operation of excision of the elbow-joint. I cannot speak on this subject of excision of joints in connection with his name without making a passing reflection on the strange vicissitudes of reputation that dogged the adop- tion by the profession of the most beneficent operation of the century in which he lived. Parks’ suggestion, in his never-to- be-forgotten words of the “ total extirpation of the articulation,” in his letter to Percival Pott in 1782, as a treatment for diseased joints, led only to its application in the knee, so far as his actual work was concerned, and left to the Moreaus the distinction of carrying it out in the elbow in 1797, just two years previous to the date of Syme’s birth. After the Moreaus the whole subject seemed to have slept until revived by Syme, who gave an account of what he had done in the first book he published— namely, a “Treatise on the Excision of Diseased Joints”—in 1831, he then having had an experience of fourteen cases' Undoubtedly to Syme alone belongs the merit of having sub- stituted excision for amputation of the limb in regard to the elbow-joint. He succeeded because, as was ever his wont, he in the first instance established the principle, as alone calcu- lated to secure success in the treatment of caries in joints by excision, that there must be complete cutting or scraping until sound bone was reached. He thus concludes his observations in his earliest record of cases: “The almost forgotten operation of Moreau will now again, perhaps, be reconsidered, and I hope make such a deep impression on the profession as may induce its practitioners to pause before they mutilate a fellow-creature by amputating his arm for disease or injury of the elbow-joint.” To this petition, modest and overflowing with humanity, no more fitting judgment can be available than that which has been written down : “ If he had done nothing else, he would have been one of the greatest benefactors of the human race.” •