20 The Bradskazv Lecture. was afforded him in the need to amputate in two instances of axillary aneurysm at the shoulder-joint, the patient^s age being fifty-two years in the one case and twenty-two years in the other case. The aneurysms were cut through in the operation, and the arteries tied where they lay within the sac. Undisturbed recovery took place in both cases. In i86i* Syme thus treated a gluteal aneurysm. In 1862! he yet further corroborated his opinion in a case of iliac aneurysm in which the common—the external and the internal iliac—arteries were tied, and the argument that the size of the tumour does not depend upon the state of the vessel and therefore is not any measure of the extent to which its coats are impaired was again enforced. On April 20th, the aorta being controlled by Professor Lister with a screw clamp, a free incision was made into the sac, six pounds of blood and clot were emptied, the arterial opening into the aneurysm being obscured in its roof, the ligature was applied to this on both sides, and finally to the internal iliac as well. In all these cases the operation effected a cure. I have authority to state that Syme did not use any other material than the “ small silkin his arterial ligatures for aneurysm. It happened that Sir Joseph Lister in 1869, when about to publish his observations on the ligature of arteries on the antiseptic system, read to Mr. Syme the manuscript in the short interval that preceded his apoplectic seizure in that year. The only alteration suggested was, curiously enough, the in- troduction of the word “small” before “silk,” so impressed was he with the value of a diminutive ligature rather than a large one. As a matter of fact, no case of aneurysm occurred in his practice after the catgut ligature, antiseptically prepared and applied, was introduced. Indeed, the catgut ligature was not ready for him before his illness; but he was quite alive to its importance, and took the keenest interest in an account * Transactions of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, i860, f Ibid . 1862,