21 The Bradshaw Lecture. he had received from Mr. Bickersteth,* of Liverpool—his former house surgeon—of a case in which he had used the catgut with perfect success. In his treatment dealing with wounds Syme had early the greatest aversion to anything like constriction in their treatment. He went so far as to express an opinion that union by the first intention happened more frequently in the days of Taliacotius than it does at present, for the great, I may say infallible, preventive of adhesion—I mean adhesive plaster—was not then invented. Hence followed his disuse of bandages and the use of compresses of linen. He liked the use of ligatures for the vessels with long ends, leaving the two ends hanging outside the wound, which served, he said, as drains for the pent-up blood and serum. That he was alive to the value of the “antiseptic method^’ his contribution to the subject in i868f affords abundant testimony. The seven cases he adduces may be read with advantage in the face of our present knowledge of the value of the antiseptic treatment of wounds, as well as in recollection of the difficulties that beset its adoption by the profession when Syme wrote. These consisted of the removal of a parotid tumour, the treatment of a vast wound of the knee-joint, of two compound fractures of the leg—a psoas—and of a chronic and acute abscess. In all there were conspicuous the utter absence of fever, the repair without purulent formation, and its dis- appearance in the inkances of its collection in the abscess cavities when opened. Well might he anticipate that such an improvement promised a great diminution of human suffering and danger. So satisfied was he as to the disappearance of suppuration by the adoption of this method that in his last clinical lecture, with which he concluded the winter course, he records that he had in his later practice abandoned the ligature in favour of torsion, as, this proceeding leaving no foreign body in the wound, he no longer wanted the two long ends, * Lancet, Vol. I. 1869. t Brit. Med Jour., Jan. 4th, 1868.