10 The Bradshmv Lecture. His self-reliance, sagacity, and fertility of resource were his most assured endowments, and these he cultivated and matured as time went on and gave him experience. It may be truly affirmed that the period covered by Syme’s commencement of practice and the resignation of his chair comprehended a period in the advancement of the science and practice of surgery—a space of fifty years unequalled in the history of the profession. To the last his mind was open to the adoption of additional means of simplifying the practice of surgery, and so long as these did not clash with those principles of thought and action which for ever guided him in his calling, he would readily become the staunchest advocate of change. One cannot trace the career of a great surgeon without dwell- ing, if only for a moment, on some of the influences that contributed in early days to subsequent eminence. The thorough ascendancy with Syme,* as well as with those who preceded him, rested on the fact that he both learnt and taught anatomy. The foundation of the northern school of surgery, begun and maintained from the days of John Bell to those of William Fergusson, owed its solidity to this mastery of anatomy. The surgeons of Edinburgh as early as 1505, as provided by the first Charter granted to them, had to examine the applicant for admission to the Incorporation in anatomy, and were to have a body for dissection once a year. This was a beginning culminating in 1694 in the completion of the surgeons’ anato- mical theatre for dissection, and finally, under Munro’s influence, led to the establishment in 1726 of the medical school of the university. It was not yet, however, that surgical anatomy, the only true guide of the operating surgeon, was placed in the front. This was reserved for John Bell, who secured its application by enforcing the practice of dissection. No truer description of this illustrious man can be given than what is contained in the words of Dr. Struthers : “ He was not only a bold and dexterous operator, but combined all the quali- * Historical Sketch of the Edinburgh Anatomical School, Edinburgh, 1867.—rStruthers