The Bradshaiv Lecture. 24 have been the first to acknowledge, despite his intense devotion to the “ art,” the justice of the comment on Brodie, “ whose life was said to have proved to demonstration,, by a long and admirable career, that devotion to purely scientific pursuits and a deep interest in all concerning scientific progress may coexist with eminent professional skill, with a philanthropic spirit and an enlarged religious mind.”* P'urther, in the Hunterian Oration delivered at this College on February 14th, 1887, Mr. Savory, our then colleague, discusses the value of a knowledge of physiology to the surgeon, questioning the extent to which it should occupy the attention of the student of surgery, at the same time laying down the principle that “some knowledge of physiology is essential to the surgeon.” With this we shall all agree. Of Syme it has been said that with him the art of surgery rather advanced than the science. Admitting that in the practice of the art he was supreme, I would ask by what other means than by first mastering its science was he enabled to obtain that knowledge of the principles of surgery which, after long thinking over, he was enabled to apply to its most effective practice as an art. Syme was never in his severest trials of operative surgery, when human life hung on the thread his fingers controlled, like the mariner without his compass; or if strange difficulties arose, as Mr. Savory writes, what then? I answer that Syme ere he started on his voyage first satisfied himself as to the course which his principles mapped out for his adoption; and whatever difficulties, however startling, beset him, the science of his calling, which in its principles he studied and worked out again and again in his career, steadied and aided him and carried him to success in the application of its practice. Would that the time allotted me permitted of further reference to this subject of science and art in our calling as dealt with by Sir William Savory; I will only say that it comprises in my * Acland ; Sketch of Brodie’s Life for the Royal Society.