i6 The Bradshaw Lecture. meable, and that with time and care in every case an instrument may be passed through it and serve as a guide for the knife. 2. That all strictures which cannot be remedied by simple dila- tation, admit of effectual relief only through a free division of the contracted part of the canal. 3. That this object can be attained with certainty and safety only by an external incision in a line corresponding with the raphe of the perineum upon a grooved director passed through the stricture.” The publication of these views gave rise to no ordinary controversy both in this country and in France, the main difference ranging between the advocates of internal as opposed to external division. The lapse of years should enable us to review with calmness this field of contention. There are certain conditions in connection with stricture to the existence of which hardly any of us will feel inclined to demur. In the first place, let me ask what is the meaning of the word “cure” in stricture? In simple stricture due to inflammation of the lining membrane of the urethra there is the “cure” by dilatation only. In organic stricture, originally simply inflammatory, but becoming aggravated by neglect, or too frequently increased by ill-considered surgical proceedings, there is, properly speaking, no “cure.” “Once organic stric- ture, always organic stricture,” is my belief. It is in these cases of organic and permanent stricture, where the induration has become non-dilatable or cartilaginous, or where there is fistula, that Syme’s views seem to me to commend themselves to our judgment. Believing, myself, in the permanence of these changes established in the urethra, whether by injury or disease, I have never looked with favour on any internal severance of the lining of the canal. Surely the methods employed to forci- bly break up the obstruction are the means of artificially inducing the very conditions which have resulted from other and unavoidable causes; and I regard a shut-up wound in the internal face of the lining of the urethra as being attended by dangers to which an open wound on the outside face is exempt. For carrying into effect external urethrotomy, there never was