23 The Bradshaw Lecture. Here he was the surgeon in all respects, for though he in- vestigated the action of the periosteum in forming new bone and proved it by facts—now corroborated by more remarkable instances than he then adduced—this was well-nigh the only departure after engaging in practice he took from his favourite pursuits. This contribution to surgical science was entitled, “On the Power of the Periosteum to form New Bone.’' * Syme based his conclusion that the periosteum had the power to form new bone independently of any assistance from the old one from his well-known experiments on the radius of the dog, in which an inch and three-quarters having been removed together with the periosteum it was found at the end of six weeks that no new bone filled up the gap, whereas in the other leg similarly treated, but without the periosteum being removed, which was carefully left entire except where the slit was open in front, it was found that a compact mass of bone occupied and more than filled the space left by the portion removed.! In his student days, however, Syme appreciated the value of scientific researches, for he worked diligently and under great difficulties at chemistry—his laboratory a cellar, shared with his fellow student Christison.J His discovery of a solvent for caoutchouc in his twentieth year was important, and was permanently valuable to others if not to himself. Throughout his life he was a master of botanical science, both theoretical and practical. Like Brodie, born some sixteen years before him, Syme was, I would maintain, not indifferent to the value of “science” in the study of surgery, and he would, I feel satisfied. * Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. xiv. Read March 6th, 1857. Question : “ Whether the periosteum or membrane that covers the surfaces of bones posseses the power of forming new osseous substance independently of any assistance from the bone itself.” f Paget in Lectures, 1863 (Ed. Turner), p. 184, referring to the im- portance of the periosteum in the formation of new bone and confirming the truth of recent observations made in France by Flourens, Ollier, Demarquay, and others in reference to the establishment and extension of this power of the periosteum, speaks of them as “facts” long since proved by Syme and now corroborated. X Annandale : Address, Edmburgh, 1877.