The Bradshaw Lecture. 19 of aneurysm affected the general view of the Hunterian operation in the great majority of instances. He argued that there were situations, such as was the case in certain axillary aneurysms, where the application of a ligature to the subclavian on the Hunterian principle promised nothing beyond misfortune; while opening the sac and securing both ends of the ruptured vessel, however difficult and arduous such a proceeding appeared, in his judgment promised, if it did not ensure, a favourable result The belief that all parts of the artery included in the walls of the sac were unsound seemed to forbid the application of the ligature to any portion of the artery close to it, that being held, in all probability, to be unsound likewise. Reflection as to the modes in which spontaneous aneurysms most frequently commence and extend satisfied Syme that this need not be the case. Guided by this conviction, in 1857 he successfully treated a traumatic aneurysm of the carotid, too low for proximal ligature, by incision and ligature of both openings at the wound. Thus fortified, he operated on a patient forty-seven years of age on February ist, i860, in the case of a large aneurysm situated in the left axilla, evidently a rapidly extending one of the axillary artery. The main difficulty and danger of the operation were overcome by the method in which a command over the artery was obtained before it was tied. 1 his was accomplished by a preliminary incision whereby the finger of the assistant was enabled to pass down to the subclavian as it lay on the first rib on the outside of the scalenus anticus. Then the sac was opened freely and safely and its seven pounds of coagulated blood scooped out. The axillary artery was found to have been probably torn across. Its lower end, bleeding, was first secured, and then the upper end from under a divided lesser pectoral muscle. Complete recovery took place at the end of six weeks. A further proof of the correctness of the impression that Syme formed viz., that the extent of an artery either close to or within the sac of an aneurysm is not necessarily unsound beyond the point of rupture, and therefore unfit for ligation—