The Bradshaw Lecture: i r ties, natural and acquired, of a great surgeon to an extraordinary degree. He was original and fearless, and a thorough anatomist. He had intellect, nerve, and also language—was master alike of head, hand, and tongue or pen, and he was laborious as well as brilliant.’^ When this master of our craft was passing away in a foreign land,* the subject of my present thought was entering his twenty-first year, and acting as demonstrator of anatomy to Robert Liston, and not yet a Member of his College of Sur- geons. Syme’s first qualification was M.R.C.S. Eng., 1821, subsequently he had the unique honour of being F.R.C.S. Eng., Edin. and Irel. To speak of the Edinburgh School is to call to mind that famous university which, wherever the English tongue is spoken, cannot fail to be regarded as having ever been pre-eminent in the making of our profession. If in its glorious past it stood well-nigh alone, distancing all competition, it will not, I am prepared to assert, be denied that in the present day, at least in certain respects, it maintains its claim to that pre-eminence. I say this without any thought of forgetting our English or our Irish schools; but until this metropolis obtains those facilities for conferring degrees adequate to the opportunities for study no less than to the character, the ability, and the thoroughness of the teaching it possesses, I shall not hesitate to regard our attitude towards the great body of the profession in our country as being unworthy of the position we assume, and which we have only to thank apathy and selfishness that it is yet possible to be maintained. Liston gave up the teaching of anatomy in 1833. Syme took his place, continuing to teach for the next few years until he lectured solely on surgery. By this he attained that absolute confidence, based on anatomy, which he never lost, that speedily led to his successful application of operative surgery to the cure of disease. I have the expectation that when I shall have drawn attention to what he accomplished, and by what means it was * John Bell died in Rome in 1820.