t8 The Bradshaiv Lecture. myself enjoyed opportunities* of inquiring into the value of various forms of treatment and of investigating some of those pathological changes in arteries and veins that lead to the production of some of the less common forms of the disease. Whilst doing this, however, you will, I trust, believe me when I say that it is for the express object of recalling the occasion in 1872 when, within these walls. Professor Holmes delivered his masterly lectures on the subject, to the illustration of which it was my great privilege to contribute specimens of arterio- venous communications, the results of ligature and pressure in the treatment of aneurysmal formations. These lectures, I need hardly state, gave an impetus that yet endures, and shed a clearer light on the more obscure points connected with their progress and remedy. This interest is naturally awakened in contemplating Syme’s treatment of certain aneurysms of the most formidable character, in which, had he not deviated on his own initiation from the Hunterian principle that the artery should invariably be ligatured beyond the confines of the tumour, there had been none other ending save disaster and death. That he had a happy touch in dealing with arteries may well be believed, that since he tied the femoral artery thirty-five times with one failure from suppura- tion of the sac owing to the use of prolonged pressure and consequent derangement of the general health. To tie the femoral artery safely he suggests that the operation is one not of difficulty but nicety. “ This nicety consisted in the use of a clean cut to open the sheath of the vessel, first seen lying white and free from surrounding bleeding from little vessels, then the vessel cleared in the same way of its cellular and fatty substance, and the needle can be passed without difficulty or danger.”! Nothing in what Syme put in practice relating to the treatment * Aneurysmal Varix, Transactions of the Royal Medical and Chirur- gical Society, 1861. Aneurysm, Address in Surgery, British Medical Associa- tion, 1872, On ligature of Iliac aneurysms, idem, 1877. f Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1866, p. 96S.