The B rads haw L ecture. 14 from the skin above the heel—resulted in a line of union that exposed an integumental cicatrix alone to bear the pressure in locomotion ; hence arose disappointment and comparative failure. That the pad of the heel retains its thickness after long years of pressure as the medium of support in the stump, and does not become thin and wasted, as in almost every other amputation, no matter where situated or with whatever flaps covered, is universally recognised by surgeons. Well might Syme write * “ that he thought that this form of amputation might be advantageously introduced into the practice of surgery, and that he regretted the many limbs that might have been saved by it, and that he would be glad if what he had said in its favour might encourage others to its performance,” In this operation, as in many others that we can readily call to mind, the originator was pestered by the suggestion of so- called improvements, These took the form, in the main, of the question as to the sources whence the coverings of the stump were to be derived. Syme, from the first to the last, always insisted on the value of the natural pad of the heel constituting undivided in the stump the medium of pressure, in preference to any other covering from the neighbourhood of the joint. The lapse of fifty years has not lessened the value or humanity of this operation, or altered the guidance recorded in the first instance as to the mode of its performance. The younger generation of surgeons, with their full knowledge of its excellence, may well wonder at my dwelling on the pro- ceeding with emphatic comment. I cannot, however, forget that when I performed it in the General Hospital, Birmingham, in August, 1853, now forty years ago, it was not even then, eleven years after its introduction, in general adoption, and had not previously been performed in the Midland Counties. I ventured three years later to communicate my experience to Mr. Syme himself,f to me then personally unknown, referring to its applicability to infant deformity, to adult disease as well * Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1843. t On Amputation at the Ankle-joint. Pemberton. London, 1856.