TUMOURS. 268 The skin should be thoroughly disinfected before the operation (see p. i6i), and after it a little salicylic wool may be applied over the puncture, fixed on with collodion and allowed to remain till healing has taken place. The electrolysis causes a good deal of pain, especially at the make and break of the current, and when its strength is increased, and it is therefore well to employ a general anaesthetic. The current should be increased very gradually and, vice versa, when the operation is completed it should be gradually diminished and not shut off abruptly, as otherwise consider- able shock may be caused. Similarly, before reversing the current, its strength should be decreased gradually almost to nothing. When the nsevus is situated over the fontanelle of a young infant, a careful watch must be kept on the pulse as the current is gradually increased. If any sign of shock be noticed, the current must be at once diminished or shut off entirely. As the result of the electrolysis the nsevus becomes hard, and this hardness may sometimes last several weeks before it entirely disappears. If the nasvus be of any size, one sitting is very rarely sufficient for a cure, and, therefore, as soon as the hardness has subsided sufficiently to show what portion requires further treatment, the application is repeated; at first this may be done at intervals of from eight to ten days. After three or four sittings, however, the greater part of the nsevus will have become firm, and then longer intervals must be allowed, because it is impossible to judge how much remains to be done until the hardness has more or less completely disappeared. {c) Caustics.—Besides these extensive and important naevi, there are the small superficial capillary stains, of small size and insignificant pro- portions in which it is not worth while to have recourse to excision. The particular method to be employed will depend to a great extent on the size and situation of the tumour. Where there is simply a slight superficial nsevus affecting the surface of the skin, the application of some irritant substance will suffice. The most popular is the solution of ethylate of sodium, (one part to eight of ethylic alcohol) which is painted over the part once a day for three or four days, and which usually leads to a sufficient amount of inflammation without causing any marked scarring of the skin. It causes a little pain at the time of application, but this is very slight and passes off immediately; no dressing is required. After the application a small crust forms, and this is allowed to dry up and drop off when, if the application has been sufficient, the nsevus will be found to be cured: should any of the nsevus tissue still remain, the application may be repeated. Nitric acid is sometimes used, but it leaves a distinct scar and is decidedly painful both at the time of application and subsequently. For very tiny nsevi or red points, a good method of treatment is to draw through them a needle armed with a very fine silk thread which has been dipped in liquefied carbolic acid. The skin all around where the needle enters should be covered with lint dipped in a 1-40 solution of