WOUNDS. At this stage the question of drainage arises. When Lord Lister began his antiseptic work he laid very great stress on the use of drainage, and at one time no doubt one of the results of the free application of carbolic acid to wounds was a very marked exudation of serum, which, if not allowed to escape, distended the wound and sometimes caused considerable trouble in healing. But with the introduction of sublimate solution and the avoid- ance of carbolic acid in the wound, the conditions underwent a change, and at the present time it is only comparatively seldom that drainage is required. Fig. 52.—Deep .Suture for Approximation of Muscular Planes. The three sutures are tied. The sketch shows the thick ridge formed by the approximation of the ti.ssues, which are in contact over a comparatively wide area. The ends of the sutures are cut short, and the skin is afterwards united by a separate continuous suture. When drainage is not employed, means must be taken to bring the deeper parts of the wound into apposition. To effect this some surgeons introduce stitches, which are left buried in the wound. This may sometimes be necessary where many muscular planes are divided, as, for instance, after laparotomy (the most suitable form of stitch for which is shown in Figs. 51 and 52), exposure of the kidney, etc., but as a general rule we consider that sponge pressure applied outside the wound is sufficient. By one or other method, however, any cavity that is left can generally be obliterated, and it is only in certain cases of incised wounds made by the surgeon that this is impossible ; in them, drainage tubes are required. Cases calling for Drainage.—The following are the chief conditions in which drainage seems desirable : (i) In amputation woufids.—After amputation it would not do to keep the flaps firmly pressed together for fear of interfering with their blood supply, while it would be equally hurtful to allow blood to distend them and possibly lead to gangrene. Therefore it seems advisable, in all cases of amputation, to introduce a drainage tube.