TREATMENT OF ULCERS IN GENERAL. 49 contrivance that will prevent anything coming into contact with its surface. This may be accomplished by fixing over it a perforated celluloid shield (see Fig. 12) of suitable size and shape, leaving the granulating surface bare. The shield should be removed two or three times daily, and the raw surface washed with boracic lotion to remove any dischai-ge. The limb should of course be fixed in the elevated position, and the method of disinfection of the surrounding skin recommended above should be carried out before the shield is applied. If there is much tendency to the formation of crusts from the drying of the discharge, it is well to apply a moist dressing outside the shield to prevent evaporation. A piece of cyanide gauze, soaked in boracic lotion and covered with mackintosh, applied over and around a celluloid shield of suitable size and shape, or a wire cage, moulded to fit the limb, will usually suffice, the limb being suspended in a cradle. Skin-grafting to obtain a sound scar.—A further object in the treatment of all ulcers is to obtain a scar that is as sound as possible. In the case of ulcers affecting the lower extremity, especially in elderly people, the scar obtained when the ulcer is allowed to heal of itself is weak, and readily breaks down if the patient does much standing or walking. The result is that every now and then the patient must give up his work in order to get the ulcer re-healed, or must be content to employ means which merely prevent the extension of the ulcer, and only relieve him of some of his discomfort. Where the best possible scar is desired, and where it is important to avoid any great contraction, it is necessary to adopt one of the methods of skin-grafting. There are three plans by which the rapid healing of a sore may be brought about : Reverdin's epidermis grafting, Thiersch's skin-grafting, and the use of the whole thickness of the skin; of these the best in our opinion is that employed by Thiersch. * In Reverdin's method small thin portions of the superficial layer of the skin are snipped off by curved scissors. Pieces about the size of a hemp seed are planted on the surface of the granulations at short distances from each other; epidermic growth occurs from each of these little points, and the result is that numerous small islands of epithelium form over the surface of the sore. If the grafts are close enough together and the other conditions of healing are favourable, these islands of epi- dermic growth soon coalesce, and in this way rapid cicatrization is obtained. It is necessary that these grafts should not be too far apart, because, as a rule, they have only a limited power of reproduction. Usually each graft gives rise to an island of epidermis about the size of a sixpence, and then growth seems to come to a standstill. The result of this method of epidermic grafting is that rapid healing is obtained in many cases, more especially in burns and sores on the trunk, where the skin is freely move- able over the deeper parts. Further, the contraction of the subsequent cicatrix is considerably diminished, because less granulation tissue is formed than if the sore has to heal altogether from the margin, and the amount D