45 TREATMENT OF ULCERS IN GENERAL. At the present time strapping is generally given up in favour of the elastic bandage, that known as Martin's being the most suitable form. Martin's bandage is a thin sheet of pure rubber, cut into strips about three inches wide and of varying lengths; this is wound around the limb, commencing at the ball of the toes and extending up as far as the knee. The best form is that containing a number of perforations to permit of evaporation; otherwise the perspiration accumulates under the bandage, and is apt to set up a dermatitis. The bandage is used both for those who can and those who cannot lie up; when used by the latter, it should be applied in the morning before the patient gets out of bed, and should be put on loosely, being simply rolled spirally around the limb. The rubber should not be stretched when applied, for one cannot gauge the amount of pressure exerted, and as the limb swells when the patient com- mences to walk about, the bandage may be found unbearably tight. If put on loosely, the oedema which occurs on walking distends the bandage and puts it on the stretch, and in the course of an hour or two it provides a fairly satisfactory amount of support. The bandage should be removed when the patient goes to bed, thoroughly washed and hung up to dry; it is a mistake to wear it during the night. When first introduced, the rubber bandage was applied direct to the surface of the sore without any dressing, but, if this be done, the discharge decomposes beneath the bandage and prevents healing. Hence the ulcer should be first dis- infected and then a suitable dressing—to be mentioned immediately— applied beneath the bandage, an important point with regard to the dressing being to avoid a greasy application, as otherwise the rubber will be spoilt. Another method of getting rid of the exudation, generally employed in the treatment of callous ulcer, may be here referred to, namely, the application of blisters. When a blister is applied to the skin, more blood is sent to the part and the lymph flow is increased; and if a blister be applied around a callous ulcer (the limb, of course, being kept at rest and in the elevated position), it is remarkable how quickly the callous condition disappears, and how soon the edges become soft and in a condition favourable for healing. The essential point in the use of a blister for ulcers is that it should not be applied directly over the raw surface, otherwise the cantharides is apt to be absorbed, and may lead to serious irritation of the kidneys. This must especially be borne in mind in cases of callous ulcer, for many of the patients suffering from this affection are the subjects of Bright's disease. Hence, if emplast. lyttae is to be used, a part corresponding to the raw surface of the ulcer should be cut away and the blister raised round the margin only. For the method of application of blisters, see p. 18. Usually one blister will suffice, and it will be found that by the time the blistered surface has healed the callous condition of the ulcer has disappeared, and its edges are in a satisfactory condition.