LOCAL ANAESTHESIA. 123 An artificially prepared alkaloid, closely allied to cocaine, has recently been introduced. It has been called eucaine, and appears likely to supplant cocaine for many of the purposes for which the latter is used. Solutions of the hydrochlorate of eucaine are less liable to decomposition than salts of cocaine, and, while almost equally efficacious, they seem to be far less likely to give rise to toxic symptoms. For ophthalmic surgery, however, eucaine does not appear to be so satisfactory, as it sometimes gives rise to conjunctival irritation. Eucaine should be used in the same way, and in solutions of the same strength as cocaine, but as its toxic effects are only about two-thirds that of the latter drug, it may be administered in proportionately greater quantities. Infiltration. In 1891 Dr. C. L. Schleich of Berlin introduced quite a new departure in the matter of local anaesthetics. After a series of carefully planned and elaborate experiments, Dr. Schleich found that it was possible to produce a very complete degree of anaesthesia if the tissues were thoroughly infiltrated with a cold, neutral, salt solution, and that the effect was still further enhanced by the addition of minute quantities of certain drugs, such as morphine, cocaine, etc. The formulae for the solutions are :—To one litre or quart of steri- lized water, to which has been added 20 drops of a 5 p.c. solution of carbolic acid, add : No. I, or strongest, solution. Cocaine mur., 2"o gm. Morph. sulph., o'25 gm. Sod. chlor. (sterilized), ------ 2*0 gm. No. 2, or medium, solution. To the litre as above, ^ Cocaine mur., - - - - - - - i"0 gm. Morph. sulph., o"25 gm. Sod. chlor. (sterilized), ------ 2'o gm. No. 3, or weakest, solution. To the litre as above. Cocaine mur., - - - - - - - o'l gm. Morph. sulph., 0'05 gm. Soda chlor. (sterilized), 2"0 gm. As much as 25 c.c. (6 dr.) of No. i, 100 c.c. (3 oz.) of No. 2, and 500 c.c. (15 oz.) of No. 3, may be considered the maximum quantity of these fluids to be used for the average adult. No. 2 solution is used in 95 per cent, of the cases, while No. i is used in highly inflamed and tender parts, and No. 3 only in big operations when more than 5 3 is likely to be required.