TUBERCULOSIS. 246 exercise; the particular form should be such that the patient runs no risk of injury, for a local deposit of tubercle is likely to occur at any spot injured. The question of diet is also of importance; it should be nourishing and easily digestible, and the amount of vegetables, in particular the consumption of potatoes, should be limited. Among drugs there are no specifics against tuberculosis. The only point of importance with regard to them is that only those should be ordered which will increase the nutrition of the body. Of these the best seems to be cod liver oil which may be given pure or in the form of one of the more tasteless emulsions, such as Scott's, Mellin's or M'Kenzie's. As much of the drug should be given as is possible without disordering the digestion. As a rule it is well to begin with teaspoonful doses three or four times a day, and to increase it until it is found that the patient will not bear any more: cod liver oil should be given, however well-nourished or healthy the patient may seem to be. Children as a rule take the emulsions without any trouble. Where pure cod liver oil is used it is probably best to float it on milk. In connection with the administration of cod liver oil a method suggested by Mr. Edmund Owen for administering it to children who resent taking the oil as ordinarily prescribed, will sometimes be found of use. It consists in replacing the ordinary cottonseed oil, in which sardines are preserved, by cod liver oil (a tasteless variety for choice) and serving it on the plate with the fish. The tin is filled up from time to time with the oil, and children who are fond of sardines will often take large quantities in this manner without demur. The drug is apt to disagree with people during warm weather, and the general rule is that it should be intermitted during the summer; cream, fat bacon, olive oil, etc., should be substituted. A drug that is very fashionable in tuberculosis, although it is questionable whether it does any good, is syrup of the iodide of iron, given in doses of from 15 to 25 minims three times a day, mixed with water or milk. Among other drugs, the use of iron, either in the form of tincture of perchloride of iron in 10 or 15-minim doses, or as Blaud's preparation in doses of from 3 to 10 grains, according to the age of the patient, are of value. Tincture of nux vomica is very useful where the appetite is bad; in fact anything that will increase the general nutrition of the patient may with advantage be administered. Guaiacol in doses of i to 5 minims is a drug which is much in vogue at the present time and which seems to be really of service. When exercise cannot be obtained, as may happen when the situation of the disease demands absolute rest in bed, much benefit may be obtained by general massage. This for example may be usefully applied to the extremities when the spine is the seat of the disease, or to the upper extremity or the trunk when the lower limbs are affected, and in this way a considerable amount of exercise can be obtained; it should be combined with plenty of fresh air, which may be obtained by wheeling the patient out on a couch. By these means both the appetite and the general nutri-