37 CAUSES OF ULCERS. interfered with : this is the explanation of the fact, that the great majority of ulcers affect the lower extremities. A granulating wound on the leg is very apt to become the subject of an ulcerative process if the patient continue to walk on the leg, or to stand about much, or even to hang it down. Perhaps one of the most frequent causes of ulceration is the presence of varicose veins, more especially where the veins affected are the small branches in the skin. Under these circumstances, there is a very marked obstacle to the venous return; consequently there is great stagnation of blood and the nutrition of the part is impaired. Again, apart from any venous obstruction, ulceration may also result from imperfect blood supply, as is seen in the cases where there is atheroma of the arteries, and if, to the presence of this disease, the dependent position be superadded, the ulcerative process may go on rapidly. This imperfect blood supply may also be brought about by the pressure of the inflam- matory exudation in the tissues around the ulcer interfering mechanically with the circulation of blood in the part. This is more especially the case where the sore is situated over loose connective tissue, the meshes of which become distended with lymph and which is, moreover, sparsely supplied with blood-vessels. In addition to these causes depending upon defective circulation of blood, ulceration is greatly favoured by a feeble condition of the tissues such as occurs in old age. A wound on the leg in a young subject, even although he has varicose veins and still continues to walk about, is not nearly so likely to lead to an ulcer as is a similar injury in an old person; this is, to a great extent, due to the greater vitality and recuperative power of the tissues in the young. At the same time, in old persons there is generally a diminution in the arterial supply, and thus there is a combina- tion of at least two of the causes of ulceration. A similar result is brought about by anything which temporarily enfeebles the vitality of the part, such as severe and long-continued exposure to cold. This, short of pro- ducing gangrene, may lead to rapid ulceration. Another local cause which leads to ulceration is movement. Where a sore is situated over a muscle, or over a fascia which is in frequent movement, more especially if adherent to either, ulceration is more likely to occur than in one situated elsewhere. Another very frequent cause of ulceration is difficulty in the contraction of the sore. When a wound heals by granulation, an important element of the healing process consists in the diminution in the size of the sore, from the contraction of the newly formed fibrous tissue; when this contraction cannot occur, a time will come, especially if the sore be large, when healing will cease and ulceration will take place. The constant unsuccessful efforts of the new fibrous tissue to contract, seem to irritate the part and arrest the healing. This inability to contract may result from the great size of the sore, or from its adhesion to tissues, such as a bone or a dense fascia, which do not permit of contraction, or from induration of the margin of