207 SEPTIC INTOXICATION. thoroughly irrigated with a non-irritating lotion, such as a 1-10,000 sub- limate solution, or, where the patient is in a very dangerous state, by boracic lotion, or sterilized water; it is well to employ these lotions at a temperature of about 104° F., which acts as a general stimulant, and does not damage the tissues. The stronger antiseptics such as carbolic acid should not be used for irrigation because there is really no possibility of disinfecting the wound by them, and they may be absorbed and render the patient's condition still more serious. The effect of using them is to cause the formation of a layer of coagulated fibrin on the surface of the wound, beneath which the organisms are protected and may grow again. After the wound has been thoroughly washed out, a few stitches are again inserted and one or more large drai?iage tubes introduced to provide free escape for the discharge. The cyanide gauze and salicylic wool is probably as good a dressing as can be applied; it should be changed and the wound washed out again through the drainage tube in the course of a few hours. Whether an anaesthetic should be given for the purpose of opening up and draining the wound depends on the condition of the patient. If he be in a very depressed state it is well to avoid it, as the procedure does not involve any great pain, and the ansesthetic might still further add to the depression. Even in the case of septic absorption from the peritoneum, the abdomen should be opened and washed out. In such cases it must be remembered that the deleterious products will be in largest quantity in Douglas' pouch and in the flanks, and the tubes which are used to wash out the peritoneum should be especially directed to these parts. A useful method of rapidly washing out the peritoneal cavity consists in pouring a sufficient quantity of fluid (sterilized 75 % salt solution at 104° F.) from a large jug into the Fig. 61.—Keith's Glass Drainage Tube. The flange for securing the tube in position is seen at the left-hand end of the figure. abdominal cavity while an assistant holds the edges of the abdominal wound apart. When the abdomen is full, the hand may be introduced among the intestines especially into the flanks and Douglas' pouch, so as to get the fluid thoroughly into contact with all the parts. The excess of fluid is then got rid of by gently compressing the abdominal walls and the process repeated several times. The fluid remaining may finally be taken up by sponges on forceps, introduced into Douglas' pouch, after raising the thorax slightly so as to encourage gravitation downwards. Then drainage tubes, preferably of glass, should be inserted into each flank and into Douglas' pouch. The best type of glass abdominal drainage tube is that known as Keith's (see Fig. 61). The flange at its upper end is made to project