6 INFLAMMATION. vomit the blood which it has swallowed. The wound made by the leech is tri-radiate and does not extend deeply into the skin, and, were there no provision for preventing it, coagulation would occur, and very little blood be obtained from the wound after the leech has detached itself. In the throat of the leech, however, there is a gland secreting a substance which prevents the coagulation of the blood, and it is probable that the cases in which there is much trouble from bleeding after the application of leeches are explained by the fact that this secretion has been left in con- siderable quantity in the wound. Bleeding from leech-bites.—As a rule, bleeding from a leech-bite stops very soon after the leech has been removed. In fact, in many cases warm fomentations have to be applied to the part if it is desired to promote additional bleeding. In some cases, however, the bleeding does not stop, and considerable trouble ensues from difficulty in arresting the oozing which goes on. Where it does not stop of itself, a pad and bandage pro- perly applied will usually suffice, but, if not, the skin around the leech-bite should be pinched up, so as to stop the bleeding temporarily, and then the bite is carefully dried and flexile collodion painted over it and allowed to dry before the pressure is relaxed. If this fails, a hare-lip pin may be passed under the wound and a piece of silk firmly twisted over the pro- jecting ends in a figure-of-eight. Should this be insufficient, it may be necessary to use some styptic, such as perchloride of iron, the small wound being pinched up to arrest the bleeding temporarily and the liquor ferri perchloridi applied to the cut surface. Even this may fail, and, if the bleeding still goes on, it is best to excise the leech-bite altogether, leaving a deeper wound which can be stitched together. The object of excising the leech-bite is to remove the tissue which is impregnated with the material from the leech's throat. In view of the possibility of the haemorrhage proving troublesome, it is not advisable to apply leeches to a part which cannot be compressed against a bone. For instance, they should not be applied to the scrotum; if leeching is required in that situation the leech should be placed on one or other side of the perineum, where pressure can be applied against the pubic bone. Where it is required to apply leeches for affections of the eye, the best plan is to shave a little of the hair from the temple and apply the leech in that situation. Firm pressure can then very easily be applied, if necessary, and the hair when it grows again will cover the mark of the bite satisfactorily. Cases have occurred where, when leeches have been applied late in the evening, and the bleeding has not been noticed, the patient has lost a large quantity of blood by the morning. It is therefore well to apply them in the forenoon, so that bleeding may be readily observed. The second method of blood-letting employed in inflammation is Cupping. For the purpose of actually removing blood, wet cupping is the plan used, but a good deal of benefit is in some cases derived from the employment of Dry Cupping, which consists in the application of the cups without any