TUMOURS. 264 they form round lobulated tumours with an investing fibrous capsule, and on section they resemble fibromata except that they are of a purplish colour. They are generally very vascular, more especially at the periphery, where large venous sinuses are numerous. They occur in adults, and cause trouble from their size and their tendency to bleed. Treatment.—This depends mainly upon their situation, and the con- sideration of the treatment must, therefore, be deferred until the particular organs in which they occur are dealt with. Neuromata are tumours composed of nerve tissue. True neuromata are very rare, if, indeed, they ever occur; the tumours generally spoken of as neuromata are inflammatory thickenings occurring in the course of nerves, such, for example, as the enlargements at the divided ends, or tumours, such as myxomata, fibromata, ^.or sarcomata, occurring in the neighbourhood of and involving nerves. In connection with these neuro- mata may be mentioned the gliomata, which occur in the central nervous system, and the retina, and which are composed of neuroglia. They are often vascular, and, as a rule, they are not malignant except locally; but the gliomata which occur in connection with the retina are more malignant, and possibly ought to come under the definition of sarcoma. The treatment of neuromata will be considered among the affections of nerves. The treatment of glioma is removal wherever possible; the subject will be dealt with more fully in connection with tumours of the brain. Ang'iomata or neevi are composed of vascular tissue, and the essential element in them is the formation of blood-vessels. The latter are partly of new formation and are partly pre-existing vessels much dilated and thickened. These tumours are divided into two groups—the simple or capillary, and the cavernous or venous form. In the capillary angioma the vessels are distinct and have well-defined Avails, and the tumour simply consists of a mass of dilated tortuous capillaries, derived not only from dilatation of old capillaries but also from the formation of new ones. There is no definite capsule, and, therefore, the tumours are not clearly marked off from the surrounding tissues, their outline being irregular and somewhat lobulated. They occur usually in the skin, and may be either upon its free surface or in its substance, and they may spread from the skin to the subcutaneous tissue. The tumour generally presents a bright red colour, but where the circulation is slow it may be somewhat bluish. The cavernous angioma, the so-called venous naevus, occurs in the skin, subcutaneous tissue, or muscles, and, like the corpus cavernosum, is composed of erectile tissue. This is made up of large spaces comuni- cating with the blood-vessels and separated from each other by septa of unequal thickness containing fibrous tissue, remains of the original tissue, elastic fibres, striped and unstriped muscle, fat cells, vasa vasorum, lymphatics, and nerves, the blood spaces themselves being lined with