WOUNDS. soap and 1-20 carbolic acid solution, or still better, a 1-20 watery solution of carbolic acid containing g^^^th part of corrosive sublimate (this we have already referred to as the "strong mixture"). This cleansing should be done with great thoroughness, and several minutes should be devoted to it; in the first place the washing should be done with the hands, and afterwards the skin should be scrubbed with a nail-brush which has been soaked for some time in the strong mixture. Indeed, wherever it can be managed, the purification of the skin should take place some hours before the operation, and a piece of gauze soaking in 1-20 carbolic acid solution should be fixed over the part so as to prolong the disinfection; in any case, however, the process should be repeated immediately before the operation. Before the incision is made the strong mixture remaining on the surface of the skin should be washed away with a 1-2000 sublimate solution. It is always necessary to purify a wide area of the skin all around the neighbourhood of the operation wound. Precautions.—In children or those suffering from pyrexia (for example, hectic fever), it is advisable not to wrap the part up in a carbolic dressing after disinfection, as the drug is very apt to be absorbed and may lead to dangerous symptoms of poisoning. The carbolic acid must no doubt be used for the disinfection of the skin immediately before the operation, but then only very little if any absorption will occur; in these cases the wet gauze or cloth which is afterwards put on to continue the disinfection should be simply soaked in a 1-2000 sublimate solution. Disinfection of the Hands.—The disinfection of the hands of the operator and his assistants is also a point which must be scrupulously attended to. Special attention must be directed to the thorough cleansing of the nails, by the removal of the dirt beneath them, and of the old dead epithelium in the folds about them. The disinfection should not be limited to the fingers, but should involve the whole hand, wrist and forearm, as far as the elbow. It must be carried out in precisely the same manner as that employed for disinfecting the patient's skin: first by washing the hands thoroughly with hot water and soap, then soaking them with turpentine, and finally using a nail-brush with soap and strong mixture. The nails should be cut short, and all dirt and epithelial dkbris beneath and around them removed by a suitable nail-cleaner. The process of disinfection should last at least ten minutes, and after it is complete, the hands should not be dried upon a towel, but should be rinsed in a 1-2000 sublimate solution, and a basin of this should be at hand so that the hands may be frequently dipped in it during the course of the opera- tion. It is very often the custom after disinfecting the hands to wipe them on a dry towel, but unless the latter be perfectly aseptic, this is simply to cover them again with dust. We strongly recommend that the hands should never be allowed to dry after disinfection, but should always be kept wet with a 1-2000 sublimate solution, the blood being frequently washed off the hands by means of this solution during the course of the operation.