165 TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. solutions. If these wet antiseptic towels are placed all around the area of operation, instruments laid down upon them do not become contaminated, and the same is the case if the hands of the operator or his assistants rest upon them. It is well to see that the preparation of these towels is thoroughly carried out, and what is usually done at our hospitals is that the towels are boiled and then put to soak in hot 1-20 carbolic acid solution two or three hours before the time fixed for the operation; they are taken out of this immediately before use, immersed in a 1-2000 sub- limate solution, and then lightly wrung out and applied directly to the field of operation. In private practice, except in operations of emergency, it is quite easy to instruct a nurse to have this done. When towels are prepared in this vvay, their asepticity may be thoroughly relied upon. When an operation has to be done in a hurry, it will suffice to thoroughly soak the towels in hot 1-2000 sublimate or 1-20 carbolic acid solution, provided they are not wrung dry. On the whole it is better, whether the towels are put to soak first of all in a 1-20 carbolic solution or not, to wring them out in a 1-2000 sublimate solution before they are laid around the operation wound. A solution of 1-20 carbolic acid, especially if it be not quite pure (as is commonly the case if obtained from the ordinary chemist), when applied to the skin, is apt to irritate it, and may be followed by absorption of the drug, whereas this does not occur when a 1-2000 sublimate solution is substituted. The clothes and blankets in contact with the patient must be covered with mackintoshes (the most convenient are those made of thin jaconet), and outside these, towels, prepared as just described, should be spread in all directions, so that nothing can by any chance be laid on septic objects, such as blankets, sheets, etc. During the operation also the instruments should be handed to the surgeon direct from the antiseptic solution in which they lie, and although the small amount of carbolic acid which might enter the wound from the forceps, knives, etc., will not really do any harm, it is as well, in order to avoid unnecessary irritation, to rinse the instruments before using them in a 1-2000 sublimate solution, basins of which, as has already been mentioned, should always be standing by the side of the operator and his assistants. After an instrument has been used it should be rinsed in the sublimate solution before being again employed. A word of caution may be given concerning the manner of handing ligatures and sutures to the surgeon. It is too frequently the custom to seize the ligature by one end, and hand it with the other hanging free. The consequence is that, if the thread be long, its free end is very likely to come into contact with some unpurified object, such as the blanket or an article of clothing, in transit, and sepsis may thus be introduced into the wound. All ligatures and sutures should either be given to the surgeon with the free end coiled up in the palm of the hand, or one end should be taken in each hand, and special care taken to see that the intervening portion does not touch any unpurified object. Similarly, when there is a large wound to be sewn