ANAESTHETICS. 9?. it is either physically impossible to apply the facepiece, or else there is some danger that the actual cautery will ignite the vapour. For the reasons given above (see p. 85), this universal use of ether is at first likely to prove disappointing in the hands of those whose training and practice has not thoroughly accustomed them to the drug. When only occasionally called upon to anaesthetise, it is better for the administrator to limit his use of ether in accordance with the suggestions already made (see p. 86). If these lists be carefully studied, it will be seen that ether is not recommended for children under twelve, or for adults over sixty; nor for the fat and plethoric; nor for those suffering from gross cerebral lesions; nor in cases of lung disease; nor in acute heart disease, atheroma, or renal disease; nor in operations about the head and neck, mouth and tongue. At first sight, it may appear that this list of exceptions reduces the available cases Fig. 20.—Clover's Small or Portable Ether Apparatus. C, Ether chamber; S, Opening through which the chamber is filled with 2 ozs. of ether ; F, Padded facepiece ; B, Reservoir bag ; p. Pointer or index, which is a fixture. To increase the proportion of ether inhaled, the chamber is rotated so as to bring the figures i, 2, etc., over the index in succession. to a minimum, but in practice this will not be found to be the case, and, further, it must be pointed out, that in by far the majority of cases the objection applies rather to the primary induction; in nearly all it is possible to use ether to maintain the anaesthesia. Ether should always be given, if possible, in cases involving much shock, and in which a profound degree of narcosis is required, as in operations about the rectum, on the genito-urinary tract, or on big joints. Operations upon the abdomen are on the border4ine, and the anaesthetic chosen must be largely determined by the predilection of the surgeon (see p. 85). With regard to the preparation of the patient, nothing need be added to what has already been said upon the subject (see p. 82). It is