240 CHANCROID, OR SOFT SORE. The cauterisation may be effected in the milder cases by means of nitric acid; if, however, the affection be extensive and spreading rapidly, the actual cautery may be necessary. The destruction of the affected parts must be carried out boldly; the best plan is to put the patient under an anaesthetic, clip away all sloughs and undermined skin, and then cauterise the whole area thoroughly, going quite wide of the disease both in its super- ficial area and in depth (see also p. 59). The after-treatment is the same as that just described. General Treatment.—The patient must have nutritious diet, and should rest as much as possible, so as to avoid irritation of the inguinal glands. Certainly all violent exercise, such as games, prolonged standing, bicycling, etc., should be strictly prohibited. In the severer cases, rigid confinement to bed, with the administration of quinine and diffusible stimulants are absolutely necessary. The bowels should be kept acting regularly. Treatment of Inflamed Glands.—As soon as signs of inflammation of the inguinal glands become evident, the patient should be put to bed and warm fomentations applied to the groins; if the primary sores are doing well, it not uncommonly happens that the glandular inflammation subsides. We do not advise the peri- and intra-glandular injection of carbolic acid and other substances advocated by some surgeons, as they are painful and generally inefficient. Most careful watch should however be kept and, if it become evident that suppuration is occurring, excisiofi of the mass of glands and the abscess in them should be at once resorted to. By this means much time is saved, and a long illness avoided, for if these abscesses are once allowed to open spontaneously, the surface may become chancroid and healing is then very slow and is often further delayed by the formation of fresh abscesses in the neighbouring glands. This can be avoided by making, in the first instance, a clean sweep of the affected glands and the neighbouring tissues. It is not sufficient to simply shell out the enlarged glands, because the peri-glandular tissue very soon becomes affected and suppuration may occur in it. Care should also be taken to cut wide of any abscess that may have already formed. After the skin has been thoroughly shaved and disinfected, a free incision is made over the mass, and then the knife is carried through the healthy fat at some distance from the glands and, after a little dissection, the whole mass is lifted out; should the skin be adherent, the infiltrated area is enclosed in an oval incision and removed with the glands. After an operation of this kind it is well to insert a drainage tube at the outer angle of the wound and to retain it for a few days in case any infection of the operation-wound has occurred. Sometimes, however, the case is not seen until a large abscess is present, and then the surgeon must content himself with making a small opening into it, inserting through this a small sharp spoon, scraping the wall of the