199 BURNS AND SCALDS. a piece of butter-muslin with it and laying it upon the part. The effect of the acid is to coagulate the albuminous fluid oozing from the sore, and thus to form a protective layer over the exposed nerve-ends in the skin. The application should be made once or twice daily, according to the size of the burn and the amount of discharge from it. If lint or muslin be used, it should be soaked off by warm boracic lotion. We have found the drug useful in burns of the smaller and more superficial variety : for the more severe ones we prefer the method just described. It is especially necessary to warn the practitioner against certain appli- cations for burns which are commonly recommended. Carron oil for example (a mixture of linseed oil and lime water), is a filthy application and is responsible for a great deal of the mortality after burns : the use of poultices or water dressings and dusting with flour are equally bad. As far as possible, the wound must be treated aseptically. Should the case come under observation with a foul sloughing wound, or should the attempt at disinfection fail, and the wound become septic, the best method of treatment probably is the water bath. If, where the trunk is affected, the burn be large, very painful, or accompanied by consti- tutional disturbance, the patient is placed in a bath, the water (at a tempera- ture of 100° F.) containing a small quantity of an antiseptic, such as Condy's fluid or sanitas, and being changed every three or four hours. The patient should be taken out of the bath at night, and wet boracic lint dressing applied; this consists of boracic lint soaked first in 1-20 carbolic acid, and then in warm saturated boracic solution to wash away the carbolic ; it is applied wet, and covered with a piece of mackintosh (previously dipped in a 1-20 carbolic acid to asepticise it, and subsequently in boracic lotion). Next morning the patient is again placed in the water bath, and kept in till evening, and this method is continued until the sloughs have separated and the inflammation has subsided. There is then no further necessity for the bath, and the boracic dressings, antiseptic ointments or protective and boracic lint, applied as described for healing ulcers (see p. 47), should be substituted. Where the extremities are affected, the special baths already described may be used (see p. 33). If the burn be of any size skin-grafting should be employed (see p. 50) as soon as any sloughs have separated and the wound has begun to granulate. This proceeding is especially necessary in burns, because the sores resulting from them have a peculiar tendency to contract. Sores left by burns heal much more slowly than open wounds made by the knife, probably because the heat not only destroys the vitaHty of the part immediately acted upon, but also impairs that of the tissues around, so that in the early stages the vital processes in them are not nearly so active as usual. Therefore, there is much more granulation tissue formed, and much greater subsequent contraction. Where the slough is situated over a joint or a serous cavity, and there is reason to fear that either may be opened when the slough separates.