6l TREATMENT OF INDIVIDUAL ULCERS. and the use of massage (see p. 22) and electricity to the whole limb should be had recourse to with the view of improving the nutrition and increasing the circulation. The electric current may be employed in one of two ways. The first and simplest plan consists in covering the whole of the ulcerated area with a layer of gauze or absorbent wool, thoroughly wetted with salt solution or boracic lotion, and applying to this the negative pole of an induction coil, the positive pole being applied to the spinal column. A gentle current of about 5 milliamperes should be used at first; if this causes pain it must be diminished. The apparatus should be so arranged that the circuit can be opened and closed about 30 times per minute. The sittings should occupy from 10 to 15 minutes and may be made daily. The strength of the current may be cautiously increased up to 10 or more milliampferes, but it should never be strong enough to cause pain. The other method is to immerse the affected limb in a small electrical bath. This may be improvised by using a china basin or wooden tub or trough of suitable size, which is filled with salt solution and in which the affected part is immersed. The electrodes, which should be in the form of flat copper plates connected with the poles of an induction coil, are placed on either side of the limb, the negative being in direct contact with the ulcer. A current sufficiently weak for the patient to bear without discomfort must be employed. This method is more cumbrous than the first and offers no advantages over it. 10. The Perforating Ulcer of the Foot is often obstinate under treatment. The limb may be placed on a splint, at rest in the elevated position for a long time, without the slightest attempt at healing occurring. One reason for this is no doubt the tendency of the epithelium to fill up the cavity and decompose there, or else to spread down the edges of the ulcer. The most satisfactory plan in these cases is to excise the edges and sides of the ulcer, cut away the whole of the callosity around, scrape out the bottom of the ulcer until sound tissue is reached and then disinfect the whole surface with undiluted carbolic acid (see p. 46) and dress it anti- septically. Healing will not begin until the cavity of the ulcer has filled up with granulations. Therefore it is well to promote granulation by stuffing the cavity lightly with cyanide gauze which by its irritation greatly favours this occurrence. The gauze should be sprinkled over with iodoform and changed daily. When the granulations have grown nearly up to the level of the surrounding surface some non-irritating dressing such as the quarter-strength boracic ointment (see p. 48) may be substituted for it. In cases where the ulcer is extensive, skin-grafting may with advantage be employed. (11) Lastly, with regard to the ulcers which are dependent on con- stitutional conditions, more especially diabetic ulcers, the local treatment must be carried out on the same principles, namely, disinfection, position, and careful dressing. Of dressings, boracic fomentations are the best at first, but these ulcers will not do well unless something is done to