TUMOURS COMPOSED OF THE MORE COMPLEX TISSUES. 269 carbolic acid, so that the thread does not come into contact with it, as otherwise it would cause a burn and give rise to a scar. After the thread has been passed through it is withdrawn, pressure is applied for a little until the bleeding stops, and then the puncture is covered with collodion. The old method of vaccinating upon these minute nsevi is a good one if they are very small, superficial, and in a suitable situation. {(i) Injections.—Another method is by injection of coagulant materials. The drugs used—carbolic acid, perchloride of iron, etc.—act by causing thrombosis of the vessels and subsequent obliteration; before injecting any coagulating material into a nfevus it should, however, be an invariable rule to see that all connection with the general circulation is completely cut off, as otherwise fatal embolism or even general thrombosis may occur. In parts such as the ear or lip this may be done by grasping the whole thickness of the part on the proximal side of the ngevus with rubber-covered forceps. In most cases, however, the only safe plan is to pass a ligature or series of ligatures beneath the base of the nsevus, so as to completely command the circulation through it, and then to tighten them up. When the nsevus is large, its base may be transfixed with a hare-lip pin, and then, at right angles to this pin and beneath it, a straight needle is passed through the tumour, carrying a long stout silk ligature, the ends of which are of equal length. The thread is drawn well through, and divided close to the needle, and thus two ligatures are left traversing the tissues beneath the base of the nsevus. The ends of one of these threads are brought round beneath one end of the hare-lip pin and tied as firmly as possible, and the same is done on the other side with the second thread, and in this way the nsevus is completely strangulated. The object of the hare- lip pin is to make sure that the thread encircles the base of the ngevus ; without it, it is almost certain to slip, and the circulation will not be properly commanded. When the nsevus is so extensive that the above method would not properly command the circulation through it, its base may be tied off by a succession of ligatures till the whole tumour is thoroughly strangulated. Thus, in the case of a nsevus involving the lower lip, the method will be clear from the accompanying diagrams (Figs. 65 and 66); we may say in passing that this method of ligature is of use in other cases, such as in the removal of portions of the omentum. A needle carrying a long thread, the ends of which (A and B) are of equal length, is passed through the whole thickness of the lip beyond the nasvus and near one side of the growth. It is then passed back from within outwards at a little distance away, a sufficiently long loop being left, then back again as shown in the diagram, as often as is necessary to effectually strangle the base. Thread A is then cut at b, c, and d, and thread B at / and g, and we are thus left with a series of ligatures, ab, b'c, c'd, ef, f'g, g'h, which, when firmly tied, completely cut the part off from the general circulation. If it be desired to command the circulation through a very extensive nsevus situated upon