59 TREATMENT OF INDIVIDUAL ULCERS. chiefly of use in that form of weak ulcer where the surface is quite inactive and shows few and imperfect granulations. They are useless in the cases with exuberant or cedematous granulations. It is doubtful how far benefit results from these applications, and they are not to be recommended in the ordinary treatment of ulcers, and should only be used in the particular form of weak ulcer to which we have alluded, and which is most often associated with general antemia. Where the sore is cedematous, the best dressing is weak boracic ointment; the protective and boracic lint tend to increase the oedema by confining the moisture. As soon as any of these ulcers get into a healthy condition, skin-grafting should be employed. (4) Irritable Ulcer.—The intense pain associated with this form of ulcer is best met by cauterising the ulcer thoroughly by means of nitrate of silver, so as to completely destroy the sensitive terminations of the nerve. Treat- ment on the principles recommended for a simple ulcer should be subse- quently carried out. Where quite small, complete excision with immediate skin-grafting is the best treatment for these afi'ections. (5) The Phagedenic Ulcer.—This ulcer requires energetic treatment in order to destroy the infected tissues, and this may be done, after the slough has been scraped away by a sharp spoon or clipped off by scissors, either by means of the actual cautery (see p. 19), by potassa fusa (see p. 20), or by nitric acid. Where nitric acid is used its action should be neutralized, after the lapse of a few minutes, by pouring on the wound a strong solution of ordinary washing soda; this should be done until effervescence, from the liberation of carbonic acid gas, ceases. Of these the actual cautery is the best. It should be heated to white heat, and the parts thoroughly destroyed by it. By means of the cautery, (Paquelin's cautery will also answer the purpose,) one can gauge the amount of destruction done ; whereas caustic potash generally destroys more of the tissue than is really necessary; whilst the coagulation of the albumen caused by nitric acid interferes with its action, so that, as a rule, it does not extend sufficiently deep. Sub- sequent to the application of the escharotic, undiluted carbolic acid should be sponged over the surface, and a dressing of strong carbolic oil (i to 5), as directed on page 47, should be applied. Here the first object is not to obtain healing, but to eradicate a most dangerous bacterial poison, and one which spreads with intense rapidity. (6) Varicose Ulcer must be treated on the lines already mentioned (see p. 43), namely, by rest in the elevated position, disinfection of the sore, the application of protective and boracic lint dressing, or boracic ointment, and by subsequent skin-grafting. But the patient should not be allowed to go about again till the varicose veins have themselves been treated. As long as the limb is elevated the presence of varicose veins does not delay the healing, but directly the patient begins to walk about they favour in a very marked degree the subsequent breaking down of the ulcer. As, how- ever, under proper conditions, the varicose veins do not interfere with