191 LACERATED WOUNDS. wound. These structures are more or less completely deprived of blood supply, and will slough should the wound become septic; in fact, they will probably do so in any case. The wound is usually much soiled, especially in machinery accidents, where dirt and grease are certain to be present, and great care must be taken in disinfection. Causes.—These wounds are inflicted by a blunt instrument, which tears the tissues rather than contuses them; the most typical example of this is in machinery accidents, where a toothed instrument catches the skin and tears it off for a considerable distance. Lacerated wounds are always to some extent contused wounds, and a contused wound may also be a lacerated one. Treatment.—The patient should be put under a general anaesthetic, all tags clipped away, and the part thoroughly scrubbed with a nail-brush and strong mixture, or even sponged with undiluted carbolic acid. It is useless to stitch the torn skin together; the most that should be done is to put in one or two stitches to keep the flaps somewhat in position. If there be any tension, it will certainly lead to sloughing of the flaps, as their vitality is already much interfered with. The ordinary gauze dressings should be used at first; should suppuration and much local disturbance occur, recourse must be had to irrigation with weak Condy's fluid or sanitas, in the manner already described (see p. 30). Many of these wounds will, however, heal by blood clot if they are small and are rendered aseptic by the purification described above; at any rate, the greater part will heal in this manner, though possibly after a time granulation may form towards the centre of the wound from the irritation of the dressing. When the wound is aseptic, there will be comparatively little separation of sloughs either from the skin or from the deeper parts, the aseptic slough, like a blood clot, acting as a mould in which new material is formed. Where much skin is torn off an extremity, the question of amputation has to be considered. Such wounds, for instance, as those where the whole skin of the forearm has been lost, often do not heal at all on account of the large size of the sore, or if they do, so much contraction results that the movements of the joints are permanently interfered with, the result in bad cases being so unsatisfactory that amputation is often considered better practice. It is well, however, to bear in mind that many of these cases can be got to heal by skin-grafting, and a very useful limb may result, so that the former rule of amputating in all cases where the loss of skin from a limb is very extensive, does not apply so absolutely at the present time. In many cases, by allowing the wound to granulate, and then, after scraping away the soft granulating material which has already formed, applying Thiersch's skin grafts (see p. 50) before contraction has taken place, extensive wounds can be induced to heal without any marked contraction; and there is always this to be said in favour of attempting to save limbs which at first do not promise well, that amputation can be performed later on should it be found that, after all, the functional result is not satisfactory.