CHAPTER XIII. CHANCROID, OR SOFT SORE. Definition.—Chancroid is an infective ulceration due to a bacterium, and generally occurs on the prepuce or glans penis. The affection is locally inoculable, and frequently leads to infection of the neighbouring glands, but general infection never follows. Symptoms.—As the result of infection there is a local sore which begins as a pimple a few hours after inoculation, rapidly enlarges and ulcerates, and gives rise to other sores in its vicinity. These extend rapidly, and may cause considerable loss of substance; when on the frenum they may perforate or destroy it; when beneath the prepuce they may give rise to a good deal of oedema and phimosis or paraphimosis; and where no attention is paid to cleanliness they are apt to lead to sloughing and a condition of phagedena. The inguinal glands very quickly become infected, and the glands nearest the genitals enlarge and often suppurate; suppuration may occur in one gland after another, so that the affection may be a long and tedious one. When these abscesses are opened or burst spontaneously, the skin is frequently found to be undermined for a considerable distance; extensive chancroid ulceration may occur in the groin, which takes a long time to heal, and which may cause widespread destruction of tissue. The organism causing the chancroid ulceration is said to be purely aerobic; a fact that may explain the extensive and rapidly spreading ulceration that so often occurs after these abscesses have burst or have been simply incised. Treatment.—When we bear in mind the serious results that may follow chancroids, and the length of time that the patient may be laid up and unable to follow his occupation, it is evidently very important to endeavour to cut short the disease at as early a stage as possible. Local Treatment.—Hence, as soon as the diagnosis is made (and the chief point is to distinguish chancroid from herpes prteputialis on the one hand, and syphilis on the other), an attempt should be made to destroy the sore by caustics, of which the best is probably nitric acid. In applying caustics care must be taken to prevent fresh infection of the surface, and they should never be employed unless the sores can be readily exposed.