225 CHELOID. by the application of collodion, or by a firm bandage. Perhaps the simplest method is to paint the scar with ordinary (not flexile) collodion ; as this dries it contracts, and by compressing the small vessels diminishes the blood supply of the scar. This method is strongly to be recommended in the early stage ; but it is not likely to do so much good when the cheloid condition is well developed. In applying pressure of any kind it should be borne in mind that ulceration is very apt to occur in large cheloids, and even the application of collodion may sometimes precipitate the onset of the ulceration. Cod liver oil should also be regularly administered internally, a dessert- spoonful to a tablespoonful of cod liver oil or one of its emulsions, such as Scott's or Mellin's, being given about four times a day. Some surgeons recommend scarification of the scar with a lancet or a fine electric cautery point, but it is doubtful whether any real permanent benefit results from this plan of treatment. The question of the advisability of excisitig a cheloid is one which con- stantly arises and which has been much debated, but the great objection to the procedure is that the scar resulting from the operation will almost certainly become cheloid in its turn; this applies not only to the scar itself but also to the stitch tracks adjacent to it. When a considerable area of skin has been excised, and there is so much tension on the stitches that they cut their way through the skin for some distance, a very unsightly appearance is presented should they become cheloid. At the same time in certain cases it seems to be quite justifiable to remove the mass even at the risk of linear cheloid subsequently resulting. For example, where there is a broad ulcer- ating cheloid leading to much contraction and great inconvenience, it is well to excise it, so long as the skin around is sufificiently lax to allow the edges to come together without marked tension after they have been freely undermined; the old broad scar is thus converted into a linear one. In doing this it should be borne in mind that the stitch tracks will have a great tendency to become cheloid, and, therefore, if possible no sutures should be inserted through the skin; the method of buried stitches, re- commended on p. 154, should be employed, deep catgut stitches being inserted, through the subcutaneous tissue only, from the points where the undermining ceases on the one side to the corresponding points on the other, so as to relieve the tension on the edges. The latter are then approximated by stitches passing through the fat and the deeper parts of the skin, the superficial margins being brought together by strips of gauze fixed on with collodion. A very narrow cicatrix is thus obtained, and should this become cheloid it is not a matter of great importance; sometimes the condition does not recur. Excision of cheloids cannot, however, be recom- mended when a large raw surface will be left, as, even if this be skin-grafted, the condition is apt to reappear at the edges of the grafts, and spread over the whole surface of the wound. p