SPECIAL CASES. 109 inserted (Fig. 31), the anfesthesia being then maintained through the tracheal opening. Patients with enlargred th3rroids are very liable to sudden attacks of syncope while taking anaesthetics, but, on the other hand, it is really remarkable what a very small quantity of anaesthetic will suffice to keep such patients thoroughly under. In thyroidectomies, therefore, I frequently use a Junker's apparatus throughout, giving but very little of the anaesthetic, only just enough to restrain the retching and vomiting to which such patients appear to be particularly prone. Abroad, local anaesthesia in the shape of cocaine is largely employed in these operations, but it appears to me to be quite possible, that the success of this drug in these cases is in some measure due to the difference in the type of the patients, as compared with those seen in this country. In all these operations about the head and neck, some trouble is experienced in preventing the hair from falling into the wound, and in keeping the blood from the hair. I have adopted the device shown and explained in Figs. 32 and 33. A <:vr ■ . fB Figs. 32 and 33.—Protection of the Hair in Operations about the Head AND Neck. The middle of the folded edge of a carbolised towel (Fig. 32) is placed over the forehead, carried down over the ears, the ends A and B crossed behind the occiput, and then brought over the forehead again. The points C may be used for including the stray ends of hair. The appearance will be as in Fig. 33. In severe operations in which much shock is to be anticipated,, it is of importance that the anjesthesia should be tolerably profound throughout. Among such operations I would particularly enumerate those affecting the big joints, those involving manipulation of the spermatic cord, operations upon the genito-urinary and rectal areas, and abdominal opera- tions. When patients are losing much blood, or are suffering from primary shock or much prostration, the strength of the vapour inhaled may be considerably diminished. Alcoholics are troublesome subjects to anesthetize. They are apt to struggle very violently, to become very livid, and unless reduced to a dangerous degree of narcosis, they are often very restless. This is especially the case when ether is used. Their tissues are often much degenerated,, so that in choosing an anaesthetic for such patients it must be remembered that they are prematurely aged. Acute or far advanced cases should perhaps be started with A.C.E., and ether gradually added. C Fig. 32. Fig. 33-