TUMOURS. 262 with sometimes in the soft tissues, such as the testicle or the parotid, and in which chondrification occurs; it is a very malignant form. Treatment.—The treatment of sarcomata should in all cases be free excision. Special care must be taken to see that any capsule that the tumour possesses is completely taken away, and in fact it is well to ensure that a considerable area of healthy tissue beyond the capsule is included in the removal. Where the sarcomata arise in connection with bone, amputation is generally necessary, and in cases of periosteal sarcoma it is moreover advisable to amputate through the joint above the bone affected, because it will be found on microscopical examination that the growth generally spreads in the periosteum to a considerable distance beyond the naked-eye limits of the tumour, and recurrence is very likely to take place if amputation be performed in the continuity of the bone. Myeloid tumours however form an exception to the rule that sarcomata of bone call for amputation. Such a procedure is rarely called for in them. If the growth be of any size and occupy the whole thickness of the bone, a free excision of the affected area will suffice: where the growth is in the articular end a partial excision of the joint will be called for. Where however the growth is small and only occupies a small part of the thick- ness of the bone, so that sufficient bone will be left to bear the weight of the body, it is not even necessary to excise. The growth may in these cases be thoroughly scraped out without much fear of a recurrence, though it is well, perhaps, to take away a thin slice of the wall of the cavity. The progrnosis in all these tumours, if left to themselves, is very grave. With the exception of the myeloid sarcoma they are, under any circumstances, always dangerous to life. On the whole, the result of opera- tion is more favourable than in carcinoma, except in the case of melanotic sarcoma and the osteo-sarcomata, which are extremely malignant forms. With regard to the others, although recurrence is not at all infrequent, it is very often only local, and in most cases these secondary tumours may be removed again and again as soon as they appear. In all cases a wide sweep must be made of the parts, and a considerable amount of the tissues around must be taken away. There must be no attempt in any case to shell the growth out of the capsule. As to the mixed forms, such as myxo-sarcoma and fibro-sarcoma, the treatment is the same as for the others. TUMOURS COMPOSED OF THE MORE COMPLEX TISSUES. Amongst the tumours composed of more complex tissues are those consisting of lymphatic tissue, or lymphomata, of muscular tissue or myomata, of nerve tissue or neuromata, of blood-vessels or angiomata, of lymphatic vessels or lymphangiomata, and complex tumours and cysts. Lymphomata are composed of lymphatic tissue and occur primarily in glands or in parts where lymphatic tissue is normally found; they