WOUNDS. 174 •command. In ordinary private practice, not only is it almost impossible to carry it out in all its details, but, as a single error may invalidate the whole proceeding, and as no corrective is possible, the plan may be positively harmful. Causes of Failure to secure Healing by First Intention.— Where all the steps of the antiseptic method have been rigidly adhered to, there is very seldom failure to obtain healing by first intention. When it does not occur, it is, in the majority of cases, because some error has been committed in the management of the case, which has led to the occurrence of sepsis. Sometimes, however, union may fail, in part at any rate, notwithstanding the fact that the wound remains aseptic. Perhaps the most common cause of this is the accumulation of serum in the deeper parts of the wound; these are cases in which a drainage tube should have been employed. If accumulation does take place, it is better to evacuate the serum than to wait in the hope that it will be absorbed; doubtless this sometimes occurs, but in the majority of cases it will find its way out along the line of incision. Wherever, therefore, it is found at the first dressing that there is a collection of fluid in the wound, time is really saved by opening up the incision with a pair of sinus forceps, letting out the fluid and introducing a small drainage tube, which should be left in for two or three days. The fluid will be found to be merely serum or altered blood, and when a drainage tube is introduced and pressure applied outside, the wound closes very quickly. Mention has already been made of the importance of putting in a sufficient number of stitches to prevent gaping of a wound, and also of not tying them so tightly that they will cut through the skin. If a sufficient number of stitches has not been employed, the tension on any individual stitch may be so great that it will cut its way through the skin and allow a portion of the wound to gape. Movement of the part also interferes sometimes with primary union, and in other instances the cause of non- union may be that the knife has been held obliquely in making the skin incision; the bevelled edge of skin thus left on one side often dies. In most cases, however, when union fails, it is owing to the presence of sepsis, and if suppuration occur in a wound made by the surgeon through unbroken skin, the surgeon himself is entirely to blame for its occurrence. Whether it be that he has used impure materials for his ligatures or stitches, or whether, as is commonly the case, he or his assistants have introduced the organisms with their hands, he is equally responsible. This fact cannot "be too widely appreciated. Errors which may be made in carrying out the antiseptic treatment of wounds have already been described, but it is quite impossible to point ■out all the extraordinary mistakes which are daily committed. All that can be said with regard to them is that, unless the surgeon constantly bears in mind the fact that nothing that has not been made aseptic must come in contact either with the wound, the instruments, or the hands that