TUMOURS COMPOSED OF THE MORE COMPLEX TISSUES. 271 products, while later on the new material is gradually absorbed and the portion of the naevus within reach of the action of the acid is cured. When the thickening has subsided, it will be possible to see what portions have not been acted on and require further treatment. Ligature.—We have not described the treatment of nsevi by means of ligature or strangulation alone. This plan, which was formerly much in vogue, is open to so many objections (among which the principal are its tediousness, painfulness, and the almost inevitable introduction of sepsis) that we cannot recommend its use in any case. The strangu- lation of the njevus was effected in a similar manner to that employed for the temporary arrest of the circulation during injection of carbolic acid (see p. 269), but the ligatures were left to cut their way out by a process of ulceration. Lymphangioniata are tumours composed of lymphatic vessels of new formation, and it is often very difificult to separate them from lymphang- iectasis or varicose lymphatics; they are congenital circumscribed tumours. Three varieties are described: (1) The simple lymphangioma consists of dilated lymphatic vessels of the size of capillary blood-vessels; tumours of this nature occur in the perineum, in the sacral region, in the axilla, etc. In some cases the dilated vessels are considerably larger, as is seen in the tongue in one form of macroglossia, and also in the lips, where it goes by the name of macrocheilia. (2) Cavernous lymphangiomata are spongy masses composed of lymph- atic vessels very closely resembling venous nsevi in structure, which are found in the neck, in the sacral region, the lips, etc., generally in the subcutaneous tissues, but often deeper. (3) Cystic lymphangioma is a congenital agglomeration of cysts of various sizes which may or may not communicate with each other or with lymphatic vessels. They are seen most frequently in the neck, where they have received the name of hydrocele of the neck; they are also met with in the perineum, buttocks, thorax, etc. Treatment.—Operative interference, such as excision, was generally followed in former times by suppuration in the lymph spaces, and this led to extremely serious results. Nowadays of course this risk is greatly diminished, but in operating upon these cases it is necessary to be particularly careful as regards asepsis. In the majority of instances electrolysis is the best treatment, and it should be carried out in the same way as for naevi (see p. 266). In other cases, especially in the cystic forms, injections are employed, such substances as iodine or undiluted carbolic acid being used in the same way as for hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. In the smaller forms excision is frequently practised, but, as has just been said, great care must be taken to ensure the asepticity of the wound. Cysts.—This is perhaps the best place to refer to the various forms of cysts; the true cysts are those of new formation, and are not produced