WOUNDS. 170 washed out before the dressing is used. A great advantage of this is that it gets rid of an objection which applies to all dry dressings except those disinfected by heat, namely, that as it comes from the makers the dressing may contain dust and organisms, some of them possibly pathogenic; it is well therefore to disinfect the dressings before use by the application of some antiseptic solution. With the object therefore both of dissolving out the free sublimate and of providing an aseptic dressing, it is well to keep the cyanide gauze in a jar of 1-40 or 1-60 carbolic acid, or, where it has to be used for children (who are very susceptible to the action of carbolic acid), in a 1-4000 or 1-6000 sublimate solution. The dressing kept in this solution is ready for use at any time, and all that is necessary is to wring it out before applying it to the wound. As no impermeable layer, such as mackintosh, is applied outside it, the gauze quickly dries, and in a few hours a perfectly dry dressing is formed. In applying an antiseptic dressing large quantities should be used; there should be no stint whatever, and a wide area of skin all around the wound should be covered. Besides being extensive in area, the dressing should also be of considerable thickness, some 12 to 20 folds of gauze being employed. Pressure.—Before the dressings are put on, the superfluous fluid is squeezed out of the wound and then, after applying the first few folds of the gauze, it is well to place clean sponges wrung out of the antiseptic solution over the area of the wound, so as to approximate the deeper parts and prevent the formation of a cavity. Outside the sponges more gauze is applied, and outside this again a mass of salicylic wool to increase the thickness of the dressing. Salicylic wool, although said to be absorbent, does not absorb at all well, and the object in employing it is not so much to furnish an additional antiseptic layer, though that is an important point, as to provide a material which, while it permits evaporation, at the same time leads to a diffusion of blood and serum over a considerable area of the cyanide dressings. As a matter of fact, however, the discharge from the wound is usually extremely slight where sponges are employed, and seldom reaches the wool at all. Bandages are applied outside the salicylic wool, specially firm pressure being brought to bear over the sponges; and in certain cases, such as operations for hernia, or on the neck, etc., where movements of the thigh or of the head are inevitable, it is well to apply a piece of white elastic webbing round the edges of the dressing so as to prevent them from becoming sepa- rated from the skin by the movements of the patient (see Figs. 53 and 54). When to change Dressings.—A dressing of this kind is usually left undisturbed for about ten days, unless there be some reason for changing it, such as discomfort, fever, the presence of a drainage tube, or any suspicion of sepsis. It is a mistake to change a dressing soon after the operation unless it be really necessary, because the dressing adheres to the skin, and, in pulling it off, the union of the deeper parts may be disturbed,