MODES OF HEALING. 149 second stage, namely, granulation, so that all the structures exposed in the wound become converted into granulation tissue, and the original tissue disappears. This granulation tissue soon becomes arranged in the form of little rosy buds, termed granulations, which on microscopical examination are seen to be composed of embryonic cells with numerous young blood-vessels. These granulations continue to grow and ultimately fill up the wound, and when they are nearly on a level with the skin, epithelium begins to spread over their surface. While this process is going on, the cells of the granulation tissue in the deeper parts of the wound, being protected from irritation by the granula- tions on the surface, develop into young fibrous tissue, and the blood- vessels become obliterated in large numbers. This young fibrous tissue at once begins to contract, and this contraction results in the drawing together of the edges of the wound, so that, even before the spread of epithelium has commenced at the surface, the wound may be very much smaller than it was when first made. When the young epithelial cells begin to spread over the surface, a delicate red line is found around the edge of the sore, because at first the epithelial cells are young, transparent, and only in a single layer, and therefore they allow the red colour of the granulation tissue to show through. At a later period the epithelium becomes thicker, and a bluish appearance is the result; still later, when the epithelium has been formed for some time, the thick layer on the surface becomes macerated and white, like the skin of a washerwoman's hand, and there is a white line formed. Thus, in a healing wound, we have three zones—an outer white line shading off into a blue one, and that again shading off into a delicate pink one. In many cases this pink line is not noticeable until the wound has been dried, when it will be seen that, wtjile the granulations on the surface of the unhealed part begin to ooze and become moist, the red line at the edge of the wound remains dry. The detection of this red line is of great importance, because it implies that healing is in active progress. The ultimate stages of healing by granulation consist in the new epithe- lium becoming thicker and thicker over the surface, so that for some weeks epithelial scales are constantly forming. Later on the wound contracts, and this contraction may lead to very serious deformity. The structure of the scar undergoes continued alteration until ultimately it is composed of a mass of fibrous tissue covered with epithelium, and containing very few blood-vessels; but there is no development in it of the special structures of the skin, such as hairs and sebaceous or sweat glands. During the process of healing by granulation, the patient is exposed to the risk of severe local and general troubles arising from the various infective diseases due to bacteria, which may gain entrance through the open wound. These will be described in their proper place. In any case, unless the wound be aseptic or very small, there is a certain amount