148 WOUNDS. becomes more perfect and contracts, thus shortening the incision and temporarily depressing its surface; the newly-formed vessels also tend to disappear. Later on this new fibrous tissue, where it is situated in the middle of fat, becomes itself converted into areolar tissue, fat cells form in it, and the scar becomes looser. The epithelial cells on the surface begin about the second or third day to multiply and spread over this narrow line of young cellular tissue, so that, in most cases, at the end of the fourth or fifth day, there is a continuous layer of epithelium from one edge of the wound to the other. This process is termed primary union, or healing by first intention, and it ought to be aimed at in all cases, because in connection with it there is no general disturbance, no fever, and no septic trouble, while the resulting scar is small and after a time almost unnoticeable. Healing by blood clot.—Where the edges of the wound are not in apposition, the space between the cut surfaces becomes filled with coagulated blood, whilst the surfaces themselves are covered with lymph. Under certain circumstances, where no further causes of inflammation comfe into play, this blood clot remains and forms a mould in which the young cells (the plasma cells) develop and form fibrous tissue and fresh blood-vessels. After a time, when nearly the whole of the blood clot has become organized, epithelial cells begin to spread over this imperfect tissue from the sides. In the case of small wounds it is often found at the end of about 14 days that a thin layer of the top of the blood clot can be peeled off, leaving an epithelium-covered surface beneath. This process may be termed healing by blood clot, and although it is only visible when the edges of the wound do not come together, it occurs to a greater or less extent m almost all wounds of any depth, because the deeper parts of a wound are seldom in such accurate contact that only a thin layer of lymph divides them; where there is any appreciable separation, blood clot forms between the raw surfaces, and undergoes organization in the manner just described. Hence, even in wounds that heal by first intention, that process as a rule only takes place towards the surface, while the deeper parts heal by blood clot. Healing under a scab.—The process of healing by scabbing is prac- tically the same as heaUng by a thin layer of blood clot. The superficial layer of lymph and blood dries up and forms a scab, which protects the surface of the wound from irritation, and organization goes on in the thin layer of lymph beneath, while epithelial cells spread in underneath the scab. Healing by granulation.—Where wounds are irritated, or where sepsis is present, healing takes place by granulation. Where this happens the edges of the wound have either not been brought together, or, if they have, union by first intention has failed, owing usually to the occurrence of sepsis. As in both the preceding cases, effusion of lymph occurs as the first change, but the process of inflammation does not stop there. Since the causes of irritation continue to act, the inflammation goes on to the