TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. certain amount of shock for some hours, and this is followed, to an extent closely corresponding to the degree of shock, by a certain amount of reaction, so that next day the temperature may be up to 100°, or even to 101° F. At the same time, however, the pain complained of immedi- ately after the operation subsides, and there is no fresh development of it, as would be the case were the temperature due to sepsis. In the course of another twelve to twenty-four hours the temperature falls rapidly to normal. Treatment without Antiseptics.—The other plan, to which we have already referred (see p. 161), in which attempts are made to keep wounds aseptic without the use of antiseptic lotions and dressings, is theo- retically good, but practically it does not yield the results which are obtained by the method just described. It consists in the entire avoidance of the use of antiseptics during the actual performance of the operation, and in the after-treatment of the wound. The skin is purified, and the hands of the assistant and the operator are disinfected very much in the manner already described (see p. 161). The instruments are boiled, but are not afterwards immersed in antiseptics, and there is no antiseptic solution at hand to douche the wound; the swabs consist of pieces of wool disin- fected by heat and used dry, and the towels placed around the operation area are also dry, and have been previously disinfected by heat. There is therefore no possibility of correcting any accident that may happen during the operation, such as dust falling on the towels, or the un- observed contact of the hand with any object that has not been disinfected. The dressings consist for the most part of simple absorbent unmedicated wool, which is disinfected by heat, the box or bag in which the wool is disinfected being only opened at the side of the patient by the surgeon himself; it is obvious that the greatest care is required in handling these if accidental contamination is to be avoided. In the " antiseptic" or Listerian plan, which is the one we have recommended, these accidents, if they do occur, may be automatically remedied, because everything is being frequently soaked in antiseptic solutions. In the so-called "aseptic" plan there is no corrective for these accidents at all, and, consequently, experience shows that the results are not equal to those of the other method. No doubt, theoretically, it ought to be possible to carry out this aseptic plan, and if it were found in practice that the use of antiseptics gave rise to great irritation in wounds, the employment of a cumbrous and troublesome method, such as the so-called "aseptic" one, would be justified. As a matter of fact, however, the irritation of wounds from such antiseptics as we have recommended is inappreciable, and there is not the least reason for the introduction of this troublesome method, more particularly as the results obtained by it are not so good. The method can only be carried out by a skilled and experienced bacteriologist, with all the resources of a large and well-equipped hospital at his