128 WOUNDS. retracts within its sheath. As a result, there is clotting of the blood; as soon as the blood comes in contact with tissues which are injured, or which are not similar to the healthy lining membrane of the vessels, it undergoes coagulation. Consequently, as soon as the blood escapes from the vessel, clotting tends to take place, unless the escape of blood be so free that the clot is swept away by it. In the case of small vessels, clotting occurs where the blood comes in contact with the divided coats, more especially between the vessel and the sheath, and the clot formed there tends by its pressure to still further occlude the ends of the artery. This clot forms a mechanical obstacle to the escape of the blood (provided that the force of the blood stream be not sufificient to expel it), and it very soon extends upwards into the interior of the vessel, in most cases as far as the nearest collateral branch. The result is that a conical wedge of blood clot is formed inside the vessel which is very effectual in bringing about the cessation of bleeding. This, then, is the natural mode of arrest of haemorrhage in divided arteries—the contraction and retraction of the coats, the curling up of the internal and middle coats, the clotting of the blood between the artery and its sheath, compression of the end of the vessel, the formation of a plug or clot in the open orifice, and the ex- tension upwards of a conical wedge of blood clot towards the nearest collateral branch. As time goes on cells spread into this blood clot (in the first instance they are leucocytes, but later on plasma cells, cells derived from the endothelium, and from the connective tissues in the neighbourhood); these cells organize and form fibrous tissue, so that by and bye the divided end of the vessel becomes completely occluded by fibrous tissue and shrinks up. Ultimately a small fibrous cord is all that remains to represent the vessel from the seat of division to the nearest collateral branch. When an artery is only partially cut across, the con- traction and retraction of its coats tend to enlarge the orifice, and so to increase bleeding rather than diminish it, and in these cases the natural haemostatic process cannot occur until the vessel is completely divided. Capillary bleeding ceases simply as the result of coagulation of blood in the capillaries. Venous bleeding, where the vein is only partially divided, ceases as the result of the formation of a small clot outside the vein, and the subsequent sealing of the part with lymph; where the division is complete, clothing occurs and the vein becomes closed by adhesion. It does not at all necessarily follow that a clot will form in the interior of a vein if it be only partially divided. Means of controlling Haemorrhage. Where the artery is large the bleeding will not stop spontaneously, and some artificial means must be adopted to arrest it. Capillary bleeding is, on the other hand, only troublesome in cases of haemophilia, where coagulation of the blood does not take place properly, and very