WOUNDS. 136 sign is the restlessness of the patient: he gasps for air, throws himself about, and uncovers his chest in his desire to get more air into his lungs. Transfusion.—The occurrence of these symptoms should at once lead the surgeon to assume that bleeding is going on, and the dressing should therefore be removed immediately, and, if necessary, the wound opened up with the view of securing the bleeding point. In some cases the patient's condition may be so bad that it is not advisable to search for the bleeding point, lest he die during the attempt to find it, and here pressure must be resorted to for a time. In any case, if the loss of blood be serious, measures must be taken to restore the volume of fluid in the blood-vessels by means of transfusion. The fluid used for transfusion may either be blood, pure or mixed with phosphate of soda or defibrinated, or an indifferent fluid, such as the ordinary normal saline solution. As regards the use of blood, either pure or mixed with phosphate of soda, it has been found that the red blood corpuscles introduced soon die, and have comparatively little effect as carriers of oxygen, and there is great difficulty and risk in introducing pure blood, chiefly owing to the formation of coagula in the instruments, or the detachment of coagula from them giving rise to pulmonary embolism. Even defibrinated blood is not free from this last objection. On the other hand, indifferent fluids answer the purpose of giving the heart enough fluid to contract upon, and so enabling it to drive what blood corpuscles remain through the circulation, thus keeping the patient alive till fresh blood has been manufactured. Hence, nowadays, the most common material for transfusion is the ordinary salt solution used in physiological work, that is to say, a 75 per cent, solution of common salt. In practice, this is roughly about a tea- spoonful of common salt to the pint of water. The water should be boiled and allowed to cool by standing under cover or in ice till it has reached 100° Fahr. In cases of emergency, however, it is not always easy to get boiled water, and if the water has to be boiled and cooled too much time is wasted, and therefore it is necessary to risk the introduction of organisms by mixing the water from the kitchen boiler with a sufficient amount of ice or cold water to reduce the temperature to the required degree. In introducing the saline solution, a vein is exposed (most conveniently the median basilic), a double ligature of catgut is passed around it, divided in the centre, and the two threads separated from one another. An oblique cut is then made through about half the calibre of the vessel between the two threads, and the nozzle of a suitable cannula is inserted into the opening and tied in by the upper of the two threads of the double ligature, the vein also being ligatured below by the lower thread, so that the blood does not escape from the distal end. There may be some difficulty in making the vein prominent in cases where the circulation is very feeble. If it cannot be seen by lightly constricting the upper arm, the best plan is to make a transverse cut across the direction of the vessel down to the deep fascia; the divided ends of the vein can then