20 INFLAMMATION. often occurs too rapidly, and if this be the case it may be necessary to destroy the young epithelium on the surface of the sore from time to time with nitrate of silver, or, if that does not suffice, to apply potassa fusa. If this latter application is required, a stick of potassa fusa is held in a pair of forceps and quickly rubbed over the part, which is then covered with lint steeped in vinegar. In many cases where much pain is present it is remarkable how quickly it disappears after the application of the cautery, and how, if the wound be allowed to heal too rapidly, the pain will at once recur. Another form of cautery is that known as Corrigan's cautery, or the button cautery (see Fig. 5). This is a small, round, metal button fixed in a handle, and is also heated to a white heat and pressed for a moment on the part which is to be burned, and by its means a number of little sores are produced. Where the proper cautery is not at hand, the same effect can be produced by the broad blade of a Paquelin's cautery. An anaesthetic is not, as a rule, necessary in this case. The effect is not so good, at any rate in extensive inflammation of bone, as where the larger cautery is employed. In former times a variety of other methods were used for the production of counter-irritation; for instance, croton oil was rubbed over the part, either alone or in the form of a liniment consisting of one part to eight of oil. This was used chiefly in chest cases, and the result of such an appli- cation is the production of a pustular eruption. Tartar emetic ointment, in a strength of one to five of simple ointment, acts in a similar manner and causes a pustular eruption. Setons were also formerly much used, that is to say, a piece of silk or worsted threaded upon a suitable needle was passed through the skin and left there after the needle had been cut off, the result being that a suppurating sinus formed, which could be kept open for any length of time. The objection to the use of the seton is that a septic wound is produced which may seriously injure the patient, and may be the starting point of one of the acute septic diseases. There still remain two other methods of great value in the treatment of chronic inflammation which require mention. The first of these is free incision into the part, and this in many cases is of the utmost value For example, in chronic inflammation of the periosteum there is nothing Fig. 5.—Corrigan's Cautery and Portable Spirit Lamp for Heating.