TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. l6l excluded without in any way interfering with healing by first intention. The exclusion of organisms during and after the performance of an operation is the essential Listerian principle, and at the present time two plans are adopted for carrying it out. One is that which was originally introduced by Lister and has since undergone many modifications; it consists in the pre- liminary disinfection of skin, hands, instruments, etc.; in the use of antiseptic substances during the course of the operation; and in the subsequent application to the wound of dressings containing antiseptics. In the other method (sometimes termed the "aseptic" method), while in the preliminary stages the procedures are essentially the same, the use of antiseptic sub- stances during the course of the operation and afterwards in the dressings is avoided (see p. 173). There is no real antagonism between the two plans; it is merely a difference in the mode by which the same end is attained. In our opinion, the exclusion of micro-organisms is attained in practice much more certainly by the use of antiseptics than by the other plan. Sources of Infection by Micro-Organisms.—Micro-organisms may enter a wound firstly from the skin in the neighbourhood of the wound itself; secondly, from the hands of the operator or his assistants; thirdly, from the instruments, ligatures, etc., that are used during the course of the operation; and fourthly, from the air. The first three of these sources must receive special attention, and, if they be properly guarded against, it will practically always be possible to obtain an aseptic wound. The organisms which fall in from the air are usually non-pathogenic, and will not grow in a wound the walls of which are brought properly into contact during healing. Disinfection of the Skin.—Micro-organisms are always present in the skin and are most numerous where it is moist, as, for example, in the axillae, in the perineum, between the toes, and in the various folds of the skin. They are found not only in the old epithelium upon the surface, but also about the hairs, and they seem to penetrate to a certain distance into the hair follicles and sebaceous glands; hence their complete eradication is a matter of some little difficulty. In order to get rid of them, anti- septic substances must be used, whichever of the two methods referred to above is to be employed. In the first place, the skin for a considerable distance around the area of the proposed operation wound should be shaved, and the grease which is present on the surface of the skin, and which prevents the action of most antiseptic solutions, must be removed. This may be effected by means of turpentine, benzine, ether, alcohol, etc. We prefer turpentine, which is a very efficient solvent of fat, while at the same time it possesses a certain, though slight, antiseptic action. After the skin has been shaved it should be well rubbed with turpentine, and this should be done with special thoroughness when the operation is in the neigh- bourhood of parts that are normally hairy, as, for example, the axillje or the pubes. After this the part is thoroughly washed and scrubbed with L