67 BED-SORE. to any one point, but is distributed over a considerable area. In using a water-pillow care must be taken that the proper quantity of water is introduced into it; if too much be present the pillow becomes hard and convex, and does not apply itself equably to the skin, so that as much pressure is exerted upon the part as if there were no water-pillow at all, On the other hand, if there be'too little water the patient is not properly supported, and the part comes into contact with the bed. Just sufficient water should be put in to keep the patient floating, and a good method of testing this is to bear one's whole weight on the pillow by pressing the two spread-out hands in the centre; if they just touch the other side of the water-pillow the patient's body will float when laid upon it. The water in the pillow should be tepid when introduced, and it ought to be changed every three or four days, otherwise it is apt to become foul. A large water-pillow must of course be filled upon the bed. The pillow is covered by a drawsheet, and great care should be taken that this is quite smooth and not wrinkled. A second point in the avoidance of bed-sore is to see that the parts most exposed to pressure are kept thoroughly dry. The patient should be turned over twice a day, and the sacrum, or any other region sub- jected to pressure, should be carefully washed and thoroughly dried, and not only dried, but rubbed gently with a soft towel so as to improve the circulation and the nutrition of the tissues. It is then dusted over with powdered boracic acid. {b) Where a bed-sore is threatening, that is to say, where the skin is becoming red, the same measures should be continued, but it is well to relieve the pressure entirely by placing a ring pillow around the part on the surface of the water-bed. In addition to gently rubbing the part with a soft towel, the circulation should be further promoted and the epidermis hardened by the application of some stimulating fluid, such as spirits of wine or whisky. The spirits of wine'is allowed to dry on the skin, which is then rubbed, and subsequently dusted with powdered boracic acid. At a later period, when the skin is becoming raw, lint spread with equal parts of balsam of Peru and resin ointment is a very good application; it should be renewed night and morning, after the part has been washed, dried, and rubbed with alcohol. (^r) When a bed-sore has formed, the slough, and subsequently the sore, must be kept as aseptic as possible. Where the patient is lying on the part it is impossible to carry out one of the chief principles in the treat- ment of gangrene, namely, to favour the drying of the slough ; and that being the case, there is no objection to the use of antiseptic ointments, which is after all one of the most valuable methods of keeping the affected area aseptic. The best is the full-strength boracic or eucalyptus ointment, changed, when the slough has separated, for the quarter-strength boracic. The balsam of Peru, either alone or mixed with white of egg in equal proportions, is also a very good dressing. As soon as possible