201 EFFECTS OF INTENSE COLD. takes place; the vessels become greatly dilated, while if the reaction be too severe, stasis is apt to occur, and may end in thrombosis. Where death results from cold, the most common appearance met with post-mortem is thrombosis of the vessels of the internal organs. Various other local changes are described as the result of cold, the most important being degeneration or inflammation of nerves; these may possibly have something to do with the peculiarly languid ulcerations wliich affect parts that have been exposed to severe cold. The changes probably result from thrombosis or rupture of the nutrient vessels of the nerves. The clinical effects of cold may be divided into three degrees. The first degree corresponds to the first degree of burns; it consists simply of erythema of the part, and is a reactionary phenomenon : the second degree corresponds, at any rate to a great extent, to the second degree of burns : and the third degree, or frost-bite proper, may be taken to represent the remaining degrees of burns. Chilblains.—As the first effect of cold, therefore, we have erythema. The skin becomes of a wine-red or violet colour, which disappears on pressure; the cutaneous circulation is slow and there is some swelling of the skin and subcutaneous tissues, with a feeling of numbness in the part. If heat be applied too suddenly there is, in addition to this feeling of numbness, much itching and pricking. This condition generally disappears in a few days; if, however, the exposure to cold, followed subsequently by the application of heat, be repeated, it may lead to a more or less permanent condition known as chilblain, which, if not properly treated, may become cracked and ulcerated. Ulcers.—The second degree of cold leads to the formation of bullae containing clear or bloody fluid, and these again are apt to be followed by the formation of atonic ulcers which appear quickly and show little tendency to heal; there is also smarting in the part. Where the con dition is yet more chronic we have what are practically ulcerating chilblains, the skin being swollen, oedematous, cracked, and marked by shallow fissures which yield a yellow or brownish liquid, very prone to dry up. These cracks enlarge and form obstinate ulcers. Frost-bite.—The third degree of cold is where the skin and a varying amount of the deeper tissues die ; the skin becomes livid and mottled and numerous large phlyctenulse, containing rusty-coloured serum, are formed, or else sloughing takes place. If warmth be applied too quickly, the condition results in severe inflammation, followed by more or less extensive gangrene. The gangrene in these cases spreads slowly, and there is a tendency to an imperfect and temporary line of demarcation much the same as in the senile form; if opportunity be afforded, the dead part dries up, but the gangrene is not typically a dry one from the first. In other cases the sloughing is quite superficial, and the frost-bite is followed by permanent mal-nutrition, with anaesthesia, analgesia, or even atrophy of the limb, or the formation of perforating ulcers.