ADMINISTRATION OF ETHER. 91 it has been proposed to administer a mixture of nitrous oxide and oxygen. The quantity of oxygen required is very small, and the chief difficulty has hitherto been in designing a method and an apparatus for practical use. Dr. Hewitt, after much patient labour and many experiments, has produced the apparatus shown in Fig. 19. The facepiece being accurately adjusted, the nitrous oxide mixed with the oxygen from one or two holes is breathed from the beginning, and the amount of o.\ygen is cautiously increased by a hole at a time as the inhalation proceeds. The indications for removing the facepiece are a faint stertor, fixation of the eyeball, and insensibility of the conjunctivae. The plan, excellent as it is, requires constant practice before anything like uniform results are obtained, and, in common with the other methods referred to, is open to the objection that unpleasant after-effects are more likely to follow, than is the case when nitrous oxide is administered in the manner suggested in the text. In the above-mentioned plans, it is sought to prolong the inhalation of the feeble anxsthetic, nitrous oxide, by preventing the development of the asphyxial symptoms. A similar result may be obtained by mixing the gas with some other and more powerful anaesthetic, such as ether. This is what is known as the "combined" or " gas-and-ether" method of anaesthesia, which will be referred to after the administration of ether has been described (see p. 97). Administration of Ether. Properties.—The chemical formula of ethylic ether is C4HJ0O; it is sometimes known as sulphuric ether. It is usually recommended to employ only that made from absolute alcohol; but of late years many excellent brands have been placed on the market, and, if carefully selected, their use seems unobjectionable. The substance employed should have a specific gravity of 720; it should be neutral to test-paper, and, on being burnt off or evaporated from a white surface, should leave behind neither colour nor disagreeable smell.^ The so-called "anaesthetic ether" of chemists is intended only for local purposes (freezing), and should never be used for inhalation. The vapour of ether is highly inflam- mable, and even—when mixed with air or nitrous oxide—explosive. Its anaesthetic strength is such, that over 30 per cent, of the vapour is necessary to produce narcosis within a reasonable time (Snow, " On Anaes- thetics "). Cases suitable.—For reasons into which it is unnecessary to enter, it is considered by many that ether can, and should be employed whenever an anaesthetic is called for; practically, the only exceptions which are then admitted, are those in which bronchitis, or some other more or less acute lung trouble is present, or when, as in operations about the mouth, ^ A continuous decomposition is said to go on at the exposed surface of the liquid, the results being objectionable. To obviate this, it has been suggested that a small quantity- of metallic mercury should be kept in each bottle; an insoluble black oxide of mercury is then formed, from which the pure ether can be decanted as required (Prof. Ramsay, Soc. of Anicsthelisls, Nov., 1898). I have myself given this suggestion a prolonged trial. There can be no doubt as to the formation of the black oxide, but I am not quite convinced that the clinical value of the ether is improved.