WOUNDS. 20S beyond the skin, which is closely sutured around the tube: the latter should be long enough to reach down to the bottom of the cavity {e.g. Douglas' pouch) that it is desired to drain. If there be any likelihood of the tube slipping into the abdominal cavity it may still further be secured in position by cutting a small hole in a thin sheet of guttapercha (which must be scrupulously sterilized), stretching it and slipping it over the upper rim of the flanged end. A better plan is to have two holes drilled in the tube and to stitch it to the edges of the incision, in the way recom- mended for indiarubber tubes (see p. 27). The fluid collected in the flanks or in Douglas' pouch will not drain away through these tubes in the ordinary way and some special means must be taken to ensure its removal. This may be done by inserting down the tube a narrow twist of gauze which by capillary action sucks up the fluid and conveys it to the dressing. Besides this, at each dressing, any fluid there may be in the tube may be sucked up by means of a fine catheter, kept rigidly aseptic, attached to a glass syringe. {/}) General Treatment. Stimulants are of course indicated. Brandy must be given by the mouth or per rectum if necessary; in desperate cases it may even be injected subcutaneously. Ether in 10 to 20-minim doses may also be injected; the injection should be made into the muscles, for if it be merely introduced beneath the skin, a slough is apt to form afterwards. Strychnine is also of great value in this condition, a thirtieth of a grain being given subcutaneously and repeated hourly for two or three doses: its action is often increased by the addition to it of a hundredth of a grain of digitaline. Under the combined influence of these drugs the pulse becomes much steadier, for a time at any rate, and the patient's condition improves. Carbonate of ammonia in two or three grain doses, or sal volatile in half- drachm doses, may be given hourly. In fact everything must be done to keep the patient alive for a few hours until the poison in the blood has time to be excreted. When recovery is taking place, the patient should be encouraged to drink large quantities of fluid so as to dilute the poison, and it is well to use the "imperial drink" referred to on page 14, which is also a diuretic. Vomiting is a very distressing feature in some cases and, should it persist, simple effervescing mixtures, such as effervescing citrate of caffeine in tea- spoonful doses will often check it: a mixture containing five minims of dilute hydrocyanic acid with a drachm of liquor bismuthi to the ounce of water is also often useful. When convalescence is established a liberal diet must be ordered and tonics administered. When the wound has granulated further danger from this particular form of septic absorption disappears. TRAUMATIC FEVER. As long as the organisms that have gained access to a wound remain limited to the fluids or dead tissues in it, or are purely saprophytic in nature, they are only capable of giving rise to a condition of septic intoxi-