DIFFICULTIES AND DANGERS. and the respiratory movements, becoming feebler and feebler, at length stop altogether. The ashy-grey pallor and imperceptible pulse, the entire cessation of breathing, the complete relaxation of the tissues, extending sometimes even to the sphincters, the widely dilated pupils, the general aspect of the patient, not unlike the fades hippocratica of actual death, are all very characteristic, and in fact may almost be said to be patho- gnomonic of chloroform poisoning; sometimes, the respiratory failure is almost lightning-like in rapidity, but more often it is gradual and insidious in onset. As is well known, the clinical signs and symptoms of respiratory paralysis closely resemble, and are frequently associated and coincident with those due to syncope, and, on the other hand, obstruction to the breathing sooner or later leads to cardiac failure. In practice, it is often impossible to decide whether the respiratory or the cardio- vascular system was first affected, but it is of the utmost importance that the administrator shou^ be able to appreciate the fact, that certain signs and symptoms are indicative of approaching danger from their very commencement. Such early recognition of symptoms is only possible when the administrator is unceasingly vigilant, and single-minded in his attention to his duties, and the obvious advantage is, that when thus recognized the mere withdrawal of the anaesthetic often suffices to correct the error, without subjecting the patient to any additional risk. It is to the respiratory and the circulatory systems, and especially the former, that the greatest attention should be devoted, and the slightest alteration in either one or the other should be carefully noted and watched. If this be done, it will soon be seen that sigrns of danger may very readily be grouped under three heads, namely, (1) Symptoms in which cardiac failure or syncope is the prominent feature. (Pallor, pulse gradually becoming imperceptible; pupil slowly dilating; respirations unaltered at first, but gradually failing, though seldom abolished completely.) Generally to be looked for in the earlier stages of anaesthesia; often the precursor of sick- ness. As a rule, easily recoverable. (2) Symptoms in which the respiratory failure is the most prominent feature. (Respirations early affected, feeble, and shallow ; pallor, often of the ashy-grey type; pulse fairly good at first, but slowly failing; pupils quickly dilating.) A condition of the middle and late stages, and tending to merge into (3) Simultaneous or almost simultaneous, sudden, and complete cessa- tion of both circulation and respiration, with facies hippocratica, suddenly and widely dilated pupils. May occur early (syncope) or late (toxic overdose). A very serious condition; when fully developed in the earlier stages of anassthesia, it is doubtful if recovery is possible.