34 ACUTE SUPPURATION. frequently, as often as three or four times a day, and the wound and the skin around should be washed with a 1-2000 perchloride solution when the dressing is changed. When the acuteness of the symptoms has passed off, dry dressings, that is to say, boracic lint applied wet and allowed to dry, or else weak boracic ointment, are the best treatment. When healing has commenced the ointment is undoubtedly better, because the dry boracic lint is very apt to stick to the sore and, when the dressing is changed, to tear off the newly-formed epidermis. Where ointments are used they must be spread on thin muslin and changed once or twice a day. Certain other points must be attended to in the local treatment of diffuse cellulitis. It is of primary importance that the part should be placed absolutely at rest, if necessary on a splint, and the position of the limb should be so arranged that, should stiffness take place, as it is very apt to do, the limb will be in the position most convenient for the patient. For example, in the case of the hand the fingers should not be stretched out, because if they become stiff in that position they are useless; they should be about half-bent over a pad, and the thumb especially should be kept apart from the fingers, and allowed to drop. If the thumb be kept at the same level as the fingers, and stiffness result, the power of opposition is more or less lost; whereas, if it be allowed to drop below the level of' the fingers, then, even with comparatively limited movement, fairly small objects can be picked up between the fingers and thumb. To lay the whole hand flat on a splint, with the thumb at the side of the fingers, is a mistake so commonly made that too much attention cannot be called to it. The elbow or the foot should be put up at a right angle, the knee very slightly flexed, etc. Passive Motion.—When the acuteness of the inflammation has passed off, steps must be taken to prevent any subsequent stiffness of the part, for in diffuse cellulitis, spreading as it does in the planes of the cellular tissue, and accompanied, as it very often is, by sloughing, the parts are very apt to become adherent to one another. Thus, in the forearm, what with the inflammation causing adhesion of the muscles to one another, and what with gangrene of portions of the muscle or even of the tendons, the hand is likely to be permanently useless. Hence, directly acute symptoms have passed off, the splint must be given up, and, to a certain extent, rapidity of healing must be sacrificed to the attempt to promote move- ment. The patient should be encouraged to move the fingers, the wrist, and the elbow joint, two or three times daily, and in addition to this, passive movement of these parts ought also to be carried out at least once or twice a day. Massage.—As soon as possible after the wound has healed, massage and passive and active movements should be steadily persevered in, with the view of getting rid of the effused material, and of freeing the adhesions between the muscles. This massage is carried out on the principles already alluded to (see p. 22), and it should be accompanied by passive motion,