266 TUMOURS. itself; those that are divided in the operation are merely the isolated afferent and efferent trunks which are easily secured as they are cut. It is of course important not to cut into the growth, as otherwise the haemorrhage may be profuse and controlled only with the utmost difificulty. Where, however, the naevus is partially superficial and partly deep, in- volving structures which cannot be readily removed, such as the lip, or even more important deeper structures, then excision is not advisable, and in these cases other methods must be employed; of these we shall describe two, namely (i) electrolysis, and (2) injection. {l>) Electrolysis.—Of these methods the former is undoubtedly the better. In using electrolysis for nsevi, different effects are produced by the positive and negative poles; at the positive pole a clot forms which is firm, hard, and readily organised, whilst at the negative it is soft and frothy, and of little value in the formation of new tissue. Hence it is the positive pole which is chiefly relied on to produce the local effect. Several needles connected with this pole should be introduced into the swelling at various points, especially in the neighbourhood of the veins which leave it. The needles should be insulated by means of shellac or guttapercha, or some similar material, right up to within a quarter of an inch of the point, and should be pushed into the naevus until the insulated portion lies in the hole in the skin. If the needle be not properly insulated where it passes through the skin it will produce a slough which will not only leave a scar but may also be a point of entrance for septic material into the clot. Care must be taken that the points of the needles do not approach too near the surface of the tumour, whether it be skin or mucous membrane, for, even if they do not actually perforate it,*they may lead to sloughing and subsequent sepsis; this is particularly likely to happen if the points of several needles are close together. If more than one needle be in- troduced into the naevus, care should be taken to keep them parallel to each other, so as to ensure equable diffusion of the current and avoidance of sloughing (see Fig. 63). A useful and ingenious handle has been suggested by Dr. Lewis Jones for this purpose (see Fig. 64). By its means the needles are kept parallel while, if it be desired to insert both positive and negative electrodes in the tumour, this can also be done. Previous to their introduction the needles should be rendered aseptic by boiling; it is well not to immerse them in strong carbolic lotion, as that destroys the insulating material, and, if steel needles are used, an immersion in a 1-500 perchloride solution would damage the metal. As a rule platinum needles are to be preferred; the only drawback is that it is impossible to get a good sharp point to them. After the needles attached to the positive pole have been inserted in the manner just described, a large flat pad attached to the negative pole and moistened with salt solution is placed on the skin either over the spine or somewhere in the neighbourhood of the naevus. The pad must be moved from one point to another as the electrolysis proceeds, so that it shall not act too long at one spotj if it does, a slough may result.