226 AFFECTIONS OF CICATRICES. CONTRACTING CICATRIX. This is a very serious condition under certain circumstances. Even cicatrices resulting from healing by first intention sometimes contract so much as to cause a good deal of interference with movement. This is very well seen where thyroid tumours have been excised by vertical in- cisions in the middle line of the neck ; if the cicatrix contracts to any extent, a band is formed between the sternum and the trachea which interferes with the due extension of the head upon the trunk and often causes much inconvenience. Treatment.—In cases such as the above, the cicatrix should be divided transversely about its centre, the skin and cicatricial tissue undermined, and the divided ends of the scar pulled well asunder. It is then generally possible to bring together the lateral angles of the lozenge-shaped incision thus pro- duced and so to convert the transverse into a longitudinal wound, which is then stitched up and the scar thus elongated. In cases where, after burns, the surgeon has to do with a very large cicatrix, all tense bands should be divided in this manner, and the raw surface left after separation of the ends of the cicatrix should be grafted upon at once; owing to the extent of the affected area it will not be possible to suture it in the manner just described. There are many other methods of dealing with the deformities caused by cicatrices in special situations which will be discussed under their proper headings. PAINFUL CICATRIX. Cicatrices are sometimes met with which are intensely tender, so that the slightest touch causes exquisite pain, which is usually neuralgic in character, and radiates from the scar. These painful scars most commonly occur when the edges of a wound have not been brought accurately together, but they may be met with even where healing by first intention has occurred, and they indicate the implication of nerves in the contracting fibrous tissue of the scar. Treatment.—The only satisfactory treatment in these cases is to dissect out the scar, cutting well into the healthy tissues at the sides, so as to remove not only the entangled nerve ends which may have already become bulbous, but also the adjacent and probably inflamed portions. When there is a broad scar and the edges of the wound cannot be brought together after excision, skin-grafting (see p. 50) or some suitable plastic operation is indicated. ADHERENT CICATRIX. A scar may be adherent to the tissues beneath, and may thus become a source of great trouble to the patient; besides which, these scars are often