195 BURNS AND SCALDS. where all the tissues of the limb are charred, and where there is complete destruction of the part subjected to the heat. Among the later effects of burns is the occurrence of a certain amount of inflammation around the burnt area, due directly to the action of the heat; and besides this, if the parts have not been rendered aseptic, there may be septic infection with severe local and general results. Later on there is the separation of the slough, granulation, and healing. The constitutional phenomena are divided into three stages, which need only be alluded to. The first stage lasts for 48 hours, and is marked by congestion of the parts in the neighbourhood of the burn, and great pain ; besides this there may be congestions of the internal organs. Thus, for example, when the burn is situated over the thorax, the pleura or the lungs may become congested; when it is over the skull, the meninges may be similarly affected, and so on. During this stage also there are other serious dangers; for instance, shock, delirium, convulsions, asphyxia from carbonic acid or carbonic oxide or death with symptoms of poisoning attributed to absorption of the partly broken-up products of the burnt tissues. The second stage of burns lasts from the second to the sixth or eighth day, and is termed the inflammatory period : this is marked by inflammation of the part with sloughing of the dead tissues, and a tendency also to inflammation of the internal organs; for example, a burn over the head may be accom- panied by inflammation of the brain, a burn over the thorax by inflammation of the pleura or the lungs, and so forth. It is during this stage that the peculiar phenomenon frequently noticed in burns, namely, inflammation and, in some cases, ulceration of the duodenum a little below the point of entrance of the bile duct, is observed. This occurs just at the point where the contents of the bile duct would impinge on the intestinal mucous membrane, and is possibly due, as was pointed out by Dr. William Hunter, to the excretion, with the bile, of irritating products' resulting from an imperfect carbonisation of the tissues. The third stage begins when the slough separates, and is mainly occupied by the healing process: towards the end of the second, and in the early part of the third stage, the patient is liable to the various general septic diseases, which will be alluded to presently. He is also liable to local septic troubles due to the position of the burn; for example, when it is situated over a cavity such as a joint or the pleura, and the latter is opened as the slough separates, violent septic inflammation of the part (arthritis, pleurisy, etc.) may follow. The Causes of Death after Burns depend mainly on the extent, but partly also on the depth of the burn and the region of the body affected. An extensive superficial burn is much more dangerous than a limited but deep one, whilst a burn over the head or the thorax is far more serious than a more extensive one on an extremity. The causes of death after burns are (i) shock, (2) collapse, (3) asphyxia from carbonic acid or carbonic oxide, (4) poisoning from absorption of partially broken-down organic products at the seat of the injury, (5) congestion of various internal