SYPHILIS. 230 tertiary syphilis. It is interesting to note that, although the division between secondary and tertiary syphilis, more particularly in respect to the time limit, is somewhat arbitrary, a further justification for this division is found in the fact that the two drugs which exercise a specific influence on the disease, namely, mercurial preparations and the iodides (especially those of potassium and sodium), act differently in these two stages. During the early secondary stage the iodides have .little or no effect in causing the disappearance of the lesions, while mercury acts much more effectually. During the tertiary stage, on the other hand, the iodides are much more rapid in their action than is mercury. Primary Syphilis.—(«) Local Treatment.—Here attention must be chiefly directed to the local treatment of the sore. In the first place, care must be taken to avoid the use of irritating applications ; they only lead to enlargement of the sore and absorption of a still larger dose of the poison. No attempt should be made to destroy the chancre by caustics: they never cause the disease to abort, and only serve to produce extension of the ulceration. Excision of chancres is also not to be recommended. In the great majority of cases, by the time the diagnosis can be made with certainty, the infection has spread far beyond the seat of inoculation, and there is no chance of cutting short the disease by removing the sore. During the early period, tvhile the diagnosis is still uncertain, absolute cleanliness, frequent washing with water or boracic lotion and the application of a weak boracic ointment {\ strength) or boracic lint, should be relied upon. When the diagnosis is certain, it is well to employ mercurials locally and the favourite application is weak lotio nigra (3 grains of calomel to the ounce of lime water) with which the sore is washed three or four times daily, after which a piece of lint soaked in the lotion is applied over its surface. The penis, if that be the part aff'ected, should be kept in a bag made by sewing boracic or salicylic wool between two layers of gauze: this prevents friction and avoids soiling of the linen. Where the sore is large and exte?tding it is well after drying the sore to dust it over with calomel and starch (calomel one part, starch powder three parts), two or three times a day; where sloughing is taking place or where the discharge is offensive, one part of iodoform may be added to this. Lint dipped in lotio nigra is then applied as before to the surface of the ulcer. When the chancre begins to heal, it is well to abandon the local use of mercurials and to return to the boracic lotion and weak boracic ointment. In the case of the acutely spreading, so-called pkagedenic chancre it is well to bring the patient rapidly under the influence of mercury, especially if the chancre be situated where its spread may do serious harm; this shoilld be in addition to the local use of the calomel, starch and iodoform powder. These so-called phagedenic chancres, although not true phagedena, are nevertheless often due to a mixed infection, and the rule as to the use of caustics may be relaxed here. When sloughing actively progresses in