112 ANy^:STHETICS. Treatment.—Reference has already been made (see p. 95) to the treat- ment to be adopted when, in ether anaesthesia, the muco-salivary secretion becomes excessive, and to the treatment of spasm of the glottis. The treatment of other forms of gross asphyxia is so perfectly obvious, that it may be dismissed in a very few words. If, with a patient sitting up, as for nitrous oxide anaesthesia, blood or a foreign body, such as a tooth, slips back into the larynx, the body of the patient should be bent sharply forward so as to bring the head over the knees; coughing should be encouraged by smartly patting the back, and by passing the finger into the throat to irritate the vocal cords. This latter manoeuvre may reveal the presence of the foreign body itself, and an attempt may be made to remove it by means of the laryngeal forceps (Fig. 34); if this attempt do not succeed, the advisability of performing tracheotomy, or even better, laryngotomy, must be considered. Of course, in many cases, this operation would be performed by the operating surgeon, but the administrator should always be provided with suitable instruments, for occasion may arise, e.g. in dental work, in which they may be urgently called for and when the anaesthetist may himself have to operate. In any event, the responsibility rests with the anaesthetist. In respect to the other symptoms mentioned on p. iii, it must be borne in mind that, although in some instances their development is almost unavoidable, yet in many if not in the majority of cases in which they are very pronounced, they can be traced to some error of omission or commission on the part of the anaesthetist. It may not, therefore, be out of place to recapitulate what may be termed the prophylactic treatment in respect to these symptoms, viz., {a) Take care to remove beforehand anything that may obstruct the breathing, or that may fall into the throat when the parts are relaxed (see p. 84). {b) Excepting in the case of nitrous oxide, always induce anjesthesia gradually; this does not of necessity mean slowly, but rather the graduation Fig. 34.—Laryngeal Forceps.