153 TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. intention. In placing the edges of the wound in apposition, care should be taken to see that one edge is not on a higher level than the other. Should this occur to a very slight extent it will not matter, except in so far that the subsequent cicatrix is not a fine delicate line, but shows a definite ridge. If, however, there be any marked difference in level be- tween the edges, and more especially if the raw surface of the one side chance to lie in contact with the cutaneous surface of the other, healing of the overlapping raw surface will not take place although the deeper parts will unite satisfactorily enough. It is a curious fact that epithelium will not spread over a raw surface which is lying in contact with epithelium- covered skin, and where an overlapping of the kind alluded to is present, it is necessary, in order to obtain proper healing, to pare away the inverted or overlapped edge of the skin, and thus to have two raw surfaces opposed to each other. Approximation of Deeper Structures.—When a wound has to be closed it is important to remember that its deeper parts must be approxi- mated as well as its cutaneous edges. For this purpose some surgeons employ deep stitches and then put in superficial ones to bring together the skin and the more superficial structures; this is however hardly necessary in the large majority of cases. By properly applied pressure outside the wound (see p. 170), it is, as a rule, quite possible to bring the deeper parts sufficiently together, and stitches need only be employed for the approximation of the edges of the skin. Sutures.—The choice of the particular material that is to be used for stitches is determined by the asepticity of the wound and the amount of tension upon its edges. As we are now dealing only with aseptic wounds, we have merely to consider what materials are suitable for stitches in (a) those where there is no tension on the edges; (l>) those where the tension is very great, and (c) those where it is only moderate in amount. It is also well to bear in mind, more particularly in connection with wounds on exposed parts, such as the face, neck, etc., that where there has been healing by first intention more unsightliness is produced by the stitch marks than by the cicatrix itself; therefore, under these circumstances, the avoidance of stitch marks is a matter of considerable importance. Whatever be the material used for stitches, it should be kept in a 1-20 carbolic lotion for at least several hours before the operation, and then washed in 1-2000 sublimate solution immediately before it is used. (a) Where there is no tension.—Where there is no tension on the edges of the wound, and where as delicate a scar as possible is desired, as in operations upon the face and neck, the finest material only should be used, and the stitches should not be put closer together than is absolutely necessary to keep the edges in contact; and further, they should be inserted as close as possible to the line of incision. Under these circumstances fine horse-hair is probably the best material to employ. The size of the stitch marks may be still further reduced if a fine Hagedorn's needle be