io8 ANAESTHETICS. prefer that, whenever possible, the patient should be absolutely recumbent, the head being allowed to hang over the end of the table, with the neck extended, so as to bring the post-nasal space into a dependent position. Personally, I am doubtful whether much is really gained by this, and I am quite sure that the bleeding is more profuse, and that the stretching of the muscles and tissues of the neck causes much after-discomfort. Others, again, like to have the head and shoulders well raised, and perhaps the chin strongly flexed towards the sternum. There are still others who place the patient sitting almost bolt upright. As an ansesthetist I am convinced that the latter is a most risky position, as it tends to encourage syncope ; the other positions are not objectionable from this point of view. In such delicate operations as those for cleft palate, the dorsal position, with the head more or less extended, is imperative, so that the best view possible of the parts may be obtained. In these cases, too, some surgeons of great experience consider that healing is retarded by the direct impact A Fig. 31.—Hahn's Tracheal Tami-on and Chloroform Attachment. £, Tracheal tube, covered with sponge which swells up in the trachea. £, Metal cone covered with domette on which the chloroform is dropped. £>, F, C, A, Tube conveying vapour to tracheal tube on which it is fixed at a. It is of importance that the junctions D, C, and A be sufficieiftly large (for adults 6-8 mm.); in the tubes sold they are often much too small. of the chloroform vapour from the tube upon the freshly cut edges of the wound, and they prefer to maintain the ansesthesia by means of chloroform dropped upon a towel or lint; but direct impact of the vapour ought to be easily avoided, and when this is done it is difficult to understand why, if the patient be kept well under, the use of the towel or lint should be less injurious. In using the Junker's apparatus where the breathing is likely to be obstructed, it is important to bear in mind, that the heavy vapour of chloroform is apt to accumulate at the back of the throat, directly the breathing becomes in the slightest degree obstructed, so that the energy with which the bellows should be worked must be directly proportionate to the freedom of respiration. In extensive operations upon the base of the tongue, etc., when pre- liminary tracheotomy is advisable, a Hahn's or Trendelenburg's tampon is