232 SYPHILIS. (2) As far as possible, alcohol should be given up, but where patients are accustomed to take it regularly, a small amount, preferably light claret, may be allowed. (3) Regular exercise should be taken, but the more violent forms, such as football, hunting, and the like, must be avoided, as otherwise greater quantities of mercury will be required to bring the patient properly under its influence. It has long been recognised that all persons taking mercury are particularly prone to catarrhs which are apt to be of a severe type. (4) The care of the teeth is of the highest importance. If tartar be allowed to accumulate on them, salivation may occur before the patient is fully under the influence of the drug, and there may be considerable difficulty in continuing the mercury, on account of the premature tenderness of the gums. The patient should be enjoined to brush the teeth frequently during the day, and if there be any tenderness, an astringent mouth-wash, such as a combination of alum and tincture of myrrh, may be usefully employed. (5) Smoking should be prohibited, both on account of the depressing eff'ect of tobacco and especially because the irritation of the smoke pre- disposes to and keeps up throat, mouth, and tongue affections. Modes of Administration of Mercury.—Mercury may be administered by the mouth, by the skin, and by intra-muscular injection. Among the various preparations of the drug administered by the mouth, the metallic form acts best during the early stages, and is usually given either in the form of blue pill or as a pill of hydrargyrum cum creta. In this stage also it is well to combine it with iron, and the following is a good formula : R. Pil. hydrargyri, - - - - - gr- 2. Ferri sulphatis, - - - - - gr- i- Extract, opii, - - - - - gr- i- M. ft. pil. One pill to be taken thrice daily. " Hutchinson's formula " consists of hydrarg. c. cret. and Dover's powder in equal quantities made up into 4-grain pills, one of which is taken four times a day. The amount of Dover's powder should be varied according to the action of the mercury upon the bowels. The quantity of mercury in the pill may be gradually increased, so long as no intestinal irritation is produced, and the full doses are pushed until the mercury begins to manifest its physiological effects, as shown by salivation or soreness of the gums. When this stage is reached, the dose should be reduced, or if the tenderness of the gums be extreme, the drug may be discontinued entirely for two or three days until the tenderness has passed off, when it may be resumed in smaller doses. It should not be discontinued altogether when the physio- logical effects manifest themselves; as a rule the secondary phenomena do not disappear until the physiological action of the mercury is apparent. At a later stage of secondary syphilis, particularly in weakly subjects, other forms of mercury often act better, and give rise to less intestinal irritation than the one just described. The green iodide of mercury, for