INFLAMMATION. half to one drachm of the liquor calcis saccharatus to each tumblerful of milk. At the same time, the patient should be encouraged to take fluid drinks containing bicarbonate of potash or spirit of nitrous ether. A very good one is that used in most hospitals, and called "imperial drink"; it consists of one to one-and-a-half drachms of cream of tartar added to a pint of boiling water, and then allowed to cool, a little sugar being added to sweeten it. The cream of tartar may also be conveniently given in gruel, made by adding a tablespoonful of oatmeal and about a drachm of cream of tartar to half a pint of water, and boiling it, adding after- wards a tablespoonful of brandy and a little sugar. By these methods the kidneys are made to act without any undue irritation. Above all things, one must avoid the more irritating diuretics, on account of the tendency that there is in many of these acute inflammatory affections to albuminuria and nephritis. Drugs.—The congestion may also be diminished by slowing the action of the heart, and this can, to a certain extent, be brought about by various drugs, notably by aconite. This drug should only be given in quite the early stage of the inflammation, and then it often gives marked relief. The dose should be one minim of the tincture every half hour for three doses, and then every hour for three or four more. This has the efifect of slowing the pulse, reducing the temperature, and producing dia- phoresis. The pulse must be carefully watched whilst the drug is being administered. If it becomes unduly slow, and especially if it shows signs of becoming weak or irregular, the aconite should be stopped at once, and if the weakness and irregularity are very marked, a hundredth of a grain of digitaline should be injected subcutaneously, and repeated in an hour or two if necessary. In the case, for example, of an initial pulse rate of no, a reduction to a rate of 80 is as much as is desirable. At night time, a Dover's powder may be given, partly with a view of obtaining sleep and freedom from pain, but mainly to promote the action of the skin. The latter object may also be furthered by giving liquor ammonige acetatis in two to four drachm doses every three or four hours. The food should consist entirely of fluid, essentially of milk, with occasionally a certain amount of beef-tea; and, as the patient is apt to neglect to take a proper amount of nourishment, it is well to arrange for the administration of food about every two hours—a tumblerful of milk alternating with a cup of beef-tea or some Valentine's meat extract. During the period of recovery from the inflammatory condition, nourishing diet, with stimulants and tonics, more especially iron, should of course be given. PROGNOSIS.—The prognosis of acute inflammation depends on its nature and seat. Should an acute inflammation, of the degree of which we have been speaking, last for more than three or four days, suppuration will almost certainly take place. If, on the other hand, the inflammation is subsiding, wrinkling of the skin is noticed, and a favourable prognosis as