ANESTHETICS. 104 Properties.—Its spec. grav. when freshly prepared, is as nearly as possible the mean of its three constituents, i.e., vo; the spec. grav. of its vapour has not been experimentally determined. The particular purpose served by the alcohol is not very clear; possibly the advantage is mainly mechanical, leading to a more intimate admixture of the several constituents, but it is also claimed that the evaporation of the ether is somewhat re- tarded, and there is no doubt that, by the use of alcohol, the vapour inhaled has a pleasanter and less pungent smell than when ether and chloroform are alone employed. It is said to be somewhat unstable, and it is always recommended that it should be freshly prepared, as required. Advantages.—The question is often asked, why the mixture should be preferred to pure chloroform. The reply to this query is founded partly upon theoretical, partly upon practical considerations. Theoretically, I am inclined to believe that the stimulating effects of the ether vapour, however slight, cannot but be of service, and that, by using a moderately diluted vapour, there is much less risk of overstepping the narrow margin of safety which is so characteristic of chloroform anaesthesia. Practically, I am sure that, with the mixture, one obtains earlier notice of impending danger than with chloroform alone. Neither the mixture nor any of the anaesthetics at present known are absolutely safe, but the danger with the A.C.E. is chiefly that of over-narcosis pure and simple, and of this more ample warning is given than with chloroform ; to a great extent, though perhaps not entirely, the element of sudden over-dilatation of the heart is eliminated. Cases Suitable.-—Broadly speaking, it may be said that when, for any reason, neither nitrous oxide nor ether are considered advisable, the next string to the bow of the anaesthetist is the mixture. The list of objections to the use of ether, therefore, given on p. 92, constitutes a list from which cases suitable for the use of A.C.E. can be selected. But even the small amount of ether contained in the mixture may be considered harmful in infants and very young children; in those actually suffering from extensive lung disease, or when the actual cautery is to be employed in close proximity to the inhaler. As an inhaler is usually employed, it is not easy to maintain the narcosis with A.C.E. in operations about the mouth and nose, though even in these, the anaesthesia may easily be induced by this means. The preparation of the patient should be carried out on the lines suggested on p. 82, and no position is permissible but the recumbent, or one in which the feet and legs are elevated to at least the level of the body. Apparatus and Administration.—No form of closed or bag-inhaler of the Clover or Ormsby type must be used for A.C.E. or other chloroform mixture. In very small children, and in neurotic adults it may be given by the open method, i.e.., by dropping on the corner of a towel or handkerchief held just above the mouth. Generally speaking, however, an inhaler of the shape represented in Fig. 28 is desirable. It is important that a very free supply of air should be available, so the ventilation holes must be large and