38 ULCERATION. the sore, as in a callous ulcer. Not only does the difficulty in contraction lead per se to ulceration, but the new tissue, in contracting, compresses the blood-vessels going to the part, and so interferes with the proper blood supply. Again, irritation of a sore may lead to ulceration instead of healing, either mechanically, as by pressure, by friction of the dressings, etc., or. chemically, as by irritation due either to the lotion used in the treatment, (for example, carbolic acid), or to decomposing secretions. Where the discharge from a sore decomposes, irritating materials are formed which may lead to extensive ulceration, especially if they do not readily escape. This is most often the case where the discharge dries up and forms crusts: under these crusts this decomposing, irritating secretion accumulates, and ulceration instead of healing occurs. Hence it is of great importance in treating an ulcer, or a septic granulating wound, not to permit the formation of crusts or scabs. Ulceration may also be set up by accidental contamination of the wound. A wound which is healing will begin to ulcerate if virulent pyogenic organisms attack it; they lead to the formation of an inflammatory ulcer. Among other specific infections of sores may be mentioned diphtheria and phagedena, the latter of which will be dealt with more fully in con- nection with gangrene. Ulcers also occur in parts where the nervous supply is ijuperfect; for example, after paralysis or neuritis. To some extent this may be due to the fact that the patient's cutaneous sensibiHty is diminished, and thus he tolerates greater and more continued pressure on one particular spot than the tissue can bear: the loss of the regulating trophic influence of the nervous system is also, without doubt, of great importance. Lastly, ulcers may occur in connection with certain constitutional conditions, such as diabetes, scurvy, etc. Diabetes leads to ulceration, partly from the diminished blood supply due to the endarteritis which so often accompanies it, and partly from the increased susceptibility of the tissues to septic infection. Scurvy leads to extravasation of blood into the tissues, interfering with their vitality, and often ending in sloughing of the skin. Summary of causes. In regard to treatment, the various causes which lead to ulceration may be most conveniently divided into six great groups, (i) The nature of the tissue. Where the tissue is loose and not ver}'' vascular, its vitality is not great, and the blood supply is more readily interfered with by the exudation. (2) Anomalies in the circulation, either local or general; such as local anaemia or venous hypersemia, venous obstruction and pressure of exudation upon the vessels, etc. Under this heading may also be included ulcers in old people, where the tissues are less vascular and the vessels diseased. (3) Local disturbances of innerva- tion, due to various diseases of the central or peripheral nervous system. (4) Local irritation, long continued or frequently repeated, mechanical or