PY/EMIA. 215 a large drainage tube placed in the wound so as to make sure that the discharge escapes freely, and a stitch or two inserted when the wound is large. If the patient survive, and external abscesses develop, they must be opened early, and drained freely. When suppuration occurs in joints the latter must be opened freely and drained efficiently; this point will be dealt with fully in discussing the affections of joints. Further details as to local treatment in special cases will be given in connection with such affections as pysemia after ear disease, acute osteomyelitis, etc. {b) General.—Amongst drugs, the greatest reliance is placed on quinine. In most cases it is well to begin with a large dose,—from 15 to 20 grains of sulphate of quinine,—and then after three or four hours, to follow it up with five-grain doses every four hours, unless the patient shows signs of quinism, in which case it must of course be discontinued. Salicylate of soda may also be used,—20 grains every three hours,—watching also for signs of salicylate poisoning. The use of the sulpho-carbolates has been suggested with the idea that carbolic acid would be liberated in the blood, and would there help to destroy the organisms; as a matter of fact, however, the amount of carbolic acid that could be thus liberated would have absolutely no effect; and in practice the sulpho-carbolates have been found to be useless. Antipyretic measures must of course be employed when the temperature is unusually high, because after a rigor the patient may actually die of the hyperpyrexia. Of the antipyretic drugs, p/iena- cetin is the safest. It may be given in 5 or lo-grain doses, repeated every hour if necessary, the pulse being carefully watched meanwhile for any sign of depression. Antipyrin is no doubt a still more effectual anti- pyretic, but it is a powerful depressant, and, where the patient is weakly, may produce an alarming degree of collapse. Sponging the body with water at about 90° F. is a very rapid and effectual way of reducing the temperature; it is very agreeable, and not at all depressing. The patient should be stripped and made to lie between blankets, and the sponging should be done under the blanket without exposing the surface of the body to the cold air; it should be continued for about ten or fifteen minutes, and the skin then carefully dried with hot soft towels. Care must be taken to maintain the temperature of the water used for sponging. Sponging should be repeated whenever the temperature rises above 102° F. Stimulants will also be necessary, but they should not, in the early stage at any rate, be pushed to extremes, not more than about six ounces of brandy being given in the twenty-four hours. At a later period a larger quantity may be required, and the more diffusible stimulants, especially champagne, are the most useful. Given with or immediately after food, they produce a temporary stimulation and aid the process of digestion. The diet should of course be essentially liquid; the patient is unable to digest solids, and, if given, they only accumulate in the intestines and upset the digestive organs. Milk, which may be combined with a few drops of saccharated lime water to prevent curdling, and meat juices, especially