ACUTE SUPPURATION. 26 Treatment—Local.—When pus has formed it should be evacuated as soon as possible. If allowed to remain unopened the abscess will go on spreading, and thus cause a great deal of unnecessary destruction of tissue, besides in some cases imperilling the patient's life. Hence, when symptoms of acute inflammation have lasted for several days, and more especially if there be cedema of the skin over the part, and still more if rigors have occurred, no time should be lost in making an incision to find the pus. In opening an acute abscess all the usual antiseptic precautions should be taken, the hair being shaved, the skin purified, and so forth, in the manner described for the treatment of wounds (see Chap. VIII.). At first sight this may seem an unnecessary precaution, because these abscesses, being due to pyogenic cocci, already contain the causes of suppuration. Practically, however, it is found that it is of the greatest importance to treat the abscess strictly antiseptically from the first. As a matter of fact, when an abscess is opened antiseptically it is comparatively easy to keep it aseptic, and no further suppuration occurs. On removing the first dressings there will no doubt be a small quantity of pus, but this is only the residual pus which was present in the abscess at the time of the open- ing, and if the cavity be squeezed, all that is expelled is a small quantity of clear serum; this rapidly diminishes, and in a few days the abscess cavity closes. On the other hand, where the abscess is not treated anti- septically from the first, suppuration goes on. If, for example, a poultice be applied, it will be found that, whenever the poultice is removed, pus can be squeezed out, or will even flow out spontaneously; this is evidently due to fresh infection of the cavity, for, when asepsis is maintained, the organisms which originally caused the abscess, for reasons into which we need not enter here, die out. Opening an Abscess.—The incision into an acute abscess should always, if possible, be made at the most dependent spot. Unless the abscess is situated in parts such as the face or the neck, where the size of the scar may be a matter of importance, the incision through the skin should be sufficiently free to allow the surgeon to introduce his finger, with the view of exploring all the recesses of the abscess cavity and breaking down all the septa to which reference has just been made: without the aid of touch this cannot, as a rule, be satisfactorily done. In some cases where the abscess is superficial, and the size of the scar a matter of great importance, it is allowable to make a small incision just large enough to admit a pair of dressing forceps and subsequently to put in a small drainage tube. Before doing this, the forceps introduced into the interior of the abscess cavity should be pushed in all directions and the blades frequently expanded, so that any septa present may be broken down and the cavity thoroughly opened. In certain situations, as, for instance, in the anterior triangle of the neck, where the use of the knife in the deeper tissues would endanger important structures, some surgeons prefer to use the plan known