193 POISONED WOUNDS. extensive, it can best be got rid of in this way; should the tendons be exposed in the dissection, loss of movement need not be feared so long as the whole raw surface is well covered with skin-grafts. Where the patient refuses excision, or where for any reason the surgeon does not wish to employ it, an aneesthetic should be administered and the warty material thoroughly scraped away; after the bleeding has been completely arrested, the surface should be vigorously rubbed over with nitric acid (not merely daubed on with a sponge or piece of wool dipped in it), which should be allowed to act for from five to ten minutes. At the end of that time a strong solution of carbonate of soda (an ounce or more of carbonate of soda in a tumbler of water) is poured over the sore to neutralise the nitric acid; the effect of the soda solution is to cause vigorous effervescence from the formation of carbonic acid, but, as soon as the nitric acid is completely neutralised, this ceases. The surgeon should, however, always impress upon the patient that by far the best method of treating this disease is by excision and subsequent skin- grafting. (b) Local Septic Infection.—The other troubles which arise from post- mortem wounds are septic infections, either local or general. The results of local septic infection vary in severity from the formation of a small pustule or abscess, to an extensive diffuse cellulitis spreading from the fingers up the hand and arm ; the treatment of these conditions is that already described for acute abscess or diffuse cellulitis (see Chap. II.). We need not refer to it again here. (c) General Septic Infection.—The most serious result of a post- jnortem wound, however, is acute septicaemia, and this is perhaps most likely to occur in wounds inflicted accidentally in making post-mortetfi examinations on patients who have died of suppurative peritonitis; the organisms in the pus are here particularly virulent. The disease progresses with great rapidity, and the patient soon passes into the typhoid state, and may die in from 36 to 48 hours. Treatment.—^In this acute form of septic poisoning there is very little hope of a successful result, as the disease is far too rapid for any satisfactory intervention. The infection is most often due to streptococci, and, there- fore, at the present time we should be inclined, as a first step in the treatment, to inject a quantity of the antistreptococcic serum. In its present strength about 20 c.c. should be injected when the patient is first seen, and this should be followed up by a further 20 c.c. in the course of 10 or 12 hours. Apart from this, the treatment chiefly consists in the employment of stimulants, such as brandy in ounce doses given at intervals of from two to four hours according to the gravity of the case, the administration of as much nutritious food (beef essences, egg, and milk, etc.) as possible, and the use of large doses of quinine. This drug should be given in doses of five grains at a time, every three hours, or Warburg's tincture in drachm doses at similar intervals may be substituted N