INCISED WOUNDS INFLICTED ACCIDENTALLY. parts, especially anywhere where dirt is present, should be thoroughly swabbed out with the acid. When the wound in the deeper parts is larger than the opening in the skin, the latter must be freely incised, so that the whole extent of the wound is fully exposed. In some cases, no doubt, where the soiling of the tissues is very slight, the strong mixture will suffice. A good example of a wound of this kind may be seen in a scalp wound where hairs and scurf are present in the wound. We shall therefore take it as a type, and describe the treatment in detail. Treatment of a Scalp Wound.—In the first place, the hair should be shaved for at least two inches around the wound in all directions. When all the hair and dirt have been removed, the wound and the scalp around are thoroughly cleansed by turpentine, soap and strong mixture (see p. i6i). If the wound has been caused by a dirty blunt instrument, it is well after arresting the bleeding to swab the cut surface with undiluted carbolic acid. In all these cases drainage should be employed, lest asepsis has not been obtained in spite of the above vigorous measures. A drainage tube of a size varying according to the extent of the wound, and always of fairly large calibre, should be inserted at one angle, and should extend into any recess or pocket that may be found beneath the scalp. After the wound has been disinfected and drained, the hair in the vicinity should be thoroughly impregnated with a paste made by mixing the double cyanide of mercury and zinc with 1-20 carbolic lotion; this is rubbed thoroughly into the hair, which is thus readily converted into an antiseptic dressing. If the wound be an incised one, it may now be sewn up by several silkworm gut stitches; if it be a lacerated one, it is not necessary to devote any great care to the approximation of the edges of the wound, because the probability is that primary union will only be partial at best; just enough stitches should be employed to keep the flap in place. The usual anti- septic dressings are then applied in the ordinary manner (see p. 169). If no pain or other signs of sepsis manifest themselves, the wound should be dressed in about four days and then, if there be no suppuration, the drainage tube may be left out and the wound allowed to close. If, however, the attempt to secure asepsis has failed (as will be evidenced by local inflammation and general fever), the dressings must be changed more frequently, but in no case is it advisable to wash out the wound with an antiseptic solution, as is so often recommended. WOUNDS ALREADY SEPTIC. Another group of incised wounds, not made by the surgeon, that demand consideration are those in which several days at least have elapsed between their infliction and the time they come under the surgeon's notice. Wounds of this kind may be divided into open granulating wounds, and those in which there is only a small opening at the surface and a deep track running inwards; this latter condition is known as sinus or fistula.