io6 ANy*:STHETICS. without removing from the face. Anaesthesia may be maintained with ether in these masks, if necessary, but it is difificult and often impossible to use them for the induction of ether anaesthesia. Bearing in mind that the most potent constituent of the A.C.E., and most other mixtures, is the chloroform, it is only natural that the phenomena observed, and the precautions to be adopted in their administration, are but modifications of those already described under the head of the latter drug. Owing to the stimulating effect of the ether, which should be almost continuous if small, frequently repeated doses, mixed with plenty of air be given, the depressing effects of the chloroform are less apparent. On the other hand, laryngeal spasm is of slightly more frequent occurrence in children, and as the flow of mucus is increased, the breathing is apt to be a little more noisy. The ether-rash (see p. 95) is occasionally observed, and the pupils are, on the whole, inclined to be rather more widely dilated than with chloroform in the third stage of anaesthesia. The dangers and after-effects are essentially those of chloroform (see p. 103), but as they are rather more gradual in their onset, they can usually be detected before the condition of the patient becomes serious. There appears to be less fear of early cardiac syncope. As a rule, about an ounce should amply suffice to induce aneesthesia in most patients, and in children rather less will be required. From five to seven minutes should be allowed for the production of the primary narcosis. From a calculation based upon 988 cases in which both the duration of the operation and the amount of mixture used was noted, one ounce of A.C.E. was estimated to last on an average 1776 minutes.^ ETHER PRECEDED BY A.C.E.—When, for any reason, nitrous oxide is objected to as a vehicle for introducing ether by the " combined method" already referred to on page 97, the A.C.E., given on a towel, a handkerchief, or in a mask, may be substituted for the gas with advantage. But very little mixture is necessary for this purpose (3i.-5ii-). the anaesthesia is not carried Kin,(^s College Hospital Reports, vols. Ii., ill., and IV. D Fig. 29.—Metal Mask for A.C.E. OR Ether. Fig. 30.—Sectional View of Metal Mask, shewing A, Shield or drip-catcher; B, Wire sponge guard; C, Sponge ; D, Perforated hinged concave top.