ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. 233 example, is a very useful drug; it may be given in pill form, in doses of a quarter to half a grain combined with a quarter of a grain of extract of opium, three or four times a day. In the late secondary stage, and especially where the patient is very anaemic and feeble, the French preparation known as " Gibert's syrup," is often extremely good. Each ounce of this contains y^th of a grain of biniodide of mercury, 5 grains of iodide of potassium, syrup, and water. The longer the syphilis has lasted the better in fact is the result obtained by combining iodide of potassium with the mercury. An important question is, how long the mercury should be co?itt?iued, for there seems good reason to believe that, in the milder cases of syphilis at all events, an actual cure may be brought about by careful treatment, at any rate tertiary symptoms may never supervene. Everyone is agreed that the mercury should be continued in as large doses as possible without producing salivation, at least until the secondary symptoms, for which it is admin- istered, have subsided, and for two or three weeks afterwards. Also, that when fresh symptoms appear, mercury should be again administered as before. Keyes,' however, has pointed out that it is well to continue the treatment with small doses of mercury (about one third of the dose required to produce the physiological action) after the symptoms have subsided. Should these recur, the full dose is again resorted to. He advises that this treatment be continued, with two or three weeks interval every six months, until the end of the secondary period, in fact for two or three years. This method is certainly a very valuable one, and we would recommend that it be followed, at any rate for a year or eighteen months. When more rapid mercurialisation is required, it is best to employ inunction, and in the later stages of the secondary period iodide of potassium should be administered internally at the same time. The ointment usually selected for inunction is the ordinary unguentum hydrargyri, but the same result can be obtained with a 10 or 20 per cent, oleate of mercury combined with an equal quantity of lanoline or simple cerate; this preparation, more- over, has the advantage of not soiling the linen to such an extent as the blue ointment generally does. Inunction should be carried out as follows. Where unguentum hydrargyri is used, a portion about the size of a hazel nut is rubbed well into the skin every night, if possible before a warm fire, and this operation should occupy from fifteen to twenty minutes. The ointment may be rubbed into any part of the body where the skin is comparatively thin, for choice into the axillae or the groins, and it should not be rubbed into the same part on two successive nights, as otherwise considerable irritation of the skin may be caused, possibly ending in the formation of a pustular eruption. For example, the inunction should be made into one axilla on the first night, into the other the following night, whilst on the third one groin, and on the fourth, the other may be chosen; on the fifth night inunction may be employed over the abdomen, and the patient should wear the same under- * Keyes, Venereal Diseases, i88i.