I lO ANESTHETICS. Difficulties and Dangers. Difficulties and dangers directly connected with the anaesthetic, are due to the effects of the various drugs upon either the respiratory, or the circulatory systems. Many and bitter are the controversies which have arisen as to which system is primarily affected, but much of this discussion has been of an academic rather than of a practical character; at present, the balance of opinion appears to be in favour of ascribing to both functions some share in the production of fatal results. At any rate, it is admitted on all hands that the depression in the respiration, even if it is not absolutely coincident with the circulatory failure, precedes or follows it so closely that, clinically, it is almost impossible to distinguish between the two effects, and, therefore, the line of treatment must be such as will give relief in both directions. Simple ssrncope appears to be an acci4ent to which patients are occasionally liable in the very earliest stages of the inhalation. Some such cases are undoubtedly due to mere fright, and can hardly be ascribed to the toxic effects of the anaesthetic; but, on the other hand, many cases are on record in which no such dread of the operation existed, but where, nevertheless, the patient, often a strong healthy adult, has suddenly suc- cumbed after inhaling the anaesthetic for a few minutes, when apparently unconscious, and passing into the third stage (see p. 94). In origin, respiratory troubles may be spasmodic, asphyxial, or due to the toxic effects of the drug upon the central nervous system. Spasm of the glottis may occur with any anaesthetic, but especially with ether when the vapour is too suddenly applied, or increased in strength too rapidly ; the treatment, namely, withdrawal or diminution in strength of the vapour, is obvious, and no further reference need be made to it here. The irritation of the ether vapour may sometimes cause a good deal of coughing, and if this does not subside in the course of a few minutes, the inhalation of a few drops (10-20) of chloroform will often have a good effect, and the ether inhaler can subsequently be re-applied. Asph3rxial symptoms are usually associated with marked lividity and gasping for breath, and may be due to a variety of causes, such as the presence of foreign bodies (false teeth, detached nasal polypi, etc.), to excessive flow of mucus, to blood, to extraneous pressure upon the trachea, to falling back of the tongue over the glottis (sometimes termed " swallowing the tongue "), etc., etc. Under this head, too, may be included those cases described by Lord Lister, in which the soft structures at the back of the throat fall together like curtains in front of the glottis. Respiratory paralysis.—Of course, under the above circumstances, whether syncopal or asphyxial, the breathing tends to fail; but when we speak of "failure of breathing" under anaesthetics, and especially under chloroform, what is usually meant is the failure due to an overdose. The nervous system becoming paralysed, the medullary centres cease to act,