TREATMENT OF ULCERS IN GENERAL. 45 serviceable to the patient if there be any subsequent stiffness either of joints or muscles. For example, in the case of the leg, on which ulcers are most frequently met with, it is well to apply outside and inside lateral splints which grasp the leg, the knee, and the foot, and fix the ankle- joint so that the foot is at right angles to the leg. Favour the venous return.—Another principle of the greatest im- portance is to favour the return circulation. The great danger of venous obstruction has already been insisted upon. It may lead to the transformation of a simple or varicose ulcer into a callous one, and the ulcer will refuse to heal so long as no provision is made for the proper return of blood from the affected area. This indication may be carried out in various ways, but by far the most efficient method is to place the part at a higher level than the heart. Hence, in the case of ulcers of the leg, the patient should be put to bed, the limb elevated on a pillow, the knee and ankle-joints fixed, and the patient not allowed to get up for any purpose whatever till cicatrization is complete. Any relaxation of this rule will not only delay the healing of the ulcer, but may lead to an extension of the ulceration. If the part be elevated, the venous return is greatly favoured, and, even without any other treatment, the exudation which has been poured out is rapidly absorbed. As a result, the pressure upon the arterioles going to the surface of the ulcer is removed, and a plentiful flow of arterial blood is again supplied to it. Thus rest and the elevated position not only favour the return of blood from the part, but also the flow of blood to it. Promote the absorption of the exudation.—Not only should the return of blood be favoured, but measures should also be taken to get rid of the exudation, which presses on and interferes with the circula- tion in the part. The elevated position and rest in bed are of themselves no doubt sufficient to do this ; but if time be an object, various measures may be taken to accelerate the absorption of the exudation. Of these, one of the best is massage. Where massage is employed with a view of getting rid of the thickening around an ulcer, it should at first be applied to the parts above the ulcer, and later on, as the skin gets softer in that region, the area subjected to the massage may be increased downwards. If the massage were at first applied to the part below the ulcer, the absorption would not be satisfactory, owing to the presence of the exuda- tion above. Another way in which the exudation may be got rid of is by pressure, and this plan is especially useful where patients will not lie up. Pressure may be applied in two ways ; either by strapping, or by elastic bandages. The older plan was by the use of strapping, but it is not so good as elastic pressure. In employing strapping, strips of adhesive plaster are applied fairly tightly around the ulcer and the parts in its vicinity. These strips should be about an inch to an inch and a quarter in breadth, and rather more than the circumference of the limb in length. They are