79 PHAGEDENA. from the presence of gas which is developed in the tissues in enormous quantities. Treatment.—The first point in the treatment is prophylaxis. Where wounds are soiled with earth or dirt especial care should be taken to dis- infect them, and the best plan is to place the patient under an anaesthetic, to scrub out the earth with a nail brush and the strong mixture, and then to apply undiluted carbolic acid to the whole surface of the wound. It must be remembered that acute traumatic gangrene is not the only disease which results from soiling of wounds with earth, malignant oedema and above all tetanus being very often produced in a similar manner. Hence thorough disinfection of such wounds is imperative. Local Treatment.—In acute traumatic gangrene of the extremities, when the disease has once been established, amputation offers the only chance of saving the patient. Almost all the patients attacked by this affection die, and unfortunately even with amputation only about 5 per cent, recover, because, unless at a very early stage, it is extremely difficult and often impossible to get above the disease. In amputating, the very greatest care must be taken to disinfect the skin and more especially to avoid soiling the amputation wound with the discharge from the gangrenous part. Hence, in addition to the ordinary disinfection of the skin at the seat of amputation, the gangrenous extremity should be wrapped up in anti- septic gauze which has been wrung out of the strong mixture, and this is firmly fastened round the limb, well above the upper limit of the gangrene, so that none of the contents of the bullje, etc., can run out. This is done by an assistant who is not afterwards allowed to take any part in the operation. In operating on these cases the use of strychnine and the other measures employed in the prevention of shock (see Chap. VI.), should be especially attended to. The general treatment consists in the free administration of stimulants and a generous diet. (2) Phagedena.—The second form of specific gangrene is phagedena, a disease practically never seen nowadays, but formerly very common, especially in times of war. It is undoubtedly a parasitic affection, but the exact nature of the organism is unknown. It consists essentially in the production on the wound of a pseudo-membranous material, beneath which the tissues ulcerate or become gangrenous, and two forms, namely, an ulcerative and a gangrenous one, are usually described. In the ulcerative form a pulpy membrane appears on the surface of the wound; beneath this, cup-like losses of substance occur, and subsequently rapid ulceration takes place along the planes of the tissues. In the other form, the wound becomes covered with a thicker membrane, which is dark coloured, very pulpy, extending rapidly, leading to sloughing of the skin and muscles, and not uncommonly attacking the vessels and giving rise to severe haemorrhage. The disease spreads with great rapidity, and the patient dies in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours.