194 WOUNDS. for it if symptoms of quinism develop. The wound should be swabbed out with undiluted carbolic acid, but the local symptoms are usually very slight and seldom require any special treatment. This acute form is extremely fatal, and, in spite of anything that may be done, the probability of the patient's recovery is very slight indeed. We shall return to the subject again in dealing with infective diseases of wounds (see Chap. X.). BURNS AND SCALDS. Causes.—Burns and scalds are caused by contact with solids, liquids, or gases, at a high temperature. Radiant heat only causes quite superficial burns, such as blisters and erythematous conditions of the skin. Liquids below 212° F. cause erythema, but at or above that point they produce extensive burns, especially if the liquid has fallen upon the clothes, because, before the patient has time to divest himself of his clothing, the liquid has remained in contact with the skin for some considerable time. Caustic liquids cause extensive sloughs. Red-hot or white-hot solids cause deep and limited lesions; fused metals are extremely rapid in their action and char the parts completely. Degrees of Burn.—The local phenomena of burns are, as originally proposed by Dupuytren, usually described under six headings or degrees. The first degree is caused by the transient action of a flame, or by a body below 212° F., and is marked by redness of the skin, followed by some swelling and pain, and subsequently by desquamation. The second degree is caused by a more prolonged action of a flame, or by boiling water, or by solids at 212° F.; and in this case the Malpighian layer of the skin is disorganised, and inflammation, as shown by erythema and the formation of bullae, follows. The third degree is reached when one of the foregoing causes has acted for a longer period, or where the burn is caused by red- hot metal, boiling salt water, or oil. Here there is destruction of the epidermis, the Malpighian layer, and the papillfe of the skin, the result being that there is erythema, the formation of bullae and superficial dry eschars; the slough separates in from about six to seven days. The fourth degree is where the whole thickness of the skin and part of the subcutaneous tissue are destroyed; in it there is a black eschar with a white circle around it, and then beyond that a zone of redness. There is less pain in this form of burn, but the healing is slow. The fifth degree is where not only the skin but the subcutaneous tissue and portions of the muscles are completely destroyed; it is due to the long-continued action of flame or red-hot metals, or to chemical substances such as arsenious paste, caustic potash, etc.; a dry slough is formed, and surrounding this there are the various minor degrees of burns, from sloughing of part of the skin in the neighbourhood to simple erythema at a distance. In this form of burn, the joints are frequently opened, especially as the slough separates, and very serious results may consequently ensue. The sixth degree of burn is