CHANCROID, OR SOFT SORE. 239 (a) Where there is no Phimosis.—In sores under the prepuce where the latter is not oedematous and can be readily retracted, the prepuce should be pulled back and the whole exposed surface thoroughly washed with a 1-20 carbolic lotion and subsequendy with a 1-2000 sublimate, especial attention being paid to the thorough cleansing of the sulcus behind the corona glandis. The sores should then be dried carefully and a 10 per cent, solution of cocaine applied to their surfaces. After a few minutes this is wiped off, and then the nitric acid is applied either by means of a rod or brush of glass, or, failing that, with a small piece of wood, such as a match. The surface and edges of the sore are thoroughly mopped with the acid and great care must be taken not to let it run over the neighbouring mucous membrane. After allowing the acid to soak into the tissues for five minutes or so, any excess is neutralised by plunging the end of the penis into a saturated solution of carbonate of soda till effervescence entirely ceases. The parts should next be thoroughly washed with warm sublimate solution, and powdered thickly over with iodoform, outside which is applied boracic lint dipped in warm boracic lotion; the prepuce is then pulled forward over the lint so as to keep it in position. The prepuce should be retracted three or four times daily, the parts bathed in a warm 1-2000 sublimate solution, the boracic lint carefully removed and at once burnt, and a fresh piece applied. As the sores heal, the lint need not be changed so often. When granulation is complete, the iodoform and lint may be abandoned, and \ strength boracic ointment substituted, until healing is complete. The same treatment should be adopted in cases where the sores are situated on the glans penis. (d) Where there is Phimosis.—Where the prepuce is oedematous and cannot be retracted, there should be no hesitation in slitting it up so as to get free access to the sores. In the first place an anjesthetic is given, and the parts beneath the prepuce are syringed out as thoroughly as possible with warm 1-2000 sublimate solution. The prepuce is then slit up along the middle line upon its dorsal surface so that the glans can be thoroughly exposed; this may be done by thrusting a curved bistoury beneath it or by introducing one blade of a pair of blunt-pointed scissors between the glans and the prepuce. The parts are thus fully exposed and are then washed with the strong mixture, and subsequently with a 1-2000 sublimate solution and the sores thoroughly cauterised in the manner just described, powdered with iodoform and dressed with wet boracic lint. As the latter very readily dries up, it is as well to put a piece of guttapercha tissue outside it and to keep the penis in a boracic bag (see p. 230). Iodoform is objectionable on account of its smell, and, therefore, as soon as the sore begins to assume a healthy appearance, its use may be discontinued. Phagedenic sores should also be treated by cauterisation, and especial care must be paid to cleanliness, and if, as the slough separates, portions of the sore show fresh signs of infection, they should again be destroyed.