DIABETIC GANGRENE. 75 unlikely to occur. Wherever it appears imperative to relieve the local congestion, we should prefer the use of scarifications (after the skin, etc., had been rigorously purified) followed by the application of warm fomenta- tions to encourage bleeding. General Treatment.—With the local applications must be combined the administration of internal remedies. Of course, if there be a marked hysterical condition, the patient may be treated by massage and careful feeding, combined with isolation, as recommended by Weir Mitchell. Apart from this, some drugs seem to be of benefit, although there is apparently none that may be looked upon as having any specific effect upon the affection. Chief among these is opiimi, which is useful in some cases. Possibly it may to a certain extent allay the spasm, or at any rate calm the agonizing pain that is often present, and in these cases it may be used with considerable advantage. The administration of quinine in doses of three or four grains three times a day is also in some cases likely to be of use, both constitutionally and to the local condition. If there be pronounced anaemia, iron and arsenic may be administered, the former as Blaud's preparation in capsules of five to ten grains three times a day, the latter in the form of Fowler's solution, beginning with a dose of three drops upon a piece of sugar taken three times a day, and gradually increased until twelve or fifteen minims are taken at a time. Nitrite of ajtiyl has been recommended from a theoretical consideration of its action, but apparently without any marked benefit. Any uterine or ovarian trouble should be looked for, and if present should receive appro- priate treatment. In addition to the use of drugs, the patient should be encouraged to take plenty of light food and to have sufllicient exercise in the fresh air. The affected limb should of course be wrapped up warmly in flannel or lambswool, and the greatest care must be taken to avoid exposing the extremities to sudden and extreme alterations of temperature. When sloughing has actually taken place, the treatment already described for dry gangrene must be carried out, antiseptic dressings being used, and the part allowed to dry up. In no case is amputation necessary. (4) The fourth form of indirect gangrene, due to g°eneral causes, is in some ways the most important of all. Three varieties may be mentioned, namely, (a) gangrene in connection with diabetes, {b) gangrene after acute fevers, and (^r) gangrene following the use of ergot, (a) Diabetic Gangrene.—There are two ways in which diabetes may be related to gangrene. First, there is the death of the part directly dependent upon the presence of diabetes, or the true "diabetic gangrene"; second, there is gangrene from some other cause taking place in a patient who is diabetic. In any case, the presence of diabetes affects the progress of the gangrene in a very marked degree; it spreads with greater rapidity, there is more inflammation about the gangrenous part, and the gangrene, if dry at first, tends to become moist. The patient generally dies either of some septic complication, of diabetic coma, or of exhaustion.