TUMOURS. 258 The Lipomata are tumours composed of fatty tissue which in structure resembles normal fat and is arranged in lobules with connective tissue between them. The cells are somewhat larger than normal fat cells. Some- times the tumours contain a considerable quantity of fibrous or mucous tissue, and they are met with in two forms. One is termed the diffuse lipoma, in which there is a diffuse formation of coarse fat not surrounded by any capsule. It is usually met with at the back of the neck on each side of the spine, or over each anterior triangle of the neck, but it occurs also over the abdomen, the arms, and so forth. More frequently, however, the lipomata form circumscribed encapsuled tumours, which are very soft and lobulated; there is often only very delicate tissue connecting the lobules with the main tumour. They are usually smooth on their deeper surface, and when growing in the subcutaneous tissues they penetrate among the fibrous bands connecting the under surface of the skin with the tissues beneath, so that the skin does not move quite freely over them. They possess a more or less well-defined capsule, out of which they are readily shelled. They occur at all ages and grow slowly, and are met with especially in the subcutaneous tissues where fat is abundant, such as the back of the neck, the front of the thigh, over the abdomen and the arms, in the axillae, in the buttocks, etc. Treatment.—{a) Of tlie encapsuled variety.—These growths are readily removed, and shell out of their capsule without any trouble, but great care must be taken to see that none of the outlying lobules are detached and left behind, as lobules so left will grow again and form the starting point of a fresh tumour. The best way to remove a lipoma is to squeeze up the tumour forcibly between the thumb and forefinger of the left hand and make the skin very tense. Then, on incising the capsule and the parts over it freely, the fipoma is forcibly projected through the incision, and its complete enucleation is insured. Difficulty may arise when they occur in parts subject to pressure. Here inflam- mation, leading to adhesions between the tumour and the skin covering it, or the structures over which it lies, is not uncommon. In such cases care must be taken to remove the whole of the tumour, and it is generally best to remove the adherent skin as well. {b) Of the diffuse variety.—The whole of a diffuse Hpoma cannot, as a rule, be removed, but considerable improvement, at any rate as regards appearance, can be effected by excising as much of it as possible; in doing this care must of course be taken to avoid damage to important structures, such as nerves, etc. Choudromata are tumours consisting essentially of cartilage, of which they may embrace all varieties, including the ramified cell form without capsule usually found in embryonic conditions and in some of the lower animals. For the most part the cartilage resembles the normal hyaline variety, but it differs from it in that the vessels penetrate into the cartilaginous nodules.