VARIETIES OF ULCERS. 4' (9) Pressure Ulcer.—Tliis form of ulcer occurs in the sole of the foot, and is the result of long-continued but not necessarily severe pressure. In the first place, the pressure leads to thickening of the epidermis and the formation of a callosity, and underneath this callosity inflam- mation and suppuration occur. When the thickened epidermis is re- moved, a deep sore with great hypertrophy of the skin around the edge is exposed. (10) The Paralytic Ulcer is one that occurs in connection witli deficient innervation. In paralysed limbs it is not uncommon to meet with atonic ulcers which are painless, quite superficial and often multiple. They have as a rule imperfect granulations upon the surface, and they most commonly occur about the phalanges of the fingers and toes. They are also, however, found on the sole of the foot, and in this situation they are generally ascribed to pressure, and assume more the appearances characteristic of pressure ulcers. In connection with these ulcers due to pressure upon a paralysed part, the so-called perforating ulcer of the foot deserves special notice. It occurs on parts exposed to marked pressure, and is chiefly met with beneath the heads of the metatarsal bones, more especially that of the great toe. It is generally seen in men over 40 who have much standing or walking, and it is not necessarily connected directly with any actual paralytic condition of the limb, but is supposed to result from a con- dition of peripheral neuritis. The affection commences as a callosity, followed by inflammation of the skin underneath, and a sore forms, resembling at first in all respects an ordinary pressure ulcer. The ulcer extends in depth, becomes more or less funnel-shaped, and rapidly pene- trates as far as the bone. The latter may then become the seat of a rarefying osteitis, and may be entirely destroyed opposite the ulcer, which continues to increase in depth until ultimately the dorsum of the foot is reached and a complete perforation is established. When the ball of the toe is the seat of the affection, the metatarso-phalangeal joint is often opened and destroyed. The base of the ulcer is generally covered with reddish warty granulations, the skin is very foul, and the cavity of the ulcer is filled up by a dense mass of epidermis, which undergoes foul decomposition. In some cases the epidermis spreads down the sides of the ulcer, and in many there is marked proliferation of it around the mar- gins of the sore. (11) In certain constitutional states, such as diabetes, ulcers may form. In diabetes, inflammation or ulceration may follow the slightest scratch or cut, and the chief characteristics of a diabetic ulcer are its rapid spread, the presence of considerable inflammation around it, and often sloughing of the tissues. The endarteritis which occurs in diabetes and the special liability of the tissues in that affection to septic infection, have probably much to do with the rapidity of spread and the inflammatory condition of diabetic ulcers.