85 PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. such a position that the tongue does not fall back over the glottis. In some few cases, the patient naturally assumes the lateral position, and in this the anfesthetist should acquiesce. The great object in view is, to make the necessarily disagreeable, preliminary stages, as short, and as little unpleasant as possible. The choice of the Anjesthetic—To a considerable extent the comfort of both patient and operator, and to some extent the actual safety of the patient, depends, not only upon the skill of the administrator, but also upon the particular anaesthetic used. As far as the choice of the anaesthetic is concerned, the patient, the operator, and the anaesthetist himself are all factors which have to be considered before making the final selection, so that it is almost impossible to do more than lay down very general rules ; each individual case must be decided upon its own merits. In the first place, it is obvious, that rules that are intended for those with whom it is not a matter of absolutely every-day experience to administer an anaesthetic, cannot have the same weight when applied to the specialist. An example of this is seen in the use of ether. When plenty of practice in the administration of this drug is obtain- able, it may be given in the majority of cases ; but, on the other hand, when only used very occasionally, the results are apt at first to be dis- appointing, unless the cases are carefully selected. In the second place, some surgeons object to the use of particular anaesthetics in certain operations. For example, some surgeons consider that chloroform alone should be given in abdominal cases, while most anaesthetists are of opinion that ether does equally well. In cases such as these, it is probably to the best interests of the patient to adopt the views of the surgeon ; the latter ought not to be allowed to feel, or even to imagine, that his work would have been better done, had a different anaesthetic been used. In the third place, it may be laid down as an axiom, that it is unwise to employ a stronger anaesthetic than is absolutely necessary. The relative strength of the various substances may be assumed to be as follows, commencing with the most feeble, viz. : nitrous oxide, ether, diluted chloroform (the A.C.E. and other mixtures), and pure chloroform. Factors determining choice of Anaesthetic.—In choosing an anaesthetic, the most important of the determining factors are those which concern the patient himself, and the nature, etc., of the operation to be performed; these must, therefore, be considered a little more in detail. A distinction, too, must be drawn between the anaesthetic with which it is advisable to induce or commence the anaesthesia, and that with which it is possible to maintain or continue it. (r) Duration of the Operation.—Nitrous oxide is available in short operations of under two or three minutes. These include such operations of minor surgery as opening superficial abscesses, dilating and slitting up sinuses, some tenotomies, removing small aural polypi, passive movement of stiff joints, and, of course, the extraction of teeth.