164 WOUNDS. the operation, but, while there is no objection to this procedure, it is unnecessary. As it is impossible to treat catgut in this manner (it would be spoilt by boiling), the method would involve treating the silk in one way and the catgut in another. If silk be boiled, it should afterwards be placed in a 1-2000 sublimate solution until it is required for use. Preparation of Sponges.—The proper preparation of the sponges is of great importance. The most satisfactory method of removing blood from a wound is by the ordinary marine sponge; in our opinion, a much more satisfactory plan in many ways than the use of swabs ©f absorbent cotton wool, which have come very much into fashion of late years. In the first place, sponges soak up blood better; in the second place, when using swabs, shreds of cotton wool are apt to be left behind in the wound; and in the third place, the swabs as ordinarily prepared by nurses are very often septic. After an operation the sponges are thoroughly washed, first with cold water to remove as much of the fibrin as possible, and then with soda and warm water; and it is well to leave them soaking in water for from 24 to 48 hours, rinsing them well once or twice during that time in order to free them more rapidly from the fibrin or mucus that has become entangled in them. At the end of the time they are again thoroughly washed and squeezed dry, and are then placed in a vessel containing a 1-20 carbolic solution. They should be kept in this for at least a week before they are again used, the carbolic being changed every second or third day on account of its loss of strength from the evaporation of the acid. If this be done, there is no objection whatever to the use of sponges, and they are much more convenient than swabs. The mode of cleansing them during an operation will be referred to immediately (see p. 166). Swabs.—The only case where the use of swabs is advisable is where there is a foul septic wound, as in extravasation of urine, or in operations about the rectum, as, for example, in piles or fissure of the anus. If swabs be employed, they should be made of salicylic or plain absorbent wool, and wrapped up in gauze to prevent as far as possible threads of the wool being left in the wound, and when they are thus made they should be boiled. Before use it is well to squeeze them out of a 1-2000 sublimate solution, and indeed, if they are used for antiseptic work, they should be handed to the surgeon or his assistant in a bowl of this solution, out of which he should squeeze them himself The nurse should never be trusted to do this, as she is very apt to soil them afterwards; the same remark applies to sponges (see p. 166). Precautions during course of Operation.—Having in this way rendered aseptic everything coming in contact with the wound, further precautions must be taken during the course of the operation to see that no infection of the instruments, sponges, etc., shall by any chance occur; and the most essential of these precautions is to surround the area of the operation with towels rendered aseptic by being wrung out of hot antiseptic