2l8 WOUNDS. organisms and putting a stop to their action. This view may possibly help to explain the results of treatment. Treatment.—In the treatment of erysipelas it is needless to say that prophylaxis is extremely important, and as erysipelas is never met with in aseptic wounds, the best prophylactic is to secure the asepsis of all wounds. (a) General.—The mild form usually met with nowadays generally subsides spontaneously without any special treatment. Provided there be no internal complication, such as visceral disease, it generally suffices to administer a saline purgative, such as a couple of drachms to half an ounce of sulphate of magnesia, and to see that the bowels are afterwards kept open daily with smaller doses (about a drachm) of the same drug, given in warm water the first thing in the morning. A more pleasant aperient is effervescing sulphate of soda in doses of a drachm, or an ordinary seidlitz powder. Quinine every four hours in doses of one or two grains and tincture of perchloride of iron are looked upon as being of special value; fifteen minims of the tincture of perchloride of iron may be administered in water every three hours. The diet should be fluid, and should consist of milk, beef tea, or strong soups given in fairly large quantity. (^) Local.—Various forms of local treatment have been employed, and in the more severe forms of erysipelas it is important to make the most strenuous efforts to check the local progress of the disease. In former days a very favourite plan was to draw a line on the skin around and just beyond the area of the redness with solid nitrate of silver, or to paint on liniment of iodi?ie in a similar manner, and, as a matter of experience, it was found that in a certain number of cases the erysipelas stopped at this line and seemed unable to cross it. At first sight this treatment does not seem very rational, but if we bear in mind what has just been said as to the relation of erysipelas to phagocytosis the treatment becomes explicable and logical. If the skin be irritated with nitrate of silver or strong iodine there will naturally be increased leucocytosis in the part, and if this be done a day or two before the erysipelas organisms reach the area to which the irritant has been applied, they will find the tissues and vessels blocked with large numbers of leucocytes, and the phagocytic action of the latter may suffice to prevent their further spread. Hence it seems probable that one reason why this method did not uniformly succeed is that the application was not always made sufficiently early or far enough away from the spreading margin to permit a sufficient accumulation of leucocytes to occur in the part before the organisms reached it. This is not a method of treatment that we are disposed to reject, provided that care be taken to apply the irritant very thoroughly at some considerable distance from the edge of the redness; in fact, the method of treatment which at the present time seems to promise best, namely Kraske's method, probably acts on this principle. Kraske's Method consists in making numerous small scarifications in the skin at some distance beyond the spreading edge of the erysipelas,