WOUNDS THAT CANNOT BE KEPT ASEPTIC. 183 may be strongly recommended. It is especially in these cases that iodoform is of value, and it is well, after having sponged the cut surface with the chloride of zinc solution, to powder it with iodoform crystals. Care must, however, be taken in cases of wounds in the mouth, not to be too lavish in the use of iodoform, because otherwise a considerable quantity is swallowed, and symptoms of iodoform poisoning may appear. As soon as the wound is granulating, mild antiseptic washes are all that is necessary in most cases, the best being weak sanitas (about a tea- spoonful to a tumbler of water), or permanganate of potash (one or two grains to the ounce). If the granulations become prominent, the occasional application of solid nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper will keep them down (see p. 58). In cases where the wound involves both skin and mucous membrane, as, for example, in wounds of the cheek, the skin wound should be stitched up with interrupted sutures of silkworm gut, but the wound on the mucous surface should be left open, and should be painted over with chloride of zinc solution, and powdered with iodoform. A piece of boracic lint or gauze wet with a 1-2000 sublimate solution should be laid over the line of the incision in the skin for a few hours, till the bleeding has quite ceased, and then half strength boracic ointment and boracic lint may be substituted. Where there is a pocket in the cellular tissue communicating with the mucous surface, as, for example, where the wound involves the neck and throat, a large drainage tube must be inserted at the lowest point of the wound, so as to prevent accumulation. After three or four days, the tube should be taken out, and replaced by one of smaller calibre. This should be washed in a 1-20 carbolic acid solution, and subsequently in a 1-2000 sublimate solution, every time the external dressing is changed. The ointment should in these cases be changed night and morning. It is usually about the third week before the use of the drainage tube can be given up. Quite recently an antistreptococcic serum has been introduced for use in cases of streptococcic infection. The entrance of streptococci is the most serious and most common form of infection in operations on mucous mem- branes, especially about the mouth, and this serum seems likely to prove of great value when used as a prophylactic measure before the operation.^ The object of the preliminary injection of this serum is to protect the body for a time, if possible, against streptococcic invasion, so that the healing of the wound is undisturbed by the action of these organisms; 20 c.cm of this serum should be injected two days before, and 10 c.cm on the morning of the operation. If there be not time for this, the injection of 20 ccm the night before, and a similar quantity on the morning of the operation, must suffice. A special syringe, which can be disinfected by boiling, must be used. The best place for the injection is in the flanks or the loins; the skin should be thoroughly purified in the first place with strong mixture, and the syringe and needles should be boiled immediately before use. ^See Practitiontr, April, 1897.