17 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. for the subsidence of the inflammation. If the seat of the inflammation be a joint, it should be fixed; if it be any part affected by muscular move- ments, rest must also be obtained, and always, if possible, in bed or in an elevated position. It has already been pointed out, with regard to acute inflammation, that the position of the part affects the congestion, and in chronic inflammation also, the relief of the congestion by the adoption of the elevated position is a very essential element in the treatment. Even although it may be impossible to remove the exciting cause (e.g. tubercle), much good may be done by taking steps to diminish the inflammation itself, because inflamed tissues are more easily invaded by the morbid process than healthy ones, and if this condition of chronic inflammation be diminished, the extension of the primary disease may thereby be checked. In addition to rest, there are various other measures which are employed, of which perhaps the most important is counter-irritation. By counter- irritation is meant the application of an irritant to some superficial part of the body, usually to the skin, either over the seat of the inflammation or at a little distance from it, more especially to a part which is in intimate nervous connection with the inflamed area. Exactly how benefit results from the use of irritation of the skin is not at all evident; we can only suppose that the irritant acts in some way through the nervous system. As has already been mentioned in speaking of acute inflammation, the poultices and fomentations which are of such value there probably owe their virtue partly to the principle of counter-irritation, and they may be classed as the mildest counter-irritants with which we are acquainted. In cases of chronic inflammation, however, some more active agent is usually necessary. Of the counter-irritants most commonly employed, we shall refer to mustard, iodine, blisters, and the actual cautery. Of these, mustard is the mildest, and is employed either in the form of mustard leaves or as a plaster. The mustard leaves, which only require damping before being applied, are very handy and cleanly, and are generally used when the effect of counter-irritation alone is required. As a substitute for them, the ordinary mustard plaster, made by mixing mustard with tepid water into a thick paste and spreading the mass thus obtained on a piece of linen or brown paper, may be employed. In using either of these pre- parations, the guide to the length of time that they should be left on is the patient's sensations. Generally they will require removal in from ten to twenty minutes ; if left on longer than that they are apt to blister, and special care should be taken not to leave them on too long in the case of young children, in whom they may produce actual sloughing. If, in addition to the counter-irritation, the warm poultice action be also required, a mustard and linseed poultice may be employed. The simplest plan is to make the poultice with boiling water in the ordinary way (see p. 11), using one part of mustard to four parts of linseed meal. If a still more B