INFLAMMATION. 22 of applying Scott's dressing is to spread the ointment upon a sufficiently large piece of lint, cut this into strips, and apply them to the limb in the usual imbricated layers. Outside these, ordinary strapping is applied in a similar manner. A splint is not always necessary. The part should be shaved before the strapping is applied, and the dressing should be renewed every four or five days, both because the skin is apt to become raw, and also because the strapping slips and the dressing becomes loose. Lastly, we have to consider massage in relation to chronic inflammation. Massage is chiefly of value where the inflammation has come more or less to a standstill, and where it is a question of causing absorption of the inflammatory products. If employed during the active stage it is apt to make matters worse. The essential principles of massage are, in the first place, to break up the products of the chronic inflammation, and, in the second place, to promote the absorption of the broken up materials by the lymphatic vessels. Various actions are employed with the view of breaking up the new material. The mildest form is what is termed " friction mas- sage," that is to say, with two or three fingers of one hand the part is rubbed in a circular manner for some time, in order to break up the exudation, and then the material is forced into the lymphatic vessels by an upward and more uniform pressure, which is called "effleurage." In effleu- rage, the part which has been subjected to the friction is grasped with the whole hand, more especially between the thenar and hypothenar eminences, and is firmly and gently squeezed in an upward direction. This is repeated a good many times, and then again the friction is resumed, and again the effleurage follows. Where the material is more difficult to break up, another action, called " petrissage" or firm kneading of the part, is resorted to. The part is grasped between the fingers and the thumb, and is firmly kneaded, and then, following the kneading, the broken up products are forced into the lymphatics by the action of effleurage. Lastly, where the material is still more dense, and more especially where it is limited to a small area, the action of " tapotement" is employed, that is to say, the part is firmly tapped, either with the fingers or a special instrument, and, after repeated and violent tappings as hard as the patient can bear, effleurage is again carried out. At first, massage should be very gentle, but, a's the patient becomes accustomed to it, the more forcible measures may be adopted. As a rule, a sitting of twenty minutes once a day is sufficient, but after three or four days, if distinct benefit results, there may be two sittings daily, morning and evening, and as time goes on the length of the sittings may be increased to three-quarters of ail hour or an hour at a time. The length of time required for a cure, of course, entirely depends on the nature of the case and the progress made: except in extensive and obstinate cases, three weeks generally suffice. Massage is especially useful after inflammation which causes adhesion either between muscles, or between tendons and their sheaths, or in joints or wherever much thickening is left after inflammation or injury.