ULCERATION. 50 of contraction depends entirely on the amount of young granulation tissue produced. Nevertheless, a considerable amount of contraction will inevitably occur where healing has been obtained in this way, and the resulting scar is not materially stronger than that obtained by permitting the sore to heal from the edge. With a view of obtaining a sounder scar, much more extensive and thicker portions of the skin must be taken, and the grafts must be applied close together. There are two ways of doing this : either by using the whole thickness of the skin, or by employing Thiersch's method, in which about half the thickness of the skin is shaved off. We need not describe the procedure where the whole thickness of the skin is employed, partly because the results are not satisfactory, and partly because all the con- ditions for which it was introduced are far better fulfilled by Thiersch's method. Thiersch's method.—In employing Thiersch's method, the skin which is to be used for the grafting must first be thoroughly disinfected in the usual manner, namely, by turpentine, soap and strong mixture, and it must also be carefully shaved. The presence of hairs on the grafts seems to materially interfere with their union. The skin of the front of the thigh or the flexor surface of the fore-arm is usually employed for the purpose. Preparation of Ulcer.—(a) Preliminary.—The sore itself must also be prepared beforehand. It is of no use to graft a sore which is actually ulcerating ; it must be brought into a healthy condition, and healing must have commenced before grafting is likely to be successful. The best criterion that healing is taking place is the presence, at the edges, of the dry red line which indicates recently formed epithelium. Some surgeons wait for a considerably longer time before grafting, in order to get a firm layer of granulations, but our experience is that, as soon as healing begins around the edge, the sore may be safely grafted upon. A second essential is that the sore shall be aseptic. If it is suppurating, and the discharges are septic, the graft—which is after all merely a piece of dying tissue—will become impregnated with decomposing pus, and will rapidly become loosened, die, and undergo decomposition. The methods of rendering the ulcer aseptic have already been described (see p. 46). {b) Operative.—With a sore that is aseptic and beginning to heal, the following is the method of procedure. The patient having been put under an anaesthetic, the granulations over the whole surface of the ulcer are evenly scraped away, taking care, however, only to remove the soft Fig. 13.—Thiersch's Method of Skin- grafting. Ulcer prepared for grafting. The newly healed edge has been cut away, and the surface has been scraped till all the granulations have been removed and the firmer layer of newly formed fibrous tissue exposed.