TRAUMATIC FEVER. cation pure and simple. Should, however, any of the organisms producing this septic intoxication be capable of parasitic growth, and should they gain an entrance into the living tissues of the wound, the condition known as traumatic fever arises when the wound is of any size. This traumatic fever is due partly to the absorption of the products of sapro- phytic growth in the wound, and partly also to the entrance of pyogenic organisms; it generally continues until the establishment of granulation and suppuration. When it occurs, the reactionary pyrexia which often follows operations performed antiseptically, runs up to 103° or 104° F. instead of abating, and then slowly begins to fall in an intermittent manner, till about the fourth or fifth day, when it falls rapidly, the final descent coinciding with the complete establishment of granulation. This condition of traumatic fever, unless it end in septicaemia or pyjemia, does not usually prove fatal; at the same time suppuration always occurs in the wound, and attention must be especially directed to the local condition. Treatment.—As soon as traumatic fever sets in, the wound must be dressed, and arrangements made for efficient drainage. Where no drainage has been employed, the wound should be thoroughly opened up and large tubes inserted. Where one has been inserted at the time of operation, the wound should be washed out with warm boracic lotion, with the object of getting rid of decomposing clots. This should be done at the first dressing, but should not be repeated at the subsequent ones; washing out a wound simply injures the delicate granulation tissue without killing the organisms which, being of the ordinary pyogenic variety, have already penetrated into the tissues. Thus, besides failing to disinfect the wound, it may, by injuring the granulations, enable the organisms to penetrate freely into the body and set up septicaemia or pyaemia. The antiseptic dressings should be continued, and changed every day, and the surgeon must simply wait until he sees whether the condition merely ends in suppuration, or whether some more serious complication is going to arise. When the case ends in suppuration, the temperature falls about the fourth or fifth day, and the patient soon recovers. The diet should be somewhat restricted, and, unless the temperature be high and the general condition bad, it is well to avoid the use of stimulants, or at any rate to give them only in very small quantities; during the acute sthenic stage of inflammatory fever they are not really called for. The patient should take plenty of "imperial drink" (see p. 14), so as to dilute the blood and keep the kidneys active; the bowels should be kept gently open with such saline aperients as seidlitz powders or drachm doses of sulphate of magnesia or effervescing sulphate of soda. ACUTE SEPTICi^lMIA. This condition is much more serious than the one just described. Like it, acute septicaemia is also apparently due to the pyogenic organisms, o