95 ADMINISTRATION OF ETHER. There are three special points in connection with ether anaesthesia which must be noted. If the vapour be introduced too rapidly, or its strength increased too suddenly, some temporary laryngeal spasm, with more or less coughing and straining, will very likely ensue ; if this does not dis- appear in the course of a few respirations, air must be admitted and the pro- portion of vapour diminished. It is generally possible to induce anaesthesia with but little alteration in the colour; for the first four or five minutes, however, some slight lividity is excusable, but it is quite a mistake to sup- pose that persistent and marked blueness is of necessity associated with the use of ether; such a condition means either bad administration, or that the patient is not a fit subject for this particular drug. Directly the colour commences to change, air must be admitted beneath the edge of the facepiece, and if, in spite of the free admission of air, the lividity per- sists, or sufficiently profound anaesthesia cannot be obtained, it is wisest to change the anaesthetic. The third point is, that as the patient passes under the influence of the vapour, there is a considerable increase in the flow of mucus and saliva; as soon, therefore, as the muscles of the neck become sufficiently relaxed, the head must be turned to one side, so as to en- courage this excessive secretion to flow into the cheek, and so out of the mouth. The essential characteristic of ether anaesthesia is the stimulatioji. The respirations increase in frequency and depth, and, partly on account of the presence of mucus in the air passages, they are usually noisy. The pulse becomes quicker, of greater volume, and improved in tone; an erythe- matous flush, (ether rash) often appears over the neck, chest, and arms, and may be so well marked, and so extensive, as to be mistaken at first sight for one of the exanthemata. The pupils are widely dilated during the stage of excitement and struggling, moderately contracted during the comparatively light anaesthesia of the middle of the third stage, but tending, to dilate as the narcosis becomes deeper; unless this dilatation takes place very suddenly, it is not of necessity a sign of danger, as in the case of chloroform. The chief dangers in connection with the administration of ether are of an asphyxial type. The muco-salivary secretions may be so excessive that the lungs may become "water-logged," the heart's action seriously embarrassed, and the venous system engorged. The careful administrator ought never to allow a patient to get into this serious condition; the free admission of air, or if this fails, the substitution of another anaesthetic should not be delayed when once the tendency is apparent. The accumu- lation of mucus may often be checked at the outset by permitting the patient to come round just sufficiently to allow of his swallowing, or even, when it is permissible, vomiting. If, however, the condition of " water- logging " has arisen the anaesthetic must be withheld, the mouth opened, the tongue pulled forward, the mucus sponged out from the throat, vomiting encouraged, and finally, the patient must be turned on his right side ; it is