55 TREATMENT.OF ULCERS IN GENERAL. Time required for cure.—A very important point to decide is when tiie patient may be allowed to walk about after an ulcer of the leg has been skin-grafted. If he begins too soon, the grafts will almost certainly become detached. That this will be so, is evident from a consideration of the mode in which the adhesion of the grafts takes place. At first they adhere to the surface of the sore simply by means of the effused and coagulated lymph. Cells very rapidly spread into this lymph, and, in the course of two or three days, the space between the graft and the raw surface is occupied by a mass of young cells. In this tissue young blood vessels develop, and penetrate into the grafts, whilst, at the same time, the cells of the grafts grow and assist in the development of the young tissue and of the blood-vessels. Thus the graft becomes vascularized, but for a considerable time the tissue between it and the surface of the sore contains many young blood-vessels with delicate walls, and therefore, if the patient stands erect and allows the pressure of the column of blood to tell on these vessels, they rupture, and bleeding occurs beneath the graft and leads to its detachment. It requires a long time before the graft is firmly incorporated with the tissue beneath, by the development of elastic fibres; indeed, it may be reckoned that this union is not complete until from three to six months have elapsed. Cer- tainly up to three months the graft will in all probability be destroyed if the patient walks about. Hence, unless that time can be devoted to the treatment, it is not worth while employing skin-grafting for ulcers of the lower limbs. By this, however, it is not implied that it is necessary to keep the patient in bed for the whole time, but merely that the foot must not be allowed to hang down, nor must any weight be borne upon it. At the end of about six weeks the patient may be allowed to get up and lie on a sofa or sit up with the leg on another chair, but it must not be permitted to hang down. At the end of about three months he may be allowed to get about, but in order to prevent the detachment of the grafts, he should be fitted with a knee rest and peg on which he walks, the leg projecting out behind him. If possible he should not put his foot to the ground till five or six months have elapsed. Of course, in cases of sores on other parts of the body, where the erect posture does not cause congestion of the parts, the patient may be allowed to walk about almost from the first, certainly after the first three weeks. Results.—T\\^ scar which results after skin-grafting performed in this manner is of a highly satisfactory character, and by its means ulcers which have been intractable for years may be firmly and satisfactorily closed, with very little tendency to break down subsequently; but in order to obtain that result, the period of rest prescribed must be carefully attended to. Treatment where Patients cannot lie up.—The surgeon has also to treat ulcers in the Out-patient department of Hospitals, where the measures above referred to cannot be employed, as the patient is unable to afford