52 ULCERATION. dipped in 1-2000 sublimate solution is firmly bound over them, or, if the sore be small and an assistant available, he may apply the pressure. Cutting the Grafts.—While the bleeding is being arrested by pressure, the surgeon proceeds to cut his skin-grafts. In Thiersch's method the grafts may be taken from any part of the body, but as a rule they are most conveniently cut from the front of the thigh. The skin having been disinfected (see p. 46), the surgeon grasps the thigh from behind with his left hand, keeping the skin as tense as possible and also making it prominent and flat by pushing the muscles and skin forwards from the bone. This is shown in Fig. 14. The skin is further put on the stretch vertically by an assistant who pulls it upwards at the groin and downwards at the knee. The razor (shown in Fig. 15), which should have a very broad blade, is dipped in boracic lotion and is constantly kept wet by this solution whilst the grafts are being cut, just as in making microscopical sections of fresh tissues. If this irrigation be not maintained, the graft tends to adhere to the razor and may be either partially or wholly cut through before a sufficient length has been obtained. The razor is made to penetrate through about half the thickness of the skin, and then, by a lateral Fig. 15.—Thiersch's Method of Skin-grafting. Special razor for cutting g'l'ofts. The handle is ir.etal and the blade is short and very wide. In using it, it will be found most convenient to grasp it with the blade and the handle in the same straight line (see Fig. 14). sawing motion, the grafts are cut as broad and as long as possible. After a little practice it is easy to cut grafts about two inches in breadth, and six or seven in length. If one graft is not sufficient, it is best simply to slide it off the razor and leave it lying on the bleeding surface; in this way it is kept warm and moist. Some surgeons put the graft into warm saturated boracic lotion, and it is then said to spread out more easily afterwards, but by the former plan, the tissues lie in their own juices and the cells are more likely to retain their full activity. Application of Grafts.—When a sufficient number of grafts have been cut, the bandage, sponges, and protective are removed from the wound and, if the bleeding has quite stopped, as is generally the case, the grafts are applied to its surface. The latter usually has a thin layer of blood clot upon it, and this should be gently wiped away. Each graft is lifted with forceps or the fingers, and placed on the sore with the cut surface downwards, and then, by means of a couple of probes, the folds of the graft are carefully undone, and it is stretched evenly over the surface (see Fig. 16). The grafts should overlap the edges of the skin and also each