71 GANGRENE FROM OBSTRUCTION. beating strongly at the ankle joint, amputation may be performed there, preferably by means of an internal flap. In most cases the pulsation at the ankle is very slight, if present at all, and if pulsation cannot be felt there the best place for amputation is the knee joint. The thrombus which forms in the diseased vessels when the amputation is done through the ankle is very apt to extend upwards as far as the knee and lead to gangrene of ' the flaps. Generally, therefore, amputation through the knee joint is more suitable. (2) The second form of indirect gangrene is that due to some sudden obstruction of the blood-vessels. This may be the result, firstly, of pressure outside these structures, for example, after ligature, the applica- tion of tight bandages, pressure from the fractured ends of bones, etc.; secondly, of rupture of their walls, as, for example, in dislocations or in attempted reduction of dislocations; and, thirdly, of blocking of their lumen, more especially embolism with subsequent thrombosis. In the first two cases the vein may be blocked as well as the artery, and while this makes no essential difference in regard to treatment, the symptoms vary somewhat. Where the obstruction is primarily arterial, the first thing that is noticed is that the limb below becomes pallid from absence of blood; it then assumes a dark livid colour, and the various changes already described as characteristic of moist gangrene follow. In embolism there is, in addition to the sudden whiteness of the limb, violent pain at the point where the embolus has been arrested, and this is a very valuable sign as showing where the block has occurred. When, however, the case afterwards comes to amputation it must not be assumed that the seat of pain is the upper limit of the obstruction, because, subsequently to the embolism, thrombosis takes place and may extend upwards for a con- siderable distance. If there be venous as well as arterial obstruction at the commencement, the part below remains dark and becomes oedematous very quickly. In these cases the treatment depends on the extent of the gangrene, and the great question for consideration is that of amputation. Before deciding this point, sufficient time should be allowed to elapse to enable the surgeon to see how much of the collateral circulation will be established, because although at first the part may appear white and dead, a very con- siderable portion, or indeed the whole, may recover as the result of the enlargement of the anastomotic circulation. While waiting, however, pre- cautions must be taken not to allow putrefaction to occur, and also to permit drying. The skin, the toes, and the nails should be at once disin- fected in the manner already described (see p. 64), and the part wrapped up in a warm antiseptic dressing, permitting evaporation, which should be allowed to remain in position for 24 or 48 hours. If gangrene occur the part very soon loses its white colour and becomes dusky and remains cold. The finger firmly pressed into the skin makes no difference to the colour; whereas if the circulation be maintained, the part pressed upon becomes