ANESTHETICS. 96 in such cases as these, that the administration of oxygen is especially called for. In the earlier stages of ether narcosis, primary cardiac syncope seldom if ever occurs as a direct result of the inhalation, although, of course, the mere dread of the operation may have this affect; on the other hand, cases are on record in which death, occurring at a later period, appears to have been due to over-stimulation of the heart, and, perhaps, of the respiratory centre. If, then, while the patient is well under, the breathing becomes more rapid and shallower, the inhalation should be suspended for a short time until the normal condition is restored. With either the Clover's or the Ormsby's inhaler, the time occupied in producing ansesthesia must, of course, vary very considerably ; from four to six minutes may be taken as a good working average. From a calculation based upon 277 cases, in which both the duration of the operation, and the quantity of ether used was noted, one ounce of ether was estimated to last, on an average, io"95 minutes.^ After-effects.—If the patient has not been more than about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes under the anaesthetic, he passes, on discontinu- ing the inhalation, through the stages already referred to (see p. 94), but in reverse order, viz., comparatively light anaesthesia, excitement, gradually re- turning consciousness. In any event, one of the first after-effects is usually the vomiting of mucus, often frothy and ropy, and frequently bile-stained. With ether, this is apt to be very severe during the first hour or two, but as the patient is but partly conscious, it is really less distressing to him than at first sight appears. As soon as he can do so, the patient should be encouraged to wash out his mouth with warm water, and sips of hot water should be swallowed. In some cases, especially if there has been little or no sickness, more or less violent delirium is observed. The fre- quency with which serious pulmonary troubles occur after the use of ether has probably been greatly exaggerated. On the other hand, there can be no doubt that the inhalation of ether renders the lungs particularly susceptible to alterations in temperature, draughts, etc. Consequently, some bronchial irritation may occasionally follow the inhalation. It is wise, therefore, to order that the temperature of the room should not be allowed to drop below 65° F., that screens should be placed round the bed, and that for the first few hours at any rate, the patient should, if possible, be kept lying on one side, by preference the right. This latter manoeuvre not only assists the escape of saliva, etc., from the mouth, but, I believe, also facilitates the onward flow of the mucus, etc., through the pylorus, and so diminishes the tendency to retching and sickness. Occasionally, " water-logging," and the effects of over-stimulation (see p. 95) do not manifest themselves until after the patient has been put back to bed, and fatal results have been recorded from these causes at this stage; patients should, therefore, be strictly watched by a responsible person, for at least an hour or more after the '^King's College Hospital Reports, Vols. II., III., and IV.