7 ACUTE INFLAMMATION. previous scarification of the skin, and therefore without any loss of blood to the patient. Either the special cup which is sold for the purpose may be used, or a small tumbler, which answers equally well, and the edge of this should be oiled. A piece of blotting paper about two inches square is dipped in methylated spirit and placed in the bottom of the glass, and this is set on fire with a match. As soon as it has burned a few seconds the glass is inverted over the skin (which should previously have been sponged with warm water), and, as the heated air in the glass con- tracts on cooling, a partial vacuum is created, the skin and subcutaneous tissues being drawn up into the interior and forming a prominent mass full of blood. A number of cups may be applied in this way and left on for a considerable time. After a time, when the swelling of the skin has increased to such an extent as to replace the air lost by the heat, they become loose; but, should it be desired to remove the cups previously, this is quite easily done by insinuating the finger-nail beneath the rim of the cup, so as to allow of the entrance of a little air; the cup can then be readily lifted off. Where Wet Cupping is employed, the skin is first scarified in a num- ber of places, either by means of a special machine made for the purpose (see Fig. i), or by means of an ordinary lancet. The incisions should not go deeply into the skin. It is sufficient to go deep enough to draw a little blood; if the skin be cut through, until the fat is e.xposed, small pellets of the latter will be drawn up and plug the orifices and stop the bleeding. The object is to open as large a number of capillaries as possible. When this is done, the cup is applied in the manner already described, directly over the scarified area. The result is that, as a consequence of the partial vacuum, blood is drawn out of the part until the place of the air is taken by the blood which issues from the skin ; the cup then gets loose and can be removed. If further bleeding be required it can be promoted by the application of warm fomentations, or the scarified surface may be sponged free of clots and the cup again applied as before. Wet cupping is a most convenient method of withdrawing blood locally, but the quantity removed by each cup is comparatively small, being from one to three drachms. This method of treatment is especially useful in the lumbar region, for renal affections. There is no trouble in arresting the bleeding after wet cupping performed in the manner described. The last method of local blood-letting is that of scarifications and free incisions. The Scarifications are made by a lancet with the precautions Fig. I.—Scarificator for use IN Wet Cui'i'iNG. The instru- ment, with the hl.ide-; concealed (which is done by pulling the large trigger handle),' is pressed flat .ngainst the skin, and the blades are made to protrude by pressure on the button at the side of the figure. Tile depth to which the blades project is regulated by a screw seen at the bottom of the figure.