58 ULCERATION. treatment, see p. 48.) Skin-grafting (see p. 50) will be called for where the ulcer is large. (3) IVeak Ulcer.—In the case of a weak ulcer the cause of the weakness (see p. 39) must be sought for and removed. If general anaemia be the cause, it should be treated by iron, best administered in the form of Blaud's capsules, commencing with doses of five grains three times a day. While iron is the best drug to use in ordinary cases of anaemia, some cases, especially of the graver chlorotic form, yield more quickly and satisfactorily to arsenic, and therefore, if the iron does not seem to suit, liquor arsenicalis should be substituted for it, beginning with doses of three minims after food twice a day, and increasing the dose by one minim every third or fourth day up to twelve minims or more. The medicinal treatment must, of course, be accompanied by nourishing diet and good hygienic conditions. Where the cause of the weakness of the ulcer is oedema from heart or kidney disease, treatment suitable to these affections must be employed. Of local conditions one of the first things that should be looked for is difficulty in the contraction of the sore. This may result from ad- hesion to the deeper parts, from the hardness of the tissues around the sore, as in the callous ulcer, or from the size of the original sore and the large amount of cicatricial tissue formed during healing, etc. If due simply to the denseness of the scar, apart from exudation into the tissues, lateral incisions through the sound parts beyond will sometimes allow the ulcer to heal. Where the latter is adherent to bone it should be detached, portions of the thickened margin cut away, the surface scraped with a sharp spoon, and skin-grafting employed. In some instances portions of bone have been removed, or joints have been excised to allow of contraction taking place; but this is very rarely necessary, especially since the introduction of Thiersch's method of skin-grafting. In every case of weak ulcer, the part must of course be kept at rest in the elevated position, and the weak granulations should be destroyed. The best way of doing this is to scrape them away and apply undiluted carbolic acid to the raw surface, thus dis- infecting the ulcer at the same time. Where, in a sore which has been rendered aseptic, the granulations become exuberant, they should be clipped off and, after the oozing has stopped, the surface rubbed with nitrate of silver. Should there be ex- cessive growth of the granulations afterwards, they may be kept down by repeated applications of solid nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper made daily, or every other day. Care must be taken not to apply this to the healing edge. Various stimulant applications are usually advised for weak ulcers, such as solutions of sulphate of zinc (the so-called red lotion),^ or sulphate of copper in a strength of two grains to the ounce of water. These are ^The formula for "Red Lotion" is as follows: Zinci siilphalis, gr. xx ; Spiritus Rosmarini; Spiritus Lavandulae, aa 3iij > Aquae ad Oj.