CHAPTER XII. SYPHILIS. Syphilis is an infective disease, probably of a bacillary nature, which has a period of incubation and a more or less regular succession of symptoms. The disease may be acquired, usually as the result of impure sexual connection, or it may be inherited; in the latter case it is called congenital. It is generally divided into three stages or periods. ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. Primary Stage.—The first manifestation of acquired syphilis appears as an induration at the seat of innoculation, commonly termed a " hard" or " Hunterian" chancre, which generally undergoes ulceration. This in- duration arises at any time from ten days to eight weeks after infection: it most commonly occurs about the fourth week. It is followed, first by enlargement of the nearest lymphatic glands, and subsequently of those in other parts of the body. The induration at the seat of innoculation, and the enlargement of the nearest lymphatic glands are the phenomena usually included under the term " Primary Syphilis." Secondary Stage.—Following the primary condition, and usually commencing within three months after infection, a series of inflammatory phenomena affect the skin, mucous membranes, fibrous tissues, periosteum, etc., and these phenomena appear at intervals and are spread over a period of time, the length of which varies with the severity of the attack, but which roughly speaking lasts about two years. The early phenomena are usually the mildest and the most superficial, but, as time goes on, the lesions become of a severer type and are more deeply seated. During this period, which is spoken of as that of " Secondary Syphilis," are seen such affections as erythematous, papular, squamous, pustular, and nodular or tuberculated syphilides on the skin, and the occurrence of mucous patches or condylomata on the skin or mucous membranes. There is also frequently alopecia, due either to simple mal-nutrition of the hair caused by syphilis, or resulting from pustular syphilides of the scalp; in the