245 TUBERCULOSIS. of them have already been mentioned; they are the conditions of the tissues which facilitate the growth of the bacilli, such as those produced by heredity or induced by food ; careful attention to diet is therefore a very important point in treatment. Injuries not only predispose the tissues to the deposit of tubercles in the damaged part, but are also likely to increase the virulence of the disease when present. Cold, sepsis, etc., also act similarly, and further, the influence of climate and hygienic conditions are points of great importance. The relation of tuberculosis to other diseases is also of interest, for the occurrence of the latter in tuberculous patients is very apt to light up the disease or to encourage its spread. This is especially the case with regard to influenza, measles, chicken-pox, etc., and as far as possible, therefore, exposure to these diseases should be avoided. Treatment.—In dealing with tuberculous diseases we can of course only speak here of the General Treatment. The local treatment must be considered in connection with the parts affected, and will be described when we come to deal with the various regions that may be the seat of the disease. Roughly speaking, we may say that the general treatment of tuberculous disease has two aims, viz.: (i) to place the body in a better condition to resist the progress of the disease, and (2) to act directly on the tuberculous process. The methods of treatment directed to the latter end consist essentially of various forms of operations, and the use of various substances supposed to exert a destructive action on the tubercle bacillus, for example Koch's tuberculin, iodoform, benzoate of soda and many others. These latter methods have more or less failed in their object, so that we cannot recommend them, while the operative and other local measures will be discussed in connection with the parts affected. On the other hand, there are a variety of methods of general treatment which may be employed to increase the resisting power of the tissues, or to remove the causes which favour the growth of the bacillus, and these may be indicated here. An essential point is to put the patient under the best possible hygienic conditions. A tuberculous subject must be kept from exposure to cold and wet, which may not only induce tuberculosis in some part of the body not yet affected, but may also exaggerate an already existing lesion. He must have the maximum amount of fresh air and sunshine possible, and therefore it is very important that he should be sent where he can live a healthy out-door life. There is however no special climate suitable for all tuberculous cases. Some do better in a cold and bracing climate, others in a warm one, provided it be not relaxing. Hence all patients should not be sent to the same place, or to the same sort of climate; it is necessary to ascertain which suits the individual best. The only requisite that should be looked upon as a sine qud, non is that the place selected should be one where it is possible to practically be out of doors all day without danger of taking cold. When the lower extremities are unaffected care should be taken to secure a sufficient amount of