40 ULCERATION. become cedematous, and this usually happens in connection with some general cause of oedema, or some local interference with the circulation, more especially the venous return. In a third form, the granulations show excessive growth; this generally occurs when the ulceration is due, either to the inability of the sore to contract, or to irritation from the materials used for dressing. In such cases the granulations become prominent, vascular, soft, and bleed readily, and the condition is one popularly spoken of as " proud flesh." (5) Diphtheritic or Phagedenic Ulcer.—Any ulcer may be attacked by some specific virus, such as the diphtheritic, or with that which produces phagedena. In the latter case its surface becomes covered with a greyish, pulpy material, which rapidly infiltrates the surrounding skin and cellular tissue, extends both superficially and deeply, leads to extensive and very rapid destruction, constitutional infection, and not uncommonly ends in the death of the patient. (6) Varicose Ulcer.—This is a type of ulcer which originates in con- nection with varicose veins, more especially where the smaller veins of the skin are affected. This condition of varicosity of the smaller veins leads to imperfect nutrition of the skin, and either to the occurrence of a local dermatitis ("varicose eczema") or to a periphlebitis and the formation of a small abscess around the vein : the abscess bursts, and gives rise to an ulcer. In the eczematous variety, the patient usually scratches the irritable part and produces a wound, which becomes inflamed and rapidly develops into an ulcer. However produced, these varicose ulcers are usually, at first, small and superficial, with cedema around, and with soft, prominent, and somewhat cedematous granulations. If the patient continues to walk about, the condition gradually passes into that of (7) Callous Ulcer.—As a result of the continued interference with the venous return, local cedema takes place; there is exudation of coagulable lymph in the interstices of the cellular tissue, and cells accumulate there, the result being that the arterioles are much pressed upon, and the nutri- tion of the sore interfered with. The exuded material coagulates, and to a considerable extent becomes organized, and hence the skin and sub- cutaneous tissues around the ulcer become very much thickened, so that the surface of the ulcer comes to lie at a considerably lower level than its edge ; this is not really due to extension of the ulcer in depth, but rather to the elevation of the surrounding part owing to the great thickening. Thus, the characteristics of a callous ulcer are—a sore at a deeper level than the surrounding skin, a hard indurated condition of its base and of the surrounding part, and a surface of a pale yellow colour, devoid of granulation, and secreting a small quantity of thin fluid. (8) Hsemorrhagic Ulcer.—This is a form of ulcer which occurs more especially in patients suffering from scurvy; the surface of the sore is red, swollen, and bleeds readily, and the blood sometimes coagulates on the surface, forming a firm clot which was formerly spoken of as " bullock's liver."