212 WOUNDS. disinfection of the tissues. In such cases the whole extent of the wound should be opened up, and left open, after either excising the focus of the disease completely, or scraping it out and sponging it with undiluted carbolic acid; it should then be packed well with cyanide gauze sprinkled with iodoform, extending to all the recesses of the wound. The outside dressing should consist of cyanide gauze and salicylic wool, and both that and the stuffing should be renewed daily. {b) Amputatioti is called for under two conditions: (a) where the primary focus can Ofily be removed by amputating the limb, and (/?) where amputation is the only safe method of attaining that end. (a) Perhaps the most familiar cases in which amputation is obviously the only means of eradicating the primary disease are those of extensive disease—generally tuberculous—of the knee, ankle, elbow, or wrist joints, accompanied by widespread suppuration and septic sinuses; any partial operation is quite powerless to arrest it, and nothing but an amputation performed through healthy parts will be of any avail. (yS) Sometimes amputation is the only safe method of treatment even when the local disease is but small in extent. Should the changes con- sequent upon the occurrence of hectic fever be so far advanced that the patient is completely worn out, there will be little good gained by any partial operation. Quite apart from the question of the deleterious effects produced by the shock and the loss of blood, which are often necessarily very considerable in an attempt to remove the diseased parts by dissection, the patient's condition is such that he cannot bear the strain of a prolonged period of healing, and amputation therefore offers the only chance. Although formerly the presence of waxy degeneration of the kidneys was supposed to be a bar to amputation, we find now that in amputation performed antisep- tically this is not so. On the contrary, not only does the hectic fever subside after amputation, but the waxy condition of the organs tends to improve, the liver diminishes in size, the albumen becomes less and may ultimately disappear. Therefore, both with the view of saving the patient's life and of arresting the progress of the disease, amputation is clearly indicated. (2) Where tlie local disease cannot be entirely removed.—The greatest difficulty occurs when the source of infection is on the trunk, as for example in psoas abscess. Here of course it is impossible to remove the source of infection entirely, but nevertheless the only chance for the patient is to render it as little virulent as possible. The best thing is to thoroughly scrape and wash out the wound with Barker's flushing spoon (see Fig. 55) and 1-6000 sublimate solution, and then to fill it up with iodoform and glycerine emulsion in the manner recommended for chronic abscess (see Chap. XIV). Another example in which treatment is very difficult is tuberculous hip-joint disease in which the pelvis is extensively involved. Here probably the best thing is to perform amputa- tion at the hip joint, which serves the double purpose of removing a