i6 INFLAMMATION. full of cells, many of which are undergoing transition into fibrous tissue, and with the cells there are, at the more recent points, young blood vessels in large numbers. A chronically inflamed tissue, of itself, never undergoes suppuration. If so-called suppuration occur in a part which is the seat of chronic inflammation, it is due either to acute septic infection, or to the breaking down of the morbid material which is causing the inflammation ; this is especially the case in tubercle. A typical chronic abscess, which has not been acute at the commencement, is practically always tuberculous. SYMPTOMS.—Of the symptoms of chronic inflammation, the most characteristic is the presence of swelling, which is due to the formation of a large amount of new connective tissue. For example, a bone which is the seat of chronic inflammation may become enormously thickened. In certain organs where there is much soft tissue, as in the liver, the final result of a chronic inflammation may be actual diminution in the size of the part, the large amount of new connective tissue formed in it undergoing contraction, and leading to atrophy of the normal cells. In most cases, however, swelling is a prominent feature. Of the other symptoms, the pain varies with the situation and is often but slight, although in bone it is a very marked feature, owing to the compression of the nerves by the exudation in the unyielding tissues. A certain amount of tenderness and heat are almost always present. The increased vascularity of the tissue is often evidenced by the enlargement of the veins on the surface, large dilated vessels running over the swollen part. Constitutional symptoms are not present as a rule. If they are, it is either because some vital organ is affected, or else they are due to the disease which is setting up the inflammation. TREATMENT.—In considering the treatment of chronic inflammation, the first point is to ascertain whether or not we can remove the cause, for if this be effectually done, the inflammation will at once subside. Thus, in cases where a foreign body, such as a bullet, is embedded in the tissues, the indication is to cut down on and remove it. Similarly, where the chronic inflammation is caused by obstruction of a duct, this must be remedied ; where it is due to a deposit from the blood, as in gout, or to some state of the blood, as in rheumatism, appropriate medicinal treatment must be adopted for the elimination of the noxious material from the circulation. Most commonly, however, as has already been said, the cause of the inflammation is the presence of some chronic infective disease, and it is not always easy to get rid of this completely, more especially where it is of a tuberculous nature. Where it is not possible or advisable to remove the cause, the treatment consists in taking various measures which are calculated to diminish the inflammation, and these measures are essen- tially local. Local Treatment.—Eest.—The first essential point in the local treat- ment, after the question of removal of the primary cause, is to secure complete physiological rest of the part, and this is absolutely necessary