117 AFTER-TREATMENT. care should be taken not to jolt him, and especially not to elevate the head and chest; in going upstairs, therefore, he should be carried on a stretcher, feet first, with his head down. The room should be of a tem- perature of about 65°-7o° R, and the bed carefully screened from draughts. If ether has been employed, and perhaps in all cases, it is better, if the surgeon will permit, that the patient be turned upon the right side; this facilitates the escape of mucus, and I think lessens the sickness. The nurse should be warned that if sickness occur the patient is not to sit up, but to be turned on his side, and, if need be, the jaw must be pushed forward to facilitate the escape of the vomited matter. The ansesthetist should assure himself that his patient is on the high road to recovery before he leaves the patient's side, but on the other hand, natural sleep is to be encouraged; if, when taken at intervals of two or three minutes, the pulse and respiration are found to be good and improving, it may fairly be assumed that, as far as the anaesthetic is concerned, the patient is safe. In any event, whether the case is a severe one or not, the patient should always have a responsible attendant at his bedside for an hour or two after the operation has been completed. Sickness.—As soon as he is sufficiently conscious to be able to do so, the patient should be encouraged to frequently rinse out his mouth and throat with warm water. If it occurs early, in the semi-unconscious condition, retching and vomiting are less distressing to the patient than at first sight appears; when he becomes fully conscious he seldom retains any recollection of his previous misery. Nevertheless, attempts should be made to ameliorate his condition. Sips of water as hot as can be borne, or even full draughts of half a tumblerful, are often successful; strong, hot, black coffee is good in some cases; 15 to 20 grains of bicarbonate of soda in a tumblerful of hot water is good in others ; ice to suck is the routine treatment, and is very comforting to the patient; strychnine in 5 m. doses of the liquor by the mouth or hypodermically, has been recommended, and in the more troublesome cases morphine may be called for, but in the majority of instances time alone is all that can be depended upon. In cases involving severe "surgrical shock," additional care is called for. In such cases, the amount of the anaesthetic used in the latter stages may, with advantage, be very much diminished, and strychnine hypoder- mically may be given freely (see p. 84). It is in these cases, too, that the hypodermic injection of brandy or ether may be of some possible value, but a nutrient enema of hot fluids is probably better (see p. 83). Such patients should not be put back to bed too soon, but be kept on the operating table, which should be raised some four or five inches from the ground at one end so as to raise the patient's legs. Hot water bottles should be placed all round the body and extremities, taking particular care whenever hot bottles are used, that they are thickly covered in flannel; patients, when antesthetized, are very apt to be blistered unless the bottles are covered.