VARIETIES OF ULCERS. 39 chemical. The chemical causes are decomposing secretions or improperly selected lotions. (5) Local conditions, such as the seat of the sore, its size, its form, its relation to surrounding parts; the tension of the neigh- bouring skin; fixation of the sore to the parts beneath, to the fascia or bone; marked difference of level between the margins of the sore and its surface, etc. (6) Local disturbances, such as acute inflammation, phage- denic infection, etc., or general conditions, such as diabetes, scurvy, or other similar affections. VARIETIES.—Various forms of ulcers are described, of which the following may shortly be mentioned: (i) Simple Ulcer.—This may be described as a granulating wound which is not healing. These sores are kept from healing by various local causes such as pressure or friction from the dressings, muscular movements, scratching, interference with the vascular supply, chemical agencies and so forth. In the early stage, the simple ulcer forms flat sores covered with granulations of a yellow or brownish- red colour, on a level with the surrounding skin or only slightly depressed beneath it. The margins are sharply cut, the surrounding parts are slightly oedematous. These ulcers extend fairly rapidly where no proper care is taken. In certain cases, these and other ulcers may become the seat of acute inflammation, and then we have the second form, namely, the inflamed ulcer. (2) Inflamed Ulcer.—This is an ulcer which has become the seat of acute inflammation, as the result of some mechanical or chemical irritation, of bad methods of treatment, or, most usually, of septic infection. In these cases the surface of the ulcer becomes intensely red and angry-looking, it bleeds readily, secretes a large quantity of pus, extends with great rapidity and is not infrequently covered with small shreds of actually gangrenous tissue; the skin around is bright red and oedematous, the borders are irregular and eaten away, and it is not uncommon for fresh ulcers to develop rapidly around the margin of the original sore. These fresh ulcers are at first separated from one another, and from the original sore, by bridges of skin, which are sometimes quite narrow, intensely inflamed, swollen, and very apt to slough. (3) Irritable Ulcer.—This form of ulcer is sometimes met with in neurotic women as a small sore with a somewhat elevated surface, and intensely tender to the slightest touch. It commonly occurs about the external malleolus, and is usually associated with menstrual disorders. (4) Weak Ulcer.—A simple ulcer is very apt to become a weak one as the result of defective blood supply, either from too small a quantity of blood reaching the part, or from deficient quality of the blood, as for example where ulcerations occur during the progress of some constitutional disease. There are various kinds of weak ulcers, depending upon the cause producing them. In one form, the granulations become smooth and some- what yellowish, the secretions thin, small in amount and very apt to form a scab, and the edges pale and flat. In a second form, the granulations