GANGRENE. 68 the patient should be made to He on the side, when the sore will usually begin to heal, unless the general condition be extremely weak. At the same time, the general nutrition of the patient should be attended to by the administration of light and easily digested food and stimulants (see p. 64). (3) Another cause of direct gangrene is acute inflammation. Where inflammation occurs in dense tissues, and especially where it ends in sup- puration, the stasis and the pressure of the exudation on the blood-vessels may lead to death of the tissues from insufficient blood supply. The best examples of this are acute necrosis following acute suppurative periostitis and osteomyelitis, and the sloughs which occur in the skin in boils and carbuncles. These cases will be dealt with under their respective headings; we need only say here that early free incisions are called for. (4) Lastly, we have direct gangrene resulting from the action of heat or cold, but the treatment of burns and scalds and frostbite will be better dealt with after discussing the treatment of wounds (see Chap. IX.), and we may therefore defer their consideration for the present. B. Indirect Gangrene. — By indirect gangrene is meant death of tissues where the causal agent does not act directly on the part which dies. There are four groups of indirect gangrene: (i) gangrene due to gradual diminution in the calibre of the blood-vessels; (2) gangrene due to the sudden obstruction of the blood-vessels; (3) gangrene due to imperfect innervation; and (4) gangrene due to general causes such as diabetes, acute fevers, the use of ergot, etc. (I) Gangrene due to the gradual diminution in the calibre of the blood-vessels. Dry or senile gangrene is the typical example of this form. The changes leading to senile gangrene affect the arteries, and are in part gradual diminution in the calibre of the blood-vessels, and in part rigidity of their walls so that they do not dilate and contract in conformity with the needs of the tissues. Anything which leads to endar- teritis will favour the production of this form; for example, alcoholism is a very potent cause of endarteritis, as are also diabetes and syphilis, and these are among the chief causes of senile gangrene. Another very common cause is atheroma, which is a chronic inflammation of the deeper part of the internal coat of the artery, leading to irregular thickening and rigidity, diminution in its calibre, and even in some cases going on to calcification of the middle coat. In atheroma and endarteritis a further cause of gan- grene is the great tendency to the occurrence of thrombosis in the affected vessels, thus leading to complete blocking of their lumen. It is evident that certain symptoms, due to imperfect blood supply, will in most cases precede the occurrence of the gangrene. Thus, one of the chief complaints of the patient, even long before the gangrene occurs, is great coldness and perverted sensation in the feet. He suffers much from tingling, he does not feel the ground properly when he walks, he feels, in fact, as if there were something soft between his feet and