MEANS OF CONTROLLING HEMORRHAGE. tically aseptic. When kept in the dry state, however, it soon becoiines covered with dust, and, unless properly disinfected before use, may give rise to sepsis. It should, therefore, never be used dry, or straight from the surgical instrument makers, but should be allowed to soak for about a week in a 1-20 watery solution of carbolic acid, and it will then be found quite satisfactory, and suppuration in connection with the ligatures will not occur. The catgut usually sold in bottles filled with carbolized oil should be avoided : it is unreliable for several reasons. Of course, catgut should never be disinfected by boiling, as the material swells up and becomes useless for purposes of ligature. The chromicized catgut should be used fine, except in the case of a large vessel such as the femoral or axillary artery, and the ends of the ligature should be cut quite short. Among the non-absorbable materials fine silk is a good deal used for ligatures, and there is no real objection to it if it be quite aseptic. It is usually rendered aseptic by boiling, and is then afterwards kept in a r-20 solution of carbolic acid. Before using, it is well to wash out the carbolic solution with one of sublimate (1-2000). These ligatures, like the catgut ones, should have their ends cut short. There is, however, no special advantage in silk, and it is a disadvantage to fill the wound with a large number of ligatures of a material which is not readily absorbed. When an aseptic ligature is tied round a vessel, in the course of a few hours it becomes buried in lymph, and this lymph subsequently becomes penetrated with cells which organize into fibrous tissue, and which at the same time eat away the outer surface of the ligature, so that by and by these cells penetrate in between its strands. In this way the ligature is ultimately replaced by young fibrous tissue. In the case of silk a very much longer time is occupied by this process than in the case of catgut, and it may be months, or even a year or two, before the silk has dis- appeared, and sometimes small abscesses form and the silk is discharged. Cautery.—In the case of vessels situated in parts where ligatures can- not be applied, the bleeding may sometimes be arrested by means of the cautery, the most convenient form being that known as Paquelin's cautery. It must not be used white hot, as in that case it will cut through the vessel, and bleeding will simply persist; it should be allowed to cool until it is hardly red, and if a hot point like this be held in contact with the vessel, it sears the tissues so that they stick together, and clotting occurs inside the artery. Torsion.—Another way in which arterial bleeding may be arrested is by torsion. The object of torsion is to twist the end of the artery so that the middle and internal coats are ruptured and curl up, while the twisted external coat forms an obstacle to the escape of blood. In order to do this, the artery must be fixed above the point where rupture of the coats is required, as otherwise, in the case of a large artery at any rate, the only effect would be to twist the artery round and round in its sheath for a