ADMINISTRATION OK MIXTURES. 103 cannot be rectified by slight changes in the position of the head, pushing forward the base of the tongue, by pressure upon the angles of the inferior maxilla or lifting the chin upwards, must not be allowed. There is practi- cally no increase in the flow of mucus, etc. The essential characteristic of chloroform anaesthesia is the depression. Thus, paralysis of the respiratory centre is probably the most usual cause of death in fatal cases, though cardiac failure is not unknown. This tendency to respiratory failure sets in very early, and makes it more than usually imperative that the respiration should be most carefully watched, at the same time as', but even more vigilantly than the circulation. It is probable that respiratory failure is usually associated with cardiac failure, though not always pari passu. As Lord Lister has pointed out,^ the breathing may become obstructed by the falling together of the relaxed soft tissues about the air passages, and this condition has an important bearing upon the treatment, as will subsequently be explained (see p. 110). On an average, between six and eight minutes is a fair time to allow for inducing anfesthesia with chloroform by the above method. It is said by some, that the quantity of chloroform used should be at about the rate of 3i. for every ten minutes of ansesthesia, but such estimates are un- reliable, as it is obvious that the amount must vary enormously in accord- ance with such opposite conditions as the age of the patient, his state of health, the heat of the weather, the thickness of the towel, etc., etc. The special after-effects of chloroform differ in degree rather than in kind from those observed as a consequence of the use of ether. The vomiting may not be so severe, but it often does not set in until con- sciousness is more or less completely restored, and therefore the feeling of wretchedness is prolonged. Bronchitis and other lung affections are rare sequelce to chloroform inhalation, nor is delirium at all frequent. For a more detailed account of after-treatment see p. 116. Administration of Mixtures (A.C.E., etc.) From the point of view of anaesthetic strength, the mixtures occupy a position intermediate between ether and chloroform. Of such mixtures there may, of course, be an infinite variety, according to the relative pro- portion of the constituents, but to certain stock mixtures definite names have been attached; thus, a combination of one part of chloroform to three of ether is known as the "Vienna mixture," while "Billroth's mixture" con- sists of three parts of chloroform, one of ether, and one of absolute alcohol. In this country, however, " the A.C.E. mixture," or, as it is often called, " the mixture," is the term by which is usually indicated a fluid composed of absolute alcohol spec. grav. 795 one part, chloroform spec. grav. i"497 two parts, ether spec. grav. 720 three parts ; it is usually looked upon as merely a mechanical mixture of its constituents. ^Holmes' System of Surgery, vol. III.