WOUNDS. 196 organs, (6) inflammation of these organs, (7) intestinal ulceration, (8) various septic diseases, particularly erysipelas, septicaemia, and pyaemia, and (9) exhaustion. In burns in particular situations of course there are special dangers; for example, in scalds of the throat there is the special danger of oedema glottidis and death by suffocation. Treatment.—The treatment may be described under four heads, namely, the treatment of the first degree, that of the second, that of the third and fourth degrees, and lastly, that of the last two degrees. It is also important to describe both local and general treatment. (a) General Treatment.—The general treatment will depend largely upon the extent and result of the burn. When a patient comes under observation, suffering from severe shocks the various measures appropriate for the treatment of that condition (see p. 141) must be employed. During the early stage also, apart from shock, it may be necessary to counteract carbonic oxide poisonings which is indicated mainly by the presence of dyspnoea, while the mucous membranes are of a cherry-red colour and the pulse is slow. A drop of blood from a needle-puncture shows marked deviation in colour from normal blood; it is of the same bright cherry-red as the mucous membranes. This condition is due to the carbonic oxide entering into combination with the haemoglobin, and preventing the corpuscles from fulfilling their functions as carriers of oxygen. Carbonic oxide poisoning must be treated by free stimulation, combined with efforts to promote the oxygenation of the blood. In all cases the principal benefit will be obtained from the inhalation of oxygen, and this should be the first thing thought of. Until it can be obtained, artificial respiration by Sylvester's method must be carried out if the breathing shows any tendency to flag. In most towns, cylinders of oxygen can be obtained, and, if one be at hand, one end of an india-rubber tube should be attached to the cylinder, and the other to a mouthpiece such as that of an ordinary Clover's inhaler, or, failing that, a piece of brown paper folded into a cone; a stream of oxygen is then turned on, so that it pours over the patient's nose and mouth in large quantities. In these cases, the oxygen inhalation to do any good must be continuous, the mouth-piece being removed perhaps every ten minutes or a quarter of an hour for a minute or two, and it must be gone on with for certainly from 12 to 24 hours, until, in fact, a sufficient number of new blood-corpuscles have been formed to act as carriers of oxygen. Where a cylinder of oxygen is not available, and time permits, the gas can, of course, be prepared in the usual manner by heating chlorate of potash (in quantities of half an ounce at a time) in a Florence flask over a Bunsen flame, and conducting the oxygen thus obtained through a suitable tube furnished with a funnel or face-piece for inhalation. Transfusion of blood has been suggested, but it seems that the blood-corpuscles thus introduced do not retain their vitality for any length of time, and act only very temporarily, if at all, as carriers of oxygen to the tissues. As a stimulant the subcutaneous administration