252 TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR TYPE. A simple tumour is generally surrounded by a capsule and does not infiltrate the tissues around, nor does it recur after being thoroughly removed. It is freely moveable and readily separable from the surrounding parts, unless accidental attacks of inflammation have occurred about it; in structure it resembles more or less closely some of the normal tissues of the body. Malignant Tumours.—A malignant tumour, for example, an epi- thelioma, on the other hand usually grows rapidly and after a time produces severe constitutional effects known as cachexia, the patient wasting, becoming pale and sallow, and evidently suffering from chronic poisoning. The growth is often painful of itself apart from its situation, and its tendency is to undergo softening, and, when near the skin, to destroy it and lead to ulceration and fungation. It is not encapsuled, any apparent capsule being really a false one and constituting part of the tumour itself. As a rule it grows by infiltrating and destroying the sur- rounding parts and replacing them by tumour substance, and also by producing secondary tumours elsewhere. Malignant tumours are often soft in consistence and not freely moveable on account of their infiltrating nature. They frequently recur after removal. In structure they differ more or less completely from normal tissues. HISTOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATION—Histologically tumours are divided into those composed of cellular elements and those in which the structure is more complex : the former are ag^in subdivided according to the type of cell that forms their chief constituent. On the one hand they are divided into tumours composed of epithelial tissues, and on the other into tumours of the connective tissue type. The tumours belonging to this latter class are not composed of cells alone, but they contain in addition blood-vessels, connective tissue and lymphatic vessels. So far as we know however they are not provided with true nervous elements. TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR TYPE. EPITHELIAL TUMOURS. We shall in the first place refer very briefly to tumours in which the type of cell is essentially epithelial. They are due primarily to the growth of epithelium which may be regular or irregular and, if on a free surface, may remain heaped up in masses or may penetrate into and infiltrate the tissues beneath. The irregular infiltrating form of growth leads to the formation of malignant tumours, such as carcinomata; the regular non- infiltrating form gives rise to benign growths. BENIGN VARIETIES.—Of this class we have two forms, namely, those where the epithelium is growing on a free surface,—the papillomata,— and those where the growth is in the substance of the tissues,—the adenomata. The papillomata do not strictly belong to the tumour group