GANGRENE. 76 Diabetes leads to gangrene, in the first place, because it gives rise to endarteritis, and consequent diminution in the calibre of the vessels; and in the second place, because the tissues of the diabetic are weaker and less able to resist injury than healthy ones; they are especially sensitive to the pyogenic organisms which appear to grow in them with special rapidity and virulence. Some authorities also hold that the innervation of the tissues is interfered with as the result of central nervous disturbance, and that they are thus predisposed to gangrene. Treatment.—Bearing in mind the great tendency to gangrene, diabetics must be specially warned to avoid any injury, however trivial, lest acute inflammation, which will probably become gangrenous, should result; more especially they should avoid slight injuries to the feet, the wearing of tight boots, etc. Strict asepsis should be employed in the case of any wound from which they may suffer, and when gangrene has set in the usual treatment should be adopted, namely, the disinfection of the limb and the application of an antiseptic dressing. (i) General.—The general condition should be specially attended to and the patient placed on anti-diabetic diet, that is to say, he should avoid substances that tend to the production of sugar, such as sugar itself, all starchy foods, potatoes, etc. The stringency of the diet must depend on the amount of sugar in the urine and the condition of the patient; if he be very weak it is inadvisable to put him suddenly on too strict a diet. The following dietary, for which we are indebted to Dr. Burney Yeo,i will give full details as to the diet of a diabetic patient. SEEGEN'S DIETARY. Sanctioned. In any quantity—Flesh of all kinds; preserved (smoked) meats, ham, tongue, bacon; fish of all kinds; oysters and shell-fish; crabs, lobsters; animal jellies; aspic; eggs, caviare, cream, butter, cheese; spinach, cooked salads, endive, cucumber, green asparagus, watercress, sorrel, artichokes, mushrooms; nuts. In small quantity—Cauliflower, carrots, turnip, white cabbage, green beans; berries, such as strawberries, raspberries, currants; also oranges and almonds. BEVERAGES. In any quantity—Water, soda-water; tea, coffee; Bordeaux, Rhine, and Moselle wines; Austrian and Hungarian table wines. In short, all wines that are not sweet, and that contain only a moderate amount of alcohol. In very small quantities—Milk, unsweetened; almond emulsion ; brandy, bitter beer; lemonade, unsweetened. ^ A Maimal of Medical Treatnmtt or Clinical Therapeutics, Vol. II., p. 554- Cassell & Co., London, 1893.