CONTUSIONS AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. portant injury to the deeper parts {e.g. division of nerves) repaired. Winen this has been done the incision which the surgeon has made, in order to gain proper access to the wound, should be stitched up, and a small drainage tube inserted at the seat of puncture. As a matter of fact, the puncture would seldom heal by first intention if the edges were brought together throughout, and besides this, one can never be certain that all the septic material in the interior has been destroyed, and, therefore, it is well to leave an opening in case sepsis should occur. CONTUSIONS AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. Characters.—By a contusion is understood a severe bruising of the tissues unaccompanied by rupture of the skin. The parts which are sub- jected to the bruising are more or less torn and haemorrhage occurs into them, so that if a contused area be opened up it is found to be partly torn and partly infiltrated with blood clot. When the skin is torn at the same time a contused wound is produced, and this is characterized by irregularity of the rent in the skin and ragged- ness of the edges, which are much bruised and infiltrated with blood, the deeper parts of the wound and the parts around are also bruised and bloody. Causes.—Contused wounds are caused by crushes, run-over accidents, bites, gunshot injuries, and the like. As a rule there is not much bleeding, the vessels being torn and blocked; there is often great pain, and the healing of the wound is always slow. Should it become septic, there will be suppuration and sloughing of portions of the contused tissues; if it remain aseptic, healing of the deeper parts takes place by blood clot, and this is naturally a prolonged process. Treatment.—In the case of a simple contusion, the first object is to prevent any increase in the haemorrhage that has already taken place. If the contusion be large, an icebag, or, if small, an evaporating lotion (see p. 8) should be applied for the first 8 or lo hours; the limb or the affected part should be kept at rest, upon a splint if necessary, in the elevated position. As soon as it is evident that no fresh effusion is going on, the indication is to promote the absorption of that already poured out, and for this purpose the starch and cotton-wool bandage is most efficacious (see p. 2i). After a few days, when the bulk of the poured-out blood has been absorbed, the disappearance of the remainder is greatly facilitated by careful massage (see p. 22). When the damage to the muscle is severe, other measures may be required, but this will be dealt with again later on in connection with injuries of muscles. The treatment of a contused wound is directed primarily towards securing perfect asepsis; the tissues are so much damaged by the injury and so much blood is extravasated into them that they are very liable to become the seat of severe septic inflammation, even though the organisms that