TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. ' 179 AB, is then dissected up along with the subcutaneous tissue. When dissected up in this way, the elasticity of the skin allows the flap to be stretched with comparatively slight tension, so that the point B may be stitched to the point A, and the point D to the point C. Where the quadrilateral defect is larger, it can be closed by making similar incisions on the opposite side also, that is to say, in Fig. 57, by extending the side AB both to b and to a, and similarly CD to both d and c. Two flaps, ACca and BDdb, zx& thus marked out, one on each side, and when they are dissected up they can generally be made to meet in the middle of the defect and can be stitched together. Where the defect is triangular, say an equilateral triangle, and the raw area is small, it may suffice to make an incision which, in Fig. 58, extends A B (> V c Fig. 58. Fig. 58.—Plastic Operations. How to fill up a triafigular defect of vtoderate size. By carrying an incision from 5 to i, a flap C B b can be raised, so as to allow the side to be pulled towards and stitched to the side CA. The incision Bb should be nearly double the length of A B. Fig. 59.—Plastic Operations. Now to fill up a triangular gap of large size. The dotted lines show the incisions made to allow two flaps to be raised. When this is done, A C and B C are approximated and stitched together. the side AB to one side only, the extension being about double the length of the side AB. The triangular flap thus marked out is dissected up along with the fat, when the point B can generally be stitched to the point A, If, however, the defect be large, the sides may be made to meet by forming a second similar flap on the other side, that is to say, in Fig. 59, by extending the line AB on the one side in the direction of ^, and on the other side in the direction of B. These two flaps will then meet in the middle line apd can be sewn together. In many cases, however, especially where the triangular space is large, the incisions for the flaps should be curved., and, in the case of irregular A a c Fig. 60.—Plastic Operations. To fill in a triangular defect by means of curved incisions. By carrying a curved incision from B outwards to b, and one from A to a, the flaps thus formed can, after they have been dissected up, be made to slide inwards so as to approximate ^ C and C^with much greater ease than if straight incisions had been used. defects, the great secret of successful plastic operations is to use curved incisions. Much better results will be obtained by the use of curved incisions than by straight ones. When it is necessary to remove the lower lip, this is usually done by taking out a V-shaped piece, the apex of the V being