46 ULCERATION. Avoidance of Irritation.—Another point which is common to the treatment of all ulcers is to get rid of any cause of irritation to the surface of the sore. These causes of irritation are either mechanical, such as that caused by dressings applied directly to the surface of the sore, or chemical, such as unsuitable lotions or decomposing discharges: of these the chemical causes are more frequently met with. In order to avoid mechanical irrita- tion, the dressing, whether it be gauze or boracic lint, should not be applied directly to the surface of the sore, either oiled silk protective or an antiseptic ointment of some kind being interposed. A most important point in the treatment of ulcers is the avoidance of the chemically disturbing causes: these may be either lotions or decom- posing discharges. The lotions used must be non-irritating. They should of course be antiseptic, but the more irritating antiseptics should not be selected. It is too much the practice at the present time to dress ulcers with carbolic lotion, and no more unsuitable application for a healing ulcer could well be employed. The best lotions will be described im- mediately; in the meantime it must be pointed out that it is most essential to get rid of the chemical irritation from decomposing discharges. The presence of decomposing discharge on the surface of an ulcer interferes very materially with the healing process, and it is therefore one of the most important points at the commencement of the treatment to remedy, as far as possible, the septic condition of the sore. Disinfection of the Ulcer.—In order to do this, the following is the method of procedure that we recommend. In the first place the skin, for a considerable area around the ulcer, should be thoroughly disinfected. To disinfect the surface of the ulcer alone and leave the skin septic would simply mean that in the course of a few days the surface would again become foul. Therefore the skin should be thoroughly washed with soap and water and all the hairs shaved off: turpentine is then applied to dissolve the fat, and this is subsequently removed by soap and lotion. The best lotion is a 1-20 watery solution of carbolic acid, containing in solution one five-hundredth part of corrosive sublimate; this we shall speak of hereafter as "strong mixture." The part is thoroughly washed with soap and this mixture, and then well scrubbed with a nail brush dipped in the mixture, and after this is done the strong mixture may be removed from the skin by washing it with a 1-2000 watery solution of corrosive sublimate. As regards the surface of the ulcer, it is not always an easy matter to completely disinfect it at one sitting, but what seems to be the best plan is to swab it thoroughly over with undiluted carbolic acid. A small piece of sponge is dipped in liquefied carbolic acid, thoroughly rubbed over the whole surface of the granulations and sides of the ulcer and allowed to act for some minutes. This no doubt destroys the granulations; but these are usually unhealthy, and of no use for the healing process. Apart from this, healing will not occur until the surrounding parts have also