ADMINISTRATION OF MIXTURES. numerous, and the facepiece ought not to fit over the nose and mouth with any great accuracy, and for this reason a padded facepiece is objection- able. In the actual administration two points are to be particularly attended to, viz. : Use small quantities of the mixture frequently repeated, rather than one or two large doses. By this means, the stimulating effects of the ether are more nearly continuous than when a large quantity of the liquid is used at a time. Secondly, in this, as in all other methods of inducing general anaesthesia, it is important to commence the inhalation very gradually, hold- ing the facepiece a few inches from the face to begin with, and gradually bringing it nearer as the vapour is better tolerated. The chief objections which have been urged against the use of the mixture are as follows, viz. : In the first place, it is sometimes said that an over-strong vapour, consisting chiefly of chloroform, is apt to accumulate in the mask below the sponge. The possibility of this occurring cannot be doubted, and the remedy is equally obvious. The mask must not fit the face at all closely, and must be supplied with plenty of large air-holes, and the anaesthetic must be added in small quantities (5i. to 5ii.) at a time. Under this head, too, must be included the objection, that the different constituents of the mixture evaporate at different temperatures. This, of course, is true, but experience has shown that the consequent slight variations in the composition of the vapour do not militate against the practical efficacy of the mixture. In the second place, it is objected that the sponge, flannel bag, etc., are liable to become over-saturated, especially in long cases, and the superfluous liquid is then apt to trickle on to the face and excoriate the skin. Here, again, by a little judicious management, the trouble can frequently be avoided. Add the mixture in small quantities at a time, as required, allowing a few seconds for it to soak well into the sponge; do not use old, hard sponges, but large soft ones, taking care that they are well washed after each administration ; in long cases, too, the sponge should be changed from time to time. If the flannel bag be objected to it may be removed, and the sponge held in place by means of a wire passed transversely through two opposite air-holes. Perhaps a better and more cleanly form of inhaler is the metal mask figured on p. io6 (Fig. 29). This apparatus is made of metal, and can be purified in lotions or by heat. The sponge is retained in position by means of a wire guard Fig. 30 {B) and a shield set at an angle {A) prevents the liquid from running on to the face. The hinged, perforated, concave top {D) is convenient for charging Fig. 28.—Celluloid Mask for A.C.E. Fitted with a bag of thin flannel or domette in which is pLiced a full-sized, open-meshed sponge. The air holes at the end should be numerous and large. The flannel bag and sponge should be changed after each case, and the whole washed in cold water. In practice, the flannel bag shouUl be much longer than is here represented, and should go well to the bottom of the inhaler.