CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 21 that relieves the pain and improves the condition so much as a free incision, which should of course be made aseptically. The effect of this is much increased if a portion of the thickened periosteum is also taken away. Similarly, in chronic osteitis the best method of treatment is to gouge away a large portion of the inflamed bone, even although the whole of the area affected be not removed. The rest very soon improves, and the patient is much relieved, and often cured. From the point of view of diagnosis, also, it is of much importance to bear in mind the great value of free incisions as a curative agent in cases of chronic inflamma- tion, because in many cases it is difficult to be certain whether one has to deal with a chronic inflammation or a tumour. Knowing, however, that free incision into a chronically inflamed part is one of the best means of treating the inflammation, one need not hesitate to ascertain at once the state of matters by making a free incision into the part. If it turns out that we have a tumour to deal with, the diagnosis is made, and the surgeon can then proceed to treat the case as is required. If, on the other hand, the case proves to be one of chronic inflammation, the very best thing has been done to cure the patient. Pressure is also a good deal employed in cases of chronic inflamma- tion, but it is mainly of value when the process is subsiding. If much pressure be applied to a part in which active inflammation is going on, it is very apt to increase the latter instead of diminishing it. But where the inflammation is subsiding, pressure is one of the very best means to employ. For example, in cases of thickening of the epididymis after acute epididymitis, strapping the testicle is the favourite and best method of treatment. Pressure is also a good deal used in cases of chronic inflam- mation of joints, whether dependent on tuberculosis or not, and it may be carried out in various ways, the essential point being that the pressure should be equable and not too great. Perhaps the best way to obtain firm, equable pressure is to surround the part with a large mass of cotton wool or silk waste in even sheets or layers, without any lumps or irregu- larities, and then to apply a bandage over it as tightly as possible. To prevent the bandage becoming loose afterwards, some starch or silicate of soda solution should be rubbed into it. This method will be referred to more particularly when we come to speak of joint diseases. In some cases an elastic bandage is applied outside the wool, but if this be done it must not be put on too tightly, for the elasticity multiplies the force considerably. Another way in which pressure is applied, especially in joint diseases, is by means of Scoit's dressing, in which we have a com- bination of pressure and counter-irritation. Scott's dressing consists of the compound mercury ointment {unguentitm hydrargyri co) spread upon chamois leather. The chamois leather is cut into strips and applied, like other forms of strapping, in imbricated layers around the diseased part, the application being made quite firmly. Outside this a layer of cotton wool and a firm bandage are applied, and the limb placed on a splint. Another method