TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. 159 this is continued till the whole wound is stitched up; the end may be secured either by leaving the last loop long and tying a knot between it and the free end of the thread, or by taking several turns of the thread around the needle as it forms the last loop and then tightening it up (see Fig. 50). The result is that along one side of the wound there is a continuous thread of silk, which acts very like the old quilled suture. This stitch is better than the herring-gut stitch, which was at one time frequently employed in uniting intestine, and which tends, if drawn at all tight, to pucker up the edges, and may even cause gangrene of portions of them. If the dressings have been allowed to dry, the threads will, after a few days, be found stuck together with blood, and if any one of the stitches be too tight, it can be divided or removed without the rest of the stitch necessarily giving way. The best material for the continuous suture is silk, of the variety known as Chinese twist, varying in thickness according to the amount of tension to which it is exposed. Where there is no tension, quite a fine silk is sufficient; but where there is much, it is better to use silk of medium thickness, as the fine thread cuts out very quickly under these circumstances. Summary of methods of Suturing Wounds.—What has been said with regard to stitches may be summed up as follows. Where there is no tension on the edges of the wound, and a very small fine scar is required, either buried sutures may be used, with no sutures in the skin at all, or the finest horse-hair may be employed. Where very great tension is present, button sutures should be used, after undermining the flaps, and in addition to them, deep relaxation stitches of silver wire should also be inserted, these being sufficiently numerous to support the edges of the flap, which should be coapted by a fine continuous button-hole stitch. Where there is only a moderate amount of tension, interrupted silkworm gut stitches, reinforced by a fine continuous coaptation suture of silk, may be made use of; and lastly, where there is little or no tension, and where stitch marks are unimportant, the edges may be approximated by means of thick or fine silk. Removal of Sutures.—It has already been said (see p. 157) that button sutures should be removed in about five or six days. Where there are also silver relaxation stitches, and the wound is dressed for the purpose of removing the buttons, the continuous silk suture can as a rule be taken out at the same time, only the deep silver stitches being left. The removal of these latter must depend on the firmness of union between the edges, but generally they can all be taken out at the end of a week or ten days. If there be any point where the strength of the union is doubtful, as for instance where a triangular flap of skin has been dragged up to meet two other flaps, the stitches at the apex of the flap should generally be left for about a fortnight. With the exception of cases where button sutures have been used, there is no necessity to dress the wound for the purpose of removing any stitch before firm union has occurred, and