WOUNDS. 2IO but the exact pathology is not very clear. It is sufficient for our purpose to point out that the affection is essentially one of poisoning by chemical products. The organisms themselves are not met with free in the blood in any large numbers, and they probably establish themselves either in the wound or in some of the internal organs, whence they pour septic products into the blood. Although the condition resembles that of septic intoxica- tion in being due to chemical poisoning, it differs from it both by being exclusively caused by parasitic organisms, and by the fact that these latter have gained a footing either in the living tissues of the wound or in the internal organs. Acute septicaemia follows upon the condition of traumatic fever just described when the latter does not end favourably. Symptoms.—The symptoms usually begin before the traumatic fever has subsided. The temperature, which has begun to fall, rises again to 103° or 104° F. and remains high, but with slight morning remissions of about a degree. Rigors are rare, but the patient feels ill and presents at first all the signs of sthenic inflammatory fever; in bad cases he soon passes into the typhoid state. Vomiting is not uncommon, and sometimes diarrhoea is present, though more commonly there is constipation. The urine fre- quently contains albumen, the wound is usually swollen and painful, and frequently the discharge from it is diminished in quantity or even com- pletely arrested. Treatment.—The treatment of acute septicaemia can only be directed to the symptoms, except perhaps in cases where an examination of the discharges from the wound shows that the condition is dependent on the presence of the streptococcus pyogenes, when the antistreptococcic serum should be injected in the manner indicated.on page 183. Usually how- ever, there is nothing to be done but to employ constitutional treatment, in the hope that the tissues may conquer in the fight against the organisms. It is especially necessary to support the patient's strength and hence a generous diet should be given, and as soon as the pulse begins to fail free stimulation will be necessary. If the temperature remains over 103° F., tepid sponging or some of the other antipyretic measures described on p. 215 must be adopted. In addition, large doses of quinine (five grains every three or four hours) should be administered until the patient shows signs of quinism, when the drug should be discontinued, or Warburg's tincture in drachm doses substituted. The bowels and the kidneys should also be kept acting (see p. 209). The disease is very fatal indeed ; only a small number of those attacked recover. The wound should always be opened up and drained freely, but there is no chance at this stage of really disinfecting it or of preventing the entrance of organisms into the body. A question which sometimes arises where the wound is in one of the extremities is that of amputation, and in a considerable number of cases this has been done. Unfortunately, however, amputation has very little effect on the progress of the disease, for in most cases the organisms seem to be established in the internal