MEANS OF CONTROLLING HyEMORRHAGE. 133 a very small number of the vessels bleed and require ligature. Thus, by the use of these forceps, a great deal of time is saved in the course of a long operation. In the case of a breast amputation, probably not more than six or eight vessels will require ligature, whereas if all the bleeding points were ligatured, as was formerly done, the number of A B c Fig. 42.—Pressure Forceps for Arrest of H.«;morrhagk. The above are the varieties in common use. A, Spencer I'l^eZ/s' ; upon which most forceps for this purpose are modelled. B, Lmvson 'I'ait's \ very similar to Spencer Wells', but so tapered at the points as to facilitate the application of a ligature. C, Greig Smith's ; these forceps are designed to crush the walls of a vessel firmly together, and at the same time to cut through their inner and middle coats. The full-size illustration of the blade shows how this is done. ligatures might amount to thirty or forty, or even more. The action of the forceps is to compress the end of the artery, and if they are kept on for a little time, when they are removed lymph is already effused, and sticks the compressed ends together, and a blood clot has formed in the interior. Horsley's wax.—In the case of bleeding from bone, etc., Horsley has introduced an aseptic wax which can be applied over the bleeding point, so as to close the hole in the bone from which the blood comes. The com- position of this wax is beeswax 7 parts, almond oil i part, and salicylic acid I part. When not in use, the wax is kept in a vessel of 1-20 car- bolic solution. When it is required for use, a small piece is pinched off, softened by rolling between the fingers, which, of course, should be aseptic, and then pressed well into the part of the bone from which the blood is coming. The wax does not give rise to any trouble in the healing of the wound. Cold.—There are various other ways in which bleeding may be arrested, and which are specially applicable to oozing from small vessels or capil- laries which cannot be controlled by the means already mentioned. The