WOUNDS. i8o towards the chin. To fill the gap a large curved incision should be made, beginning at the angle of the mouth, running down over the jaw on to the neck, and curving inwards towards the upper part of the larynx; where the whole lip is removed a similar curved incision is made on each side. The incision goes through the whole thickness of the cheek; when it passes on to the neck, the skin and superficial fascia alone are dissected up. When the flaps have been raised sufficiently, the curved incisions allow them to slide inwards, so that the two sides of the triangular defect meet in a vertical line, and may be stitched together; a few points of suture are then put in along the curved lines of incision (see Fig. 60). We need not here go into detail as to the covering in of irregular defects, or of those in special situations. They will be treated of later on as occa- sion arises. The great principle to which we wish to call attention is that, where the surgeon has to do with large defects of skin, curved incisions will enable him to close the defect with much greater ease and less extensive dissection than if straight incisions alone were employed. Use of Granulating Flaps.—Where there are very large defects, and where the flaps to be turned in would be very long and have a com- paratively narrow base, in other words, where the blood supply would necessarily be imperfect, it has been recommended that the flap should be dissected up but left attached at each end, and that both it and the wound should be allowed to granulate before the actual transplantation of the flap takes place. The reason for this suggestion is that, by dissecting up the flap but leaving it attached at both ends, it is more likely to retain its vitality, while new blood-vessels and a more perfect blood supply are developed during the process of granulation. In this plan the flaps are usually made more or less quadrilateral, and their two ends are not detached. After disinfection of the skin, lateral incisions are made down to the deep fascia, and then the flap is undermined throughout its whole extent, so that the^ finger can readily be passed under it in all directions. A piece of protective, dipped in a 1-2000 sublimate solution, is then inserted between the under surface of the flap and the deeper structures, and this is kept in place for from ten to fourteen days. At the end of this time the new vascular supply will have developed, and one end of the flap is divided, and the latter turned in so as to cover the defect. This method certainly does over- come great difficulties with regard to the nutrition of the flaps, but cases in which such elaborate measures are necessary are usually more success- fully treated by Thiersch's skin-grafting. Occurrence of Sepsis in Open Wounds.—Should these wounds become septic in consequence of some error committed during the operation or the subsequent treatment, the results as regards the patient are not usually of a very serious character, unless the wound communicates with a cavity in the bone or with the interior of a joint, etc.; the wound being widely open, the septic material readily flows away into the dressing, and only