87 ADMINISTRATION OF NITROUS OXIDE. (5) Nature of the Operation.—To a great extent, the influence of the nature of the operation upon the choice of the anaesthetic, must be largely determined by the opinion of the surgeon upon the subject. It is, therefore, a point of no little importance that the latter should have complete confi- dence in the administrator. The careful selection of the admiriistrator is a question of the greatest moment, and not to be dismissed lightly; to take any one that offers is very unjust to the patient, and accounts for many of the troubles and fatalities which are from time to time recorded. Operations upon the head and neck, A.C.E. to induce, increasing the propor- tion of ether in long operations. Intra-cranial operations, . . . Chloroform or A.C.E. all through. Operations upon the tongue and mouth, Induce with A.C.E. ; change for chloro- form directly operation commenced. Operations on big joints, . . . Always ether, if possible. Abdominal operations, ... Do well with ether, but chloroform or A.C.E. often preferred by surgeons. Rectal and genito-urinary operations, Always ether, if possible. In practice, the choice of the anaesthetic may be quickly determined by adopting a process of exclusion, taking the different substances in the order of their relative strength as given on p. 85. Commencing with Nitrous Oxide, the reasons for and against each drug may be rapidly worked out in accordance with the above tables. Administration of Nitrous Oxide. Properties,—The chemical constitution of Nitrous Oxide is sufficiently indicated by the formula NgO. It is a gas, but is usually sold in a highly compressed, liquid form, in steel or iron bottles (Fig. 18, A). The gas, when pure, should be quite colourless, of a slightly sweetish taste and odour, and unirritating to the air passages. It is a feeble ansesthetic, and is usually given without any admixture with air, i.e. 100 per cent, of the vapour. Cases Suitable.—Broadly speaking, anyone can take nitrous oxide with comparative safety. It is better, perhaps, not to administer it within an hour or so of a full meal, and care should be taken that the bladder is empty, especially in children, but otherwise, no special preparation is needed, beyond that which is necessary to ensure free respiration (see p. 84). It is most frequently given with the patient sitting straight up in a chair, with the head in such a position that the tongue does not slip back over the glottis; it may, of course, be given with the patient recumbent. For the cases in which it is specially applicable, see Sec. (i), p. 85. In dental work, and in operations about the mouth, it is usual to insert a prop of cork or wood between the teeth before applying the facepiece. Although in some respects an ideal anaesthetic, there are many limita- tions to its use; the most important of these is that, owing to its feeble