SYNCOPE. •43 may be overcome and the circulation re-established. In these cases, it is not uncommon for a small patch of pneumonia to form in the lungs where the bubbles of air and blood have collected. The accident is so sudden and dangerous, that the possibility of its occurrence should always be borne in mind by surgeons, especially in operating about the neck, and if veins must be divided, they should if possible be clamped before division; if, how- ever, this be not done, the proximal end should be at once compressed by the finger, so as to prevent the accidental entrance of air, and a clamp put on as quickly as possible. The operation should not be proceeded with until the divided ends of the vein have been closed. The accident is more especially likely to happen where veins are only partially divided, and where the rent is made during the surgeon's manipulations, as for instance in pulling forward the thyroid gland during thyroidectomy. Treatment—-li, during the course of an operation, symptoms arise which show that air has entered the veins, the wound should be flooded with lotion immediately the characteristic hissing or sucking noise is heard, with a view of preventing further entrance of air; and when this has been done, the next point is to make an effort to force the air out again from the vessels in the chest. This is best done by forcibly compressing the chest, while at the same time pressure on the vein is relaxed so as to allow the air and frothy blood to be poured out through its open end ; on allowing the chest to expand the vein is again compressed, and so on. Another thing that may be done, is to aspirate the vein, a small tube such as a sterilized catheter being introduced into it, the end of the vein compressed tightly around it, and then an attempt made to suck the froth out. As a rule, however, where a large quantity of air has passed in, death is immediate, and it is quite impossible to save the patient. Syncope. Syncope is a not infrequent complication of operations. By the term is meant complete arrest of the heart's action, accompanied by loss of conscious- ness. This is in contrast to shock where the loss of consciousness is not complete, and where the pulse is always to be felt although it is often very feeble. Syncope or faintness may result from sudden loss of blood; from withdrawal of blood to another part, as in tapping the abdomen for ascites; or reflexly from sudden nervous shock, especially if the patient be not fully an£Esthetised. Where the patient is not under an antesthetic, syncope is usually preceded by vertigo, tinnitus, nausea, and imperfect sight, and these symptoms are followed by arrest of the heart's action, cessation of bleeding, marked pallor, dilated pupils, cold sweat over the forehead, cold extremities, respirations feeble or absent, and total loss of consciousness. The condition is due to a deficient supply of blood to the brain. Except in extreme cases, the arrest of the heart's action is