GANGRENE DUE TO CRUSHING. 65 ETIOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATION.—We may now pass on to the consideration of the etiological classification of gangrene, according to which there are three great varieties, namely, direct, indirect, and specific gangrene. By direct gangrene is meant gangrene of a part which has been directly subjected to an injury, as, for instance, where a cart wheel passes over the foot and the result is that the foot dies. Indirect gangrene is where the gangrene occurs at some distance from the cause, as, for instance, where, after ligature of the femoral artery, the foot becomes gangrenous; and specific gangrene is the variety due to specific organisms, for example, phagedena, acute traumatic gangrene, and the like. A. Direct Gangrene may be due (i) to crushing of the part, (2) to pressure, (3) to acute inflammation, and (4) to the action of heat or cold. (i) Gangrrene due to Crushing.—The most common cause of direct gangrene is severe contusion or crushing, as, for example, where a limb has been run over. In some cases the parts which are directly subjected to injury may lose their vitality at once; in other cases, where septic inflam- mation occurs subsequently, tissues may die which were not killed outright by the injury itself. Further, we may in these cases have indirect as well as direct gangrene; for example, where the wheel of a heavy cart passes over the leg it may rupture the blood-vessels going to the foot, and so lead to gangrene of the toes and the foot as well as of the tissues at the site of the injury. This form of gangrene is moist, and the constitu- tional symptoms and local appearances depend on whether or not it has been possible to render the part aseptic immediately after the injury. Treatment.—In this form of gangrene affecting the extremities, it is not always easy at first to say whether the part be killed or not; hence.it is well, when the state of the patient will permit, to wait until it is possible to ascertain the exact extent of the injury. But at the same time, while waiting, means must be taken to prevent or diminish as far as possible the putrefaction of any portion which may die. The parts should there- fore be disinfected thoroughly in the manner just described (see p. 64), and a dressing applied and left on for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, till it is seen how much tissue is going to die. An additional advantage of delay is that the patient may recover from the shock of the accident before he is subjected to the shock of the amputation; one of the great dangers of primary amputation is the addition of the shock of the operation to the shock caused by the injury. The question of amputation depends upon the amount of injury done. In some cases there is no object in waiting, because it can be seen at once that the injury is irreparable. For example, where not only the skin but also the bones, the vessels and the nerves are destroyed, there can be no question as to the advisability of amputation. On the other hand, if the blood-vessels and nerves are intact, it may still be possible to save the limb, even although the bones be extensively crushed, and a large area of skin destroyed, provided always that the wound be rendered E