I02 ANESTHETICS. and of shorter duration, and it is followed by a period of depression, in which the blood pressure falls, the pulse becomes smaller and weaker, and the respirations shallower. During the stage of excitement the pupils^ as a rule, dilate rather widely, and this dilatation may continue, especially in young children and in the neurotic, for a considerable length of time, if not during the whole period of narcosis; usually, however, the pupil during the third stage is moderately contracted, i.e. rather smaller than with ether. During the fourth stage, the pupil tends to dilate, often suddenly, and this is an indication that the narcosis is of dangerous depth. Then, again, a rather widely dilated pupil is often the precursor of vomiting, which cannot of course occur unless the patient be but lightly anaesthetised. These alter- ations in the size of the pupils, when rightly interpreted, afford valuable information to the administrator, but at the same time it is obvious, that we cannot rely upon the pupil phenomena alone as indications of the exact state of the patient. Occasionally during induction, and especially in children, the patient passes imperceptibly into a curious and anomalous condition of ansesthetically induced sleep, or false ancesthesia ; the pupils are sharply contracted, the limbs are quite flaccid, the superficial reflexes abolished, and it is not until the deeper reflexes are excited, as by the skin incision, that we are able to recognize the fact that the state is in reality one of light anaesthesia. The ideal condition of a patient under chloroform should be somewhat as follows, viz. : colour good, or slightly pallid \ respirations regular, fairly deep, slightly accelerated, quiet, or with a slight, soft snore; eyeballs fixed or rotating very slowly from side to side, pupils moderately contracted and sluggishly sensitive, corneal conjunctivae insensitive. The greatest variations from this standard will be found in the very young and the very old—in old people the respirations and pulse rate may both be very much below the average. It is impossible, however, to refer in detail to all the varia- tions which may be observed. Very occasionally in quite young infants, an undue strength of vapour will give rise to some slight laryngeal spasm. Blueness of the lips, cheeks, ears, etc., is quite unwarranted, as it indicates that the vapour is being given in far too great a strength, and air must at once be supplied; some patients become very pale under any anaes- thetic which contains chloroform, and, if this pallor is gradually displaced by an ashy-grey hue, it is an indication that the circulation is failing, and the antesthetic must be at once withdrawn, and, if need be, more energetic measures taken (see p. 112). The respirations must be watched with the greatest possible vigila?ice, and variations in the rapidity and depth should be detected early. Quick, shallow breathing may end in total cessation of respiration, and is an indication for diminishing the strength of the vapour, or even withdrawing it for a time altogether. The treatment to be adopted when the breathing does stop will be described presently (see p. 112). Pure chloroform, unmixed with ether, should not, theoretically, give rise to noisy or stertorous respirations, and certainly noisy breathing which