200 WOUNDS. special care must be taken in the antiseptic management of the case, because, should the part become septic, there may be acute suppuration of the articular or the serous cavity, with all the evils which will be described when we come to speak of these conditions. The Fifth and Sixth Degrees.—The treatment of the fifth and sixth degrees of burn has to be considered essentially in regard to the extremities; if the burn be situated elsewhere, the patient usually dies at once. Should, however, a burn of these degrees be upon the skull or parts of the trunk, and the patient survive, the aim of the treatment must be to render and keep the part aseptic, to support the patient's strength, and to wait until the slough separates; then if no vital part be involved, the defect will be gradually filled up with granulations, and a time will come when skin-grafting can be usefully employed. In the case of the extremities, however, when the tissues down to and including the bone are completely charred, or when only the fifth degree is reached, and the tissues are destroyed over a large area, the question of primary amputation arises. This question must be answered in the affirmative wherever the extremity is seen to be hopelessly destroyed; the only points for discussion are as to when and where the amputation should be performed. As a rule it is best to wait until the shock has passed off, for if, as is frequently the case, amputation be performed before this, the shock is very apt to be much increased, and to bring about a fatal result. In the majority of cases, if the part be roughly disinfected and wrapped up in an antiseptic dressing, it is quite safe to wait for from 12 to 24 hours, till the shock is at any rate partly recovered from, and then, taking care to employ all the measures calculated to prevent or minimise shock (see p. 139), amputation may be proceeded with. In determining the seat of the amputation it must be remembered that it is not necessary to go very far above the actually charred tissue; there is certainly no necessity for going above the region of the erythema. If the part be kept aseptic (and of course special attention must be devoted to the purification of the skin in the region of the amputation) this congestion will subside without leading to any trouble during the healing of the stump. EFFECTS OF INTENSE COLD. Local Effects.—The local effects of cold in some respects resemble those of heat. The parts chiefly affected are those most distant from the heart, such as the toes and the fingers (especially the great toe, and the little finger), the nose and the ears. Moist cold is more likely to do harm than dry, and where there is wind, frost-bite is much more likely to occur than where the atmosphere is still. The effect of cold is to cause great local contraction of the vessels, so that the part becomes at first livid and ultimately white. On the cessation of the cold, reaction