19 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. thus set up may, so to speak, wash out the part and aid the absorption. Where the inflammation is more deeply seated, the best effect is usually produced by applying the blister directly over the spot. The actual cautery is one of the most potent means of producing counter-irritation, and it is used either to form one large sore or a number of small ones. The formation of a large sore is probably the more effectual method. In cases of spinal disease, for example, the production of a superficial sore on each side of the spine, two or three inches in length and a couple of inches in breadth, will often do a great deal of good. Similarly, in hip-joint disease, two sores, one in front and one behind the joint, will often relieve the acute starting pains from which the patient suffers. Only the superficial part of the skin should be acted on, as it is important that the whole thickness should not be destroyed. In order to Fig. 4.—Flat Cautery. The flat surface is generally used, but the edge can be employed if it be desired to score lines upon the skin. produce these large sores effectually, and without too much destruction of tissue, it is best to use a flat, iron cautery—such as that depicted above (see Fig. 4)—heated to a white heat, and for this an ansesthetic is generally necessary. If not at a white heat, it is difficult to gauge the amount of destruction of the skin produced ; one may easily do either too much or too little. As a matter of experience we know that, where a cautery is used white hot, it suffices to rub it quickly two or three times over the part in order to produce the desired amount of burning. All that is wanted is to destroy the epidermis and portions of the rete mucosum, and thus lay bare the terminations of a large number of nerves. After the cautery has been applied, poultices or hot fomentations should be used until the slough separates, which will occur in four or five days. If now the wound were left to itself, or merely dressed with some simple ointment, it would heal with great rapidity, because the skin, not being deeply destroyed, there are numerous points from which epithelium would quickly spread over the part. As a matter of fact, however, it is necessary, in order to get the best effect from the use of the actual cautery, to keep the sore open from four to six weeks. This can only be done by the application of some irritant ointment to the sore after the slough has separated. The ointment usually employed for this purpose is savin oint- ment, but many patients are unable to bear, for any length of time, the pain caused by the pure savin ointment, and hence in most cases it is necessary to dilute it with an equal part of simple ointment, or to add about 10 per cent, of cocaine. Even where savin ointment is used healing