129 MEANS OF CONTROLLING H/EMORRHAGE. persistent oozing may occur. Venous bleeding usually ceases spontaneously, if a vein be not completely divided, except where severe coughing or crying gives rise to an obstruction to the flow of blood through the veins, and leads to jetting out of blood through the divided wall. Tourniquet.—In dealing with haemorrhage, it is necessary to consider not only its arrest, but also its prevention. Under certain circumstances it is advisable to arrest the circulation in the part upon which an operation is being performed. Formerly this was done by means of a tourniquet, a band tied tightly round the limb, furnished with a screw and a pad, which was placed over the artery, and screwed up till the circulation through the vessel was arrested. Esmarch's bandage.—While the tourniquet arrested the circulation through the main vessel, it did not stop the collateral bleeding. At the present time an elastic band, with which the name of Esmarch is associated, is tied firmly round the limb at the upper part, and in this way the whole circulation, not merely in the main vessel, but in all the other vessels of the limb, is effectually controlled. In the case of weakly patients—for example, in cases of amputation—it is also of importance to preserve the blood which is already present in the limb; or to empty the limb of blood, for example, in suturing nerves where it is necessary to render the field of operation entirely bloodless. Esmarch's plan is to bandage the limb spirally from the extremity upwards, by means of a broad elastic bandage very firmly applied, so as to expel all the blood from the vessels ; when the upper part of the limb is reached, an elastic tube or cord is applied transversely around it, and then the spiral elastic bandage is taken off. The objection to this method is, in the first place, that it is frequently undesirable, and, in the second place, it is unnecessary. It is a very un- desirable method in cases of tumours or of suppuration, as in them the elastic bandage is very apt to squeeze pus or tumour substance into the tissues or the vessels during its application, and thus serious results may be caused. Lister's method.—On the other hand, the plan introduced by Lord Lister, of elevating the limb for a few minutes before applying the elastic tourniquet, suffices to empty the limb of blood. If the limb be elevated the veins immediately collapse, and reflexly the main arteries contract, so that the limb becomes practically bloodless if the position be maintained for two or three minutes. When this has been done, and while the limb is still raised, an elastic bandage is applied in a circular manner around its upper part. In this way, a field practically as free from blood as by Esmarch's method is obtained without any risk of disseminating pus or tumour substance. It is only in a few cases that this bloodless plan is of real advantage. It is of great value in operations such as suture of nerves or tendons, where the delicate dissections so often called for would be marred by the presence of blood in the wound. In amputations the arrest of the I