253 EPITHELIAL TUMOURS. because many of them are distinctly of irritative origin and sometimes spontaneously disappear; nevertheless it is most convenient to refer to them here. Papillomata.—This group includes warts, or papillomata proper, corns and horns. Warts on the skin are usually hard and sessile, while on the mucous membrane they are soft and pedunculated. The papillcE of which they are composed may be single or branched, and it is the branched form which gives rise to the pedunculated growths of which the type are those seen on the prepuce. Treatment.—A simple and effectual method of treating ordinary hard warts on the skin is to pare away the dense epithelium on the surface until the vascular tops of the papillte are exposed, and then to apply some caustic, so as to destroy their bases; the one which answers best and which leaves the least scar is strong salicylic acid. The most useful form of application is a mixture of salicylic acid with flexile collodion in the proportion of loo grains of the former to the ounce of the latter. After the wart has been shaved down so as to expose the papillae, it is dried and painted over with the mixture. Twelve hours later, as much of the collodion as will readily come off is picked away and a fresh layer applied, and this is repeated night and morning; in the course of a week or ten days the wart will generally be found to have withered away. Should the action not be sufficiently rapid, the wart should be shaved afresh from time to time, so as to expose the base, and the acid again applied. This method may also be sometimes employed for gonorrhceal warts covering the prepuce, where a large raw area would be left if they were clipped off with scissors. Here it is not necessary to shave the wart before applying the caustic. The prepuce should be retracted, and the wart thoroughly dried and then painted with the salicylic collodion; this must be allowed to dry thoroughly before the prepuce is pulled forwards, as otherwise a sore on the glans may be produced by contact with the acid. In fact, it is best, after having painted the warts and allowed them to dry, to intro- duce between the glans and the prepuce a piece of dry boracic lint, which will both absorb moisture and at the same time prevent the contact of the salicylic acid with the mucous membrane on the opposite side. Should this method of treatment prove ineffectual, the wart must be removed by the knife. When papillomata are sessile and are situated on the skin, it is not sufficient merely to clip them off, as they will certainly grow again; it is usually necessary to excise them. When the papillomata are pedunculated, and the pedicle is narrow, it is best to clip them off at the base with scissors, and then next day and for a few days in succession, to paint the cut surface with salicylic collodion. The papillomata which occur on mucous membranes elsewhere, such as the bladder or rectum, must be removed by special methods of operation; these will be described in their appropriate places. Horns.—In these cases the epithelium remains heaped up in masses