223 TETANUS. When the patient is under the influence of the anaesthetic, the spasm rapidly subsides, and repeated administrations may be called for in bad cases. When the patient is unable to swallow, advantage should be taken of the administration of the ansesthetic to introduce suitable nourishment into the stomach by means of a stomach tube; the opportunity may also be taken to give a nutrient enema. Morphine^ in doses of ^th of a grain subcutaneously, may also be given every three or four hours, but among drugs the chief reliance is to be placed on chloral and chloroform. When hyperpyrexia occurs the temperature should be reduced by sponging with tepid water (see p. 215) or by cold wet packing. The former is preferable, as cold water is very apt to set up a spasm. Should sponging fail to reduce the temperature it may however be necessary to have recourse to wet packing, which is done as follows. A mackintosh is put under the patient who is then wrapped up in a sheet wrung out of iced water. A blanket is thrown over him and he is left in the wet pack for from five to fifteen minutes. At the end of this time the sheet and the mackintosh are removed, and the patient is carefully dried and covered with the bedclothes. Diet.—As far as possible the strength should be kept up by proper nourishment; indeed, this is a most essential part of the treatment, and the great majority of cases where the patient cannot swallow end fatally. Stimulants may also be necessary towards the end of the disease. If the patient cannot swallow, and especially if the attempts to do so produce con- vulsions, it is necessary to resort to rectal feeding; great care must, however, be taken to disturb the patient as little as possible in introducing the food into the rectum. For this purpose zyminised suppositories are of great value; one should be introduced every four hours, and every two hours after the suppository a beef-tea enema should be given. The enema should be small, about two ounces of Bovril at a time being sufficient; it is best to peptonise it before it is introduced (see p. 83). Later on in the disease, when the patient is becoming exhausted, it may be necessary to administer stimulants along with the beef-tea enemata. Watch should be kept to see that the urine is passed, for the bladder is very apt to become distended, and from time to time of course the bowels should be washed out with an injection of warm water. Above all things, care should be taken to avoid all sudden movements, and to be as gentle in manipulating the patient as possible.