ADMINISTRATION OF CHLOROFORM. 99 Administration of Chloroform. Strictly speaking, one ought now to describe the administration of diluted chloroform in the shape of the mixtures (A.C.E., etc.), as these rank next above ether in anaesthetic strength. For convenience in de- scription, however, and to avoid repetition, chloroform anaesthesia will first be referred to. Properties.—Chloroform has a chemical formula of CHCI3. Its spec, ^s^av. should be i'497, and only that made from pure alcohol should be employed; the so-called methylated chloroform is inadmissible for anaesthetic purposes. Unless carefully protected from heat and sun- light, it is apt to decompose.^ It should be quite colourless; neutral to test paper; leaving no disagreeable smell or coloured residue on evapora- tion ; giving no precipitate with a solution of nitrate of silver; and not turning brown on mixing with an equal volume of pure sulphuric acid. The vapour is upwards of four times as heavy as air, uninflammable, but decomposing into highly irritating gases when passed through or brought into contact with a flame. Hence it is important, when operating at night, or in small rooms in the presence of a naked flame, to secure a full and adequate amount of ventilation. Chloroform is the strongest anaesthetic that we possess ; above 4 per cent, of the vapour constitutes a dangerous dose. With nitrous oxide and with ether, special means have to be adopted to obtain a sufficient percentage of the vapour; with chloroform, on the other haufi, the greatest attention must be paid to securing a sufificient supply of air. Cases suitable.—If the suggestions already made (see p. 85) as to the alternative use of the several drugs be adopted, it will be found that the use of undiluted chloroform will be limited to such cases as the following, viz.—Infants, and very young children of one or two years of age ; those suffering from acute or very recently acute lung trouble; in parturition, where only a partial action seems to be required ; in operations about the nose and mouth, to maintain the anaesthesia induced by other anaesthetics; in proximity to the actual cautery, etc. Chloroform enters largely, however, into the composition of the A.C.E. and other mixtures, so that practically it still retains a prominent place in the list of available anaesthetics. The preparation of the patient should be carried out strictly on the lines suggested on p. 82, and, with regard to position, an emphatic protest must be entered against any attempt being made to administer chloroform to a patient sitting in a chair. This protest is necessary, because it is still occasionally used for tooth extraction with the patient in the ordinary ' The products of decomposition, as far as they are harmful, are said to be neutralised if a small quantity of slaked lime be kept in the chloroform bottle, the pure chloroform being decanted off as required. I have not, however, any personal experience of the value of this proceeding.