CIRCUMSCRIBED ACUTE ABSCESS. 25 through wounds, or they may pass through an unbroken surface which is no longer quite healthy. This is more especially the case with the intestinal mucous membrane, and it is not uncommon, in cases of acute suppurative. periostitis or osteomyelitis, to obtain a history of diarrhoea or some other intestinal derangement immediately preceding the onset of the trouble. Circumscribed Acute Abscess—Symptoms.—When an acute in- flammation which has gone on to granulation has lasted for four or five days, it is almost certain that suppuration will occur. When this takes place, the centre of the brawny swelling softens, and fluctuation can very soon be detected. Where the abscess is subcutaneous, the skin ultimately gives way over the soft spot, and pus escapes. Where the abscess is deep-seated, the presence of pus may not be easily recognized at an early period, but when the acute symptoms have lasted for several days and there is oedema of the skin over the part, this is generally sufficient indication of the presence of pus. Mode of Extension.—When an acute abscess has formed, it spreads along the tissues which possess the greatest vitality, the extension not being a mechanical process due to the pressure of the pus, but an active and vital one. This is what is known as the " burrowing" of the abscess. Where an abscess forms beneath the skin, it spreads to this structure, as the skin is the tissue in which the vital processes are most active, and it ultimately bursts through it in preference to burrowing along the subcutaneous cellular tissue, which is less vascular and not so quickly converted into granulation tissue. Where an abscess forms beneath a dense fascia the conditions are different. The fascia is not so quickly converted into granulation tissue as is the areolar tissue beneath, and, consequently, an abscess so confined, if left unopened, will extend for long distances and in various directions beneath the fascia. Ultimately, however, the fascia undergoes granulation, or sloughs from interference with its blood supply by the pressure of the pus, and the latter escapes into the subcutaneous tissue. As soon as this takes place the abscess behaves like a subcutaneous one and bursts through the skin. The mode in which the abscess burrows is of great importance from the point of view of treatment. If an acute abscess be left unopened until a late period it will be found to be no longer a single round cavity, but one containing numerous diverticula corresponding to the directions in which the inflammation has extended in the deeper tissues. Unless these diverticula are thoroughly opened up, the mere evacuation of the superficial portion of the abscess will often fail to arrest the progress of the suppuration. Perhaps the best example of this is in the breast, where the abscess is rarely found to consist of a single cavity, but usually possesses many diverticula, corresponding more or less to the ducts and lobules of the breast. If an abscess of this kind be not opened in the manner to be presently described, the pus in these diverticula will be retained, and may lead to fresh openings, the ultimate result being that the whole of the breast becomes riddled with sinuses.