INFLAMMATION. 8 already referred to in describing cupping, and they are mostly used in cases of inflammation affecting mucous membranes. For example, in inflam- mation about the back of the throat, when there is oedema of the glottis, much good may result from early scarification of the part, which is carried out by means of a small curved lancet introduced through the mouth. Free Incisions into an inflamed part will often prove of the very greatest value in acute inflammatory conditions, and they act not only by allowing the escape of blood from the engorged blood-vessels, but also by permitting the escape of the exudation, which might otherwise cause very much damage from pressure upon the blood-vessels. This is more especially the case in inflammations in dense tissues, such as the periosteum and bone, where the blood-vessels are confined within rigid canals, and where the pressure of the exudation in these canals may be so great as to obliterate the vessels, and so prevent the blood-supply reaching the bone. In com- mencing acute suppurative periostitis and osteomyelitis, it is imperative, if extensive necrosis is to be avoided, to make free incisions through the periosteum as soon as the case is diagnosed, and, in the case of osteo- myelitis, to remove portions of bone so as to freely open the medullary cavity. If this be done with antiseptic precautions, a very considerable number of cases will be saved from the impending necrosis. Cold.—Other methods of diminishing the local trouble in inflamma- tion are the use of cold or heat. At first sight these methods may seem contradictory, but each has its use and neither can be altogether dispensed with. Cold is supposed to act by contracting the blood-vessels going to the part, and so diminishing the flow of blood through it. A certain amount of danger is associated with the use of cold, as the vitality of the tissues may be so depressed by it that, where the inflam- mation is severe, actual death of the tissue may follow its prolonged appli- cation, and this is a point which should be carefully borne in mind. Not only does the cold of itself depress the vitality of the part, but it slows the circulation so that the blood becomes venous, and thus in another way the nutrition of the part is interfered with. Hence the use of cold should be limited to the early stages of inflammation, for directly much exudation has taken place it is hardly likely that cold will arrest the further progress of the trouble, while the danger of weakening the tissue is especially great. Cold may be applied in various ways. Probably the mildest form of using cold is by the application of one or other of the ordinary Evaporating Lotions. A good evaporating lotion consists of half an ounce of chloride of ammonium, one ounce of rectified spirit, and seven ounces of Avater. Another good formula is: Ammonii chloridi, Aceti destillali, Spiritus rectificati, Aquam ad, - 5ss. - oj- - 5j. - Sj- Misce. Ft. lotio.