ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 5 not to allow the knife to go too deeply, for it has occasionally happened that the brachial artery has been punctured by the lancet, with the result that aneurismal varix has subsequently formed. Another vein which used to be frequently opened is the external jugular vein as it crosses over the sterno-mastoid muscle, but the risk there is greater, because air may enter the vein and cause serious circulatory trouble. The operation in this situation possesses no countervailing advantages in the case of inflamma- tion, and we shall not describe it. {b) At the present day, however, we have to consider not so much general as local blood-letting, the former method being almost entirely restricted to such inflammatory conditions as those of the lungs, and some- times of the brain, characterised by engorgement of the right side of the heart. The means employed for local blood-letting are threefold, namely, the application of leeches, the use of cupping, and incisions or scarifications. As to the manner in which local blood-letting acts, it is assumed that, by withdrawing a little blood from the skin in the neighbourhood of the inflammation, less blood is carried to the inflamed part, either because afferent vessels are cut, or, more probably, because reflex contraction of the other vessels takes place through the agency of the nervous system. We shall first consider the application of leeches, with regard to which several points require to be mentioned. In the first place, the part to which the leeches are to be applied must be carefully cleansed, as otherwise they do not readily bite, and if there is any difficulty, the appli- cation of a little cream or milk to the skin will sometimes prove eff"ectual in making them do so. When the leeches are put on the skin, it is very necessary to confine them until they have taken a good hold, because as a rule they do not bite directly they are applied. This is most con- veniently done by inverting over them the bottom of a pill-box, from which the top has been removed. In a short time they will fix themselves, and the pill-box can then be taken away. Special leech-glasses are employed for this purpose, and they answer admirably; but in using them it is of course necessary to see that the leech is put tail first (the thick end of the leech) and not head first into the glass. This seems an unnecessary remark, but nevertheless the mistake is not uncommonly made by students. A narrow test tube answers the purpose of a leech-glass excellently. Several accidents have taken place where leeches have been left free, on account of their having wandered into mucous canals, such as the rectum or the vagina, and there caused considerable mischief. When a leech has been applied it is allowed to suck its fill, and the amount of blood which an individual leech will abstract is from a drachm to a drachm and a half. As a rule, when it has sucked as much blood as it will hold, it falls off, but should there be any delay in its detachment, it can be hastened by applying some salt and water to it. When a leech has been removed, and it is proposed to use it again, it should be placed for a short time in salt and water, and this has the efi"ect of making it