121 LOCAL ANESTHESIA. produce a sufficient, but not too great a fall in temperature, and, therefore, the hardness of the skin, and the after-smarting are less obvious objections than when simple freezing or the ether spray are employed. In using these tubes, care must be taken that the nozzle is held far enough off the part to enable the stream of fluid to fall in a fine shower upon the surface, otherwise, free evaporation does not take place, and the freezing is much delayed. Drugs. Many drugs, pardy by their direct action upon the nerve endings, pardy by the pressure of the fluid injected, partly by interfering with the blood supply of the part, have an anaesthetic action upon the tissues in the imme- diate vicinity of their point of application. For instance, an incision made into a tissue upon which pure carbolic acid, or even a solution of 1-20, has been painted, will hardly be felt, but this plan is not to be recommended. The drug generally employed nowadays is cocaine. This is the crystal- line, active principle of the leaves of the coca plant {erythroxylon coca), and its chemical constitution is represented by the formula C17H21NO4. The alkaloid itself is nearly insoluble in water, but the hydrochlorate is freely soluble, and is the form in which the substance is generally used. Solutions of this salt are particularly prone to decomposition, and numerous forms of infective bacteria frequently appear. To a considerable extent, this is prevented if 5 per cent, of salicylic acid be added to the solution. When first introduced into surgical practice, the use of 5 per cent, and 10 per cent, solutions was advised, and these are about the strengths still usually employed in this country. On the Continent and in America, however, where, as already mentioned, the subject of local angesthesia has received much attention, it has lately been proposed to use rather larger quantities of much weaker strength (i or 2 per cent.), with a view to avoiding the untoward symptoms which frequently occur when the more potent solutions are employed. In any event, not more than from ^ to f gr. of the drug itself should be injected hypodermically at a single sitting. In using cocaine, it is particularly advisable that, whenever possible, the patient should be recumbent, and, as a useful precaution, a cup of broth or beef-tea, or an alcoholic stimulant may be given beforehand. The following are the principal plans adopted, viz., (1) Instillation.-—In ophthalmic surgery a few drops of the solution are placed in the eye, and the instillation is repeated at intervals of three or four minutes, until a sufficient degree of anaesthesia has been obtained ; this is usually after the lapse of from five to ten minutes. (2) Spray.—This is useful in operations about the nose and larynx. A convenient form of spray-producer is shown in Fig. 39. A