TUBERCULOSIS. 244 Climatic conditions are very important as accessory factors. In climates where individuals are much exposed to cold and wet, and where, moreover, they congregate in small over-heated rooms, the disease is very apt to occur, especially if one of the community has tuberculosis and thus forms a focus of infection for the rest. Pathology.—The bacillus when introduced into the tissues leads to the formation of a microscopic collection of cells, termed a tubercle. These cells are epitheloid cells, which are much larger than the ordinary white corpuscles, and are probably derived from pre-existing connective-tissue cells, from the lymphatic endothelium, or even sometimes from the endo- thelium of the blood-vessels. Among these epitheloid cells one or more in each tubercle very often increase in size or run together, and form what are called giant cells. The subsequent history is that these tubercles increase in number until a large mass is formed; caseation then commences in the older tubercles, the cells gradually die, and the result is that to- wards the centre, or at any rate towards the older part of the mass, a cheesy material is formed; this may become encapsuled and remain quiescent, or it may give rise to a chronic abscess. Around the tubercles there is generally a considerable area which is not yet infected with the bacillus but which is in a state of chronic inflammation; this chronic inflammation is of great importance as an aid to the spread of the tubercles, as the latter more readily invade any structure thus affected than one that is quite healthy. Retrogressive Changes.—The resistance of the living tissues to the growth of the organism is very considerable, so that in many cases, when the causes which facilitate the progress of the disease are removed, the bacillus is destroyed or gradually ceases to grow, and retrogressive changes then take place. These latter consist essentially in the conversion of the tubercle into fibrous tissue and the ultimate disappearance of the tuberculous material. In other cases, where the tuberculous tissue has under- gone caseation and recovery takes place, portions of the cheesy material are absorbed whilst others are left behind and become encapsuled and, for the time being, quiescent, but unfortunately the bacilli or their spores seem to retain their vitality in these masses for an indefinite period. As long as the capsule around the caseous material is unbroken, and the latter is pro- tected from the action of the cells and juices of the tissues, the bacilli seem to lie dormant, but any slight injury or some constitutional cause may very rapidly break up this encapsuled mass and lead to fresh growth of the organism and fresh infection of the part. It is, however, very important to remember that, where the conditions are favourable, the body has a very strong tendency to check the growth of the bacillus or even to overcome it altogether. Causes inimical to them.—Various causes prevent the living tissues from destroying the tubercle, and these influences must be borne in mind so that, if present, they may be neutralised or removed. The majority