WOUNDS. 220 Treatment of Phlegmonous cases.—Where the case is one of the so-called phlegmonous or gangrenous erysipelas, the treatment must be practically that of diffuse cellulitis (see p. 29). Free incisions should be made into the part in all directions so as to allow the escape of the discharge, and then constant irrigation carried out in the manner already described (see p. 30). Atitistreptococcic Serum.—The advisability of using the antistreptococcic serum in this affection must also be borne in mind. This is only on its trial and so far the results are not very encouraging. At the same time, as it does not seem to do any harm, we are inclined, at any rate until some more definite conclusion is arrived at as to its use, to recommend that any of the forms of treatment mentioned above should be accompanied by the injection under the skin of the abdomen of a full dose of the anti-streptococcic serum. As at present supplied by the Jenner Institute of Preventive Medicine, a full dose is about 20 c.c, of the serum; a dose of half that quantity should be repeated in twelve hours, while a third dose may be given twelve hours later (see also p. 183). TETANUS. Definition.—Tetanus may be defined as an infective disease of wounds due to a special bacillus and characterised by painful tonic contractions of the muscles with convulsive exacerbations: it commences in the muscles of the jaw and neck, and spreads to all the voluntary muscles of the body. Symptoms.—The affection usually begins between the fifth and fifteenth day after the infliction of the wound, and, preceding the establishment of the disease, there are often prodromata, such as a feeling of malaise, a tendency to yawn, headache, fear on the part of the patient that he will not get better, and neuralgic pains in the wound radiating along the nerves and accompanied by local spasms or cramps. In a day or so after the appearance of these premonitory symptoms the typical symptoms of tetanus set in : the muscles of mastication are generally the first to be affected and this produces the condition known as trismus. The masticators contract and more or less fix the jaw, and on any attempt to open the mouth to eat or drink, convulsive contractions of these muscles occur. The spasm next attacks the muscles of the neck, resulting in the fixation of the head, and about the same time the muscles of expression also become affected, giving rise to the ristis sardonicus. In this condition the angles of the mouth are drawn out, the alse of the nose elevated, the eyes widely opened, and the forehead wrinkled. The next set of muscles affected is generally the pharyngeal group, leading to spasmodic dysphagia. Soon the voluntary muscles elsewhere are attacked, generally in groups, those next affected being usually the sacro-lumbar muscles and those of the lower extremities, leading to opisthotonos; then the muscles