CHAPTER 11. ACUTE SUPPURATION. DEFINITION.^—^By acute suppuration is meant a process where the inflammation, after reaching the stage of granulation, goes on to liquefaction of the tissues and the formation of pus. Pus is a fluid containing in suspension cells resembling leucocytes, and it may either form in the substance of the tissues where the inflammation is deep-seated, or be given off from a free surface. We shall only consider here the question of suppuration as it occurs in the substance of the tissues. Suppuration from a free surface will be discussed later, in connection with the treatment of wounds and ulcers. SUPPURATION IN THE TISSUES.—Suppuration in the tissues occurs under two forms. In the first, the pus is contained in a well-defined cavity with a distinct wall formed of granulation tissue; in the second, it infiltrates the cellular tissue and there is no proper limiting membrane, the tissues being, so to speak, soaked with the purulent material. The former is the ordinary circumscribed acute abscess, the latter is a much more dangerous form of suppuration, and is known as diffuse cellulitis. Causes.—Acute suppuration is always due to the pyogenic organisms, the circumscribed abscess being more especially caused by the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus or albus (and in some rare instances by other less virulent forms), diffuse cellulitis by the streptococcus pyogenes. Although these organisms are the essential cause of acute suppuration, it must be borne in mind that they will not necessarily of themselves cause suppuration unless present in large numbers or in a state of extreme virulence. In most cases other accessory factors which favour the growth of the organisms are present, as, for example, conditions which enable the organisms to rest in the part, or which produce a weak spot in which the tissues are less resistent than elsewhere. Thus, it is not uncommon to find acute abscesses forming in parts which have been injured, or have previously been the seat of inflammation, the tissues there being in a weak state and less able to resist the attack of the parasite. The organisms reach the part either directly through a wound, or indirectly through the lymphatic vessels or the blood stream. Usually, in the case of an acute abscess the entrance is more or less direct. The organisms may gain entrance to the blood either