INFLAMMATION. 12 There are various advantages and disadvantages in the use of poultices as compared with fomentations. The great advantage is that poultices retain the heat longer, and therefore it is not necessary to change them so frequently as fomentations, while, on the whole, they are considerably warmer. The chief objection arises in cases where a surgical operation will subsequently be necessary. The proper purification of the skin after a poultice has been used is a difficult matter, for the latter is a de- composing vegetable substance, which soaks into and penetrates the hair follicles, the hairs and the epidermis, and much scrubbing is required to disinfect the skin. Hence, where an abscess is likely to form, and when surgical measures may therefore be required, it is well to employ fomenta- tions instead of poultices. With a view of obviating this septic difficulty, various antiseptics have been mixed with the poultice. Charcoal is some- times employed, but this substance is simply a deoderant, and possesses no true antiseptic properties. Boracic, or carbolic acid are also sometimes mixed with the poultice. The best mixture probably is one of linseed meal and eucalyptus oil, but none of them are satisfactory from the anti- septic point of view, and hence, where an operation is likely to be re- quired, fomentations should be substituted for poultices, at any rate for some days beforehand. In the case of fomentations, the rules as regards the retention of the heat must be attended to even more carefully than in the case of poultices. A fomentation consists of a piece of flannel wrung out of boiling water, covered with a piece of mackintosh and a mass of wool; and the great point in the preparation of a fomentation is to apply it as hot as possible, and to prevent the loss of heat during its preparation. For this purpose it is well first of all to prepare a mass of wool considerably larger than the flannel and to place it in readiness before a warm fire. On the top of that place a piece of mackintosh with the mackintosh side outwards, sufficiently large to overlap the flannel in all directions. A well-warmed basin is then taken, a dry towel is unfolded and placed over it, and in the centre of this towel a piece of flannel of suitable size folded in two or four thicknesses is laid. Boiling water is then poured over the flannel, and, the ends of the towel being rapidly twisted up, the flannel is squeezed as dry as possible. No water must be left in the flannel lest the patient's skin be scalded. The folded flannel is then very quickly shaken out and placed on the top of the mackintosh, and then the whole mass—wool, mackintosh, and flannel—are lifted up and appHed to the aff"ected part as rapidly as possible. As soon as the patient can bear it, the mass is fixed on with a binder or bandage. The fomentation will usually require renewal in from half an hour to an hour, but it may be kept warm longer by placing an indiarubber hot-water bottle outside it, if the patient can bear the pressure. The precautions taken in renewing the fomentations are the same as those mentioned with regard to a poultice, that is to say, a warm towel must be at hand, with which the skin is at once dried and chafed