47 TREATMENT OF ULCERS IN GENERAL. become healthy, and no time is lost even if the granulations be com- pletely destroyed. The carbolic acid causes a good deal of pain at the time, but this passes off in a minute or two, for the acid is a local anaes- thetic, and the disinfection is more thoroughly carried out in this way than in any other. Where the granulations are prominent, or soft and cedematous, it is well to scrape them away with a sharp spoon; if the ulcer be large a general anaesthetic is necessary. Other methods of purifying the ulcer have been employed. Lord Lister used to apply a solution of chloride of zinc (40 grains to the ounce of water). This however is much more painful than the application of the undiluted carbolic acid, the pain lasting for hours, while the method does not seem to be so efficient. In cases where one does not wish to employ undiluted carbolic acid, disinfection of the sore may be obtained by packing the surface with lint dipped in i to 5 carbolic oil; if this be changed twice a day, the foul condition will usually be got rid of in the course of two or three days. Care must be taken that the oil is only applied to the surface of the ulcer; if applied to the skin it may produce much irritation. First dressing after disinfection.—After the disinfection has been carried out a suitable dressing must be appHed, and the best to employ at first is cyanide gauze and salicylic wool, as used in the treatment of wounds (see Chap. VIII.). The cyanide gauze should be soaked in 1-4000 sublimate solution and applied directly to the surface of the ulcer, and the salicylic wool put on outside. In some cases, where there is a doubt as to the completeness of the disinfection, it is well to pack the recesses of the ulcer with small pieces of cyanide gauze which have been lightly squeezed out of 1-2000 sublimate solution. Boracic lint and protective dressing.—After two or three days, when the asepsis of the part is assured, and the tissues are getting into a more healthy condition, the use of gauze should be given up, and dressings and lotions employed which are of a non-irritating character. The best lotion is a saturated watery solution of boracic acid, and for a general dressing the best is the protective and boracic lint dressing introduced by Lord Lister. In this method the surface of the ulcer is washed with boracic lotion, and a piece of protective (oiled silk covered with a layer of dextrine), is dipped first in carbolic lotion (1-20), and then in boracic lotion to wash away the acid, and applied over the wound. The protective should be slightly larger than the sore, so as to overlap it in all directions, but ought not to extend too far, as otherwise sepsis may spread in beneath it. Outside this protective one or more pieces of boracic lint wrung out of boracic lotion are wrapped around the limb, overlapping the protective to a considerable extent in all directions. This dressing should be changed every day, at any rate for the first few days; and every second or third day the skin around should be washed with carbolic lotion (i to 20), care being taken that it does not run on to the sore. Once a week at