86 ANESTHETICS. (2) Position of the Patient.—Neither chloroform, nor any mixture con- taining that drug, should be used with the patient sitting up in a chair ; such a proceeding is absolutely unjustifiable. Operations upon the cerebral hemispheres, and upon the mouth and tongue, do not really constitute exceptions to this general rule, for although the body is then often raised, the feet and legs remain horizontal; even in these cases too, the more nearly horizontal the patient can be brought the better. (3) Age of the Patient.—Some anaesthetists see no objection to the use of ether at any age, while others prefer to induce narcosis with chloro- form in the very young, and continue with ether afterwards. Until sufficient facility in the use of ether has been acquired, and unless one has constant practice with the drug, it is better to adopt some such age-limits as the following : Under 3 years of age, . . . Chloroform all through. From 3 to 12, A.C.E. all through. From 12 to 60, . . . . Ether all through. Over 60, ...... Induce with A.C.E., increasing the pro- portion of ether in long operations. It is usually asserted, somewhat dogmatically, that children always take chloroform well. . It must not be forgotten, however, that many accidents have occurred, and that in the opinion of some people the death-rate with children is as high, or even higher, than with adults. This apparent im- nmnity of children from fatal accidents under chloroform, is due to many causes, among which may be mentioned the undoubted fact that, owing to their greater vitality, children respond more readily than adults to any efforts that are made in the direction of resuscitation. (4) Condition of the Patient.—Here, again,, some ansesthetists admit of but few exceptions to the use of ether, only perhaps acute lung troubles, but, at first at any rate, better results will be obtained if the range of exceptions is somewhat enlarged. In the fat and plethoric, . . . Induce with A.C.E., and gradually in- crease the proportion of ether in long operations. Acute or very recent lung troubles, . Chloroform all through. Chronic lung trouble (bronchitis or emphysema), A.C.E. all through. Organic heart disease, ... If insufficiently compensated (pulmonary oedema, anasarca, albumen, etc.), A.C.E. or chloroform. If fully com- pensated, ether permissible. Marked Atheroma Induce with A.C.E. ; add a little ether if the operation be a prolonged one. Renal Disease A.C.E. all through. Alcoholics take all anaesthetics badly. In acute or advanced cases it is, perhaps, better to commence with A.C.E., and gradually increase the proportion of ether as the case proceeds.