CHAPTER XI. AFFECTIONS OF CICATRICES. CHELOID. While in cases in which union by first intention has occurred, the cicatrix is usually healthy, this is not invariably the case, and when the wound is large and has been allowed to heal by granulation, the scar left is very often unsatisfactory. In either case the affection known as false cheloid or thickened cicatrix may be met with in certain patients. In this condition the cicatrix becomes much thickened, and raised above the surface of the surrounding skin; where the scar is linear there is a hard raised bar of this cheloid material, corresponding to the line of incision, and where it is a broad one the affection generally begins along the line of junction of the skin and the cicatricial tissue, and spreads thence throughout the rest of the scar. Where the scar is broad a most unsightly deformity is produced as the surrounding parts are pulled upon and puckered up. The scar does not yield as ordinary scar tissue should, and the cheloid itself is painful, and is liable to become ulcerated. Causes.—The cause of this condition is by no means clear. It would appear that there is a special tendency for it to affect scars in those who are or have been the subjects of tuberculous disease, but it also occurs in those in whom there is no such tendency, and in them it is not uncommon to find that every scar—even down to a pin- or needle-prick—will harden and become cheloid. As regards the nature of this thickening, the microscope reveals simply a large number of young cells and granulation tissue. Cheloid scars, especially if quite small, sometimes disappear in the course of time, but such a termination is very uncertain and cannot be confidently reckoned on. Treatment.—The condition is one that is excessively difficult to get rid of, and, as far as our present knowledge goes, it cannot be prevented; neither can its occurrence be anticipated. When it is seen that it is about to occur, i.e. when the scar shows signs of thickening, the best treatment is to try to diminish the vascularity of the part. This may be done in various ways, more particularly by pressure, exerted either by strapping,