WOUNDS. l82 WOUNDS THAT CANNOT BE KEPT ASEPTIC. The second great division of wounds made by the surgeon are those which not only involve the skin, but communicate with one of the mucous canals or with a septic cavity which cannot be effectually disinfected. It is impossible, for example, to exclude bacteria from a wound in the mouth, seeing that they are everywhere present in the fluids on the surface of the mucous membrane. The problem, therefore, is not how to exclude bacteria from these wounds, but how to minimise their deleterious action. Wounds of Mucous Membranes.—In the first place, it is important that, during the performance of the operation, the manipulations should be gentle, and pinching or rough treatment of the tissues should be avoided; in other words, their vitality must be interfered with as little as possible. In wounds involving the mucous membranes, union by -first intention should not be aimed at, except in rare cases such as operations for cleft palate, etc. Where union by first intention is desired, the bleeding must be thoroughly arrested, care must be taken that no foreign material is left between the edges of the wound, and that the whole of the cut surface, and not merely the edge of the mucous membrane, is in accurate and close apposition. In wounds of mucous membranes healing by blood- clot will not take place. The use of silk for stitches in these cases is out of the question, because it is absorbent and will retain decomposing material. The best material is either silkworm gut, or, where a finer stitch is wanted, horse-hair. No dressing applied to the wound is likely to be of any real service, but it is well, instead, to wash the surface of the mucous membrane frequently with weak antiseptic solutions, such as Condy's fluid (one or two grains to the ounce), or sanitas (about a tea- spoonful to the tumbler of water). The more irritating antiseptics, such as carbolic acid, should not be employed. Where the edges of the wound are not brought together, and where, therefore, healing by granulation must take place, it is of great importance to avoid septic decomposition on the surface of the wound during the first two or three days; at the end of that time, there is usually such a marked invasion of cells in the wound, that bacteria find considerable diffi- culty in entering. Almost the only bacteria that are able to penetrate at a later period than this are streptococci or such organisms as the diphtheritic bacteria. For keeping these sores aseptic for the first few days. Lord Lister used to employ a solution of chloride of zinc, of a strength of forty grains to the ounce, thoroughly sponged over the surface of the wound after the bleeding had been arrested. He regarded it as, so to speak, pickling the surface of the wound for a day or two after it had been made, and it is certainly a fact, that, after a thorough appli- cation of chloride of zinc to a cut surface exposed to the elements of putrefaction, decomposition does not occur so early as where the wound is left to nature, and therefore this method is one which