GANGRENE. 72 white, and slowly or quickly regains its original appearance when the pressure is discontinued. When recovery takes place, it does so within the first 24 hours, and when it is certain how much is going to die, amputation should be practised without further delay. There is no necessity to wait for the formation of a line of demarcation. The point at which amputation should be done depends on the anatomy of the arteries and on the extent of recovery. It should, however, be borne in mind that the gangrene is generally less extensive in the skin than in the deeper parts, and therefore, if the flaps are cut close to the gangrenous part, the incision will probably go into dead tissues as it is deepened. Hence an interval of at least two or three inches should intervene between the line of gangrene and the amputation incision. In many cases, however, amputation is done higher up than this on account of the better stump obtained, or on account of the better anastomotic circulation. Where there is blocking of the veins as well as of the arteries, the chances of recovery are less, but the rules of treatment are the same. (3) The third form of indirect gangrene is that dependent on imperfect innervation of the part. Where a limb is paralysed, the nutrition is almost always deficient, and such limbs are especially liable to the formation of bed-sores and gangrene from pressure. In hemiplegia also, where the patient is lying absolutely still, he is extremely liable to suffer from bed-sores which are worse on the paralysed side than on the sound one. Again, if extension be applied both to a paralysed limb and to a sound one, there is much greater liability for sloughs to form under the extension plaster on the paralysed than upon the sound side. The gangrene that occurs in these cases generally comes on very quickly. It is moist, and is often spoken of as an acute bed-sore, and it is very important to remember that under such circumstances the greatest possible care should be taken to avoid, as far as possible, even the slightest pressure. The part must be examined frequently to see that its condition is good, and the limb should be kept warm and slightly elevated; should sloughing occur, the case must be treated like one of bed-sore (see p. 67). There is another form of gangrene in connection with nervous derange- ments, which chiefly comes under the notice of the physician. This is what is termed symmetrical gangrene or " Raynaud's Disease." This form differs from senile gangrene, which it in some respects resembles, in that it is always bilateral, while senile gangrene is often one-sided; that it more often affects the fingers than the toes ; that it is much more limited both in extent (generally not reaching beyond the phalanges) and in depth (seldom going deeper than the skin); and that in " Raynaud's disease" the blood-vessels are normal, whereas in senile gangrene they are thickened and hard. Raynaud's disease occurs especially in hysterical women between eighteen and thirty years of age, and is most probably connected with uterine and menstrual troubles. The attacks are often brought on by cold, and are most commonly met with during the winter