TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR TYPE. more particularly in rodent ulcer, the use of caustics, but in our opinion there is nothing that will compare with free excision by means of the knife as a method of cure. In any case, if carcinomatous disease is to be rooted out, its mode of spread by means of the lymphatic vessels must be borne in mind, and as this occurs at a very early stage, and as the cells are quite microscopic, a very wide area must be included in the operation. The organ from which the original growth springs should, if practicable, be altogether removed, because its lymphatic vessels generally communicate freely with each other, and secondary deposits have probably already taken place in various parts of it. In addition, the nearest chain of lymphatic glands must also be completely removed, even though they may not be noticeably enlarged. It is sometimes difficult to decide whether the lymphatic tract inter- vening between the primary growth and the glands should also be removed. That this should be done in certain cases as, for example, in breast cancer, is evident from microscopical researches, which have shown that the lym- phatic vessels passing from the breast to the axillary glands are in the great majority of cases themselves affected, at any rate if the disease be at all advanced. On the other hand there are certain forms of carcinoma, especially of the squamous epithelial type, where the intervening lymphatics do not as a rule seem to be readily infected. In epithelioma of the lip, for instance, although the glands of the neck may be enlarged, it is only rarely that a secondary tumour arises in the course of the lymphatic vessels. The same thing holds good, although perhaps not to so marked an extent, in some cases of epithelioma of the tongue; in epithelioma of the extremities also, in the leg for example, the lymphatic vessels in the thigh are not usually affected, although the inguinal glands become involved at a comparatively early period. Hence, our advice here is to remove the primary growth and the nearest lymphatic glands, and then to watch lest recurrence should take place in the intervening tissues. On the other hand, in breast cancer it is wiser, if we wish to make sure of avoiding recurrence, to take away not only the breast and the axillary glands, but, in addition, all the intervening fat and fascia with the lymphatic vessels running in them. Full details of the steps of the various operations will be given when dealing with the affections of the individual parts and organs. TUMOURS OF THE CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TYPE. These are of two kinds, namely, those \Yhere the connective tissue is of an embryonic character, such as the sarcomata and myxomata, and those where the connective tissue is more fully formed, such as the fibro- mata and lipomata. BENIGN VARIETIES.—The other variety of embryonic connective- tissue tumpur, namely, the myxoma, has the clinical characters of a simple tumour. The myxomata are soft, gelatinous tumours, consisting of tissue,