231 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. spite of the above treatment, it is advisable to scrape the surface of the sore freely, so as to remove all the sloughs, and then to apply undiluted carbolic acid to the raw surface; this may be followed by dusting with calomel and iodoform, and the internal administration of mercury as before. When the sore is small, the scraping may be done with a small sharp spoon, after application of a 20 per cent, solution of cocaine to the ulcerated surface. If it be large, a general anaesthetic, such as nitrous oxide, may be required. {l>) General Treatment.—A much debated question in the treatment of primary syphilis is whether at this stage mercury should be given internally or whether it should be withheld until secondary symptoms make their appearance. In this country many surgeons commence mercurial treatment directly the diagnosis is made, but abroad most of the leading syphilographers condemn the use of mercury in syphilis before the appearance of secondary symptoms, unless under special circumstances, and with this view we are in the main disposed to agree. The reasons given are that the adminis- tration of full doses of mercury at this stage has a depressing effect upon the patient, so that, when it is required for the treatment of secondary symptoms, it cannot be pushed as far as is desirable: and also that the diagnosis of a syphilitic chancre is seldom beyond the possibility of a mistake, and the patient may thus be salivated or submitted to a tedious and prolonged course of mercury unnecessarily. In certain cases, however, it is advisable to administer mercury during the primary stage, so as to produce its full physiological action. This is called for in the rapidly spreading chancres referred to above, and also in those situated where the loss of tissue they cause may do serious harm, as for example upon the eyelid; in married people and in the case of chancres on doctors' fingers it is advisable to employ it so as to avoid the risk of infecting others. According to some, it should be employed in the case of women infected during pregnancy. Where patients are extremely nervous and frightened, it is also well to give mercury in small doses during the primary stage, but not necessarily in sufficient quantity to produce its physiological effects. During the primary stage the use of iron is of great value, and one of the best preparations is Blaud's, given in doses of 5 to 10 grains three times daily immediately after food; it is best administered in the form of capsules or cachets. Benefit is often experienced in very cachectic subjects from the use of Easton's syrup two or three times a day, in doses of half a drachm in a wineglassful of water. Secondary Syphilis.—{a) General Treatment.—In the treatment of the secondary stage the principal drug employed is mercury, and the chief points to be considered are in connection with its administration. During the secondary period, whilst mercury is being taken, the following points should be attended to. (i) The diet should be carefully ordered, only plain and nourishing food being taken, whilst all indigestible matters, spices and condiments should be avoided.