TUMOURS. 26o through at the base. If this be done where growth has ceased and cartilage does not exist, recurrence will not take place. The only danger of this operation is the possibility of sepsis. In former days, before anti- septic treatment was employed, many patients after operation developed a suppurative osteomyelitis, and either died or had to lose the limb; hence in operating the greatest care must be taken in the aseptic management of the wound. The small ivory exostoses when growing on the outside of the skull are seldom of sufficient size to require operation. Their removal is always difficult and dangerous because, owing to their density, the force required to chip them off sometimes fractures the skull. Hence it is as a rule best to leave them alone, but in some cases, where they are pressing on the eye, ear or other important parts, or growing internally, it may be necessary to undertake their removal. If the growth be comparatively small it may be possible to remove it by using a large trephine: this is made to encircle the tumour, and by cutting through normal bone all around, the exostosis and the base from which it springs can be removed entire. In the larger growths this is however impossible, and the only way that offers a chance of getting them away without very great trouble is to drill a number of holes through the base of the tumour in all directions by means of a dental engine, and then to join these together with a saw and thus complete the removal; in the ear it is sometimes possible, owing to their brittleness, to break them off by means of a sudden smart tap, after their base has been drilled. Attempts to remove them by repeated applications of sulphuric acid, as is sometimes recommended, should never be made: it is far better to adopt one of the methods above recommended. If the growth be very diffuse, and must be removed, it may require more than one operation for its satisfactory treatment. Bony growths which do not properly come under the heading of osteoma are also met with elsewhere; among these may be mentioned the bony growths which occur from irritation in the adductors of the thigh in riders, or in the deltoid muscle in soldiers; they will be dealt with later. MALIGNANT FORMS.—The Sarcomata form fleshy tumours com- posed of embryonic connective tissue. They are rounded, nodular and generally have a spurious capsule, which is composed of sarcomatous tissue and must be looked upon as an integral part of the growth itself They vary in malignancy, but they all possess to a greater or less extent a decidedly malignant character. They may occur wherever there is con- nective tissue, and are most frequently met with in bones, fasciae, muscles, skin, the breast, the testicle, the uterus, the kidney, the parotid, the nerves and so forth. The cells vary in character and the sarcomata are therefore sub-divided into a number of varieties according to the general character of the cells composing them. In addition to the cells there is a certain amount of inter-cellular substance which varies in degree and stage of organization according to the class of the tumour. The consistence and