CHAPTER VIII. WOUNDS. TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. CLASSIFICATION OF INCISED WOUNDS.—There are two great classes of incised wounds, those made by the surgeon, and those inflicted before the patient is seen by him. Wounds made by the surgeon may be again subdivided into:—(a) those made through unbroken skin and not communicating with mucous surfaces; (/>) those made in connection with previously existing sinuses or suppurating deposits, or communicating with some mucous canal. The importance of this subdivision is that, while it is a comparatively easy matter to exclude micro-organisms from wounds of the first class, it is either very difficult or altogether impossible to do so in the second variety; the treatment in the latter must therefore be directed towards minimising the ill effects produced by the organisms after they have gained entrance. WOUNDS MADE BY THE SURGEON THROUGH UNBROKEN SKIN. It is clear from what has gone before that the point to be aimed at here is healing by first intention. If this be obtained, there is rapid recovery and a delicate scar is left, which later on becomes practically invisible, while the general septic conditions or the local inflammatory troubles which may occur if union by first intention be not obtained, are avoided. The conditions which favour healing by first intention have already been referred to (see p. 150); of these, one that is absolutely essential is the asepsis of the wound; in addition to this, however, care has to be taken to bring the edges of the wound into accurate apposition. Besides this, causes of unrest, such as movement, irritation by the dressings, etc., must be avoided. We shall consider these latter conditions first. Apposition of the Edges.—The edges of the wound must be in accurate apposition; if they are not in contact with one another, an interval is left which becomes filled up with blood clot, and although healing by blood clot will occur if the wound be aseptic, it is not so good as union by first