TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. are introduced into the wound, he will be sure eventually to go wrong. A preliminary bacteriological training is of incalculable advantage, for with it the manipulations necessary to secure asepsis become automatic, and the surgeon is thus enabled to concentrate his undivided attention upon the operation. Treatment where Sepsis occurs.—When, in spite of all efforts to prevent it, sepsis occurs, its onset is indicated by pain and throbbing in the wound. The reactionary temperature commonly met with after severe aseptic operations, instead of falling in from 24 to 36 hours, continues to rise, and all the symptoms of pyrexia set in. Whenever this febrile con- dition is established, the wound should be at once examined, and if red, tender, or swollen, it should be opened up, at any rate at the most dependent spot, and proper drainage provided. As a rule it is not advisable to wash out a wound in this condition, although it is done by many surgeons. Washing out a septic wound with antiseptics will not arrest the infection, arid the only effect it can produce is to irritate and damage the inflamed tissues, and possibly to precipitate, or at any rate to facilitate, the entrance of micro-organisms into the system. Provided there be a free exit for pus, it is best not to wash or squeeze out or in any way irritate the wound. The only exception to this rule is in the case of large cavities, where there is reason to believe that the symptoms are mainly due to septic intoxication, that is to say, absorption of poisonous chemical products and not true general bacterial infection. Under such circumstances it is well to wash away the septic fluid in the wound with sterilised water or with some very weak antiseptic solution, such as 1-4000 or 6000 sublimate solution, not with the view of killing bacteria, but of removing the poisonous chemical products which are being absorbed, and are producing the symptoms. It is well to go on with the antiseptic dressings already described (see p. 169), but they should now be changed daily. Where no general infection has occurred, or is about to take place, the temperature falls, and the other general and local conditions improve within a few hours after a free exit has been provided for the discharge. In the course of a few days suppuration ceases and the discharge becomes serous, and if everything goes well, the drainage tube may be left out in from 10 to 14 days. Where, on the other hand, the temperature keeps up and the other symptoms continue, the suspicion is aroused either that there is some recess in the wound from which the discharge is not properly escaping, or that some general infection is occurring. In either case the wound must be thoroughly and completely opened up and cleansed, all recesses must be freely exposed, and, especially where there is not sufficient retention of discharge to account for the general symptoms, the wound should be thoroughly sponged out with undiluted carbolic acid. In some cases the surgeon may even venture to scrape away the granulation tissue with a sharp spoon, but in doing this there is always a certain risk of forcing organisms into the circulation. If it be done, one of Barker's