163 TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. Disinfection of Instruments.—The purification of instruments is carried out as follows. After an operation they are thoroughly washed and cleaned by means of a nail-brush, immersed in a 1-20 carbolic acid solution, dried and put into a press with glass shelves where they can be kept free from dust. If they have been used for a septic case, they should be boiled before being put away, otherwise the instrument case itself may become contaminated. If this be done, there is not much disinfection required immediately before use, and it will suffice in the majority of cases to immerse the instruments in a 1-20 carbolic acid solution for half an hour or longer before the commencement of the operation. Where there is not sufficient time for prolonged immersion of the instruments in the carbolic acid solution, or if the nature of the case demands extra precautions, they may be disinfected by dipping them for a few minutes in undiluted carbolic acid, and subsequently immersing them in a 1-20 carbolic solution. This can readily be done by pouring out a sufficient quantity of the pure acid into a jar or dish, dipping the instruments into it, and then transferring them to the 1-20 solution. This latter method is also the best where an instrument is required in a hurry during the progress of an operation, and where there is no time to boil it or to immerse it in the lotion for a sufficient length of time. Boiling instruments is doubtless a very certain method of disinfecting them, and is to be strongly recommended where it can be carried out, and where the instruments are entirely metal. It is very readily done by placing them in a sheet or bag of gauze, and immersing them in a vessel of boiling water to which a little soda has been added. Special ' sterilisers' are sold for the purpose; they are provided with a perforated tray which, like the sheet of gauze, enables the instruments to be removed easily when they have been boiled for a sufficient length of time. They should be kept at the boiling point for at least ten minutes, and should then be transferred to the 1-20 carbolic solution. Prolonged boiling of this kind is apt to destroy the cutting edge of steel instruments, and for them pure carbolic acid or a prolonged immersion in the 1-20 solution is preferable. It is also well, when steel instruments are to be disinfected by boiling, not to immerse them until the water is actually boiling; this avoids dis- coloration. Preparation of Ligatures.—The disinfection of the catgut, silk, silver wire, or other materials used for ligatures or stitches, may be effected by immersion in carbolic acid. It may be taken as certain that immersion in a 1-20 watery carbolic solution for from 24 to 48 hours will destroy any organisms to which the fluid has free access. Our rule is therefore to keep these materials constantly in this solution, which is renewed every three or four days on account of the loss of carbolic acid, and we do not use any material that has not been soaking for at least a week. As soon as the supply is seen to be running short a fresh quantity is put in, so as to always have enough ready for use. Some surgeons boil their silk before