2 INFLAMMATION. and the process known as resolution may set in. That is to say, the exuded material becomes broken up and removed by the lymphatic vessels, the migrated corpuscles either re-enter the blood-vessels or the lymphatics, or break down and are carried away in the form of debris. The dilated vessels also gradually regain their tone, and ultimately the part resumes its normal appearance and structure. On the other hand, in very severe inflammation, the stasis and exudation may be so great as to lead to gangrene of the part even at this early stage. Results at later period.—In most cases inflammation that has gone on to this degree proceeds further, and the tissues gradually disappear as the result of the inflammatory process, the original tissue being replaced by what is known as granulation tissue. This is composed, in the first instance, of round cells and embryonic blood-vessels. The inflammation thus passes on to the stage of granulation, and when this stage is reached one of three things may happen. In the first place, the irritant may cease to act, in which case the process subsides and retrogressive changes take place. The cells which compose the granulation tissue then develop into fibrous tissue, and the blood-vessels diminish in number and become blocked by a process analogous to arteritis, but the ultimate result is the formation of scar tissue, and not restoration of the part to its normal condition, as is the case in resolution. More usually, however, where inflammation has gone on to the stage of granulation, we have to do with a more persistent cause of inflammation, and therefore suppuration results. Thirdly, where the in- flammatory process affects the skin or mucous membrane, and is not very violent, the result known as ulceration follows. SYMPTOMS.—We shall here deal with the early stages of inflam- mation, before suppuration or the other processes above enumerated have supervened. At this early stage the symptoms of inflammation are partly local and partly general. The local changes are diffuse redness of the part, most intense at the centre, and swelling, which sometimes reaches a marked degree, and varies in character at different parts, being hard and brawny towards the centre of the inflammatory area, and soft and oede- matous towards its margins. There is also heat, and, lastly, severe pain, which is usually of a throbbing character, being worse where the inflam- mation affects dense tissues and when the part assumes the dependent position. The general symptoms of inflammation vary with its situation, extent, and nature, and present two great types. In the first type of inflammatory fever, which is termed the sthenic fever, there is headache and anorexia, the temperature is high, running up rapidly to 103° or 104°, the pulse becomes rapid, varying from 100 to 112, and is full, not easily compressible, and quite regular. The tongue is furred, white and moist, the skin is hot and dry, the bowels are constipated, and the urine is scanty and high-coloured. If delirium be present, as it very often is, it is of a noisy and violent character; in fact, the general type of this form of inflammatory fever is that of strong reaction, and the patient does not