6o ULCERATION. the healing of the wound, it is well to defer the operation till the ulcer has closed, so as to avoid any risk whatever of sepsis occurring in connec- tion with the operation on the veins. The treatment of varicose veins will subsequently be referred to ; it consists essentially in the removal of portions of the prominent veins, especially the points of junction of several of their branches. (7) Callous Ulcer.—Here the obstacle to healing is the callous condi- tion of the surrounding parts, and hence our first effort must be directed to getting rid of this condition. As a matter of fact, if the limb is put at rest, the leg elevated, and the sore rendered aseptic, this callous condition will subside comparatively quickly, and in the course of two or three weeks the sore will present a healthy appearance and the healing process will begin. Where it is desirable to expedite matters, or where the thickening of the tissues does not disappear as quickly as usual, other plans, which have been referred to on page 45, may be employed, and of these the best is the application of a blister, provided always that the kidneys are in a healthy condition. The callous edges having been got rid of, and the sore having assumed a healthy condition, skin-grafting should be employed in the manner already described (see p. 50); and should varicose veins be present, they should be operated on after the wound has healed, but before the patient is allowed to walk about. For the " ambulatory" treatment of callous ulcer, see page 56. (8) Pressure Ulcer.—A pressure ulcer occurring in the centre of a callosity is sometimes very obstinate in healing, and the best treatment is to cut away the callosity which surrounds the ulcer, and to scrape the surface of the latter. In this way a shallow healthy sore is left, which heals comparatively quickly. Of course the sore should be disinfected, and the limb elevated and kept at rest in the usual manner. Where a pres- sure ulcer occurs in the foot, it is perhaps well to skin-graft it, in order to avoid the thin scar which results from the natural process of healing, and which is very apt to remain tender or break down subsequently; and when the patient first begins to walk about, the boot should be excavated at the part corresponding to the scar, so that pressure does not tell, for a time at any rate, on the seat of the previous ulcer. (9) Paralytic Ulcer.—Here it is often very difficult to obtain healing, and stimulant applications should be employed. In the early stage the cyanide gauze should be applied directly to the raw surface, after the ulcer has been disinfected. The gauze is very useful as a means of inducing granulation. After granulation has occurred the best dressing is perhaps boracic lint soaked in balsam of Peru. This dressing is antiseptic, and at the same time possesses a markedly stimulant action; it should be changed daily. When healing is well in progress the quarter-strength boracic ointment (see p. 48) should be substituted. The position of the limb, rest, the administration of nourishing diet, etc., must of course be attended to. Besides this the application of spirits of wine to the parts around