WOUNDS. 172 appear at the edge within a few hours after the operation; but this very quickly dries up and does not form a cultivating medium for the growth of the bacteria, because the double cyanide salt is a powerful inhibitory agent against their growth, and, being only slightly soluble, is not washed outi by the first blood which passes through the dressing. All that is necessary is to sprinkle some iodoform over tjie soiled portion, to apply fresh salicylic wool outside this, and to secure it by another bandage. At the same time, if the discharge be very free at first, it may be desirable to change the dressing after 24 or 48 hours. (3) When a drainage tube has been inserted, the dressings must be changed at the end of four or five days in order to remove it; if the wound be large, the discharge through the tube may be sufficiently copious to necessitate a change of dressing at the end of 24 or 48 hours. (4) If after the operation the temperature rise and remain over 100° F.. for more than 24 hours, or if there be much pain, the dressing must be removed to see if anything is wrong with the wound. How to change them.—When the dressings are changed at the end of about ten days, the wound is usually soundly healed; the stitches are then taken out, and a small piece of gauze or salicylic wool is fixed over the line of incision for a few days by means of collodion. In changing dressings it is well to employ a 1-2000 sublimate solution to wash the wound, except in operations in the axilla, the perineum, or about the pubes, etc., where, on account of the proximity of hairy parts, it is advisable to wash the skin around the wound thoroughly with a 1-20 carbolic lotion. The region of the wound should be surrounded by towels wrung out of the antiseptic solution, so that, should the patient move, the blankets do not come into contact with the wound, the instruments, or the surgeon's hands. The latter are disinfected in a 1-20 carbolic acid lotion, and sub- sequently in the 1-2000 sublimate solution. Salicylic wool is a very good material with which to wash the part, and in doing this it is not necessary to rub the wound. If the latter has not quite healed, or if, on account of tension upon the edges, it seems advisable to leave any of the stitches in place for some time longer, a dressing similar to that put on immedi- ately after operation (see p. 169) may be re-applied, the only difference being that the sponges need not be again employed. In breast cases, for instance, where a large amount of skin has been taken away, it is often advisable to change the first dressing before the end of the first week, in order to remove some of the stitches and clean the axilla; the remaining stitches may then be left for another week, when they can be removed. After-progress of the Wound.—In operations conducted with all the precautions recommended above, it will be found that neither local nor constitutional disturbance follows. In the case of a very severe opera- tion, the temperature is at first sub-normal, the patient suff"ers from a