DIFFUSE CELLULITIS. 29 out the tube; but if the discharge is still considerable, or purulent, the drainage tube should be continued. At any rate, a tube long enough to extend from the orifice of the skin to the entrance of the abscess cavity should be retained, as otherwise the skin wound is very apt to close with great rapidity, and the fluid will then be retained in the interior, and lead to the reproduction of the abscess. There are various points in regard to acute abscesses in various situations which will be referred to in their proper place, such as the line of incision to be made, and the various difficulties that may arise in opening them. Suffice it here to recall attention to the essential point in the opening of the abscess, namely, the thorough breaking down of all septa which may shut off diverticula which would not otherwise be properly evacuated. General Treatment.—The general treatment of acute abscess is the same as that described under acute inflammation (see p. 13). As soon as convalescence begins, nourishing diet, fresh air, stimulants, etc., are necessary. Diffuse Cellulitis.—The other form of acute suppuration in the cellular tissue to which we have already referred, is diffuse cellulitis, where the pus is not contained in a well-defined abscess cavity, but infil- trates the tissues. This condition is due to the presence of the strepto- coccus pyogenes. Ssrmptoms.—Not only is there infiltration of the tissues with pus, but death of some portions of them very often occurs, and these dead portions come away afterwards as sloughs. The local inflammatory con- dition spreads with great rapidity, the skin becomes red, brawny, and, as suppuration occurs, boggy, but it is very difficult to make out any distinct fluctuation, at any rate in the earlier stages. Later on, however, it is not uncommon to find that, in addition to the infiltration of the tissues with pus, there is somewhere or other a distinct fluctuating cavity. The infection tends to spread along the lymphatic vessels, so that from quite an early period red lines are seen extending up the arm, for these abscesses most commonly occur in the fore-arm and hand, in connection with scratches upon the hand or fingers. As the infective material spreads along the lymphatic vessels, it not infrequently bursts through their walls at various parts, leading to fresh patches of diffuse cellulitis, and thus to fresh areas of inflammation, and it is not uncommon for the condition to terminate in pyaemia. The general symptoms accompanying this local condition are very grave, presenting the characters of asthenic inflammatory fever, already referred to (see p. 3). Treatment—Local.—The local treatment must be prompt and radical, and should consist in giving free and early exit to the pus and sloughs. A small incision in this case would do no good whatever, because the pus is infiltrating the tissues, and could not escape through such an opening. It is absolutely essential that the incision should be free, and should extend