2l6 WOUNDS. Bovril and Valentine's meat juice, should be given. If possible, about four pints of milk should be given in the twenty-four hours, and about a pint and a half of strong beef tea, with a teaspoonful of Bovril or Valentine's meat juice every four hours. The so-called "Chronic Pyoeniia."—In some cases a condition occurs known as chronic pyaemia, in which acute abscesses form all over the body. This affection is not a true pyaemia, that is to say, it is not of embolic origin; it is rather a condition where the organisms are floating free in the blood and attack various weak spots throughout the body. Treatment.—Any external abscess will of course require to be opened. Where the joints become inflamed they must be fixed by a splint, and if there be much pain they must be opened freely and a drainage tube inserted, so as to provide for the free escape of the discharge. The patient is usually not in a condition to bear any more severe procedure; besides, free drainage of the joint often suffices for recovery, leaving, no doubt, more or less stiff"ness behind. Whether the injection of antistreptococcic serum will be of use is a point which can hardly be determined in the present state of our knowledge, but it is well to bear it in mind, and as at any rate it does no harm, recourse may be had to it. For details as to dose, method of injection, etc., see p. 183. ERYSIPELAS. Erysipelas may be defined as a febrile disease caused by a strepto- coccus, and characterised by a well-defined spreading redness of the skin. Symptoms.—The disease usually commences from four days to a week after the operation or injury, but it may occur as early as the first or the second day. There are usually certain premonitory symptoms preceding the actual attack, such as malaise, headache, loss of appetite, and a feeling of tension and pain about the wound; this may be followed by a rigor. In other cases the disease may begin suddenly with a severe rigor, without any premonitory symptoms. However the attack may be ushered in, it is followed by a rapid rise of temperature to about 104° F.; there is usually only a single rigor. Along with the rise of temperature there is headache, and there may be some nausea or vomiting, a rapid soft pulse, foul tongue, great thirst, scanty urine, diminution of the dis- charge from the wound, and swelling of the neighboui'ing lymphatic glands, to which there may be red lines running from the wound. Occasionally there is somewhat furious delirium. In from ten to twenty- four hours after the rigor a dark red or crimson blush, sharply marked off from the surrounding parts, appears around the wound, and the reddened portion is somewhat swollen. The redness increases and usually spreads along the course of the lymphatic vessels, that is to say, towards the trunk. The margin of the rash can be felt as a distinct raised ridge. Where the tissues are lax, as in the eyelids or the scrotum, the swelling may be very