TUMOURS COMPOSED OF THE MORE COMPLEX TISSUES. 265 endothelium. The great majority of these venous naevi are congenital (in fact both ivinds of nfevi generally are), and they may disappear as the child grows older, or they may increase in size; this is more frequently the case with the subcutaneous or cavernous form. Sometimes they undergo cystic degeneration, the communication between the blood spaces and the vessels being obliterated, and the former then undergoing dilata- tion, so that cysts of variable size are formed. Treatment.—The treatment of naevi may be divided into (i) excision, and (2) the use of methods which aim at setting up inflammation in the vessels so as to procure first thrombosis and ultimately complete atrophy of the vascular growth. (a) Excision.—Of excision it may be at once said that it is certainly the best possible method of treatment, and that it should be adopted in all cases where it is possible to carry it out. It presents the following great advantages over all other methods. It is certain and rapid in its results, the affection being cured permanently within a fortnight; there is no pain attending the after-treatment if the wound be, as it should invariably be, kept aseptic; no frequent change of dressings is called for, and there is not, therefore, the liability to septic infection which is almost inevitable where the opposite is the case. The cases that are most frequently met with in practice are those where there is a moderate sized nsevus of the capillary variety, with or without affection of the subcutaneous struc- tures, and this form of the affection is certainly best treated by enclosing it in an oval incision well free of the growth and cleanly excising it. A large nsevus may not be suited for excision either because its size renders the operation formidable from loss of blood, as may be the case in infants, or from the difficulty that may be met with in bringing the edges together subsequently. In the former case a good plan is to adopt one of the methods to be described immediately for procuring thrombosis, and when a sufficient amount of the tumour has thus been obliterated the rest may be excised. In the latter case most superficial ngevi can be satisfactorily treated by excision followed by undermining of the skin so as to secure apposition of the cut edges. Where the area is too extensive for this, Thiersch's skin grafting is preferable to the scarring that inevitably follows upon other methods. Even on exposed parts the scar left by the opera- tion is not so noticeable as that which results from other modes of treatment. As long as the ngevus is superficial it will very rarely be found too extensive for treatment by excision, especially if Thiersch's grafting be employed; several partial operations may be required. Where the surgeon has to deal with a deep-seated cavernous ntevus, which is fairly limited, and does not involve any important structure, complete excision should also be attempted. There is no particular danger in excising a naevus. It should be done strictly antiseptically, and if care be taken to cut well beyond the tumour, there is no bleeding of importance, the vessels actually dilated being those within the growth