ULCERATION. 56 the necessary time, and the question then arises, what is best to be done ? In the first place, one cannot expect to cure the ulcer, though in some rare cases the ulcer does heal; in the majority, however, even though it may be somewhat improved, it remains open. Nevertheless a good deal may be done to alleviate the patient's troubles and to prevent the further spread of the sore. In treating out-patients it is impossible to get rid of the dependent position of the limb and the bad results it produces, but these may be mitigated by giving as much support to the circulation as possible; the septic condition of the wound can also be got rid of. These, then, are the two points which are to be aimed at in the "ambulatory" treatment of ulcers of the leg—support of the circulation and asepsis of the sore. The asepsis of the sore is carried out on the lines already described (see p. 46), and the method need not be repeated here. As to the support of the circulation, the most popular method is by the use of Martin's rubber bandage, the mode of application of which has been already detailed (see p. 45). Still better than Martin's rubber bandage, and what we would advise in the first instance, is the method introduced by Unna, and known as Unna's bandage. This is a bandage stiffened with gelatine, and its advantages are that the patient cannot riieddle with the sore, and that it gives a uniform elastic support without unnecessary pressure; it is applied in various ways. The method we prefer is as follows. In the first place, the sore and skin around are thoroughly disinfected, and a dressing of protective and boracic lint applied. Later on weak boracic ointment may be substituted, or protective and gauze may be used for a few days. After the sore has been properly purified, a mixture consisting of 40 parts of water, 40 of glycerine, 10 of gelatine, and some oxide of zinc to make it stiffer, is applied to the outside of the dressing. This material becomes solid at the ordinary temperature, but is readily liquefied by gentle heat. The liquefied material is rubbed over the outside of the dressing, and a double-headed bandage is put on, beginning over the centre of the ulcer, one roll going downwards towards the toes and the other upwards towards the knee. This bandage is applied smoothly and not tightly, the melted mixture is then rubbed into it, and before it sets another bandage dipped in hot water is applied over it. This arrangement dries in a very short time and forms a firm, elastic, and at the same time not too heavy support to the limb, and thus some of the disadvantages of other dressings, more especially the irregularity of the pressure which often occurs in a self- applied Martin's bandage, are avoided. If possible, Unna's bandage should be put on early in the day before the leg has swollen from walking about. The dressing should be changed according to the amount of discharge present; usually at first every other day, but, as the discharge diminishes, at less frequent intervals. It is readily removed by putting the leg in a tub of warm water so as to melt the gelatine, and the bandages can then be unwound quite easily. In cases where the ulcer has healed the