WOUNDS. 1/8 The plan of undermining the skin has already been mentioned (see p. 157), but we may here give fuller details of the method. The best way is to proceed as follows. In small wounds, the knife is carried between the superficial fat and the deep fascia; in extensive ones, it should be swept between the deep fascia and the muscle, and by this means the skin and fascia are raised from the deeper parts for a considerable distance around the wound. The undermining should be most extensive opposite the shortest diameter of the oval, and should be carried on until the edges of the wound can easily be brought into contact by pulling upon them. In raising these flaps, great care must be taken to direct the edge of the knife towards the deeper parts and not towards the skin; failure to observe this precaution is apt to result in scoring of the flap, and, as the blood- vessels which supply the skin ramify in the subcutaneous fat, the blood supply to the edges of the wound might be cut off and sloughing might ensue. The freeing of the edges of the wound by undermining must be carried out sufficiently widely to allow them to come together without endangering the circulation in the flaps. If it has not been done sufficiently freely, the flaps will become white on putting in the stitches, and after waiting a little the circulation will not be restored; it will, therefore, be necessary in such a case to carry the undermining further, when the flaps may be brought together without being permanently blanched. If at first there be a little whiteness in the immediate vicinity of the stitch, it will disappear in a few minutes when the tension is not too great. Deep stitches and sometimes button stitches should be used so as to relax the edges in order that there may be no tension upon the actual line of union. Where the wounds are angular, or quadrilateral, or irregular in shape, they require for their closure one of the plastic operations proper. The A B B f B b I I I . C D d c C D d Fig. 56. Fig. 57. Fig. 56.—Plastic Operations. Htrw to fill up a guadritateral defect of moderate size. By carrying incisions horizontally outwards from B lo b and from D to d, a. flap BDdb, can be dissected up and pulled inwards so that the edge BD comes into con- tact with and is sutured to AC. The incisions Bb and Dd should be longer in proportion to A B and C D than are here represented. Fig. 57.—Plastic Operations. How to fill up a quadrilateral defect of large size. Here, by a similar procedure to that shown in Fig. 56, a flap is dissected up on each side of the defect. The two flaps are then pulled inwards to the middle line, and A C is sutured to B D. simplest of these is perhaps a small quadrilateral defect; this is very easily filled up by making incisions which extend the corresponding sides of the parallelogram straight into the healthy skin on one side, that is to say, in Fig. 56, the side AB is extended to b and CD to d. The flap BDdb, which ought generally to be about double the length of the side