AN/ESTHETICS. the apparatus figured on page 88, and direclly the irregular stertor and twitching appear, an Ormsby's inhaler, fully charged with an ounce of ether, is rapidly sub- stituted, without permitting any fresh air to be breathed ; the spasm caused by the excessive strength of ether vapour is sometimes very pronounced, but will quickly pass off, and the patient will rapidly come under the influence of the ether. Except in the hands of an adept, this use of the Ormsby's inhaler is difficult, and even when the Clover is employed, a good deal of practice is required before uniformly satisfactory results are obtained. The point to be aimed at when using the latter apparatus is the turning on of the ether at such a rate, that a full dose is being inhaled at the precise moment when the muscular twitching, etc., due to the nitrous oxide, are first observed. It is claimed for these combined methods that they are far more pleasant for the patient, as he is unconscious of the irritating and disagreeable taste and smell of the ether ; that they are much more rapid, induction only occupying about two minutes as compared with four to six minutes when ether alone is used ; that to a great extent they do away with, or considerably modify the excitement and struggling, and so enable us to dispense with the help of others in restraining the patient. That substantial advantages are to be gained by adopting one or other of these plans, is sufficiently proved by the fact, that there are probably but few anaesthetists of the present day who do not employ them, or who habitually use ether alone. Ether is also frequently used in dental work for the purpose of intensifying the action of nitrous oxide (etherizing the nitrous oxide). The Clover's apparatus may be used for this purpose, and the procedure is practically the same as already detailed, except, perhaps, that the patient is allowed to get more fully under the influence of the nitrous oxide before the ether is turned on, and the ether is turned on more rapidly. It is for these cases that the large Clover (Fig. 23) is particularly Fig. 23.—Clover's Large Nitrous Oxide and Ether Apparatus (modified). A, Facepiece; c, Expiratory valve; C, Ether chamber ; a, Stopcock for bringing ether chamber into connection with the tube £>, which in its turn communicates with the face- piece. ^ is a reservoir bag which may also be used for nitrous oxide alone, being filled with gas through the tap, d. When it is desired to administer ether and nitrous oxide in combination, llie bag is filled with gas, the tap a is turned on, and the amount of ether supplied is regulated by means of the tap d. useful, as the odour of ether can be more perfectly shut off from the facepiece, and does not diffuse itself into the room. I believe myself, that in this use of ether the local effect of the vapour upon the buccal mucous membrane, is largely responsible for the prolongation of the anaesthesia. C A'