222 WOUNDS. considerable number of cases, and this is the first remedy that should be employed. An injection of anti-tetanic serum (which is the serum of horses, or other animals which have been rendered immune to tetanus) must be introduced in a large dose in the first instance, and must be repeated at intervals of from 12 to 24 hours, the exact amount being determined by the effect produced. It is well to begin with 20 c.c, and to repeat the dose in from 12 to 24 hours, according to its effect on the spasms. This should be again repeated every 12 or 24 hours if necessary. The effect of the serum is sometimes very remarkable, but it is not immediate, and the spasms may recur after its use so severely as to require the adminis- tration of chloroform; they usually recur, however, at longer intervals and with less severity. Treatment of the Wound.—In the early stage also, the wound should be thoroughly cleaned out. We do not know the exact modus operandi of the tetanus bacillus, though it is seldom limited to the wound, but nevertheless it is well, in the first place, to give the patient chloroform, thoroughly open up the wound and wash away all the decomposing material, and then to clip away any gangrenous shreds, thoroughly sponge the wound out with pure carbolic acid, and stuff it with cyanide gauze sprinkled with iodoform. After this has been done the dressing need not, as a rule, be disturbed for two or three •days, so that the patient is saved the pain and the risk of convulsions involved in attention to the wound. Amputation is frequently performed in cases of wounds of the extremities, but, as the disease has generally established itself in the system, the operation is, as a rule, quite useless, and may be hurtful from the pain and disturbance it causes. If anything at all is to be effected by local treatment, as much will be done by thorough dis- infection of the wound as by amputation, and this with much less risk to the patient. Drugs.—^Whether the serum be injected or not, it is necessary to administer sedatives, and the one most in vogue is chloral. It should be given in large doses, so that in the course of 24 hours an adult shall have as much as 150 or even 200 grains. Care must of course be taken not to poison the patient with the drug, as has undoubtedly happened in some cases, but usually the amount mentioned can be administered in the course of 24 hours without risk. When there is inability to swallow, the drug may be administered by the rectum. Bearing in mind also the fact that the slightest noise or disturbance is very likely to bring on a spasm, the patient should be completely isolated. He should be placed in a room which is thickly carpeted, and complete silence should be maintained, and it is well to wrap up all the exposed portions of the body in cotton wool, so as to avoid any irritation to the surface of the skin from the impact of cold air, etc. When the spasms are very severe and threaten, for example, either to produce a condition of dangerous hyperpyrexia, or to cause death from ■obstruction to the respiration, chloroform should be at once administered.