CHAPTER I. INFLAMMATION. DEFINITION.—Inflammation may be defined as the first series of changes that occurs in a tissue as the result of an injury, provided always that this has not been of sufficient violence to at once destroy the vitality of the part. Whenever an injury is done to a part, whether it be of a chemical or a mechanical nature, a certain series of changes at once cbmmences there, and this series of changes, so long as it is of an exudative or destructive character, we call inflammation. The amount of inflammatory change in the tissue will depend upon the length of time that the process goes on, and the severity and result of the inflammation will be in proportion to the length of time that the irritant exerts its influence, and the intensity with which it acts. Inflammation is divided into acute and chronic inflam- mation. ACUTE INFLAMMATION. PATHOLOGY.—It is only necessary here to enumerate the changes that take place in the tissues during inflammation. They consist in the first instance of dilatation of the blood-vessels, preceded in some cases by con- traction. This dilatation affects more especially the small arteries and capillaries, but also to some extent the veins. Results at early period.—In the early stages the circulation of the blood is quickened, but slowing of the blood-stream soon becomes evident, until, in severe cases, complete stasis or coagulation of the blood takes place within the vessels at the focus of the inflammation. During this period also, fluid collects in the surrounding tissues, which become much swollen. This fluid is probably in the main derived from the blood plasma, but in part it is lymph retained in the tissues; and not only does fluid accumulate outside the vessels and coagulate there, but the white corpuscles pass out in large numbers through the walls of the veins, and to some extent through those of the capillaries as well. In certain inflammations also, red blood-corpuscles may escape from the blood-vessels. At this stage, if the cause has ceased to act, the inflammatory process may come to a stop, A