4 INFLAMMATION. (a) General blood-lettinir, or the removal of a considerable quantity of blood from the general circulation without any special reference to the seat of the inflammation, probably acts by lowering the action of the heart, producing faintness, and so diminishing the circulation in the affected part. It is also possible that the loss of a considerable quantity of blood may, to some extent, alter the constitution of the remaining blood serum, and render it more active as an anti-bacteric agent. General blood-letting, which was formerly much m vogue, is but seldom prac- tised nowadays. It is best carried out by opening a vein, the one usually chosen being the median basilic vein, which is preferred to others on account of its constant large size and its ready accessibility. The patient should sit upright upon a couch, so that he can lie down immediately if he feels faint; the sitting position has the further advan- tage that the patient will become faint sooner than if he were lying down, and thus a certain safeguard is provided against the withdrawal of too much blood. Venesection should never be practised with the patient in the recumbent position. A bandage is tied in a bow round the upper arm, tight enough to cause engorgement of the veins, but not sufficiently tight to interfere with the arterial flow. The superficial veins are still further distended by making the patient grasp a stick, as by this means the blood is forced from the deep veins into the superficial ones. The surgeon stands in front of the patient, grasps the arm with his left hand, and steadies the median basilic vein by placing the left thumb upon it immediately below the intended seat of puncture, and then, with a sharp double-edged lancet, an oblique incision is made through the skin and the anterior wall of the vein, the posterior wall of which should not be divided. The incision should divide both the skin and the wall of the vein at one cut, and should be oblique to the long axis of the vein. The blood flows in a jet from the incision in the vein, and is received into a graduated porringer. It is generally the custom to sHp the left thumb over the incision in the vein as soon as it is made, so as to prevent bleeding until the porringer is ready. The amount of blood usually with- drawn is from about eight to ten ounces; in former days the patient was bled until he felt faint or until he actually fainted. After a sufficient quantity of blood has been withdrawn, the bandage around the upper arm is removed, a small pad of cyanide gauze placed over the skin incision, and kept in position by a few turns of a figure-of-eight bandage. This suffices to arrest the bleeding, and in a few days the wound will be healed and the circulation re-established. The patient should be directed to keep his arm in a sHng for four or five days. Although this is but a small operation, it is well to perform it with full antiseptic precautions, the patient's skin, the operator's hands and the lancet being thoroughly purified in the ordinary manner;^ in former times patients occasionally lost their lives from septic thrombosis. The operation itself is perfectly easy, but care must be taken ^For the methods of disinfection of skin, instruments, etc., see Chap. VIII.