ACUTE SUPPURATION. 28 through the outer edge of the tube, so as to have a means of pulling out the end of the tube should it slip too far in; this also helps to prevent the tube from slipping in because of the friction of the thread upon the dressing. It may be rendered still more secure by passing some strands of dressing through the loop. Another simple plan is to transfix the end of the drain- age tube by means of a sterilized safety pin. It is well not to push the tube quite down to the bottom of the cavity, more especially if stitched to the opening, because it will be found that the swelling very rapidly goes down, and in the course of twenty-four hours a tube which hardly reached the bottom of the cavity will be pushed up, sometimes for a considerable distance, pulling the skin with it. So long as the tube enters the abscess cavity, or any recess which may require drainage, it is sufficient. The plan of washing out acute abscesses after they have been opened is not one to be recommended. It can do no good whatever in the way of disinfecting the abscess, whilst it is very apt to injure the granulation wall, and thus produce a weak spot in which the organisms, which would otherwise die out, can spread. Similarly, any curetting of the cavity is to be strongly deprecated. This, of course, only appHes to cases of acute abscess, and more especially to those where efficient drainage has been provided. In some cases where the anatomical conditions of the part do not allow of openings being made at the lowest point of the abscess cavity, as, for example, in certain abdominal abscesses, it is necessary to syringe out the cavity frequently, with the object of removing discharges which otherwise would collect and decompose at the lower parts of the wound. This may be done with warm 1-2000 subHmate solution, or, if the discharge be very foul, with sanitas or Condy's fluid. It will be seen when we come to speak of the treatment of chronic abscess that curetting, which is inad- missible in cases of acute abscess, is a valuable method of treatment there. Dressings.—After the drainage tube has been inserted, the cyanide dressings recommended for wounds (see Chap. VIII.) should be used. After-Treatment.—In the after-treatment of an acute abscess, the dressings should, as a rule, be changed on the following day, when it will be found that the swelling has considerably diminished. The drainage tube should not be removed, for if this were done it might be difficult to get it back, but if it is being pushed forward the retaining stitches should be cut and the projecting portion removed. A fresh dressing is then applied, the orifice of the wound and the skin around being previously washed with a 1-2000 sublimate solution. The question as to when the dressing should again be changed will be determined by the amount of discharge. With a small abscess the second dressing can usually be left on for three or four days. Where, however, the abscess was large, and where there is a con- siderable amount of serous oozing, it is well to change the dressing on the following day. In most cases the drainage tube can be left out on the fourth or fifth day, but the point which determines this is the amount of serous discharge present. If small, there need be no hesitation in leaving