TUMOURS COMPOSED OF THE MORE COMPLEX TISSUES. 263 present the same structure as the lymphatic glands, that is to say a delicate reticulum with leucocytes entangled in it. These lymphatic tumours vary in malignancy, but the typical lymphadenoma is a very malignant tumour indeed. It occurs in glands, generally beginning in the neck or the axilla, and very soon the growth of adenoid tissue spreads beyond the gland capsule and infiltrates the tissues around. Adhesion of the gland to the surrounding structures soon occurs, and thus a nodular mass is formed composed of a multitude of glands united by adenoid tissue. Other groups of glands soon become involved and, in addition, tumours composed of lymphatic tissue may appear in parts where this is not normally present, as for example in bones. The disease goes on and is accompanied by increasing pallor of the patient, but not at first by emaciation. Ultimately death takes place from exhaustion. Treatment.—The treatment of lymphadenoma is very unsatisfactory. Excision of a mass of lymphadenomatous glands seldom arrests the progress of the disease, even although the whole of the affected area may apparently be entirely removed. Other glands soon enlarge and recurrence often takes place in the neighbourhood of the primary growth. Hence, except at a very early stage, or where its situation is such that the growth causes much suffering from pressure upon important organs, excision cannot be recommended; even at an early stage it is a procedure of very doubtful value. Various drugs are said to exercise a certain degree of restraining influence on the growth of these lymphadenomata, but the results obtained from their administration are also highly unsatisfactory. The one usually ordered is arsenic, and it is most commonly given in the form of Fowler's solution, beginning with three minims in water three times a day after meals and increasing it by one minim every day or two so long as it can be borne without causing intestinal irritation, a condition which manifests itself by nausea vomiting, colic, and diarrhoea. When this occurs the arsenic should be left off for a few days, and then, when the condition has passed off, the drug may again be given in smaller doses, which should be cautiously increased. Some have advocated the injection of Fowler's solution into the tumour, quantities varying from two to six minims being introduced once a day; there is no convincing proof of the advantage of using the drug in this way. Abroad, phosphide of zinc, in doses of a twentieth of a grain in pill form three times a day, is very often ordered. On the whole, arsenic is probably the most efficacious drug, but permanent benefit can hardly be hoped for from it. Myomata are tumours composed of unstriped muscular fibre, and they are met with where unstriped muscular fibre is normally present, as, for instance, in the uterus, the prostate, the wall of the oesophagus, the stomach, and the intestines. In the latter situation they generally project into the lumen of the gut, forming pedunculated polypi, covered by the lax mucous membrane. Myomata may be single, but they are more often multiple;