ii6 AN/ESTHETICS. nape of the neck, and the other pole is pressed over the cardiac area, along the costo-diaphragmatic margin, or along the course of the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves in the neck, the current being alternately made and broken. (10) Hypodermic injections of ether or brandy (mxxx.) are usually given, but the proceeding is a little illogical. The patient is already suffer- ing from a form of alcoholic poisoning, and, further, the circulation is too depressed to hope for absorption. For this latter reason, too, the hypo- dermic injection of drugs, such as digitaline, is hopeless at this stage. (11) The intra-venous injection of normal salt solution, or rectal injec- tions of the same, appear to be more rational. By altering the blood pressure they might possibly stimulate the circulation. (12) As almost a last resource, acu-puncture or galvano-puncture of the heart itself has been recommended. It has even been suggested that by making a small incision along the margins of the left ribs, the fingers of the hand can be passed in, and direct pressure applied to the heart. I have no personal experience of these measures, but it appears to me that acu-puncture and galvano-puncture not only waste valuable time, but are more likely to do harm than good. The plan of directly pressing on the heart seems to be better justified, theoretically, but I am not aware that it has ever been put to practical proof. Supposing that no response has been obtained to these efforts, the artificial respiration should be persevered in for at least half-an-hour, and of course, if the slightest attempt at natural breathing be made, a longer time should be given to the work. Even after a fairly regular, though feeble respiratory rhythm has been re-established, the greatest care should be taken in moving the patient, as relapses are very apt to occur; he should not, therefore, be left for some hours, and should be kept very warm. After-Treatment. In conclusion, a few words may be said as to the after-treatment of patients recovering from an anaesthetic, as this is a point upon which the anaesthetist is often consulted. Practically, no after-treatment is required for nitrous oxide; the following remarks are intended only for the major anaesthetics. In dressing a case after operation, care should be exercised that the bandages, etc., do not impede the breathing. This is particularly necessary in operations about the head and neck, and it comes within the province of the administrator to see that no trouble arises from this cause. In these cases the bandages should be applied fairly firm, while the neck is fully extended; the pressure will not then be too great when the neck is restored to position. In ordinary cases, the patient may be put back to a warm bed before he completely recovers consciousness. In making the transfer, however.