214 WOUNDS. grow in the thrombus, and gradually cause it to break up. Small portions containing virulent organisms are carried on in the blood stream and become impacted in the lungs, in the case of thrombosis of the systemic veins, or in the liver where the portal veins are the primary source of the mischief. Here probably the same process is repeated, and emboli are again given off and distributed by the arterial circulation, lodging in the kidney, the spleen, the synovial or the serous membranes, etc., where they give rise to- abscesses. These secondary abscesses may also be caused by the growth of streptococci floating free in the blood; they form long chains which coil up into masses which are unable to pass through the smaller vessels, and in which they therefore become impacted. The most important point with respect to treatment, however, is that the disease is generally associated with thrombosis of a vein, and is due to the detachment of portions of clot from the blocked vessel. In its earlier stages at any rate, the disease is essentially a local one, and can be effectively treated by appropriate local measures. Treatment.—(a) Local.—The first point is to search for a thrombosed vein. In the case of the extremities this will probably be the main vein of the limb. If a tender, inflamed and blocked vein can be found in the neighbourhood of the wound, it should at once be cut down upon, traced upwards to a point where it is still patent, a double ligature put on it there, and the vein divided between. Where feasible it is also advisable to dissect out the thrombosed vein and any of its communicating branches which may be similarly affected. If this be done at an early stage, when the patient has only had one or two rigors, the disease may often be completely arrested. The best example of what can be done in the way of checking pyaemia by this method of treatment is seen in cases of disease of the middle ear with secondary thrombosis of the lateral sinus. These particular cases will be dealt with fully under affections of the ear. Besides the removal of the thrombosed vein, which is the most important part of the treatment, and really the only one that promises anything like a radical cure, there are various other points that should be attended to. In the first place, the wound itself should be disinfected, whether the vein has been removed or not. It should be thoroughly opened up, the pus washed away, the whole surface sponged with undiluted carbolic acid, and the granulations scraped away. It is well, before scraping away the granulations, to sponge them with undiluted carbolic acid, so as to- get rid of any organisms lying upon the surface which might be carried by the sharp spoon into the deeper tissues; after the granulations have been removed, the raw surface left should be thoroughly impregnated with the undiluted acid. The wound should then be packed with cyanide gauze- sprinkled with iodoform, or with iodoform gauze, and the ordinary gauze and wool dressing applied outside. The stuffing is renewed at first daily, and then at longer intervals, if the case does well. After a few days, when a fresh layer of granulations has sprung up, the stuffing may be discontinued^