GANGRENE. /4 improvement. Another mode of carrying out the same treatment is to carefully sponge or rub the limb over with two sponge electrodes held a short distance apart, and this is very useful in reducing the pain that is usually present. This method of electrization may also be employed even where gangrene has actually occurred, being then of course used for the relief of pain in the surrounding parts. The application of the current generally produces a somewhat profuse perspiration, and is usually unaccompanied by pain, and an important change, showing that the current is doing good, is that the hands frequently become moist, where previous to its application they were harsh and dry. This, by Raynaud himself, is considered one of the most favourable elements of prognosis. He also points out that when this treatment has been fol- lowed for some days, and improvement has distinctly commenced, certain unpleasant effects may begin to manifest themselves ; for instance, headache, which is intensified by the passage of the current, a painful sensation of constriction in the throat and general excitement. He states that, although these symptoms are not serious, yet, should they occur, it is proper to diminish the number of elements employed. Another very useful form of treatment, and one that may often be advantageously combined with the use of electricity, is careful friction or shampooing. In some cases this, however carefully it is carried out, cannot be borne by the patient; but it will generally be found that, after electricity has been employed for some little time in the manner just recommended, the parts are sufficiently free from tenderness to bear careful shampooing. This should be performed at first by the hand, encased in soft flannel or other suitable gloves. After a time friction by the naked hand, anointed with some simple lubricant, may be substituted. This shampooing may also be used with advantage for those cases where, after repeated attacks of gangrene, the limb has become contracted and anchylosis has occurred. Under these circumstances it is of course used with a different object, namely, to promote the nutrition of the muscles and to facilitate the movement of the various joints. The friction may be carried out immediately after the application of the current, and may be repeated more than once during the day if the patient experience sensible relief from its use. In cases where, during the height of the spasm, there is intense and agonizing pain, considerable relief seems to be afforded by the application of slight cold, and this appears to be more effectual, at any rate in abating the pain, than the use of hot fomentations. For this purpose the extre- mities may be covered loosely with a piece of lint, which is dipped in eau de Cologne, or some similar evaporating spirit, diluted with water. In cases of extremely grave local asphyxia, where gangrene was obviously im- pending, Raynaud has made use of the application of leeches with apparently satisfactory results. This method, however, should not be employed except where the condition is grave, as with it septic complications are not at all