27 CIRCUMSCRIBED ACUTE ABSCESS. as Hilton's method. In this the skin only is incised, the knife is then laid aside, and, with a pair of dressing forceps, or Lister's sinus forceps, which are similar to dressing forceps but with much finer blades, the deeper tissues are carefully bored through until the pus is reached. When the forceps have entered the cavity, the blades are expanded until a sufficient opening has been torn in the tissues to enable a drainage tube to be introduced. As before, the forceps should be pushed into the cavity in all directions and the blades frequently expanded so as to break down septa. When an abscess has been opened in this way, a probe should be passed along the side of the forceps before their withdrawal, so as to act as a guide for the subsequent introduction of the drainage tube. If this be not done, the opening in the fascia through which the forceps entered may be missed, for it is not always in a direct line with the opening in the skin. The simplest way of introducing the drainage tube is to thread it over this probe; the lower end of the tube is grasped with the sinus forceps and gradually pushed into the abscess cavity, and then, whilst the forceps hold the tube in position, the probe is withdrawn. Drainage.—Having opened the cavity of the abscess freely, and having made sure that no diverticula remain, the pus should be gently squeezed out, violence being avoided lest the granulation tissue should be injured. An india-rubber drainage tube, which should always be as large as can be conveniently introduced—the larger the better in the first instance— should then be inserted so that the end of the tube projects freely into the cavity; and this end should be perforated with a number of large openings through which the discharge can escape. Where the abscess cavity is very small, and does not extend to any depth, the use of a drainage tube may be dispensed with, and a narrow strip of gauze, dipped in a 1-2000 sublimate solution, laid between the lips of the incision throughout its entire length. This suffices to keep the wound open sufficiently for drainage, and may be discarded in a few days. Where the abscess is very large, and especially where the pus has burrowed to a considerable distance, it is often necessary to provide a second, or counter opening, to ensure efficient drainage for the pus; this is more especially necessary where the original opening has not been made at the most dependent point of the abscess cavity. To make a counter opening, a pair of sufficiently long dressing forceps are inserted into the cavity with the blades closed, passed down to the most dependent point, and then thrust forcibly outwards so that they project beneath the skin. An incision is then made through the skin over them, the points exposed, the blades separated and made to grasp a drainage tube, which can thus be pulled through the aperture. The outer part of the drainage tube should be cut off flush with the skin, and stitched to it if the patient is under an ancesthetic. This is the simplest plan for securing a drainage tube, and the most certain to keep it in its place. II the patient has not had an anaesthetic, it suffices to pass a loop of thread