249 CHRONIC ABSCESS. away with scissors. Any portions of wall that cannot be treated in this manner must be thoroughly scraped. The best instrument to use for this purpose is Barker's flushing spoon (see Fig. 55), by means of which a constant stream of fluid is kept flowing over the parts, so that the material loosened by the spoon is at once carried away and does not lodge in the recesses of the wound. The fluid used for this irrigation should be warm 1-4000 perchloride of mercury, and when the part has been thoroughly scraped out and the wound completely cleansed from all flakes of cheesy material and pus, a little iodoform and glycerine in the form of a 10 per cent, emulsion, made by adding 10 per cent, of sterilised iodoform ^ to glycerine, or to a i-iooo glycerine and sublimate solution, should be poured into the wound. Two or three drachms of the emulsion, according to the size of the abscess, will suffice, provided that it be applied to the whole of the wall that has been scraped. The wound is then stitched up and pressure applied so as to bring the deeper parts together and to avoid leaving any cavity. When treated in this way, the wound in many cases heals by first intention, and there is no further trouble. Incision and Scraping.—An alternative method is employed when the parts in front of the abscess wall prevent it from being laid freely open, as for example in the case of a psoas abscess, or when it is very necessary to avoid a large scar. Here the utmost that can be done is to make a small opening sufificient to admit the finger or the finger and a sharp spoon, and then to wash out the contents of the abscess by a weak sublimate solution of a strength of about 1-6000, or even as weak as 1-10,000. This is best done by introducing a Barker's flushing spoon into the abscess cavity and then turning the tap so that the fluid flows through it. Of course the opening in the skin must be large enough to allow of the free escape of the fluid by the side of the spoon. The latter is then pushed into all the recesses of the abscess, and when all the fluid part has been in this way evacuated, the instrument is used for scraping the wall. This is done gently but thoroughly, the whole of the wall being gone over systematically, and, in the example before us, namely a psoas abscess, special care is of course taken while scraping in the forward and inward direction, on account of the thin covering that may intervene between the instrument and the peritoneum or the iliac vein. After the abscess has been thoroughly scraped out, and all the flakes have escaped, the spoon is withdrawn, and then, before proceeding further, the cavity is wiped out with fragments of rough sponge. Pieces as large as can be forced into the cavity are used; they not only soak up the sublimate solution which remains, but, by twisting them round, their rough surface scrapes off any tags of cheesy material which still adhere, and in this way the cleansing of the cavity is completed. About half an ounce to an ounce of the sterilised iodoform and glycerine emulsion referred to above is then in- ' The drug may be easily sterilised by keeping it in 1-20 carbolic acid watery solu- tion in a suitable glass bottle.