ERYSIPELAS. great and bullae may form upon the surface; bullae may also appear, although not so frequently, when the trunk or limbs are affected. During the course of the disease there is often albuminuria. After six to eight days there is generally a rapid fall of the temperature which keeps high during the acute period. The constitutional phenomena disappear, the appetite improves, the redness gradually fades and usually dies away by the middle of the second week; finally desquamation occurs. This desquamation is of great importance because it is in the scales of epidermis that the chief source of the erysipelas infection is to be found. In bad cases the disease may end fatally during the second week, from pyrexia and general exhaustion. Varieties.—This disease is fortunately very seldom seen nowadays, and the form usually met with is the mild one which ends in recovery. Formerly a number of other varieties were described, such as wandering ■erysipelas, where a patch of erysipelas appeared in one spot, then died away, and a fresh patch appeared elsewhere, and so on, constitutional symptoms usually showing themselves with the appearance of each fresh patch. The most serious forms of erysipelas were described as phlegmonous and gangrenous erysipelas; these were cases where, along with the symptoms already described, there was suppuration in the subcutaneous tissues, which sometimes took the form of an abscess, but more commonly manifested itself as a diffuse cellulitis; occasionally the skin sloughed together with the •deeper tissues. In these cases the patient very soon passed into a typhoid state and often died. A question much debated at the present time is, whether these gan- grenous and phlegmonous varieties of erysipelas are really due solely to the erysipelas organism, or whether there is a mixed infection, the erysipelas organism growing in the skin, and the streptococcus pyogenes in the deeper structures. The point is not at all settled, the majority of investigators inclining to the opinion that the streptococcus pyogenes and the erysipelas organism are essentially one and the same, being only slightly modified in virulence; according to this theory phlegmonous erysipelas would be regarded as merely a more virulent form than the one that is commonly seen nowadays. In favour of the theory of a mixed infection is the fact that there is frequently diffuse cellulitis without cutaneous erysipelas and vice versa; besides this there are points in the bacteriological history of the organisms which seem to indicate a distinct though very slight difference. Pathology.—The streptococcus which causes the disease spreads in the cutaneous lymphatic vessels, and is found in the skin immediately beyond the edge of the blush; the organisms are always a little in advance of the visible disease. At the edge of the blush the lymphatic vessels are found full not only of micrococci but also of leucocytes, while nearer the centre of the redness the micrococci have disappeared and leucocytes only are found. Erysipelas is, therefore, looked upon as one of the chief examples of phagocytosis, the phagocytes attacking and destroying the