SHOCK. 1.39 remains bad and the patient cold, and, though he may to some extent recover consciousness, his senses are dull. When severe shock is estab- lished the probability of overcoming it is not great, and therefore it is highly important to take measures beforehand to avoid or diminish it as far as possible. Treatment.—(a) Prophylaxis.—We have already referred to some of the points in the preparation of the patient which are of importance in con- nection with this question of shock, such as his frame of mind, a good night's rest previous to the operation, and the administration of food. Of especial importance is the 7iutrie7it enema of brandy and peptonized meat juice given half an hour before the operation (see p. 83). An essential precautionary point is to take measures to keep up the body temperature. The operation should be performed in a warm room free from draughts, and a temperature of from 60° to 80° F. should be maintained. This, however, is not of itself sufficient in bad cases, and the best plan is to have the table on which the patient is lying kept at 100° to 105° F. by means of warm water. In some operating tables this is accomplished by having the top of the table composed of a series of tubes through which hot water circulates (see Fig. 44), but this necessitates a special table. An equally good plan is to have a large copper tray about 6 inches deep, and 5 feet in length, with a metal top, and tubes at the ends for the entrance and exit of hot water, which is kept circulating through it during the operation. Where this is not available, its place may be supplied by a water-bed or large water-pillow filled with water at a temperature of 110° F. The latter is especially good in cases of opera- tion upon children, although from the movements it communicates to the patient it is inferior to the steadier hot-water table. The table is covered with one or two warm blankets, on which the patient lies, and the aseptic towels which surround the area of operation (see Chap. VIII.) are wrung out of hot lotion and changed at intervals. Where the arrangement above described is not available, the room should be kept as warm as one can work in. All lotions used during the operation should be at about a temperature of 100° F. In abdominal operations, if coils of intestine escape they should at once be replaced, and if it be necessary to keep them outside the body they should be covered with warm aseptic cloths or sponges frequently renewed. Several india-rubber hot water bottles should be placed about the patient, taking care of course to have them well covered with fllannel so as not to burn him. Rapidity of operation is also important in cases where shock is likely to occur. The steps of the operation should be carefully planned before- hand, and all necessary preparations made before the antesthetic is administered, so that no time is lost afterwards. Where it is important to reduce the time that the patient is under the anaesthetic to a minimum, all preliminaries, such as shaving, purification of the skin, arrangement of aseptic towels, etc., should be carried out before the antesthetic is com-