ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 13 when the fomentation is taken away, and this is left in situ while the fresh fomentation is being prepared. In some cases, where there is much pain, a considerable amount of relief may be afforded by sprinkling on the surface of the fomentation, after it has been prepared, about half a drachm or more of laudanum, previously warmed by immersing the bottle in hot water. In other cases where the inflammation is deep seated, and a certain amount of irritation of the skin is desired, this may easily be obtained by sprinkling 10 to 20 drops of turpentine over the surface of the flannel, and thus making what is known as a turpentine stupe. A special material, known by the name of spongiopilin, is sold in order to avoid the use of mackintosh in the application of the fomentation. It consists of thick felt covered on one side with an impermeable layer, and this is employed in the same way as the flannel in making the fomentation. As a rule, however, it is well to place mackintosh and wool outside the spongiopilin, as in an ordinary fomentation. General Treatment.—The general treatment of the patient must be directed partly to the relief of symptoms such as pain, and partly to pro- moting the excretion of the poisonous materials absorbed from the inflamed area into the blood. The latter object is effected by attempting to dilute the poison in the blood by means of diluent drinks, and also by making efforts to assist the secretions from the skin, the bowels, and the kidneys. The first point then, in the case of inflammatory fever, is to administer a purgative, and the best substance that one can use for that purpose is sulphate of magnesia or some other saline. The sulphate of magnesia is given in a dose of half an ounce or more, dissolved in as little water as the patient can comfortably swallow; the more concentrated it is the better is its effect. By its means at least one copious watery evacuation a day should be ensured. The purge acts partly by clearing out decomposing material from the intestine, and should be given even though the bowels have been previously acting quite regularly. It acts partly also by leading to transudation of a quantity of serum from the blood, and thus possibly removing a quantity of poisonous material. At the same time, the purgative probably acts also as a counter-irritant, and thus exerts a further beneficial effect. It will be evident, when we come to speak of chronic inflammation, that counter-irritation is a very potent agent in the treatment, and it is probable that poultices and fomenta- tions act as counter-irritants. Drinks.—The patient should be encouraged to drink a large amount of fluid, with the view of diluting the poison in the blood, and of leading to its rapid elimination by the kidneys. Milk should be given in large quantities—as much as from four to six pints a day if the patient can take it. The combination of milk with barley-water is good, as the latter tends to prevent to some extent the constipating effects of the milk. It also retards coagulation, and, if the patient is much troubled with the curdHng of the milk in the stomach, lime-water may be added, or still better, one-