.206 WOUNDS. ■saprophytic growth. Although the true saprophytes are unable to grow in the living tissues, they may nevertheless cause very serious results and may even bring about the death of the patient whose wounds they infect, for, as a result of their growth in organic materials, various poisonous :substances are produced, which if absorbed into the body, may give rise to the condition known as septic intoxication. Septic intoxication therefore is an affection produced not by parasitic growth in the body but by the .absorption of products of decomposition formed in the wound. These products are mainly the result of the growth of saprophytes, but they .are also to some extent produced by organisms which can become parasitic should the patient live. Symptoms.—The symptoms of septic intoxication are due to the poison which is absorbed into the system, and the condition in former ■ days was not recognised as such and was often spoken of as "secondary shock." The affection can only occur in large wounds, because it is only in them that sufficient toxic material can be formed to provide a poisonous dose; for example, it may be met with in amputations at the hip joint, operations upon large joints such as the knee, extensive compound fractures, extensive operations about the breast and axilla, many abdominal •operations, psoas abscess and so forth. The clinical history is somewhat as follows. In the first place, the operation being a severe one, the patient suffers more or less from collapse, with depression of temperature, feeble pulse, etc., and this is followed, as the shock is recovered from, by reaction with pyrexia. The temperature usually rises considerably within 24 hours; then it falls rapidly and the patient again passes into a condition not unlike that of shock. He becomes semi-conscious, the pulse is weak and fluttering, and the temperature low; if this condition persist, he may die. The affection is graver in those who have renal ■ disease, for whereas the poison is very rapidly excreted by the healthy kidneys, the excretion may not be sufficiently rapid to save the patient's life if they are diseased. Hence the old rule, on which so much stress was laid, was that, where there was albumen in the urine, no operation should be undertaken. Nowadays, since we do not anticipate such a •catastrophe as septic intoxication, this does not apply with such rigour. Milder conditions of septic intoxication may also occur, in which there is no great lowering of temperature; in them the patient rapidly recovers. Treatment.—(a) Local.—When the above symptoms appear, the clear indications are to wash away all decomposing materials from the wound, so as to stop the absorption, and then to support the patient's strength and to promote the excretion of the poison which has already entered the body. Hence, if the temperature, after having risen high during the first 24 hours, falls rapidly and remains subnormal, while, at the same time, symptoms of shock make their appearance, the wound should at once be opened up freely, the stitches taken out, and all the decom- posing blood clot and other material cleared out. It should then be