203. EFFECTS OF INTENSE COLD. once a day, or oftener if the patient has been walking about. The use- of glycerine and belladonna (glycer. belladonnse, B.P.) over the inflamed part is also of value, and it is more suitable where the chilblain completely surrounds the toe; a piece of boracic lint is covered with the preparation and wrapped round the toe. Where the chilblains are ulcerating, the best application is balsam of Peru; a piece of lint soaked in the balsam, and with some excess of it on the surface, is applied over the sore. In changing the dressings, the use of warm boracic lotion to bathe the part is sufficient; the application should be renewed night and morning. A patient suffering from chilblains derives great benefit from the use of cod liver oil and syrup of iodide of iron internally, a teaspoonful of cod liver oil with 20 to 25 minims of syrup of iodide of iron being taken three or four times a day. Nourishing diet, with plenty of fatty food, should be given, and when the chilblains affect the feet, and have ulcerated, every effort should be made to induce the patient to lie up,, or at least to refrain from walking. 2. Of the Second Stage.—In the second stage of cold, the use of stimulant lotions or balsam of Peru (see p. 202) is best in the first instance. As the ulceration in this case is usually of an atonic form,, everything possible should be done to increase the nutrition of the limb. Massage applied to the whole limb above the limit of the sore will keep- the circulation active, and will be of great benefit; in the same way electricity applied to the part in the form of electric baths, or the Faradic current applied to the muscles, and used in precisely the same way as- for cases of Raynaud's disease, is of great value. These methods have been described in detail (see p. 73). When the sore begins to heal, quarter strength boracic ointment may be substituted for the balsam of Peru. The part should be elevated,, but it may not be necessary to keep the patient in bed, rest on a sofa often being sufficient; this point must, however, be determined by seeing how the ulcer progresses. If it does not heal, or if it shows signs of spreading when the patient is allowed to remain on the sofa, rigid con- finement to bed, with the foot elevated, must be enforced. Cod liver oil should be administered internally, along with stimulants and a nutritious diet. 3. Of the Third Stage (Frost-bite). — The treatment of the third stage, or that in which gangrene occurs, remains to be considered. In the first place, the part should be thawed by friction with snow (see p. 201), and then wrapped up in cotton wool. If, however, the frost-bite- is evidently severe, it is as well to set to work at once to disinfect the part, scrubbing the skin with strong mixture and turpentine, shaving it^ cleaning the nails, and so forth, as has already been described with regard to gangrene (see p. 64), and then wrapping up the limb in cyanide gauze and salicylic wool. Immediate amputation should not be performed; it is-