145 AFTER-TREATMENT OF OPERATIONS. into ordinary sleep, which may last an hour or two, and in that case the patient may have no pain at all when he wakes up; at any rate the worst of the pain will have passed off, and the sickness will not be so great. Feeding.—Neither food nor drink should be given for three or four hours after the operation; at most, a small quantity of very hot water or a teaspoonful of brandy and water if absolutely necessary. At the end of that time, if the patient desire food, some warm beef-tea may be given, and after about six hours, if there be no sickness, this may be alternated with milk and soda. It is well not to push the feeding for the first 24 hours, unless in the case of a very weakly patient, and even then two or three nutrient enemata or zyminized suppositories administered at intervals of four hours are better than feeding by the mouth. If feeding by the mouth be commenced too soon, or pushed too energetically, it is apt to bring on serious sickness. For the treatment of vomiting after an anaesthetic, see p. 117. If there be much pain, a quarter of a grain of morphine may be injected subcutaneously soon after the operation, but in most cases it is best to leave the patient alone. The patient should always be seen on the evening of the operation in case he is in pain, for which morphine may be necessary; in case any bandage be too tight and require cutting; also in case there be retention of urine, which may occur not only after rectal and perineal operations, but sometimes in other cases. Other troubles of which the patient may complain are the occurrence of colicky pains and pain in the loins. Colicky pains are not uncommon, more especially after hernia operations, and if they occur they seldom entirely subside until the bowels have acted. They are, however, diminished by the administration of opium. Pain in the back is a very common complaint with people who have been in vigorous health before the operation, especially where the operation is prolonged, and where the patient has to lie on his back afterwards. This passes off in 24 or 36 hours, but while it lasts it causes considerable dis- comfort. A pillow or an india-rubber hot water bottle under the back relieves it to some extent, and where we expect that it may happen, e.g. in prolonged operations, it is well to place a pillow under the loins when the patient is put upon the operating table. In cases where asepsis is obtained, the patient is free from pain by the next day at latest and rapidly regains his normal strength, very little further attention being required. If the operation has been a severe one, it may be well for 48 hours after the operation to keep him on slops, that is to say, beef-tea, chicken broth, milk, a little champagne or other stimulant, etc., and then on the third day to commence solid food, and in a day or two to let him have his ordinary diet. Where the operation has not been severe, and there has been no sickness, no restriction need be placed on the diet after the first 24 hours. Aperients.—The patient is seldom quite comfortable until the bowels have been cleared out, and this should generally be seen to on the second K