ERYSIPELAS. 219 just deeply enough to cause the vessels to bleed. These scarifications should be very numerous, and are made to cross each other and to sur- round the whole area of the redness, at a distance of about 2 inches from its edge (see Fig. 62); after the capillary oozing has ceased the blood is wiped away and the affected area is either soaked with a 1-20 carbolic acid solution or is sprayed with it for about an hour. After the scarification and the spraying, compresses of gauze soaked in 1-40 carbolic acid solution should be applied over the scarified surface. The result is that, partly as the result of the scarifications and partly as the result of the carbolic acid, very considerable irritation is produced all round the erysipelatous area, and, as suggested above, when the organisms reach the irritated part they are met by a barrier of cells. Certainly experience seems to show that Kraske's method is by far the most effectual plan of Fig. 62.—Kraske's Method of Treatment for Erysfpei-as. The ring of scarifications should be made, as depicted above, well clear of the margin of the rash. It is as well to allow an interval of quite two inches. treating erysipelas, so long as the affection is a true cutaneous one, and not an inflammation of the subcutaneous tissues as well. It should however only be used in severe cases: it is painful, and necessitates the use of an anaesthetic during the scarification. There are many applications to the actual erysipelatous part advocated by various authorities; some surgeons state that they have derived benefit by spraying it freely with carbolic acid, which is done upon the presumption that the acid is absorbed and, passing into the lymphatic vessels, directly affects the organisms \ probably this idea has not any very good foundation in fact. In most cases applications calculated to relieve the local discomfort are sufficient. Where there is not much heat or pain, all that is necessary is to wrap the part up in salicylic wool. Where there are both pain and swelling, the use of lead lotion or lead and opium lotion (see p. 9) is to be recommended, lint kept constantly moist with the lotion being placed over the affected area. During desquamation it is well to keep the part anointed with some antiseptic ointment, such as the ung. eucalypti. This both relieves the troublesome itching often complained of, and lessens the chance of dissemination of the infective epidermic scales.