48 ULCERATION. least the limb should be shaved. If there be much discharge it is well to cut several holes in the centre of the protective so as to allow of drainage into the lint. Wet boracic dressing.—Where the ulcers are painful, or where there are sloughs on the surface, it is well to apply wet boracic lint without any protective, the lint being used in the same way as a water dressing. The boracic lint soaked in warm boracic lotion is applied over the ulcer so as to extend for a little distance beyond it, and outside this, overlapping in all directions, is fastened a piece of mackintosh, oiled silk, or gutta-percha tissue, previously disinfected by immersion in carbolic lotion. This wet boracic dressing or boracic poultice, as it is sometimes called, should be changed twice a day, but should not be continued after the irritable con- dition of the sore has ceased, or after the sloughs have separated. If used too long, the granulations become oedematous and a form of weak ulcer is thus established. Fig. 12.—Celluloid Wound Shields. The shield is inserted in the centre of a sheet of adhesive plaster, by means of which it is applied to the limb. In the figures two holes are represented in each shield ; these are to permit of evaporation. If it be desired to keep the surface of the ulcer quite moist, non-perforated shields may be used. Boracic ointment.—Another method of dressing that is especially useful where the ulcers are healing rapidly, is the appHcation of various ointments. Of course these must be antiseptic; zinc ointment, which is commonly employed, being, on account of its septicity, a very objectionable dressing for a wound. The best is either unguentum boracis or unguentum eucalypti. The boracic ointment of the Pharmacopoeia will however be found to be too strong to permit rapid healing, and, in most cases, one of a quarter its strength is the most suitable. This should be spread on muslin or butter-cloth, in a thin even layer, no portion of the surface being left uncovered by the ointment, and before application it is well to dip it in the boracic solution. Outside the ointment a piece of boracic lint is applied and the whole secured by a bandage. Cases are sometimes met with where the surface of the sore is extremely delicate and seems to resent the presence of any application, however unirritating it may be. As long as there is anything in contact with it, cica- trization will not take place. Under these circumstances, the best plan is to dispense entirely with dressings and merely to place over the ulcer some