248 TUBERCULOSIS. containing fluid mixed with broken down cheesy material, disintegrated tissues and leucocytes. The essential part of a chronic abscess is the wall, and to it any curative treatment must be particularly directed. The mere evacuation of its contents will not, as in an acute abscess, necessarily lead to a subsidence of the disease. The tubercle bacilli and the tubercles themselves are present in the wall, and all that is evacuated when the abscess is incised are the broken down contents, along with the fluid and leucocytes that have passed into it as the result of the inflammation around. Treatment.—The aim of the treatment must, therefore, be to deal with the wall of the abscess, and this is carried out in various ways according to its situation and extent. Excision.—Where the abscess is only quite small and subcutaneous, the simplest plan of treatment is to excise the abscess wall with its contents intact, as if it were a sebaceous cyst. Similarly, where the abscess is connected with a gland, and even when it has perforated the gland capsule and spread through the fascia to the subcutaneous tissue, the only satisfactory treatment is to dissect out the wall of the abscess, and along with it, the gland from which it comes. This may be looked upon as the ideal treat- ment of a chronic abscess: to dissect away completely and cleanly the wall, and the focus from which it originates. Moreover, if the abscess be pointing, and has led to thinning and infection of the skin, the affected portion of the skin should also be removed. Any attempt to save it will leave tuberculous material behind, and this may act as a focus for the re-infection of the wound, so that healing may be delayed; the thin skin if left will not recover, and its death will lead to an ugly scar. Hence all adherent skin should be excised, and unless a large area be affected there is no difficulty in bringing the edges of the wound together after under- mining the tissues around. When an abscess has been dissected out in this way, the wound can be stitched up completely and treated in the manner recommended for the treatment of aseptic incised wounds (see p. 152). Should the abscess wall burst during the course of dissection, and pus escape into the wound, the latter should be thoroughly and fre- quently douched out during the remainder of the operation; curiously enough, under these circumstances tuberculous infection of the wound does not as a rule occur. Where the abscess is connected with a gland, it is not sufficient to remove the gland which has led to the abscess; any others in the neighbourhood which are enlarged should also be taken away. Partial Removal of Abscess Wall.—In very large deep-seated chronic abscesses it is of course impossible to remove the wall completely. Here, one of two procedures may be adopted. In the first place, if the abscess be situated so deeply that it cannot be dissected away, and if no important structures intervene between the abscess wall and the surface, the former should be laid freely open (unless it be very important to avoid causing a scar), so that the whole interior of the abscess cavity is exposed to view; as much of the wall as possible should then be dissected out and clipped