73 RAYNAUD'S DISEASE. months. It is supposed to be due to spasm of the arterioles brought about reflexly by the uterine disorder. In this affection certain phenomena precede the gangrene. The ex- tremity affected may become quite white, and this is evidently due to contraction of the blood-vessels; following this, or occurring without any preliminary pallor, the parts may become of a deep purple colour, as if they had been dipped in ink. This is evidently due to a local venous condition of the blood, from great slowing of the circulation. It may last for a day or two, and may or may not lead to gangrene. The gangrene is of the dry form. The darkness of the extremities just noted continues for some days, the pain and other symptoms increase, and small bullae may possibly form. Indeed, in the case of the hand, it often looks as if the patient were going to lose all the fingers. Ultimately the circulation improves very much, and as a rule the final result is that only a small piece of tissue dries up, and ultimately separates. The whole process is very slow and takes from the commencement of the gangrene to the separation of the slough from twenty days to ten months. The disease is very apt to recur. Treatment.—In the treatment of the local condition, the first place must be given to the use of stimulation by the electrical current. For this purpose the constant current may be used, and, as recommended by Dr. Barlow, the extremity of the affected limb should be immersed in a large basin containing salt and water. One pole of the constant current battery is placed on the upper part of the limb, whilst the other is immersed in the fluid in the basin, which is thus converted into an electrode. As many cells may be employed as the patient can comfortably bear, and the current is made and broken at frequent intervals, 20 to 30 per minute, so as to get repeated moderate contractions of the muscles of the limb. Where several of the extremities are affected, and where it is possible to obtain it, the complete electric bath is best.^ The bath itself should be of porcelain, earthenware, or wood, about 5 ft. 6 in. long, and the patient should be entirely immersed up to the neck when lying in it. The water should be just under 100° F. The electrodes are large flat copper plates fixed to the poles of an induction coil, and should be about one foot square; they are placed at the head and foot of the bath. The shoulders should not touch the electrode, the feet may be allowed to do so. The current used to begin with should not exceed 100 milliampbres : after a few baths it may gradually be raised to 150 or even 200, if it is not painful. The current should not be turned on until the patient has been in the bath some little time, and then only very gradually. The bath should last from 10 to 15 minutes, and should be repeated daily for the first week; then three times a day until about a dozen to fifteen baths have been taken. This is generally sufficient to produce considerable ^ For further information concerning the use of the electric bath the reader may be referred to Dr. Lewis Jones' excellent work on Medical Electricity, 2nd edition (H. K. Lewis, London), to which we are indebted for several of the above points.