WOUNDS. 132 great distance without attaining the required result. In the case of a large artery, therefore, the vessel is pulled out of its sheath and grasped transversely to its long axis with a pair of forceps above the point where the torsion is to be employed, and the cut end of the artery is then grasped by another pair of forceps, and twisted till the coats are felt to give way and till a sufficient twisted piece is left. Four complete revolu- tions generally suffice. In the case of small vessels, it usually suffices to get the artery as free from the surrounding tissues as possible, to grasp the tissues above the artery with the fingers of one hand, compress them firmly, and then twist up the part seized by the forceps with the other hand. Although torsion answers very well in many cases, we cannot recommend it as a substitute for ligature. It was introduced before the aseptic period, when ligatures had to separate, and when, therefore, there was a danger of secondary haemorrhage; but nowadays, when ligatures are cut short and never separate from the divided ends of the artery, there is no risk of secondary haemorrhage, and torsion, except for small vessels, has become more or less obsolete. Pressure.—Pressure is also a very important method of arresting hcemorrhage, more especially of the venous or capillary variety; indeed, venous bleeding can be most readily arrested by it, and in many cases where it is undesirable to have ligatures on the surface of the wound, as for instance in cases of operations about the lips, the surgeon makes use partly of cold and partly of pressure to complete the arrest of the haemorrhage. The pressure stops the flow of blood through the vessel while a clot is being formed. In speaking of pressure, we must mention the "graduated compress." AVhere the bleeding point is deeply seated, and where it is not desired to open up the wound, pressure may be employed to arrest the haemorrhage. If, however, the pressure be simply applied in the form of a pad over the surface of the wound, the bleeding may go on in the interior; a good example is bleeding from the cavity of a tooth after the latter has been extracted. Cases of this kind require the application of a graduated compress, that is to say, a tiny piece of gauze or lint is placed actually on the bleeding point, then pieces gradually in- creasing in size are added until a conical pad is formed, the outer part of which projects well above the surface. Then by means of a bandage, or in the case of a tooth by fixing the two jaws together, pressure is applied through the cone actually on to the bleeding point. Temporary pressure by forceps,—A good deal can also be done in the way of arresting haemorrhage from small vessels by pinching them tightly. The vessels are seized as free as possible from surrounding tissue with the point of a strong forceps, such as Spencer Wells', or, perhaps even better, those devised by Greig Smith (see Fig. 42), and are held in them for some little time. If, as the operation proceeds, the various bleeding points be compressed in this way and the forceps left on, it will be found that by the time the operation is completed and the forceps removed, only