GANGRENE. 66 completely aseptic. Formerly, if the bones were extensively injured ampu- tation was performed, even although the large vessels and nerves were intact, but sufficient experience has now shown us that, in a very large number of cases, compound fractures can be safely treated under antiseptic precautions, without recourse to amputation. Formerly, also, it was held best to amputate where large portions of the skin were lost, even although both vessels and bones were intact, because violent inflammation and septic absorption, leading to a fatal result, often occurred: if the patient survived, either the wound, owing to the difficulty of contraction, did not heal at all, or if it did, the contraction was so great as to cause great deformity, and render the extremity useless. At the present time, however, these risks can to a certain extent be avoided, and even where extensive portions of skin are lost amputation is not always necessary. In the first place, if the part be disinfected in the manner just described (see p. 64), and if asepsis be obtained, it frequently happens that a con- siderable amount of tissue which would otherwise have died retains its vitality. In the second place, by the use of skin-grafting when the wound has begun to granulate (see p. 50), the great contraction which would otherwise result is avoided, while at the same time wounds can be got to heal which otherwise would not heal at all. In patients who are very old, or much broken down in health, and to whom a long confinement to bed would be very injurious, more particularly if they are the subjects of renal disease, amputation is however often the safest procedure. Where diabetes is present the cases in which an attempt should be made to save the limb are comparatively few. (2) Gangrene due to Pressure.—Another cause of direct gangrene is continued pressure, and it is very important to remember this when a patient has to be kept in one position for a long time. Under such circumstances, the parts subjected to pressure are very apt to die, and this is more especially the case with soft parts over bony prominences, such as the sacrum, or those subjected to pressure against the edge of a spHnt. In other words, we have to do here with the condition known as bed-sore. The gangrene in these cases is moist. The treatment of bed-sore resolves itself into {a) prophylaxis, {b) treat- ment where bed-sore is threatened, and {c) where it is actually present. {a) Prophylaxis.—The essential points in the prophylactic treatment are in the first place to avoid continuous pressure, or so to vary or diffuse it that it shall not tell too long or too injuriously on one part, and, in the second place, to keep the skin dry. The first indication is carried out by frequently altering the position of the patient or the part, or by so arranging matters that the pressure shall not tell on any bony prominence. For instance, the patient may lie on a ring pillow, the opening in the pillow being opposite the part where pressure is to be avoided. Another and in most cases the best way is to place the patient on a water-pillow or a water-bed, so that the pressure does not remain localized