113 DIFFICULTIES AND DANGERS. of strength of the vapour, not increasing the strength beyond that which can be readily borne. (c) The administrator should devote the whole of his attention to the administration. He should not be called upon to hold instruments, or otherwise assist the surgeon, or even interest himself about the operation. (d) As soon as sufficiently relaxed, the head must be turned to one side, so as to permit the mucus to flow out of the mouth and prevent the tongue falling backwards. (e) The respiration must be watched with particular care, the hand being occasionally held in front of the nose and mouth to test the force of the breathing. The movements of the chest and abdomen are not to be relied upon, as they may be altogether out of proportion to the amount of air actually entering the lungs. Nor is the sound of the breathing to be depended upon; it may be largely due to mucus, or to buccal or palatine stertor. In my opinion, too, mechanical indicators in the shape of feathers, etc., are apt to be fallacious. They induce a false sense of security, as they do not distinguish between a very light and a moderately forcible expiration. At the same time the circulation, as indicated by the colour of the face and ears, should be watched, and the pupil observed. (/) If in doubt as to the exact significance of any particular or peculiar symptom or change, it is safer to allow the patient to come round rather than press the anaesthetic. Active Treatment.—If, however, any of the conditions indicated on p. Ill have developed, the following routine treatment should be adopted. It is of importance that the exact order of procedure be observed; that each step be carried out deliberately and completely, without flurry; that a wait of at least a few seconds be made between each movement, to be sure of its effect, and, in extreme cases, that treatment be persevered in for some time, even although apparently hopeless. (1) Keep the head turned to one side, but do not otherwise alter the position of the patient. Withdraw the anaesthetic. Extend the head upon the trunk by pressing backwards upon the forehead ; release the base of the tongue by forcible pressure upon the lower jaw at the angles, so as to protrude the lower incisor teeth beyond the upper, or by pulling forward the chin so as to raise the hyoid bone and larynx. In the very earliest stages of respiratory embarrassment, often nothing more than this is required. If the breathing be not restored by these means the next step is, (2) Open the mouth, by means of the gag (Fig. 35), if necessary, seize the tip of the tongue in the forceps (Fig. 36), and pull the tongue forcibly forwards. This does not move forward the base of the tongue to any appreciable extent, but probably it mainly acts reflexly, and causes the retraction of the soft tissues in front of the glottis, and is, therefore, of particular service in the condition described by Lord Lister (see p. 103). (3) Should the above manoeuvres have no effect, the next proceeding is to explore and clear out the air-way. The finger is passed to the back H