CHAPTER III. ULCERATION. DEFINITION.—An ulcer has been roughly defined as any breach of the skin or mucous membrane which does not tend to heal. This defini- tion includes, however, not merely ulcers proper, the result of inflammatory processes, but also ulcerating tumours, with which we shall not deal in the present chapter. True ulceration is an inflammatory process, and a more accurate definition is, that an ulcer is a progressive loss of substance in skin or mucous membrane which has previously been the seat of inflammatory changes that have gone on to granulation. This continued loss of sub- stance is not due to death of visible portions of tissue (in which case there would be gangrene), but to degeneration of cells, or death of microscopic portions of the tissue—what is known as molecular death. CLASSIFICATION.—There are two great classes of ulcers proper, namely, (i) those which are not due to any specific virus, but are caused by various local troubles, such as imperfections in the blood supply or innervation of the part. This class may be spoken of as the chronic non-infective ulcer. (2) Those in which a specific virus is at the root of the ulcerative process; this includes a large group of ulcers, by far the greater number being the result of syphihtic or tubercular disease. These are the chronic infective ulcers. In these latter there is, preceding the ulcerative process, a formation of new tissue which has a special tendency to undergo degeneration; for example, syphilitic nodules undergo gum- matous degeneration, and tubercles undergo caseation, the result of these degenerative changes being ulceration. These chronic infective ulcers will be discussed more in detail in speaking of syphilis, tubercle, etc.; here we shall only deal with the chronic non-infective ulcers which result directly from inflammation. CAUSES.—Before proceeding to discuss the treatment of ulcers, it is necessary to consider the causes which lead to the ulcerative process, and the various types of ulcers they produce. The causes of ulceration are mainly local, and among the chief is anything which tends to produce defective circulation of blood in the part. For example, if an inflamed limb hangs down, the return of the venous blood is impeded; consequently less arterial blood flows to the part, and its nutrition is therefore