192 WOUNDS. Even after skin-grafting has been employed, the great tendency to contraction during heaHng in these cases must still be borne in mind, and must be counteracted by the careful application of splints. For example, in the case of loss of skin and fascia at the bend of the elbow, the arm must be kept carefully extended by means of an anterior splint; where the loss is about the back of the hand, it is well to keep the fingers flexed during the healing process, the principle being that, if contraction be likely to occur in a certain direction, it is best counteracted by fixing the limb on a splint bent in the opposite direction. It must also be borne in mind that the tendency of the scar to contract does not by any means cease when healing is complete; a young scar will go on contracting for a considerable time, and this tendency will continue for three or four months at least. Hence, when the skin over a joint is involved, the use of a splint must be continued for at least that length of time after the wound has healed. It may not, perhaps, be advisable for the patient to wear the splint night and day for the whole time, as certain movements of the joint must be allowed in order to keep up its mobility and the nutrition of the muscles about it, but certainly for two or three months the splint should be constantly used, and then it may be left off during the day, and only applied during the night for another period of about three months. Massage and passive movement which will also be called for, in order to ensure proper movement in the neighbouring joints, and to restore tone to the muscles, will prove valuable auxiliaries in stretching the scar. POISONED WOUNDS. VARIETIES.—In speaking of poisoned wounds, reference is usually made only to those following post-mortem examinations, dissections, or operations, especially upon parts containing foul pus, etc. We shall restrict the term here to these conditions. The most common variety is the post- mortem wound, and there are three distinct varieties of infection which may arise in this connection. (a) Lupus Anatomicus.—This is the mildest form,, and is also known as anatomical warts. It consists of warty growths which appear on the fingers of pathologists and post-mortem porters, and which are really of a tuberculous nature. The soft warts are often very rebellious to treatment, and in a certain number of cases they give rise to disease elsewhere, for example, tuberculous glands in the axilla or above the elbow, infection of neighbouring joints or sheaths of tendons (tuberculous synovitis, or teno- synovitis), lung disease, etc. Hence it is important to recognise and remove them as soon as possible. Treatment.—The best treatment is to excise the growth, going wide of it in all directions; provided that the wart be small, the result is quite satisfactory. After excision a skin-graft is applied to the raw surface, and subsequent contraction is thus avoided. Even where the warty growth is