255 EPITHELIAL TUMOURS. cylindrical epitheliomata, springing from the intestinal canal, etc. Those which originate from glandular epithelium are termed the carcinomata proper. The carcinomata proper also form several groups. There is a very soft form called encephaloid cancer in which the cells are very numerous and the fibrous tissue very small in amount. They are exceedingly malignant, growing with great rapidity, and giving rise early to secondary deposits. In marked contrast to these is the atrophic scirfhus, where the cells atrophy very quickly, and the growth contains a large amount of fibrous tissue with but few alveoli and cellular elements. These tumours grow extremely slowly and never attain any great size. Intermediate between these two extremes are all sorts of gradations. Mode of Spread.—The essential growing element in the carcinomata is the epithelial cell, and the character of the growth depends upon the mode in which these cells spread. In the malignant tumours the epithelial cells are usually found enclosed in tubular spaces termed alveoli, which are probably nothing else than dilated and much-altered lymph spaces ; at any rate they communicate quite freely with the lymphatics. The cells are evidently derived from the normal epithelium of the part in which the disease primarily begins, but they very soon increase in size independently of it and show active processes of growth. They rapidly push their way through the limiting membrane of the normal epithelium into the tissues around and there spread in the lymph spaces and channels : at the same time it would appear from recent investigations that they also attack the walls of the smaller veins, and spread into their interior at a very early period, although metastatic deposits, due to infection through the blood- vessels, seldom show themselves clinically until late in the course of the disease. After spreading into the lymphatic vessels, the cells become detached and are soon carried with the lymph stream, and either become lodged in the course of the vessels where the latter are small and the cells are large or massed together in groups; or they are carried on to the nearest lym- phatic glands, where they are caught, and there give rise to secondary tumours. From the nearest lymphatic glands again they spread in the same way to others in the neighbourhood, and thus fresh groups of glands are affected. Ultimately they get into the blood-vessels, either indirectly through the thoracic duct, or directly by penetrating the walls of the veins. They are thus finally deposited in various organs in distant parts of the body. Hence, in carcinomatous tumours, we have a primary tumour, a secondary glandular infection and internal or metastatic deposits. Furthermore, certain special degenerations occur in some forms, such as colloid degeneration in carcinoma of the stomach and intestine, and a form of degeneration accompanied by the deposit of pigment which is generally spoken of as melanotic cancer. Treatment.—The only treatment of carcinoma that is at all likely to be of any avail is operative, and the best method in all cases is by the use of the knife. As will be mentioned later, some prefer in certain cases,