130 WOUNDS. haemorrhage is very important, and the main vessel and its larger branches can be tied before the blood is allowed to flow through the vessels again. It is also useful in operations for necrosis, as it allows the surgeon to distinguish easily between the living and the dead part; but it is not so good in cases of tubercular joints, where the accurate recognition of the diseased tissues depends to a considerable extent on the vascularity of the part. Objections to "bloodless methods."—There is one great general objection to the use of Esmarch's bandage, and the principle of bloodless operations generally. It is that, if the operation be a prolonged one, the after-bleeding is very severe, and the amount of blood lost by the patient is probably as great when the bandage is used as when it is not. Further than this, more time is spent over the operation, because an unduly large number of vessels have to be tied, and the wound cannot be sewn up until the oozing has stopped. When the bandage is removed after it has been on for some considerable time the vessels dilate, the limb is seen to flush and become much redder than its fellow, and there is in fact a certain amount of vaso-motor paralysis. As a consequence of this many of the vessels go on bleeding, and require ligature; had the bandage not been used the bleeding from these vessels would have stopped almost immediately. Ligature.—Of the methods employed for the artificial arrest of haemorrhage the best and most generally used is that of ligature. Where an artery is of such a size that the bleeding does not cease spontaneously soon after its division, it is well to apply a ligature to it. The effect of a ligature applied to an artery is to divide the internal and middle coats, which curl up in the interior of the vessel, and, further, to constrict the external coat firmly, so as to prevent the escape of blood from the vessel. Two varieties of material are used for ligatures, either absorbable materials, or those which are not absorbable or are absorbed only with very great difficulty; the best of the former materials is catgut. Catgut, unless specially prepared so as to harden it, is very quickly absorbed, and unprepared catgut in the tissues will not hold for more than a few hours. Lord Lister has devoted much time to the subject of the preparation of this material, and when prepared as he recommends, it will hold for some weeks before it begins to disappear. A reliable form is Lister's chromicized catgut, prepared as described in the Lancet for February 5th, 1881. The one that finds most favour at the present time is that prepared by means of sulphurous acid, and is known as Lister's sulpho-chromic catgut. Cat- gut in its raw state is full of bacteria, because putrefaction plays a part in its manufacture, the gut being allowed to decompose to a certain extent, in order to permit the mucous membrane to be easily stripped off the muscular coat. Hence, as it comes from the manufacturer, it contains living bacteria and their spores. In the process of preparation recom- mended by Lord Lister a considerable amount of disinfection takes place, so that the chromicized catgut immediately after it is prepared is prac-