TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. 177 result, similar methods and dressings should be employed to those used where the edges are brought together; but, in order to protect the blood- clot from the irritation of the dressings, a piece of Lister's oiled silk protective, somewhat larger than the wound, should be interposed; the protective is soaked in the sublimate solution for some time previous to appUcation, and outside it a large gauze and wool dressing is applied. What most commonly happens where the wound is large is that healing by blood- clot occurs to a considerable extent, and then a small part in the centre undergoes a certain amount of granulation before complete cicatrization takes place. Thiersch's Skin-grafting in Fresh Wounds.—Healing by blood-clot is, however, a slow process, and there is always a risk of accidental contamination of the wound; therefore, a quicker method of obtaining healing, namely, Thiersch's skin-grafting, is often employed. By its adoption immediately after the infliction of the wound, a good result will be obtained in most cases, and healing will occur almost as rapidly as in union by first intention, while the contraction which follows granulation will, to a great extent be avoided. Skin-grafting should be employed, if possible, at the end of the operation, as soon as the bleeding has been arrested, and, with the exception that in these cases there is no granulating wound to scrape, the whole process is the same as that already described on p. 50. Where the operation has been very extensive, and the patient is very collapsed, it may be advisable to defer the skin-grafting for a short time; in these cases, after about ten days, the blood-clot is scraped from the surface of the wound, and, when the oozing has been arrested, the skin-grafts are applied in the usual manner. At first sight, it might be supposed that the skin-grafts would not adhere well to non-granulating tissues, but as a matter of fact they do, and much may be done to improve the condition of affairs by immediate skin-grafting. Plastic Operations.—Where the cutaneous loss is not excessive, and the skin in the neighbourhood is fairly lax, the interval between the edges of the wound may be made good by means of a plastic operation. By a plastic operation is meant one performed with the view of covering in some defect in the skin, mucous membrane, etc., whether congenital or acquired. In the present instance we have only to do with the covering in of defects left after an operation in which the edges of the wound cannot be brought together. The plastic operations in connection with congenital defects will be dealt with in their proper place. The simplest form of defect is an oval wound, and here the steps necessary to bring the edges into apposition are generally very simple. All that is necessary in most cases is to undermine the skin around the wound for a sufficient distance to allow the elasticity of the skin sufficient play. A very extensive oval defect may be repaired in this manner; in removal of the breast, for example, an interval of twelve inches or more may be closed by undermining the skin. M