TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. If the skin be pinched up by a stitch that is too tight, persistent irritation is caused, and perfect union may fail; at any rate it will not be so rapid and firm as it should be. It is therefore very important, when inserting sutures, to see that no stitch is tighter than is absolutely necessary to approximate the edges of the skin. Where there is much difficulty in bringing the edges together, however, a certain amount of irritation must necessarily be caused by the stitches, but this can be to a great extent reduced by introducing a few so-called "stitches of relaxation" (Lister), at some considerable distance from the edges of the wound. The tension upon these may be great, and they may subsequently to a certain extent cut through the soft parts; but, temporarily at any rate, they serve to relax the edges of the wound, which may then be stitched together without any tension, with the result that they will heal by primary union. Hence, two classes of sutures are used in cases where the edges of the wound require to be pulled together, namely, a set of stitches of relaxation, and others which may be termed " stitches of coaptation." Stitches of Relaxation."—Stitches of relaxation are employed, then, for the purpose of taking off the strain from those of coaptation, and they require to be inserted at a considerable distance from the edges of the Fig. 46.—Lister's Needle. The groove for the reception of the wire is seen beyond the eye of the needle. wound, and must be reasonably stout, because a thin stitch would cut its way out too quickly; the best material for this purpose is thick silve?- wire (the most suitable size being that commonly sold as No. i or No. 2). Special needles, " Lister's pattern" (see Fig. 46), must be employed for introducing them. In these needles the wire is threaded through an eye at some distance from the end, while between the eye and the end of the needle there is a groove, into which the wire is pressed, so that where the needle goes the wire follows without any unnecessary tearing of the structures through which it passes. In threading these needles, two or three inches of the wire are passed through the eye and flattened into the groove; the end of the needle is then held with forceps, and the two ends of the wire are carefully twisted together (see Fig. 47). If one end of the wire be merely twisted round the other, a number of irregularities are left, which catch in the wound when the stitch is pulled through. Another point with regard to the use of silver wire for this purpose may be mentioned. Pure drawn silver wire without any alloy must be employed, and if it kink it must not be straightened by passing it between the finger and thumb, as is so often done. This destroys the suppleness of the wire at once, and it cannot be tied into a knot; each end should be grasped in a pair of forceps, and the wire straightened by pulling upon