54 ULCERATION. ten days or a fortnight. At the end of that time the whole surface will usually be healed, unless the razor has somewhere gone a little deeper than is necessary. If healing be not quite complete, weak boracic ointment may be applied. The limb from which the grafts are taken should always if possible be the same as that on which is the ulcer requiring grafting; for example, when the ulcer is on the leg, the grafts should be taken from the thigh of the same side. Unless this be done, a second splint will be required to fix the limb from which the grafts have been taken, until healing is complete. Fig. 17.—Thiersch's Method of Skin-grafting. Application of protective. The wound is represented by the dotted line, and the strips of protective overlapping one another and the edges of the wound are shown in position. Changing first Dressing.—The dressing should be left on the grafted surface for about five days; in some cases it may even be left for a week. If the wound be aseptic, no suppuration or decomposition takes place beneath it. While removing the dressing, it should be thoroughly soaked with a 1-2000 sublimate solution, for the protective may stick at the edge and adhere to a graft, which may thus be peeled off unless great care be taken. The parts should be gently cleansed with a 1-2000 sublimate solution, and it is best to re-apply the protective and gauze dressing for about another week. At the end of that time the grafts are fairly firmly adherent, and then an antiseptic ointment—preferably the quarter-strength boracic—is the best application. After-treatment.—It will be found that, even at the first dressing, the grafts present a pink colour and are adherent to the deeper surface, though they are still readily detached. In the course of about a week the old epidermis peels off, but no raw surface is left. Later on there is a great tendency to the formation of new epithelium, cornification and drying up, and it is in avoiding the latter condition that ointments are so useful. In fact, till the scar is absolutely sound, it is well to keep the surface covered with some greasy application, the best being the quarter- strength boracic ointment.