CHRONIC SEPTICEMIA OR HFXTIC FEVER. 2 I I organs, and the only effect of the amputation is to diminish the patient's vitality and to hasten the fatal result. Unless the source of the general ■condition be definitely limited to the wound or its vicinity, amputation is worse than useless. CHRONIC SEPTIC/ltMIA OR HECTIC FEVER. The condition known as hectic fever which is not infrequently met with is in reality nothing else than a chronic septictemia; it may follow on the acute form in a few rare cases, but is generally chronic from the first. In it the temperature has a distinctly hectic character, being high in the evening (ioi° or 102° F.) and falling to about normal in the morning. In acute septicEemia also the pyrexia shows the same intermittent type, but there, notwithstanding the morning fall, the temperature is always a febrile one. The condition of hectic fever, indicated by the temperature, the occurrence of night sweats, wasting, dryness of the tongue, etc., usually does not come on till the chronic septicemic condition has lasted for some weeks at least, and formerly it was ascribed to the loss of certain constituents of the blood resulting from prolonged suppuration. There can be no doubt, however, that it is due to the action of pyogenic organisms, which apparently do not grow in the blood and the viscera, as is probably the case in acute septicaemia, but are located mainly in the wound. After hectic fever has lasted for some time, a peculiar degeneration of the blood-vessels, termed waxy degeneration or lardaceous disease, takes place, and this chiefly affects the blood-vessels in the liver, the kidney, and the intestines; the result is that these vessels become leaky. Hence the amount of urine is increased, there is albuminuria, colliquative diarrhoea and oedema of the extremities. The waxy degeneration is due to the direct action upon the walls of the blood-vessels of the poisonous bacterial products circulating in the blood : it is not, as was formerly supposed, due to the loss of the purulent fluid. The affection is most frequently met with in association with tuberculous disease, necrosis, etc. Treatment.—Local.—In a case of hectic fever the question of disinfecting the wound and getting rid of the source of the disease is naturally the first to arise. From this point of view, the cases may be divided into two large groups: (i) those in which the focus of the disease can be entirely removed, and (2) those in which this is impossible. (i) Where the focus of disease can be entirely removed.—These cases may further be subdivided into those {a) in which some local operation is sufficient to get rid of the primary disease, and {b) those in which amputa- tion is necessary. {a) Local operations, such as the removal of a sequestrum, or arthrectomy of a joint, are called for wherever the extent of the primary disease and the anatomical conditions of the part are such as to offer a good chance of completely removing the cause of the mischief and ensuring, thorough