78 GANGRENE. of demarcation before amputating, partly because the exact amount of tissue that will die cannot be known, and partly because the patient's condition is generally so bad at the onset of the gangrene that amputation would be very apt to cause death. In addition, it is important to support the patient's strength (see p. 64) and treat any symptoms which may arise. (<r) Gangrene from Ergot.—This form of gangrene may occur in epidemics, when the rye in certain districts has become infected with the ■ergot fungus (claviceps purpurea) and where families eat large quantities of this infected rye in the form of rye-bread. The early effect of ergot is to produce tetanic contraction of the smaller blood-vessels, and if this be kept up for a long time, it may lead to gangrene, more especially of the extremities. Certain symptoms, such as diarrhoea, buzzing in the ears, cramps, cold- ness of the extremities, etc., precede the occurrence of gangrene. The affection most usually attacks men between thirty and forty years of age. The form of gangrene is usually dry, but in certain cases it may be moist, and it may vary in extent from the loss of a nail to the loss of a limb. The treatment consists, in the first instance, in removing the cause. If there are the premonitory symptoms of ergot poisoning, or the epidemic occurrence of gangrene in young patients who are otherwise healthy, the food must be examined, and if the claviceps be present, untainted bread must be substituted. Great attention should be paid to the nutrition of the patient, and the use of strong coffee is highly recommended as an antidote. As regards the local treatment when gangrene has set in, the patient must be kept in bed, and the part disinfected and kept aseptic; but before deciding on amputation a line of demarcation should be waited for, because it is impossible to say how much of the tissue will die. As a rule the line of demarcation when it has once formed is permanent, and therefore, as soon as it is well-marked, the best method of fashioning the flaps can be decided upon and amputation performed without any further delay. C. Infective Gangrene.—The third great group of gangrene is that due to specific infective organisms. In former days, as the result of sepsis, a variety of gangrenous processes attacked wounds, but they are very seldom seen now. It will be sufficient if we speak here of three forms of specific gangrene, namely: (i) acute traumatic gangrene; (2) phagedena, and (3) cancrum oris or noma. (i) Acute Traumatic Gangrene.—This is a form that attacks -wounds and is due to the growth of bacteria in the tissues; it especially attacks wounds which have been soiled with earth. It is probably due to a bacillus resembling that which produces symptomatic anthrax in cattle and malignant oedema in some of the lower animals. The disease begins soon after the accident, usually about the second or third day. Its course is as a rule very rapid, averaging about three days before the death of the patient; the part becomes greatly swollen and oedematous and crepitates