WOUNDS. 176 flushing spoons (see Fig. 55) should be employed, the fluid used for irri- gation being a 1-4000 sublimate solution. After the wound has been thoroughly sponged out with liquefied carbolic acid, it should be stuffed with cyanide gauze freely sprinkled with iodoform, and made tp heal by granulation from the bottom, the stuffing being renewed once or even twice daily if the suppuration persist. If, as the result of this procedure, the temperature fall and the general disturbance subside, it may be possible in three or four days to discontinue the stuffing, and, after introducing a drainage tube, to stitch up the edges of the wound again. Fig. 55.—Barker's Flushing Spoon. This is a hollow sharp spoon which is con- nected with a reservoir of fluid by means of india-rubber tubing attached to the handle (the attachment is shown at the right-hand end of the figure). The passage of the fluid is regulated by the sliding valve seen on the upper surface. When the occurrence of rigors, and sudden elevations of temperature, lead one to suspect pyaemia, it is important in opening up the wound to look carefully for any thrombosed veins, and should any be found, the main vein above the thrombosed area should be ligatured, and a portion excised in order to cut off the local source of infection from the general circulation. When the constitutional symptoms persist in spite of this energetic local treatment, nothing remains to be done but to treat the patient on general principles, the strength being supported by stimulants, and a diet as nutritious as he is able to digest being ad- ministered. Where the temperature is excessively high, it may be kept down by quinine or other febrifuges, or by the employment of cold sponging or cold baths; the state of the excretions should be carefully attended to. These matters will be referred to more in detail when we come to speak of the treatment of Pyaemia (see Chap. X.). The only thing of any service in the local treatment, when the general symptoms persist, is to continue stuffing the wound with gauze impregnated with iodoform ; some- times when there is diffuse cellulitis in the neighbourhood, constant irrigation may be employed, to wash away the septic material as soon as it is formed. The methods of irrigating wounds have already been described under the head of Diffuse Cellulitis (see p. 30). Treatment of Wounds where the Edges are not brought together.—We have still to consider another class of wounds, made by the surgeon through unbroken skin, those, namely, where it is quite impossible, in spite of any freeing of the edges, to bring the margins of the skin together, and where, therefore, an open wound must be left. Here also it is im- portant that organisms should be excluded, and if this be successfully accomplished, and steps taken to keep the part absolutely at rest and to prevent irritation by the dressings, the space between the edges fills up with blood, and healing by blood-clot will occur. To obtain this