TUMOURS. 2/0 a flat surface, it may be done in a manner quite similar to the above. The threads are passed, divided, and tied in an exactly similar manner; the only important difference is that, as the deeper limits of the tumour are not so easily defined as when it is situated upon the lip, greater care must be taken to ensure the thread being passed below the base of the tumour. This is facilitated by pulling up the naevus from the deeper parts as the needle is introduced. After having completely shut off the tumour from the general circulation by one of these methods, small quantities of coagulant material may be injected into its interior at various points by means of a hypodermic syringe. The best material is undiluted carbolic acid, and half or a quarter of a minim may be injected in numerous places, the needle being pushed into the nsevus in various directions. After the injection the ligatures should be left on for at least ten minutes, when they may be cut and removed; by that time coagulation will be complete, and there will be no risk of the coagulating material getting into the circulation and causing embolism or a general thrombosis, both of which accidents have happened where coagulants have been injected without taking proper precautions to shut off the circulation. In making the injections care must be taken not to let the point of the needle approach too near the surface; if it does, a slough of the skin or mucous membrane and the subsequent introduction of sepsis may result. After the needle is withdrawn, pressure is applied over the puncture, which, when the bleeding ceases, is painted over with collodion. Other coagulants, such as perchloride of iron, tincture of iodine, etc., have been employed, but they are not so satisfactory or so safe in their action as carbolic acid. When carbolic acid has been injected in this way, the growth becomes hard, partly from coagulum in the vessels, and partly from inflammatory Fig. 65.—Temporary Strangulation OF A NyEVUS. Method of passing the sutures. The dotted lines indicate the threads traversing the thickness of the lip, the continuous ones indicating them as they emerge from the cutaneous and mucous surfaces. Fig. 66.—Temporary Strangulation OF A N.EVUS. Method of dividine the ligatures. It is easily seen from the dia- gram how the circulation is completely controlled by tying together the corre- sponding ends of the ligatures.