TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. 157 there is no projecting end left to catch in the dressing. Where the tension is great, a second twist must be made, and the ends cut off and bent down on to the skin. All chance of the wire catching in the dressing may be avoided by interposing a layer of oiled silk protective between the latter and the wound. A sufficient number of these deep silver wire stitches must be put in to enable the edges of the wound to be brought together without any tension. Undermining Flaps.—Where much skin has been taken away, the edges cannot usually be brought together properly with stitches unless the skin be widely freed by undermining it. By this means the skin and fat are separated from the deeper parts for a considerable distance, sometimes for a good many inches, and the elasticity of the skin allows the flap of skin thus formed to stretch, and the cut edges to meet (see also p. 178). Button Sjiiures.—Where the tension is very great, the " button sutures " introduced by Lord Lister may be employed with advantage. A needle threaded with stout silver wire (see above) is inserted through the skin several inches from the edge of the undermined flap, at the outer limit of the undermining, and the free end of this is attached to a lead button (see Fig. 48). The wire is then carried across the wound, and the needle brought out through the skin at the corresponding spot on the opposite side where the undermining ceases. The needle is then cut off, and over the cut end of the wire is threaded a second button, which is pushed as far down as possible, while firm traction is made on the wire, and the latter secured in place. Only a few of these button stitches need be put in j as a rule, in a breast case, two pairs are sufficient. The larger the button used the better; the pressure is then more evenly distributed over the skin, and there is less likelihood of sloughing. If a small button be employed, the skin may very possibly slough where the button presses upon it; in any case, a small slough generally forms where the wire pene- trates the skin, but this causes no trouble if the wound be aseptic, and it heals readily when the buttons are removed. Several stitches of relaxation will also be required to support and take off tension from the edges of the wound. These will be inserted about midway between the buttons and the edge of the wound (see above). The button stitches are usually left in for about five or six days, and they are the first sutures to be removed, partly because the skin will not retract after being stretched for that length of time, and partly because if they are left in longer they are apt to cause a slough. (c) Where there is moderate tension.—Where the traction required to bring the edges together is only moderate, a very good material for a stitch, and one that is intermediate between one of relaxation and one of coaptation, is silkworm or fishing gut. This is fairly thick, and, if a good hold of the skin be taken, the latter can be made to bear a considerable amount of tension without bad results. "Stitches of Coaptation."—For the stitches of coaptation, that is to