CHAPTER XV. TUMOURS. DEFINITION. Tumours may be defined as localised swellings which, though part of the body, tend to grow continuously and quite independently of it, and without relation to any known cause. When a tumour has formed it continues to grow and no means short of its complete removal will permanently arrest its development. It must be distinguished from hyper- trophy on the one hand and from inflammatory swellings on the other. Hypertrophy is a simple increase in the size of an organ, which, however, still retains its natural form and structure and, as far as we know, its function; inflammatory growths do not possess any inherent power of increase, and only continue to grow as long as the causes which produce them continue to act. Tumours grow either inside an investing capsule or they may be devoid of one, and they then grow by invading the surrounding tissues, destroying them and taking their place; in some cases minute portions of the tumour may be carried by the lymphatics or blood vessels to distant parts and there give rise to secondary growths. It is unnecessary here to enter fully into the question of tumours because their treatment must be discussed in detail in connection with the various organs and tissues in which they occur. All that we propose to do is to make a few general remarks concerning them in order to save future repetition. CLINICAL CLASSIFICATION.—Tumours may be classified both from a clinical and a histological point of view. Clinically they are divided into simple and malignant tumours. Simple tumours.—By a simple tumour, as for example, an ordinary lipoma, is meant one which is of slow growth; which does not, unless situated in some vital organ, produce any constitutional disturbance, such as wasting or cachexia; which does not as a rule cause pain, unless from its situation, as for example when it happens to press upon nerves; which has no inherent tendency, by destroying the skin over it, to ulcerate and fungate, and only does so when the skin has been irritated from without.