138 WOUNDS. and restless movements occur, and the patient may die at once. If any symptoms of this kind occur, the tube should at once be clamped so as to arrest the flow of the saline solution till the dangerous symptoms have passed off. Plenty of time should be taken in introducing the fluid, certainly from 20 minutes to half an hour, and it is well to stop every now and then to allow the blood in the body to be mixed thoroughly with the saline solution. In many cases, where the condition is less urgent, it is better to allow the fluid to be absorbed rather than to inject it directly into the circulation, and this may be done either by injecting the salt solution into the rectum, two or three pints at a time, or, if this be not retained, it may be injected into the peritoneal cavity, or even into the cellular tissue, especially that beneath the axillary fascia. In this way the absorption will be so regulated by the body that too rapid dilution of the blood will not take place. It may be necessary, in cases where a very large quantity of blood has been lost, to repeat the operation after the lapse of an hour or so. Usually, however, unless there be also great shock, one transfusion is sufficient to tide the patient over till a sufficient quantity of fresh corpuscles has been manufactured. Transfusion of blood, either pure, diluted or defibrinated, has so little to recommend it that we need not take up space by describing the method. Shock. Shock may be defined as a state of great depression of the vital activity, into which a patient passes as the result of sudden, severe, or prolonged irritation of the peripheral nerves, especially of the sympathetics. The condition seems to be due to extreme exhaustion of the medulla and spinal cord, resulting in marked reduction in the activity of all the vital functions. Over-stimulation of sensory nerves leads to exhaustion and temporary suspension of function of the corresponding centres, and the longer the stimulation is continued and the greater its activity, the more profound and prolonged is the suspension of function, and the less is the probability of recovery. Much depends on the part of the body operated upon; for example, a great deal of time may be spent in repairing a badly united or un-united fracture of the extremities without producing anything like the amount of shock that a much shorter and gentler operation on the abdominal cavity will cause, especially if the peritoneum be inflamed. Loss of blood also increases the risk of shock, and it is thus more marked in operations where there is a great deal of haemorrhage. Symptoms.—If shock comes on during an operation, its presence is indicated by increasing pallor of the countenance and weakness of the pulse, which becomes rapid, dicrotic, and sometimes irregular. The pupils become dilated, the reflexes are slow, there is often sweating about the forehead, and the skin becomes cold. After the operation the pulse