ADMINISTRATION OF CHLOROFORM. lOI Whichever method be employed, it must be constantly borne in mind that caxe and vigilance, on the part of the administrator, are much more important elements of success than is the ,use of any particular apparatus. Excellent results may be obtained by any plan that is systematically studied and employed. With chloroform, as with every other anaesthetic, it is very important to commence the inhalation gradually. The evaporating surface must, at first, be held some four or five inches from the face, and only brought close over the nose and mouth as consciousness is abolished and toleration established. If, as may sometimes happen even in the earlier stages, there be any retching, the anaesthetic should be pressed, when the retching will often cease; but if vomiting has actually taken place, and the contents of the stomach have regurgitated into the mouth, the anaesthetic must be Fig. 27.—Junker's Apparatus for the Administration of Chloroform. A, Hand-bellows for forcing air through the chloroform contained in the hottle B, and thence into the vulcanite facepiece C. D, Mouth tube for use with Junker's Apparatus ; the facepiece C is removed and the end a of the tube is slipped on to the rubber pipe. withdrawn, the mouth opened, and the vomited matter removed. The stage of excitement and unconscious struggling requires careful management. The condition of mental and physical turmoil is undoubtedly a dangerous one, and should not be allowed to become unduly prolonged. On the other hand, the deep inspirations which the patient sometimes takes are apt to overcharge the lungs with vapour, and so to lead to sudden respiratory and circulatory failure. The best plan, I believe, is to give the aneesthetic freely at these times, but making sure, by raising the inhaler, etc., that the amount of air is proportionately increased. It is dangerous, with chloroform especially, to bring the inhaler closer to the face while struggling is proceeding. The phenomena observed during the induction of anaesthesia with chloroform, are very similar to those already alluded to in describing ether anaesthesia (see p. 94). The stage of excitement is perhaps less marked