247 CHRONIC ABSCESS. tion can be well sustained. Steps must also be taken to diminish the amount of inflammation about the affected part, and where this is done the tendency to cure is greatly aided. The first essential point in this part of the treatment is absolute rest, whether the cause of unrest comes from without or within, for, apart from the presence of the tuberculous disease, movement promotes the inflammatory condition. When we come to deal with joints we shall have to lay stress upon another condition which must be attended to, namely, the tonic contraction of the muscles in the neigh- bourhood of the diseased joint, which leads to pressure of the inflamed articular surfaces against each other. Here, therefore, rest must be com- bined with extension, so as to tire out the muscles and prevent the violent pressure of the two surfaces against one another. Various other methods may be employed to remove the chronic inflam- mation ; these have already been referred to in full in speaking of chronic inflammation generally (see p. 17). The actual cautery, for example, is of great value in many cases of deep-seated bone and joint disease, such as disease of the spine, the hip or the shoulder joint. Pressure is also of use either combined with counter-irritation, as by Scott's dressing (see p. 21), or alone as by wrapping the joint in a large mass of wool and then applying a firm bandage over it, the bandage being prevented from slipping by rubbing into it a solution of starch or silicate. It is not necessary here to repeat the various measures for combating chronic inflammation; they are fully referred to in Chapter I. CHRONIC ABSCESS. Before leaving the general consideration of tuberculous diseases, we may discuss at greater length the question of chronic abscess, which is only another name for one of a tuberculous nature. In this condition an abscess forms without any of the cardinal symptoms of inflammation except the swelling. Pain may be absent or very slight, there is not necessarily any increase of the body temperature, though locally the affected area may feel a little warmer than the surrounding parts, and there is no redness of the skin over the seat of the disease, unless the skin itself be actually involved. The swelling is caused by the presence of fluid and differs entirely from the brawny swelling that is met with in acute abscesses. In fact the chronic abscess is, in the great majority of cases, simply a softening tuberculous deposit. Briefly, the history of a chronic abscess of the subcutaneous tissue is that it begins as a small tuberculous nodule which gradually increases in size, undergoes caseation and softens in the centre. When this occurs the inflammation around becomes a little more active, and there is an effusion of fluid along with a considerable number of leucocytes into the cheesy material; the result being an investing layer of tuberculous tissue