ACUTE INFLAMMATION. inspected every three or four hours. They are in reality of more use in bleeding or in great engorgement of the part than in inflammation. In using them for inflammation, it will be found that water at a temperature from 50° to 60° F. is usually quite sufficient. Heat.—Where the acute inflammation has lasted for two or three days, cold will no longer be of benefit; on the contrary, it will be very apt to cause damage, and under these circumstances it is best to resort to the application of heat. The mode of action of heat is somewhat difficult to explain, but whatever be the explanation, it is certain that it is a very valuable agent in acute inflammation. Where the process actually affects the skin, heat is not so generally useful, on account of its tendency to increase the congestion of the part, and in these cases it should there- fore be very sparingly used. There are two methods by which heat is usually applied to the skin over an inflamed part, viz., by poultices or by hot fomentations. A poultice is usually made with linseed meal and water, the proportions being about four tablespoonfuls of linseed meal to half a pint of water. Care must be taken that the poultice is not too heavy, and as it very quickly loses its heat, special care should be taken to see that the bowl in which it is mixed, and the material on which it is spread, are well warmed previous to use. The poultice should be made and applied as hot as the patient can bear it, and as quickly as possible. In making it, the water employed must be boiling, and the linseed meal should be well stirred as it is added, to prevent the formation of lumps or hard masses. When mixed it is turned out upon a piece of linen of suitable size, pre- viously warmed, and large enough to extend two inches all round beyond the poultice, and spread with a small spatula in an even layer about half an inch thick. The edges of the linen are then turned up around the mar- gins and the poultice is ready for use. The whole operation should be carried on before a warm fire. In the case of superficial inflammation the poultice is applied next to the skin, but here it cannot be borne so hot as where the inflammation is more deeply seated. In the latter case it is usual to place a layer of mushn between the poultice and the skin, and in this way a greater heat can be tolerated. Having applied the poultice to the part, a layer of wool, heated before the fire, is placed outside, and the whole fixed on with a bandage or a suitable binder. A poultice of this kind will generally retain its heat for about two hours, and should then be changed. In changing it, a warm soft towel should be at hand, so that when the poultice is removed the skin can be dried and gently chafed with the towel, which is left in place, and the patient again covered with blankets till a fresh poultice is ready for application. If this be not done the part becomes very cold, and all the good of the poultice may be undone by the exposure. Other materials are used for poultices, such as bread or oatmeal, but if these materials are used a little butter or oil should be added, as otherwise the poultice is apt to become too hard.