ACUTE SUPPURATION. 32 of the body. In the case of the arm, it may be made to rest upon a pillow, covered with mackintosh, the upper end of which is carefully tucked around the shoulders of the patient, and the sides so folded that a drain is formed which will prevent the bed from becoming soaked. In Fig. 8 is shown a simple method of extemporizing an irrigator where none of the ordinary forms are available. Another precaution which is necessary in employing irrigation, is to prevent the neighbourhood of the affected part becoming soddened with water, and for this purpose the skin all around may be smeared with grease or oil. Irrigation should be continued until the acuteness of the inflammation has passed off, and then it should be changed for some simple dressing; otherwise the granulations are likely to become oedematous, and a weak or oedematous ulcer is formed which will not heal properly. Perhaps the best dressing at this period is weak boracic ointment (about a quarter the strength of the pharmacopoeial ointment) spread on butter cloth, with a layer of boracic lint applied outside, or else the protective and boracic lint dressing which will be described under the treatment of ulcers (see p. 47). Another very good method of treatment, although hardly so satisfactory as irrigation, is the water bath. In irrigation the main principle is that, the secretions being washed away as rapidly as they form, no nidus remains in which micro-organisms can grow. In the case of the water bath, the discharges are not washed away so rapidly as by irrigation, but they are so diluted that the organ- isms do not find satisfactory pabulum in them; at the same time the bath supplies warmth and moisture in a very efficient manner. In either case, if an antiseptic, such as sanitas, permanganate of potash, boracic acid, or weak iodine, be added to the fluid, there is also a cer- tain amount of inhibition of the growth of the organisms. In employing the water bath, the limb is suspended, by means of a large gauze or muslin sling, in a covered Fig. 8.—Irrigator, bath (see Fig. 9), filled With water at a temperature of To show how an irrig- „ . . r 1 1 • • ator can be improvised about ICG r. and containmg onc 01 the above antiseptics from a wine bottle: the . . 1 i 1 r • 1 1 • 1 bottom of the bottle in solutiou. 1 he bath should be lurnished with a tap the neck plugged with at the lowcr part, and a gentle stream of warm water (at verse? by a piece"^of iio° F.) should flow through it by means of a syphon ^rhtersch!)^' ^^'^'^ apparatus, from a reservoir above the level of the limb; every ten or twelve hours the bath should be emptied and flushed out, as otherwise the fluid is very apt to decompose. The skin around the wound should be carefully oiled. The water bath should only, be used during the day, and during the night boracic lint, wetted with boracic lotion and covered with mackintosh, should be applied in the same way as a water dressing. The bath requires constant attention in order to