ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. 229 former case it is temporary, the hair growing again as the patient recovers, in the latter, the loss of hair is permanent. Periostitis may also occur and if left untreated may lead to permanent bony formations or nodes. Iritis and other rarer affections are also met with in the secondary period. Tertiary Stage.—Following the secondary stage, there are other phenomena which are spoken of as lesions of "Tertiary Syphilis"; these may follow immediately upon those of the secondary stage or they may occur before the latter reaches its termination. Usually however they do not appear until a considerable interval has elapsed, the patient having enjoyed in the meanwhile many years of apparently perfect health. They take the form principally of gummata or fibrosis in the various tissues and organs of the body, or obstinate ulcerations of the skin or mucous membranes. These remarks will suffice to define the disease, but it must not be forgotten that during the course of syphilis the general health is often markedly affected, and this is more especially the case during the early secondary period, when the patient becomes pale, weak and cachectic and the red blood corpuscles are diminished in number and lose a con- siderable proportion of their haemoglobin. At this stage too there is often marked pyrexia. Treatment.—The treatment of the various lesions in the different tissues and organs will be dealt with, in so far as they call for special treatment, when we come to deal with affections of the particular organ or tissue. Here we shall only refer to the treatment of syphilis in general. Prophylaxis.—From this point of view it is well to enumerate some of the chief sources and modes of contagion of syphilis; the prophylaxis will obviously consist in avoiding them. The most common source of infection is perhaps the secretion from the primary sore, but a very potent factor in the spread of the disease is the discharge from secondary lesions, such as mucous papules and condylomata; the blood also is infective during the secondary stage, and this infectivity is at its height when syphilitic manifestations are actually present. The usual mode of con- tagion is of course by sexual connection. Kissing is also a means of spreading the disease where secondary symptoms are present in the mouth or throat; in suckling also, infection may be conveyed from child to nurse or vice versa; simple sores may also become inoculated, as occurs frequently on the fingers of medical men; in the Jewish rite of circumcision a similar accident has occurred. Infection may also be conveyed by vaccination, should the blood of a syphilitic infant by chance con- taminate the vaccine lymph; lastly, it may be communicated by the employment of infected utensils, such as cups, spoons, pipes, toys, etc., which have been used by those suffering from the secondary stage of the disease. In considering the treatment of syphilis we shall discuss it in relation to the three clinical stages of the disease, namely, primary, secondary, and