53 TREATMENT OF ULCERS IN GENERAL. other, so that no part of the raw surface is left exposed, for granulations always spring up on the uncovered parts, and are apt to eat away the grafts in their vicinity; furthermore a thin scar, which may subsequently break down, is left at these points. The graft is always thinner at the edge than at the centre, and it is these thin edges which overlap each other or the edge of the ulcer; there is no real sloughing of these over- lapping edges. Dressing.—In spreading out the graft, it will be found that air bubbles collect beneath it, and also that some amount of oozing goes on, and the bubbles and clot may prevent complete adhesion of the graft. Hence the next procedure is to get rid of them by pressure. If that be attempted Fig. i6.—Thiersch's Method of Skin-grafting. Spreading tlie srafts out upon the raw surface. The overlapping of the grafts is also shown. by means of sponges or the hands, the graft is apt to be displaced. The following is the best plan: strips of protective about an inch in breadth, and long enough to overlap the edges of the wound, purified in I-20 carbolic lotion and subsequently rinsed in boracic lotion, are applied firmly over the grafted surface, beginning at the lower part. Each strip should overlap the one below, just as in the case of strapping, and they should extend well on to the skin at each end (see Fig. 17). If each strip as it is put on be grasped by the two ends and firmly pressed down on the limb, the pressure thus applied suffices both to expel the air- bubbles and blood, and also to arrest further capillary oozing. The whole surface of the skin-grafts being thus covered, ordinary cyanide gauze wrung out of 1-4000 sublimate solution is applied, with salicylic wool outside it. The limb should afterwards be placed upon a splint, or at any rate so fixed that movement cannot occur during the progress of healing. The place from which the grafts have been taken may also be dressed with the protective and gauze dressing, which need not be disturbed for