221 TETANUS. of the upper extremity, those of the abdomen, and, fortunately last of all, the muscles of respiration. The great feature of this disease is that the muscular spasm seldom relaxes altogether, while the least movement or disturbance of the patient is very apt to set up clonic contractions,—the well- known tetanic spasms. The pulse is generally pretty rapid during the course of the disease, varying from loo to 140. The temperature may be only slightly raised but usually it is up to 104° F., being naturally highest during the convulsions. Where the temperature goes higher than 104° or 105° the condition is generally very grave and, if the pyrexia be not reduced, the patient often dies of it. The respirations are normal but increase in frequency during the attack; the patient cannot swallow, the saliva runs out of the mouth, there is diminution in the amount of the urine, but no albuminuria, and there is profuse sweating after the convulsions. Varieties.—Tetanus may be either acute or chronic. The acute form accompanied by high temperature usually ends fatally in four days, and of those affected with this form only about i % recover under ordinary treatment. In the more common chronic variety the convulsions are less frequent, and not so general, but this form may become acute and death then rapidly takes place; about 20 % of the patients recover. Causes.—Tetanus most commonly occurs after wounds of the extremities. It is due to a bacillus which is anaerobic and spore-bearing, and which is commonly found in garden earth, in horse-dung and generally in places- soiled with the latter. The reason why it occurs especially after wounds- in the extremities is that they are more likely to be soiled; although lacerated wounds are those most frequently associated with tetanus, it may follow a very slight scratch. It is not the amount of laceration of a wound that is of consequence, but the soiling of it with earth. No doubt the soiling is more likely to be great where the wound is torn than where it is simply a clean incision. Causes of Death.—The causes of death in tetanus are: (i) laryngeal spasm, (2) pressure of the trachea against the spine, in cases of bad opis- thotonos, (3) spasm of the diaphragm or other respiratory muscles, (4) arrest of the heart's action either from spasm or paralysis, (5) exhaustion and inanition, and (6) hyperpyrexia. Treatment.—Prophylactic.—In the treatment of tetanus prevention is naturally the first point, and as tetanus in aseptic wounds is quite unknown, it is clear that strict purification of wounds likely to be infected with the tetanus bacillus must be carried out. Hence in all cases where a wound is soiled with earth, and where lacerated wounds have occurred from falls- in stables, gardens and so forth, the wound must be very thoroughly purified, a nail-brush being used to scrub away the earth, and the whole wound thoroughly sponged out with undiluted carbolic acid. For further details concerning the purification of wounds see p. 191. Curative.—When the disease is established there is at present at our disposal the anti-tetanic seru7n, which is undoubtedly effectual in a very