WOUNDS. 134 chief of these methods are those that tend to cause the contraction of the coats of the vessel, namely, the use of cold or heat. The application of cold to the skin over a bleeding part will lead, in the first place, to contraction of the cutaneous vessels, and reflexly to contraction of those of the deeper parts. For example, in operations about the mouth or lips, such as those for cleft palate or hare-lip, bleeding can be very quickly arrested by slapping the face with a cold wet towel, or dashing cold water upon it, or, if that fail, by the application of ice to the neighbourhood of the bleeding part. The use of Leiter's tubes, which have already been mentioned in dealing with inflammation (see p. 9), is a very effectual method of checking bleed- ing. For example, in cases of haemorrhage from the urethral mucous membrane occurring sometimes as the result of gonorrhoea, where no direct method of hsemostasis can be employed, a very excellent method is to coil Leiter's tubes around the penis, and pass a stream of ice-cold water through them. As the penis contracts with the cold, it is also well to pass a straight catheter a short distance up the urethra before fixing on the coil. The result of application of cold in this manner is that contraction of the vessels of the skin with subsequent contraction of the deeper vessels occurs, and if this be kept up for a short time coagulation will follow, and permanent occlusion of the bleeding vessels result. A piece of lint should be placed on the skin beneath the coil, and on account of the great cold which the use of these tubes may produce, the part should be looked at from time to time to see if it is becoming blue as the result of inter- ference with the circulation through it, in which case the use of the coil must, temporarily at least, be suspended. Heat.—Almost equally efficacious in arresting bleeding is heat, and douching the bleeding part with hot water has a powerful htemostatic effect. The temperature of the water generally used is from 108° to 115° Fahr., and the affection in which it is chiefly employed is postpartum haemorrhage, the uterus being freely flooded with water at this temperature, Styptics.—Haemorrhage may also be arrested by producing coagu- lation of the blood as it escapes from the vessel, and this is done by the use of styptics. In employing styptics it is useless to pour the solution into or to swab a bleeding wound with it. The bleeding must, in the first instance, be temporarily arrested, because, if the styptic is to act efficiently, the clot produced by it must form not on the surface of the wound, but actually in the orifice of the bleeding vessel. Hence the bleeding area is pinched up between the finger and thumb, and the bleeding thus tem- porarily arrested; it is then painted over with the styptic solution, and the pressure is maintained for a short time in order to keep the wound from bleeding, and to give the styptic time to act. The styptics usually employed are the liquor ferri perchlor, B.P., or the liquor ferri perchloridi fort, mixed with equal parts of glycerine, or tincture of matico. While per- chloride of iron is the best styptic, it is objectionable in that it very often