57 TREATMENT OF INDIVIDUAL ULCERS. parts should be supported for some time by Unna's bandage; massage should also be used, more especially if the scar be hard and fixed j,nd the muscles atrophied. The legs should be frequently immersed in a warm bath and lanoline rubbed into the skin so as to soften the epidermis. Special points in the treatment of the various forms of Ulcer.— The foregoing remarks as to treatment apply to all ulcers, but it will now be well to mention certain points peculiar to the treatment of the individual forms. (1) Simple Ulcer.—The sim[)le ulcer is one that is prevented from healing by various local causes not usually of a serious character. The chief of these are standing and walking, especially if varicose veins are present or the patient is advanced in years. If these causes be removed, and the limb placed at rest in a suitable position, the sore will quickly heal. In the treatment of a simple ulcer, then, the patient should be put to bed, the leg elevated on a pillow, and fixed if necessary, and suitable dressings applied to the part. It is well to disinfect the surface of the ulcer (see p. 46), but where the surface is comparatively healthy it is hardly neces- sary to destroy the granulations by means of pure carbolic acid; in such instances, powdering the sore with iodoform will usually suffice. The best dressing is the quarter-strength boracic ointment, used as described on p. 48, and changed either every day or every alternate day. When the ulcer is large, and especially if the patient be old, skin-grafting (see 50) should be employed with a view of obtaining a permanent cure. (2) Infiamed Ulcer.—Here there is not only ulceration but also acute inflammation, and both conditions require treatment. The patient should be put to bed with the leg elevated, and warm antiseptic fomentations applied. The best of these is boracic lint dipped in warm 1-4000 sublimate solution or boracic lotion, applied wet over the ulcer and the skin in the vicinity, and overlapped in all directions by gutta-percha tissue or mackintosh. This dressing should be changed twice a day at least, and oftener if the inflammation be severe or the pain acute. Before doing this it is well to disinfect the surface of the sore by the application of undiluted carbolic acid, and then to powder it with iodoform once or twice a day for a few days. Another important point is local depletion. We have previously mentioned the fact (see p. 39) that where these ulcers are multiple they are separated by bridges of skin, which are much swollen and inflamed, and are prone to become gangrenous. The division of these bridges will often prevent the impending gangrene, and the consequent loss of tissue, while at the same time it allows the escape of exudation and of blood, and so improves the inflammatory condition. Even where these bridges of skin are not present, considerable improvement will be obtained in an ulcer of this kind by making incisions into the inflamed tissues around, the cuts radiating from the centre of the ulcer. When the inflammation has subsided the treatment is that of a healing sore. (Boracic ointment