LOCAL ANESTHESIA. 119 forcing down a hernia; that they can often be used when a general anesthetic would be inadvisable, e.g. in cases of collapse, and in the very emaciated and feeble; that, on the whole, some of the methods, e.g. freezing, are safer, and are less likely to be followed by disagreeable after-effects. Against this list of advantages, must be balanced the rather more weighty objections that they are uncertain in action, and cannot always be relied upon to produce the desired effect, so that it is usually necessary to hold a general antesthetic in reserve, to be used if required; the element of shock is seldom abolished or even diminished; the tissues are unrelaxed; the appearance of the surrounding parts is so altered by the oedema, etc., that dissection becomes almost impossible, and it is open to question whether the healing of the wound be not retarded; the fear of the operation, and the very disturbing element of the sight of instruments, blood, etc., has always to be reckoned with, even in the apparently robust and firm-minded. Cases suitable.—A careful study of the lists which have been published, of operations which can be and have been performed by the aid of local anaesthetics, and having regard to the attendant circumstances of the cases recorded, leads one to the conclusion that, as far as our present knowledge goes, the only occasions on which local can claim any real advantage over general anaesthesia are as follows, viz., (1) In very brief cases where no dissection is required, e.g. simple puncture or incision of small abscesses, and when nitrous oxide is not available or is objected to. (2) In the aged, whose whole nervous system and tissues generally are often less sensitive than in younger people. (3) In those who are much collapsed, or feeble and emaciated, and in whom, therefore, there is reason to fear the effect of a general anaesthetic in depressing the already reduced vitality. (4) In ophthalmic surgery, and in some operations involving the super- ficial mucous membranes, e.g. nasal polypi. Although special preparation of the patient is not so imperatively called for as with general anaesthesia, it is, nevertheless, of advantage, that the general condition should be improved by careful regulation of the diet, etc., for a few days beforehand. Purging or starving are not, of course, at all necessary; in fact, it is better that the patient should have a cup of hot broth or beef-tea immediately before the operation; this may counteract any tendency to syncope, and for the same reason a little stimulant is not objectionable. Whenever possible, the patient should be recumbent. Methods.—-The local methods most in use at the present time may be considered under the following heads, viz.: (i) Freezing; (2) Drugs; (3) Infiltration. Freezing-. The anaesthetic properties of intense cold have long been made use of in practical surgery. In operative work, the cases most suitable for