235 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. tested carefully each time before use, because it very quickly becomes eroded and might break off in the tissues. The skin should be disinfected by rubbing it first with absolute alcohol and then with 1-20 carbolic acid, and the needle should be rapidly inserted deeply at right angles to the skin, care being taken that when this is done the patient does not start, as otherwise the contraction of the glutei may break the needle. If the muscle be firmly pressed upon around the area of injection it will tend to prevent any sudden contraction when the needle enters. The treatment is continued until the gums become tender, and then Keyes' method (see p. 233) may be resorted to, the injections being resumed if any fresh symptoms make their appearance. {d) Local Treatment m secondary syphilis is usually of considerable benefit; the eruptions are often favourably affected by the local application of mercury in one of its different forms. Eruptions on the face may often be made to disappear quickly by the use of emplastrum hydrargyri, the patient being meanwhile treated constitutionally by one or other of the methods already described. The plaster should be renewed every night; it may be usefully employed also in cases of skin eruptions elsewhere. Condylomata and mucous patches also disappear very rapidly where local treatment is combined with the internal administration of mercury. They should be washed night and morning, dried and dusted over with a powder consisting of one part of calomel and three parts of starch. Tertiary Syphilis.—(a) General treatment. During this stage the lesions will be removed much more rapidly by means of iodide of potassium than by mercury. We usually begin with fifteen grains of the iodide of potassium three times a day, and if this does not suffice to influence the lesions rapidly, the dose may be increased up to thirty or forty grains. The iodide should be taken from half an hour to an hour after meals, and it is well to give it with tincture of orange peel or syrup of cinchona in order to avoid griping. Some patients cannot take iodide of potassium; and if it be administered they at once suffer severely from coryza, pustular eruptions on the skin, pains in the bones, etc. In such cases the sodium or strontium salt may be substituted for that of potassium, but if these cannot be borne resort must immediately be had to mercurial inunction or intra-muscular injections. It is a curious fact that patients suffer less from the physiological action of iodide of potassium in large than in small doses, and, before giving up the drug entirely, one or two large doses at any rate should be tried. In ordering iodide of potassium for tertiary syphilis it must be remembered that its action is only to cause disappearance of the syphiHtic lesions and that it has no permanent curative effect. In most cases, therefore, it is well, especially in syphilis of important organs, such as the brain, the liver, etc., to give the patient a mercurial course, either by the mouth or by inunction, at the same time that he is being treated with the iodide of potassium. After the gums have become affected the mercury may be given up. {b) Local treatment. As in the secondary lesions, the local application