WOUNDS. Treatment. — (a) Of Open Granulating Wounds. — Unless these wounds are extensive, involve important structures, or are situated on parts exposed to frequent movement, they generally heal pretty readily, so long as there is free exit for the discharges. The first essential in treatment is to see that there is no retention of discharge anywhere, and if the in- flammation be only slight the ordinary antiseptic cyanide gauze dressing (see p. 169) may be used and changed daily; where, however, the dis- charge is foul, the use of iodoform in addition to the gauze dressings is indicated. Where there is much inflammation in the wound and the neighbouring parts, and especially if the wound be lacerated or contused, constant irrigation (see p. 30) may be usefully employed. Wherever the wounds are in important situations, such as the palm of the hand, or close to and involving tendon sheaths, bones, and the like, it is advisable in addition to make an attempt to obtain thorough and immediate disinfection of the part. This can only be done by putting the patient under a general anaesthetic, scraping away the whole of the granulation tissue from the surface of the wound with a flushing spoon (see Fig. 55), and sponging it over with undiluted carbolic acid. Iodoform may then be liberally sprinkled over it and the ordinary cyanide gauze dressings applied. Where the wound is more or less superficial and freely exposed to view, this pro- cedure will generally secure its disinfection. If there be any objection to the administration of an anaesthetic, and if the wound be small, a similar result may be obtained by stuffing it with lint or gauze soaked in strong carbolic oil (1-5) and applied to the wound without being wrung out; the stuffing is changed night and morning, and the surrounding skin is washed with a 1-20 carbolic acid solution. The strong carbolic oil does not actually act as a caustic, but it prevents healing, and therefore, as soon as the wound has assumed a healthy appearance, it should be discontinued and strong boracic ointment used till healing at the edge commences, when the weaker ointment (| strength) is substituted. (d) Where Septic Sinuses are present.—Where septic sinuses are present within the area of operation, as, for example, in removing necrosed bone, they should be thoroughly scraped out with a sharp spoon, and swabbed with undiluted carbolic acid, before the operation is begun, so as to avoid infection of the freshly cut surface as far as possible. After the operation has been completed, the septic cavity must be again scraped thoroughly, and undiluted carbolic acid applied, and the walls of the sinuses should be cut away as completely as possible. In this way, an aseptic wound will be obtained in a considerable number of cases; the edges can then be brought together by silkworm gut stitches, (after the insertion of one or more large drainage tubes into the depths of the wound), the ordinary antiseptic dressings applied, and the wound treated as if made through unbroken skin. Should the attempt to purify the wound fail, the best and simplest dressing is boracic ointment or boracic lint. Where, however, the cavity in the deeper parts is large, as after operations