213 PYEMIA. •considerable portion of the diseased tissues, and at the same time allowing free access to the mischief in the pelvis. By careful removal of as much of this as possible, followed by disinfection and free drainage of the wound (see above), the disease may be completely arrested. When hectic fever results from long-standing empyema, it may be cured by bringing about closure of the wound by Estlander's operation, or, failing that, by main- taining free drainage. Both these conditions will be referred to in more •detail in their proper place. General.—As in all other exhausting diseases, the general treatment is to support the patient's strength by nourishing food, fresh air, good hygienic conditions, etc., and to give tonics, such as iron and quinine, with stimulants if necessary. PY/EMIA. The gravest of the infective diseases of wounds is that known as pyaemia; it usually comes on from a week to ten days after an operation or an injury. The traumatic fever has generally passed off, and the temperature has nearly reached the normal, when the patient suddenly has a rigor, usually a very severe one, which lasts perhaps from twenty to forty minutes. The temperature immediately rises to 103° or 104° F., remains at that point for perhaps half an hour or more, and then begins to fall while, coincidently with the fall, there is profuse sweating. The phenomena of pytemia thus very much resemble those of ague; there is first the cold stage, then the hot one, and finally the sweating. The temperature after the attack may fall in a few hours to what it was before the onset of the rigor, or even to normal, and for a day or two the patient may seem fairly well. Then there is another rigor, the same series of phenomena recurs, and so the case progresses, with constantly recurring rigors, the intervals between which steadily diminish, while the temperature in the intervals does not fall as low as before. The patient often becomes jaundiced, and signs of abscesses in the lung, joints, etc., manifest themselves, albuminuria develops, and death generally occurs about eight or ten days after the first onset of the disease. Pathology.—Although pyaemia probably is essentially due to the same organisms as those that cause septicaemia, it differs widely from the latter, not only in its clinical characters but also in the pathological changes met with. From the point of view of treatment, the pathological con- dition in pyeemia is extremely important. The disease is undoubtedly due to the pyogenic organisms, the one most frequently found being the streptococcus pyogenes. The lesions found after death are abscesses in various organs, and suppuration in connection with various serous membranes ; the abscesses are most numerous in the lung in the majority of cases, or in the liver if the wound be in connection with the bowel. The pathology of pyjemia is apparently that, in the first place, a vein in the neighbourhood •of the wound becomes inflamed and thrombosed, and then organisms