WOUNDS. up, and the surgeon is handed a long suture for the purpose, it is a good plan to keep the slack of the thread as much as possible in the basin of lotion at the side of the field of operation, used for dipping the hands, etc., as otherwise it is often difficult to keep it out of the way of objects that have not been rendered aseptic. Certain precautions as to dress must be taken by the surgeon and his assistants in order to avoid accidental contamination of the wound during the course of an operation. The sleeves should be rolled, pinned or otherwise fastened up well above the elbow, so that they cannot by any chance come into contact with the wound. This is a much better plan than that of wearing " operating sleeves" or cuffs, which is somewhat common. If the latter are worn they should be treated in precisely the same manner as the antiseptic towels (see above); mackintosh sleeves alone should never be worn as they cannot be safely rendered aseptic. Most surgeons also wear some form of operating apron, reaching from above the collar to the ground. The best form is that made of the thin jaconet, used for operation mackintoshes, and it should be well washed over with the strong mixture prior to commencing the operation. As this cannot, however, be made and kept aseptic during the operation with any certainty, and as some part of it is very likely, especially if the surgeon be stout, to come into contact with instruments, or even the field of operation as the surgeon bends over it, it is well to have in addition one of the antiseptic towels mentioned above (or some similar contrivance) pinned to it over the chest and abdomen. Each assistant should take precautions similar to those employed by the surgeon. Management of Sponges.—The sponges when removed from the jar in which they are kept, should be rinsed in a 1-2000 sublimate solution, and during the course of the operation they should never be washed in ordinary water. When they have become soaked with blood they should first be squeezed as dry as possible, then rinsed and- squeezed thoroughly in a cold 1-2000 subHmate solution, and placed in a vessel containing a similar warm solution, which is handed to the surgeon. The surgeon then wrings the sponge dry before he uses it. The nurse should of course disinfect her hands; but, as she is constantly soiling them, she should not be allowed to wring out the sponges and hand them dry to the surgeon; this is an important point which is constantly neglected. Avoidance of Aerial Infection.—At one time considerable stress was laid upon the chance of wound infection by the air, but we now know that the organisms generally met with in the air are saprophytes, which do not grow in the tissues; in fact, they are non-parasitic organisms. Hence the risk from organisms falling into the wound from the air, and giving rise to trouble, is comparatively slight. At the same time it must be admitted that in a hospital ward, where a case of erysipelas may be present, there would be such a risk, and in hospital practice there must always be a certain degree of danger from this source. In the method we recommend