CHAPTER VII. WOUNDS. MODES OF HEALING. It may be well, before discussing the treatment of wounds, to refer very shortly to the modes in which they heal. There are five methods by which healing may take place, namely: healing by first intention, by blood clot, under a scab, by granulation, and by union of granulations. The particular form of healing which occurs depends, in the first place, on whether the edges of the wound are brought together or remain apart, and, in the second place, on whether causes of suppuration gain access to the wound, either at the time of its infliction or at some subsequent period. The immediate result of the infliction of a wound is bleeding, and blood clot forms on the cut surface. When this clot is wiped off it is found that exudation is taking place beneath; in other words, as the result of the irritation of the knife and the contact of foreign bodies, a narrow micro- scopic layer of inflammation, going on as far as the end of the first stage—namely, exudation—has been set up. The result in all wounds, whatever their nature, whether the edges are brought together or not, is that lymph {i.e. coagulated fibrin entangling white corpuscles) is poured out and glazes the surface. Healing by "First intention."—Where no further causes of inflam- mation come into play, notably where no bacteria are present, this lymph remains, and if the edges of the wound are brought into apposition, it glues the two surfaces together. It then soon becomes infiltrated with cells: at first leucocytes, and, later on, larger plasma cells pass into it. These plasma cells apparently feed on the remains of the white corpuscles and destroy them, and they themselves enlarge, become spindle-shaped, and form young fibrous tissue. The result is that, while after the first 24 hours the two cut surfaces are separated by a layer of young cells, in the course of three or four days the cells have become spindle-shaped and some of them are already forming young fibrous tissue. New blood- vessels are also developed very much in the same manner as in the embryo. As time goes on, the fibrous tissue between the two cut surfaces