WOUNDS i6o we seldom dress a wound until about ten days after the operation, unless these sutures have been employed. Avoidance of Movement.—The importance of avoiding movement of any part in which healing by first intention is aimed at, has already been referred to (see p. 150), and this should be provided for in all wounds. In operations on the extremities, a suitable splint must be applied to control the movements of the neighbouring joints, and this should be kept on for about a week or ten days. In operations upon the abdomen a firm binder will usually ensure rest, if the patient be forbidden to sit up. In breast operations the arm should be so fixed that the pectoral muscles are kept at rest. In operations about the neck, it is usual to put on an extra amount of dressing, which is firmly fixed with a bandage, so that, when the deeper part becomes stiffened by the dried blood, and is supported by the large mass of dressing outside it, it practically forms a splint for the head and neck: some surgeons employ a specially moulded collar of poroplastic material or guttapercha, but this is rarely necessary. Avoidance of Irritation.—Care must also be taken to prevent irritation of the wound by antiseptic solutions or dressings; but if a wound be not dressed till it has healed, as is our usual rule, there will of course be no irritation resulting from antiseptic lotions. The chief point of importance, therefore, centres in the choice of the dressings, which must not exert any chemical or mechanical irritation. With regard to the former point, care is taken that the gauze placed next the wound shall not contain any soluble irritating antiseptic substance; this will again be dealt with immediately. The mere presence of the gauze over a wound, the edges of wliich have been properly brought together, does not at all interfere with healing by first intention, particularly if the wound be left undisturbed for a week or ten days. Where silver stitches are used, the ends of the wire are very prone to become entangled in the gauze, and any movements of the patient may drag upon them; this can be avoided by interposing, between the line of incision and the gauze dressing, a narrow strip of Lister's protective oiled silk, previously sterilised by immersion in 1-20 carbolic lotion and then washed in 1-2000 subhmate solution immediately before being applied. Where button stitches are used, each button should also be covered with a piece of this material, but care must be taken that the dressing overlaps the latter for a considerable distance in all directions; if not, sepsis may very readily spread in beneath it. Exclusion of Micro-OrganismS.—The next point in the treatment of wounds, namely, the exclusion of micro-organisms, is most important; indeed, it is the really essential one. Even if the steps necessary for the exclusion of micro-organisms were to interfere with healing by first intention, it would still be incumbent on the surgeon to see that they were carried out, on account of the disastrous results that follow the entrance of micro- organisms into a wound. As a matter of fact, however, they can be