Hi*:MORRHAGE. 127 20 grains of sulphonal two hours before bedtime for two evenings preceding the operation may be substituted. Selection of room and its preparation—In private practice a room with a good light should be chosen, and a narrow table of sufficient height is essential to comfort. For this purpose, either a kitchen table or two small dressing tables placed end to end answer the purpose per- fectly; if these be unobtainable, a couple of trestles with a board resting upon them can usually be fitted up. In town practice, it is sometimes advisable to carry one's own operating table, and light tables for this purpose can now be obtained of most instrument makers. Upon the table are placed a folded blanket and a pillow, and over the blanket, opposite the seat of operation, is laid a piece of mackintosh covered with a folded sheet, so as to keep the blanket and the patient's clothing dry. The mackintosh should not be spread over the whole table, as is customary among nurses, for, if this be done, the fluid soaks into the patient's clothes, and he is very soon lying in a pool of water. The mackintosh should be limited to the seat of operation, covered with a thickly folded sheet, and tucked into the clothing above and below that area. DANGERS OF OPERATION, AND HOW GUARDED AGAINST. The chief immediate risks of the operation are the dangers of the anaesthetic, loss of blood and shock; of somewhat less importance is the occurrence of syncope, while the risks of the introduction of sepsis must never be lost sight of. The first and last of these points are dealt with in their proper place; we may here, however, consider the others. Haemorrhage. The question of bleeding is one of great importance. Bleeding may be arterial, venous, or capillary in nature. In arterial bleeding blood of a bright red colour spurts from the cut vessel synchronously with the systole of the heart, and flows continuously during the diastole. In venous bleeding there is a steady flow of dark blood, except in the case of the veins of the neck, where it flows in jets at each expiration with a steady flow between. Capillary bleeding is an oozing from the surface of the wound. Mode of spontaneous arrest of bleeding.—Bleeding from any of these sources may cease spontaneously, or special means may be necessary to arrest it. The mode in which haemorrhage ceases spontaneously differs according to the blood-vessels concerned in the bleeding. In the case of the arteries, when divided transversely the circular fibres of the muscular coat contract so that the orifice of the vessel is narrowed; at the same time the internal and middle coats curl up in the interior of the vessel, and the longitudinal fibres contract and shorten it, so that it