257 TUMOURS OF THE CONNECTIVE TISSUE TYPE. in which are found the characteristic branched ramifying cells, and often also a large proportion of the round variety. They contain elastic, fibrous and fatty tissue, and they possess but few capillary blood-vessels. They are encapsuled, nodular and soft, and yield a gummy mucous fluid on scraping. They are simple; they do not tend to recur if properly removed; they grow in the fat, in the subcutaneous and intermuscular tissues, in the skin, mucous membranes, nerves, salivary glands, etc., and they occur perhaps most often in the region of the parotid gland. They are slow- growing, well limited, mobile, soft and semi-fluctuating, and, in the case of the nerves, they may be multiple. The treatment is to remove the myxoma completely, and with it the capsule, cutting through the healthy tissue beyond the tumour. The Fibromata consist of fully-formed connective tissue; and they occur in two varieties—the soft and the hard fibroma. The soft form is more cellular than the hard, and contains delicate fibrous bundles not closely approximated. Its usual seat is on the skin, where it occurs either in the form of moUuscum fibrosum or of moles. The hard fibroma is composed of dense fibrous tissue, showing a concentric arrangement around the vessels. The blood-vessels, especially the veins, have no sheaths, and remain open when divided. It is nodular, whitish-grey, creaks under the knife when cut, and contains large cavernous venous spaces. It occurs wherever there is dense connective tissue, in the skin, in the connective tissues, especially the fasciae, in the nerves, periosteum, etc. The fibromata are simple tumours which grow slowly, and are only injurious when they press upon important structures. They undergo various forms of degeneration, such as serous infiltration, calcification, or cystic formation, the latter condition resulting from fatty or mucous degeneration. Treatment.—The hard fibromata should be removed, and, where they possess a definite capsule, they may generally be shelled out of it with ease, but in many cases, where they occur in connection with the fasciae, the capsule is not well defined, and it is necessary to take away this structure along with them. There is no tendency to recurrence after proper removal. In the case of soft fibromata the pedunculated molluscum fibrosum can be snipped off, and a very small scar is left. Moles can only be excised; they have no capsule. Care must be taken in removing a large fibroma not to cut into its substance, for the vessels are embedded in the tissues and are unable to retract, and large cavernous veins are often present, and therefore the bleeding may be very severe. This fact must be borne in mind in connection with fibromata in the naso-pharynx, where it is most essential to avoid cutting into the substance of the tumour on account of the most alarming and uncontrollable hasmorrhage which might result. If such an accident should happen, the tumour must be ablated as quickly as possible, when the vessels leading to it will generally very rapidly contract, and the haemorrhage will cease spontaneously; even if this be not the case, the bleeding points will be much more readily accessible. R