93 ADMINISTRATION OF ETHER. one of the advantages of ether which is sometimes overlooked, that, if need be, it can be administered to a patient sitting up, without very much additional risk; preference should, however, always be given to the recumbent position, as the increased muco-salivary secretion can then be got rid of more easily. Apparatus and Administration.—In an emergency, an inhaler for ether can be made by twisting two or three folds of brown paper into a cone, like a grocer's sugar-bag, pinning the folds together, pushing a wide-meshed sponge well up into the apex of the cone, tearing off the extreme tip to admit air, and shaping the mouth of the bag to fit over the nose and chin; the ether is poured upon the sponge. Of course, better results will be obtained when a properly constructed inhaler is used. In Fig. 20 the well-known Clover's (small and portable) Inhaler is shown. Two ounces of ether are poured into the ether chamber through the opening 5. The inner tube, with the facepiece attached, is thrust up through the corresponding opening in the ether chamber, the index p carefully adjusted to the mark 0 on the body of the chamber, and the facepiece F placed over the mouth and nose of the patient. After a few breaths have been taken, and the patient has become accustomed to the apparatus, the bag B is fixed on to the end of the tube which will be found flush with the upper opening in the ether chamber. A few breaths in and out of the bag are allowed, and then, during an expiration, the body of the chamber is gently rotated, either to the right or to the left, for the space of about a quarter of an inch, or even less; a few more breaths being allowed, another rotation of about the same extent is made. These movements are repeated at short intervals until, finally, the index points to about the 3, at which position it is maintained until a sufficiently profound degree of narcosis is obtained. Each movement of the ether chamber should be a little larger than that which immediately precedes it, should be made during an expiration, and no additional onward movement should take place so long as coughing, spasm, or other indication that the vapour is producing undue irritation is present. It is seldom, if ever, necessary to give a greater strength of vapour than that indicated above, and, in fact, when the primary skin incisions have been made, and the patient has become quiet, and saturated with ether, it is, in many cases, advisable to diminish the strength of the vapour by turning the ether chamber back to the 2, or even to the i. Another very useful and somewhat simpler form of apparatus is that known as Ormsby's Inhaler, shown in section in Fig. 21. In this inhaler the means for regulating the strength of the vapour, even approximately, are not very accurate, and, consequently, it requires some practice before it can be used with certainty. The great point is, to commence with only a drachm or two on the sponge at first, and to allow a free entrance of air through the valve and under the edge of the facepiece, until the patient becomes thoroughly accustomed to the drug.