89 ADMINISTRATION OF NITROUS OXIDE. Phenomena.—After a very few respirations the colour of the face com- mences to change, becoming more and more dusky, or uniformly livid. Gradually, too, the breathing becomes harsher, and changes to a regular snore, which, in its turn, gives place, to an irregular, jerky, laryngeal stertor; at or about the same time, or sometimes even before the laryngeal stertor is noticed, twitching of the superficial muscles of the eyelids, mouth, neck, etc., or of the tendons of the thumbs and fingers will be seen; and, if the inhalation were to be continued beyond this, well-marked jactitation of the limbs, or even opisthotonic spasm of the whole body, would result. Usually, but not always, the pupils dilate, and the conjunctivae may or may not become insensitive to touch, but the eye reflex is not a reliable sign of the sufficiency of the anaesthesia. Whichever is first observed, the irre- gular laryngeal stertor, or the twitching of the muscles and tendons, is the indication for withdrawing the facepiece. After the facepiece has been withdrawn, the first few breaths of air are followed,by a reactionary redness or blush about the face, etc., and this is an important landmark for the administrator; not until it occurs is he quite free from anxiety. Complications.—The action of nitrous oxide is really remarkably uniform, and complications rare; but still it must be borne in mind that accidents have happened, and that deaths have occurred both from syncope and asphyxia. It should be a rule, therefore, to keep a finger on the temporal pulse, both during the inhalation, and until the reactionary flush occurs; if the pulse disappear, the patient should be at once put in the recumbent position, and the ordinary treatment for syncope adopted. Asphyxia may be due to a foreign body, e.g. a tooth, and it also seems likely to occur in patients suffering from a condition of more or less acute inflammation of the fauces and trachea. In asphyxiated patients, the first thing to do is to pass the finger well to the back of the throat to I'ree the air-way, and to see if perchance a foreign body can be felt and removed. Failing this, the patient should first be bent sharply forward, and encouraged to cough by patting the back, etc.; if this does not give relief, he may be turned over on the side, and, if this fails, the question of tracheotomy, or better, laryngotomy will have to be considered. Hysterical patients sometimes give trouble by struggling and screaming; this is best overcome by compressing the reservoir bag, and so forcing the gas into the lungs, taking care, of course, to cut off the action of the valves in the stop-cock. Children and anaemic girls are apt to pass quickly and deeply under the influence of the gas, and to become opisthotonic; the facepiece, therefore, should be removed immediately the slightest twitching or stertor occurs. The after-effects of nitrous oxide may be said to be practically nil, and this is one of its great advantages. Neurotic patients are sometimes hysterical, very rarely there is a little sickness, but, in by far the majority of cases, the patient is quite able to leave the house, or walk about within ten minutes or a quarter of an hour of the inhalation.