DIFFICULTIES AND DANGERS. I15 the end of the bed. One theory explaining the action of this proceeding is, that it empties the blood from the abdominal viscera towards the heart and brain. The effect, therefore, is one of mechanical stimulus, and, if this be so, one can understand the advice which is given not to prolong the position for more than a few minutes at a time. (6) In adults, even while inversion is being tried, artificial respiration may be started, commencing slowly and gradually. The well-known Sylvester's method is the one usually adopted. Standing at the patient's head, a firm grasp is taken just below the elbows, and the arms brought outwards and upwards with a rotatory movement, some force being used to cause the forearms to cross above the head; expiration is brought about by reversing the movemeiiit, pressing the arms firmly against the chest walls so that the forearms cross over the front of the chest. In Howard's method, which is a most valuable adjunct to the above, the surgeon kneels astride of the patient, places his outspread palms over the margins of the ribs, pushes up the abdominal viscera against the diaphragm, and then allows them to fall away, and so alternately diminishes and increases the capacity of the thorax. In infants, too, it is useful to remember that pressure on the abdomen upwards towards the diaphragm, or upon the costo-diaphragmatic margin is often more effectual than anything else. When possible, these two methods should be carried out simultaneously, but in any event, the movements should not be made roughly or too rapidly; about sixteen or seventeen to the minute is ample. It has been urged against these two plans of artificial respiration, that there is a danger of pumping up the contents of the stomach into the pharynx, and so practically drowning the patient, and the Marshall, Hall method of turning the patient alternately upon his face and side has been suggested as an alternative. But the objection can hardly apply unless the movements have been made altogether too violently and too quickly, and mention is only made of it here in order to emphasize these points, and to put the administrator on his guard. In the majority of cases, if the breathing has shown no signs of re- commencement after artificial respiration has been continued for five or ten minutes, the prognosis is exceedingly grave; but it is not altogether hope- less, so that, while still persevering with the artificial respirations, some of the following plans should be adopted by the assistants. It must be quite understood, however, that these plans are to be carried out concurrently with the artificial respiration, and on no account is the latter to be super- seded by them. (7) Cold affusions in the shape of douches or flipping the chest with wet towels. Alternate very hot and cold sponges to the perineum. (8) Inhalation of nitrite of amyl to alter the distribution of the intra- vascular tension. Strong ammonia held to the nose. (9) Electricity.—Either the interrupted (Faradic) or the continuous current may be used. One pole is applied to some neutral point, e.g. the