TUBERCULOSIS. 250 jected and the skin wound stitched up. In doing this it is well to include in the stitch not only the skin, but also the opening through the fascia. The use of the iodoform emulsion is not absolutely essential. Some cases seem to do as well without it; on the whole, however, we are of opinion that better results are obtained when it is employed. In abscesses treated by this method the skin incision usually heals by first intention, and in a certain number of cases no re-accumulation takes place. In some, however, it is found that after a few weeks some deep- seated fluctuation is present, and this is not remarkable, since the actual cause of the abscess, namely, the spinal disease, is but seldom accessible to radical treatment {i.e. the removal of the primary focus of the disease). When accumulation takes place, and is found after a week or two to be increasing, a fresh incision should be made into the sac and the fluid again evacuated. The sac will be very much smaller than it was originally, and the fluid of a brown serous character containing iodine and iodoform. The sac wall should again be scraped, flushed out, and injected with iodoform and glycerine as in the first operation. In many cases two operations suffice to cure even a large abscess of this kind. In some, however, three or even more are requisite, but in the great majority of cases the patient can be got well in this way much more quickly and much more certainly than by the old plan of draining the abscess. Some- times the wound, after healing by first intention, gives way and a small sinus forms in the scar. Should this happen, the wound must be opened up, scraped out thoroughly and stitched up as before, after the sinus has been carefully dissected out. If this be not done the sinus may take as long to heal as it was wont to do when the old plan of simple drainage was employed. Even should a sinus again form, the same procedure should be repeated. The old plan, adopted by Lord Lister when antiseptic treatment first came into use, was to open and drain these abscesses, and, as a matter of fact, the great majority (from 70 per cent, to 80 per cent.) so treated healed ultimately, provided they were kept aseptic; but the healing was tedious, and on an average about eight months was required, and, of course, owing to the frequent dressings that were necessary, there was constantly a danger of sepsis. It is needless to say that these operations must be performed strictly antiseptically; the entrance of septic organisms or even of saprophytes would very seriously endanger the patient's life. Before the introduction of anti- septic treatment very few cases of psoas abscess recovered. Along with the local treatment of these chronic abscesses, the general health, must be attended to on the principles already laid down, namely, good hygienic conditions, absolute rest to the part, and the administration of cod liver oil and nourishing diet. We shall have to deal with this subject of chronic abscess again in connection with tuberculous disease in the various organs. What has just been said will suffice to indicate the general principles of the treatment."