TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. 169 (2) Where a cavity is ie/i.—For example, after excision of one half of the thyroid gland a cavity is left into which bleeding is very apt to occur, for pressure cannot be applied satisfactorily without interfering with the trachea; in these and similar cases the tem- porary use of a' drainage tube is advisable. (3) JVkere the patient is spare.—lx\ these subjects the skin is thin and there is only a small amount of subcutaneous fat, so that pressure could not be employed without risk of sloughing. (4) In very fat people.—Wounds in very stout people seem to fill with oil, and this apparently interferes with the proper healing of the wound; in these cases also it is well to employ drainage. (5) Where there is a risk of sepsis.—Drainage should always be employed where a sinus or ulcer is present at the seat of operation, lest the attempt to disinfect them prove unsuccessful. When a drainage tube is introduced it need not extend the whole length of the wound so long as it passes into the deeper parts of it, and it is well, in order to avoid the risk of displacement of the tube, to stitch the outer end to the edges of the skin after cutting the tube flush with the surface. Drainage tubes need not be left in a wound longer than three or four days unless sepsis occurs. If it be desired to leave a particularly small scar, a few strands of horse-hair or catgut (preferably horse-hair), or a wisp of cyanide gauze, will suffice to form a fine capillary drain. Dressings.—After having completed the operation, stitched up the wound, and arranged for drainage if necessary, the next point is the appli- cation of the dressing. The blood should be washed away from the neighbourhood of the wound with the 1-2000 sublimate solution, and then a suitable antiseptic dressing applied. It is as well, during the process of washing away the blood from about the wound, etc., to protect the wound from infection by means of a piece of cyanide gauze soaking in 1-2000 sublimate solution ; this is removed when the dressing is ready to be applied. At the present time the tendency is towards the use of dry dressings, which possess two great advantages. In the first place, the blood dries quickly in them and does not therefore form a suitable soil for the development of organisms, and consequently, if the dressings are not quite aseptic, or the skin be not completely disinfected, the organisms may be unable to grow and reach the wound. In the second place, the dried up blood- stained dressings adhere to the skin and form a sort of splint, which keeps the edges of the wound absolutely at rest. Lister's Cyanide Gauze.—The most universally applicable and most satisfactory dressing yet introduced is the latest dressing proposed by Lord Lister, viz., gauze impregnated with the double cyanide of mercury and zinc. Certain precautions must be taken in using this dressing. As supplied from the manufacturer, it contains an amount of free corrosive sublimate which, if brought in contact with the skin, might, in delicate skins at any rate, lead to blistering. Hence the free sublimate must be