BURNS AND SCALDS. 197 of caffeine in doses of one grain or more in solution, with an equal quantity of salicylate of soda, repeated in three or four hours, is of use; brandy will also be called for. If, after the patient recovers from the shock, symptoms of internal congestion or inflammation set in, the treatment must be conducted partly on the principles indicated for acute inflammation and partly on the medical lines appropriate to the organ affected. During the stages of sloughing and convalescence, it is necessary to support the patient's strength, and for this purpose, the administration of a nutritious diet with plenty of milk, and the use of stimulants and tonics, is of the greatest importance. Of the latter, Blaud's iron in capsules containing ten grains, three times a day, or tinct. ferri perchlor, ten to fifteen minims given three times a day, are the best. Quinine in three grain doses thrice daily is also of great value. {b) Local Treatment.—Of still greater importance is the local treat- ment, which may be considered in connection with the various degrees of burn. In the First Degree the erythema which occurs from radiant heat requires little or no treatment. The chief trouble complained of is the sensation of heat and burning in the part, and the use of some soothing application, such as cold cream or glycerine, which also acts by protecting the surface from contact with the air, will often relieve it: if not, lead or lead and opium lotion (see p. 9) will be elBcacious. In the Second Degree where there are blisters they should be punctured at the most dependent spot, and their contents let out. The epidermis however should not be clipped away, and the incision in the blister should only be sufficient to allow the fluid to escape. If made too large the epidermis is apt to peel off, exposing the papillary layer of the skin, causing a good deal of pain, and retarding the healing. Where the injury has not gone beyond the formation of blisters, it is hardly necessary to irritate the skin by the use of antiseptic lotions, more particularly because the denudation of the papillary layer does not entail any serious risk of sepsis; it is best simply to apply some antiseptic ointment over the blisters after they have been pricked and their contents let out. The most suitable application is the eucalyptus ointment of the Pharmacopoeia, but weak boracic ointment (half or quarter strength) also acts very well. The Third and Fourth Degrees.—Where there is partial or entire destruc- tion of the whole thickness of the skin or of the deeper tissues, as is the case in the remaining degrees of burn, great care must be taken to keep the parts rigidly aseptic, because, after recovery from the shock and for the first week or two afterwards, the patient's greatest risks are connected with sepsis. How best to secure asepsis is a question of consider- able difficulty, for it must be remembered that burnt parts absorb fluids with extraordinary rapidity, and this is especially the case with regard to carbolic acid. Hence, if this drug be freely used as a disinfectant in burns, the gravest symptoms of carbolic poisoning, possibly ending in the death