EPITHELIOMA. 227 weak and readily ulcerate. For example, in the case of a sore over the tibia, the scar may become fixed to the bone, and is then very liable to break down and ulcerate after comparatively slight injuries which would not affect it were it freely moveable. The same is also the case with scars over the ends of bones after amputation. Should they become adherent to the bone, the amount of discomfort and pain which they cause is extreme, and, as will be pointed out in dealing with amputations, it is one of the essentials of a good stump that the scar should not be adherent to the end of the bone. Treatment.—In cases of adherent cicatrix after amputation, the obvious remedy is to open up the flaps, release the adhesions, and, if necessary, remove a slice of the bone. In other cases, where the surgeon has to do with a scar adherent to such structures as bones, tendons or muscles, an attempt may be made, where the adhesion is slight, to divide it by a tenotomy knife introduced through the skin at the margin of the scar. Generally, however, it is best to dissect out the scar altogether, and then, by means of a plastic operation, to turn in a flap from the side so as to cover the raw surface thus made ; the surface from which the flap is taken may be skin-grafted (see p. 50) if its edges cannot be brought together. This is preferable to grafting directly over bone, to which the grafts might in their turn become adherent. In some of these cases it has been suggested that portions of the underlying bone should be removed, so as to shorten the limb and to relieve the tension on the wound left after excision of the scar, so that its edges can be brought together. Although this operation has been more than once practised, it can, however, only be called for in extreme cases; in the large majority the method just described will suffice. EPITHELIOMA. Another reason for getting rid of scars which form adhesions to the deeper parts, or those which are constantly in a state of irritation, is that, as the patient gets older, such scars are very apt to become the seat of malignant growths, more particularly epithelioma. Perhaps the most common seat of epitheliomata in the extremities is an old adherent scar, round the orifice of a sinus, etc., and this is a point which should be carefully borne in mind in treating these conditions. Treatment.—The treatment of epithelioma affecting scars is the same as the treatment of the disease elsewhere, namely free excision of the diseased area and examination, and, if necessary, excision of the nearest lymphatic glands. The exact nature of the operation will depend upon the situation and extent of the disease, but there should be no hesitation in removing it very freely, even by amputation if necessary. Recurrence is less frequent after operation for epithelioma in the extremities than else- where, and this is partly due to the fact that there is plenty of room for wide removal of the disease.