84 AN.«:STHETICS. practical, and its tendency to mask the symptoms of over-narcosis has more than once led to fatal results. Something may be said in its favour, when used in such special operations as those involving the cerebral hemispheres, where it may help to keep the parts aneemic, but even then only a small dose should be employed (^-| gr.). There seems to be some reason for believing, that strychnine is of considerable value in obviating or diminishing what may be termed "operation shock,"^ and it is also claimed by some, that the tendency to sickness is lessened by its use. In the feeble, therefore, and in severe operations, grain may be injected, either immediately before or immediately after anaesthesia is induced, and the dose may be repeated once or twice during the course of the operation ; this does no harm, and may do a great deal of good. Before the inhalation is commenced, every care must be taken to re- move anything that may interfere in the slightest degree with the most absolute respiratory freedom; even in normal sleep the least pressure on the chest may cause an immense amount of discomfort. Plugs of tobacco, artificial teeth, obturators, etc., should be removed, lest they fall into the larynx or pharynx ; collars, stays, belts, waistbands, braces, bandages, etc., etc., must be completely relaxed. In some instances, auscultation of the chest and heart increases the trepidation of the patient, and, in by far the majority of cases, the infor- mation obtained is valueless or misleading; on account of nervousness the rate and rhythm of both cardiac and breath sounds are much interfered with, and the accurate detection of slight lesions becomes almost impossible. Although auscultation is not to be recommended as a routine practice, the anaesthetist is bound, nevertheless, to acquaint himself, through the medical attendant, or through the patient and his friends, with all points in the medical history of the case which may have any bearing upon the question of the anaesthetic, especially in connection with the respiratory and cir- culatory systems; in cases of doubt, or if the slightest desire for it be manifested by the patient or his friends, a careful examination should, of course, be undertaken. It will probably help to calm the patient if the pulse be felt, although but little real information is gained beyond detecting any marked thickening or atheroma of the arterial walls. The position of the patient on commencing the inhalation, must vary slightly under different circumstances. Fussy attempts to " arrange" the patient are to be deprecated, and, generally speaking, the best rule to adopt is, to allow the patient to assume the recumbent posture most con- venient and comfortable to himself In most instances this will be supine, when, especially if there be any tendency to emphysema, the head and shoulders should be well supported with pillows. With the patient sitting up (nitrous oxide or ether), care must be taken that the head is placed in 1 Prof. Wood of Philadelphia, Transactions of the International Medical Congress, Berlin, 1890, vol. i., p. 133.