ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 9 A piece of thin muslin dipped in the lotion is placed over the skin and kept constantly moist, the part being left freely exposed to the air, so that evaporation may go on rapidly. The patient himself is generally able to look after this. Another lotion which is much used is lead lotion, or, where there is much pain, lead and opium lotion. The lead lotion is the liquor plumbi subacetatis dilutus of the Pharmacopoeia, and in order to make the lead and opium lotion, lo to 20 minims of laudanum is added to each ounce of the liquor plumbi. This is used in the same way as the above. If greater lowering of temperature be required, dry cold should be used, because the wet form is more apt to lead to gangrene than the dry. Dry cold is best applied by means of an Ice-Bag, crushed ice being placed in an indiarubber bag, and the latter so suspended over the part that the weight of the ice does not cause pressure upon it. The ice, of course, will require renewal as it melts, and the condition of the ice-bag should be frequently inspected. A very convenient way is to tie the ice-bag to the Fig. 2.—Method of applying an Ice-bag. upper part of one of the cradles which are used for protecting limbs in the case of fracture, etc., and so arranging the height of the ice-bag that it just touches the part where cold is required. Between the ice-bag and the skin a piece of lint should be placed, in order to absorb the moisture which is apt to accumulate there (see Fig. 2). In employing cold in acute inflammation, the condition of the part should be carefully watched from time to time, and if the skin become dusky from excess of venous blood, or if the circulation in it be markedly slowed, as will be shown by pressing the part and watching the rapidity with which the vessels fill again, the use of cold should at once be abandoned and the part wrapped up in cotton wool. A still more effectual way of employing cold is by means of the appar- atus known as Leiter's Tubes. These consist of fine lead tubing which can be twisted into a flat spiral coil and then so moulded as to surround the part without causing any undue pressure. Through these tubes a con- stant stream of water is passed, and, according to the temperature of the water, any degree of cold can be obtained. Between the Leiter's tubes