TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. l8l a small amount of the poisonous substances remains to be absorbed. Nevertheless, if the wound be at all large, the temperature rises at first, and a varying degree of traumatic fever occurs, while the edges of the wound become swollen, red and painful, and in the course of two or three days its surface becomes covered with a layer of granulation tissue. Treatment.—As soon as it is thought, from the rise of temperature and other symptoms, that sepsis has occurred, the dressings should be removed, and if then it be evident that the antiseptic treatment has not been altogether successful, the surface of the wound should be thoroughly cleansed and all the adhering portions of blood-clot removed. In most cases where the symptoms are not severe, the cyanide dressings may be continued, but they will need to be changed daily, and the surface of the wound will require to be washed with a 1-2000 sublimate solution. If there be much inflammation, it will be well to put a layer of mackintosh outside the wet cyanide dressings, so as to keep them moist, and then the dressing should be changed night and morning. Carbolic acid is not a good lotion to apply to the surface of these wounds, especially in the early period, because it seriously injures the vitality of the granulation cells, and thus interferes with their power of destroying the virulent organisms on the surface. Moreover, granulating wounds treated with carbolic acid absorb much more readily than when treated in other ways- Where the discharges are very foul, iodoform is often useful, for, although as an antiseptic the drug is of very little value and is not at all to be recommended for a freshly made wound where the surgeon presumably takes all precautions necessary to prevent the entrance of micro-organisms, it does become more or less of an antiseptic when applied to a putrefying sore. It then seems to break up the toxic products of the bacteria, and in doing so becomes decomposed itself and free iodine is liberated. Hence, in septic wounds, the drug by destroying the products of the bacteria takes away their weapons so to speak, while at the same time the iodine liberated inhibits the growth of the bacteria, or may even actually destroy them. Whenever iodoform is used, it should be disinfected beforehand by immersing it in a 1-20 carbolic acid solution for several days, straining it through muslin, and then drying it under cover. When in these septic wounds granulation is complete and the febrile condition has passed off, it is well to substitute mild antiseptic dressings, such as antiseptic ointments, or the boracic lint and protective dressing used in ulcers (see p. 47). Of ointments, the ung. boracis is undoubtedly the best; at first it should be of the full pharmacopoeial strength; but after four or five days, when healing is commencing, half or even quarter strength should be substituted, because the full-strength ointment seems to be too irritating for the young epithelial cells, and prevents the cicatrization of the wound. If the wound be large, skin-grafting may be employed after about a fortnight, and in that case the process is exactly the same as in grafting an ulcer (see p. 50).