TUMOURS OF THE CONNECTIVE TISSUE TYPE. 261 appearance of the tumour depends to a great extent on the amount of inter-celkilar substance present. These growths are usually very vascular and are especially rich in capillaries and veins. They tend to undergo various degenerations; they compress and destroy neighbouring parts, surround vessels and nerves, and may lead to ulceration of the skin, either after involving it or, more commonly, by causing sloughing from pressure and then fungating through the opening thus formed. They give rise to secondary tumours around the primary one, or spread through the medium of the circulation. The secondary internal tumours occur most commonly in the lungs and liver. In certain cases, generally in the softer and more embryonic varieties, the lymphatic glands become affected, though this is not nearly so common as in the carcinomata. Of the different varieties of the sarcomata we may mention the round-celled sarcoma, which is usually soft and white like the milt of fish, and which is generally very malignant; the spindle-celled sarcoma, which is generally much firmer, of a greyish or yellowish-white appearance and not so malignant in its nature as the round-celled variety ; it occurs most frequently in connection with the fascite: the myeloid sarcoma, where, in addition to polymorphous or spindle cells, there are large myeloid or giant cells. This form is soft, of a chocolate colour, and generally con- tains large numbers of cysts, due to degeneration occurring in the first instance in connection with these myeloid cells. It occurs in connection with bones, more especially in the interior of their articular ends, and in the lower jaw, and is usually an endosteal growth. It is the least malignant of all the sarcomata and seldom gives rise to secondary tumours; in some cases it may be removed without amputation and without recur- rence. Some authors separate these myeloid tumours from the sarcomata and place them in a group by themselves. The melanotic sarcomata contain polymorphous or spindle-shaped cells in which pigmentary degeneration occurs very early. They originate in parts where there is normally pigment, for example in connection with the skin or the choroid coat of the eyeball. They are the most malignant of all the sarcomata and affect the glands early, and recur with great rapidity. Alveolar sarcoma is comparatively rare. In it the cells are arranged in groups separated by connective tissue or spindle cells, giving rise to an alveolar arrangement. It usually occurs in connection with the skin. Lastly, there is osteo-sarcoma which takes origin from the periosteum. This form is extremely malignant; in it a certain amount of ossification takes place so that when the affected bone is macerated, a considerable number of spicules of osseous tissue are found projecting from its surface. The secondary deposits to which this form gives rise are very apt to undergo similar ossification. A somewhat analagous condition is seen ir the variety known as the chondro-sarcoma, which is a form of sarcoma met