144 WOUNDS. only momentary, and recovery is indicated by sighing and gasping respira- tions, reappearance of the pulse, and gradual return of consciousness. In the treatment of syncope it must be borne in mind that the symptoms are essentially due to absence of blood from the brain, and steps should be taken to remedy this. Before syncope is completely estab- lished it is often sufficient to depress the patient's head well between his knees, so that it is at a considerably lower level than the heart, and under these circumstances the face will often flush and the feeling of faintness will pass off. Above all things, when syncope is established, the patient's head must be lowered; there is nothing more dangerous than to leave the patient sitting up, or with his head reclining upon a pillow; the heart may not act again in time to supply blood to the vital centres while recovery can take place. It is well also to elevate the legs so that any blood present in the lower extremities may run back into the larger vessels. The chest also must be free, and there must be nothing tight around the neck. Sudden shocks to the external surface will set up the heart's action again, the most favourite plan being to bare the chest and dash cold water over it, or slap it with wet towels. Cold water dashed over the head has similarly a good effect. The Faradic current may also be employed to the region of the phrenics so as to produce contraction of the diaphragm; this is best done by means of two small moistened electrodes about the size of a shilling, connected with an induction coil, which are pushed forwards beneath the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoids just above the clavicle on each side, and the current then made and broken from 15 to 30 times per minute. Each closure of the current causes an inspiration, followed by an expiratory effort. Direct stimulation to the region of the heart seems to do no good and may be actually harmful. The strength of the current should be from 5 to 15 milliamp^res. There must be also plenty of fresh air; no crowd should be allowed to gather around the patient, and when he is able to swallow, a little brandy and water, or other stimulant, will aid the recovery. When syncope occurs during the course of an operation, the patient should be pulled up to the end of the table and his head allowed to hang over it, or the foot of the table may be tilted up. Artificial respiration must be employed, and slap- ping the chest with wet towels, and the application of the Faradic current to the region of the phrenic nerves, as just described. AFTER-TREATMENT OF OPERATIONS. When no collapse is present, the patient should be put to bed as quickly and gently as possible, and wrapped up in warm blankets. In most cases he should lie on his back, and where possible with only a thin bolster under the head. The room should be rapidly cleared and darkened, and the patient left perfectly quiet. If this be done the narcosis may pass