WOUNDS. 154 employed. This form of needle is flattened from side to side, so that it makes its skin puncture at right angles to the edge of the wound, and as the stitch is pulled tight, its tendency is to close the small hole, whereas with the ordinary curved needle, which makes an incison parallel to the edge of the wound, the effect of tightening the suture is to enlarge the incision and consequently to leave a larger scar. How to avoid Stitch Marks.—In many cases of small wounds, such as those upon the face, it is possible, by taking a little trouble, to avoid stitch marks entirely. The best plan is to approximate the deeper part of the dermis by buried sutures, and when this is done the superficial part can be brought accurately together by strips of gauze fixed in position by flexile collodion. The best way of introducing a buried suture is to take a curved Hagedorn needle threaded with the finest catgut, and pass it through the fat and deeper part of the dermis on one side of the wound, and then through the fat and deeper part of the dermis on the other. Fig. 45.—A Buried Suture. The figure shows how, by making the free end of the suture emerge on each side through the deeper part of the dermis and the adjacent subcutaneous tissues, the knot can be easily pushed out of the way among the fat when it is tied. If it were done in the reverse way the knot would lie between the lips of the incision, and would interfere with perfect coaptation. The ends of the suture are cut off quite short and pushed down out of the way by means of a probe. the needle being made to enter the fat and emerge through the dermis on the one side, and vice versa on the other. Several stitches are passed, and they are then tied and the ends cut short, the knot being pushed down into the fatty tissues beneath the dermis (see Fig. 45). These sutures hold the deeper parts of the skin firmly together. A strip of gauze is then fixed upon one side of the wound with collodion, and when it is dry the skin on the other side is pressed inwards towards the line of incision, and the free end of the gauze strip is fastened down upon it with collodion. As far as the gauze and collodion are concerned, the pro- cedure closely resembles the old-fashioned method of applying strapping to draw the edges of wounds together, and is similar to the plan adopted in hare-lip operations. By its means the epithelial edges are approximated, and stitch marks are absolutely avoided, so that only a very delicate linear scar is left, which in a short time becomes quite unnoticeable. Where there is no special reason for avoiding stitch marks, the best plan is to close the wound by a continuous button-hole stitch of fine silk (see p. 158). ip') Where there is great tension.—In many cases, after operation for the removal of tumours, etc., as, for example, after excision of the breast, there is a considerable deficiency of skin, and the result is that the edges of the wound will not come together without considerable traction.