CHAPTER VI. WOUNDS. MANAGEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND THE TREATMENT OF THEIR CHIEF IMMEDIATE RISKS : HAEMORRHAGE, SHOCK, AND SYNCOPE. The subject of wounds, their varieties, complications and treatment, is one of the very highest importance. Wounds may be the result of accident or may be made intentionally by the surgeon, and between the two classes there are important differences. They may be divided into incised, contused, lacerated, gunshot, or poisoned wounds, and those caused by heat and cold. Certain points common to all wounds, such as the questions of pain, of shock, and of bleeding, and the risks of inflammation, also require to be studied. Lastly, various septic diseases which are apt to occur in connection with wounds, such as traumatic fever, traumatic delirium, septicaemia, hectic fever, pytemia, tetanus, and erysipelas have to be taken into account. Before, however, proceeding to deal with them, it seems advisable to say a few words about the general management of operations. Operations may be divided into two great classes, namely, those where the condition is urgent and the operation must be carried out without delay, and those where some time may be allowed to elapse after an operation has been decided upon. In the latter case various preliminary steps should be taken, some of which we shall briefly indicate. PREPARATION OF PATIENT FOR OPERATION. In the first place, certain points in the way of preparation of the patient should be attended to. Some of these are special to operations in certain regions, and will be mentioned in describing particular opera- tions; such are the cleansing of the mouth and teeth in operations on the tongue, etc., washing out the stomach in gastrostomy and gastro- enterostomy, emptying the lower bowel in excision of the rectum, and so on. But, apart from these special matters, there are certain points common to many operations which will be considered here. The mental attitude of the patient is a point of very considerable importance, especially as affecting the occurrence of shock during and after