8o GANGRENE. Treatment.—The prophylactic treatment consists of strict antiseptic precautions in cases of all wounds, isolation of the affected individual, and great care not to infect other persons with the instruments, or by the attendants. In the local treatment the chief reliance is placed on destruction of the pulpy material, either by the application of the actual cautery, or by the use of nitric acid (see p. 59) or perchloride of iron, the pure liquor ferri perchloridi being employed. Of these the actual cautery seems to be the most efficacious. The parts are very thoroughly destroyed with the cautery at white heat, wherever there is the slightest suspicion of the presence of the membranous material. After the surface has been des- troyed with the cautery, the wound should be packed with boracic lint dipped in 1-5 carbolic oil. If perchloride of iron be used the wound should be first thoroughly dried, and lint soaked in the perchloride packed into it and left for four-and-twenty hours, after which it may be dressed with the boracic lint and carbolic oil. The perchloride of iron has not a very powerful effect in this disease and should only be employed where it is slight in extent and is not spreading rapidly. If the part affected be an extremity, amputation should be performed, provided it be possible to get well above the disease. Naturally, great care must be taken not to infect the stump at the same time. In any case, the general condition of the patient should be attended to, stimulants, strychnine, etc., being freely administered, and every effort made to maintain the patient's strength. (3) Cancrum Oris.—The third form of specific gangrene to which we shall refer is cancrum oris, a disease affecting children, and beginning in the mouth or the vulva (when it is termed "noma."). This disease generally attacks weakly children of from two to five years of age, who are convalescing from some other affection, such as measles or scar- latina. In the mouth, it usually begins in the gums ; the patient complains of pain, the breath becomes foetid, and there is increased flow of saliva. Ulceration then occurs about the gums, a black spot appears inside the cheek, and by and by this extends through the cheek, a slough forms, and large portions of the jaw and cheek may be destroyed. The patient's general condition is very serious, the temperature is high, and death usually occurs in from three to four days. The disease is due to long delicate bacilli which are found in large numbers in the slough, and more especially in the living tissues just beyond it. The treatment aims at destroying all the affected parts, and the portions of the living tissues around in which the bacilli are present. All the parts which are gangrenous must be clipped away; not only the soft parts, but the portion of the jaw affected must be removed, and this should be. done till a surface which bleeds everywhere is exposed. Having in this way got rid of all the gangrenous tissues, pressure is applied and the bleeding arrested, and then strong nitric acid is painted over or rubbed into