70 GANGRENE. oil, and other greasy dressings should be entirely avoided, and only those employed which permit drying of the part. The cyanide gauze next the skin, with some sterilized or salicylic wool outside, probably forms the best dressing. The patient should remain in a recumbent position, with the foot kept warm and slightly elevated. The strength must be supported by generous diet and fresh air, obtained if possible by wheeling the patient out in a suitable i-eclining chair every day. The heart's action must be assisted as far as possible, and for this purpose the use of Tinct. Nucis Vomicae in 5-minim doses, combined with 5 minims of the Tinct. Digitalis, three times a day, is of great use. Steps should also be taken to relieve the pain, more especially by the free administration of opium. Opium has a very beneficial effect in many cases of senile gangrene, even where there is no diabetes. It probably acts mainly by relieving the pain, and thus enabling the patient to get sound rest and sleep ; but some authorities seem to consider that opium has a specific action in gangrene. It should be given four times a day, beginning with 10 to 12 minims of laudanum, and gradually increasing the dose. At the same time the bowels must be kept freely open, preferably by the use of mineral waters, such as a wine- glassful of Hunyadi Janos, or half a tumblerful of Friedrichshall in warm water every morning on rising, or with seidlitz powders and eneniata. Stimulants will probably be required, certainly at a later period, and whisky and brandy, in amounts from 3 to 6 ounces daily, are the best. At an early period the question of amputation must be carefully con- sidered. The old rule was that amputation should never be performed in senile gangrene, but that the part should be allowed to drop off, the utmost surgical interference allowed being to snip through dead tendons or bones, and on no account to interfere with the living tissues. The reason for this was that before the antiseptic era acute inflammation almost always followed amputation, and when inflammation occurs in these weak tissues it is very likely indeed to lead to sloughing of the flaps and more rapid progress of the gangrene, which then becomes of the moist variety. At the present time however we can avoid this inflammatory disturbance, and therefore the rules as regards amputation in senile gangrene are completely altered. It is now not so much a question of recurrence of gangrene in the stump, as whether the patient has sufficient recuperative power to recover from the operation. In cases where the answer to this question is doubtful, it must be remembered that the patient if left alone will almost certainly die from the senile gangrene, and therefore that amputation offers practically the only chance. By operating early, and by amputating well above the dead part, the patient's strength is preserved, he is not worn out by pain and loss of sleep, and he is in a much better condition to survive the operation than if it were delayed. The only difficulty is that it is not always possible to gauge how far the process will extend ; as a rule this can be determined by ascertaining the point at which pulsation in the main vessels ceases. In some rare cases where the artery can be felt