202 WOUNDS. Treatment.—Prophylactic.—The treatment of the effects of cold is partly prophylactic and partly curative. As a measure of prophylaxis, persons who must necessarily be exposed to severe cold should take large quantities of fatty food. The clothing should be thick and woollen, it should not be tight-fitting, and the feet especially should be kept warm; the body, particularly the exposed parts, should be oiled in order to prevent evaporation, and when the patient is exposed to intense cold he should keep actively moving, and must not yield to the desire to rest or sleep, which is often very great. {b) Curative.—i. Of the First Stage.—Where the cold has, so to speak, got hold of the patient, he should not be brought at once into a warm room, as otherwise the reaction is likely to be so great that thrombosis of the vessels occurs. The affected part should at first be rubbed with snow or cold water, while, after a little time, dry friction may be substituted, and then the heat very gradually increased. Dry friction should first of all be practised by the hand, for wliich slightly warmed cloths may afterwards be substituted, and then the patient may be exposed to the air of a warm room at a distance from the fire. When this stage has been passed and the erythematous condition has supervened, the best applications are stimulant lotions, such as camphorated alcohol, rubbed into the part. The question of food is also important. At first both food and drink should be quite cold, and only gradually should warm nourishment be permitted. Treatment of Chilblains.—Where chilblain is present and the skin is still unbroken, various applications, in which flexile collodion is the vehicle, are of great use. The following are the most valuable. Where there is great itching, the irritation can be much relieved by the application of flexile collodion containing 2 per cent, of cocaine. In painting this on a chilblain affecting, say, the toe, great care must be taken not to surround the base of the toe completely with it, as otherwise the contraction which ensues as it dries will exercise a certain amount of constriction which will interfere with the return circulation. The collodion should, therefore, only be painted on the main portion of the chilblain, and on one side (in the case of the great toe, the outer side) no collodion should be appHed. Where the chilblains are very tender, the use of turpentine is of advantage, and the following prescription is very satisfactory : Collodion, - - - - 2 oz. Venice Turpentine, - - - 6 drachms. Castor oil, - - - - 3 drachms. In this preparation the turpentine does not allow the collodion to dry completely, and the stocking is consequently apt to stick to the skin; it is well, therefore, to place a piece of boracic lint around the toe outside the collodion as soon as it has partly dried, and this can afterwards be removed with warm water. This application should be renewed at least