TUMOURS OF THE CELLULAR TYPE. 254 over the surface of the papillae, and becomes hard and stuck together by some glutinous material. On breaking off the horn, a broad papillomatous base is left, and this must be dissected away. If this be not done, the horn will grow afresh. Corns.—A corn is essentially due to intermittent pressure, and the complete removal of all pressure will as a rule lead first to the peeling off of the hard core of the corn, and subsequently to the disappearance of the whole trouble. This can be aided by salicylic collodion applied after paring the corn in the manner described in speaking of warts. A corn however needs more frequent paring than does a wart. If it be at all rebellious to the ordinary salicylic collodion, a more certain and rapid effect is produced by taking a thick corn or bunion plaster and, after shaving down the epithelium as much as possible, applying the plaster to it so that the central perforation is over the base of the corn. This is then filled up with pure salicylic acid which is kept in place by a small piece of ordinary plaster without any central hole put on over the corn plaster. The action of the pure acid is thus brought to bear directly upon the base of the corn and is very effectual. Adenomata.—These tumours occur in connection with glands, and their structure is similar to that of the gland in which they develop. 'Whether they originate in a hyperplasia of the epithelium or of the connective tissue is a point which is by no means settled, but as a rule so much fibrous tissue is present that the term fibro-adenoma is more appropriate, or, if the tissue be very embryonic, myxo-adenoma. The adenomata are simple tumours which are usually encapsuled, and when embedded in the substance of the organ they can generally be shelled out of the capsule without any trouble and without any tendency to recurrence. Treatment.—The treatment is to remove them and it is always best to take away the capsule. In certain positions adenomata become polypoid, for example, in the rectum, oesophagus, etc., where by their weight they are dragged downwards, pushing the mucous membrane before them. In these cases the removal of the polypoid growth, with ligature of the pedicle so as to arrest the bleeding, is the proper treatment. MALIGNANT FORMS.—The second great group of epithelial growths is formed by the carcinomata, in which the epithelium grows in an irregular manner; the cells are larger than the ordinary epithelial ones from which they originate, and the growths infiltrate the tissues and are not encapsuled. They are malignant, and the essential elements in the tumour are the epithelial cells. Carcinomata.—The carcinomata differ in malignancy and rapidity of growth according to their situation, to the character of the epithelium in connection with which they grow and to other circumstances with which we are not well acquainted. The carcinomata which spring from the surface epithelium are generally spoken of as epitheliomata and this class includes squamous epithelioma, and rodent ulcer, growing from the skin, and the