WOUNDS. 126 the operation. When he has once decided to undergo an operation, the patient should be encouraged to look forward to a successful result; nothing is worse for him than to feel that he is going to succumb; shock certainly seems to intervene more quickly and more powerfully under such circumstances. Hence, although the patient and his friends should be made aware of the real danger and results of the proposed operation, as soon as its performance has been decided on the brightest side of the picture should be put in the foreground and any drawbacks made light of. In regard to feeding before an operation, there is no object in inter- fering with the patient's usual diet on the preceding day, but it is well that the evening meal should be light and easily digestible. On account of the ansesthetic, food should not be given by the mouth later than three hours before the operation, and if this is to be performed in the early morning it is not worth while waking up the patient for a meal. If he be awake, it is as well to give a cup of strong hot beef-tea or Valentine's meat juice about six o'clock in the morning when the operation is to be performed about nine. When the operation is to be a severe one, it is also advisable to give a nutrient enema half an hour before operation; for methods of preparation, etc., see p. 83. The bowels should in all cases be well cleared out before the operation, and the most satisfactory aperient is castor oil; about half an ounce should be administered over night, followed by a plain water or soap and water enema in the morning. The latter is made by rubbing up Castile soap in warm water till a pretty thick lather is formed, and about a pint is injected. Where the patient cannot take castor oil, or where it causes much griping, compound liquorice powder does very well, and a teaspoonful at night, followed by an enema in the morning, will generally suffice. The chief reason for clearing out the bowels, even though they may have been acting regularly beforehand, is that the patient is generally constipated after an operation and his digestion is more or less disordered; and, further, it is important to get rid of material which, by decomposing, may cause trouble, the septic products being absorbed and diminishing the patient's vitality. The evacuation of the bowels is also of importance in certain operations—for example, in piles—where steps are taken after the operation to delay their action for some time. The most favourable time for an operation is the early morning, and that for two reasons. In the first place the patient, especially if he has passed a good night, has not so long to worry and excite himself about the operation as when a later hour is chosen; and, in the second place, he does not miss his food. It is very important, particularly in the case of nervous patients, to secure a good night's rest before the operation, and in most cases there is no objection to the administration of a narcotic, preferably a quarter of a grain of morphine, subcutaneously at bedtime. If there be any reason against the use of morphine, such as renal disease, the fear of headache, sickness, etc., the administration of