CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 15 regards the question of suppuration may in most cases be given, although sometimes, where an abscess has formed, wrinkling of the skin in its vicinity may be present, owing to the subsidence of the cedema. CPIRONIC INFLAMMATION. NATURE.—Chronic inflammation may either begin as an acute process, in which the symptoms do not entirely disappear but gradually become much less acute and pass slowly into the chronic form, or, as perhaps more often happens, it is not preceded by the acuter form, but is chronic from the first. The process of chronic inflammation is somewhat difficult to understand and explain, because it generally forms part of some other morbid process, and it is not easy to separate one from the other. CAUSES.—Like acute inflammation, the chronic form depends upon the continued action of some exciting cause, but the causes which produce chronic inflammation are not of the same violent nature as those which set up the acute inflammation with which we have already dealt. Among the causes of chronic inflammation may be mentioned the presence of a foreign body. For example, a bullet embedded in the tissues, pro- vided that it has not carried in with it any pyogenic material, will set up chronic hiflammation in the part, which may last for a considerable time after the lodgment of the foreign body. Any obstruction to the free exit of secretion from a gland, as for instance a stricture or a calculus in its duct, brings about retention of the secretion behind the obstruction, and this leads to a condition of chronic inflammation in the gland, which will continue until the obstruction is relieved, or until the gland undergoes atrophy. Chronic inflammation not infrequently results also from pressure, and ends in the formation of a quantity of new tissue, as is seen for example in callosities, which, forming in a part, subject it to much pres- sure. Then, again, various deposits from the blood are responsible for exciting a state of chronic inflammation; for example, in gout the deposi- tion of urates in the tissues keeps up a condition of chronic inflammation in the neighbourhood of the deposit. In some cases, chronic inflammation seems to be dependent on certain states of the blood, the precise nature of which we do not exactly understand ; as, for example, in rheumatism, where chronic inflammation of fibrous tissues very often occurs, and may continue for a long time. Perhaps the most common cause of chronic inflammation is the presence in the tissues of some morbid material, more especially the specific virus of one of the chronic infective diseases, notably tubercle and syphilis, and it is well to bear in mind that in these cases, especially in tubercle, the main part of the swelling in the area afiFected is due, not to the mass of tuberculous tissue, but to the chronic inflammation which its presence has set up. CHANGES IN THE TISSUES.—The result of chronic inflammation is that a large amount of new connective tissue is formed. The part becomes