WOUNDS. The question of the value of this remedy is still sub judice, and, as there are probably several forms of pathogenic streptococci, it is well not to place too much reliance on it in any given case. At the same time, it seems distinctly of value in certain cases, if used as a prophylactic. INCISED WOUNDS INFLICTED ACCIDENTALLY. Another occasion on which a wound may come under the notice of the surgeon is where it has not been made by him, but has been inflicted some hours before it comes under his care. Here, the problem is not so much to prevent the entrance of bacteria into the wound, as to destroy any that may have already entered. The degree of the contamination of such a wound depends on the part of the body injured, and on the weapon with which the wound has been inflicted. In wounds of the scalp there is certain to be very considerable infection from hairs or scurf carried into the wound at the time it is made; and as suppuration in scalp wounds is often very serious, both from the result of the burrowing of pus under the scalp, and also from the proximity of the large veins in the diploe of the skull and the meninges, it is very important that these wounds should be thoroughly disinfected. In cases also where earth or grease has been extensively ground into the wound, great pains must be taken in the disinfection, more especially where bones are injured, as in compound fractures, wounds of joints, etc. These will be referred to in their proper place. Wounds of the face, or of parts not covered by clothes or hair, are not so likely to be seriously infected if the wounds be incised; of course, if they be contused or lacerated, the blunt instrument which inflicted them may have carried in a quantity of dirt, and here, in addition, the edges of the wound are usually bruised and of imperfect vitality. Treatment.—Where the contamination is but trifling, it may suffice to wash out and sponge the wound well with a 1-20 carbolic acid solution, but in the case of scalp wounds or those in which earth or dirt is obviously present, the treatment must be much more thorough. As a matter of fact, no attempt should be made to obtain healing by first intention over the whole area of the wound, so that the increased tem- porary irritation of the tissues by the strong antiseptics used for thorough disinfection is not a matter of any consequence. In badly soiled cases, and more especially in compound fractures, it is best to give the patient an anaesthetic, and then to sponge the whole wound out thoroughly with undiluted carbolic acid, after scrubbing the wound with a nail-brush and strong mixture (see p. 161), picking out dirt or foreign bodies with forceps, and clipping off" portions into which dirt is obviously ground. In doing this the actual margins of the wound in the skin should be avoided, as it may be necessary to stitch them together subsequently; all the deeper