158 WOUNDS. say, the stitches employed to bring the edges of the wound accurately together, it was formerly the practice to use interrupted sutures, each suture being separately inserted, knotted and divided. Of late, we have employed a continuous suture, which has the advantage that the edges are more accurately approximated and that the suture is much more rapidly inserted, a point that is of great importance when, at the end of a long or severe operation, a large wound requires to be closed. Fig. 49.—Button-hole or Blanket Stitch. The figure shows the thread looped behind the needle as it emerges from the skin. The first loop of the suture—at the left- hand end of the figure—is knotted in the ordinary way ; the remaining loops are made as shown at the right-hand end. The best form of continuous suture is that resembling the blanket or button-hole stitch (see Fig. 49). In the first place an ordinary suture is ABC Fig. 50.—Methods of finishing off the Button-hole Suture. A. As the needle emerges through the skin for the last time, the thread is twisted around it three or four times. The needle is then pulled throug-h and the stitch pulled tight. A perfectly satisfactory knot can be thus made with a little practice. B. Shows a method very com- monly used. When the needle is passed through the skin for the last time it is not brought out inside the loop from the last stitch ; the free end shown on the left-hand side of the incision is taken in one hand, the loop shown on the right-hand side in the other, and the two are then tied together. This is a simple method, but causes a little puckering. C. Shows the method employed by Professor Rose to obviate this puckering. In passing the needle through the skin for the last time it is made to go in the opposite direction, i.e. in the diagram from left to right, whereas the rest.of the stitch is made from right to left. The free end shown on the left-hand side of the incision is then held in one hand while traction is made upon the needle with the other; the result is that the last loop is drawn tight and the wound is closed. The free end on the one side and the loop—or the two free ends if the needle be cut off—on the other are then tied together. This is a very simple and effective plan. inserted and tied, to prevent the suture slipping; then, instead of cutting the suture, the needle is passed through the two edges of the wound, and brought out inside the loop formed by the thread, and drawn tight, and