i8 INFLAMMATION. energetic action be required, an ordinary linseed poultice is made, and over the surface of it mustard is thickly dusted, and the poultice then put on. The most popular method of counter-irritation is the use of tincture of iodifte or of linimentum iodi, the part being painted with the iodine every day until the skin becomes so sore that the patient cannot go on with it. As a rule, however, the effects of iodine are not satisfactory, and in many cases of tuberculous glands, in which it is so commonly used, it is positively harmful, as it tends to bring about suppuration. The two most potent methods for producing smart counter-irritation are blisters and the actual cautery. Blisters may be produced either by the use of the ordinary emplastrum lyttse of the Pharmacopoeia, or by means of the liquor epispasticus. Before applying them the part should be thoroughly cleaned, and if there are hairs they should be shaved off. In the case of adults the plaster should be left on for about ten hours. The length of time which it will require to produce its effect varies, however, with the thickness of the skin. In parts where the skin is thin, or in the case of children, a considerably shorter time—about five or six hours—will generally be sufficient; on the other hand, where the skin is thick, as on the palm of the hand or the sole of the foot, the blister may even require twenty-four hours in order to rise. After the plaster is removed, the part is generally the seat of a good-sized blister. Sometimes, however, the skin is merely reddened, or at most one or two small vesicles only are present; the subsequent application of a fomentation or a poultice will ensure the proper rising of the blister. If, however, it does not rise properly in the course of a few hours, painting the skin with the liquor epispasticus and allowing it to dry will usually produce a satisfactory result. Some prefer the liquor epispasticus alone, painting it over the part and allowing it to dry two or three times in succession. It must be freshly prepared, as otherwise it is very uncer- tain in its action. The effect of the fluid may often be increased by rubbing a drop or two of croton oil over the surface before application. Precautions.—'^&^\^&?, taking care not to leave the plaster on too long for fear of causing sloughing of the skin, we must bear in mind the danger that the patient runs of absorbing the drug, in which case there is con- siderable risk of nephritis. Blisters should not, therefore, be applied over large areas where the skin is delicate, and should not be used at all where there is any renal disease. As to the best position for applying the blister, it is well, where the inflammation is still active and is affecting the skin or the subcutaneous tissues, not to apply it immediately over the seat of disease, as otherwise it would probably increase the congestion of the part, and thus augment the inflammation. It is better in these cases to apply it at a little distance away. Where the inflammation is subsiding, however, there is not the same objection to applying it directly over the affected area; on the contrary, the increased flow of blood and lymph which is