WOUNDS. 142 as a treatment for profound shock, although it is worth a trial in severe cases, has not in our hands proved so satisfactory as the writings of some surgeons might have led us to expect. Where the case is one of pure shock the further dilution of the blood can hardly be expected to aid the recovery of the nerve centres. A better method is to inject the saline solution into the rectum, and the advantage of this plan is that dilution of the blood does not occur so rapidly. Where a nutrient enema has been administered, half an hour or an hour must, however, be allowed to elapse before the saline solution is injected. In pure shock stimulants are of much importance, but where there is much haemorrhage the saline solution is of more immediate value, and therefore an enema of one to two pints should be given at once, and re- peated in an hour if necessary. Influence of pain on shock.—A very difficult but at the same time a very important question is how far pain, when severe, keeps up the shock, and to what extent anodynes may be administered with the view of relieving it, There can hardly be any doubt that prolonged pain will cause exhaustion of the nervous system, and thus prolong or even set up shock, and it is therefore of importance to diminish it if possible. An injection of morphine before the patient comes round from the anaesthetic may diminish shock to some extent, but when once shock is established 7norphine alone is apt to cause a great deal of depression. The addition of atropine to some extent removes this objection, and therefore where there is much pain a subcutaneous injection of a quarter of a grain of morphine with x|-^th of a grain of atropine is advisable. Entry of air into veins. In connection with bleeding from wounds, we may here consider the question of the entrance of air into veins, which often leads to very serious results. This accident is especially apt to happen in operations about the root of the neck on account of the proximity of the heart, and the fact that the veins pass through rigid openings in the deep fascia of the neck. In these operations, if a vein be opened, and not immediately occluded, air is apt to be sucked in through the proximal end of the vessel, during inspiration, and this will give rise to very serious symptoms, more especially to embarrassment of the pulmonary circulation. The right side of the heart becomes full of blood, which is frothy from admixture with air, and this material is not readily driven on into the pulmonary artery, and in consequence, in some cases immediate death is the result. In other cases where less air enters, death does not occur so suddenly. The patient cries and gasps, he struggles for breath, and becomes blue from non-oxygenation of his blood. Where the amount of air sucked in is quite small the obstruction