167 TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. any aerial organisms which come in contact with the wound, the instruments, etc., are rendered inert by the fact that they fall into strong antiseptic solutions, for even although all the spores may not be destroyed, the non- spore-bearing organisms, such as those of erysipelas, would at once be killed. Irrigation of the Wound.—With a view of still further effecting this object it is well, as an additional precaution, to douche the wound from time to time with a 1-2000 sublimate solution. No doubt, theoretically, there must be a certain amount of irritation of the raw surfaces as a result of this procedure, but after all it does not make itself manifest in the healing, though it probably might do so were a 1-20 or a 1-40 carbolic acid solution employed for the purpose. In operations upon healthy joints, where a cavity is left which may contain blood and in which non-parasitic organisms might develop, it is very important to keep a stream of weak sublimate (not stronger than 1-4000 watery solution) running over the wound. In ordinary cases, instead of squeezing the 1-2000 solution out of the sponge into the basin, it suffices now and then, during the course of the operation, to squeeze the sponge over the wound, more particularly while the stitches are being inserted. After the wound has been stitched up, judicious pressure will expel all the lotion left in it. Fig. 51.—Deep .Suture for Approxijiation of Muscular Planes. This stitch Ls merely an applicat on of MacEwen's hernia stitch. The method of passing the thread is shown in the sketch. It may be introduced either by an ordinary surgical needle or, better, by the handled needle shown in the figure. A very simple plan of introducing the suture is to pass the needle unthreaded through the two opposing cut surfaces, pass the thread through the eye and withdraw the needle, carrying one end of the thread with it. This leaves the needle threaded to a suture which traverses both lips of the wound. The threaded needle is now thrust through the edge of the incision from which it last emerged, carried across the wound, made to pierce the opposite side, and the suture unthreaded. The needle is now withdrawn^ leaving the loop shown above in s/itt. This is not the method of inserting the stitch illustrated above. Drainag^e.—After the operation has been performed with the various precautions mentioned, the bleeding is arrested by one of the methods already described (see p. 128), and suitable stitches are inserted (see p. 153).