SPECIAL CASES. 107 much beyond the end of the first stage, just sufficient to abolish consciousness and stopping short of the stage of excitement; a fully charged ether inhaler is then substituted. In cases lasting more than half-an-hour too, I am in the habit of increasing the proportion of ether until, at last—after about an hour—ether alone is inhaled, the same mask being used throughout. Special Cases. Under certain conditions, some slight departure from the ordinary routine methods of administration seems to be desirable, but space will not permit of more than a passing reference to these cases, and this reference may most conveniently take the form of indicating my own practice in the matter. In intra-cranial operations I usually advise the preliminary in- jection of a small dose of morphia to ^ gr.). Anaesthesia is induced in the recumbent position, and the body is raised slowly and cautiously to an angle of about 45 degrees. Chloroform or the A.C.E. is used throughout, and only just enough antesthetic is given to keep the patient quiet. His disease and the effects of the morphia combined, render him very susceptible to an over-dose, and at the same time make him less susceptible to actual pain. Operations about the Nose and Mouth.—In such short opera- tions upon the nose as the removal of spurs on the septum, turbinated bodies, etc., the operator often considers it better for the patient to be sitting up, in which case, of course, nitrous oxide, with or without the addition of oxygen or ether, is the best anaesthetic, and as soon as possible the body should be pushed well forward, so that the head may hang over a basin placed between the knees, when the blood will run out of the nose and mouth. A somewhat similar position and procedure will, in the opinion of some surgeons, suffice for the removal of tonsils or adenoids, but when the choice is left to the anaesthetist, I must confess that I have a preference for the plan of lightly anaesthetising the patient in the recumbent position with A.C.E., and turning him on the right side as the operation proceeds. Use of Junker's Inhaler with Tube.—In long operations about the buccal cavity, e.g., removal of the tongue, I prefer to induce anaesthesia to a tolerably profound degree with A.C.E., and to maintain it with chloroform given out of a Junker's inhaler (Fig. 27) in which the facepiece has been removed and a tube substituted. The tube (Fig. 27 Z*) should have an internal diameter of at least four millimetres (they are generally much too narrow), and may be passed down the nose if necessary. Some adminis- trators prefer to very thoroughly saturate the patient with ether for five or six minutes before the operation is commenced, and then, if need be, continue with chloroform. My own experience is that ether causes undue congestion and bleeding, and the increased flow of mucus still further obscures the field of operation, and increases the tendency to asphyxia. The practice of different surgeons varies considerably in respect to the position adopted for the performance of these operations. Many surgeons