198 WOUNDS. of the patient, may result. Therefore, beyond a very superficial and tem- porary application of the acid (or the "strong mixture"), the drug should not be used for the wound, and the chief reliance must be placed on sublimate solutions, for example i-iooo. If this be freely applied and the skin at the same time soaped, disinfection is very rapidly effected. In burns, the heat itself has, for a time at any rate, disinfected the part, so that, should no subsequent soiling occur, as will be the case when the patient is seen quite soon after the accident, it is not necessary to employ the disinfectant with the thoroughness required in ordinary operations. This more especially holds good when the burnt part has not been covered with clothes; where however clothes have been over the part, the latter must have become soiled in removing them, and great care must then be employed in disinfection. As the patient is suffering from shock, and as the rubbing and washing necessary for disinfection are obviously very painful, additional shock will be avoided if a general anaesthetic (preferably ether) be administered. Thus, the procedure in bad cases will be to put the patient under an anaesthetic, to soap and wash the burnt area and the skin around, at first lightly with strong mixture, and then more thoroughly with a i-iooo sublimate solution, which is subsequently removed by douching, either with boiled water or with a weak sublimate solution (about 1-6000). The best dressing is one of cyanide gauze and salicylic wool, but the gauze must be thoroughly rinsed out in a very weak sublimate solution (about 1-6000 or 1-8000), and not in carbolic acid, on account of the facility with which the latter is absorbed. The dressing should be left undisturbed for two or three days if the temperature remain normal and the patient be comfortable; indeed, should there be no evidence of sepsis after two or three days, the dressings may be left on for a week or even longer. The advantage of a dressing of this kind is that while it keeps the part aseptic it also allows the discharge to dry on the surface, and a reference to the chapter on Gangrene (Chap. IV.) will show that one of the most important points in the treatment of that affection is to promote drying of the part. When the slough begins to separate (sometimes it does not do so, but becomes organised in the same way as blood clot), and the parts around are granulating well, one of the antiseptic ointments may be substituted for these cyanide dressings. The best is eucalyptus or the full strength boracic ointment. When the slough has separated the wound must be treated as a healing ulcer (see p. 48), and if of any size, the sooner it is skin-grafted the better (see p. 50). The use of picric acid in burns has lately been strongly advocated by a number of writers. It is claimed for it that it allays more effectually than the ordinary applications the intense pain so often present, while at the same time it possesses antiseptic properties. It is generally employed in the form of a saturated watery solution, which may either be painted upon the burnt area with a camel's-hair brush, or may be applied by saturating