141 SHOCK. {b) When established.—When shock is established vigorous measures must be adopted to combat it. In the first place, warinth is of the very highest importance; all wet cloths should be removed and the patient wrapped up in warm blankets, outside which hot bottles are placed; benefit will also be obtained by chafing the extremities and the abdomen. He should be put to bed as rapidly as possible and laid quite flat with only a thin bolster beneath the head, the foot of the bed being raised about 6 inches so as to favour the flow of blood to the brain, and he should be kept as still as possible so as not to exhaust the heart. Free stimulation is also important; perhaps the most rapid stimulant is ether injected subcutane- ously in doses of from 20 to 30 minims. The point of the needle used for injecting the ether should be buried in the muscle, for if a large quantity be injected subcutaneously sloughing of the skin may occur. The ether may be repeated in 15 or 20 minutes if necessary, and brandy also may be injected in the same quantity still more frequently. Tincture of musk, in doses of from 20 minims to a drachm, is much employed on the Continent, but it must be freshly prepared, as otherwise it is very apt to contain septic organisms. Stimulants should also be administered by the rectum in the form of a hot nutrient enema containing half an ounce of brandy (see p. 83), and it may be advisable to give this during the course of the operation if signs of severe shock appear. Of drugs, the only ones that are of any avail are strychnine and digitaline, a thirtieth of a grain of strychnine (or a sixtieth if it has been already twice admin- istered during the course of the operation as before directed), combined with a hundredth of a grain of digitaline. This may be repeated every hour if necessary for three or four doses. Some authorities lay much stress upon the value of transfusion, which is performed as described on p. 136. The effect upon the pulse and the breathing should be carefully watched, and the injection continued until the pulse is felt to become full, regular, and approaching its normal rate. For this purpose at least two or three pints, or even more, of the saline solution will be required. Care should be taken to keep up the tem- perature of the fluid. In cases where this transfusion is done chiefly for loss of blood, the results are doubtless often striking and most satisfactory, one injection being sufficient to tide the patient over his danger. Where, however, it is per- formed for pure shock the effect, although good, is often only temporary, and after the lapse of from a half to three hours the symptoms of shock begin to reassert themselves. Under these circumstances it may be neces- sary to repeat the injection, and cases have occurred where this had to be done a third or even a fourth time. The effect of this is, however, that the dilution of the blood may be so extreme as to produce imperfect aeration in the lungs, and sometimes severe dyspnoea may result. If this be the case the operation must be stopped, and reliance placed upon rectal injections and the administration of stimulants. The method of transfusion