WOUNDS. of fever ("traumatic fever") during the period of the formation of the granulations, due to the absorption of poisonous products from the decom- position in the wound. When granulation is complete, that is to say, about the third or fourth day, the temperature falls and the fever disappears, because the granulations do not permit absorption of these poisonous products. Apart from the danger of sepsis, a drawback to this mode of healing is that the scar is larger than after healing by first intention, and the deformity due to the contraction of the scar is sometimes very serious; it is evident, therefore, that healing by granulation is not such a desirable process as is union by first intention. Healing by union of granulations.—Lastly, there is another mode of healing which was at one time much encouraged, namely, healing by union of granulations. Here the edges of the wound are not brought together in the first instance, but are kept apart with dressings until both surfaces are granulating, and then, when granulation is complete, the surfaces are purified and brought together. The result is that over a con- siderable area these granulating surfaces adhere, and union occurs rapidly; but the risks attendant on healing by granulation, to which reference has just been made, apply to this method of healing also. It is not a mode that should be deliberately chosen when other methods are available, but it is well to bear in mind that granulating wounds may unite if their edges are brought together. Conditions inimical to healing by first intention.—In order to obtain healing by first intention (which should always be aimed at in incised wounds), it is essential, in the first place, to bring the edges of the wound together, and, in the second place, to avoid anything which may lead to inflammation. Among the minor conditions which tend to prevent union by first intention are, firstly, mechanical irritation of the part, more especially in the form of movement either of the part itself or of the muscles beneath it; secondly, the presence of too tight stitches; thirdly, the irritation of dressings, or of the chemical substances contained in them, or used as lotions. The most common cause, however, which leads to the failure of union by first intention or by blood clot, and which exposes the patient to the various serious risks which will afterwards be mentioned, is the entrance of micro-organisms and their growth either in the material on the surface of the wound or in the tissues themselves. The organisms which act in this way are essentially the pyogenic organisms, and they consist of various kinds of micrococci, known as the pyogenic cocci, the chief of them being the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, staphy- lococcus pyogenes albus, and streptococcus pyogenes. These organisms growing in a wound peptonize the materials on the surface, and so lead to the destruction of the original tissue, while they produce chemical substances of great potency, which act locally by causing first granulation, and subse- quently suppuration, and, generally, by setting up febrile disturbance.