236 SYPHILIS. of mercury, especially in the form of emplastrum hydrargyri, is often very beneficial in the tertiary period. In very obstinate cases, and particularly in tertiary bone lesions, much advantage may be gained by excising and scraping away the gummatous material in the same way as tuberculous tissue is treated, but in most instances the lesions rapidly disappear when iodide of potassium and mercury are administered.^ Sulphur Baths a?id Spas are much in vogue in the treatment of syphihs, and a visit to one or other of them, more particularly Aix-la-Chapelle, is very much in fashion. These waters however have no specific effect on syphilis, and the benefit derived from a visit to Aix is due essentially to the careful antisyphilitic treatment carried out there by the medical men, and to the fact that the patient gives himself up entirely to the treatment. No doubt the hot baths help the action of the antisyphilitic remedies to a certain extent, and some of the benefit is also due to the complete rest and absence of worry. It is a very good thing to send a nervous, over- worked business man with an obstinate syphilitic affection to Aix, Wildbad or some similar place, but, in the case of patients of moderate or limited means, it would be wrong to put them to the expense of going there, seeing that there is no specific advantage to be derived. The best time for a visit to Aix-la-Chapelle is May or June but it is open all the year round. HEREDITARY SYPHILIS. In inherited syphilis where the child is born alive and apparently healthy, the lesions are very much the same as the secondary and tertiary ones in the acquired form, but they are apt to be more mixed in character, and tertiary lesions may occur quite early. Treatment.—The treatment of hereditary syphilis is essentially the same as that of the acquired form, namely, the use of mercury in the early lesions, and of iodide of potassium, with or without mercury, in the later forms. Mercury is best administered to infants by means of inunction, as by this means irritation of the stomach and interference with the feeding of the child are entirely avoided. One of the most convenient ways is to spread some unguentum hydrargyri (a piece about the size of a small hazel nut) upon the binder, leaving it to the natural wriggling movements of the child to rub the mercury thoroughly into the skin. The binder is removed every day, the skin well washed, and fresh ointment applied. Should there be any irritation of the skin, a small quantity (about ten grains) of the 10 per cent, oleate of mercury can be rubbed into the legs and arms in place of the abdominal inunction. As soon as the symptoms begin to improve, the quantity used should be diminished, but mercurial treatment should be gone on with, either in the form of mild inunctions or by internal administration, at any rate for the first year after birth. If internal adminis- tration of mercury be preferred, ^th of a grain of hydrarg. cum cret., or x^o^h ^See Brit. Med. Journ., 1897, Vol. 2, p. 1571.