WOUNDS. 190 have gained access to the wound be not very virulent. As a first step, free access must be provided to the deeper parts, and for this purpose the skin wound must be enlarged, if necessary, so that the whole wound can be purified. The particular method employed for purification will depend to a considerable extent on the cause producing the wound. Where the skin is burst rather than actually torn or cut by an instrument, and the case is seen immediately after the receipt of the wound, the chances are that septic organisms have not penetrated deep. On the other hand, where the patient has fallen on stones or been run over by the wheel of a cart, the probability is that dirt containing septic organisms has been firml)' ground into the tissues. Hence, in the former case, it is sufficient to thoroughly wash out the wound with 1-20 carbolic lotion, or, perhaps better, with strong mixture (see p. 162), and, if the tissues be at all obviously soiled, to scrub the skin with a nail-brush and strong mixture. In the second class of case, where dirt is evidently ground into the tissues, and more especially where bone is injured, it is best first of all to clip away any very dirty tissue and any tags of skin and muscle, and then to wash out the wound with strong mixture, and finally to sponge it over with undiluted carbolic acid. Naturally, in these bad cases, the patient should be put under a general anaesthetic while the wound is being cleansed. No stitches whatever should be employed; the wound should be left freely open. The best dressings to use at first are the ordinary cyanide gauze and salicylic wool, and, should the wound prove aseptic, a piece of protective should be applied to its surface after a day or two, in order to prevent the irritation that this dressing would otherwise cause. After a time, if a considerable raw surface be left, and especially if it be granulating well, skin-grafting may be usefully employed (see p. 50). Should suppuration occur in these contused wounds, and should there be much local inflammation and a tendency to sloughing, then irrigation is the best treatment, and it may be carried out in the manner already described (see p. 30). As soon, however, as the wound becomes covered with granulations, irrigation should be discontinued, and either the gauze dressing employed, or, still better, one of the various antiseptic ointments. The best of these is the boracic ointment, the full strength being used until it is evident that healing has begun at the edge, and then half or quarter strength ointment substituted for it so as not to interfere with the growth of the young epithelium. LACERATED WOUNDS. Characters.—In lacerated wounds proper, namely, those caused by tearing, the bruising of the deeper tissues is not nearly so marked as in wounds inflicted by a direct blow with a blunt • instrument. In lacerated wounds, except where a limb is torn off, the wound is usually comparatively superficial. Its characteristics are that the parts are much torn, and that there are shreds of muscle and fascia hanging about the