42 ULCERATION. DANGERS OF ULCERS.—Before dealing with the treatment of ulcers, it may be pointed out that their rapid and permanent cure is a matter of great importance, because not only is a patient afflicted with an ulcer more or less incapacitated from work, but he is liable to various accidents which may permanently cripple him or even lead to his death. For example, where ulcers are situated over muscular parts, the muscles may become so matted together that the movements of the limb are much interfered with. This is more especially the case if the ulcer lies over tendons; the tendon and tendon-sheath may then become adherent to one another and to the surrounding parts. Perhaps the most common disabilities resulting from ulceration are due to the contraction which goes on during the efforts at healing. When an ulcer is situated over a joint, for example, the healing process may lead to so much contraction as to permanently fix the joint in a faulty (usually a flexed) position. Again, when an ulcer completely surrounds the leg, the contraction may be such as to constrict the vessels coming from the parts below, and so cause great and permanent oedema and often complete uselessness of the foot. A further risk of an ulcer is that the veins in its vicinity are apt to become inflamed, and an extensive phlebitis, simple or septic, may result. A patient with an open ulcer is subject to all the ordinary septic diseases, more especially erysipelas. And, lastly, it may be pointed out that, where an ulcer has existed a long time, epithelioma not infrequently develops from it, and the patient may die of this cancerous growth. TREATMENT.—In order to promote the healing process, various principles must be attended to. In the first place, it is essential for rapid healing that the level of the sore should be nearly, if not quite, the same as that of the surrounding parts; secondly, its margins should be moveable, in order to permit of contraction; and finally, the granula- tions on the surface should be healthy. There are, therefore, three practical points to attend to in the treatment of ulcers, (i) To remove the various causes which are keeping up the ulceration, the most im- portant of which have already been mentioned; (2) to improve the condition of the surface and margins of the ulcer; (3) to promote healing in every possible way, and to provide for the formation of as sound a scar as can be obtained. Remove cause.—The first essential, then, in the treatment of all ulcers, is to seek out the cause and remove it. These causes have been sufficiently dealt with in the foregoing paragraphs, and nothing further need be said about them here. Rest.—In all cases rest is absolutely necessary. As has already been said, movement tends to keep up the ulceration indefinitely, and conse- quently the patient must be absolutely prohibited from walking about, and, if necessary, the movements of the neighbouring joints must be prevented by the application of suitable splints. If splints are employed, they should be so arranged that the limb will be in the position most