135 MEANS OF CONTROLLING HAEMORRHAGE. causes a slough on the surface of the wound. In cases of operations upon the mouth or upon some part where sepsis subsequently occurs, this slough is a source of danger, as septic micro-organisms are likely to grow in it. Fibrin-ferment.—In connection with styptics may be mentioned the fibrin-ferment introduced by Prof. A. E. Wright, of Netley, for the pur- pose of checking excessive oozing from large raw surfaces. A piece of sterilized lint, sponge, or muslin is saturated with the ferment solution and laid upon the oozing surface, so as to come thoroughly into contact with all the bleeding points. Its action is to induce rapid coagulation of the blood as it issues from the vessels, and, provided that these be small, the result is very good. In our hands it has seemed of value in cases such as excision of superior maxilla, operations about the throat, etc.; it must, however, be freshly prepared, and is difificult to obtain. Drugs.—Lastly, we have the internal use of drugs which cause contraction of the vessels, of which the most notable is ergot. The fluid extract of ergot, given in doses of from 30 to 60 minims every hour, or even more frequently, for three or four doses, is a very valuable agent. Where a still more rapid effect is desired, a dose of one-fiftieth of a grain of ergotinine injected subcutaneously may be employed, and this may be re- peated two or three times. A solution of ergotme may also be employed in doses of one to two grains injected at right angles to the surface of the skin well into the muscular tissues. Among other substances used for the same purpose may be mentioned gallic acid, which is given in doses of ten grains every two or three hours. Another drug that has been employed for the purpose of increasing the coagulability of the blood is chloride of calcium, which may be given half an hour before operation in doses of 30 grains by the mouth, or better, since it is likely to induce vomiting, in doses of i drachm to the pint of water by the rectum. If it be employed, the cases for its use must be carefully selected. Its power of increasing the coagulability of the blood is undoubtedly very great, and therefore where there is much shock, and the circulation is much enfeebled, it may cause serious harm by bringing about thrombosis in the large veins, and its use is therefore not to be recom- mended where great shock is feared. Symptoms of serious loss of blood.—The next point for considera- tion is the treatment of cases where so much blood has been lost, either from continuous oozing from the vessels, or from the sudden escape from some larger trunk, that the patient's life is endangered. Bleeding may also occur under the dressing, or into the abdomen in cases of abdominal operations, after the patient has been removed to bed, and it is necessary that the surgeon should be able to recognize the symptoms of loss of blood. These are pallor, a rapid, soft, and feeble pulse, gasping or sighing respira- tion from imperfect oxygenation of the blood, and a tendency to twitching of the muscles; the patient soon loses consciousness. The most typical