TUMOURS OF THE CONNECTIVE TISSUE TYPE. 259 The tumour is composed of an aggregation of nodules of cartilage separated by fibrous tissue, and is encapsuled. Chondromata form rounded or lobulated tumours, and in the course of their growth they may surround various structures, such as tendons, nerves, or vessels, without actually destroying them. On section they are usually semi-transparent, greyish-blue, firm and elastic, or soft, and they show a lobulated structure. They occur especially in the phalanges and metatarsal bones, in the jaw, in the pelvis, or about the epiphyses of long bones. Sometimes also they occur in soft parts, such as the parotid, the .sub- maxillary glands, and the testicle; but it is a question whether chondromata occurring in the soft tissues are not really chondrifying sarcomata rather than true chondromata. At any rate in the case of the testicle, these tumours are generally malignant, and give rise to secondary deposits in the lungs, and the same chondrification takes place there. Chondromata may undergo calcification; fatty or mucous degeneration, leading to the formation of cysts may be met with in them. They grow slowly and cause trouble chiefly from their situation, and, with the exception of the variety met with in the soft parts already mentioned, they are benign tumours; in the case of the phalanges they are often multiple. Treatment.—When situated in the soft parts the best treatment is early extirpation; the capsule should not be left behind because of the possible malignant nature of the tumour. When the growth springs from a bone, it is sufficient to clip it freely away, or, if situated in the interior, to scrape it out without performing amputation. Care must be taken to do this as completely as possible, because recurrence from lobules of the cartilage being left behind is apt to take place. Should this happen, enucleation may be repeated, or if the bone be so much destroyed by the growth as to be useless, as may, for example, be the case in a phalanx, it is best to amputate. The OSteomata are tumours composed of bony tissue, and are met with in two chief forms. The rarer of these is the hard or ivory osteomata or exostosis, which is a flat sessile bony mass chiefly occurring on the vertex of the skull, on one of the bones of the face, or in the external auditory meatus; it is of ivory hardness, and is formed of dense compact bone, containing lacunae and canaliculi, but without proper Haversian canals. The other form is the spongy exostosis, which resembles cancellous bone in structure and arises generally in the neighbourhood of the epiphyseal lines. During the period of growth these spongy exostoses are covered with a layer of cartilage, and it is from this part of the tumour that growth takes place. As a rule this cartilage very quickly ossifies at the point where the tumour joins the bone from which it arise.s, and then growth ceases there whilst it goes on at the periphery of the tumour; hence these growths are usually pedunculated, and they vary in size and are nodular on the surface. Treatment'—-The treatment of the spongy exostoses is to clip them