DIABETIC GANGRENE. 77 Forbidden. Farinaceous foods of all kinds (bread only in very small quantity according to the discretion of the physician); sugar; potatoes, rice, tapioca, arrowroot, sago, groats; peas, beans; sweet fruits, as grapes, cherries, peaches, apricots, plums, and all kinds of dried fruits. BEVERAGES. Champagne and sweet wines and beers, must, fruit wines and fruit juices and syrups; sweet lemonade; liqueurs; ices and sorbets; cocoa and chocolate. Opium, or still better, codeine, which is said to diminish the irritability of the afferent nerves of the liver, should also be employed in large quantities. The codeine is given at first in doses of a quarter of a grain three times a day, and this may be gradually increased up to five grains. Stimulants may also be necessary if the pulse is becoming weak, and the patient exhausted; the best are dry wines, such as dry sherry, whisky in small quantities, etc., whilst sweet wines, champagne, and the like should be strictly avoided. (2) Local.— Qiiesiion of amputation. From an early period one must consider the question of amputation. Formerly the rule was not to ampu- tate in diabetic gangrene, partly on account of the great tendency to inflammation and suppuration in the stump, leading to extension of the gangrene, and partly owing to the risk of death from diabetic coma. Here, again, the rules have been completely altered by the employment of antiseptic measures, and from recent work it seems quite evident that the best treatment in most cases is early amputation. If left alone the great majority of patients die. By strict asepsis inflammation in the stump is avoided, septic troubles are prevented, and further gangrene does not occur if the amputation be performed sufficiently high up. The principal risk is from diabetic coma, and although this may be to some extent increased by the use of an anaesthetic, more especially of chloroform, the patient is not really more liable to an attack of diabetic coma after amputation than he is during the course of the gangrene; and, as he is very hkely to die of coma if not operated upon, this danger does not seem to present a barrier to operation. (b) Gangrene after acute Fevers.—Gangrene from this cause is sometimes a sequela of typhus or typhoid fevers, and attacks the extremities and the parts farthest from the heart, especially the toes, the nose, the ears, and sometimes the fingers. This form of gangrene is generally due to endarteritis and thrombosis ; in some cases, however, it follows embolism. It usually begins during the period of convalescence and is dry; it is unilateral in the case of the extremities. Treatment.—The treatment is to disinfect the part, apply an antiseptic dressing (see p. 64), and, in the case of the extremities, to wait for a line