MODES OF HEALING. These micro-organisms are normally present in most cases on the surface of the skin and mucous membranes, more particularly in parts where the skin is moist, as, for example, in the perineum, the axilla, between the toes, in the dirt under the nails, and so forth. They grow in the old epithelium on the surface of the skin around the hairs, and they also appear to penetrate into the orifices of the sebaceous and hair follicles. They vary in virulence, and the different kinds vary also in their mode of action. For example, the staphylococci seem especially to cause the circum- scribed abscesses, whereas the streptococci creep among the tissues, causing diffuse cellulitis, and gain access to the blood stream and set up pyaemia. The great object of wound treatment is, therefore, to prevent the entrance of these organisms into the wound, or, in cases where this is impossible— as, for example, in operations about the mouth or the rectum—to interfere with their growth, and thus to minimise their evil effects as far as possible. With the view of preventing the entrance of these organisms into the wound, various antiseptics must be employed. Various substances are now known which kill the organisms, some of them with rapidity, and, fortunately for us, the organisms which cause the mischief in wounds are, with few exceptions (notably the tetanus bacillus), non-spore-bearing, and hence are very readily killed even by dilute antiseptic solutions. A 5 per cent, carbolic acid solution will destroy these pyogenic cocci in a few seconds, provided always that it is enabled to gain proper access to them; similarly a 1-2000 sublimate solution will act very quickly. It is essential, how- ever, that these solutions be able to gain free access to the organisms. It must be remembered, with regard to these and some other antiseptics, that they coagulate albumen, and thus organisms protected by this layer of coagulum may escape their action. Heat of course is a most potent agent in the destruction of bacteria, both dry heat at a temperature of 130° C. (280° F.), and moist heat in the form of water at the boiling point. To boil instruments, or any other materials for a sufficient time, will thoroughly disinfect them. This point will be more fully referred to in dealing with the disinfection of instruments (see Chap. VIII.).