69 SENILE GANGRENE. the ground. The further history of the case is that after these symptoms have lasted a varying length of time something occurs which sets up a little inflammation about the foot. Possibly a blister forms as the result of tight boots, or a corn suppurates, or in paring a corn the tissues are injured : some such trivial cause usually leads to inflammation, with the result that the tissues being very weak, gangrene takes place, whereas in healthy tissues the inflammation would have passed off without any trouble. When gangrene has started it goes on very slowly, and it may be weeks or even months before more than the toes die. The appearances are those typical of dry gangrene (see p. 63). General condition of Patient.—The patient for some time remains in a good state of health, and his chief complaint is the pain which he suffers, and which may be intense. As the result of the severe pain, he becomes sleepless, and after a short time his pulse loses its fulness, and he gets very restless. If the disease be allowed to run its course, the patient will in most cases die of it, being worn out by the pain and want of sleep, or by some septic disease which has its origin at the line of demarcation. In some cases, however, recovery takes place, the line of demarcation forming very slowly, and the dead part being gradually cast off. Treatment.—-In describing the treatment of this form of gangrene, we must consider the prophylactic treatment as well as that called for when the gangrene has actually set in. First, as regards the prophylaxis. When an elderly patient comes complaining of the symptoms which have been mentioned as indicating imperfect circulation in the foot, and where on examination of the vessels it is found that they are thickened, or perhaps devoid of pulsation, great pains should be taken to explain the danger, and to point out how slight are the injuries which may precipitate the onset of the gangrene. He should be prohibited from wearing tight boots, and should be specially cautioned to avoid any injury to the foot, however trivial it may appear. Above all he should be warned not to place his feet in hot baths or before a very warm fire, for in the imperfect state of the circulation the heat is apt to bring on gangrene. If his feet are very cold, he may place them in a bath of from 80° to 85° F., tested by a thermometer, and he may then have them gently rubbed with a soft towel. He should wear warm stockings, and warm, light, fur-lined shoes or slippers. In bed he should wear thick bed-socks, and the bed may be warmed with hot bottles, which however should either be taken away before he gets into bed, or removed to such a distance that his feet cannot reach them, and in all cases the bottles should be wrapped up in thick flannel. At the same time the diet must be nourishing, and plenty of fresh air and light exercise should be insisted upon. Directly gangrene has actually occurred, or as soon as it is evident that it is inevitable, the first essential in the treatment is to disinfect the part thoroughly in the manner already described (see p. 64), and to favour evaporation of fluid from the tissues. Above all things, ointments, carbolic