234 SYPHILIS. linen and should not have a bath during these five days. At the end of this period he should take a warm bath, and then commence again and go on in this way till the gums become tender, which will usually be in about six or ten days. As soon as this happens, the patient should have a warm bath, put on clean linen, stop the inunction, and substitute for it the internal use of mercurials, such as 2-grain doses of pil. hydrargyri combined with extract of opium, three or four times daily, as already detailed (see p. 232). If, under this treatment, the condition of the gums gets worse, the dose of pil. hydrargyri should be reduced; if, on the other hand, it improves, the dose may. be slightly increased, and should be continued till the eruption disappears, and for two or three weeks afterwards, when it may be reduced to one half or one third of the amount; this must be continued for a considerable time, as has already been mentioned (see p. 233). Another method by which mercury can be introduced into the system through the skin is by fumigation, the drug employed for the purpose being calomel. Fumigation is performed by means of a vapour bath which is best taken at bed-time. About thirty grains of calomel are placed in a small metal dish which is surrounded by another containing a little boiling water, and the whole is placed over a spirit-lamp. This vaporizing apparatus is put under the seat of a cane chair, upon which the patient, divested of his clothes, sits surrounded by a blanket reaching to the floor, and tucked tightly round the neck so as to prevent the escape of the calomel vapour. It takes about twenty minutes for the calomel to be volatilized, and the patient sits meanwhile in a profuse perspiration, so that the drug is readily absorbed through the skin. After the sitting, the patient is wrapped in a blanket and goes to bed. About twice a week is generally sufficient for the baths, especially if the patient be at all weakly, but where it is necessary to get him rapidly under the influence of mercury one may be given every night. This method of treatment is especially useful for obstinate skin affections, but otherwise it is seldom employed: the smell of the vaporizing calomel is very penetrating and offensive. Lastly, there is the method of administration by intra-muscular injection. This is a very satisfactory plan where a speedy action is required, as for example in cases of rapidly spreading malignant syphilis, and it is also very useful in alcoholics, who get intestinal catarrh very readily when the drug is given by the mouth, so that there is imperfect absorption from the alimentary canal. The drug employed for injection is either the biniodide of mercury (^th to i of a grain) dissolved in water, or the bichloride {\Xh of a grain) with a little glycerine and water added. The injections should be made two or three times a week or, if there be great urgency, every day. A fresh place should be chosen on each occasion because a painful lump frequently forms at the seat of injection. Further- more, the injection should be made into a muscle, preferably into that of the buttock. A largish needle should be used, and its strength must be