GANGRENE. 64 or less rapid formation of a definite line of demarcation. Without going fully into the symptoms, it is self-evident that dry gangrene is much less unfavourable to the patient than the moist form. TREATMENT—(a) Local—The treatment of gangrene depends, to a great extent, on the cause of the particular form, but it will be ol advantage to refer here to one or two general principles. It is evident, from what has been said as to the difference in the symptoms in moist and dry gangrene, that the most important point in the treatment, if the gangrenous part be not removed, is to prevent the septic decomposition which will otherwise take place—in other words, to favour the production of the dry form. Hence, if it be suspected that gangrene is about to take place, as, for example, where the circulation in a part does not recover in reasonable time after embolism or ligature of an artery, the skin should be disinfected as thoroughly as possible. The limb is shaved and rubbed with turpentine so as to remove the grease, and then washed with soap and strong mixture (see p. 46). By means of a nail brush the part is thoroughly scrubbed for a considerable time with the strong disinfecting solution, and especial attention should be paid to the nails, which should be cut short; the folds of skin under and about them should be scrubbed with extreme care. Having thoroughly carried out the disinfection, the next procedure is to apply an antiseptic dressing designed to prevent decomposition and at the same time to allow drying of the part. The best is that usually employed for wounds, namely, a large mass of cyanide gauze soaked in a weak antiseptic solution, such as a 1-4000 sublimate solution, outside which is applied a thick layer of salicylic or, better, freshly sterilized wool, taken direct from the sterilizer and on which no dust has settled. It should be borne in mind that the organisms in dust have to be guarded against, as well as the pyogenic and other pathogenic organisms. This dressing permits drying, and it should not be disturbed unless it is wished to ascertain whether death has occurred, or unless discharge comes through. Above all things, the use of ointments should be avoided, because they prevent the evaporation of the fluid, and so keep the gangrenous part moist. The limb should be placed on a water pillow and slightly elevated. Other points in the treatment of gangrene, especially the question of amputation, will be considered in connection with the particular forms of gangrene. (b) General.—The general treatment will consist in the administration of strong and easily digested food, such as various extracts of beef, bovril, Valentine's meat juice, lean underdone meat, chicken, game, fish, etc. Stimulants are usually necessary; the best is brandy, or, if there be no diabetes, champagne. Besides these, drugs, more especially opium, must be employed to relieve the pain, and the excretions, in particular the free evacuation of the bowels, must be attended to. The urine should be carefully examined for sugar or albumen, and if either be found the necessary diet and treatment must be adopted.