ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 3 present any marked features of depression. On the other hand, another type termed the asthenic inflammatory fever is met with in certain cases; of this the great characteristic is marked depression of the vital powers. The temperature, as in the other case, is high, but the pulse is quicker and may run up to 130, and is soft and thready and quite easily compres- sible. The tongue is dry and brown, delirium, if present, is of a low muttering character, and the patient is generally in a semi-conscious state. TREATMENT.—-The treatment of inflammation must be considered under the heads of local and general treatment. The great characteristic of the inflammatory changes is that they only continue as long as the cause which produces them continues to act. As soon as the cause ceases to act, the inflammatory changes very quickly come to a standstill, and then either resolution or retrogression takes place. Removal of cause.—Hence, in the treatment of inflammation, the first great question is to ascertain whether or not it is possible to remove the cause. The causes of inflammation will be discussed more in detail under the heading of suppuration, but they may be divided, as regards treatment, into two classes, namely, those which are removable and those which are not readily got rid of. Removable causes are foreign bodies, chemical irritants, and the like. The irremovable causes are micro-organisms growing in the tissues, and they are, unfortunately, the more common. The action of these micro-organisms, however, is to a certain extent dependent upon, or influenced by, various circumstances which favour their growth. There- fore, if any foreign body or other removable cause is present, remove it, and if there is no cause that can be removed, try to put the tissues under the most favourable circumstances to resist the growth of the parasite, and, moreover, get rid of anything which is aiding its development. Local Treatment.—The most obvious symptom in inflammation is the congestion of the part, and the first point in the local treatment of acute inflammatory trouble, in cases where the cause is irremovable, is to attempt to diminish this congestion as far as possible. If one succeeds in diminishing the congestion one will also lessen the pain and the exuda- tion, and possibly also to some extent the constitutional disturbance. Position.—The first way in which congestion of a part should be relieved is by attention to its proper position. When an inflamed part is allowed to hang down, the throbbing and the pain are very much increased, as the result of the dilatation of the blood-vessels. The first essential in the treatment of acute inflammation, therefore, is to raise the inflamed part so as to place it, if possible, on a higher level than the heart, and by this means to diminish the congestion, not only by the mechanical emptying of the veins, but also by the production of reflex contraction of the arteries. Blood-letting.—A second method, by which the congestion of the part may be relieved and the local symptoms considerably subdued, is by blood letting, and this may be employed either in the form of general or local blood-letting.