4 methods he had before applied to the examination of the Shoulder, Hip, Knee and Ankle joints. 1 To obtain the forms and curves of facets of joints, flat cakes of white wax of about five mm. thickness are used. On one side the edge is bevelled to half this thickness, and cut as nearly as possible to the curve of the facet to be measured; it is then softened in a spirit flame, pressed gently on the facet and allowed to harden; during this pressure care must be taken that the wax is held at right angles to the surface. If the first impression given is not perfect, the process must be repeated until it exactly corresponds with the curve in question. The unbevelled side of the wax will now probably be uneven and will require levelling, after which the impression must be again applied, to see that it is not changed; if still exact, it is ready to be transferred to paper. For this, place the wax with its level side downwards on a piece of paper and trace the outline curve with a finely pointed pencil. All the principal curves of the facets may be obtained in this way, and with compasses the circles may be found, which would complete the arcs from which these curves are formed; the radii of these circles can then be measured and the geometrical form of the joint constructed. Besides the accuracy which this method gives, it has the great advantage of not injuring the joint measured and thus allowing an indefinite number of measurements to be taken from the same bone. The angles which the axes of the bones and facets 1 Aeby. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Gelenke. Deutsche Zeitschrift fur Chirurgie, Bd. VI. The Hip, Knee and Ankle joints were treated in the following Inaugural Dissertations. Fr. Schmid. Ueber Form und Mechanik des Hiiftgelenkes. Deutsche Zeitschrift fur Chirurgie, Bd. V. — H. Pvitz Beitrage zur Anatomie und Physiologie des Sprunggelenkes. Zeitschrift fiir praktische Veterinarwissenschaft von H. Piitz. 1876. — H. Albrecht. Zur Anatomie des Kniegelenkes. Deutsche Zeit- schrift fur Chirurgie, Bd. VII.