13 THE PRELIMINARY LECTURES Of both courses will, as stated above, commence on TUESDAY the 25th of OCTOBER, and be con- tinued on WEDNESDAY, and the Proper Business of both also will commence on TUES- DAY the 1st of NOVEMBER, being the first day after the Holidays. scenit to publish, a few clays before the commencement of the courses, in the two first pages of a pamphlet, (by no means composed of extracts from authors, but indicating great ori- ginality of genius ! 1 ! and by the bye, upon an entirely different subject,) some remarks of the most unskillful kind, on the great principle of Surgical operation proposed by him—he is far from thinking that such persons Mill not similarly condescend to imitate the plans here detailed. This, however, though as weak as unskillful (for, in scien- tific investigations, it is the proposer, generally, who can best execute the proposition) is all (hat he desires. It is for the diffusion of knowledge alone (hat he labours, and those who cannot invent useful methods of their own are Wellcome to the adoption of his. Where these persons act liberally, they shall have his applause; where they act meanly, he shall blame them; and where, even while they condescend to imitate him, they make puerile insinuations respecting prin- ciples of which they seem to have not the slightest compre- hension, he, here publicly pledges himself that, he shall drag them into that derision and contempt which interested artifice so justly deserves. Mr W. is not of opinion, that, after conduct of this kind, the weakness of any man protects him from severity :—where such men do such things, they are ge- nerally the tools of others, and it is through them alone that their employers can be affected. Of interested parties, how. ever active and desperate their agents, Mr W. has no fear— lie would scorn himself if he could fear them—he is willing to meet them, in disputation, either singly or collectively, upon any subject in the whole range of human science : he is willing, in particular, that the value of the principle of operation which he has proposed should be publicly and