K I LUp t ? S Of all the great hypotheses which have held an empire over Science, each, perhaps, in turn, has obtained the admiration of the Philosophers who lived during that epoch to which it owed its existence, and has also, in its turn, been thought to merit only the contempt or the invective of the following one. r This reflection forces me to condemn and to protest against that influence over the pursuits of Science, which the authority of great men has unwisely been permitted to assume unwisely, I say, because, in every question, the circumstances of which admit of and afford time for experi- ment and induction, the slightest reverence for authority, proves a proportionate privation of intellect. “ As to the overmuch credit,” says Lord Bacon, “ that hath been given unto Authors in “ Sciences, in making them dictators, that their works should stand; and not consuls to give ad- “ vice, the damage is infinite that Sciences have received thereby, as the principal cause that “ hath kept them low, at a stay, without growth or advancement. It is under the impression left by such views as these, that I think we ought to investigate those hypotheses in Philosophy, which, though at variance with common opinion, appear admi- rably ingenious, have not yet been successfully answered, and are, on that account, embraced by the most profound Philosophers of the present day. Every system then may be properly considered, with regard to its facts, its arrangement, its theory and its language. As to the facts, those of two centuries are before us, and I am convinced that they only require arrangehient in order to exhibit a connected and natural system of science. Its arrangement then is the first, and, indeed, the chief portion of any system which re- quires previous consideration. Such arrangement ought to exhibit the connection of the Sciences in general, and that of their individual portions with each other; and to shew, that instead of being disjoined, they, in reality,constitute, as it were, one science. This important truth I shall support by some very remarkable quotations from the works of Cicero, Lord Bacon and M. d’Alembert, though it will appear that the two latter, who at- tempted it, completely failed in constructing a system upon the principle. “ Etenim omnes artes,” says Cicero *, “ quse ad humanitatem pertinent, habept quoddam “ commune vinculum, et quasi cognatione quadam inter se continentur.” “ And generally let this be a rule” says Lord Bacon f, “ that all partitions of knowledge be « accepted rather for lines and veins, than for sections and separations, and that the continuance « and entireness of knowledge be preserved. For the contrary hereof hath made particular “ Sciences to become barren, shallow and erroneous, while they have not been nourished and “ maintained from the common fountain.” L’Univers,” says M. d’Alembert f, “ pour qui sauroit l’embrasser d’un seul point de « vue, ne seroit, s’il est permis de le dire, qu’un fait unique et une grande verite.” To such as respect authorities, these are great and decided. But unfortunately these senti- ments were not justly appreciated, clearly defined, accurately traced, or realised in application, even by the Philosophers who were impressed by then;. In order to evince the superiority of the natural system, upon •which the proposed -work •will he conductud, and its independence of their plans, I shall here prefix some critical observa- tions on the plans of Lord Bacon, Mr Locke, and M. d’Alembert. On this great and important subject, the plan proposed by Lord Bacon, is, in my opinion, very erroneous in two primary and essential points ; fu st, because in arranging Science according to the operations of the mind, it supposes these operations to precede natural facts, which is evi- dently absurd; and secondly, because by subjecting one Science to memory, another to imagi- nation, and a third to reason, it contradicts this infallible principle, that there is no Science which is exclusively the object of any one of the human faculties, or from the study of which man can derive benefit, without employing all of them. These observations will be justified by a view of his arrangement. Accordino-to Lord Bacon, Science is divided into History, Poctiy and Philosophy, cor- responding to° and dependent upon these three faculties of the mind, Memory, Imagination, Reason : History upon Memory, Poetry upon Imagination, and Philosophy upon Reason. Now, 1 say, this arrangement of the Sciences, according to an imaginary dependence upon the operations of the mind, supposes these operations to precede natural facts, which evidently is absurd, and by subjecting one Science to Memory, another to Imagination, and a third to Reason, it contradicts this infallible principle, that there is no Science which is exclusively the object of any one of the human faculties, or from the study of which man can derive benefit without employing all of them. Thus it involves two fundamental errors....If, indeed, History be not rendered a source of induction, its grand, its only end, it may become the mere o ’Nj. memory. But who then would wish to record human actions, or who would peruse a 1 of them ! It is only when History is treated as the source of induction, where Reason compares, * Pro Arch. Foct. Orat. + Of the advancement of Learning, Book. II. $ Discours Prdiminaire de L’Encyclopedic.