XI “ tlie external surface) into the cells of the ivory.’” ..... “ The essence of the theory evidently is a transition of “ pulp cells into ivory cells; and this essential element “ is developed in the papers of Mr. Nasmyth, which “ were published fourteen weeks before the presentation “ of Mr, Owen’s memoir to the Academy of Sciences.” In the Medical Gazette for 1839-40, vol. ii. p. 593, is the following passage. “ He (Mr, Owen) will never suc- “ ceed in convincing a single rational being that Mr. Nas“ “ myth, in the papers from which we have quoted above, “ (viz, the reports in the Literary Gazette and Athenaeum,) “ teaches the old doctrine of secretion or exudation of the “ ivory from the bulb, in contradistinction to Mr, Owen’s \ “ pretended ‘ nouvelle theorie ’ that the ivory is formed “ by the transition of the pulp to an ossified state.” The Dublin Medical Press says, in its No. for August 19, 1840, p. 121,—“ We have now given the substance of “ Mr. Nasmyth’s researches and discoveries, as related in “ the report of his papers published in the Literary Ga- “ zette of Sept. 21, 1839, and in the Athenaeum of Sept. “ 14, 1839. The most careless reader cannot cast his eyes “ over these reports without perceiving at once that they “ attempt to establish the vesicularity or cellularity of the “ pulp, and its conversion into the cells and fibres of the “ ivory by the deposition of osseous matter.” Asa specific and direct confirmation of the above public testimonies to the consistency of my opinions, it was with great pleasure that I was able to submit to the Council the following documents, which contain an account of the nature of my communications drawn up by three eminent physiologists, who saw them before I took them to Birming- ham, and consequently before there could be any motive for misrepresentation ; but I am sorry to say that even the receipt ol them, as was the case with the other gratuitous aids to inquiry which I have afforded, has never been acknowledged: