4 My attention was first drawn to the structure of the interfibrous substance on examining a delicate section of the fossil tooth of a rhinoceros, by the aid of a very high magnifying power; and I must here remark, that those who repeat these investiga- fibrous substance, I was compelled to conclude that this could only be produced by a process of transition which I then proceeded to trace. The results of my further inquiries will be given in the course of this memoir, but at greater length in the next. In connection with this subject may be examined PI. A. 3, Fig 6, at the end of the appended series of plates: it is copied from Retzius, and shows in a tooth, which he says is that of the adult horse, the corpuscles, or cells, as he calls them, in which, and on which, according to him, the dental tubes terminate. These corpuscles or cells are the dark spots with lines radiating from them, in a manner similar to the corpuscles of true bone. They are only to be found, he states, towards the periphery of the tooth. It will be seen at once that they are altogether distinct from the interfibrous cells which I have described, though one writer on Odontography has, from unaccountable ignorance of the subject, or from some other cause, confounded them with each other; and has accused me of announcing, as my own dis- covery, that which had been previously published by the distin- guished Swedish anatomist. Neither in connexion with this plate, nor in any other part of his work, does Retzius ascribe any structure to the proper interfibrous substance : he only alludes to the corpuscles above mentioned, which he says are extremely minute, and scarcely demonstrable in human teeth, and to what he terms the ramifications of the tubes, as occupying a portion of the interfibrous spaces. How the corpuscles of Retzius can have been mistaken for the cells of the interfibrous substance which I have described, I think any one who compares the former, as delineated in PI. A. 3, Figs. 4 and 6, at the end of the series appended, with the latter as represented in Figs 8 and 10 of PI. C. 5, will be at a loss to imagine.