SPLANCHNOLOGY 1072 structure (iig. 888).—The trachea is composed of imperfect rings of hyaline cartilage, fibrous tissue, muscular fibres, mucous membrane, and glands. The cartilages vstry from sixteen to twenty in number : each forms an imperfect ring, which occupies the anterior two-thirds or so of the circumference of the trachea, being deficient behhid, where the tube is completed by fibrous tissue and unstriped muscular fibres. The cartilages are placed horizontally above each other, separated by narrow intervals. They measure about 4 mm. Fia. 887.—Transverse section of the trachea, in depth, and 1 mm. in tliickness. Their just above its bifurcation, with a bird's-eye outer surfaces are flattened, but in- view of the interior. ternally they are convex, fiom bemg tliicker in the middle than at the margins. Two or more of the cartilages often unite, partially or completely, and they are sometimes bifurcated at theii- extremities. They are highly elastic, but may become calcified in advanced life. In the right bronchus the cartilages vary in number from six to eight ; in the left, from nine to twelve. They are shorter and narrower than those of the trachea. The peculiar tracheal cartilages are the fii'st and the last. The/r5< cartilage is broader than the rest, and often divided at one end ; it is connected by fibrous membrane with the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, with which, or with the succeeding cartilage, it is sometimes blended. The last cartilage is thick and broad in the middle, in consequence of its lower border being prolonged into a triangular hook-shaped process, which curves downwards and backwards between the two bronchi. It terminates on each side in an imperfect ring, which encloses the commence- "" Fig. 888.- ment of the bronchi. The carti- lage above the last is somewhat broader than the rest at its centre. The fibrous membrane. — The cartilages are enclosed in an elastic fibrous membrane, which consists of two layers ; one, the thicker of the two, passing over the outer siu-face of the ring, the other over the inner surface: at the upper and lower margins of the cartilages the two layers blend together to form a single mem- brane, which connects the rings one with another. They are thus, as it were, imbedded in the mem- brane. In the space behind, between the extremities of the rings, the membrane forms a single distinct layer. The muscular tissue consists of two layers of non-striated muscle, longitudinal and trans- verse. The longitudinal fibres are external, and consist of a few scattered longitudinal bundles. The transverse fibres (Trachealis muscle) are internal, and form a thin layer which extends trans- versely between the ends of the cartilages. Mucous membrane. — The mucous membrane is continuous above with that of the larynx, and below with that of the bronchi. It consists of areolar and lymphoid tLs-sue, and presents -Transverse section of trachea. stratified epithelium Longitudinal elastic fibres Submucous layer Mucous glands Fibrous embrane Hyaline cartilage Fibrous nicmbrniie '111e"submucous layer is composed oi blood-vessels, nerves, ana the ductVof the latter pierce the overlying layers and open on the surface. Beneath the bascmont-membranc there is with a small amount of intervening areolar tissue, a loose mesh-work of connective tissue, contammg large mucous glands;