737 VEINS OF THE BRAIN the surface of the temporal lobe, and, running along the fissure of Sylvius, opens into the cavernous simis. Another large vein, the (jrcat anastomotic vein of Trolard, connects the superior longitudinal and cavernous sinuses, by becoming contiimous above with one of the superior cerebral veins, and below by joining the middle cerebral vein. A third, the posterior anastomotic vein of Ldbhc, connects the middle cerebral vein with the lateral sinus by coursing over the temporal lobe. A fourth, the basilar vein (v. basalis [Rosenthali]), is formed at the anterior perforated spot by the iinion of («) a small anterior cerebral vein which accompanies the anterior cerebral artery, (6) the deef Sylvian vein which receives tributaries from the island of Reil and neighbouring convolutions, and runs in the lower part of the Sylvian fissure, and (c) the inferior striate veins which leave the corpus striatum through tlie anterior perforated space. The basilar vein passes backwards round the crus cerebri, and ends in the vein of Galen ; it receives tributaries from the interpedun- cular space, the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, the uncinate gyi"us, and the mid-brain. Small inferior cerebral veins from the under surface of the frontal lobe end in the cavernous sinus; others from the temporal lobe terminate in the superior petrosal and lateral sinuses. The deep cerebral veins (vv. cerebri internee) are collected into two large trunks, named the veins of Galen. Each of these is formed by the union of two veins, the vena corporis striati and the choroid vein (v. choroidea). They run backwards, parallel with one another, between the layers of the velum interpositum, and beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum, where they unite to form a short trunk, the vena magna Galeni (v. cerebri magna), whicli ends in the anterior extremity of the straight sinus. Just before their union each receives the corresponding basilar vein. The vena corporis striati commences in the groove between the corpus striatum and thalamus, i-eceives numerous veins from both of these parts, and unites behind the anterior pillar of the fornix with the choroid vein, to form one of the vente Galeni. The choroid vein runs along the whole length of the outer border of the choroid plexus, and receives veins from the hippocampus major, the fornix and the corpus callosum. The cerebellar veins are placed on the surface of the cerebellum, and are disposed in two sets, superior and inferior. The superior cerebellar veins (vv. cerebelli superiores) pass partly forwards and inwards, across the superior vermis, to terminate in the straight sinus and venfe Galeni, partly outwards to the lateral and superior petrosal sinuses. The inferior cerebellar veins (vv. cerebelli inferiores), of large size, terminate in the lateral, supei-ior petrosal, and occipital sinuses. Sinuses of the Dura Mater The sinuses of the dura mater (sinus durse matris) are venous channels which dram the blood from the brain ; they are situated between the two layers of the dura mater and lined by endothelium continuous with that which lines the veins, rhey are fourteen in number, of which six are single and situated in the middle line ; ttie other eight are paired, four being placed on either side of the middle line. They may be divided into two gi-oups : (1) a postero-superior group situated at the upper and back part of the skull, and (2) an antero-inferior group at the base of the skull. The postero-superior group comprises the Superior longitudinal sinus. Straight sinus. Inferior longitudinal sinus. Two lateral sinuses. Occipital sinus. The superior longitudinal sinus (smus sagittalis superior) (fig. 630) occupies wie attached margin of tlie falx cerebri. Commencing at the foramen ca3cum, inrough which it communicates by a small brancii with the veins of the nasal loss^. It runs from before backwards, grooving the inner surface of the uontal, the adjacent margins of the two parietals, and the superior division ot the crucial ridge of the occipital; near the internal occipital protuberance 11 deviates to one or otiier side (usually the right), and is continued as the Loiresponcling lateral sinus. The sinus is triangular in section ; it is narrow in nont, and gradually increases in size as it passes backwards. Its inner surface 3 B