336 OSTEOLOGY the gluteal ridge (tuberositas glutaea), and gives attachment to part of the Gluteus maximus: its upper part is often elongated mto a roughened crest, on which a more or less well-marked, rounded tubercle, the trocJmnler tertius, is occasionally developed. The middle ridge (linoa pectinea) is contmucd to the base of the small trochanter and gives attachment to the Pectineus ; the internal ridge is lost above in the spiral line of the femur ; between these two a portion of the Iliacus is inserted. Below, the linea aspera is prolonged by two ridges, enclosing between them . a. triangular area, the popliteal surface (planum popliteum), upon which the popliteal artery rests. Of these two ridges, the outer is the more prominent, and descends to the summit of the external condyle. The inner is less marked, especially at its upper part, where it is crossed by the femoral artery. It terminates, below, at the summit of the internal condyle, in a small tubercle, the adductor tubercle, which affords insertion to the tendon of the Adductor magnus. _ From the inner lip (labium mediale) of the luiea aspera and its mner prolongations above and below, the Vastus uiternus arises; and from the outer lip (labium laterale) and its outer prolongation above, the Vastus externus takes origm. The Adductor magnus is mserted mto the Imea aspera, to its outer prolongation above, and its inner prolongation below. Between the Vastus externus and the Adductor magnus two muscles are a^tached—viz. the Gluteus maximus inserted above and the short head of the Biceps arising below. Between the Adductor magnus and the Vastus mternus four muscles Fig. 389.—Lower extremity of right femiu- viewed from below. Outer groove- Outer tubcrositij-i Inner groove Inner tuberosity Semilunar area are inserted : the Iliacus and Pectineus above ; the Adductor brevis and AdduSor longus below. The linea aspera is perforated a little below its centre by the nutrient canal, which is directed obHquely upwards. ^ The two lateral borders of the femur are only shghtly marked. the outer extends from the antero-inferior angle of the great trochanter to the anterior Stremity of the external condyle ; the inner from the spiral h.ie, at a point opposTte the small trochanter, to the anterior extremity of the internal condyle. The inner border marks the internal limit of attachment of the Crureus. The anterior surface includes that portion of the shaft which sitxiated between the two lateral borders. It is smooth, convex, broader above and bdovrtharin the centre, and slightly twisted, so that its upper part is dn-ected forwids an a little outwards, its lower part forwards and a httle mwards. From the upper three-fourths of this surface the Crureus arises ; the lower fm?rTh is separated from the muscle by the mtervention o the synovial mSraL of^The knee-joint and a bursa, and gives origin to the Subcrure^s. rnij^;,ir^ss;J^^:of^^ the Vastus internus.