CAEDIAC VEINS 729 of the coronary siiius. It receives blood from the back of the right auricle and ventricle; its largest tributary, the right marginal vein, ascends along the right naargin of the heart and joins it in the auriculo-ventricular groove. 3. The middle cardiac vein (v. cordis media) commences at the apex of the heart, ascends in the posterior interventricular groove, and ends in the coronary sinus near its right extremity. 4. The posterior vein of the left ventricle (v. posterior ventriculi sinistri) ascends on the back of the left ventricle to the coronary sinus, but may end in the great cardiac vein. 5. The oblique vein of Marshall (v. obliqua. atrii sinistri) is a small vessel which descends obliquely on the back of the left auricle and ends in the coronary sinus near its right extremity; it is continuous above with the vestigial fold of Marshall, and the two structures form the remnant of the left Cuverian duct. The following cardiac veins do not terminate in the coronary sinus : (1) the anterior cardiac veins (vv. cordis anteriores), comprising three or four small vessels which collect blood from the front of the right ventricle and open into the right auricle. The right marginal vein frequently opens into the right auricle, and is therefore sometimes regarded as belonging to this group. (2) The veins of Thebesius {vy. cordis minimfe), consisting of a number of minute veins which arise in the muscidar wall of the heart; the majority open into the auricles, but a few terminate in the ventricles. VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK The veins of the head and neck may be subdivided into thi-ee groups : 1. The veins of the exterior of the head and lace. 2. The veins of the neck. 3. The veins of the diploe and the interior of the cranium. Veins of the Exterior of the Head and Face (fig. 626) The veins of the exterior of the head and face are: Frontal. Superficial temporal. Supra-orbital. Internal maxillary. Angular. Temporo-maxillary. Facial. Posterior auricular. Occipital. The frontal vein (v. frontalis) commences on the anterior part of the skull in a venous plexus which communicates with the anterior tributaries of the temporal vein. The veins converge to form a single trunk, which runs downwards near the middle line of the forehead parallel with the vein of the opposite side. The two veins are joined, at the root of the nose, by a transverse branch, called the naml arch, which receives some small veins from the dorsum of the nose. Occasionally the frontal veins join to form a single trunk, which bifurcates at the root of the nose into the two angular veins. At the root of the nose the veins diverge, and, each at the inner angle of the orbit, joins the supra-orhital vein, to form the angular vein. The supra-orbital vein (v. supraorbitalis) commences on the forehead, com- numicatmg -with the anterior temporal vein, and runs downwards and inwards, superficial to the Occipito-frontalis muscle; it receives tributaries fi-om the neighbouring structures, and joins the frontal vein at the inner angle of the orbit to form the angular vein. Previous to its junction with the frontal vein, it sends through the supra-orbital notch into the orbit a branch which communicates mth the ophthalmic vein. As this vessel passes through the notch, it receives a diploic vein from the diploe of the frontal bone, through a foramen at the bottom of the notch. The angular vein (v. angularis), formed by the junction of the frontal and supra-orbital veins, runs obliquely downwards and outwards, on the side of the root ot the nose, to the level of the lower margin of the orbit, where it becomes the lacial vein. It receives the veins of the ala nasi on its inner side, and the superior palpebral veins on its outer side ; it comnnmicates with the ophthalmic vein, tnus estabhshing an important anastomosis between the facial vein and the cavernous sinus.