MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE THORAX 505 It appears that the position of the Diaphragm in the thorax depends upon three main factors, viz.: (1) the elastic retraction of the lung-tissue, tending to pull it upwards ; (2) the pressure exerted on its under surface by the viscera: this naturally tends to be a negative pressure, or downward suction, when the patient sits or stands, and positive, or an upward pressure, when he lies ; (3) the intra-abdominal tension due to the abdominal muscles. These are in a state of contraction in the standing position and not in the sitting ; hence the Diaphragm, when the patient stands, is pushed up higher than when he sits. The Intercostal muscles, internal and external, have probably no action in moving the ribs. They contract simultaneously and form strong elastic supports which prevent the intercostal spaces being pushed out or drawn in during respiration. The anterior portions of the Internal intercostals probablv have an additional function in keeping the chondro-sternal and interchondral joint surfaces in apposition, the posterior parts of the External intercostals performing a similar function for the costo-vertebral articulations. The Levatores costarum being inserted near the fulcra of the ribs can have little action on the ribs; they act as rotators and lateral flexors of the vertebral column. The Triangularis sterni draws down the costal cartilages, and is therefore a muscle of expiration. Mechanism of Respiration The respiratory movements must be examined during (a) quiet respiration, and (b) forced respiration. Quiet respiration.—The first and second pairs of ribs are fixed by the Scaleni and by the resistance of the cervical structures ; the last pair, and through it the eleventh, by the Quadratus lumborum. The other ribs are elevated, so that the first two intercostal spaces are diminished while the others are increased in TOdth. It has already been shown (p. 392) that elevation of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs leads to an increase in the antero-posterior and transverse diameters of the thorax : the vertical diameter is increased by the descent of the diaphragmatic dome so that the lungs are expanded in all directions except backwards and upwards. Elevation of the eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs is accompanied by an outward and backward movement, leading to an increase in the transverse diarneter of the upper part of the abdomen; the elasticity of the anterior abdominal wall allows a slight increase in the antero-posterior diameter of this part, and in this way the decrease in the vertical diameter of the abdomen is compensated and space provided for its displaced viscera. Expiration is effected bv the elastic recoil of its walls and by the action of the abdominal muscles, which push back the viscera displaced downwards by the Diaphragm. Forced respiration.—All the movements of quiet respiration are here carried out, but to a greater extent. In inspiration the shoulders and the vertebral borders of the scapulaj are fixed and the limb muscles. Trapezius, Serratus magnus. Pectorals, and Latissimus dorsi, are called into play. The Scaleni are in stronger action, and the Sterno-mastoids also assist when'the head is fixed by drawint^ up the sternum and by fixing the clavicles. The first rib is therefore no longer stationary, but, with the sternum, is raised ; with it all the other ribs except the last are raised to a higher level. In conjunction with the increased descent 01 the Diaphragm this provides for a considerable augmentation of all the thoracic diameters. The anterior abdominal muscles come into action so that the umbilicus IS drawn upwards and backwards, but this allows the Diaphragm to exert a more powerful influence on the lower ribs; the transverse diameter of the upper part ot the abdomen is greatly increased and the subcostal angle opened out. The deeper muscles of the back, e.g. the Serrati postici superiores and Erectores spinte, are also brought into action ; the thoracic curve of the vertebral column is partially straightened, and the whole column, above the lower lumbar vertebriB, drawn oackwards. This increases the antero-posterior diameters of the thorax and upper part of the abdomen and widens the intercostal spaces. Forced expiration IS eaected by the recoil of the walls and by the contraction of the antero-lateral Serm abdominal wall, and the Serrati postici inferiores and Triangularis Halls Dally (op. cit.) gives the following figures as representing the average changes wMon occur dunng deepest possible respkation. The presternum moves 30 mm. in an