458 MYOLOGY oyer the external angular process. From these attachments the fibres are cUrected upwards and jom the aponeurosis below tlie coronal suture The niner margms ot the frontal portions of the two muscles are joined togetiiei- for some distance above the root of the nose ; but between the occipital portin there is a considerable, though variable, interval, which is occupied bv iIm- a25oneurosis. ^ ' The epicranial aponeurosis (galea aponeurotica) covers the upper part ot the vertex of tlie skull, being continuous across the middle line with the aponeurosis ot the opposite muscle. Behind, it is attached, in the interval betwee^n the occipital origins, to the occipital protuberance and liighest curved ines ot the occipital bone ; in front, it forms a short and narrow in-olongation between the frontal portions. On either side it gives origin to the AttoUens and Attrahens muscles of the pinna ; in this situation it loses its aponeurotic character, and is continued over the temporal fascia to tlie zygoma as a laxn ot laminated areolar tissue. This aponeurosis is closely connected to tlie integument by the firm, dense, fibro-fatty layer which forms the suijerficial tascia : it is connected with the pericranium bv loose ceUular tissue, which allows of a considerable degree of movement of the aponeurosis, cam-incr with it the integument. ^ ^ Nerves.—The frontal portion is suppUed by the temporal branches of the facial nerve ; the occipital portion by the posterior auricular branch of the same nerve. Actions.—The frontal portion of the muscle raises the eyebrows and the skin over the root of the nose, and at the same time draws the scalp forwards, throwint.' the integument of the forehead into transverse wrinkles. The posterior portion draws the scalp backwards. By bringing alternately into action the frontal and occipital portions the entire scalp may be moved forwards and backwards. In the ordinary action of the muscles, the eyebrows are elevated, and at the same time the aponeurosis is fixed by the posterior portion, thus gi^nug to the face the expression of surprise : if the action be exaggerated, the evebrows are still further raised, and the skin of the forehead thrown into transverse wrmkles. a~ in the expression of fright or horror. Applied Anatomy.—Fvom an anatomical point of view, the scalp consists of five layers. VIZ. the skin, subcutaneous tissue, Occipito-frontaUs muscle and its aponeurosis, su1> aponeui-otic connective tissue, and pericranium. But from a sm-gical standpoint it is better to regard the first three of these structures as a single layer, since they are all intimately fused together, and when torn off in an accident, or turned do-vvn as a flap in a surgical operation, remain firmly connected to each other. In consequence of the dense character of the subcutaneous tissue, the amount of swellmg which occurs as the result of mflammation is slight ; and the edges of a wound which does not involve the Occipito-frontaUs muscle or its aponeurosis do not gape. The blood-vessels, also, which lie m this tissue, when wounded, are unable to contract and retract freely ; and therefori the hemorrhage from scalp wounds is often very considerable, but can always be arrested by pressure—a matter of great importance, as it is often very difficult or impossible to pick up with forceps a wounded vessel in the scalp. The subaponeurotic connective tissue is, from a surgical point of xiqw, of considerable importance. It is loose and lax, and is easily torn through ; and hence, when a flai^ wound occurs in the scalp, this is the tissue which is torn ■i\hen the flap is separated from the parts beneath. The vessels are therefore torn down with the flap, and there is little risk of sloughing, unless the vitaUty of the part has been actually destroyed by the injury. In consequence of its loose nature and feeble vitality, any septic iiiflammation is apt to assume a very diffuse form and spread all over the skull, and, unless reheved bj^ timely incisions may lead to serious complications. Owing to the attachments of the aponeurosis to the zygoma and highest curved line, subaponeurotic effusions sag 6o\yn in these situa tions, but do not extend beyond to the zygomatic fossa or into the neck ; but anteriorly. where there is no definite attachment to bone, the effusion will jiass down over the nose, and into the eyelids. When making incisions into the scalp, care should be taken to avoid the course of the main arteries. The skin of the scalp is abundantly sujiplied with sebaceous and sudoriparous glands. The former are sometimes the seat of cystic enlargement, constituting the so-called sebaceoum cysts or wens. II. Auricular Region (fig. 481) Attrahens auriculam. Attollens auriculam. Retrahens auriculam. These three small muscles arc placed immediately beneath tiie skin around the pinna. In man, in whom the pinna is almost immovable, they are