ORBITAL REGION 463 .are corrected by the Oblique muscles, tlie Inferior oblique correcting the deviation •inwards of the Superior rectus, and the Superior obUque that of the Inferior ■rectus The contraction of the External or Internal rectus, on the other hand, produces a purely horizontal movement. If any two contiguous Recti of one eye Xct together they carry the globe of the eye in the diagonal of these directions, !viz upwards and inwards, upwards and outwards, downwards and inwards, or ^downwards and outwards. A little consideration \vill show that sometimes the corresponding Recti of the two eyes act in unison, and at others the opposite llRecti act together. Thus, in turning the eyes to the right, the External rectus 'of the right eye will act in unison with the Internal rectus of the left eye ; but if hboth eyes are directed to an object in the middle line at a short distance, the [■two Internal recti will act in unison. The movement of circumduction, as in looking round a room, is performed by the successive action of the four Recti. IThe ObUque muscles rotate the eyeball on its antero-posterior axis, the Superior .idirectinc the cornea downwards and outwards, and the Inferior directing it iiupwards and outwards ; these movements are required for the correct viewing of Am object when the head is moved laterally, as from shoulder to shoulder, in order that the picture may fall in all respects on the same part of the retina of (•either eve. Fasciae of the orbit.—The connective tissue of the orbit is in various I places condensed into thin membranous layers, which may be conveniently ddescribed as (1) the orbital fascia ; (2) the sheaths of tlie muscles ; and I (3) the fascia of the eyeball. (1) The orbital fascia. This forms the periosteum of the orbit. It is 1 loosely connected to the bones, and can be readily separated from them. 1 Behind, it is connected with the dura mater by processes which pass through • the optic foramen and sphenoidal fissure, and with tlie sheath of the optic I nerve. In front, it is connected with the periosteum at the margin of the I orbit, and sends off a process which assists in forming the palpebral fascia. 1 From its internal surface two processes are given off : one to enclose the 1 lachrymal gland, the other to hold the puUey of the Superior oblique muscle i in position. A layer of non-striped muscle, the Orhitalis mtiscle of H. MiiUer, 1 may be seen bridging across the spheno-maxillary fissure. "(2) The .?heaths of the muscles give off expansions to the margins of the < orbit, which limit the action of the muscles. (3) The fascia of the eyeball—Tenon's capsule—will be described with the f anatomy of the eyeball. Applied Anatomy.—The position.s and exact points of insertion of the tendons of the i Internal and External recti into the globe should be carefully examined from the front of the eyeball, as the surgeon is often required to divide one or other of the muscles for • the cure of strabismus. In convergent strabismus, which is the more common form of ■ the disease, the eye is turned inwards, requiring the division of the Internal rectus. In • the divergent form, which is more rare, the eye is turned outwards, the External rectiis I being especially implicated. The deformity produced in either case is to be remedied by division of one or tlie other muscle. The operation is thus performed : the lids are to I be well separated ; the eyeball is rotated outwards or inwards, and the conjunctiva raised ' by a pair of forceps, and incised immediately beneath the lower border of the tendon ' of the muscle to be divided, a little beliind its insertion into the sclera ; the submucous I areolar tissue is then divided, and into the small aperture thus made, a blunt hook is 1 passed upwards between the muscle and tlie globe, and the tendon of the muscle divided by a pair of blunt-pointed scissors passed between the hook and the globe. A more recent operation is that of advancement in which either the Internal or External ; rectus (depending on the form of strabismus) is shortened. The muscle is exposed in the same manner ; a portion is then cut out of it and the cut ends are sewn together. V. Nasal Region (fig. 486) Pyramidalis nasi. Dilatator naris anterior. Levator labii superioris alaeque nasi. Compressor naris. Dilatator naris posterior. Compressor narium minor. Depressor alse nasi. The Pyramidalis nasi (m. procerus) is a small pyramidal slip placed over the nasal bone. Its origin is by tendinous fibres from^the fascia covering the