678 ANGIOLOGY The radialis indicis (a. volaris indicis radialis) arises close to the preceding, descends between the Abductor indicis and Adductor transversus pollicis, and runs along the radial side of the index finger to its extremity, where it anastomoses witli the collateral digital artery from the superficial palmar arch. At the lower border of the Adductor transversus pollicis, this vessel anastomoses with the princeps pollicis, and gives a communicating branch to the superficial palmar arch. The perforating arteries Fig. 599.—Ulnar and radial arteries. Deep view. Badial recurrent Posterior interosseous Muscular Anterior carpal Superficialia volte Anasfomotica maffita Anterior ulnar recurrent ^Posterior ulnar recurrent (rami perforantes), three in number, pass backwards from the deep palmar arch, through the second, third, and fourth interosseous spaces and between the heads of the corresponding Interossei, to anastomose \vith the dorsal interosseous arteries. The palmar interosseous (aa. metacarpea3 v o 1 a r e s), three or four in number, arise from the convexity of the deep palmar arch; they run downwards upon the Interossei, and anastomose at the clefts of the fingers with the digital branches of the superficial arch. The recurrent branches arise from the concavity of the deep palmar arch. They ascend in front of the wrist, supplying the carpal articu- lations and anastomosing with the anterior carpal arch. Ulnak Arteky (fig. 599) ■Muscular Anterior carpal Deep branch of ulnar The ulnar artery (a. ulnaris), the larger of the two termiiral branches of the brachial, commences a little helow the bend of the elbow, and, passing obliquely downwards and inwards, reaches the inner side of the forearm at a point about midway be- tA^-een the elbow and the MTist. It tlieu runs along the ulirar border to the m-ist, crosses the annular ligament on the radial side of the pisiform bone, and immediately beyond this bone divides into two branches, which enter into the formation of tlie superficial and deep palmar arches. Relations, (a) In the forearm.-In its nvper half, covered bv all the superficial Flexor muscles, except the Flexor ^^'^Pi ""i''", ; 't hes upon the Brachialis anticus and Flexor profundus digitorum mi.scle Tbr median nerve is in relation with the inner side of the artery for - 'J " ^^^^^J E bosses the vessel, being separated from it by the deep head of the Tionator