1227 THE UTERUS The sermis coat is derived from the jjeritoneum ; it invests the fundus and the whole of the posterior surface of the uterus ; but covers the anterior surface only as far as the junction of the body and cervix. In the lower fourth of the posterior surface the peritoneum, though covering the uterus, is not closelj' connected with it, being separated from it by a layer of loose cellular tissue and some large veins. The muscular coat forms the chief bulk of the substance of the uterus. In the virgin it is dense, firm, of a greyish colour, and cuts almost like cartilage. It is thick opposite the middle of the body and fundus, and thin at the orifices of the Fallopian tubes. It consists of bundles of unstriped muscular fibres, disjjosed in layers, intermixed with areolar tissue, blood-vessels, l5rmphatic vessels, and nerves. During pregnancy the muscular tissue becomes more prominently developed, and is disposed in three layers : external, middle, and internal. The external layer, placed beneath the peritoneum, is disposed as a thin plane on the anterior and posterior surfaces. It consists of fibres which pass transversely across the fundus, and, converging at each superior angle of the uterus, are continued on to the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ligament of the ovary : some passing at each side into the broad ligament, and others running backwards from the cervix into the sacro-uterine ligaments. The middle layer of fibres, which is thickest, presents no regu- larity in its arrangement, being disposed longitudinally, obliquely, and transversely. It contains most blood-vessels. The internal or deejs layer consists of circular fibres arranged in the form of two hollow cones, the apices of which surround the orifices of the Fallopian Fig. 1017.—Sagittal section tlu-ough the j)elvis of a newly born female child. tubes, their bases interminghng with one another on the middle of the body of the uterus. At the internal os these circular fibres form a distinct sphincter. The mucous membrane is thin, smooth, and closely adherent to the subjacent tissue. It IS continuous, through the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tubes, with the peritoneum ; and, through the os uteri, with the lining of the vagina. In the body of the uterus the mucous membrane is smooth, soft, of a pale red colour, lined by columnar ciliated epithelium, and presents, when viewed \vith a lens, the orifices of numerous tubular follicles, arranged perpendicularly to the surface. It is unprovided with any submucosa, but is intimately connected wdth the innermost layer of the mus- cular coat, which by some anatomists is regarded as the muscularis mucosEe". The structure of the corium differs from that of ordinary mucous membranes, and consists of an embryonic nucleated and highly cellular form of connective tissue in which run munerous large lymphatics. In it are the tube-like uterine glands, which are of small size in the unimpreg nated uterus, but shortly after impregnation become enlarged and elongated, presentina a contorted or waved appearance (see page 97). They consist of a delicate membrane" lined by an epithelium, which becomes ciliated towards the orifices. In the cervix the mucous membrane is sharply differentiated from that of the uterine cavity. It is thrown into numerous oblique ridges, which diverge from an anterior and posterior longitudinal raphe, presenting an appearance which has received the name of aroor vilm. In the upper two-thirds of the canal, the mucous membrane is provided with numerous deep glandular follicles, which secrete a clear viscid alkaline mucus ; and. in addition, extending through the whole length of the canal is a variable number of little cysts, presumably follicles which have become occluded and distended with retained