SHOULDER-JOINT 405 of them is situated on the inner side of the join and passes from tlie innei edge of the glenoid cavity to the lower part of the lesser tuberosity of the huSerus A second is situated at the lower part of the joint, and passes from he under edge of the glenoid cavity to the under part of the anatomical neck of the humerus. A third is situated at the upper part of the jomt, and is fixed above to the apex of the glenoid cavity close to the root of the coracoid process, and passing downwards along the inner edge of the tendon of the Biceps is attached below to a small depression above the lesser tubeiosity of the'humerus. In addition to these, the capsule is strengthened externally on its anterior aspect by two bands derived from the tendons of the Pectoralis major and Teres major respectively. i i, i t The Transverse Humeral Ligament is a broad band of fibrous tissue passing from the lesser to tlie greater tuberosity of the humerus and always limited to that portion of the bone ^v\uch. lies above the epiphysial hue It converts the bicipital groove into an osseo-aponeurotic canal, and is tiie homologue of the strong process of bone which connects the summits of the two tuberosities m the musk ox. . The Glenoid Ligament (labrum glenoidale) is a fibro-cartilaginous rim attached round the margin of the glenoid cavity. It is triangular on section, Fig 451.—Coronal sections through the shoulder-joint (a) with the arm hanging by the side; (b) with the arm abducted at right angles. (After Henle.) B SUPItASl'INATt'S ClaBieln TUICEPS ircuiiiflex vessels Circumflex vessels the .thickest portion being fixed to the circumference of the cavity, the free edge being thin and sharp. It is continuous above with the long tendon of the Biceps, which gives off two fasciculi, to blend with the fibrous tissue of the ligament. This ligament deepens the cavity for articulation, and protects the edges of the bone. The Synovial Membrane is reflected from the margin of the glenoid cavity over the glenoid ligament; it is then reflected over tlie internal surface of the capsular ligament, and covers the loAver part and sides of the anatomical neck of the humerus as far as the cartUage covering the head of the bone. The long tendon of the Biceps which passes through the capsular ligament is enclosed in a tubular sheath of synovial membrane, which is reflected upon it at the point where it perforates the capsule, and is continued around it as far as the summit of the glenoid cavity. The tendon of the Biceps thus traverses the articulation, but it is not contained in the interior of the synovial cavity. Bursse.—The bursfe in the neighbourhood of the shoulder-joint are the fol- lowiug : (1) A constant bursa is situated between the tendon of the Subscapularis muscle and the capsule of the joint; it communicates with the synovial cavity through an opening in the front of the capsular Ugament: (2) a bursa which occasionally communicates with the joint is sometimes found between the tendon