METATARSAL BONES 359 plantar surfaces are rough for the attachment of ligaments. The anterior extremity, or head (capitulum), presents a terminal convex articular surface, oblong from above downwards, and extending farther backwards below than above. Its sides are flattened, and on each is a depression, surmounted by a tubercle, for ligamentous attachment. Its under surface is grooved in the middle line for the passage of the Flexor tendons, and marked on either side by an articular eminence continuous with the terminal articular surface. Pbcxjliar Characters of the Metatarsal Bones The first metatarsal bone (fig. 411) is remarkable for its great thickness, and is the shortest of aU the metatarsal bones. The shaft is strong, and of well-marked prismoid form. The posterior extremity presents, as a rule, no lateral articular facets, but occasionally on the outer side there is an oval facet, by which it articulates -with the second metatarsal. Its terminal articular surface is of large size and kidney-shaped ; its circumference is grooved, for the tarso-metatarsal ligaments, and internally gives insertion to part of the tendon of the Tibialis anticus ; its inferior angle presents a rough oval prominence for the insertion of the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The head is large ; on its plantar surface are two grooved facets, over which glide sesamoid bones ; the facets are separated by a smooth elevated ridge. Fig. 411.^—The first metataxsal. (Left.) Fig. 412.—The second metatarsal. (Left.) cuneiform ' cuneiform For middle For external cuneiform cuneiform The second metatarsal bone (fig. 412) is the longest and largest of the remaining metatarsal bones, being prolonged backwards into the recess formed by the three cuneiform bones. Its 'posterior extremity is broad above, narrow and rough below. It presents four articular surfaces : one behind, of a trian- gular form, for articulation with the middle cuneiform ; one at the upper part of its internal surface, for articulation with the internal cuneiform ; and two on its external surface, an upper and lower, separated by a rough non-articular mterval. Each of these external articular surfaces is divided into two by a vertical ridge ; the two anterior facets articulate with the third metatarsal; the two posterior (sometimes continuous) with the external cuneiform. A fifth facet is occasionally present for articulation with the first metatarsal; It is oval in shape, and is situated on the inner side of the shaft near the base.