SYNDESMOLOGY 374 below, and tliicker in the thoracic than in the cervical or lumbar regions. In the situation of the intervertebral discs and contiguous margins of the vertebrae, where the ligament is more intimately adherent, it Ls broad, and in the thoracic and lumbar regions presents a series of dentations with intervening concave margins ; but it is narrow and thick over the centres of the bodies, from .which it is separated by the venae basis vertebrce. This ligament is composed of smooth, shining, longitudinal fibres, denser and more compact than those of the anterior ligament, and consists of superficial layers occupying the interval between three or four vertebrae, and deeper layers which extend between one vertebra and the next adjacent to it. It is separated from the dura mater of the spinal cord by some loose connective tissue. The Intervertebral Discs (fibrocartilagines intervertebrales) (figs. 424, 436) are interposed between the adjacent surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum, and form the chief bonds of connection between the vertebrae. They vary in shape, size, and thickness, in different parts of the vertebral column. In shape and size they correspond with the surfaces of the bodies between which they are placed, except in the cervical region, where they are slightly smaller from side to side than the corresponding bodies. In thick- ness they vary not only in the different regions of the column, but in different parts of the same disc ; they are thicker Fig. 425.—Posterior common ligament, in the thoracic region. Pedicle {cut) ■Intervertehral disc in front than behind in the cervical and lumbar regions, and thus con- tribute to the anterior convexities of the column in these regions; while they are of nearly imiform thickness ia the thoracic region, the anterior con- cavity of this region being almost entirely owing to the shape of the ver- tebral bodies. The intervertebral discs constitute about one-fourth of the length of the spinal column, exclusive of the first two vertebrae; but this amount is not equally distributed between the various bones, the cervical and lumbar portions having, in propor- tion to their length, a much greater amount than the thoracic region, with the result that these parts possess greater pliancy and freedom of move- ment. The intervertebral discs are adherent, by their surfaces, to thm layers of hyaline cartilage which cover the upper and imder sm-faces of the bodies of the vertebrae, and in which, in early life, the epiphysial plates develop; by their cu'cumferences they are closely connected in front to the anterior, and behind to the posterior, common ligaments. In the thoracic region they are joined laterally, by means of the interarticular ligaments, to the heads of those ribs which articulate with two vertebra?: they consequently form parts of the articular cavities in which the heads of these ribs are received. Structure of the Intervertebral Discs.—Each is composed, at its circumference, of laminaj of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage, forming the annulus Jibrosus ; and. at its centre, of a soft, pidpy, highly elastic substance, of a yellowish colour, winch rises up considerablv above the surrounding level when the disc is diAaded horizontally. This pulpy substance {nucleus pulposus), especially well developed in the lumbar region, is the remains of the notocliord. The lamiuaj are arranged concentrically ; the outern^ost consist of ordinary fibrous tissue, the others ot white fibro-cartilage. The laminaj are not quite vertical in their direction, those near the circumference being curved outwards and closely approximated ; while those nearest the centre curve in the opposite direction, and are somewhat more widely separated. The fibres of which each lamina is composed arc directed, tor the most part, obliquely from above downwards, the fibres of adjacent^ amma- passing in opposite directions and varying in every layer: so that the fibres ol one layer are directed across those of another, like the limbs of the letter A. inis