417 WRIST-JOINT The Synovial Membrane (fig. 459) lines the mnersur aces o the ligaments above drscribed, extending from the lower end of the radius and intcrarticular ilbro cartUage above to the articular surfaces of the cai-pal bones below. It is loose and lax, and presents numerous folds, especially behind. The wrist- oint is covered in front by the Flexor, and behind by the Extensor r eudons ; it is also in relation with the radial and ulnar arteries. The 'Arteries supplying the joint are the nterior and posterior carpal branches of the Fig. 468.—Longitudinal section of the right forearm, hand, and third finger, viewed from the (After Braune.) ulnar aspect. radial and uhiar, the anterior and posterior interosseous, and some ascending branches from the deep palmar arch. The Nerves are derived from the ulnar and posterior interosseous. Movements.—The movements permitted in this joint are flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, and circumduction. They will be studied with those of the carpus, with which they are combined. Surface Form.—On the front of the wist three transverse furrows may be generaOy seen: the uppermost is on a level with the styloid process of the ulna ; the middle corresponds fairly acciu-ately with the -nTist-jomt ; and the lowest indicates the position of the mid-carpal articulation. Applied Anatomij.—The wrist-joint is rarely dislocated, its strength depending mamly upon the numerous strong tendons which surround the articulation. Its security is further provided for liy the number of smaU bones of which the carpus is made up, and which are united by very strong ligaments. The shght movements which take pface between the several bones serve to break the jars that result from falls or blows on the hand. Dislocation backwards, which is the more common, simulates to a considerable extent CoUes's fracture of the radius, and is liable to be mistaken for it. The differential diagnosis can be easily made by observing the relative positions of the styloid processes of the radius and the ulna. In the natiual condition the styloid process of the radius is on a lower level, i.e. nearer the ground, when the arm hangs by the side, than that of the ulna, and this relationship is not disturbed in dis- location. In CoUes's fracture, on the other hand, the styloid process of the radius is on the same, or even a higher level than that of the ulna. The wrist-joint is occasionally the seat of acute synovitis. When the synovial sac is distended with fluid, the swelling is greatest on the dorsal aspect of the wrist, showing a general fulness, with some bulging between the tendons. The in- flammation Ls prone to extend to the intercarpal joints and to attack also the sheaths of the tendons in the neighbourhood. Chronic in- flammation of the wrist is generally tuberculous, and often leads to similar disease in the synovial sheaths of adjacent tendons and of the intercarpal joints. The disease, therefore, when progressive, frequently leads to caries of the carpal bones, and the result is often an ankylosis. A free incision of the joint by a straight posterior cut leads, in some cases, to most satisfactory results. VII. CARPAL ARTICULATIONS (ARTICULATIONES INTERCARPE.ai;) These articulations may be subdivided into tlrree sets : 1. The Articulations of the First Row of Carpal Bones. 2. The Articulations of the Second Row of Carpal Bones. 3. The Articulations of the Two Rows with each other. E E