SUPRAHYOID REGION 479 The Genio-hyoid (m. geniohyoideus) is a narrow slender muscle, situated .abovfthe hiner border of the preceding. It arises from the mfenor gemal tubei'le on the inner side of the symphysis monti and passes downwards and backwards, to be inserted into the anterior surface of the body of the i-hvoid bone This muscle lies in close contact with its fellow of the opposite .side and increases slightly in breadth as it descends ■ Nerves—The Mylo-hyoid and anterior belly of the Digastric are supplied by tthe mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental; the Stylo-hyoid and posterior belly oof the Digastric, by the facial; the Genio-hyoid, by the hypoglossal Actions.—These muscles perform two very important actions. They raise the thyoid bone, and with it the base of the tongue, during the act of deglutition ; Fig. 492.—Muscles of the tongue. Left side. I or, when the hyoid bone is fixed by its depressors and those of the larynx, I they depress the mandible. During the first act of deglutition, when the mass 1 of food is being driven from the mouth into the pharynx, the hyoid bone and • with it the tongue, is carried upwards and forwards by the anterior belly of the Digastric, the Mylo-hyoid, and Genio-hyoid muscles. In the second act, when • the mass is passing through the pharynx, the direct elevation of the hyoid bone takes place by the combined action of all the muscles ; and after the food lias passed, the hyoid bone is carried upwards and backwards by the posterior belly of the Digastric and the Stylo-hyoid, which assist in preventing the return of the food into the mouth. IV. Lingual Region (fig. 492) Genio-hyo-glossus. Hyo-glossus. Chondi'o-glossus. Stylo-glossus. Palato-glossus.* The Genio-hyo-glossus (m. genioglossus) has received its name from its triple attachment to the mandible, hyoid bone, and tongue, but its * The Palato-glossus, or Constrictor istlimi fauciiim, although one of the muscles of the tongue, serving to draw its base upwards during the act of deglutition, is more closely associated with the soft palate, both in situation and function ; it will, consequently, be described with the muscles of that structure (p. 485).