SPLAl^CHNOLOGY 1222 an oxtornal longitudinal and an internal circular layer of non-striped muscular fibres continuous with those of the uterus. The inltrmil or mucous coat is continuous with the mucous lining of the uterus, and. at the free extremity of the tube, with the peritoneum It IS thrown into longitudinal folds, which in the outer, larger part of the tube, or amijulla are mucli more extensive than in the narrow canal of the isthmus. The lining eijithelium IS columnar and ciliated. This form of epithelium is also found on the inner surface of the timbrife ; while on the outer or .serous surfaces of these proce.sses the epithelium gradually merges into the endothelium of the peritoneum. Applied Analomy.—Tho majority of the diseases of the Fallopian tube are due to infec- tions which have spread by way of the vagina and uterus, and the disease often does not stop at the Fallopian tube, but ]msses on to the peritoneum, giving rise to acute general peritonitis, or a localised condition termed perimetrilis that may be acute or chronic Perimetritis is often followed by various ]minful conditions, which are due to the peritoneal adliesions resulting from the inflammation of the serous membrane, and which ijersist throughout life. Tubal inflammation (salpingilis) is u.sually the result of an infection either by the gonococcus or by septic orgam.sms implanted at the time of labom- or abortion In many cases the fimbriated ends of the tubes become clo.sed by adhesions, pus collects in the tubes, and a pyosalpinx results. Fertihsation of the ovum has been stated (page 83) to occur in the tube, and the fertilised o\Tim is then normally jsassed on into the uterus ; the ovum, however, mav segment whilst it is still in the Fallopian tube, giving rise to the commonest variety of ectopic gestation. In such cases the amnion and chorion are formed, but a true decidua is never present; and the gestarion usually terminates by extrusion of the ovum through the abdominal ostium, although it is not uncommon for the tube to ruptm e into the peritoneal cavity, this being accompanied by severe hajmorrhage, and needing sm-gical interference. The Uterus (figs. 1010, 1013, 1014) The uterus, or womb, is a hollow, thick-walled, muscular organ situated deeplj^ in the pelvic cavity between the bladder and rectum. Into its upper part the Fallopian tubes open, one on either side, wliile below, its cavity communicates with that of the vagina. When the ova are discharged from Fig. 1013.—Female pelvis and its contents, seen from above and in fi'ont. the ovaries they are carried to tlie uterine cavity tin-ough tlie Fallopian lubes. If an ovum be fertilised it imbeds itself in the uterine wall and is normally retained in the uterus until ])re-nalal developmont is completed, the uterus undergoing changes in size and structure to accommodate itself to the needs of the growing embryo (see page 97). After parturition tlie uterus returns