CLAVICLE 289 arm is lying quietly by the side, though in well-developed subjects it may incline a little upwards at its outer end. Its direction, however, varies with the varying movements of the shoulder-joint. The clavicle inclines backwards, so that its outer or acromial extremity is on a plane posterior to its sternal end." This causes the shoulder to be thrown backwards awcay from the thorax. Applied Anatoviy.—The clavicle is very frequently fi-actured. This is duo to the fact that it is much exposed to violence, and is the only bony connection between the upper limb and the trunk, actmg as a buttress to keep the point of the shoulder away from the thorax. It is, moreover, slender, and is very superficial. It may be broken by direct or indirect violence. The most common cause is, however, indirect violence, as the result of force applied to the hand or shoulder, and the bone then gives way at the junction of its outer with its inner two-thirds, that is to say, at the junction of the two curves, for this is its weakest part. The fracture is generally oblique, and the displacement of the outer fragment is downwards, forwards, and inward^. The deformity is mainly due to the weight of the arm acting upon the fragment when the buttress-like action of the bone is gone, assisted by the muscles which pass from the thorax to the upper extremity. The mner fragment, as a rule, is little displaced. Beneath the bone the main vessels of the upper limb and the great nerve-cords of the brachial plexus lie on the first rib and are liable to be wounded in fracture, especially in fracture from direct violence, when the force of the blow drives the broken ends inwards. Fortunately the Subclavius intervenes between these structures and the clavicle, and often protects them from injury. The clavicle is occasionally the seat of sarcomatous tumours, rendering the operation of excision of the entire bone necessary. This is an operation of considerable difficulty and danger. It is best performed by exposing the bone freely, disarticulating at the acromial end, and turning it inwards. The removal of the outer part is comparatively easy, but resection of the inner part is fraught wth difficulty, the main danger being the risk of wounding the great veins which are in relation %vith its under surface. Great deformity of the clavicle may be met with m rickets, the natural curvatures of the bone being exaggerated imtil it takes on an S-shape. The Scapula The Scapula or shoulder-blade forms the posterior part of the shoulder gu-dle. It IS a flat, triangular bone, and presents for examination two surfaces three borders, and three angles. The ventral surface (facies costalis) (fig. 350) presents a broad concavity the tossa subscapularis. The inner two-thirds of the fossa are marked by several oblique ridges, which are directed outwards and upwards ; the outer third IS smooth. The obUque ridges give attachment to the tendinous inter- sections, and the surfaces between them to the fleshy fibres, of the Subscapularis ihe outer third of tlie fossa is covered by the fibres of this muscle. The sub- scapular fossa is separated from the internal border by smooth triangular areas at the superior and inferior angles, and in the interval between these by a narrow ridge winch is often deficient. These triangular areas and the intervening ridge attord attachment to the Serratus magnus. The subscapular fossa presents a ti;ansverse depression at its upper part, where the bone appears to be bent on itselt along a fine at right angles to and passing through the centre of the glenoid cavity, forming a considerable angle, called the subscapular angle ■ this gives greater strength to the body of the bone by its arched form, ^vhi\e the sunmiit of the arch serves to support the spine and acromion process. ihe dorsal surface (facies dorsalis) (fig. .351) is arched from above down- wards, and is alternately concave and convex from side to side. It is subdivided unequally into two parts by the spine ; the portion above the spine is called ^tiemipraspmousjossa, and that below it the infraspinous fossa. ihe supraspinous fossa (fossa supraspinata), the smaUer of the two is concave, smooth, and broader at the vertebral than at the humeral extremity, attords attachment by its inner two-thirds to the Supraspinatus. ihe infraspinous fossa (fossa infraspinata) is mucli larger than the pre- ceaing ; towards its vertebral margin a shallow concavity is seen at its upper part. Its centre presents a prominent convexity, while near the axillary Doraer is a deep groove «'hich runs from the upper towards the lower part, xne inner two-thirds of the fossa affords attachment to the Infraspinatus • the outer third is covered by this muscle. riflii surface is marked near tlie axillary border by an elevated hnnWn'^i^''. ^"-'^"^ P^i'*^ of the glenoid cavity, downwards and oacKwards to the vertebral border, about an inch above the inferior angle V