OSTEOLOGY 282 and, on the other hand, strongly marked ridges may be associated with small air-sinuses. They commence on either side of the glabella, and here present a rounded form, which gradually fades away at their outer ends. 12. The nasal bones form the prominence of the nose. They vary much in size and shape, and to them is due the varieties in the contour of this organ and mucli of the character of the face. 13. The lower margin of the orbit, formed by the maxilla and malar bone, can be felt throughout its entire length. It is continuous internally with the frontal process of the maxilla, and at their point of junction is a little tubercle, which serves as a guide to the position of the lachrymal sac, which is situated above and behind it. 14. The outline of the mandible can be felt throughout its entire length. Just in front of the tragus of the external ear, and below the zygomatic arch, the condyle can be made out. When the mouth is opened, this prominence of bone advances out of the glenoid fossa on to the eminentia articularis, and recedes when the mouth is closed. From the condyle the posterior border of the ramus can be followed do^vn to the angle, and from the angle to the sjnnphysis menti the lower rounded border of the body of the bone is plainly to be felt. At the point of junction of the two halves of the bone is a well-marked triangular eminence, the mental process, which forms the prominence of the chin. Applied Anatomy.—Occasionally a protrusion of the brain or its membranes may take place through one of the sutures, owing to non-closure. When the protrusion con- sists of membranes only, and is fiUed with cerebro-spinal fluid, it is called a meningocele ; when it consists of brain as well as membranes, it is termed an encephalocele. These malformations are usually found in the middle line, and most frequently at the back of the head, the protrusion taking place between the centres of ossification of the tabular portion of the occipital bone (see page 217). They generally occur through the upper part of the vertical fissure, which is the last to ossify, but not uncommonly through the lower part, when the foramen magnum may be incomplete. More rarely these protrusions are met with in other situations, as in the sagittal, lambdoid, and other sutures, or through abnormal gaps and deficiencies at the sides or base of the skull. The chief function of the skull is to protect the brain from any form of violence to which it may be subjected. We find, therefore, that those portions of the skuU which are most exposed to external violence are thicker than those which are shielded from injury by overlying muscles. Thus, the skull-cap is thick and dense, whereas the squamous portion of the temporal bone, being protected by the Temporal muscle, and the inferior occipital fossEB, being shielded by the muscles at the back of the neck, are thin and fragile. Fracture of the skull is further prevented by its elasticity, its rounded shape, and its construction of a number of secondary elastic arches, each made up of a single bone. The manner in which vibrations are transmitted through the bones of the skull is also of importance as regards its protective mechanism, at all events as far as the base is concerned. In the vault, the bones being of a fairly equal thickness and density, vibrations are transmitted in a uniform manner in aU directions, but in the base, owing to the varying thickness and density of the bones, this is not so ; and therefore m this situation there are special buttresses which serve to carry the vibrations in certain definite directions. At the front of the skull, on either side, is the ridge which separates the anterior froin the middle fossa of the base ; and behind, the ridge or buttress which separates the middle from the posterior fossa ; and if any violence is applied to the vault, the vibrations would be carried along these buttresses to the sella turcica, where they meet. This part has been termed the ' centre of resistance,' and here there is a special protective mechanism to guard the brain. The subarachnoid space is dilated, and the increased quantity of cerebro-spinal fluid acts as a water-cushion to shield the bram from injury. In like manner, when violence is applied to the base of the skull, as in falls upon the feet, the vibrations are carried backwards through the occipital crest, and forwards through the basilar process and body of the sphenoid to the vault of the skull. Fractures of the skull are best considered as affecting either the vaiilt or the base. Fractures of the vault may, and generally do, involve the whole thickness of the bone ; but sometimes the inner table only may be fractured, and portions of it driven inwards. As a rule, in fractures of the skull, the inner table is more splmtered and comminuted than the outer, and this is due to several causes. It is thinner and more brittle ; the force of the violence as it passes inwards becomes broken up. and is more diffused by the time it reaches the inner table ; the bone bemg in the form of an arch bends as a whole and spreads out, and thus presses the particles together on the convex surface of the arch, i.e. the outer table, and forces them asunder on the concave surface or inner table ; and, lastly, there is nothmg firm under the inner table to support it and oppose the force. Fractures of the vault may be sunple fissures, or may be starred and commi- nuted, and the fragments may be depressed or elevated. Cases of fracture with elevation of the fractured portion are uncommon, and can only be produced by direct J^ina- comminuted fracture, a portion of the skull is broken into several pieces, the lines ot fracture radiating from a centre where the chief impact of the blow \yas felt; it tne fracture is also depressed, a fissure circumscribes the radiating lines, enclosmg a portion of the skull. If this area is circular it is termed a ' pond ' fracture, and would in all probability have been caused by a round instrument, as a life preserver or hammer ; n