SYNDESMOLOGY 400 The Anterior Sterno-clavicular Ligament (Ug. steinoclaviculare ant.) is a broad band of fibres, \\hich covers the anterior surface of the articula- tion ; it is attached above to the upper and front part of the inner extremity of the clavicle, and, passing obliquely downwards and in^^•ards, is attached below to the front of the upper part of the manubrium stern!. This ligament is covered by tlie sternal portion of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid and the integu- ment ; behind, it is in relation with the capsule, the interarticular fibro- cartilage and the two synovial membranes. The Posterior Sterno-clavicular Ligament (hg. sternoclaviculare post.) is a similar band of fibres, which covers the posterior surface of the articula- tion ; it is attached above to the upper and back part of the mner extremity of the clavicle, and, passing obliquely downwards and inwards, is attached below to the back of the upper part of the manubrium sterni. It is in relation, in front, with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and synovial membranes ; behind, with tlie Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid. The Interclavicular Ligament (Hg. interclaviculare) is a flattened band, which varies considerably in form and size in different individuals ; it passes in a curved direction from the upper part of the inner extremity of one cla\ncle to that of the other, and is also attached to the upper margin of the sternum. It is in relation, in front, with the integument; behind, with the Sterno- thyi'oid muscles. ¥l6. 449.—Sterno-clavicular articulation. Anterior view. The Costo-clavicular or Rhomboid Ligament (hg. costoclaviculare) is short, flat, strong, and rhomboid in form. Attached below to the upper and inner part of the cartUage of the first rib, it ascends obliquely backwards and outwards, and is attached above to the rhomboid depression on tlie under surface of the clavicle. It is m relation, in front, with the tendon of origin of the Subclavius ; behind, M ith the subclavian vem. «... The Interarticular Fibro-cartilage (discus articularis) is a flat and nearly circular disc, interposed between the articulating surfaces of the steinum and clavicle. It is attached, above, to the upper and posterior border of the articular surface of the clavicle ; below, to the cartflage of tbe first rib, near its junction with the sternum ; and by its circumference to « e mtei- clavicular and anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular ligaments It is tlucker at the circumference, especiaUy its upper and back part, than at its centre S divides the joint into two cavities, each of which is furnished with a synovial Of'the'two Synovial Membranes found in this articulation the o^t^r is reflected from t^ie sternal end of the clavicle, over the adjacent surface of L fibrteaSge, and over the cartilage of the first rib ; t - nincn^ is attached to the margin of the articular surface of the sternum and clothes the adjacent surface of the fibro-cartilage ; the latter is the larger of the two.