648 ANGIOLOGY From this last anastomosis a branch passes to the nasal duct, ramifying in its mucous membrane, as far as the inferior meatus. The frontal artery (a. frontalis), one of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic, leaves the orbit at its imier angle with the supra-trochlear nerve, and, ascending on the forehead, supplies the integument, muscles, and pericranium, anastomosing with the supra-orbital artery, and with the artery of the opposite side. The nasal artery (a. dorsalis nasi), the other terminal branch of the ophthalmic, emerges from the orbit above the tendo oculi, and, after giving a branch to the upper part of tlie lachrymal sac, divides into two branches, one of which crosses the root of the nose, and anastomoses with the angular artery ; the other runs along the dorsum of the nose, supplies its outer surface, and anastomoses •with, the artery of the opposite side, and with the lateral nasal branch of the facial. The central artery of the retina (a. centralis retinae) is the first and one of the smallest branches of the ophthalmic artery. It runs for a short distance within the dural sheath of the nerve, but about half an inch behind the eyeball it pierces the optic nerve obUquely, and runs forward in the centre of its substance, and enters the globe of the eye through the porus opticus. Its mode of distribution -will be described in the account of the anatomy of the eye. The ciliary arteries are divisible into three groups, the long and short posterior, and the anterior. The short posterior ciliary arteries (aa. ciliares posteriores breves), from six to twelve in number, arise from the ophthalmic, or some of its branches ; they pass forwards aroruid the optic nerve to the posterior part of the eyeball, pierce the sclera around the entrance of the nerve, and supply the choroid coat and ciUary processes. The long posterior ciliary arteries (aa. cihares posteriores longse), two in number, pierce the posterior part of the sclera at some little distance from the optic nerve, and run forwards, along each side of the eyeball, between the sclera and choroid, to the eiUarj' muscle, where they divide into two branches ; these form an arterial circle, the circulits iridis major, around the circumference of the nis, from which numerous converging branches run inwards, in the substance of the ii'is, to its free margin, where they form a second arterial circle, the circulus iridis minor. The anterior ciliary arteries (aa. cihares anteriores) are derived from the muscular branches ; they run to the front of the eyeball in company with the tendons of the Recti, form a vascular zone beneath the conjunctiva, and then pierce the sclera a short distance from the cornea and terminate in the circulus major iridis. ■ t ■ The muscular branches (rami musculares), two in number, superior and inferior, frequently spring from a common trunk. The superior, the smaller, often wanting, suppUes the Levator palpebra?, Superior rectus, and Superior obUque. The inferior, more constantly present, passes forwards between the optic nerve and Inferior rectus, and is distributed to the External, Internal, and Inferior recti, and the Inferior obUque. This vessel gives off most of the anterior cihary arteries. Additional muscular branches are given off from the lachrymal and supra-orbital branches, or from the trunk of the ophthalmic. 8. The anterior cerebral artery (a. cerebri anterior) (fig. 582) arises from the internal carotid, at the inner extremity of the fissure of Syhaus. It passes forwards and inwards across the anterior perforated space, above the optic nerve, to the corn- mencement of the great longitudinal fissure. Here it comes into close relationship with the artery of the opposite side, and the two vessels are connected by a short trunk, the anterior communicating artery (a. communicans anterior). From this point, the two vessels run side by side in the longitudinal fissure, curve round the genu, and turning backwards continue along the upper surface of the corpus callosum to its posterior part, where they terminate by anastomosmg vnth the posterior cerebral arteries. „ , r „ • i i In its course the anterior cerebral artery gives o£E the following brandies : Antero-median ganglionic. Anterior internal frontal. Inferior internal frontal. Middle internal frontal. Posterior internal frontal. The antero-median ganglionic branches are a group of small arteries which arise at the commencement of the anterior cerebral artery ; they pierce the anterior perforated space and lamina terminalis, and supply the rostrum of the corpus callosum, the septum pellucidum, andthc head of the caudate nucleus. 'Iheinjerior internal frontal branches, two or three in number, are distributed to the orbital surlace of the frontal lobe, where they supply the olfactory lobe, gyrus rectus, and internal orbital convolution. The anterior internal frontal branches supply a part oi ne marginal convolution, and send branches over the edge of the hemisphere to tht superior and middle frontal convolutions and upper part of the ascending irontal convolution. The middle internal frontal branches supply the corpus callosum,