631 LINGUAL ARTERY The ranine (a. profunda linguae) is the terminal portion of tlie lingual artery ; it pursues a tortuous course and runs along the under surface of the tongue, below the Inferior lingualis, and above the mucous membrane ; it lies on th6 outer side of the Genio-hyo-glossus, accompanied by the lingual nerve. On arriving at the tip of the tongue, it has been said to anastomose with the artery of the opposite side ; but this is denied by Hyrtl. In the mouth, these vessels are placed one on either side of the frEenulum. Applied ATiatomy.—The lingual artery may bo divided near its origin in cases of cut throat, a complication that not infrequently happens in wounds of this class ; or severe hemorrhage, which cannot be restramed by ordinary means, may ensue from a wound, or deep ulcer, of the tongue. In the former case, the primary wound may be enlarged if necessary, and the bleeding vessel secured. In the latter case, it has been suggested that the lingual artery should be tied near its origin. Ligature of the Imgual artery has been also occasionally practised, as a palhative measure, in cases of cancer of the tongue, in order to check the progi-ess of the disease by starving the growth, and it is sometimes tied as a preliminary measure to removal of the tongue. The operation is a difficult one on account of the depth of the artery, the number of important parts by which it is surroimded, the loose and yielding nature of the parts upon which it is supported, a,nd its occasional irregularity of origin. An incision is to be made in a curved direction from a finger's breadth external to the symphysis of the jaw downwards to the eornu of the hyoid bone, and then upwards to near the angle of the jaw. Care must be taken not to caiTy this incision too far backwards, for fear of endangering the facial vein. In the first incision the skin, superficial fascia, and Platysmawill be divided, and the deep fascia exposed. This is then to be incised and the submaxillary gland exposed and pulled upwards by retractors. A triangiilar space is now seen, bounded mternally by the posterior border of the BIylo-hyoid muscle ; below and externally, by the tendon of the Digastric ; and above, by the hypoglossal nerve. The floor of the space is formed by the Hyo-glossus muscle, beneath which the artery Ues. The parts are to be cb-awn forwards by a blunt hook inserted beneath the tendon of the Digastric muscle, and the fibres of the Hyo- glossus cut through horizontally just above the Digastric. The vessel will then be exposed ; and in passing the aneurysm needle, care must be taken not to open the pharynx. The hypoglossal nerve must also be avoided. Troublesome hfemorrhage may occur in the division of the frtenulum lingusein children, if the ranine arteries, which lie one on either side of it, be wounded. The operation should always be performed with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, and only the mucous membrane divided by a very superficial cut. which cannot endanger any vessel. Any further liberation of the tongue which may be necessary can be effected by tearing. 3. The facial or external maxillary artery (a. maxillaris externa) (fig. 576) arises a little above the Ungual, and passes obliquely upwards, beneath the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and frequently beneath the hypoglossal nerve, and runs forwards under cover of the body of the mandible, lodged in a groove on the posterior surface of the submaxillary gland ; tliis may be called the cervical part of the artery. It then curves upwards over the body of the mandible at the antero-inferior angle of the Masseter muscle ; passes forwards and upwards across the cheek to the angle of the mouth, then upwards along the side of the nose, and terminates at the inner canthus of the eye, under the name of the angular artery. This vessel, both in the neck and on the face, is remarkably tortuous : in the former situation, to accommodate itself to the movements of the pharynx in degluti- tion ; and in the latter, to the movements of the mandible, lips, and cheeks. Relations.—In the neck, its origin is superficial, being covered by the integu- ment, Platysma, and fascia ; it then passes beneath the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and part of the submaxillary gland. It lies upon the Middle constrictor of the pharynx, and is separated from the Stylo-glossus and Hyo-glossus by a portion of the submaxillary gland. On the face, where it passes over the body of the mandible, it is comparatively superficial, lying immediately beneath the Platysma. In this situation its pulsation may be distinctly felt, and compression of the vessel against the bone can be effectually made. In its course over the face, it is covered by the integument, the fat of the cheek, and, near the angle of the mouth, by the Platysma, Risorius, and Zygomatici muscles. It rests on the Buccinator, the Levator anguli oris, and the Levator labii superioris (sometimes piercing or passing imder this last muscle). The facial vein hes to the outer side of the artery, and takes a more direct course across the face, where it is separated from the artery by a considerable interval. In the neck it lies superficial to the