733 VEINS OP THE NECK and the integument; it crosses the superficial cervical nerve, and its upper lialf runs parallel with the great auricular nerve. The external jugular vein varies in size, bearing an inverse proportion to the other veins of the neck ; it is occasionally double. It is provided with two pairs of valves, the lower pair being placed at its entrance into the subclavian vein, the upjDer pair in most cases about an inch and a half above the clavicle. The portion of vein between the two sets of valves is often dilated, and is termed the sinus. These valves do not prevent the regurgitation of the blood, or the passage of injection fi-om below upwards. Applied Anatomy.—Venesection used formerly to be performed on the external jugular vein, but is now probably never resorted to. The anatomical point to bo remembered in performing this operation is to cut across the fiisres of the Platysma in opening the vein, so that by theu- contraction they will expose the orifice in the vein and so allow the flow of blood. Tributaries.—This vein receives the occipital occasionally, the posterior external jugular, and, near its termination, the transverse cervical, suprascapular, and anterior jugular veins ; in the substance of the parotid, a large branch of commiiuication from the internal jugular joins it. The posterior external jugular vein commences in the occipital region and returns the blood from the integument and superficial muscles in the upper and back- part of the neck, lying between the Splenius and Trapezius muscles. It runs down the back part of the neck, and opens into the external jugular just below the middle of its course. The anterior jugular vein (v. jugularis anterior) commences near the hyoid bone from the confluence of several superficial veins from the submaxillary reoion. It descends between the median hne and the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, and, at the lower part of the neck, passes beneath that muscle to open into the termination of the external jugidar, or, in some instances, into the subclavian vein (figs. 626, 627). It varies considerably in size, bearing usually an inverse pro- portion to the external jugular ; most frequently there are two'anterior jugulars, a right and left; but sometimes only one. Its tributaries are some laryngeal veins, and occasionally a small thyroid vein. Just above the sternum, the two anterior jugular veins communicate by a transverse trunk, which receives tributaries from the inferior thyi'oid veins ; each also communicates with the internal juo-ular. There are no valves m this vein. " The internal jugular vein (v. jugularis interna) collects the blood from the interior of the cranium, fi-om the superficial parts of the face, and from the neck. It is directly continuous with the lateral sinus, and commences in'the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen, at the base of the skull (fig. 636). At Its origin it is somewhat dilated, and this dilatation is called the sinus, or 6?J6 (bulbus vense jugularis superior). It runs down the side of the neck in a vertical direction, lying at first on the outer side of the internal carotid artery, and then on the outer side of the common carotid, and at the root of the neck umtes with the subclavian vein to form the innominate vein. At its commence- ment It Ues upon the Rectus capitis lateralis, behind the internal carotid arterv and the nerves passing through tlie jugular foramen ; lower down, the vein and artery he upon the same plane, the glosso-pharvngeal and hypot^lossal nerves passing forwards between them ; the pneumogastric descends between and behmd them in the same sheath, and the spinal accessory runs obliquely outwards, behind or in front of the vein. At the root of the neck the ri'rht mternal jugular vein is placed at a little distance from the common carotid aitery, and crosses the first part of the subclavian artery, M-hile the left internal jugular vem usually overlaps the common carotid artery. The left vein is nsually smaller than the right, and each contains a pair of valves, which are placed about_an inch above the termination of the vessel. Tributaries.—The vem receives in its course the inferior petrosal sinus, rue common facial, lingual, pharyngeal, superior and middle thvi'oid veins, and sometimes the occipital. At its point of junction with the common facial vein m'^^™^** gi'eatly increased in size. tl,„ petrosal sinus (sinus petrosus inferior) leaves the skull through «ie anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and joins the vein near its commencement.