1143 THE SMALL INTESTINE large intestine. The jejunum and ileum are attached to tlie posterior abdominal waU bv an extensive fold of peritoneum, the mesentery, which allows the freest motion so that each coil can accommodate itself to changes in form and position. The mesentery is fan-shaped ; its posterior border or root about six inches in length, is attached to the posterior abdominal waU from the lett side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra to the right ihac fossa, crossing successively the third part of the duodenum, the aorta the inferior vena cava, the ureter, and right Psoas muscle (fig. 927). Its breadth betA^-een its vertebral and intestinal borders is about eight inches, and is greater in the middle than at its upper and lower extremities. According to Lockwood it tends to increase in breadth as age advances. Between the two layers ot which it is composed are contained blood-vessels, nerves, lacteals, and lymphatic glands, together \nth a variable amount of fat. MeckeUs diverticulum.—This consists of a pouch which projects from the lower part of the ileum in about 2 per cent, of subjects. Its average position is about three feet above the ileo-ciEcal valve, and its average length about two inches. Its calibre is generally similar to that of the ileum, and its blind extremity may be free or may be connected mth the abdominal wall or with some other portion of the intestine by a fibrous band. It represents the remains of the proximal part of the vitelline or omphalo-uiesenteric duct the duct of communication between the yolk sac and the alimentary canal in early foetal "structure.—Tlie wall of the small intestine is composed of four coats : serous, muscular, areolar, and mucous. . , The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum. The first or ascending portion ot the duodenum is almost completely siurounded by this membrane near its pyloric end, but is only covered in front at the other extremity ; the second or descending portion is covered by it in front, except where it is carried off by the transverse colon ; and the third or transverse portion lies behind the peritoneum, which passes over it, without being closely incorporated with the other coats of this part of the intestine, and is separated from it in and near the middle line by the superior mesenteric vessels. The remaimng portion of the small intestine is surrounded by the peritoneum, excepting along its attached or mesenteric border ; here a space is left for the vessels and nerves to pass to the gut. The muscular coal consists of two layers of fibres, an external, longitudinal, and an internal, chcular layer. The longiludinal fibres are thinly scattered over the sm-face of the intestine, and are more distinct along its free border. The circular fibres form a thick, uniform layer, and are composed of plain muscle-cells of considerable length. The muscular coat is thicker at the upper than at the lower part of the small intestine. The areolar or submucous coat connects together the mucous and muscular layers. It consists of loose, filamentous areolar tissue containing blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. Tlie mucous membrane is thick and highly vascular at the upper part of the small intestine, but somewhat paler and thinner below. It consists of the following structures: next the areolar or submucous coat is a layer of longitudinal unstriped muscular fibres, the muscularis mucosa ; internal to this is a quantity of retiform tissue, enclosing in its meshes lymph-corpuscles, and in which the blood-vessels and nerves ramify; lastly, a basement-membrane, supporting a single layer of epithelial cells, which throughout the intestines are columnar in character. Tlie cells are granular in appearance, and each possesses a clear oval nucleus. At thek superficial or unattached ends they present a distinct layer of highly refractmg material, marked by vertical strise (the striated border). The mucous membrane presents for exammation the following structures, contained within it or belonging to it: Valvulse conniventes. i Duodenal glands. VilU. Glands ] Solitary glands. Sunple follicles, [ Peyer's or agmmated glands. The valvulse conniventes or valves of Kerkring (plicae cu'culares) are large folds or valvular flaps projecting into the lumen of the ho\\e\. They are composed of reduplications or folds of the mucous membrane, the two layers of the fold being bound together by sub- raucous tissue ; unlike the folds in the stomach, they are permanent, and are not obliterated when the intestine is distended. The majority extend transversely across the cylinder of the intestine for about one-half or two-thuds of its circumference, but some form complete circles, and others have a spiral direction ; the latter usually extend a little more than once round the bowel, but occasionally two or three times. The larger folds are about one-thud of an inch in depth at their broadest part; but the greater number are of smaller size. The larger and smaller folds alternate with each other. They are not found at the commencement of the duodenum, but begin to appear about one or two inches beyond the pylorus. In the lower part of the descending portion, below the point where the bile and pancreatic