THE ANIMAL CELL 7 the achromatic filaments, these being specially distinct m certain cells (e.g. prickle- cells) The nucleus has a distinct nuclear membrane and a nucleolus. Li the reproduction of cells by direct division the process is one either of segmentation or of gemmation. In reproduction by segmentation or fission, the nucleus becomes constricted in its centre, assuming an hour-glass shape, and then divides into two. This is followed by a cleavage or division of the whole protoplasmic mass of the cell; and thus two daughter ceUs are formed, each containin'^ a nucleus. These daughter cells are at first smaller than the original mother cell; but they grow, and the process may be repeated m them so that multipUcation may take place rapidly. In reproduction by gemmation, a budding- ofl" or separation of a portion of the nucleus and parent cell takes place, and, this becoming separated, forms a new organism. , ^ , The cell-wall is merely the external layer of the protoplasm, firmer than the rest of the cell, and often thickened by the deposit in it of certain chemical substances. It forms a transparent, finely striated membrane, in which are a number of apertures. Through these openings protoplasmic processes can extend from cell to cell. They are often termed intercellular bridges. THE NUTRITIVE FLUIDS The circulating fluids of the body, which subserve its nutrition, are tlie blood and the lymph. Blood The blood is an opaque, rather viscid fluid, of a bright red or scarlet colour when it flows from the arteries, of a dark red or purple colour when it flows from the veins. It is salt to the taste, and has a peculiar faint odour and an alkahne reaction. Its specific gravity is about 1-06, and its temperature is generally about 99° F., though va'rying slightly in diflterent parts of the body. General compositioii of the blood.—Blood consists of a faintly yellow flmd, the flasma or liquor sanguinis, in which are suspended numerous minute particles, the blood corpuscles, the majority of which are coloured and give to the blood its red tint. If a drop of blood be placed in a thin layer on a glass sUde and examined mider the microscope, a number of these corpuscles will be seen floating in the clear fluid plasma. The blood corpuscles are chiefly of two kinds : (1) coloured corpuscles or (srythrocytes, (2) colourless corpuscles or leucocytes. A third variety, the blood platelets!^ is of subsidiary importance. 1. Coloured or red corpuscles [erythrocytes), when examined under the micro- scope, are seen to be circular discs, biconcave in profile. The disc has no nucleus, but, in consequence of its biconcave shape, presents, according to the altera- tions of focus under an ordinary high power, a central part, sometimes bright, sometimes dark, which has the appearance of a nucleus (fig. 3, a). It is to the aggregation of the red corpuscles that the blood owes its red hue, although when examined by transmitted fight their colour appears to be only a faint reddisli- yellow. The corpuscles vary slightly in size even in the same drop of blood, but the average diameter of each is "about ^^V^ of an inch, and the thickness about 1 ^i^ji of an inch, nearly one quarter of the diameter. Besides these there are found certain smaller corpuscles of about one-half or one-tliird of the size just indicated ; these are termed microcytes, and are very scarce in normal blood; in diseased conditions (e.g. aniemia), however, they are more numerous. Ihe uuraber of red corpuscles in the blood is enormous; between 4,000,000 and 5,000,000 are contained in a cubic millimetre. Power states that the red corpuscles of an adult would present an aggregate surface of about 3,000 square yards. Each corpuscle consists of a coloui-less elastic spongework or stroma, condensed at the periphery to form an investing membrane; uniformly diffused throughout the stroma are the coloured fluid contents. The stroma is composed mainly of nucleo-frotem and of the fatty substances, lecithin and cholesterin, while the coloured material consists chiefly of the respiratory protein, hccmoylobin, which is a compound protein composed of an iron-containing body, hifmatm, and of globin, a protein belonging to the globuUu group. Hiemoglobin has a great afliiuty for oxygen, and, when removed from the body, crystallises readily under certain circumstances ;