223 FRONTAL BONE Structure.—The frontal portion and external angular processes are very thick, consisting of diploic tissue contained between two compact laminae ; in the regions described above the diploic tissue is replaced b)' the frontal air sinuses. The orbital portion is thin, translucent, and composed entirely of compact tissue; hence the faciUty with which instruments can penetrate the cranium through this part of the orbit; when the frontal sinuses are exceptionally large they may extend backwards for a considerable distance between the two tables of the orbital portion. Ossification (fig. 292). —The frontal bone is ossified in membrane from iivo f rimary centres, one for each lateral half, which appear about the seventh week of fcBtal fife, above the orbital arches. From each of these centres ossification extends upwards to form the corresponding half of the frontal portion, and backwards to form the orbital plate. The nasal spine is ossified from a pair of secondary centres, one on either side of the middle line ; and similar centres appear in the regions of the internal and external angular processes. At birth the bone consists of two pieces, which afterwards become united, along the middle hne, by the metopic suture which rims from the vertex of the bone to the root of the nose. This suture usually becomes obliterated within a few years after birth; but it occasionally persists throughout life. Articulations.—The frontal articulates with twelve bones : the sphenoid, the ethmoid, the two parietals, the two nasals, the two maxillae, the two lachrymals, and the two malars. The Temporal Bones The temporal bones (ossa temporalia) are situated at the sides and base of the skull. Each consists of four parts, viz. the squamous or squamo- zygomatic, the petro-mastoid, the tympanic plate, and the styloid process. The squamous portion (squama temporalis), the anterior and upper part of the bone, is scale-like, thin and translucent. Its outer surface (fig. 293) is smooth and convex ; it affords attachment to the Temporal muscle, and forms part of the temporal fossa; on its hinder part is a vertical groove for the middle temporal arteiy. A curved ridge, the temporal ridge, or supra- masioid crest, runs backwards and upwards across its posterior part ; it serves for the attachment of the temporal fascia, and limits the origin of the Temporal muscle. The boundary between the squamous and mastoid portions of the bone, as indicated by traces of the original suture, lies about half an inch below this ridge. Projecting from the lower part of the squamous portion is a long, arched process, the zygomatic process (processus zjrgomaticus). This process is at first directed outw'ards, its two surfaces looking upwards and downwards ; it then appears as if twisted inwards upon itself, and runs forwards, its surfaces now looking inwards and outwards. The superior border of the process is long, thin, and sharp, and serves for the attachment of the temporal fascia ; the inferior, short, thick, and arched, has attached to it some fibres of the Masseter. The outer surface is convex and subcutaneous ; the inner is concave, and affords attachment to the Masseter. The extremity is deeply serrated and articulates with the malar bone. Tlie zygomatic process is connected to the squamous portion by two roots—anterior and posterior. The anterior root, continuous witli the lower border, is short but broad and strong ; it is directed inwards and terminates in a rounded eminence, the eminentia articularis (tuberculum articulare). This eminence forms the front boundary of the glenoid fossa, and in the recent state is covered with cartilage. In front of the articular eminence is a small triangular area which assists in forming the zygomatic fossa ; this area is separated from the outer surface of the squamous portion by a ridge which is continuous posteriorly with the anterior root of the zygoma, and anteriorly, in the articulated Fig. 292.—Frontal bone at birth. Ossified from two primary centres.