SPLANCHNOLOGY 1180 the middle line of tho upper part of the abdomen. The tumour is fixed and does not move with respiiation. The treatment consists in opening tlie abdomen in the middle line, incising the cyst, evacuating its contents, and fixing its walls to the deej)er layers of the abdominal wall. Drainage in the left loin, just below the last rib, can sometimes be establi.shed. When they are situated in tlie tail of the pancreas they may be removed. The pancreas is often the seat of cancer ; this usually allects the head, and therefore speedily involves tho common bile-duct, leading to persistent jaundice ; or it may press uijon the poi-tal vein, causing ascites, or involve the stomach, causing pyloric obstruction. It has been said that the pancreas is the only abdominal viscus which has never been found in a hernial protrusion ; but even this organ has been found, in company \vith other viscera, in rare cases of diaphragmatic hernia. UROGENITAL OEGANS The urogenital organs (apparatus urogenitalis) consist of (a) the urinarj* organs for the secretion and discharge of the urine and (h) the genital organs, which are concerned with the process of reproduction. THE URINARY ORGANS The urinary organs comprise the kidneys, which secrete the urine ; the ureters, or ducts, which convey it to the bladder, Avhere it is for a time retained ; and the urethra, tlirough which it is discharged from the body. The Kidneys The kidneys (renes) are situated in the posterior part of the abdomen, one on eitlier side of the vertebral column, behind the peritoneum, and surrounded by a mass of fat and loose areolar tissue. Their upper extremities are on a level with the upper border of the tw^ehth thoracic vertebra, their lower extremities on a level with the third lumbar. The right kidney is usually sUghtly lower than the left, probably on account of the vicinity of the hver. The long axis of each kidney is directed from above downwards and outwards ; the transverse axis from -ndthin backwards and outwards. Each kidney is about four and a half inches in length, two to two and a half in breadth, and rather more than one inch in thickness. The left is somewhat longer, and narrower, than the right. The weight of the kidney in the adult male varies from four and a half ounces to six ounces, in the adult female from four to five and a half ounces. The combined weight of the two kidneys in proportion to that of the body is about 1 to 240. The kidney has a characteristic form, and presents for examination two surfaces, two borders, and an upper and lower extremity. Relations (figs. 975, 976, 977).—The anterior surface (facies anterior) of each kidney is convex, and looks forwards and outwards. Its relations to adjacent viscera differ so completely on the two sides tliat separate descriptions are necessary. {a) Anterior surface of right kidney.—A narrow portion at the upper extremity is in relation with the suprarenal gland. Immediately hciow this a large area, involving about three-fourths of the surface, lies in the renal impression on the inferior surface of the liver, and a narrow but some^liat variable area near the inner border is in contact with the second part of the duodenum. The lower part of the anterior surface is in contact externally with the hepatic flexure of the colon, and internally with the small intestme. The areas in relation \yii\\ the Hver and intestine are covered by peritoneum ; the suprarenal, duodenal, and colic areas arc devoid of peritoneum. (6) Anterior surface of left kidney.^A small area along tlie upper part of the inner border is in relation with tlie suprarenal gland, and close to the outer border is a narrow strip in contact with the renal impression on the spleen. A broad, somewhat quadrilateral field, about the middle of the anterior surface, marks the site of contact with the body of the pancreas, on the deep surface of which are the splenic vessels. Above this is a small