THE SMALL INTESTINE 1147 most numerous in the ileum. In the lower part of the jejunum they are small, circular, and few in number. They are occasionally seen in the duodenum. They are placed lengthwise in the intestine, and are situated in the portion of the tube most distant from Fig. 948.—Vertical section of one of Beyer's patches from man, injected through-its lymphatic canals. o. Tilli with their chyle-passages. 5. Follicles o£ Lieberklihn. c. Muscularis mucosa!, d. Cupula or apex of solitary glands, e. Mesial zone of glands. /. Base of glands, g. Points of exit of the chyle-passages from the villi, and entrance into the true mucous membrane, h. Eetiform arrangement of the lymphatics in the mesial zone. i. Course of the latter at the base of the glands, k. Confluence of the lymphatics opening into the vessels of the submucous tissue. I. FoUicular tissue of the latter. the attachment of the mesentery. Each patch is formed of a group of solitary glands covered with mucous membrane, but the patches do not, as a rule, possess vilU on their free surfaces. They are best marked in the young subject, become indistinct in middle age, and sometimes disappear altogether in advanced hfe. They are freely supplied Fiq. 949.—Transverse section through the with blood-vessels, which form an abun- dant plexus around each folhcle and give off fine branches which permeate the lym- phoid tissue in the interior of the folhcle. Tlie lymphatic plexuses are especially abundant around these patches (fig. 948). Vessels and Nerves,—The jejunum and ileum are supphed by the superior mesenteric artery, the branches of which, having reached the attached border of the bowel, run between the serous and mus- cular coats, with frequent inosculations to the free border, where they also anastomose with other branches running round the opposite surface of the gut. From these vessels numerous branches are given oft', which pierce the muscular coat, supply- ing it and forming an intricate plexus in the submucous tissue. From this plexus minute vessels pass to the glands andvilU of the mucous membrane. Tlie veins have a similar com'se and arrangement to the arteries. The li/mphcUics of the small intestine (lacteals) are arranged in two sets, those of the mucous membrane and those of the muscular coat. The lymph- atics of the villi commence in these struc- tures in the manner described above, and form an intricate plexus in the mucous and submucous tissue, being joined by the lymphatics from the lymjsh-spaces at the bases of the solitary glands, and from this pass to larger vessels at the mesenteric border of the gut. The lymphatics of the muscular coat are situated to a great extent between the two layers of muscular fibres, where they form a equatorial plane of three of Beyer's follicles from the rabbit.