529 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THORACIC REGION superficial fascia of the neck and upper extremity above, and of the abdomen below. Opjjosite the mamma it divides into tAvo layers, one of whicli passes in front of, the otlier beliind tluit gland ; from both layers numerous septa pass into the gland, supporting its various lobes : from the anterior layer, fibrous ]irocesses pass forwards to the integument and nipple. These processes were railed by Sir A. Cooper the ligamenta suspensoria, from the support they afford to the gland in this situation. The deep fascia of the anterior thoracic region (fascia pectoralis) is a thin lamina, covering the surface of the Pectoralis major, and sending numerous prolongations between its fasciculi : it is attached, in the middle line, to the front of the sternum ; above, to the clavicle ; externally and below it becomes continuous with the fascia over the shoulder, axilla, and thorax. It is very thin over the upper part of the Pectoralis major muscle, thicker in the interval between it and the Latissimus dorsi, where it closes in the axillary space, and forms the fascia axillaris; it divides at the outer margin of the latter muscle into two layers, one of which passes in front, and the other behind it ; these proceed as far as the spinous processes of the thoracic vertebrae, to which they are attached. As the fascia leaves the lower edge of the Pectoralis major to pass across the floor of the axilla it sends a layer upwards under cover of the muscle : this lamina splits to envelop the Pectoralis minor, at the upper edge of which it becomes continuous with the costo- coracoid membrane. The hollow of the armpit, seen when the arm is abducted, is produced mainly by the traction of this fascia on the axillary floor, and hence the lamina is sometimes named the suspensory ligament of the axilla. At the lower part of the thoracic region the deep fascia is well developed, and is continuous with the fibrous sheaths of the Recti abdominis. Applied Anatomy.—Id. cases of suppuration in the axilla, the axillary fascia prevents the extension of the pus in a downward direction, and so it has a tendencv to spread upwards, beneath the Pectoral muscles, towards the root of the neck Early evacuation is therefore necessary. The incision should be made midway between the anterior and posterior axillary folds, so as to avoid the long thoracic and subscapular vessels, and the edge of the knife should be directed away from the axillary vessels. The Pectoralis major (fig. 517) is a broad, thick, triangular muscle situated at the upper and fore part of tlie chest and in front of the axilla It arises from the anterior surface of the sternal half of the clavicle • from half the breadth of the anterior surface of the sternum, as low doMTi'as the attachment of the cartilage of tlie sixth or seventh rib ; from the cartilages of aU the true ribs, with the exception, frequently, of the first, or seventh or both, and from the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres from tins extensive origin converge towards theii- inser- tion, giving to the muscle a radiated appearance. Those fibres which arise from the clavicle pass obliquely outwards and do\A nwards, and are usuaUy separated from tlie rest by a slight interval : those from tlie lower part of the sternum and the cartilages of the lower true ribs, run upwards and outwards ; while the middle fibres pass horizontally. They all terminate m a flat tendon about two inches broad, which is inserted into the outer bicipital ridge of the Humerus This tendon consists of two lammse, placed one in front of the other and usually blended togetlier below. The anterior lamina, the thicker, receives the clavicular and the upper fibres of the sternal portion of the muscle ; its bbres are inserted in the same order as that in which they arise : that is to ntv; f o'^tej-^ost fibres of origin from the clavicle are inserted at the uppermost dn 1 ; If bicipital ridge ; the upper fibres of origin from the sternum pass aown to the lowermost part of this anterior lamina of the tendon and extend nf iP'^'.^'^i^^e tendon of the Deltoid and join with it. The posterior lamina oi the tendon receives the attaciiment of the lower fibres of the sternal portion ana the deeper part of the muscle from the costal cartUages. These deep acres, and particularly those from the lower costal cartilages, ascend tlie liiglier f^!f?.^ baclvwards successively behind the superficial and upper ones, &o tnat the tendon appears to be twisted. The posterior lamina reaches higher on the humerus than the anterior one, and from it an expansion is given off ininf ''^^''^ bicipital groove and blends with the capsule of the slioulder- joint. J^rom the deepest fibres of this lamina at its insertion an expansion M M