THE ABDOIVIEN 1119 transverse diameter. In order to facUitate description, it is artificially divided into two parts : an upper and larger part, the abdomen propei- ; and a lower and smaUer part, the pelvis. These two cavities are not separated from each other, but the limit between them is marked by the brim ot the true pelvis. , r i.i i i • The abdomen proper differs from the other great cavities of the body in beinf' bounded for the most part by muscles and fascias, so that it can vary in capacity and shape according to the condition of the viscera wliich it contains ; but, in addition to this, the abdomen varies in form and extent wath age and sex.' In the adult male, wth moderate distension of the viscera, it is oval or barrel-shaped, but at the same time flattened from before backwards. In the adult female, with a fully developed pelvis, it is conical with the apex above, and in young children it is conical \vith. the apex belo\\'. It is bounded in front and at the sides by the lower ribs, the abdominal muscles, and the iliac fossae ; behind by the vertebral column and the Psoas and Quadratus lumborum muscles ; above by the Diaphragm ; below by the plane of the brim of the pelvis. The muscles forming the boundaries of the cavity are lined upon their inner surfaces by a layer of fascia, differently named according to the part it covers. The abdomen contains the greater part of the alimentary canal ; some of the accessory organs to digestion, viz. the liver and pancreas; the spleen, the kidneys, and suprarenal glands. Most of these structures, as well as the wall of the cavity in which they are contained, are more or less covered by an extensive and complicated serous membrane, the peritoneum. The apertures found in the walls of the abdomen, for the transmission of structures to or from it, are, the umbilicus (in the foetus), for the transmission of tlie umbilical vessels ; the caval opening in the Diaphragm, for the trans- mission of the inferior vena cava ; the aortic opening, for the passage of the aorta, vena azygos major, and thoracic duct ; and the oesophageal opening, for the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves. Below, there are two apertures on either side : one for the passage of the femoral vessels, and the other for the transmission of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Regions.—For convenience of description of the viscera, as well as of reference to the morbid conditions of the contained parts, the abdomen is artificially divided into nine regions by imaginary planes, two horizontal and two sagittal, passing through the cavity, the edges of tlie planes being indicated by lines drawn on the surface of the body. Of the horizontal planes the upper or infracostal is indicated by a line encircling the body at the level of the lowest points of the tenth costal cartilages, the lower by a line earned round the trunk at the level of the highest points of the iliac crests as seen from the front. The latter is the interttibercular plane of Cunningham, who has pointed out* that its level corresponds -ndth the prominent and easilj^ defined tubercle .on the iliac crest about two inches behind the anterior superior iliac spine. By means of these imaginary planes the abdomen is divided into three zones, which are named from above doMTiwards the subcostal, umbilical, and hypo- gastric zones. Each of these is further subdivided into three regions by the two sagittal planes, w hich are indicated on the surface by lines drawn vertically through points halfway between the anterior superior iliac spines and the symphy.sis pubis.f The middle region of the upper zone is called the epigastric ; and the two lateral regions, the right and left hypochondriac. The central region of the * Journal of Anatomy and Phi/xiology, vol. x.wii. t Anatomists are far from agreed as to tlie best niethoil of subdividing the abdominal cavity, but that given above is the one which is generally adopted in this country. Addison,' in a careful analysis of the abdominal viscera in a large number of subiects, adopts the following linos: (1) a median, from the symphysis pubis to the cusiform cartilage; (2) two lateral lines each drawn vertically through a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis ; (3) an upper transverse line halfway between the symphysis jiubis and the suprasternal notch; and (4) a lower transverse line midway between the last, and tlie upper border of the symphysis pubis. The upper transverse line corresponds with what he has termed the tranitpylorio 2>lano, from the fact that in most cases this plane cuts through the pylorus. ' Journal of Anatomy and Physiologu, vols, xxxiii., xxxiv., xxxv.