SPINAL NERVES 943 roots join to form the spinal nerve this sheath is continuous with the epineurium of the nerve. Size and direction,—The roots of the upper four cervical nerves are small, those of the lower four are large. The posterior roots of the cervical nerves bear a proportion to the anterior of tlu-ee to one, which is greater than in the other regions ; their individual filaraents are also larger than those of the anterior roots. The j^osterior root of the first cervical is an exception to this rule, being smaller than the anterior root; in eight per cent, of cases it is wanting. The roots of the first and second cervical nerves are short, and run nearly horizontally outwards to their points of exit from the vertebral canal. From the second to the eighth cervical they are directed obli'quely downwards and outwards, the obliquity and length of the roots successively increasing ; the distance, however, between the level of attachment of any of these roots to the cord and the points of exit of the corresponding nerves never exceeds the depth of one vertebra. The roots of the thoracic nerves, with the exception of the first, are of small size, and the posterior only slightly exceed the anterior in thickness. They increase successively in length, from above doM'nwards, and in the lower part of the thoracic region descend in contact with the cord for a distance equal to the height of at least two vertebrae before they emerge from the vertebral canal. The roots of the lower lumbar and upjjer sacral nerves are the largest, and their individual filaments tlie most numerous of all the spinal nerves, while the roots of the coccygeal nerve are the smallest. The roots of the lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal nerves run vertically down- wards to their respective exits, and as the spinal cord ends near the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra it follows that the length of the successive roots must rapidly increase. As already mentioned (page 797), the term Cauda equina is applied to this collection of nerve roots. From the description given it will be seen that the largest nerve roots, and consequently tlie largest spinal nerves, are attaclied to the cervical and lumbar swellings of the cord ; these nerves are distributed to the upper and lower limbs. Points of emergence.—The following table, after Macalister, shows the relations whicli the places of attachment of the nerves to the cord present to the bodies and spinous processes of the vertebrae : Level of body of No. of Nerve Level of tip of spine of Level of body of ,No. of Nerve Level of tip of spine of C. 1 C. 1 T. 8 T. 9 7 T. 2 \l 9 10 8 T. 1 c. 10 11 9 T. 3 4 2C. 12 10 T. 4 5 3 C. 11 L. 11 T. 5 6 4C. 6 7 5 C. 12 1 r 8 6 0. 4 12 T. 7 T, 1 7 C. f 5 T. 1 2 1 T. S. 1 ■ 2 3 L. 1 - 2i 3 4 2 T. 3 4 5 3 t! 4 - IL. 5 6 4T. 5 6 7 5 T. C. li 7 8 6 T. L. 2 Connections with sympathetic. — Immediately beyond the spinal ganglion, the anterior and posterior nerve roots unite to form the spinal nerve which emerges through the intervertebral foramen. Each spinal nerve receives a branch {grey ramus communicans) from the adjacent ganglion of the sym- pathetic cord, while all the thoracic, and the first and second lumbar nerves each