700 ANGIOLOGY in a tortuous manner between the two layers of the broad ligament to the junction of the Fallopian tube and uterus. It then runs outwards towards the hilus of the ovary, and terminates by anastomosing with the ovarian artery. It supplies branches to the cer^dx uteri and others which descend on the vagina ; the latter anastomose with branches of the vaginal arteries and form with them two median longitudinal vessels—the azygos arteries of the vagina—which run down one in front and the other on the back of the vagina. It supplies numerous branches to the body of the uterus, and from its terminal portion branches are distributed to the Fallopian tube and the round ligament of the uterus. The vaginal (a. vaginalis) usually corresponds to the ii^erior vesical in the male ; it descends upon the vagina, supplying its mucous membrane, and sends branches to the bulb of the vestibule, the neck of the bladder, and the contiguous part of the rectum. It assists in forming the azygos arteries of the vagina, and is frequently represented by two or three branches. The obturator (a. obturatoria) passes forwards and downwards on the lateral wall of the pelvis, to the upper part of the obturator foramen, and, escaping from the pelvic cavity through a short canal, formed by a groove on the under surface of the ascending ramus of the pubis and the arched border of the obturator fascia, it divides into an internal and an external branch. In the pehac cavity this vessel is in relation, externally, with the obturator fascia ; internally, A\ith the ureter, vas deferens, and peritoneum ; while a little below it, is the obturator nerve. Branches.—Inside the 'pelvis, the obturator artery gives ofiE an iliac branch to the iliac fossa, which supplies the bone and the Iliacus muscle, and anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery ; a vesical branch, which runs backwards to supply the bladder ; and a pubic branch, which is given off from the vessel just before it leaves the pelvic cavity. The pubic branch ascends upon the back of the pubis, communicating vnth offsets from the deep epigastric artery, and with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side; it is sometimes placed on the inner side of the femoral ring. Outside the pelvis, the obturator artery divides into an internal and an external branch, which are deeply situated beneath the Obturator externus. The internal branch curves downwards along the inner margin of the obturator foramen, lying beneath the Obturator externus muscle ; it distributes branches to the Obturator externus, Pectineus, Adductors, and GraciUs, and anastomoses -nith the external branch, and with the internal circumflex artery. The external branch ciurves round the outer margin of the foramen, also lying beneath the Obturator externus muscle, to the space between the Gemellus inferior and Quadratus femoris, where it divides into two branches. One, the smaller, courses inwards around the lower margin of the foramen and anastomoses with the internal branch and vdth. the internal circumflex ; the other inclines outwards in the groove below the acetabulum, and suppUes the muscles attached to the tuberosity of the ischium and anastomoses with the sciatic artery. It sends through the cotyloid notch a branch to the hip-joint, which ramifies on the round ligament as far as the head of the femur. ■ Peculiarities.—The obturator artery sometimes arises from the main stem or from the posterior trunk of the internal iliac, or it may spring from the gluteal artery. Occasionally it arises from the external iliac. In about two out of every seven cases it sprmgs from the deep epigastric and descends almost vertically to the upper part of the obturator foramen. The artery in this course usually lies in contact with the external iliac vein. Fig. 610.—Variations in origin and com-se of obturator artery. and on the outer side of the femoral ring (fig. 010, a) ; in such cases it would not be endangered in the operation for femoral hernia. Occasionally, however, it curves "i^^ards along the free margin of Gimbernat's hgament (fig. 610, B), and if m s"ch circumstances a femoral hernia occurred, the vessel would almost completely encircle the neck of t lie hernial sac, and would be in great danger of being wounded if an operation were peitormea for strangulation.