APPLIED ANATOMY OF MUSCLES OF UPPER EXTREMITY 561 Fia. 537.—Fracture of the humerus above the condyles. outer fragment being ch'awn downwards by the weight of tlie arm, and rotated forwards and inwards, so that it forms a riglit angle with the rest of the bone. Fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus (fig. .536) is very common, is attended with considerable displacement, and its appearances coiTespond somewhat with those of dislocation of the head of the humerus into the axilla. The upper fragment remains in its place under the coraco-acromial ligament ; the lower fragment is drawn inwards by the Pectoralis major, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major ; and the humerus is thrown obliquely outwards from the side by the Deltoid, and occa- sionally elevated so as to cause the upper end of the lower fragment to project beneath and in front of the coracoid process. The deformity is reduced by fixing the shoulder, and drawing the arm out- wards and downwards. To counteract the opposmg muscles, and to keep the fragments in position, a cone-shaped pad should be placed in the axilla, and the arm bandaged to the side by a broad roller passed roimd the chest in such a manner that the elbo^v is carried slightly forwards, so as to throw the upper end of the lower fragment backwards and outwards towards the head of the bone. The whole is then covered with a carefully moulded guttajjercha or poroplastic shoulder-cap. In fracture of the shajt of the humerus below the insertion of the Pectoralis major, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major, and above the insertion of the Deltoid, there is also considerable deformity, the upper fi'agment being diwvn inwards by the tirst-mentioned muscles, and the lower fragment upwards and outwards by the Deltoid. Shortening of the limb results, with a considerable prominence at the seat of fracture, from the fractured ends of the bone riding over one another, especially if the fracture take place in an obUque direction. The fi-agments may be brought into apposition by extension from the elbow, and retained in that position by adopting the same means as in the preceding injury. In fracture of the shajl of the humerus immediately below the insertion of the Deltoid, the amount of deformity depends greatly upon the direction of the fracture. If it occur in a transverse direction, only slight displacement takes ])laco, the upper fi-agment being dmn-n a little forwards ; but m oblique fi-actm-e, the combined actions of the Biceps and Brachialis antieus muscles m front and the Triceps behind draw upwards the lower fragment, causmg it to glide over the upper fragment, either backwards or forwards, according to the direction of the frac- FiG. 538.—Fi'acture of the olecranon. ture. Simple extension reduces the deformity, and the application of a shoulder-cap and splints to the arm will retain the fragments in apposition. Care should be taken not to raise the elbow ; but the forearm and hand may be supported in a sling. Fracture of the humerus (fig. 537) immediately above the condyles de- serves very attentive consideration, as the general ajjpearances correspond somewhat with those produced by separatioii of the epiph3^sis of the liumerus, and with those of disloca- tion of the radius and ulna backwards. If the direction of the fracture is oblique, from above, downwards and forwards, the lower fragment is drawn upwards by the Brachialis antieus and Biceps in front, and the Triceps same time is drawn backwards behind the upper fragment by injury may be diagnosed from dislocation by the increased crepitus, and the fact that the deformity is behind ; and at the the Triceps. This mobility in fracture, the existence ii inedied by extension, but is the patient is of importance in the epiphysis. In some eases elbow, the lower fragment is of reproduced on the discontinuance of it. The age of distinguishing this form of injury from separation of where the injury has been produced by falls on the drawn upwards and forwards, causing a considerable 0 O