SYNDESMOLOGY 422 Fig. 461.—Lateral view of metacarpo- phalangeal and interphalangeal joints. IX. INTERMETACAKPAL AETICULATIONS (ARTICULATIONES INTERMETACARPE^) The carpal extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones articulate with one another by small surfaces covered with cartilage, and connected together by dorsal, palmar, and interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal and Palmar Ligaments pass transversely from one bone to another on the dorsal and palmar surfaces. The Interosseous Ligaments pass between their contiguous surfaces, just beneath their lateral articular facets. The Synovial Membrane between the lateral facets is a reflection from that between the two rows of carpal bones. The Transverse Metacarpal Ligament (fig. 460) is a narrow fibrous band, which passes transversely across the anterior surfaces of the digital extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones, con- necting them together. It Ls blended anteriorly with the anterior (glenoid) ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations. To its posterior border is connected the fascia which covers the Interosseous muscles. Its anterior surface is concave where the Flexor tendons pass over it. Behind it the tendons of the Interossei pass to their insertions. X. METACARPO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULA- TIONS (ARTICULATIONES METACARPO- PHALANGE^) (figs. 460, 461) These articulations are of the con- dyloid kind, formed by the reception of the rounded heads of the metacarpal bones into shallow cavities in the extremities of the first phalanges, with the exception of that of the thumb, which presents more of the characters of a ginglymoid jouit. The ligaments are— Anterior and Two Lateral. Metacarpal hone Srcl phalanx 2nd phalanx _Latera,l ligament Lateral ligament The Anterior Ligaments [Glenoid Ligaments of Cruveilhier) are thick, dense, fibro-cartilaginous structures, placed upon the palmar surfaces of the joints in the intervals between the lateral ligaments, to which they are connected ; they are loosely united to the metacarpal bones, but are very firmly attached to the bases of the first phalanges. Their palmar surfaces are intimately blended with the transverse metacarpal ligament, and present grooves for the passage of tlie Flexor tendons, the sheaths surroundmg wliich are connected to the sides of the grooves. By then: deep surfaces, tliey form part of the articular facets for the heads of the metacarpal bones, and are lined by synovial membranes. , , The Lateral Ligaments (hgg. collateraHa) are strong, rounded cords, placed on the sides of the joints; each is attached by one extremity \o the posterior tubercle and adjacent depression on the side of the head d the metacarpal bone, and by the other to the contiguous extremity ot the phalanx. . . . Movements.—The movements which occur in these joints are iiexion, exten- sion, adduction, abduction, and circumduction ; the movements of abduction and adduction are very hmited, and cannot be performed when the imgers aie flexed.