MEMBRANES AND APPENDAGES OP THE EMBRYO 95 In reptiles, birds, and many mammals the allantois becomes expanded into a sesicle (fig 199) which projects into the extra-embryonic coelom, i.e. into the space between the amnion and the serosa. If its further development be traced in the bird, it is seen to project to the right side of the embryo, and, gradually expanding it spreads over its dorsal surface as a flattened sac between the amnion and the serosa, and, extending in aU directions, ultimately surrounds the yolk. Its outer wall becomes applied to, and fuses with, the serosa, which lies immediately inside the shell membrane. Blood is carried to the allantoic sac by the two allan- toic or umbilical arteries, which are continuous with the primitive aortse, and, after circulating through the allantoic capillaries, is returned to the primitive heart by the two imibilical veins. In this way the allantoic circulation, which is of the utmost importance in connection with the respiration and nutrition of the chick, is established. Oxygen is taken from, and carbonic acid is given up to the atmosphere through the egg-shell, while nutritive materials are at the same time absorbed by the blood from the yolk. In man and other primates the nature of the allantois is entirely different from that just described. Here it exists merely as a narrow, tubular diverticulum of the hind-gut, and never assiunes the form of a vesicle outside the embryo. With the formation of the amnion the embryo is, in most animals, entirely separated from the chorion, and is only again united to it when the allantoic mesoderm spreads over and becomes applied to its inner surface. The human embryo, on the other hand, as was pointed out by His, is never wholly separated from the chorion, its tail end being from the first connected with the chorion by means of Fig. 118.—^Diagram illustrating early formation of allantois and diflferen- tiation of body-stalk. FiG. 117.—Diagram showing earliest Amniotic cavity observed stage of human ovum. Amniotic cavity ^—Body-stalk Allantois 7ol1c-sac Chorivn Yolk-sac Chorion a thick baud of mesoderm, named the body-stalk (Bauchstiel) (figs. 118 and 119) ; into this stalk the tube of the allantois extends (fig. 113). Moreover, in the human embryo the allantoic diverticulum is seen before the hind-gut is formed, and appears as a tubular protrusion from the yolk-sac (fig. 114). The body- stalk is at first attached to the hind-end of the embryo, but with the growth of the tail and the formation of the caudal flexure it assumes a ventral position, and the tubular allantois is then seen to open from the cloacal part of the hind-gut. The umbihcal orifice divides the allantois into two portions—an intra-abdominal and an extra-abdominal. The latter persists till birth in a rudimentary condition ; the proximal part of the intra-abdominal portion takes part in the formation of the cloaca. After the subdivision of the cloacal part of the hind-gut into bladder and rectum has taken place the distal part of the intra-abdominal portion of the allantois becomes obliterated and forms a fibrous cord, the urachus, which reaches from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. The umbilical cord and body-stalk (figs. 119, 120, 121).—The rudiment of the umbihcal cord is represented by the tissue which separates the rapidly growing embryo from the extra-embryonic area of the ovum. Included in this tissue are the body-stalk and the vitelline duct—the former containing the allantoic diverticulum and the umbilical vessels, the latter forming the communication between the aUmentary canal and the yolk-sac. The body-stalk is the posterior segment of the embryonic area, and is attached to the chorion. It consists of a plate of mesoderm covered by thickened ectoderm on which a trace of the neural groove can be seen, indicating its continuity with the embryo. Running through its mesoderm are the two umbilical arteries and the two umbilical veins, together with the canal