1245 SUPRARENAL GLANDS The spleen may become enormously enlarged in cectain diseased conditions, such as ague, leukffimia, syphilis, valvular disease of the heart, or \vithout any obtainable history of previous disease. It may also become enlarged in lymphadenoma, as a part of a general blood-disease. In these cases the tumour may fill a considerable part of the abdomen and extend into the pelvis, and may be mistaken for ovarian or uterine new growth. The spleen is sometimes the seat of cystic tumours, especially hydatids, and of abscess. These cases require treatment by incision and drainage ; and in abscess great care must be taken, if there are no adhesions between the spleen and abdominal wall, to prevent the escape of any of the pus into the peritoneal cavity. If possible the operation should be performed in two stages. Sarcoma and carcinoma are occasionally found in the spleen, but very rarely as a primary disease. Extirpation of the spleen has been performed for wounds or injuiies, in floating spleen, in simple hypertrophy, and in leukasmic enlargement; but in the last condition the opera- tion is now regarded as unjustifiable, as every case in which it has been performed has terminated fatally. The incision is best made in the left semilunar line ; the spleen is isolated from its surroundings, and the pedicle transfixed and Hgatured in two portions, before the tumour is turned out of the abdominal cavity, if possible, so as to avoid any traction on the pedicle, which may cause tearing of the splenic vein. Care must be taken in applying the ligature not to include the tail of the pancreas, and in lifting out the organ to avoid rupturing the capsule. The suprarenal glands (glandulse suprarenales) are two small flattened bodies of a yellowish colour, situated at the back part of the abdomen, beliind the peritoneum, and immediately above and in front of the upper end of each kidney ; hence their name. The right one is somewhat triangular in shape, bearing a resemblance to a cocked hat ; the left is more semilunar, usually larger and placed at a higher level than the right. They vary in size in different individuals, being sometimes so small as to be scarcely detected : their usual size is from an inch and a quarter to nearly two inches in length, rather less in width, and from two to three lines in thickness. Their average weight is from one to one and a half drachms each. Relations.—The relations of the suprarenal glands differ on the two sides of the body. The right suprarenal is situated beliind the inferior vena cava and right lobe of the liver, and in front of the Diaphragm and upper end of the SUPEARBNAL GlANDS Fig. 1030.—Suprarenal glands viewed from the front. Area covered by inferior vena ca va Hepatic area — Pancreatic area Gastric area Capsular vein RlQHT. Left.