541 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OP THE FOREARM Pig. 521.—^Front of the left fore- arm. Superficial muscles. of the forearm ; and from the intermuscular septa between it and the Pronator teres externally, the Palraaris longus internallj'-, and the Flexor subUmis digitorum beneath. Slender and aponeurotic in structure at its commence- ment, it increases in size, and terminates in a tendon, wliich forms rather more than the lower half of its length. Tliis tendon passes through a canal in the outer part of the annular ligament, runs through a groove in the trapezium (which is converted into a canal by a fibrous sheath, and lined by a synovial mem- brane), and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the mdex finger, and by a slip into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. The radial artery, in the lower part of the forearm, lies between the tendon of this muscle and the Brachio-radiaUs, and may easily be tied in this situation. The Palmaris longus is a slender, fusiform muscle, lying on the inner side of the preceding. It arises from the inner epicondyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from the deep fascia, and the intermuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. It terminates in a slender, flattened tendon, which passes over the upper part of the annular ligament, to end in the central part of the palmar fascia and lower part of the annular ligament, frequently sending a tendinous slip to the short muscles of the thumb. This muscle is often absent, and is subject to very considerable variations : it may be ten- dinous above and muscular below ; or it may be muscular in the centre with a tendon above and below ; or it may present two muscular bundles with a central tendon; or finally it may consist solely of a tendinous band. Just above the wTist, the median nerve lies close to the tendon, on its outer and posterior aspects. The Flexor carpi ulnaris lies along the ulnar side of the forearm. It arises by two heads, connected by a tendinous arch, beneath which pass the uhiar nerve and posterior ulnar recurrent artery. One head (caput liumerale) arises from the inner epicondyle of the humerus by the common tendon; the other (caput ulnare) from the inner margin of the olecranon and from the upper two-thirds of the posterior border of the ulna by an aponeurosis, common to it and the Extensor carpi ulnaris and Flexor profundus digitorum ; and from the inter- muscular septum between it and the Flexor sublimis digitorum. The fibres terminate in a tendon, which occupies the anterior part of the lower half of the muscle, and is inserted into the pisiform bone, and is prolonged from this to the unciform and fifth metacarpal bones by the piso-unciform and piso-metacarpal liga- ments ; it is also attached by a few fibres to the annular ligament. The ulnar vessels and nerve lie on the outer side of the tendon of tliis muscle, in the lower two-thirds of tlie forearm ; the tendon forming a guide in tying the artery in this situation. The Flexor sublimis digitorum (m. flexor digitorum sublimis) is placed beneath the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; it is the largest of the muscles of tlie superficial layer, and arises by three heads. One head (caput humerale) arises from the internal epicondyle of the humerus by the common tendon,