ISYJMDESMULUGY 380 The principal muscles by whicli these movements are produced are the Stei-ii(j- mastoid and Complexus of one side, acting with the Rectus capitis anticus major, Splenius, Trachelo-mastoid, Rectus capitis posticus major, and Inferior and Superior oblique of the other side. III. ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN WITH THE CRANIUM The ligaments connecting the vertebral column with the cranium may be divided into two sets, those connecting the atlas with the occipital bone, and those connecting the axis with the occipital bone. Ligaments connecting the Atlas with the Occipital Bone The articulation between the atlas and the occipital bone is a double condyloid joint. Its ligaments are : Two Capsular. Anterior Occipito-atlantal. Posterior Occipito-atlantal. Two Lateral Occipito-atlantal. The Capsular Ligaments (capsulse articulares) surround the condj^es of the occipital bone, and connect them with the articular processes of the atlas ; they are thin and loose, and are lined by synovial membrane. The Anterior Occipito-atlantal Ligament (membrana atlantooccipitalis anterior) (fig. 427) is a broad membrane, composed of densely woven fibres, which passes between the anterior margm of the foramen magnum above, and the upper border of the anterior arch of the atlas below. Laterally, Fig. 430.—Occipito-axial and atlanto-axial ligaments. Posterior view, obtained by removing the arches of the vertebrse and the posterior part of the slaill. Middle odontoid ligament Uccipilo- ( Capsular lim- atlantal \ '"f"' ""^ fl'""' \ twl membrane . . , 1 Capsular ligament Ulanio-] andspnoria! I membrane it is continuous with the capsular ligaments. In front, it is strengthened in the middle line by a strong, rounded cord, which is attached, above, to the Lilar process of the occiput, and, below,, to the tubercle on the ante^^ arch of the atlas. This ligament is in relation m front Avith the R«cti antici minores, behind with the odontoid ligaments. „tior,fnnnpi,iitaHs The Posterior Occipito-atlantal Ligament (membrana ^tlant«of posterior) (fig. 428) is a broad but thin membrane connected, aboxe to e posterior margin o the foramen magnum ; below, to the upper border of the