THE ANIMAL CELL always takes place in this way, and that the process of reproduction of ceUs by S division is, as some observers believe, merely a sort of mipcrfect or """"TCl^Zlffrihiveot ceU division is characterised by a series of complex chm^es?n the nucleus, leading to its subdivision; this is followed by cleavage of the cell piUoplasm. Starting with the nucleus in the quiescent or resUng staS these kanges may be brieflv grouped under the four foUowing phases : f Prophase.-T]ie nuclear network of chromatin filaments assumes the form of a twisted skein or spirem. while the nuclear membrane and '^^l^^^l^^ ^^^PP^^;^ The convoluted skein of chromatin divides into a definite number of y-shaped segments or chromosomes. The number of chromosomes varies in different ammals XmL it is believed to be always sixteen^ Coincident with or P-c^<^^g th^se changes the centrosome, or attraction particle, which usually lies by the side ol lYucleus, underg and the two resulting centrosomes, each s n'oimded by a centrosphere, are seen to be connected by a spindle of delicate hromatic fibres, the achromatic spindle. The centrosomes ^oje away fTom each other-one towards either extremity of the uucleus-and the fibiils of the ichrmnatic spindle are correspondingly lengthened The centrosomes are no v situated one at either extremity or pole of the elongated spindle, and each is JSroimded by a centrosphere, from which fibrils radiate into the investing proto- plasm. A Une encircUng the spindle midway between its poles is named the equator, and around this the V-shaped chromosomes arrange themselves m the form of a star, thus constituting the mother star or monaster. i 2 Metavhase.—Each V-shaped chi-omosome now undergoes longitudinal cleavage into two equal parts or daughter chromosomes, the cleavage commencing at the apex of the V and extending along its divergent hmbs. The daughter chromosomes, thus separated, travel in opposite directions along the hbills ol the achromatic spindle towards the centrosomes, aroimd which they group tliQm- selves, and thus two star-hke figures are formed, one at either pole oi the achromatic spindle. This constitutes the diaster. 3 Anaphase.—The daughter chromosomes now arrange themselves into a skein o/ spire,n, and eventually form the network of chromatin which is characteristic of the resting nucleus. The nuclear membrane and nucleolus aie also differentiated during this phase. The cell protoplasm begins to appeal constricted aromid the equator of the achromatic spindle, where double rows ot granules are also sometimes seen. The constriction deepens and tlie original cell gradually becomes divided. ^ „iio 4 Telophase.—In this stage the ceU is completely divided mto two new cells, each with its own nucleus, centrosome and centrosphere, which assume tne ordinary positions occupied by such structures in the resting stage. _ The series of diagrams (fig. 2), by Delepine, is intended to explain the formation of some of the most important changes observed in nuclei ot ceiis durin" karyolvinesis ; it is based chiefly on the work of Flemmmg, Strasburger, E. van Beneden, Rabl, 0. Hertwig, Henneguy, and others. A. Restmg nucleus. Nucleolus and nuclear membrane visible. A centrosome is represented near tiie nucleus, b and c. Skein or spirem. b. Chromatic filaments much convolutea. Lonc'itudinal spUtting is evident in several parts. The centrosome has dividea and the nuclear membrane is becoming indistinct, c. The two centrosomes are mdely separated, and the space between them is occupied by the achromatic spindle. (Two arrows point to the positions which the centrosomes _ will ultimately occupy; duiing their passage to these points the achromatic spinaie seems to be within the nucleus.) The nuclear membrane has disappearea. D. Mother star or monaster. The nuclear segments (chromosomes) resulting nom the breaking-up of the chromatic filament into fragments of nearly equal lengtn have moved towards the equator of the spindle, where they now form an equatorial plate. These segments are all split longitudinally. E. Melaphase One halt ol each chromosome moves in the direction of one pole and the other halt m that oi the other pole, being guided towards the centrosomes by the achromatic hlanients. p. Daunhter stars or diaster. G. Daughter skeins or dispirem, begmning to form. Segments in the form of thick loops not closely packed. H. Daughter skeins ox dispirem, formed. Segments more closely packed and less distinct, owing to the formation of anastomoses, i. Resting daughter nuclei. Cell completely divided into two, but bridges remain between them in the region previously occupied by