957 BRACHIAL PLEXUS Fig. 797.—Cutaneous nerves of right upper extremity. Anterior view. with the musculo-spiral nerve, and its fibres may be traced through the posterior cord to the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It is at first placed behind the axillary artery, between it and the Subscapularis muscle, and jiasses downwards and outwards to the lower border of that muscle. It tlien winds backwards, in company \^-ith the posterior cu-cumflex artery, through a quadrilateral space bounded above by the Subscapularis, below by the Teres major, internally by the long head of the Triceps, and externally by the surgical neck of the humerus, and divides into two branches. The upper branch winds round the surgical neck of the humerus, beneath the Deltoid, with the posterior circum- flex vessels, as far as the anterior border of that muscle, supplying it, and giving oflE cutaneous branches, which pierce the muscle and ramify in the integument covering its lower part. The loiver branch, at its origin, dis- tributes filaments to the Teres minor and the back part of the Deltoid. Upon the filament to the former muscle an oval enlai'gement usually exists. The nerve then pierces the deep fascia, and supplies the integument over the lower two-thirds of the posterior part of the Deltoid, as well as that covering the long head of the Triceps. The circumflex nerve, before its division, gives off an articular filament which enters the shoulder-joint below the Subscapularis. The musculo-cutaneous (n. mus- culocutaneus) (fig. 801) arises from the outer cord of the brachial plexus, opposite the lower border of the Pec- toralis minor, its fibres being derived from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It perforates the Coraco-brachialis muscle and passes obliquely between the Biceps and Brachialis anticus, to the outer side of the arm ; a little above the elbow it becomes cutaneous by perforating the deep fascia on the outer side of the tendon of the Biceps. In its course througli the arm it supplies the Coraco-brachialis, Biceps, and the greater part of the Brachialis anticus. The branch to the Coraco-brachialis is given off from the nerve close to its origin, and in some instances, especially in early life, as a separate filament from the outer cord of the plexus; it is derived from the seventh nerve, and is by some anatomists regarded as a separate nerve, more or less closely incorporated with the musculo-cutaneous. The branches to the Biceps and Brachialis anticus are given off after tlie musculo-cutaneous lias pierced the Coraco-brachialis. The nerve also sends a small branch to the bone, which enters the nutrient foramen with the accompanying artery, while the branch supplying the Brachialis anticus gives a filament to the elbow joint. The cutaneous portion of the nerve (n. cutaneus antibrachii lateralis) passes behind the median cephaHc vein, and divides, opposite the elbow-joint, into an anterior and a posterior branch.