1175 THE PANCREAS where its onward course is arrested, and where it undergoes development into the fully formed hydatid. , , The crall-bladder may become distended in cases of obstruction of its duct or the common bile-duct, or from a collection of gall-stones in its interior, thus forming a large tumour The swelling is pear-shaijed, and projects downwards and forwards to the umbilicus. It moves wth respiration, since it is attached to the liver. To relieve this condition, the gall-bladder must be opened (choiceysiotomij) and the gall-stones removed. 1 ho operation is performed by an incision, two or three inches long, through the outer part ot the riglit Rectus muscle, commencing at the costal margin. The peritoneal cavity is opened, and. tlio tumour having been found, gauze is packed round it to protect the peritoneal cavity, ana it is aspii-ated. men the contained fluid has been evacuated the flaccid bladder is drawn out of the abdominal wound and its wall incised ; any gall-stones in the bladder are now removed and the interior of the sac sponged di-y. If the case is one of obstruction of tlie duct, an attempt must be made to dislodge the stone by manipulation through the wall ot the duct; or it may be crushed from without by the fingers or carefully padded forceps. If this does not succeed, the safest plan is to incise the duct, extract the stone, and close the incision by fine sutmes in two layers. After all obstruction has been removed, the edges of the incision in the gall-bladder may be sutured to the anterior sheath of the Rectus and a fistulous communication established between the gall-bladder and the exterior ; this fistulous opening usually closes in the com'se of a few weeks. The gall-bladder niay be completely removed if it be quite certain that no cause for biUary obstruction remain : this is also done for primary malignant growth of the viscus. The Pancreas The pancreas is a compound racemose gland, analogous in its structure to the salivary glands, though softer and less compactly arranged than those Fig. 970.—The duodenum and pancreas. The liver has been lifted up and the greater part of the stomach removed. (Testut.) Abdominal ttorin Oatlric arleni Sppvmatic venffls A, B, 0, D. The four portions ot the duodenum. organs. It is long and irregularly prismatic in shape; its right extremity, being broad, is called tlie head, and is connected to the main portion of the