75 SECRETING GLANDS may be lenatheued to a considerable extent, and then coiled up to occupy less space. This constitutes the simple convoluted tubular gland, an example ot which may be seen in the sweat-glands of the skin (fig. 92, c). If instead of a single invagination, secondary mvagmations take place h'om the prhnary one (fig. 92, d and e), the gland is termed a compound one These secondary invaginations may assume either a saccular or tubular torm, and so constitute the two subdivisions—the comfound saccular or raceinose gland, and the compound tubular. The racemose gland in its simplest form consists of a primary invagination which forms a sort of duct, at the extremity of which are found a number of secondary invaginations, called saccules or alveoh, as in Jirunner s (^lands (fig 92 d). But, again, in other mstances, the duct, instead oi being simple, may divide into branches, and these again into other branches, and so on ; each ultimate ramification terminating in a dilated cluster of sacciiles, and thus the secreting surface may be abnost indefinitely extended, as m the salivary glands Fig. 92.—Diagrammatic plan of the varieties of secreting glands. A. Simple gland. B. Sacculated simple gland. C. Simple convoluted tubular gland. P. Compound tubular gland. D, E. Racemose gland. (fig. 92, e). The ducts of the glands are composed of columnar epithelial cells resting on a basement membrane, outside which is a greater or lesser amount of connective tissue, depending on the size of the duct. In some cases small bundles of involuntary muscle fibres are found external to the basement membrane, and these by their contractions help to expel the contained secretion. In the compound tubular glands the division of the primary duct takes place in the same way as in the racemose glands, but the branches retain their tubular form, and do not termi- nate in saccular recesses, but hecome greatly lengthened out (fig. 92, f). The best example of this form of gland is to be found in the kidney. All these varieties of glands are produced by a more or less complicated invagination of a secreting membrane, and they are all identical in structure : that is to say, the saccules or tubes, as the case may be, are lined with cells, generally spheroidal or columnar in shape, and on their outer surfaces are intimate plexuses of capillary vessels. The secretion, whatever it may be, is eliminated by the cells from the blood, and is poured into the saccule or tube, and so finds its way out through the primary