THE SPLEEN 1241 is in relation with the upper part of the outer surface of the left kidney and occasionally with the left suprarenal gland. The upper end is directed inwards, towards the vertebral column, where it lies on a level -\^'ith the eleventh thoracic vertebra. The lower end, sometimes termed the basal surface, is flat, triangular in shape, and rests upon the splenic flexure of the colon and the phreno-colic b'gament, and is generally in contact A\itli the tail of the pancreas. The anterior border is free, sharp, and thin, and is often notched, especially below ; it separates the diaphragmatic from the gastric surface. The posterior border, more rounded and blunter than the anterior, separates the renal from the diaphragmatic surface ; it corresponds to the lower border of the eleventh rib and lies betA^een the Diapliragm and left kidney. The internal border or intermediate margin is the ridge which separates the renal and gastric surfaces. The inferior border separates the diaphragmatic from the basal surface. The spleen is almost entirely surrounded by peritoneum, which is firmly adherent to its capsule. It is held in position by two folds of this membrane. One, the lieno-renal ligament, is derived from the layers of peritoneum forming the greater and lesser sacs, where they come into contact between the left kidney and the spleen ; the splenic vessels pass between its two layers (fig. 926). The other fold, the gastro-splenic omentum, is also formed of two layers, derived from the greater and lesser sacs respectively, where they meet between the spleen and stomach (fig. 926) ; the vasa brevia and left gastro- epiploic branches of the splenic artery run between its two layers. The lower end or basal surface of the spleen is supported by the phreno-colic ligament (see page 1129). The size and weight of the spleen are liable to very extreme variations at different periods of life, in different individuals, and in the same individual under different conditions. In the adult, it is usually about five inches in length, three inches in breadth, and an inch or an inch and a half in thickness, and weighs about seven ounces. Ai birth, its weight, in proportion to the entire body, is almost equal to what is observed in the adult, being as 1 to 350 : while in the adult it varies from 1 to 320 and 400. hi old age, the organ not only diminishes in weight, but decreases considerably in proportion to the entire body, being as 1 to 700. The size of the spleen is increased during and after digestion, and varies according to the state of nutrition of the body, being large in lughly fed, and small in starved animals. In malarial fever it becomes much enlarged, weighing occasionally even from eighteen to twenty pounds. Frequently in the neighbourhood of the spleen, and especially in the gastro- splenic and great omenta, small nodules of splenic tissue may be found, either isolated or connected to the spleen by thin bands of splenic tissue. They are known as supernumerary or accessory spleens. They vary in size from that of a pea to that of a plum. Structure.—The spleen is invested by two coats : an external serous and an internal nbro-elastic coat. The external or serous coal is derived from the peritoneum ; it is thin, smooth, and in the human subject intimately adherent to the fibro-elastic coat. It invests the entire organ, except at the hilus and along the lines of reflection of the lieno-renal ligament and gastro-splenic omentum. The Jibro-elaslic coat invests the organ, and at the hilus is reflected inwards upon the vessels m the form of sheaths. From these sheaths, as well as from the inner surface of the hbro-elastic coat, numerous small fibrous bands, irabeculcB (fig. 1026), are given off in all directions ; these uniting, constitute the framework of the spleen. The spleen therefore consists of a number of small spaces or areola:, formed by the trabecute ; in these areolaa IS contamed the splenic pulp. The fibro-elastic coat, the sheaths of the vessels, and the trabecule, are composed of wmte, and yellow elastic, fibrous tissues, the latter predominating. It is owing to the presence ot the elastic tissue that the spleen possesses a considerable amount of elasticity, wmcn allows of the very great variations in size that it presents under certain cu-cumstances. In addition to these constituents of this tunic, there is found in man a small amount of non-striped muscular fibre; and in some mammaha (e.g. dog, pig, and cat) a large amount, so that the trabecules appear to consist chiefly of muscular tissue. Ihe splenic pulp IS a soft mass of a dark reddish-brown colour, resembhng grumous blood ; It consists of a number of branching cells and of an intercellular substance. The cells are connective-tissue corpu.scles, and are termed the suatentacular or supporting cells OS the pulp. The processes of these cells communicate with each other, thus forming a