THE SALIVARY GLANDS 1111 deep surface of the gland, and runs forAvards and inwards between the Mylo- livoid and the Hyo-glossus and Genio-hyo-glossus muscles, then between the sublincrual gland and tlie Genio-hyo-glossus, and opens by a narrow onhce on the summit of a smaU papUla, at the side of the frenulum Imguse. On the Hyo-glossus muscle it lies between tlie lingual and liypoglossal nerves, but at the anterior border of the muscle it is crossed by the Ungual nerve. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the submaxillary gland are brandies of the facial and lingual. Its veins follow the coiu-se of the arteries Ihe nerves are derived from the submaxillary gangUon, through which it receives fi aments fi-om the chorda tjTiipani of the facial and Ungual branch of the inferior maxillary, sometimes from the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental, and from the sympathetic. Sublingual gland.—The sublingual gland (gl. sublingualis) is the smallest of the salivary glands. It is situated beneath the mucous membrane ot the floor of the mouth, at the side of the frenulum linguai, m contact with the inner surface of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. It is narrow flattened, shaped somewhat like an almond, and weighs about a d^'achm. it is in relation, above, with the mucous membrane ; bdoiv, with the Mylo-hyoid muscle ; in front, \nth the mandible, and its fellow of the opposite side ; behijid, with "the deep part of the submaxillary gland ; and mternalhj, with the Genio-hyo-glossus, from which it is separated by the Imgual nerve and Wharton's duct. Its excretory ducts {ducts of Rivinus) are from eight to twenty in number ; some join Wharton's duct; others open separately into the mouth, on the elevated crest of mucous membrane [plica sublingualis), caused by the projection of the gland, on either side of the frenulum linguae. One or more join to form a tube, which opens into the Whartonian duct : this is called the duct of Bartholin. Vessels and Nerves.—The sublingual gland is suppUed with blood from the sub- lingual and submental arteries. Its nerves are derived from the lingual, the chorda tympani, and the sympathetic. Structure of the salivary glands.—The saUvary glands are compound racemose glands, consistmg of numerous lobes, which are made up of smaller lobules, connected together by dense areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. Each lobule consists of the ramifications of a single duct, the branches terminating m dilated ends or alveoli on which the capillaries are distributed. The alveoli are enclosed by a basement-membrane, which is continuous with the membrana propria of the duct. It presents a peculiar reticulated structure, and consists of a network of branched and flattened nucleated cells. The alveoli of the salivary glands are of two kinds, which differ m the appearance of their secretmg cells, in theh size, and m the nature of theh- secretion. (1) The mucous Fig. 918.—a highly magnified section of the submaxillary gland of the dog, stained wdth carmine. (Kolliker.) rrscent of Gianuzzi Alveolim /i'^'' "^i ,^ "^^ \ variety secretes a viscid fluid, which contains mucin ; (2) the serous variety secretes a thinner and more watery fluid. The sublingual gland consists of mucous, the parotid of serous alveoli. The submaxiUary contains both mucous and serous alveoli, the latter, however, preponderating. The cells in the mucous alveoli are spheroidal in shape, glassy and transparent. The nucleus is usually situated near the basement-membrane, and is flattened. The cells contain a quantity of mucinogen, to which their clear, transparent appearance is due.