ACROMIO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION 403 attached by its apex to a rough impression at the base of the coracoid process, internal to the preceding ; above, by its expanded base, to the conoid tubercle on the under surface of the clavicle, and to a line proceedmg internally from it for half an incli. These ligaments are in relation, in front, with the Subclavius and Deltoid ; behind, with the Trapezius. . ,• j- Movements.—The movements of this articulation are of two kinds: 1. A ghding motion of the articular end of the clavicle on the acromion. 2. Rotation of the scapula forwards and backwards upon the clavicle; the extent of this rotation is hmited by the two portions of the coraco-clavicular ligament, the trapezoid limiting rotation forwards and the conoid backwards. The acromio-clavicular joint has important functions in the movements of the upper extremity. It has been well pointed out by Humphry, that if there liad been no joint between the clavicle and scapula, the circular movement of the scapula on the ribs (as in throwing the shoulders backwards or forwards) would have been attended with a greater alteration in the direction of the shoulder than is consistent with the free use of the arm in such positions, and it would have been impossible to give a blow straight forwards with the full force of the arm ; that is to say, with the combined force of the scapula, arm, and forearm. ' This joint,' as he happily says, 'is so adjusted as to enable either bone to turn in a hiuge-hke manner upon a vertical axis drawn through the other, and it permits the surfaces of the scapula, hke the baskets in a roundabout swing, to look the same way in every position, or nearly so.' Again, when the whole arch formed by the clavicle and scapula rises and falls (in elevation or depression of the shoulders), the joint between these two bones enables the scapula still to maintain its lower part in contact with the ribs. Surface Form.—The position of the acromio-clavicular joint can generally be ascer- tained by defining the slightly enlarged extremity of the outer end of the clavicle, which projects above the level of the acromion process of the scapula. Sometimes this enlargement is so considerable as to form a rounded eminence, which is easily felt. The joint Ues in the plane of a vertical line passing up the middle of the front of the arm. Applied Anatomy. — The acromio-clavicular joint owes its security mainly to the coraco-clavicular hgament, which limits the amount of movement of the outer end of the clavicle either upwards, backwards, or forwards. Owing to the slanting shape of the articular surfaces of this joint, dislocation generally occurs upwards : that is to say, the outer end of the clavicle is displaced above the acromion process of the scapula. The displacement is often incomplete, on account of the strong coraco-clavicular ligaments, which remain untorn. The same difficulty exists, as in the stemo-clavicular dislocation, in maintaining the ends of the bone in position after reduction. LIGAMENTS OF THE SCAPULA The ligaments of the scapula (fig. 450) are : Coraco-acromial, Transverse, and Spmo-glenoid. The Coraco-acromial Ligament (lig. coracoacromiale) is a strong triangular band, extending between the coracoid and acromion processes. It is attached, by its apex, to the summit of the acromion just in front of the articular surface for the clavicle ; and by its broad base to the whole length of the outer border of the coracoid process. Its posterior fibres are directed inwards, its anterior fibres forwards and inwards. This ligament, together with the coracoid and acromion processes, forms a vault for the protection of the head of the humerus. It is in relation, above, with the clavicle and under surface of the Beltoid ; below, with the tendon of the Supraspinatus muscle, a bursa being interposed. Its outer border is continuous with a dense lamina that passes beneath the Deltoid upon the tendons of the Supra- and Infra-spinatus muscles. The ligament is sometimes described as consisting of two marginal bands and a thinner intervening portion, the two bands being attached respec- tively to the apex and base of the coracoid process, and joining together at their attachment into the acromion process. When the Pectoralis minor is inserted, as occasionally is the case, into the capsule of the shoulder-joint nistead of into the coracoid process, it passes between these two bands, and the intervening portion is then deficient. The Transverse or Suprascapular Ligament (lig. transversum scapulae superius) converts the suprascapular notch into a foramen. It is a thin and D D 2