895 THE B\JkA MATER Fig. 757.—The spinal cord and its membranes. corresponds therefore to that of the cranial sinuses between the meningeal and endosteal layei'S of the cranial dura mater. It is attached to the circumference of the foramen magnum, and to the second and third cervical vertebrae ; it is also connected to the posterior common hgament, especially near the lower end of the spinal canal, by fibrous slips ; it extends below as far as the lower border of the second sacral vertebra, where its cavity terminates ; below this level it closely invests the filum terminale and descends to the back of the coccyx, where it blends with the periosteum. The sheath of dura mater is much larger than is necessary for the accommo- dation of its contents, and its size is greater in the cervical and lumbar regions than in the thoracic. Its inner surface is smooth. On each side may be seen the double openings which transmit the two roots of the corresponding spinal nerve, the dura mater being continued in the form of tubular prolongations on them as they pass through the intervertebral foramina. These prolongations are short in the upper part of the spine, but gradually become longer below, form- ing a number of tubes of fibrous membrane, which enclose the lower spinal nerves and are contained in the spinal canal. Structure.—The spinal dura mater resembles in structure the meningeal or supporting layer of the cranial dura mater, consisting of white fibrous and elastic tissue arranged in bands or lamellae which, for the most part, are parallel with one another and have a longitudinal arrangement. Its internal surface is covered by a layer of endothehum, which gives this surface its smooth appearance. It is sparingly supplied with blood-vessels, and some few nerves have been traced into it. Subdural space.—The dura mater is separated from the arachnoid by a potential space, the subdural space. The two membranes are, in fact, in contact with each other, except where they are separated by a minute quantity of fluid, which just serves to keep the two opposing surfaces moist. The Abachnoid Membrane ^v^^- ^'■^chnoid membrane is a dehcate membrane which envelops both the brain and cord, lying between the pia mater internaUy and the dura mater ' cxtGrnciily. The cranial part of the arachnoid invests the brain loosely, and does not .dip mto the sulci between the convolutions, nor into the fissures, with the ■ exception of the longitudinal fissure. On the upper surface of the cerebrum the ; arachnoid is thin and transparent, and may be easily demonstrated by iniectmg 1 a stream of au- beneath it. At the base of the brain the arachnoid is thicker I and shghtly opaque towards the central part where it extends across between the two temporal lobes in front of the pons Varolii, so as to leave a considerable I interval between it and the brain. The spiml part of the arachnoid is a thin, delicate, tubular membrane which loosely invests the cord. Above, it is continuous with the cerebral ; ^^acnnoid ; below. It widens out and invests the cauda equina and the nerves proceeding from this. Its outer surface is in contact mth the inner surface of wie aura mater, but for the most part the membranes are not connected together, tnough here and tliere they may be joined together by isolated connective- wssue trabeculae, which are most numerous on the posterior surface of the cord. J-iie space between the two membranes is the subdural space. ihe arachnoid membrane surrounds the nerves which arise from the brain ; ana spinal cord, and encloses them in loose sheaths as far as their points of exit irom the skuU and spinal canal.