PULMONARY ARTERY 619 The left branch of the pulmonary artery (ramus sinister), shorter and some\\-hat smaller than the riglit, passes horizontally in front of the descending aorta and left bronchus to the root of the left lung, where it divides into two branches for the two lobes of the lung. The root of the left branch of the pulmonary artery is connected to the under surface of the arch of the aorta by a short fibrous cord, the lu/amentum arteriosum ; this is the remains of a foetal vessel, the ductus arteriosus. The terminal brandies of the pulmonary artery will be described with the anatomy of the lung. Ajjplied Anat(m!/.Steno5is of the pulmonary artery, either with, or, more rarely, wthout defective formation of the interventricular septum, is one of the commonest congenital defects of the heart. It may be due either to foetal endocarditis, or to mal- development of the bulbus cordis (p. 140).* As in most forms of congenital heart-disease, the child is cyanosed (morbus coeruleus), especially when excited or on exertion, and rarely lives to grow up, commonly dying of heart-failure in infancy, or of pulmonary tuberculosis or intercurrent disease in childhood. The chief signs of the condition are the loud, harsh systolic cardiac murmur best heard over the second left costal cartilage, cyanosis, clubbing of the finger-tips, and the presence of an excess of red corpuscles in the blood. Embolism of the pulmonary artery by a clot of blood coming from the right side of the heart in patients with heart-disease, or from a thrombosed vein in cases, for example, of influenza, enteric fever, puerperal sepsis, or fi-actured limbs, is a common cause of sudden or rapid death. The patient may cry out wth sudden excruciating pain in the prtecordia when the detached embolus lodges, and after a brief period of intense dyspncea, pallor, and anguish, die. The Aorta The aorta is the main trunk of a series of vessels which convey the oxy- genated blood to the tissues of the body for their nutrition. It commences at the upper part of tlie left ventricle, where it is about 30 mm. in diameter, and after ascending for a short distance, arches backwards, and to the left side, ov-er the root of the left lung ; it then descends within the thorax on the left side of the vertebral column, passes into the abdominal cavity through the aortic opening in the Diaphragm, and terminates, considerably diminished in size (about 17"5 mm. in diameter), opposite the lower border of the fourth lumbar vertebra, by dividing into the right and left common iliac arteries. Hence it is described in several portions, viz. the ascending aorta, the arch of the aorta, and the descending aorta, which-last is again divided into the thoracic and abdominal aortce.. Ascending Aorta The ascending aorta (aorta aseendens) (fig. 672) is about two inches in length. It commences at the upper part of the base of the left ventricle, on a level ■with the lower border of the third costal cartilage behind the left half of the sternum ; it passes obliquely upwards, forwards, and to the right, in the direction of the heart's axis, as high as the upper border of the second right costal cartilage, describing a slight curve in its course, and being situated, when distended, about a quarter of an inch behind the posterior surface of the sternum. At its origin it presents, opposite the segments of the aortic valve, three small dilatations called the sinuses of Valsalva. At the union of the ascending with the transverse part of the aorta the calibre of the vessel is increased, owing to a bulging outwards of its right Avail. This dilatation is termed the great sinus of the aorta (bulbus aortae), and on transverse section presents a somewhat oval figure. The ascending aorta is contained within the pericardium, and is enclosed in a tube of the serous pericardium, common to it and the pulmonary artery. Eelations.—The ascending aorta is covered at its commencement by the trunk of the pulmonary artery and the right auricular appendix, and, higher up, is separated from the sternum by the pericardium, the right pleura, and the anterior margin of the right lung, some loose areolar tissue, and the remains of the thymus gland ; behind, it rests upon the right pulmonary artery and left auricle. On the * Keith (Studies in Pathology, Aberdeen University, 1!)0G) believes that the great majority of cases which are classified as congenital stenosis of the pulmonary or of the aortic orifices are, in reality, due to an arrest of development or malformation of the bulbus cordis.