1189 THE KIDNEYS The second set of branches from the arterial arcades supi)ly the medullary pyramids, which they enter at their bases ; and, jmssing straight through their substance to theu;apices, terminate in the venous plexuses found in that situation. They are called the arUrtoe recice ^^^ThTr'enalvdL arise from three som-oes, viz. the veins beneath the capsule, the plexuses around the convoluted tubules in the cortical arches, and the plexuses situated at tlie apices of the pyramids of Malpighi. The veins beneath the capsule («ewce steUatoe) are stellate in arrangement, and are derived from the capillary network, into which the terminal branches of the interlobular arteries break up. These join to form the venm inlerlobulares, which pass in^vards between the medullary rays, receive branches from the plexuses around the convoluted tubules, and, having arrived at the bases of the Malpighian pyramids, join with the vena3 rectfe, next to be described (figs. 988, 989, h). The vence recice are branches from the plexuses at the apices of the medullary pyramids, formed by the terminations of the arteriai rectffi. They run outwards m a straight course between the tubes of the medullary structure, and joining, as above stated, the vente interlobulares, form venous arcades ; these in turn unite and form veins which pass along the sides of the pyramids (figs. 988, 989, f). These vessels, vence froprice renales, accompany the arteries of the same name, ruruung along the entke length of the sides of the pyramids ; and, having received m then- course the efferent vessels from the Malpighian bodies in the adjacent cortical structui-e, quit the kidney substance to enter the sinus. In this ca\nty they join the corresponding veins from the other pyramids to form the renal vein, which emerges from the Iddney at the hilus and opens into the inferior vena cava ; the left vein is longer than the right, and crosses in front of the abdominal aorta. Nerves of the kidney.—^Tlie nerves of the kidney, although small, are about fifteen in number. They have small gangha developed upon them, and are derived from the renal plexus, which is formed by branches from the solar plexus, the lower and outer part of the semilunar ganglion and aortic plexus, and from the lesser and smallest splanchnic nerves. They communicate with the spermatic plexus, a cu-cumstance which may explain the occurrence of pain in the testicle in affections of the kidney. So far as they have been traced, they seem to accompany the renal artery and its branches, but their exact mode of termination is not known. The lymphatics of the kidney are described on pages 787, 788. Connective tissue, or intertubtilar stroma.— Although the tubules and vessels are closely packed, a small amount of connective tissue, continuous with the capsule, binds them fu-mly together. This tissue was first described by Ludwig and Zawaryldn have observed distinct and Henle has seen them between the Fig. 990.—Diagrammatic representa- tion of the blood-vessels in the sub- stance of the cortex of the kidney. (From Ludwig, in Strieker's ' Hand- book.') l> m Ucgion of the medullary ray. b. Hegion of the tortuous portion of the tubules, ai. Arteria interlobularis. vi. Vena interlobularis. fo. Vas allerens. gl. Glomerulus, vc. Vas efferens. V. Venous twig of tlie interlobularis. Goodsir, and subsequently by Bowman, fibres passing around the Malpighian bodies ; straight tubes composing the medullary structure. Surface Marking.—Thekidneys, being situated at the back part of the abdominal cavity and deeply placed, cannot be felt unless enlarged or misplaced. The greater part of each kidney lies in the epigastric region, i.e. internal to the mid-Poupart plane, but a small part is situated outside this plane, viz. in the hypochondiiac region. The lower end of the left kidney is usually on a level with the subcostal plane : that of the right extends for about half an inch below this plane. The left is somewhat higher than the right. According to Morris, the position of the kidney may be thus defined : Anteriorly. ' 1. A horizontal line through the umbilicus is below the lower edge of each kidney. 2. A vertical hne carried upwards to the costal arch from the middle of Poupart's ligament has one-third of the kidney to its outer side, and two-thkds to its inner side, i.e. between this line and the median line of the body.' In adopting these lines it must be borne in mind that the axes of the kidneys are not vertical, but oblique, and if continued upwards would meet about the ninth thoracic vertebra. Posteriorly. The upper end of the left kidney would be defined by a line di-awn horizontally outwards from the spinous processes of the eleventh thoracic vertebra, and its lower end by a point two inches above the iliac crest. The right kidney would be half to three-quarters of an inch lower. Morris lays down the following iiiles for indicating the position of the kidney on the posterior surface of the body : 1. A line parallel with, and one inch from the vertebral column between the lower edge of the tip of the spinous process