DEVELOPMENT OF THE EAR 133 The sclerotic aud choroid coats of the eyebaU are derived from the mesoderni sunoimdiiig the optic cup. „ , . , , , The eyelids are formed as small cutaneous folds (fig. 166), which at the end of the third month come together and unite in front of the globe and cornea. This union is broken up and the eyeUds separate before the end ot icetai hte. Fig. 173.—Transverse section of the canal of the cochlea of a foetal cat. (After Boefctcher and Ayres.) . Fig. 174.—Tubercles from which the dif- ferent parts of the pinna are developed. (His.) The lachrymal sac and nasal duct result from a thickening of the ectoderm in the groove between the lateral nasal and maxillary processes. This thickening becomes hoUowed out into a chaimel, and the hps of the groove meet over it, and convert it into a duct, which eventually opens into the nasal fossa. The epithehum of the cornea and con- junctiva, and that which hues the ducts and alveoU of the lachrymal gland, are of ectodermal origin, as are also the eye- lashes and the hning cells of the glands which open on the hd-margins. The Ear.—The first rudiment of the internal ear appears shortly after that of the eye, in the form of a thickening of the surface ectoderm over the region of the hind-brain. The thickening is followed by an involution of the ecto- derm to form the auditory pit (fig. 168), which deepens and forms a flask-shaped cavity. The mouth of the flask is then closed, and thus a shut sac, the auditory vesicle, is formed (fig. 169); from it the epithelial hning of the labyrinth is formed. The vesicle becomes pear- shaped ; and the neck of the flask, or recessus labyrinthi, prolonged upwards, forms the ductus endolymphaticus. From the vesicle certain diverticula are given off which form the various parts of the labyrinth. One from the anterior end gradually elongates, and, forming a tube coiled on itself, becomes the membranous canal of the cochlea, the vestibular extremity of which is subsequently constricted to form the oanalis reuniens. Three others appear as disc-hke evaginations on the surface Mandibular arch Maxillary process Eye 1, 2. Tubercles on mandibular arcU. 3. Tubercle above cleft, if, c. Prolongation of 3 downwards. ■!, 5, G. Tubercles on hyoid arch. o.». Auditory vesicle.