ANGIOLOGY 630 The sterno-mastoid branch (ramus steinocleidomastoideus) runs doAvnwards and outwards across tlic sheath of the common carotid artery, and supplies tlie Sterno-mastoid and neighbouring muscles and integument. There is frequently a separate branch from the external carotid distributed to the Sterno-mastoid. The superior laryngeal (a. laryngea superior), larger than cither of the preceding, accompanies the internal laryngeal nerve, beneath the Thyro-hyoid muscle; it pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane, and supplies the muscles, mucous membrane, and glands of the larynx, anastomosing with the branch from the opposite side. The crico-thyroid branch (ramus cricothyreoideus) is small and runs trans- versely across the crico-thyroid membrane, communicatuig with the artery of the opposite side. Applied Anatomy.—The superior thyroid, or one of its branches, is often divided in cases of cut throat, giving rise to considerable hasmorriiage. In such cases, the artery should be secured, the wound being enlarged for that purpose, if necessary. The operation may be easily performed, the artery being very superficial, and the only structures of importance covering it being a few small veins. The operation of tying the superior thyi'oid artery in bronchocele has been performed, but the collateral circulation between this vessel and the artery of the opjsosite side, and the inferior thyroid, is so free that the operation has been given up, especially as better results are obtained by other means. The position of the sterno-mastoid branch is of importance in connection with the operation of ligature of the common carotid artery. It crosses and lies on the sheath of this vessel and may chance to be wounded in opening the sheath. The jJosition of the crico-thyroid branch should be remembered, as it may prove the source of troublesome hsemorrhage during the operation of laryngotomy. 2. The lingual artery (a. lingualis) (fig. 580) arises from the external carotid between the superior thyroid and facial; it fii'st runs obliquely upwards and inwards to the great cornu of the hyoid bone ; it then curves downwards and forwards, forming a looip which is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, and passing beneath the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles it runs horizontally forwards, beneath the Hyo-glossus, and finally, ascending almost perpendicularly to the tongue, turns forwards on its lower surface as far as the tip, under the name of the ranine artery. Eelations.—Its first, or obhque, portion is superficial, being contained within the carotid triangle ; it rests upon the Middle constrictor of the pharynx, and is covered by the Platysma and the fascia of the neck. Its second, or curved, portion also Hes upon the Middle constrictor, being covered at first by the tendon of the Digastric and by the Stylo-hyoid muscle, and afterwards by the Hyo-glossus. Its third, or horizontal, portion lies between the Hyo-glossus and Genio-hyo- glossus muscles. The fourth, or terminal, part, under the name of the ranine, runs along the irnder surface of the tongue to its tip : here it is very superficial, being covered only by the mucous membrane ; above it is the Lingualis inferior, and on the inner side the Genio-hyo-glossus. The hypoglossal nerve crosses the first part of the lingual artery, but is separated from the second part by the Hyo-glossus. " The branches of the lingual artery are : Suprahyoid. Sublmgual. Dorsales linguae. Ranine. The suprahyoid (ramus hyoideus) runs along the upper border of the hyoid bone, suppljang the muscles attached to it and anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side. The dorsales linguae consist usually of two or three small branches which arise beneath the Hyo-glossus muscle ; they ascend to the back part of the dorsum of the tongue, and supply the mucous membrane in this situation, the tonsil, soft palate, and epiglottis anastomosiiig with the vessels of the opposite side. • t 1 TT 1 The sublingual (a. sublinguahs) arises at the anterior margm of the Hyo-glossus muscle, and runs forward between the Genio-hyo-glossus and Mylo-hyoid to the sublingual gland. It supplies the substance of the gland, giving branches to the Mylo-hyoid and neighbouring muscles, and to the mucous membrane of the mouth and gums. One branch runs behind the alveolar process of the mandible in the substance of the gum to anastomose with a similar artery from the other side.