199 VERTEBRAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE point of the coccyx; its concavity is directed downwards and forwards. The thoracic and pelvic curves are termed primary curves because they alone are present during foetal lite, i ne cervical and lumbar curves are com- pensatory or secondary, and are de- veloped after bu-th, the former when the child is able to sit upright and hold up its head, the latter when the child begins to walk. , . i . * If a body be enveloped m plaster ot Paris and divided in the median plane it will be found, as pointed out by Humphry, that a plumb-Une di-opped from the middle of the odontoid pro- cess of the axis will pass through the middle of the bodies of the second and twelfth thoracic vertebrae, thi-ough the middle and antero-inferior edge of the last lumbar, and Mill bisect a Une drawn transversely through the heads of the thigh bones. It is known from ex- periment that the Une of gravity of the head passes through the middle of the odontoid process ; it therefore follows that this Une passes through the points of confluence of the three superior curves of the vertebral column and through a Une joining the heads of the thigh bones, so that the weight of the skuU and its contents is directly transmitted to the pelvis and lower extremities when the body is in the erect position. The vertebral column has also a sUght lateral curvature, the convexity of which is directed towards the right side. This, as Bichat first explained, may be produced by muscular action, most persons using the right arm in preference to the left, especiaUy in making long-continued efforts, when the body is curved to the right side. In support of this explanation it has been found, by Beclard, that in one or two individuals who were left-handed, the lateral curvature was directed to the left side. Others regard this curvature as being produced by the aortic arch and upper part of the descending thoracic aorta—a view which is sup- ported by the fact that in cases where the viscera are transposed and the aorta is on the right side, the con- vexity of the lateral curvature is directed to the left side. Anterior surface.—Viewed from in front, the width of the bodies of the vertebrae wiU be seen to increase from the second cervical to the first thoracic; there is then a slight diminution in the next tliree vertebrae ; below this there Fig. 271.—Lateral view of the vertebral column. 1st cervical or Atlas 'Md cervical or Axis 1st thoracic 1st lumbar 4-