SPLANCHNOLOGY 1110 teinporo-inaxillary vein ; in tlie lower part of the gland this vein splits into anterior and posterior divisions. Tlio anterior division emerges from the gland to join the facial vein; the posterior unites in the gland with tlie posterior auricular to form the external jugular vein. On a still more superficial plane is the facial nerve, the branches of which emerge at the ujiper and anterior borders of the gland. Branches of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland to join the facial, wiiile the auriculo-temporal branch of tlie inferior maxillary nerve issues from the upper part of the gland. The duct of the parotid gland, or Stenson's duct (ductus parotideus), is about two inches and a half in length. It commences by numerous branches from the anterior part of tlie gland, crosses the Masseter muscle, and at its anterior border turns inwards nearly at a right angle and passes into the substance of the Buccinator muscle, which it pierces ; it then runs for a short distance obliquely forwards Tjetween the Buccinator and mucous membrane of the mouth, and opens upon the inner surface of the cheek by a small orifice, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. While crossing the Masseter it receives the duct of socia parotidis ; in this position it has the transverse facial artery above it and some branches of the facial nerve below it. structure.—The parotid duct is dense, its wall being of considerable thickness; its canal is about the size of a crow-quill, but at its orifice on the inner aspect of the cheek its lumen is greatly reduced in size. It consists of a thick external fibrous coat which contains contractile fibres, and of an internal or mucous coat lined with short columnar epithelium. Surface Form.—The dii-ection of the duct corresponds to a line drawn across the face about a finger's breadth below the zygoma^that is, from the lower margin of the concha to midway between the red margin of the upper lip and the ala of the nose. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the parotid gland are derived from the external carotid, and from the branches given off by that vessel in or near its substance. The veins empty themselves into the external jugular, thi'ough some of its tributanes. The lymphatics terminate in the superficial and deep cervical glands, pa.ssing m then- com-se through two or thiee Ivmphatic glands, placed on the siu-face and m the substance of the parotid. The nerves are derived from the plexus of the sympathetic on the external carotid artery, the facial, the auriculo-temporal, and the great aui-icular nerves. It is probable that the branch from the auriculo-temporal nerve is derived from the glosso-pharyngeal through the otic gangUon. At all events, in some of the lower animals this has been proved experimentally to be the case. Submaxillary gland.—The submaxillary gland (gl. submaxillaris) is irregular in form and about the size of a walnut. A considerable part of it is situated in the submaxillary triangle, reaching forwards to the anterior beUy of the Digastric and backwards to the stylo-hyoid ligament, which intervenes between it and the parotid gland. Above, it extends under cover of the body of the mandible ; below, it usuaUy overlaps the hitermediate tendon of the Digastric and the insertion of the Stylo-hyoid, while from its deep surface a torigue-like deep process extends forwards and inwards above the Mylo-hyoid ^"^^Its's^lperficial surface consists of an upper and a lower part. The upper part is directed outwards, and lies against the submaxillary fossa^on the inner Surface of the body of the mandible. The loiver part is directed do^^•n^^■ards and outwards, and is covered by the skin, superficial f^'^'fl^^yfj'^'f X deep cervical fascia ; it is crossed by the facial vein and fil'-vnient^^^ facial nerve; in contact Avith it, near the mandible, are the submaxillaix lympluatic gands^^^^ is in relation with the Mylo-hyoid, Hyo-glossus, Styl.^- clossus, Stvlo-hyoid, and posterior belly of the Digastric ; in contact with it Sre the mylo-hyoid nerve and the mylo-hyoid and submental vessels The facial artery is imbedded in a groove in the posterior bordei of the ^^''"rhe deep process of the gland extends forv-ards and ""^"[d^'j^^;^'';';;;^!;; Mvlo-hvoid below and externally, and tiie Hyo-glos,sus and Stylo-glossus Xnaiiy; above it, is the lingual nerve; below it, the hypoglossal nene and the ranine vein. Tiru-,^4-^„'c rlnrf Mnotus The duct of the submaxillary gland, or ^Vharton s due ductu submaxillaris) is about two inches in length, and its ^ than that of the parotid duct. It begins by numerous blanches fiom