57 THE- VASCULAR SYSTEM mammals a few vessels have been traced into the middle coat. Minnte veins serve to return the blood from these vessels ; they empty themselves into the \-ein or veins accompanying the artery. Lymphatic vessels are also present in the outer coat. Arteries are also suppUed with nerves, which are derived from the sympathetic, l)ut may pass through the cerebro-spinal nerves. They form intricate plexuses upon the surfaces of the larger tnmks, and run along the smaller arteries as single filaments, or bundles of filaments which twist around the vessel and unite with each other in a plexiform manner. The branches derived from these plexuses penetrate the external coat and are distributed principally to the mu.scular tissue of the middle coat, and thus regulate, by causing the contraction and relaxation of this tissue, the amount of blood sent to any part. The capillaries.—The smaller arterial branches (excepting those of the cavernous structure of the sexual organs, of the spleen, and of the placenta) Fig. 75.—Section of a medium-sized artery. (After Griinstein. Enilofhelial and siih- cndoihelinl layer of <^-v inner coa t ic lai/er most layers of ■middle coat _ Outermost layers of middle coat _Tnncrmosl part of outencoat , Outermost jiart of ' outer coat terminate in networks of vessels which pervade nearly every tissue of the body. These vessels, from theu' minute size, are termed capillaries. They arc interposed between the smallest branches of the arteries and the commencing veins, consti- tuting a network, the branches of which maintain the same diameter throughout; the meshes of the network are more uniform in shape and size than those formed by the anastomoses of the small arteries and veins. The diameters of the capillaries vary in the different tissues of the body, the usual size being about 3„'„,y of an inch. The smallest are those of the brain and the mucous membrane of the intestines ; and the largest those of the skm and the marrow of bone, where they are stated to be as large as , o',, o of an inch in diameter. The form of the capillary net varies in the different tissues, the meshes being generally rounded or elongated. The rounded form of mesh is most common, and prevails where there is a dense network, as in the lungs, in most glands and mucous membranes, and in the cutis ; the meshes are not of an absolutely circular outline, but more or less angular, sometimes nearly quadrangular, or polygonal, or more often irregular.