THE SALIVARY GLANDS 1113 fold, the frenulum linguw, by which this organ is connected to the sympliysis nienti. Occasionally it is found that this frenulum is rather shorter than natui-al, and, acting as a bridle, prevents the complete protrusion of the tongue. When this condition exists and an attempt is made to protrude the organ, the tip will be seen to remain buried in the floor of the mouth, and the dorsum of the tongue is rendered very convex, and more or less extruded from the mouth ; at the same time a deep furrow will be noticed to appear in the middle line of the anterior part of the dorsum. Sometimes, a little external to the frenulum, the ranine vein may be seen immediately beneath the mucous membrane. The corresponding artery, being more deeply placed, does not come into view, nor can its pulsation be felt with the finger! On either side of the frenulum, in the floor of the mouth, is a longitudinal elevation or ridge, produced by the projection of the sublingual gland, which lies immediately beneath the mucous membrane. Close to the attachment of the frenulum to the tip of the tongue may be seen on either side the slit-like orifice of Wharton's duct, into which a fine probe may be passed without much difficulty. In the middle line, both of the upper and lower lip, small folds of mucous membrane pass from the lip to the bone, constituting the frenula ; these are not so large as the frenulum lingua;. By pulling outwards the angle of the mouth the mucous membrane lining the cheeks can be seen, and on it may be perceived a little papilla which marks the position of the orifice of Stenson's duct—the duct of the parotid gland. The exact position of the oi-ifice of the duct is opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The intro- duction of a probe into this duct is attended with considerable difficulty. At the back of the mouth is seen the isthmus of the fauces, or, as it is popularly called, ' the throat': this is the space between the pillars of the fauces on either side, and is the means by which the mouth communicates with the pharynx. Above, it is bounded by the soft palate, the anterior surface of which is concave and covered wth mucous membrane which is continuous with that lining the roof of the mouth. Projecting downwards from the middle of its lower border is a conical projection, the uvula. On either side of the isthmus of the fauces are the anterior and posterior pillars, foi-med by the Palato-glossus and Palato-pharyngeus muscles resjiectively, covered by mucous membrane. Between the two pillars on either side is situated the tonsil. When the mouth is wide open a prominent tense fold of mucous membrane may be seen and felt extending upwards and backwards from the position of the fang of the last molar tooth to the posterior part of the hard palate. This is caused by the pterygo- mandibular hgament which is attached by one extremity to the apex of the internal pterygoid plate, and by the other to the posterior extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw. It intervenes between the Buccinator and the Superior constrictor of the pharynx. The fang of the last molar tooth indicates the position of the Ungual (gustatory) nerve, where it is easily accessible, and can wdth readiness be divided in cases of cancer of the tongue (see page 920). On the inner side of the last molar tooth one can feel the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone, around which the tendon of the Tensor palati jjlays. About one-third of an inch in front of the hamular process and the same distance directly inwards from the last molar tooth is the situation of the opening of the posterior jjalatine canal, through which emerges the posterior or descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery, and one of the descending palatine nerves from Meckel's ganglion. The exact position of the opening on the subject may be ascertained by driving a needle through the tissues of the palate in this situation, when it will be at once felt to enter the canal. The artery emerging from the oijening runs forwards in a groove in the bone, just internal to the alveolar border of the hard palate, and may be wounded in the operation for the cure of cleft palate. Under these circum- stances the palatine canal may requii'e plugging. By introducing the finger into the mouth the anterior border of the coronoid process of tlie jaw can be felt, and is especially prominent when the jaw is dislocated. By throwing the head well back a considerable portion of the posterior wall of the pharynx may be seen through the isthmus faucium, and on introducing the finger the anterior surface of the bodies of the upper cervical vertebra} may be felt immediately beneath the thin muscular stratum foi-mmg the wall of the pharynx. The finger can be hooked round the posterior border of the soft palate, and, by turning it forwards, the posterior nares, separated by the septum, can be felt, or the presence of any adenoid or other growths in the naso-pharynx ascertained. Applied Aiuilomy.—The parotid glands, and much less often the other salivary glands, are liable to an acute infectious inflammation, known in the case of tlie parotid as mumps. The affected glands swell up, becoming tense, tender, and painful; much pain is felt when swallo^^•ing or mastication is attempted, and salivation may or may not occur. The inflammation goes down after a few days ; suppui-ation in the affected glands is very rare. The Pharynx The pharynx is that part of the alimentary canal whicli is ijlaced behind the nose, mouth, and larynx. It is a musculo-membranous tube, somewhat conical in form, with the base ui3wards, and the apex do\vnA\-ards, extending