1087 APPLIED ANATOMY OF THE LUNGS wards, and then taking a bend downwards \vith a sUglit inclination outwards to the apex of the heart, and thence to tlie sixth costo-chondral articulation. The direction of the anterior border of this part of the left lung is denoted with sufficient accui;acy by a cm-ved line vdth its convexity directed upwards and outwards from the articulation of the fourth ri^rh't costal cartUage of the sternum to the fiftli intercostal space, an inch and a half below, and three-quarters of an inch internal to the left nipple. The continuation of the anterior border of the right lung is marked by a prolongation of its hne from the level of the fourth costal cartilages vertically downwards as far as the sixth, when it slopes ofl along the line of the sixth costal cartilage to its articulation with the rib. After expu-ation the lower border of the lung may be marked out by a slightly cm-ved line with its convexity downwards, from the articulation of the sixth costal cartilage with its rib to the spinous process of the tenth thoracic vertebra. If vertical Imes are diuwn downwards from the nipple, the mid-axillary hne, and the apex of the scapula, whUe the arms are raised from the sides, they should intersect this convex line, the first at the sixth, the second at the eighth, and the third at the tenth rib. It will thus be seen that the pleura extends farther down than the lung, so that it may be wounded, and a wound pass through both layers into the Diaphragm, and even injure the abdominal viscera, without the lung being involved. ,. , , ^, , i t The posterior border of the lung is indicated by a hne drawn from the level ot the spmous process of the seventh cervical vertebra, down either side of the vertebral column, corresponding to the costo-vertebral joints as low as the spinous process of the tenth thoracic vertebra. The trachea bifurcates opposite the spinous process of the fourth thoracic vertebra, and from this point the two bronchi are directed do\TOwards and outwards. The position of the oblique fissure in each lung may be uidicated by a hne drawn from the second thoracic spine round the side of the chest to the sixth rib in the nipple line. The horizontal fissure in the right lung is indicated by a line drawn from the preceding, where it bisects the mid-axillary line, to the junction of the fourth costal cartilage with the sternum. Applied Anatomy.—The lungs may be wounded or torn in three ways : (1) by com- pression of the chest, without any injury to the ribs; (2) by a fractured rib penetrating the lung; (3) by stabs, gunshot wounds, &c. The &-st form, where the lung is ruptured by external compression without any fracture of the ribs, is very rare, and usually occurs in young children, and affects the root of the lung, i.e. the most fixed part, and thus, implicating the great vessels, is frequently fatal. It would seem a priori a most unusual injury, and its exact mode of causation is difficult to interpret. In the second variety, when the wound in the lung is produced by the penetration of a broken rib, both the pleura costalis and pleura pulmonalis must necessarily be injured, and consequently the air taken into the wounded air-sacs may find its way through these wounds into the cellular tissue of the parietes of the chest, producing surgical emphysema. This it may do without collecting in the pleural cavity ; the two layers of the pleura are so intimately in contact that the au' passes straight through from the wounded lung into the subcutaneous tissue. Emphysema constitutes therefore the most important sign of injury to the lung in cases of fracture of the ribs. Pneumothorax, or air in the pleural cavity, is much more likely to occur in injuries of the third variety—that is to say, from external wounds, from stabs, gunshot injuries, and such like—in which case air passes either from the wound of the lung or from the external wound into the cavity of the plem-a during the resph-atory movements. In these cases there is generally no emphysema of the subcutaneous tissue \inless the external wound is small and valvular, so that the air is di'awn into the woimd during inspiration, and then forced into the cellular tissue around during expiration because it cannot escape from the external wound. Occasionally in wounds of the parietes of the chest no air finds its way into the cavity of the pleura, because the lung at the time of the accident protrudes through the wound and blocks the opening. This takes place where the wound is large, and constitutes one form of hernia of the lung. Another form of hernia of the lung occurs, though very rarely, after wounds of the chest-wall, when the wound has healed and the cicatrix subsequently yields from the pressure of the viscus behind. It forms a globular, elastic, crepitating swelling, which enlarges during expiratory efforts, falls in during inspiration, and disappears on holding the breath. An incision into the lung is occasionally required in cases of abscess the result of pneu- monia or the presence of a foreign body, and from an abscess in the liver which has made its way through the Diaplu-agm into the lung substance, and also in cases of hydatid disease. In these cases there is always risk of haemorrhage, and it has been recommended that the lung tissue should be penetrated by the actual cautery, rather than with the knife. Unless adhesions have formed between the two layers of the pleura, the pleural cavity must necessarily be opened, and there is the further risk of pneumothorax, and possibly of septic infection. It is therefore advisable to suture the lung to the opening in the thoracic wall, and wait for adhesions to form before perforating the lung. The routine methods of physical examination—inspection, palpation, percussion, and auscultation—are nowhere more important than they are in the diagnosis of diseases of