247 aiAXILL.'E Ossification—The maxilla begins to ossify at a very early period, and ossifica- tion proceeds in it with such rapidity that it is difficult to ascertain with certainty its precise number of centres. It appears probable, however, that it is ossified from six centres, which are deposited in membrane. One, the orbilo-nasal forms that portion of the body of the bone which Hes internal to the infra-orbital canal including the inner part of the floor of the orbit and the outer wall ot the nasal fossa ; a second, the malar or zygomatic, gives origin to the portion which hes external to the infra-orbital canal, including the zygomatic process; from a third, the palatine, is developed the palatal process posterior to Stenson s canal together with the adjoining part of the nasal wall; a fourth, the pre- maxillary, forms the front part of the alveolus which carries the incisor teeth and corresponds to the premaxilla of the lower vertebrates ;* a fifth, the nasal, gives rise to the frontal process and the portion above the canine tooth ; and a sixth, the infravomerine, hes between the palatine and premaxillary centres and beneath the vomer; this centre, together with the corresponding centre of the opposite bone, separates the foramina of Stenson from each other. These various Fig. 316.—The maxilla at birth. AOTBMOR SOTFACE INPERIOR SURPAOB centres appear about the eighth week, and by the tenth week the bone consists of two portions, one the maxilla proper, and the other the premaxilla. The suture between these two portions persists on the palate till middle Hfe, but is not to be seen on the facial surface. This is beheved by Callender to be due to the fact that the front wall of the sockets of the incisor teeth is not formed by the premaxillary bone, but by an outgrowth from the facial part of the maxilla proper. The antrum is developed at an earlier period than any of the other accessory nasal sinuses ; it appears as a shallow groove on the inner surface of the bone about the fourth month of fcetal Ufe, but does not reach its full size until after the second dentition. The sockets for the teeth are formed by the downward growth of two plates from the dental groove, and by the subsequent development of partitions jutting across from the one to the other. Articulations.—The maxilla articulates with nine bones : two of the cranium, the frontal and ethmoid, and seven of the face—viz. the nasal, malar, lachrymal, inferior turbinated, palate, vomer, and its fellow of the opposite side. Sometimes it articulates with the orbital plate, and sometimes with the external pterygoid plate of the sphenoid. Changes produced in the Maxilla by Age At birth the transverse and antero-posterior diameters of the bone are each greater than the vertical. The frontal process is well marked and the body of the bone consists of little more than the alveolar process, while the teeth-sockets reach almost to the floor of the orbit. The antrum of Highmore presents the appearance of a sUt-Uke fuiTow on the outer wall of the nose. In the adult the vertical diameter is the greater, owing to the development of the alveolar process and the increase in size of the antrum. In old age the bone reverts in some measure to the infantile condition: its height is diminished, and after the loss of the teeth the alveolar process is absorbed, and the lower part of the bone contracted and diminished in thickness. The Lachkymal Bones The Lachrymal Bone (os lacrimale), the smallest and most fragile bone of the face, is situated at the front part of the inner wall of the orbit (fig. 310). * Some anatomists believe that the premaxillary bone is ossified by two centres (see page 285).