OSTEOLOGY 264 broad ; its outer surface forms the inner boundary of the zygomatic fossa, and affords attachment to the External pterygoid. Beliind the nasal fossae in the middle line is the basilar portion ot the occipital bone, presenting near its centre the pharyngeal Ivberde for the attach- ment of the fibroiis raphe of the pharynx, with depressions on either side for the insertions of the Recti capitis antici major and minor. At the base of the external pterygoid plate is the foramen ovale, for the transmission of the third division of the fifth nerve, tlie small meningeal artery, and sometimes the small superficial petrosal nerve ; behind tliis, Hxe foramen spinosum which transmits the middle meningeal artery and veins, and the prominent spinous process of the sphenoid, which gives attachment to the spheno-mandibular ligament and the Tensor palati. External to the spinous process is the glenoid fossa, divided into two parts by the Glaserian fissure ; the anterior portion, concave, smooth, bounded in front by the emineniia articularis, serves for the articulation of the condyle of tlie lower jaw ; the posterior portion, rough and bound'd behind by the tympanic plate, is occupied by a part of the parotid gland. Emerging from between the laminae of the vaginal process of the tympanic plate is the styloid process ; and at the base of this process is the stylo-mastoid foramen, for the exit of the facial nerve, and entrance of the stylo-mastoid artery. External to the stylo-mastoid foramen, between the tympanic plate and the mastoid process, is the auricular fissure,ioT the auricular branch of the pneumogastric. Upon the inner side of the mastoid process is the digastric fossa, and a little more internally, the occipital groove for the occipital artery. At the base of the internal pterygoid plate is a large and somewhat triangular aperture, the foramen laceriim medium, bounded in front by the greater wing of the sphenoid, behind by the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and internally by the body of the sphenoid and basilar portion of the occipital bone ; it presents ia front the posterior orifice of the Vidian canal; behind, the aperture of the carotid canal. The basilar surface of this opening is filled up in the recent state by a fibro-cartilagmous plate, across the upper or cerebral surface of which the internal carotid artery passes. External to this aperture is a groove, the sulcus tubes audiiivce, between the petrous part of the temporal and the greater wing of the sphenoid. This sulcus is directed outwards and backwards from the root of the internal pterygoid plate and lodges the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube; it is continuous behind with the canal in the temporal bone which forms the bony part of the same tube. At the bottom of this sulcus is a narrow cleft, the fissura petro- squamosa, which is occupied, in the recent condition, by a plate of cartilage, the bones bounding the fissure being united by a synchondi'osis. Behmd this suture is the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, present- mg, near its apex, the quadrilateral rough surface, part of which affords attach- ment to the Levator palati muscle; to the outer side of this surface is the oriface of the carotid canal, and to its inner side, the depression leading to the aquoeductus cochlece, the former transmitting the internal carotid artery and the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, the latter serving for the passage of a vein from the cochlea. Behind the carotid canal is a large aperture, the jugular foramen, formed in front by the petrous portion of the temporal, and behind "by the occipital; it is generally larger on the right than on the left side, and is partly subdivided into three compartments. The anterior compartment transmits the mf erior petrosal sinus; the middle, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo- gastric, and spinal accessory nerves ; the posterior, the lateral smus and some meningeal branches from the occipital and ascending pharyngeal arteries. On the ridge of bone dividing the carotid canal from the jugular foramen is the small foramen for'Jacobson's nerve (tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyn- geal) ; and on the wall of the jugular foramen, near the root of the styloid process, is the small aperture for Arnold's nerve (auricular brancli of the pneumogastric). Extending forwards from the jugular foramen to the foramen lacerum medium is the fissura petro-occipitalis, which is occupied, in the recent state, by a plate of cartilage. Behind the basUar ]Jortion of the occipital bone is the foramen magnum, bounded laterally by the occipital condjdes Avliich are rough internally for the attachment of the check or odontoid hgaments. External to each condyle is the jugular process, which gives attachment to the Rectus capitis laterahs muscle and the lateral occipito-atlantal hgament. Tlie foramen