SPLAJSOHNOLOGY 1226 continuous externall.y with the fibrous tissue wliicli surrounds the pelvic ijlood-vesselft. (Consult a note on the lateral lixation ol' the uterus by Ella G. A. Ovenden, ' Journal oi Anatomy and Physiology,' vol. xli., part iv., ]). 308.) The I'orni, size, and situation of the uterus vary at different periods of life and under dilTorent eircunistances. In the Jailus the uterus is contained in the abdominal cavity, piojecting beyond the brim of the pelvis (fig. 1017). The cervix is considerably larger than the body. At puharty the uterus is pyiuform in shajie, and weighs from eight to ten drachms. It has descended into the pelvis, the fundus being just below the level of the brim of this cavity. The arbor vitaj is distinct, and extends to the upper part of the cavity of the organ. The position of the uterus in the adult is liable to considei'able variation, depending chiefly on the condition of the bladder and rectum. When the bladder is empty the entire uterus is directed forwards, and is at the same time bent on itself at the junction of the body and cervix, so that the body lies upon the bladdei-. As the latter fills, the uterus gradually becomes more and more erect, until \vith a fully distended bladder the fundus may be directed backwards towards the sacrum. Fig. 1016.—The arteries of the internal organs of generation of the female, seen from behind. (After Hyrtl.) During menstruation the organ is enlarged, and more vasculai', its surfaces rounder : the OS externum is rounded, its labia swollen, and the hning membrane of the body thickened, softer, and of a darker coloiu-. According to Sir J. ^^"iIliams, at each recurrence of menstruation, a molecular disintegration of the mucous membrane takes place, which leads to its complete removal, only the bases of the glands imbedded in the muscle being left. At the cessation of menstruation, by a proliferation of the remaining structures, a fresh mucous membrane is formed. During pregnancy the uterus becomes enormously enlarged, and in the eighth uionth reaches the epigastric region. The increase in size is partly due to growth of pre-existing muscle, and partly to development of new fibres. After ■partvrilion the uterus nearly regains its usual size, weighing about an ounce and a half; but its cavity is larger than in the virgin state, its vessels are tortuous, and its muscular layers are more defined ; the external orifice is more marked, and its edges present one or more fissures. In old age the uterus becomes atrojAied, and paler and denser in texture; a more distinct constriction separates the body and cervix. Qlic ostium internum is frequently, and the ostium externum occasionally, obliterated, wliile the labia almost entirely disappear. Structure.—The uterus is composed of three coats : an external or serous coat, a middle or muscular coat, and an internal or mucous coat.