408 SYNDESMOLOGY frequently dislocated than any other joint in the body. Dislocation occurs when the arm is abducted, and when, therefore, the head of the humerus presses against the lower and front part of the capsule, which is the thinnest and least supported part of the ligament. The rent in the capsule almost invariably takes place in this situation, and through it tlie head of the bono escapes, so that tlie dislocation in most instances is primarily aubglenoid. The head of the bone does not usually remain in this situation, between the tendons of the Subscapularis and the Triceps, but generally assumes some other position, which varies according to the direction and amount of force producing the dislocation and the relative strength of the muscles in front of and behind the joint. As the muscles at the back are stronger than those in front, and especially since the long head of the Triceps prevents the bone from passing backwards, dislocation forwards is much more common than backwards. The most frequent position which the head of the humerus ultimately assumes is on the front of the neck of the scapula, beneath the coracoid process, and hence named subcoracoid. Fig. 452.-—Left elbow-joint, showing Fig. 453.—Left elbow-joLnt, showing anterior and internal ligaments. posterior and external ligaments. front of the chest, beneath the clavicle (sub- clavicular). Sometimes it remains in the position in which it was primarily displaced, resting on the axillary border of tlie scapula (subglenoid), and rarely it passes back- wards and remains in the infraspinous fossn, beneath the spine (subspinous). The shoulder-joint may be the seat of any of those inflammatory affections, either acute or chronic, which attack joints, though perliaps less frequently than some other articu- lations of equal size and importance. Acute synovitis may result frojn injury, rheumatism, or pya;mia, or may follow secoiidarily on acute eijiphj'sitis in infants. It is attended with effusion into the joint, and when this occurs the capsule is evenly distended, and the contour of tlie joint rounded. Special projections may occur at the sites of the ojjenings in the capsular ligament. Thus a swelling may appear just in front of the joint, internal to the lesser tuberosity, from effusion into the bursa beneath the Subscapularis : or. again, a swelling which is sometimes bilobed may be seen in the interval between the Deltoid and Pectoralis major, from effusion into the diverticulum Avliieh runs doAvn the bicipital groove with the tendon of the Biceps. The effusion into the synovial cavity can be best