BASILAR ARTERY 661 The posterior inferior cerebellar (a. cerebelli inferior posterior) (fig. 582), the hxrgest branch of the vertebral, winds backwards round the upper part of the medulla oblongata, passing between the origins of the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves, over the restiform body to the under surface of the cerebellum, where it di\ades into two branches. The internal branch is continued backwards to the notch between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum; while the external suppUes the under surface of the cerebellum, as far as its outer border, where it anastomoses with the anterior inferior cerebellar and the superior cerebellar branches of the basilar artery. Branches fi-om this artery supply the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. The bulbar arteries are several minute vessels which spring from the vertebral and its branches and are distributed to the medulla oblongata. The basilar arteiy (a. basilaris) (fig. 582), so named from its position at the base of the skull, is a single trunk formed by the junction of the two vertebral arteries ; it extends from the posterior to the anterior border of the pons Varolii, lying in its median groove, under cover of the arachnoid. It ends by di^^ding into the two posterior cerebral arteries. Its branches, on either side, are the following : The transverse branches (rami ad pontem) are a number of small vessels which come off at right angles on either side of the basilar artery and supply the pons Varolii and adjacent parts of the brain. The auditory (a. auditiva interna), a long slender branch, arises from near the middle of the artery; it accompanies the corresponding auditory nerve into the internal auditory meatus, and is distributed to the internal ear. The anterior inferior cerebellar (a. cerebelli inferior anterior) passes back- wards, to be distributed to the anterior part of the uiider surface of the cerebellum, anastomosing with the posterior inferior cerebellar branch of the vertebral. The superior cerebellar (a. cerebelli superior) arises near the termination of the basilar. It passes outwards, immediately behind the third nerve, which separates it from the posterior cerebral artery, winds round the crus cerebri, close to the fourth nerve, and, arriving at the upper sirrface of the cerebellum, divides into branches which ramify in the pia mater and anastomose with the branches of the inferior cerebellar artery. Several branches are given to the pineal gland, the valve of Vieussens, and the velum interpositum. The posterior cerebral (a. cerebri posterior) is larger than the preceding, from which it is separated near its origin by the third nerve. Passing outwards, parallel to the superior cerebellar artery, and receiving the posterior communi- cating from the internal carotid, it winds round the crus cerebri, and reaches the mider surface of the occipital lobe of the cerebrum, where it breaks up into branches for the supply of the temporal and occipital lobes. The branches of the posterior cerebral artery are divided into two sets, ganglionic and cortical : Ganglionic.—The fostero-median ganglionic branches (fig. 582) are a group of small arteries which arise at the commencement of the posterior cerebral artery : these, viith similar branches from the posterior communicating, pierce the posterior perforated space, and supply the internal surfaces of the thalami and the walls of the third ventricle. The posterior choroidal branches enter the interior of the brain beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum, and supply the velum interpositum and the choroid plexus. The postero-laleral ganglionic branches are small arteries which arise from the posterior cerebral artery after it has turned roimd the crus cerebri ; they supply a considerable portion of the thalamus. Cortical.—The cortical branches are : the anterior temporal, distributed to the anterior parts of the uncinate and occipito-temporal gyii ; the posterior temporal, Transverse. Auditory. Anterior inferior cerebellar. Superior cerebellar. Posterior cerebral. (Postero-median. Ganglionic - Posterior choroidal. (Postero-lateral. Parieto-occipital.