859 THE FRONTAL LOBE and ascending limbs of the fissure of Sylvius into three parts, viz.: (1) the pars orbitalis, below the anterior limb of the fissure; (2) the pars triangularis ('cap' of Broca), between the two limbs ; and (3) the pars basilaris, behind the ascending limb. The left inferior frontal convolution is, as a rule, more highly developed than the right, and is named the convohdion of Broca, from the fact that in 1861 Broca discovered that it was the centre for speech. The %mder or orbital surface of the frontal lobe is concave, and rests on the orbital plate of the frontal bone (fig. 728). It is divided into four convolutions (gyri orbitales) by a well-marked H-shaped sulcus, the sulcus orbitalis. These are named, from their position, the internal, anterior, external, and posterior orbital convohitions. The internal orbital convolution presents a well-marked antero-posterior groove or sulcus, the sulcus olfactorius, for the oKactory tract ; the portion internal to this is named the gyrus recttis, and is continuous Avith the marginal gyrus on the mesial surface. The mesial or internal surface of the frontal lobe is occupied by a single curved convolution, which from its situation is termed the marginal gyrus (fig. 729). It commences in front of the anterior perforated space, runs along the margin of the longitudinal fissure on the mesial surface of the orbital Fig. 729.—Mesial surface of left cerebral hemisphere. lobe, where it is continuous with the internal orbital convolution ; it then ascends, and runs backwards to the point where the calloso-raarginal fissure turns up\vards to reach the superior border of the hemisphere. Tlie posterior part of this convolution is sometimes marked off by a vertical fissure, and is distinguished as the paracentral lobule (lobulus paracentralis), because it is continuous with those convolutions Maiich lie immediately in front of and oehmd the central fissure or fissure of Rolando. Parietal lobe.—The parietal lobe (lobus parietalis) forms a part of both the outer and mesial surfaces of the hemisphere. It is separated from tlie frontal lobe by the fissure of Rolando, but its boundaries below and behind are not so definite. Posteriorly, it is limited by the external parieto-occipital fissure, and by a line carried across tlie hemisphere from the outer end of this fissure towards tlie preoccipital notch. Below, it is separated from the temporal lobe oy the posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and by a line carried backwards irom the horizontal part of this fissure to meet the Une passing do\A nwards to the pre-occipital notch. The outer surface of the parietal lobe (fig. 727) is cleft bv a \\'eU-marked furro^-, mtrajmnetal sulcus of Turner, which consists of an ofjlique and a horizontal hpl u ■^'^^ oblique part is named the sulcus postcentralis, and commences oeiow, about midway between the lower end of the fissure of Rolando and the