470 MYOLOGY Relations.—By Its external surface it is in relation with the ramus of the lower iaw the internal maxillary artery, which crosses it,* the tendon of the Temporal muscle and the Masseter. Its internal surface rests against the upper part of the Internal ptervKoid the internal lateral ligament, the middle meningeal artery, and the inferior maxillary nerve • by its upper border it is in relation with the temporal and masseteric branches of the interior maxillary nerve ; by its lower border it is in relation with the inferior dental and lingual nerves. Through the interval between the two portions of the muscle, the buccal nerve emerges and the internal maxillary artery passes, when the trunk of this vessel lies on the lower part of the muscle (see fig. 488). Pterygoideus internusis a thick, quadrilateral muscle, and resembles the Masseter in form. It arises from the pterygoid fossa, being attached to the mner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and to the grooved surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone, and by a second slip from the outer surface of the tuberosities of the palate and maxilla; its fibres pass down- wards, outwards, and backwards, to be inserted, by a strong tendinous lamma, into the lower and back part of the inner side of the ramus and angle of the mandible, as high as the dental foramen. Relations.—By its external surface it is in relation with the ramus of the mandible, from which it is separated, at its upper part, by the External pterygoid, the internal lateral ligament, the internal maxillary artery, the inferior dental vessels and nerves, the Imgual nerve, and a process of the parotid gland. By its internal surface it is in relation with, the Tensor palati, bemg separated from the Superior constrictor of the pharjmx by a cellular interval. Nerves,—These muscles are supplied by the inferior maxillary nerve. Actions.—The Temporal, Masseter and Internal pterygoid raise the mandible against the maxillas mth great force. The External pterygoids assist in opening the mouth, but their main action is to draw forward the condyles and inter- articular cartilages so that the mandible is protruded and the inferior incisors projected in front of the upper ; in this action they are assisted by the Internal pterygoids. The mandible is retracted by the posterior fibres of the Temporal. If the Internal and External pterygoids of one side act, the corresponding side of the mandible is drawn forward while the opposite condyle remains comparatively fixed, and lateral movement, such as occurs during the trituration of food, takes place. Surface Form.—The outline of the muscles of the head and face cannot be traced on the surface, except in the case of two of the masticatory muscles. The muscles of the head are thin, so that the outline of the bone is perceptible beneath them. Those of the face are small, covered by soft skin, and often by a considerable layer of fat, so that their outline is concealed ; but they serve to round off and smooth prominent borders, and to fill up what would be otherwise unsightly angular depressions. Thus, the Orbi- cularis palpebrarum rounds off the prominent margm of the orbit, and the Pyramidalis nasi fills in the sharp depression beneath the glabella, and thus softens and tones down the abrupt depression which is seen on the unclothed skull. In like manner, the labial muscles, converging to the lips, and assisted by the superimposed fat, fill in the sunken hollow of the lower part of the face. Although the muscles of the face are usually described as arising from the bones, and inserted into the nose, lips, and corners of the mouth, they have fibres inserted into the skin of the face along their whole extent, so that almost every point of the skin of the face has its muscular fibre to move it. Hence it is that when in action the facial muscles produce alterations in the skin-surface, giving rise to flie formation of various folds or wrinkles, or otherwise altering the relative position of parts, so as to produce the varied expressions with which the face is endowed ; these muscles are therefore termed the ' muscles of expression.' The only two muscles in this region which greatly influence surface-form are the Masseter and the Temporal. The ^Masseter is a quadrilateral muscle, which imparts fulness to the hinder part of the cheek. '^^Hien the muscle is firmly contracted, as when the teeth are clenched, its outline is plainly visible ; the anterior border forms a j^rominent vertical ridge, behind which is a con- siderable fulness, especially marked at the lower part of the muscle. The Temporal muscle is fan-shaped, and fills the temporal fossa, substituting for it a somewhat convex form, the anterior part of which, on account of the absence of hair over the temple, is mon- marked than the posterior, and stands out in strong relief when the muscle is in a state of contraction. * In many cases the artery will be found under cover of the muscle.