LYMPHATICS OP THE THORAX 789 i internal iliac and sacral glands, but one trunk from the posterior surface ends i in the external iliac glands, and another from the anterior surface joms the vessels which drain the membranous part of tlie urethra. Lymphatic vessels of the urethra.—The lymphatics of the pemle portion of the urethra accompany those of the glans penis, and terminate with them in • the deep higuinal and external iliac glands. Tliose of the membranous and prostatic portions, and those of the whole urethra in the female, pass to the ! internal iliac glands. (4) The lymphatic vessels of the reproductive organs. The lymphatic vessels of the testes consist of two sets, superficial and deep, • the former commencing on the surface of the tunica vaginalis, the latter in ■ the epididymis and body of the testis. They form several large trunks, which ascend with the spermatic cord, and, accompanying the spermatic vessels into the abdomen, terminate in the lateral aortic glands. The lymphatic vessels of the vas deferens pass to the external iliac glands ; those of the vesiculce seminales partly to the internal and partly to the external iliac glands. The lymphatic vessels of the ovary are similar to those of the testis, and , ascend with the ovarian artery to the lateral aortic glands. The lymphatic vessels of the Fallopian tube pass partly with those of the ovary and partly with those of the uterus. The lymphatic vessels of the uterus (fig. 669) consist of two sets, superficial and deep, the former being placed beneath the peritoneum, the latter m the substance of the organ. The lymphatics of the cervix uteri run in three directions : transversely to the external iliac glands, postero-laterally to f;he internal ihac glands, and posteriorly to tlie common iliac glands. The majority of the vessels of the body and fundus of the uterus pass outwards in the broad ligaments, and are continued up with the ovarian vessels to the lateral aortic glands ; a few, hoAvever, run to the external iliac glands, and one or two to the superficial inguinal glands. In the unimpregnated uterus, the lymphatic vessels are very small, but during gestation are greatly enlarged. The lymphatic vessels of the vagina are carried in three directions : those of the upper part to the external iliac glands, those of the middle part to the internal iliac glands, and those of the lower part to the common iliac glands. On the course of those from the middle and lower parts small glands are situated. Some lymphatics from the lower part of the vagina join those of the vulva and pass to the superficial inguinal glands. The lymphatics of the vagina anastomose with those of the cervix uteri, vulva, and rectum, but not with those of the bladder. LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX The lymphatic glands of the thorax may be divided into parietal a,nd visceral—the former being situated in the thoracic waU, the latter in relation to the viscera. The parietal lymphatic glands include tlie internal mammary, intercostal and diaphragmatic glands. 1. The internal mammary glands are placed at the anterior extremities of the intercostal spaces, by the side of the internal mammary artery. They derive aflerents from the mammary gland, from the deeper structures of the anterior abdominal wall above the level of the umbilicus, from the upper surface of the liver tlirough a small group of glands which lie behind the ensi- form cartilage, and from the deeper parts of the anterior portion of the thoracic waU. Their efferents usually unite to form a single trunk on either side ; this may open directly into the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins, or that of the right side may join the right subclavian trunk, and that of the left the thoracic duct. 2. The intercostal glands (lymphoglandulse intercostales) occupy the posterior parts of tlie intercostal spaces, in relation to the intercostal vessels. They receive the deep lymphatics from the postero-lateral aspect of the chest ; some of these vessels are interrupted by small lateral intercostal glands. The efferents of the glands in the lower four or five spaces unite to form a trunk.