591 MUSCLES AND FASCLE OP THE FOOT portion of tlie external cuneiform, and from the prolongation of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus whicli is attached to that bone. The muscle divides in front into two portions, which are inserted into tlie inner and outer sides of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, a sesamoid bone being developed in each tendon at its insertion. The inner portion of this muscle is blehded with the Abductor hallucis previous to its insertion ; the outer with the Adductor obliquus hallucis ; the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis lies in a groove between them. The Adductor obliquus hallucis is a large, thick, fleshy mass, passing obliquely across the foot, and occupying the hollow space between the inner four metatarsal bones. It arises from the tarsal extremities of the second, tliird, and fourth metatarsal bones, and from the sheath of the tendon of the Peroneus longus, and is inserted, together with the outer portion of the Flexor brevis hallucis, into the outer side of tlie base of the fii-st phalanx of the great toe. The Adductor transversus hallucis {Tmnsversus 'pedis) is a narrow, flat, muscular fasciculus, stretched transversely across the heads of the metatarsal bones, between them and the Flexor tendons. It arises from the inferior metatarso-phalangeal ligaments of the three outer toes, sometimes only from the third and fourth, and from the transverse ligament of the metatarsus. It is inserted into the outer side of the base of the fii'st phalanx of the great toe, its fibres being blended with the tendon of insertion of the Adductor obliquus hallucis. The small muscles of the gi-eat toe, the Abductor, Flexor brevis. Adductor obliquus, and Adductor transversus, like the similar muscles of the thumb, give off, at their insertions, fibrous expansions to blend with the long Extensor tendons. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti (m. flexor brevis digiti quinti) lies on the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and much resembles one of the Inter- ossei. It arises from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and from the sheath of the Peroneus longus ; its tendon is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe on its outer side. Occasionally some of the deeper fibres of the muscle are inserted into the outer part of the distal half of the fifth metatarsal bone ; these are described by some as a distinct muscle, the Opponens minimi digiti. Fourth Layer (figs. 552, 553) Interossei. The Interossei in the foot are similar to those in the hand, with this exception, that they are gi-ouped around the middle line of the second digit, instead of that of the third. They are seven in number, and consist of two groups, dorsal and plantar. The Dorsal interossei (inter ossei dorsales) (fig. 552), four in number, are situated between the metatarsal bones. They are bipenniform muscles, arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metatarsal bones between which they are placed ; their tendons are inserted into the bases of the first phalanges, and into the aponeurosis of the common Extensor tendon. In the angular interval left between the heads of each of the three outer muscles, one of the perforating arteries passes to the dorsum of the foot; through tlie space between the heads of the First interosseous muscle the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis artery enters the sole of the foot. The First dorsal mterosseous muscle is inserted into the inner side of the second toe ; the other three are inserted into the outer sides of the second, tliird, and fourth toes. The Plantar interossei (interossei plantares) (fig. 553), tlu-ee in number, lie beneath rather than between the metatarsal bones, and each is connected with but one metatarsal bone. They arise from the bases and inner sides of the shafts of the thii'd, fourth, and'fifth metatarsal bones, and are inserted into the inner sides of the bases of the first phalanges of the same toes, and into the aponeuroses of the common Extensor tendons. Nerves.—The Flexor brevis digitorum, the Flexor brevis and Abductor hallucis, and the innermost Lumbrical are supphed by the internal plantar nerve; all