1210 SPLANCHNOLOGY testes. The operation of castration was formerly performed for enlai-gement of the prostate, but has now been entirely abandoned in favour of the rlirect operation on the enlarged prostate. Castration is in most cases best carried out by the ' high ' operation, an incision being made through the skin and fascia in the region of the external abdominal ring. The testis, with its deeper coverings, is then pushed up into the wound and separated from the scrotal tissues. The cord is then isolated, and an aneurysm needle, armed with a ligatm-e, passed through it, as high as it is thought necessary, and the cord tied and divided. In cases of malignant and tuberculous disease, it is desirable to open the inguinal canal and tie the cord as near the internal abdominal ring as possible. When removing the testis in this manner the tunica vaginalis is not opened and its folds of reflection to the scrotal tissues do not need division. The whole of the tunica vaginalis Ls thus removed with the cord and its coverings. Acute inflammation of the testis, or orchitis, is common in gonorrhoea; a chronic fibrosing form of orchitis is frequent in syphihs, and leads to skrinkage and hardening of the testis. In tabes dorsalis the testis often becomes quite insensitive to pressure, which, in the healthy adult, readily produces a severe and peculiar sickening sensation. Vas Deferens The vas deferens (ductus deferens), the excretory duct of the testis, is the contuauation of the canal of the epididymis. Commencing at the lower part of the globus minor, it is at first very tortuous, but gradually becoming less twisted it ascends along the posterior border of the testis and mner side of the epididymis, and along the back j)art of the spermatic cord, through the inguinal canal to the internal or deep abdominal ring. Prom the ring it curves round the outer side of the deep epigastric artery, and ascends for about an inch in front of the external iliac artery. It is next directed backwards and sUghtly downwards, and, crossing the external Uiac vessels obhquely, enters the pelvic cavity, where it lies between the peritoneal membrane and the lateral wall of the pelvis, and passes on the inner side of the obliterated hypo- gastric artery and the obturator nerve and vessels. It then crosses in front of the ureter, and, reaching the inner side of tliis tube, bends to form an acute angle, and runs inwards and slightly forwards between the base of the bladder and the upper end of the seminal vesicle. Reaching the inner side of the seminal vesicle, it is directed do'O'nwards and inwards La contact with it, gradually approacliing the vas of the opposite side. Here it lies between the base of the bladder and the rectum, where it is enclosed, together with the seminal vesicle, in a sheath derived from the recto-vesical portion of the fascia endopelvina. Lastly, it is directed downwards to the base of the prostate, where it becomes greatly narrowed, and is joined at an acute angle by the duct of the seminal vesicle to form the ejaculatory duct, which traverses the prostate gland behind its middle lobe and opens into the prostatic portion of the urethra, close to the sinus pocularis. The vas deferens presents a hard and cord-Uke sensation to the fingers, and is of cylindrical form ; its walls are dense, and its canal is extremely small. At the base of the bladder it becomes enlarged and tortuous, and this portion is termed the ampulla. A small triangular area of the base of the bladder, between the^'vasa deferentia laterally and the bottom of the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum above, is in contact with the rectum. . >r ^^ v r OLlA^-^^^ . '""c Structure.—The vas deferens consists of three coats : (1) an external or areolar coat; ^2) a muscular coat, which in the greater part of the tube consists of two layers of unstriped muscular fibre : an outer, longitudinal in direction, and an inner, circular ; but in addition to these, at the commencement of the vas deferens, there is a third layer, consisting of longitudinal fibres, placed internal to the cu-cular stratum, between it and the mucous membrane; (.3) an internal, or mucous coat, which is pale, and arranged in longitudinal folds. The mucous coat is lined by columnar epithelium which is non-ciliated throughout the greater part of the tube; a variable ])ortion of the testicular end of the tube is lined by two strata of columnar cells and the cells of the superficial layer are ciliated. A long narrow tube, the vas aberrans of Haller, is occasionally found connected with the lower part of the canal of the epididymis, or with the commencement of the vas deferens. It extends up into the cord for about two or three inches, where it terminates by a bhnd extremity, which is sometimes bifurcated. Its length varies from an inch and a half to fourteen inches, and it may become dilated towards its extremity ; more commonly it retains the same diameter throughout. Its structure is similar to that of the vas deferens. Occasionally it is found unconnected with the epididymis.