318 OSTEOLOGY THE PHALANGES The Phalanges (plualanges digitorum manus) are fourteen in number, three for each finger, and two for the thumb. Each consists of a shaft and two extremities. The shaft tapers from above downwards, is convex pos- teriorly, concave in front from above downwards, fiat from side to side, and marked laterally by rough ridges, w hicli give attachment to the fibrous sheaths of the Flexor tendons. The metacarpal extremities of the bones of the first row present oval, concave articular surfaces, broader from side to side than from before backwards. The proximal extremity of each of the bones of the second and third rows presents a double concavity separated by an antero-posterior median ridge. The distal extremities are smaller than the proximal, and each terminates in two lateral condjdes separated by a shallow Fig. 377.—Plan of ossification of the hand. One centre for each hone : AH cartilaginous at birth METACARPALS OP FINUERS Two centres for each hone : One for shaft One for digital extremity PHALANGES Two centres for each hone . One for shaft One for metacarpal extremity ^ Appears ird year \^ Unite Wth year ^ Appears 8th week ^ Appears ilh-illi iiear ^ Unite lS//i-20/ft pear ^l^l—Appears 81 li treek " PI ^Appears ilh-blh ijcar iL'nite 18Wi-2(WA pear \%' V ippears 8lh ireek- V groove ; the articular surface extends farther on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect, a condition best marked in the bones of the first row. The ungual phalanges are convex on their dorsal and flat on their palmar surfaces ; they are recognised by their small size, and by a roughened elevated surface of a horse-shoe form on the palmar aspect of the distal extremity of each which serves to support the sensitive pulp of the finger. Articulations.- In the four inner digits the phalanges of the first row articulate with those of the second row and with the metacarpals ; the phalanges of the second row with those of the first and third rows, and the ungual phalanges witii those ol the second row. In the thumb, which has only two phalanges, the first phalanx articulates ])y its proximal extremity with the metacarpal bone and by its distal with the ungual phalanx.