OSTEOLOGY 248 Fig. 317.—Left lachi-ymal bone. External surface. (Slightly enlarged.) with frontal It presents for examination two surfaces and four borders. The external or orbital surface (fig. 317) is divided by a vertical ridge, the lachrymal crest (crista laciiraalis posterior), into two parts. The portion in front of this crest presents a longitudinal groove (sulcus lacrimalis), the inner margin of which unites with the frontal process of the maxilla, and the lachrymal fossa is thus completed. The upper part of this fossa lodges the lachrymal sac, the lower part, the nasal duct. The portion behind the crest is smooth, and forms part of the inrier ^A•all of the orbit. The crest, with a part of the orbital surface immediately behind it, gives origin to the Tensor tarsi muscle, and terminates below in a small, hook-like projection, the hainular process (hamulus lacrimalis), which articulates with the laclu'ymal tubercle of the raaxiUa, and com- pletes the upper orifice of the lachrymal canal. It sometimes exists as a separate piece, and is then called the lesser lachrymal hone. The internal or nasal surface presents a longitudinal furroA\-, corresponding to the crest on the outer surface. The area in front of tliis furrow forms part of the middle meatus of the nose ; that behind it articulates with the ethmoid bone, and completes some of the anterior ethmoidal cells. Of t\\& four borders the anterior is the longest, and articulates with the frontal process of the maxLUa. The posterior, thin and imeven, articulates ^dth the os planum of the ethmoid. The superior, the shortest and tliickest, articulates mth the internal angular process of the frontal. The inferior is divided by the lower edge of the vertical crest into two parts : the posterior part articulates with the orbital plate of the maxilla ; the anterior is prolonged downwards as the descending or turbinal process, which articulates with the lachrymal process of the inferior turbinated bone, and assists in forming the canal for the nasal duct. Ossification.—The lachrymal is ossified from a single centre, which appears about the eighth or ninth week in the membrane covering the cartilaginous nasal capsule. Articulations.—The lachrymal articulates with four hones: two of the cranium, the frontal and ethmoid, and two of the face, the maxiUa and the inferior turbinated. The Malab or Zygomatic Bones The Malar or Zygomatic Bone (os zygomaticum) is a small, quadrangular bone, situated at the upper and outer part of the face : it forms the prommence of the cheek, part of the outer waU and floor of the orbit, and parts of the temporal and zygomatic fossje (fig. 318). It presents an external and an internal surface ; four processes, the fronto-sphenoidal, orbital, maxiUar}', and temporal or zj^gomatic ; and four borders. The external surface (facies malaris) (fig. 319) is convex and perforated near its centre by a small aperture, the malar foramen (foramen z3^gomatico- faciale), for the passage of the malar nerve and vessels. It is covered by the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and presents, below the malar foramen, a slight elevation, the malar tubercle, \A-hich gives origin to the Zygomatici. The internal surface (facies temporahs) (fig. 320), directed backwards and inwards, is concave, presenting internally a rough, triangular area, for articu- lation with the maxilla, and externally a smooth, concave surface, the upper part of which forms the anterior boundary of the temporal fossa, the lower a part of the zygomatic fossa. On this surface, a little above its centre, is the aperture of a malar canal (foramen zygomaticotemporale), for the transmission of the temporal branch of the temporo-malar nerve. The fronto-sphenoidal process is thick and serrated, and articulates with the external angular process of the frontal bone. To its orbital margin is attached the external tarsal hgament. The orbital process is a thick, strong plate, projecting backwards and inwards from the orbital margin. Its antero-internal surface, smooth and concave, forms, by its junction with the orbital surface of the maxilla and with the greater wmg of the sphenoid, part of the floor and outer wall of the orbit. On it are seen the orifices of two