230 OSTEOLOGY of the auricular fissure. Its antero-superior border fuses externally with the back of the post-glenoid process, while internally it bounds the Glaserian fissure. The loiver border is tliin and sliarp at its inner part; its outer part splits to enclose the root of the styloid process, and is therefore named the vaginal process. The central portion of the tympanic plate is tliin, and in a considerable percentage of skuUs is perforated by a hole, the foramen of H-uschke. The external auditory meatus (meatus acusticus externus) is directed inwards and slightly forwards : at the same time it forms a shght curve, so that the floor of the canal is convex ujiwards. It measures about three-quarters of an inch in length, and presents an oval or elliptical shape—its long axis being directed doM nwards and shghtly backwards. As has been pointed out, its anterior wall, its floor, and the lower part of its posterior wall are formed by the tympanic plate ; the roof and upper part of the posterior waU are constituted by the squamous portion. Its inner end is closed, in the recent state, by the membrani tympani ; the upper limit of its outer orifice is formed by the posterior root of the zygoma, immediately below wliich there is sometimes seen a small spine, the suprameatal spine, situated at the upper and posterior part of the orifice. Fig. 298.—The thi-ee principal parts of the temporal bone at bii-tli. Processus cochleariforinis Fenestra ovalis Mastoid antrum. Sulcus tijmpanicus Bristle in aquceductus Fallopii Outer wall of mastoid antrum 1. Outer surface of petro-mastoid part. 2. Outer surface of tjrmpanic riug. 3. Inner sxu-face of squamous part. The styloid process is slender, pointed, and of varying length ; it projects downwards and forwards, from the under surface of the temporal bone, bej'ond the tympanic plate. Its proximal part (tympano-hyal) is ensheathed by the vaginal process, while its projecting portion (siylo-hyal) gives attachment to the stylo-hyoid and stylo-mandibular ligaments, and to the Stylo-glossus, Stylo-hyoid' and Stylo-pharyngeus muscles. The stylo-liyoid ligament extends from the apex of the process to the lesser cornu of the hj-oid bone, and may undergo partial or complete ossification. Structure.—The structure of the squamous portion is like that of the other cranial bones : the mastoid portion is cellular, and the petrous portion dense and hard. Ossification.—The temporal bone is ossified from eighl centres, exclusive of those for the internal ear and the tympanic ossicles—viz. one for the squamous portion including the zygoma, one for the tympanic plate, four for the petro-mastoid part, and two for the styloid process. Just before the close of foetal life (fig. 298) the temporal bone consists of three principal parts. I. The squamo-zygomatic is ossified in membrane from a single inicleus, which appears near the root of the zygoma about the second month. 2. The petro-mastoid is developed from four centres, which make their appearance in the cartilaginous car-capsule about the fifth or sixth month. One (prootic) appears in the neighbourhood of the enimcntia arcuata, spreads in front and above the internal auditory montiis