763 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM The cystic vein (v. cystica) drains the blood from tlie gall bladder, and, ascending alongside the cystic duct, usually terminates in the right branch of tlie portal vein. Parumbilical veins (vv. parumbilicales).—In tlie course of the liga- mentum teres of the liver, and of the urachus, small veins (parumbilical) are found, which establish an anastomosis between tlie veins of the anterior abdominal Mall and tlie portal and iliac veins. The best marked of these small veins is one which commences at the umbilicus and runs backwards and upwards in, or on the surface of, the ligamentum teres between the layers of the falciform ligament to terminate in the left portal vein. Applied Anatomy.—Obstruction to the portal vein maj' produce ascites, and this may arise from many causes: as (1) the pressure of a tumour on the portal vein, such as cancer or hydatid cyst in the liver, enlarged lymphatic glands in the lesser omentum, or cancer of the head of the pancreas ; (2) from cirrhosis of the liver, when the i-adicles of the portal vein are pressed upon by the contracting fibrous tissue in the portal canals ; (3) from valvular disease of the heart, and back pressure on the hepatic veins, and so on the whole of the circulation through the liver. In this condition the prognosis as regards life and freedom from ascites may be much improved by the establishment of a good collateral venous circulation to relieve the portal obstruction in the liver. This is effected by com- munications between (a) the gastric veins, and the oesophageal veins emptying themselves into the vena azygos minor, which often project as a varicose bunch into the stomach ; (6) the veins of the colon and duodenum, and the left renal vein ; (c) the accessory portal sj'stem of Sappey, branches of which pass in the round and falciform ligaments (particularly the latter) to imite with the epigastric and internal mammary veins, and through the diaphragmatic veins with the azygos ; a single large vein, shown to be a parumbilical vein, may pass from the hilus of the liver by the round ligament to the umbilicus, producing there a bunch of prominent varicose veins known as the Caput Medusce ; {d) the veins of Retzius, which connect the intestinal veins with the inferior vena cava and its retroperitoneal branches ; (e) the inferior mesenteric veins, and the haemorrhoidal veins that open into the internal iliaos ; (/) very rarely the ductus venosus remains patent, affording a direct connection between the portal vein and the inferior vena cava. An operation for the relief of portal obstruction on these lines has been advocated by Rutherford Morison and by Talma. It consists in curetting the opposed surfaces of the hver and diaphragm and stitching them together, so as to secure vascular inflammatory adhesions between the two. The great omentum may with advantage be interposed between them, so as to increase the amount of the adhesions, and the spleen has been similarly scraped and sutured to or into the abdominal waU. The operation should not be deferred until the patient is moribund. Thrombosis of the portal vein, or pylethrombosis, is a very serious event, and is oftenest due to pathological processes causing compression of the vessel or injury to its wall, such as tumours or inflammation about the pylorus, head of the pancreas, or appendix, or to gall-stones or ciiThosis of the hver. If the thrombus is infected with bacteria, as is often the case when it is due to appendicitis, sej)tic or suppurative pylephlebitis results; this condition is known also as portal pycemia. Fragments of the infected clot break off and are carried away to lodge in the smaller veins in the hver, with the development of multiple abscesses in its substance and a rapidly fatal result. When the thrombus is sterile, the chief signs produced are enlargement of the spleen, recurrent ascites, and the establish- ment of a collateral venous circulation, the case clinically resembling one of atrophic cirrhosis of the hver. The symptoms of thrombosis of the mesenteric veins are very much the same as those of emboUsm of the mesenteric arteries (see p. 694). THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM Tile lymphatic system includes the lymphatic vessels and lymphatic glands. The lymphatic vessels of the small intestine receive the special designation of lacteals or chyliferous vessels ; they differ in no respect from the lymphatic vessels generally, excepting that during the j)rocess of digestion they contain a milk-white fluid, the chyle. The lymphatic vessels are exceedingly delicate, and their coats are so transparent that the fluid they contain is readQy seen through them. Tliey retaui a nearljr uniform size, being interrupted at intervals by constrictions, which give them a knotted or beaded appearance. These constrictions are Que to the presence of valves in their interior. Lymphatic vessels have Been found in nearly every texture and organ of the body which contains