ASTRAGALUS 355 forwards and outwards at an angle of about 45'' with the antero-posterior axis of the body. The middle calcanean facet (facies calcanea articularLs media) is small, oval in form and slightly convex ; it articulates with the upper surface of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis. The internal surface presents at its upper part a pear-shaped articular facet for the inner malleolus, continuous above with the trochlear surface ; below the articular sui'face is a rough depression for the attachment of the deep portion of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The external surface presents a large triangular facet, concave from above downwards, for articulation with the external malleolus; its anterior half is continuous above with the trochlear surface ; and m front of it is a rough depression for the attach- ment of the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle- joint. Fawcett * has dhected attention to a facet which comes into contact with the inferior tibio-fibular ligament during flexion of the ankle-joint. It is situated between the posterior half of the outer border of the trochlea and the corresponding part of the base of the triangular facet for the external malleolus. It is triangular in shape, the base bemg directed backwards ; below the base is a groove which affords attachment to the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The posterior surface is narrow, and traversed by a groove, which runs obliquely downwards and inwards, and transmits the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis. External to the groove is a prominent tubercle, to which the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament is attached ; tliis tubercle (processus posterior tali) is some- times separated from the rest of the astragalus, and is then known as the 05 trigonum. To the inner side of the groove is a second smaller tubercle. The neck (collum tali) is directed forwards and inwards, and comprises the constricted portion of the bone between the body and the oval head. Its upper and inner surfaces are rough, for the attachment of ligaments ; its external surface is concave, directed downwards and outwards, and is con- tmuous below with the deep groove for the mterosseous calcaneo-astragaloid ligament. The head (caput tali) looks fom^ards and inwards; its anterior surface presents a large, oval, convex facet (facies articularis navicularis), for articu- lation with the navicular. Its inferior surface has two facets, which are best seen m the recent condition. The mner of "these, situated immediately in front of the middle calcaneal facet, is convex, triangular or semi-oval in shape, and rests on the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament; the outer is named the anterior calcanean facet; it is somewhat flattened, and articulates with the facet on the . upper surface of the anterior part of the os calcis. Articulations.—The astragalus articulates with four bones : tibia, fibula, os calcis, and na%-icular. The Cuboid (fig. 406) The Cuboid (os cuboideum) is placed on the outer side of the foot, in front Fig. 406.—The left cuboid, a. Antero-internal view. b. Postero-external view. Occasional fi for navicii of the OS calcis, and behmd the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. It is of a pyramidal shape, its base being directed inwards. * I'Jdinhurgh Medical Journal, 1895. A A 2