1035 THE EAR Pig. 853.—^The pinna, or auricle. Outer surface. The pinna or auricula (fig. 853) is of an ovoid form, -with its larger end directed upwards. Its outer surface is irregularly concave, directed slightly forwards, and presents numerous eminences and depressions to which names have been assigned. Thus the external prominent rim of the auricle is called tl\e helix. Where the hehx turns downwards behind, a small tubercle, the tubercle of Darwin (tuberculum am-iculaj) is frequently seen. This tubercle is very evident about the sixth month of foetal Hfe ; at this stage the human pinna has a close resem- blance to that of some of the adult monkeys. Another curved prominence, parallel with and in front of the helix, is called the anlihelix ; this divides above into two crura, which enclose a triangular depression, the fossa of the antihelix (fossa triangularis). The narrow curved de- pression between the helix and the antihelix is called the fossa ofthehelix (scapha); the antihelix describes a cmve round a deep, capacious cavity, the conclut auriculae, which is partially divided into t^ o parts by the crus helicis or the commencement of the helix ; the upper part is termed the cyniba conchce, the lower part the cavum conchce. In front of the concha, and projecting backwards over the meatus, is a small pointed eminence, the tragus : so called from its being generally covered on its vmder surface with a tuft of hair, resembling a goat's beard. Opposite the tragus, and separated from it by a deep notch {incisura intertragica), is a small tubercle, the antitragus. Below this is the lobule (lobulus auriculae), composed of tough ai-eolar and adipose tissues, and v^-anting the firmness and elasticity of the rest of the pinna. The cranial surface of tlie pinna presents elevations M-hich correspond to the depressions on its outer surface and after wMch they are named, e.g. eminentia conchas, eminentia triangulai'is, &c. Structure of the pinna.—The pinna is composed of a thin plate of yellow fibro-cartilage, covered with, integument, and connected to the surrounding parts by the extrinsic ligaments and muscles ; and to the commencement of the external auditory canal l)y fibrous tissue. The integument is thin, closely adherent to the cartilage, and covered with hairs furnished with sebaceous glands which are most numerous in the conclia and scaphoid fossa. The hairs are most numerous and largest on the tragus and antitragus.