1016 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE Fig. 836.- with those of neighbouring cells, form a delicate network or stroma, which, towards the inner surface of the choroid, loses its pigmentary character. The inner layer or lamina choriocapillaris consists of an exceedingly fine capillary X^lexus, formed by the short ciliary vessels ; the network is closer, and finer in the posterior than in the anterior part of the choroid. About half an inch behind the cornea its meshes become larger, and are contmuous with those of the ciliary processes. These two laminae are connected by a stratum inter- medium consisting of fine elastic fibres. On the imier surface of the lamina choriocapillaris is a very thin, structureless, or faintly fibrous membrane, called the lamina basalis {membrane of Bruch); it is closely connected vnth. the stroma of the choroid, and separates it from the pigmentary layer of the retina. Tapetum.—This name is applied to the outer and posterior part of the choroid, which in many animals presents an iridescent appearance. The ciliary body (corpus ciliare) comprises the orbiculus ciUaris, the ciliary processes, and the Ciliary muscle. The orbiculus ciliaris is a zone of about one-sixth of an inch (4 mm.) in width, directly continuous with the anterior part of the choroid ; it presents numerous ridges arranged in a radial manner. The ciliary processes (processus ciliares) are formed by the inward folding of the various layers of the choroid (i.e. the choroid proper and the lamina basahs), and are received be- -The veins of the choroid. (Enlarged.) ^Ween corresponding foldings of the suspensory ligament oi the lens, thus establishing a connection between the choroid and inner tunic of the eye. They are arranged in a circle, and form a sort of frill behind the iris, round the margin of the lens. They vary from sixty to eighty in number, lie side by side, and may be divided into large and small ; the former are about one-tenth of an inch (2-5 mm.) in length, and the latter, con- sisting of about one-third of the entire number, are situated in the spaces between them, but without regular arrangement. They are attached by then- periphery to three or four of the ridges of the orbiculus ciliaris, and are continuous with'the layers of the choroid: their opposite extremities are free and rounded, and'are directed towards the posterior chamber of the eyeball and circum- ference of the lens. In front, they are continuous with the periphery ot the iris. Their posterior surfaces are connected with the suspensory hgament ot Structure (fig. 837).—The ciliary processes are similar in structure to the choroid, but the vessels are larger, and have chiefly a longituduial direction. Their posterior surfaces are covered by abilaminar layer of black pigment-ceUs, which is continued forwards from the retina, and is named the pars a harts retince. In the stroma of the ciliary processes there are also steUatc pigment- cells, but these are not so numerous as in the choroid itself. The Ciliary muscle (m. ciliaris) consists of unstriped fibres it forms a greyish, semitransparent, circular band, about one-eighth of an "if| broad on the outcTr surface of the fore-part of the choroid. It is thickest m front, and consists of two sets of fibres, radial and circular - - ' e numerous, arise from the junction oi lue they The radial fibres (fibrse raeridionales), much the more . cornea and sclera, and from the ligamentum pectinatum mdis ; backwards, and are attached to the ciliary proces.ses '-^^^^ orbiculus ciliam bundle, according to Waldeyer, is continued be in^^^^^^ the sclera. Tiie circular fibres (fibra^ circulares) are internal to the radiating run One