212 OSTEOLOGY other. From the middle of the sternum the furrow spreads out, and, exposing more of the surface of the bone, terminates at the junction of the gladiolus with the ensiform cartilage, on the same level as the disc between the ninth and tenth thoracic vertebra?. Immediately below this is the infra-sternal notch ; between the points of junction of the seventh costal cartilages to the sternum, and below the notch is a triangular depression, the epigastric fossa, or pit of the stomach (scrobiculus cordis), bounded laterally by the cartilages of the seventh ribs ; in it the ensiform cartilage can be felt. The stenmm in its vertical diameter presents a general convexity forwards, the most prominent point of which is at the joint between the manubrium and gladiolus. On either side of the sternum the costal cartilages and ribs on the front of the chest are partially obscured by the Pectoralis major, through which, however, they can be felt as ridges, with yielding intervals between them, corresponding to the intercostal spaces. Of these spaces, that between the second and third ribs is the widest, the next two somewhat narrower, and the remainder, with the exception of the last two, comparatively narrow. The lower border of the Pectoralis major corresponds to the fifth rib, and below this, on the front of the chest, the broad, flat outline of the ribs, as they begin to ascend, and the more rounded outline of the costal cartilages, are often visible. The lower boundary of the front of the thorax, the abdomino-thoracic arch, which is most plainly seen by bending the body backwards, is formed by the ensiform cartilage and the cartilages of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs, and the extremities of the cartilages of the eleventh and twelfth ribs. On either side of the chest, from the axilla do^vnwa^ds, the flattened external surfaces of the ribs may be defined in the form of oblique ridges, separated by depressions corre- sponding to the intercostal spaces. They are, however, covered by muscles, which, when strongly developed, obscure their outline to a certain extent. Nevertheless, the ribs, with the exception of the first, can generally be followed over the front and sides of the chest without difficulty. The first rib, being almost completely covered by the clavicle and scapula, can only be distinguished in a small portion of its extent. At the back, the angles of the ribs lie on a slightly marked oblique line, on either side of and some distance from the spinous processes of the vertebrae. This line diverges somewhat as it descends, and external to it is a broad, convex surface, caused by the projection of the ribs beyond their angles. Over this surface, except where covered by the scapula, the individual ribs can be distinguished. For clinical j)urposes and convenience of description, the smiace of the chest has been mapped out by arbitrary lines into certain defuiite areas. On the front of the chest the most important vertical Unes are the mid-sternal, which runs down the median Une of the sternum, and the mammary, which runs vertically downwards from a point midway between the centre of the presternal notch and the tip of the acromion jirocess. This line, if prolonged, will cross Poupart's ligament at a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. The lateral area is boimded by two vertical lines—that in front, the anterior axillary line, being dra^vn from the anterior fold of the axiUa ; and that behind, the posterior axillary line, fi'om the posterior fold. By some this lateral area of the thorax is further divided by a mid-axillary line, draAvn downwards from the apex of the axilla. On the posterior aspect of the thorax the scapular line is drawn vertically through the inferior angle of the scapula. Applied Anatomy.—Fracture of the sternum is by no means common, owing, no doubt, to the elasticity of the ribs and their cartilages which support it hke so many springs. The fracture usually occurs in the upper half of the gladiolus. Dislocation of the gladiolus from the manubrium may take place, and is sometimes described as a fracture.^ The bone is frequently the seat of gummatous tumours and not uncommonly is affected with caries. The ribs are frequently broken, though from their connections and shape they are able to withstand great force, yielding imder the injury and recovering themselves like a spring. The middle ones of the series are the most liable to fracture. The first and to a less extent the second, bemg protected by the clavicle, are rarely fractured ; and the eleventh and twelfth on account of their loose and floating condition enjoy a like immin\ity. The fracture generally occurs from indirect violence, from forcible compression of the chest wall, and the bone then gives way at its weakest part, i.e.. just in front of the angle. But the ribs may also be broken by "direct violence, in which case the bone is driven inwards at the point struck. Fracture of the ribs is frequently complicated with some injury to the viscera contained within the thorax or upper part of the abdommal cavity : this is most likely to occur in fractures from dii'ect violence. Fracture of the costal cartilages or separation of the cartilages from the ribs, may also take place, though they are comparatively rare injuries. In workmen the pressure of tools may displace the ensiform cartilage inward.s. The ribs are frequently the seat of tuberculous disease, with the formation of a chronic abscess in the chest wall.' This may not immediately overlie the carious portion of rib. as the pus is often directed a considerable distance along the subcostal groove before appearing beneath the integutnent.