I THE SPERMATOZOON 83 first polar body. Again, the two secondary spermatocytes by their subdivision give origin to four spermatozoa, and the secondary oocyte and first polar body to four cells, the mature ovum and three polar bodies. In the development of the spermatozoa, as in the maturation of the ovimi, there is a reduction of the nuclear chromosomes to one half of those present in the primary germ cells. But here the similarity ends, for it must be noted that the four spermatozoa are of equal size, and each is capable of fertilising a mature ovum, whereas the three polar bodies are not only very much smaller than the mature ovum but are incapable of further development, and may be regarded as abortive ova. FERTILISATION OF THE OVUM FertiUsation consists in the union of the spermatozoon with the mature ovum (fig. 99). This usually takes place in the upper part of the Fallopian tube, and the ovuin is then conveyed to the cavity of the uterus—a journey which probably occupies two or three days. Sometimes the fertilised ovum is arrested in the Fallopian tube and there undergoes development, giving rise to a tubal pregnancy; or it may fall into the abdominal cavity and produce an abdominal pregnancy. Occasionally the ovum is not expelled from the Graafian follicle when the latter FiQ. 99.—The process of fertilisation in the ovum of a mouse. (After Sobotta.) ruptures, but is fertilised within the follicle and produces what is known as an ovarian pregnancy. Numerous spermatozoa may pierce the zona pellucida (e.g. in the rabbit as many as sixty have been seen in its interior), but only one, under normal conditions, enters the vitellas and takes part in the process of fertilisation. At the point where the spermatozoon is about to pierce the vitellus the latter is drawn out into a conical elevation, termed the cone of attraclion. As soon as the spermatozoon has entered at this point the peripheral portion of the vitellus is transformed 'into a membrane, the vitelline membrane, which prevents the passage o£ g2