MYOLOGY of the superior tarsal plate, whilst tlie deepest lanieUa blends with an exnansio., t^JJni^^i^l^^^^'^^ ^^''^ ^«—t^srs;;: •;: The Four Recti (fig 484) arise from a fibrous ring (annulus tendineu. eommums) which surrounds the upper, inner, and lower margins of t?e o t foramen and encircles the optic nerve. The ring is completed by a 1 ■ tendinous bridge prolonged over tiie lower and inner part of the sphenoic il fissure and attached to a tubercle on the margin of the greatei w^70^1 l e sphenoid, bounding the sphenoidal fissure (fig. 485). Two fpecialised |a^'s of this fibrous ring may be made out : a lower, the ligament or tendon of 7Ann which gives origin to the Inferior rectus, part of the Internal rectus, and Uh- lower head of origm of the External rectus ; and an upper, which giv^e-s orili . o the Superior rectus, the rest of the Internal rectus, and the upper head^f the External rectus. This upper band is sometimes termed tJie superior tmdon of Lockwood. Each muscle passes forward in the position implied In- Its name to be inserted by a tendinous expansion into the sclera, about a quarter of an mch from the margin of the cornea. Between the two heads <,i the External rectus is a narrow interval, through which pass the Uvo divisions ot the third nerve, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, the sixth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein. Although tliese muscles present a common origin and are inserted in a similar manner into the sclera there are certain differences to be observed in them as regards their length and breadth. The Internal -tlQ. 485.—The relative iDositions of rectus is the broadest, the External the Iff Z^^'^n longest, and the Superior the thinnest and jeic eyeoaii. narrowest. Rectus superior The ObHquus ocuH supcriof is a Levator \ fusiform muscle, placed at the uppr-r palpebrw siiperiorls \ i • 1 "i- i-i^c u^jpi i , and inner side of the orbit, internal td om.uus superior | ^m^^^^^^ the Lcvator palpebrse. It arises imme- diately above the inner margin of the optic foramen, above and internal to the origin of the Superior rectus, and, passing forwards to the inner angle of the orbit, terminates in a rounded tendon, Mhich Lfpperhemi plays in a fibro-cartilaginous rinc; or Rec,u,i.ferior V ,;.erkeaa puUey attached to the troclilear fossa near T tJie internal angular process of the frontal bone. The contiguous surfaces of the tendon and ring are lined by a delicate synovial membrane, and enclosed ui a thin fibrous investment. The tendon is refiected backwards, outwards, and downwards beneath the Superior rectus to the outer part of the globe of the eye, and is inserted into the sclera, beliind tlie equator of the eyeball, the insertion of the muscle tying between the Superior and External recti. The ObHquus oculi inferior is a thin, narrow muscle, placed near tlic anterior margin of the orbit. It arises from the orbital plate of tlie maxilla, external to the lachrymal groove. Passing outwards, backwards, and upwards, between the Inferior rectus and the floor of the orbit, and then between the eyeball and the External rectus, it is inserted into the outer part of the sclera between the Superior and External recti, near to, but sonie\\hat behind, the insertion of the Superior oblique. Nerves.—The Levator palpebra>, Inferior oblique, and the Superior. Inferior and Internal recti are supplied by the third nerve : the Superior oblique, by the fourth ; the External rectus, by the sixth. Actions.—The Levator palpebriB raises the upper eyelid, and is the direct antagonist of the Orbicularis palpebrarum. The four Recti arc attached to the globe of the eye in such a manner that, acting singly, they will turn its corneal surface either upwards, downwards, inwards, or outwards, as expressed by their names. The movement produced by the Superior or Inferior rectus is not quitr a simple one, for inasmuch as each passes obhqucly outwards and forwards to tho eyeball, the elevation or depression of the cornea is accompanied by a certain deviation inwards, with a slight amount of rotation. These latter movements