1209 THE TESTES AND THEIR COVERINGS the vessels of the rete testis terminate in from twelve to fifteen or twenty ducts, the vasa effereniia (ductuli efferentes testis); they perforate the tunica albuginea, and carry the seminal fluid from the testis to the epididymis. Their course is at first straight; they then become enlarged, and exceedingly convoluted, and form a series of conical masses, the colli vasculosi, which together constitute the globus major of the ejiididymis. Each cone consists of a single convoluted duct, from six to eight inches in length, the diameter of wliich gradually decreases from the testis to the epididymis. Opposite the bases of the cones the efferent vessels open at narrow intervals into a single duct, which constitutes, by its complex convolutions, the body and globus minor of the epididymis. \ATien the convolutions of this tube are unravelled, it measures upwards of twenty feet in length ; it increases in diameter and thickness as it approaches the vas deferens. The convolutions are held together by fine areolar tissue, and by bands of fibrous tissue. The vasa recta have very thin walls ; like the channels of the rete testis they are lined by a single layer of flattened epithelium. The vasa efferentia and the tube of the epididymis have walls of considerable thickness, on account of the presence in them of muscular tissue, which is principally arranged in a cii-cular manner. These tubes are lined by columnar ciliated epithelium. Applied Anatomy.—The testis, developed in the lumbar region, may be arrested or delayed in its transit to the scrotum. It may be retained in the abdomen ; or it may be arrested at the internal abdominal ring, or in the inguinal canal; or it may just pass out of the external ring without finding its way to the bottom of the scrotum. When retained in the abdomen it gives rise to no symptoms, other than the absence of the testis from the scrotimi ; but when it is retained in the inguinal canal it is subjected to pressure and may become inflamed and painful. The testis when first formed is believed to be normal, but if retained it undergoes degenerative changes and becomes functionally useless ; so that a man in whom both testes are retained (anorchism) is sterile, though he may not be impotent. The absence of one testicle is termed monorchism. When a testis is retained in the inguinal canal it is often complicated with a congenital hernia, the funicular process of the peritoneum not being obliterated. In addition to the cases above described, where there is some arrest in the descent of the testis, this organ maj' descend through the inguinal canal, but may miss the scrotum and assume some abnormal position. The most common form is where the testis, emerging at the external abdominal ring, slips down between the scrotum and thigh and comes to rest in the perineum. This is known as perineal ectopia testis. With all varieties of abnormality in the position of the testis, it is very common to find concurrently a congenital hernia, or, if a hernia be not actually present, the funicular process is usually patent, and almost invariably so if the testis is in the inguinal canal. The testis, finally reaching the scrotum, may occupy an abnormal position in it. It may be inverted, so that its posterior or attached border is directed forwards and the tunica vaginalis is situated behind. Should a hydrocele occm-, and tapping be resorted to, the trocar may be thrust into the testis, if the operation is performed in the ordinary way, and care is not taken beforehand to ascertain the position of the gland. A number of instances of torsion of the spermatic cord, resulting in acute strangulation of the testis, have been recorded. In some it has been attributed to a strain or twist, and m several patients the condition has been associated with a late descent of the organ. Symptoms of this condition closely simulate those of a strangulated hernia. In consequence of the torsion the circulation is partly arrested and the organ swells and becomes acutely painful, and the condition may be accompanied with shock and vomiting. Gangrene of the testis, however, rarely follows, and the condition, if left without opera- tion, ends in atrophy of the organ. Torsion of the body of the testis also sometimes occurs within the tumca vaginalis in those cases in which a persistent mesorchium is present. hlmd collections of a serous character are very frequently found in the scrotum. To these the term hydrocele is applied. The most common form is the ordinary vaginal hydrocele, in which the fluid is contained in the sac of the tunica vaginalis, \\'hich is separated in Its normal condition, from the peritoneal cavity by the whole extent of the inguinal canal. In another form, the congenitfd hydrocele, the fluid is in the sac of the tunica vaginalis, but this cavity communicates uith the general peritoneal cavity, its tubular proce,ss remaining pervious. A third variety, known as an infantile hydrocele, occurs in those cases where the tubular process becomes obliterated only at its upper part, at or near the interna abdominal ring. It resembles the vaginal hydrocele, except as regards Its shape, the collection of fluid extending up the cord into the inguinal canal. Fourthly, tne tunicular process may become obliterated both at the internal ring and above the epiaidymis, leaving a central unobliterated portion, which may become distended wth mxia giving rise to a condition known as the encysted hydrocele of the cord. ILncysted hydrocele of the epididyinis or spermatocele is the name given to a cvst usually found m connection with the globus major of the epididymis. Among its contents are lound in many instances, a varying number of spermatozoa, and it is probably a retention cyst ot one of the tubules. The testis frequently requires removal for malignant disease ; in tuberculous disease : m oases of large herma testis, and in some instances of incompletely descended or misplaced