FOURTH CRANIAL NERVE The superior division (ramus superior), the smaller, passes inwards over the optic nerve, and supplies the Superior rectus and Levator palpebrse. Tlie inferior division (ramus inferior), the larger, divides into three branches. One passes beneath the optic nerve to the Internal rectus ; another, to the Inferior rectus ; and the third, the longest of the three, runs forwards between the Inferior and External recti to the Inferior oblique. From tliis latter a short thick branch (radix brevis ganghi ciliaris) is given off to the lower part of the lenticular gangUon, and forms its inferior root. All these branches enter the muscles on their ocular surfaces, with the exception of the nerve to the Inferior oblique, which enters the muscle at its posterior border. Applied Anatomy.—Paralysis of the thii-d nerve may be the result of many causes, such as cerebral disease ; or conditions causing pressure on the cavernous sinus ; or periostitis of the bones entering into the formation of the sphenoidal fissure. It results, when complete, in (1) ptosis, or drooping of the upper eyelid, in consequence of the Levator palpebr£e being paralysed ; (2) external strabismus, on account of the imopposed action of the External rectus and Superior oblique muscles, which are not supplied by the third nerve and are therefore not paralysed ; (3) dilation of the pupil, because the sphincter fibres of the iris are paralysed ; (4) loss of power of accommodation and of contraction on exposure to light, as the Sphincter pupillaa, the Ciliary muscle, and the Internal rectus are paralysed ; (5) shght prominence of the eyeball, owing to most of its muscles being relaxed ; (6) the patient v.-iW complain most of the diplopia, or double vision that occurs, the false' image being higher than the true, and the separation of the two images increasing mth movements inwards. Occasionally paralysis may affect only a part of the nerve—that is to say, there may be, for example, a dilated and fixed pupil, with ptosis, but no other signs. Irritation of the nerve causes spasm of one or other of the muscles supplied by it ; thus, there may be internal strabismus from spasm of the Internal rectus ; accom- modation for near objects only, from spasm of the Ciliary muscle ; or miosis (contraction of the pupil) from irrita- tion of the Sphincter of the pupil. The third nerve is particularly liable to become involved in a syphilitic periarteritis as it leaves the base of the brain, when passing between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries ; associated vnth locomotor ataxia various partial or complete paralyses of the nerve are often seen. Fourth Nerve (fig. 767) Fig. 767.—Nerves of the orbit. Seen from above. The Fourth or Trochlear nerve (n. trochlearis), the smallest of the cranial nerves, supplies the Superior oblique muscle of the eyeball. It arises from a nucleus situated in the floor of the Sylvian aqueduct, opposite the upper part of the lower quadri- geminal body. From its origin the nerve runs outwards and dott-nwards through the tegmen- tum, and then turns backwards and mwards into the upper part of the valve of Vieussens. Here it decussates M-ith the corre- sponding nerve of the opposite side and emerges from the surface of the valve at the side of the freenulum veil, mimediately behind the lower quadrigemmal body. Motor ro Scnsorij root Recurrent filament to dura mater