THE LARYNX 1067 arytenoid cartUages. Its length, in the male, measures rather less than an - • —- - in the female it is shorter by 5 or 6 mm. The width and Fia. 882.—Side view of the larynx, shomng muscular attachments. inch (23 mm , , shape, of the rima glottidis vary with the movements of the vocal cords and aryte- noid cartilages during respiration and phonation. In the condition of rest, i.e. when these structures are uninfluenced by muscular action, as in quiet respiration, the glottis vocalis is triangular, with its apex in front and its base behind—the latter bemg represented by a line, about 8 mm. long, connecting the anterioj; ex- tremities of the vocal processes, while the inner surfaces of the arytenoids are parallel to each other, and hence the glottis respi- ratoria is rectangular. During extreme adduction of the cords, as in the emission of a high note, the glottis vocahs is re- duced to a Unear slit by the apposition of the cords, while the glottis respiratoria is triangular, its apex corresponding to the anterior extremities of the vocal processes of the arytenoids, which are approximated by the inward rotation of the cartilages. Conversely in extreme abduction of the cords, as in forced inspiration, the arytenoids and their vocal processes are rotated outwards, and the glottis respi- ratoria is triangular in shape but with its apex directed backwards. In this condition the entire glottis is some- what lozenge-shaped, the sides of the glottis vocalis diverging from before backwards, those of the Fig. 883.-Musc]es of larynx. Posterior vie^y. glottis respiratoria diverging from belund lorM-ards—the widest part of the aperture corresponding with the attachments of the cords to the vocal processes. Muscles.—The muscles of the larynx are extrinsic, passing between the larynx and parts around—these have been described in the sec- tion on Myology; and in- trinsic, confined entirely to the larynx. The intrinsic muscles Cushion of epiglottis Cartilage ofWrisberg Cartilage of Santorini lArytenoideus are Crico-arytenoiileus posticus Crico-thyroideus. Crico-arytenoideus posticus. Crico-arytenoideus lateralis. Arytenoideus. Thyro-arytenoideus. The Crico-thyroideiis (m. cricothyreoideus) (fig. 882) is triangular in form, and situated at tlie fore part and It arises from the front and lateral part side of the cricoid cartilage. of the cricoid cartilage ; its fibres diverge, passing obliquely upwards and