451 METATARSO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS articulation of the cuboid with the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. A small sjmovial membrane is sometimes found between tlie contiguous surfaces of tlie navicular and cuboid bones. Nerve-supply.—The nerves supplying the tarso-metatarsal joints are derived from the anterior tibial. VIII. METATARSO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS (ARTICTJLATIONES METATARSOPHALANGE.E) The raetatarso-phalangeal articulations are of the condyloid kind, formed by the reception of the rounded heads of the matatarsal bones into shallow cavities in the extremities of tlie first phalanges. The ligaments are : Plantar. Two Lateral. Tlie Plantar Ligaments (Glenoid ligaments of Cruveilhier) are thick, dense, fibrous structures. They are placed on the plantar surfaces of the joints in the intervals between the lateral ligaments, to which they are connected ; they are loosely united to the metatarsal bones, but very firmly to the bases of the first phalanges. Their plantar sui'faces are intimately blended with the transverse metatarsal ligament, and present grooves for the passage of the Flexor tendons, the sheaths surrounding whicli are connected to the sides of the grooves. Theii- deep surfaces form parts of the articular facets for the heads of the metatarsal bones, and are lined by synovial membrane. The Lateral Ligaments are strong, rounded cords, placed one on either side of each joint, and attached, by one extremity, to the posterior tubercle on the side of the head of the metatarsal bone, and, by the other, to the contiguous extremity of the phalanx. The place of a Dorsal Ligament is supplied by the Extensor tendon on the back of each joint. Movements.—The movements permitted in the metatarso-phalangeal articu- lations are flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction. IX. INTERPHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS (ARTICULATIONES DIGITORUM PEDIS) The articulations of the phalanges are ginglynioid joints. The ligaments are : Plantar. Two Lateral. The arrangement of these ligaments is similar to that in the metatarso- phalangeal articulations : the Extensor tendon supplies the place of a dorsal ligament. Movements.—The only movements permitted in the phalangeal joints are flexion and extension ; these movements are more extensive between the first and second phalanges than between the second and third. The amount of flexion is very considerable, but extension is limited by the plantar and lateral Hganients. Surface Form.—^The principal joints which it is necessary to distinguish, with regard to the surgery of the foot, are the mid-tarsal and tJie tarso-metatarsal ; the mid-tarsal joint consists of the astragalo-navicular and calcaneo-cuboid articulations. The joint between the astragahis and the navicular lies immediately behind the tubercle of the latter bone. If the foot be grasped and forcibly extended, a rounded prominence, the head of the astragalus, appears on the inner side of the dorsum in front of the ankle-joint, and if a knife were carried downwards, just in front of this prominence and behind the line of the navicular tubercle, it would enter the astragalo-navicular joint. The calcaneo- cuboid joint is situated midway between the external malleolus and the prominent base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The plane of the joint is in the same line as that of the astragalo-navicular. The position of the joint between the fifth metatarsal bone and the cuboid is easily found by the projection of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, which IS the guide to it. The direction of the line of the joint is very oblique, so that, if continued inwards, it would pass through the inner .side of the head of the first metatarsal bone. The joints between the third and fourth metatarsal bones and the cuboid and external cunciforrn are the direct continuation inwards of the previous joint, but their planes are less oblique. The tarso-metatarsal articulation of the great toe corresponds to a groove which can be felt by making firm pressure on the inner side of the foot one inch m front of the tubercle on the navicular bone ; and the joint between the second G G 2