INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY 701 The internal pudic (a. pudenda interna) is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, and supplies the external organs of veneration. Though the course of the artery is the same in the two sexes, the vessel is much smaller in the female than in the male, and the distribution of its branches somewhat different. The description of its arrangement in the male ■will first be given, and subsequently the differences which it presents in the female will be meiitioned. The internal pudic artery in the male passes dowiiwards and outwards to the lower border of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and emerges from the pelvis between the Pyi'iformis and Coccygeus muscles ; it then crosses the spine of the ischium, and enters the perinreum through the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. The artery now crosses the Obturator internus muscle, along the outer wall of the ischio- rectal fossa, being situated about an inch and a half above the lower margin of the ischial tuberosity. It gradually approaches the margin of the ramus of the ischium and passes forvvards between the two layers of the triangular ligament of the perinffium; it then nms forwards along the inner margin of the ramus of the pubis and about half an inch behind the sub-pubic ligament it pierces the superficial layer of the triangular ligament and divides into its two terminal branches, the dorsal artery of the -penis and the artery of the corpus cavernosum. Relations.—Within the pelvis, it lies in front of the Pyriformis muscle, the sacral plexus of nerves, and the sciatic ai-tery, and on the outer side of the rectum (on the left side). As it crosses the spine of the ischium, it is covered by the Gluteus maximus and overlapped by the gi-eat sacro-sciatic ligament. Here the pudic nerve lies to the inner side and the nerve to the Obturator internus to the outer side of the vessel. In the perinjeimi it lies on the outer side of the ischio- rectal fossa, in a canal {Alcock's canal) formed by the splitting of the obturator fascia. It is accompanied by the pudic veins and the pudic nerve. Peculiarities.—The internal pudic is sometimes smaller than usual, or fails to give ofi one or two of its usual branches ; ia such cases the deficiency is supplied by branches derived from an additional vessel, the accessory pudic, which generally arises from the internal pudic artery before its exit from the great sacro-sciatic foramen. It passes forwards along the lower part of the bladder and across the side of the prostate gland to the root of the penis, where it perforates the triangular Ugament, and gives ofi the branches usually derived from the pudic artery. The deficiency most frequently met with is that in which the internal pudic ends as the artery of the bulb, the artery of the corjjus caver- nosum and the dorsal artery of the penis being derived from the accessory pudic. The pudic artery may also terminate as the superficial perineal, the artery of the bulb being derived, with the other two branches, from the accessory vessel. Occasionally the accessory pudic artery is derived from one of the other branches of the internal iliac, most frequently the inferior vesical or the obturator. Branches.—The branches of the internal pudic artery are : Muscular. Transverse perineal. Inferior haemorrhoidal. Artery of the bulb. Superficial perineal. Artery of the corpus cavernosum. Dorsal artery of the penis. The muscxdar branches consist of two sets : one given off in the pelvis ; the other, as the vessel crosses the ischial spine. The former consists of several small offsets which supply the Levator ani, the Obturator internus, the Pyi'iformis, and the Coccygeus muscles. The branches given off outside the pelvis are distributed to the adjacent part of the Gluteus maximus and external rotator muscles. They anastomose with branches of the sciatic artery. The inferior JuemorrJioidal (a. hajmorrhoidalis inferior) (fig. 611) arises from the interna pudic as it passes above the tuberosity of the iscliium. Piercing the wall of Alcock's canal it divides into two or three branches which cross the ischio-rectal fossa, and are distributed to the muscles and integument of the anal region, and send offshoots round the lower edge of the Gluteus maximus to the skin of the buttock. They anastomose with the corresponding vessels of the opijosite side, with the suiserior and middle hasmorrhoidal, and \vith the transverse and superficial perineal arteries. The superjicial perineal (a. perinei) supplies the scrotum and the muscles and integument of the perinteum. It arises from the internal pudic, in front of the preceding branches, and turns upwards, crossing either over or under the Transversus jierinasi muscle, and runs forwards, parallel to the pubic arch, in the interspace between the Ejaculator urina; and Erector penis muscles, both of which it supplies, and is finally distributed to the skin and