OSTEOLOGY the sutures surrounding the great wing of the sphenoid, viz. : the spheno-malar in front, the spJmio-frontal and sp?ieno-parietal above, and the spheno-squamosal behind. The spheno-parietal suture varies in length in different skulls, and is absent in those cases where the frontal articulates with the squamous part of the temporal. The point corresponding with the posterior end of the spheno- parietal suture is named the pterion ; it is situated about an inch and a quarter behind, and a little above the level of the external angular process of the frontal bone. The squamous suture arches backwards from the pterion and connects the squamous part of the temporal with the lower border of the parietal: this suture is continuous behind with the short, nearly horizontal parieto- mastoid suture, wliich unites the mastoid process of the temporal ^vith the region of the postero-inferior angle of the parietal. Extending from above downw^ards and forwards across the cranium are the coronal and lamhdoid sutures; the former connects the parietal with the frontal, the latter, the XJarietal with the occipital. The lambdoid suture is continuous below with the occipito- mastoid suture between the occipital and the mastoid portion of the temporal. In or near this suture is the mastoid foramen, for the transmission of an emissary vein. The point of meeting of the parieto-mastoid, occipito-mastoid, and lambdoid sutures is known as the asterioyi. Immediately above the orbital margin is the superciliary ridge, and, at a higher level, the frontal eminence. Near the centre of the parietal bone is the parietal eminence. Posteriorly is the external occipital protuberance, from which the superior curved line may be followed forwards to the mastoid process. Arching across the side of the cranium are the temporal lines or ridges, which mark the upper limit of the temporal fossa. The temporal fossa is bounded above and behind by the temporal lines, which extend from the external angular process of the frontal bone upwards and backwards across the frontal and parietal bones, and then curve down- wards and forwards to become continuous with the supra-mastoid crest and the posterior root of the zygoma. The point where the upper temporal line cuts the coronal suture is named the stephanion. The temporal fossa is bounded in front by the frontal and malar bones, and opening on the back of the latter is a foramen which transmits the temporal branch of the temporo-malar nerve. Externally the fossa is limited by the zygomatic arch, formed by the malar and temporal bones ; below, it is separated from the zj'^gomatic fossa by the infra-temporal crest on the greater wing of the sphenoid, and hya, ridge, continuous with this crest, which is carried backwards across the squamous part of the temporal to the anterior root of the zygoma. In front and below, the fossa communicates with the orbital cavity through the spheno-maxUlary fissure. The floor of the fossa is deeply concave in front and convex beliind, and is formed by the malar, frontal, parietal, sphenoid, and temjioral bones. It is traversed by vascular furro\\-s : one, usually well marked, runs upwards above and in front of the external auditory meatus, and lodges the middle temporal artery. Two others, frequently indistinct, may be observed on the anterior part of the floor, and are for the anterior and posterior deep temporal arteries. The temporal fossa contains the Temporal muscle and its vessels and nerves, together with the temporal branch of the temporo-malar nerve. The zygomatic arch is formed by the zygomatic process of the temporal and the temporal process of the malar, the two being united by an oblique suture ; the tendon of the Temporal muscle passes under the arch to gain insertion into the coronoid process of the mandible. The zygomatic process of the temporal arises by two roots, an anterior, directed mwards in front of the glenoid cavity, where it expands to form the eminentia articularis, and a posterior, which runs backwards above the external auditory meatus and is continuous with the supra-mastoid crest. The upper border of the arch gives attachment to the temporal fascia; its lower border and inner surface give origin to the Below the posterior root of the zygoma is the elliptical orifice of the external auditory meatti^, bounded in front, below, and beliind by the tym- panic plate; to the outer margin of this plate the cartilaginous part of the external auditory meatus is attached. Tlie small triangular area between the posterior root of the zygoma and the postero-superior part of the