ANGIOLOGY 666 the back of the neck, between the Complexus and Semispinalis colli, as high as the axis, supplying these and adjacent muscles, and anastomosing with the deep branch of the arter ia princeps cervicis of the occipital, and with branches which pass outwards from the vertebral. It gives off a special branch which enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen between the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebrae. The Axilla The axilla is a pyramidal space, situated between the upper lateral part of the chest and the inner side of the arm. Boundaries.—Its u/pex, which is directed upwards towards the root of the neck, corresponds to the interval between the fii'st rib, the upper border of the scapula, and the clavicle, and through it the axillary vessels and nerves pass. The base, directed downwards, is formed by the integument and a tliick layer of fascia, the axillary fascia, extending between the lower border of the Pectoralis major in front, and the lower border of the Latissimus dorsi behind ; it is broad internally, at the chest, but narrow and jjointed externaUjr, at the arm. The anterior wall is formed by the Pectoralis major and minor muscles, the former covering the whole of the anterior wall, the latter only its central part. The space between the inner border of the Pectoralis minor and the clavicle is occupied by the costo-coracoid membrane. The posterior wall, wliicli extends somewhat lower than the anterior, is formed by the Sub- scapularis above, the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi belo^^■. On the inner side are the first four ribs with their corresponding Intercostal muscles, and part of the Serratus magnus. On the outer side, where the anterior and posterior walls converge, the space is narrow, and bounded by the humerus, the Coraco-brachialis, and the Biceps. Contents.—It contains the axillary vessels, and the brachial plexus of nerves, with their branches, some branches of the intercostal nerves, and a large number of lymphatic glands, together with a quantity of fat and loose areolar tissue. The axillary artery and vein, with the brachial plexus of nerves, extend obliquely along the outer boundary of the axilla, from its apex to its ijase, and are placed much nearer to the anterior than to the posterior wall, the vein lying to the inner or thoracic side of the artery and partiaUy concealing it. At .the fore part of the axHla, in contact with the Pectoral muscles, are the thoracic branches of the axillary artery, and along the lower margin of the Pectoralis minor the long thoracic artery extends to the side of the chest. At the back part, in contact with the lower margm of the Sub- scapularis, are the subscapular vessels and nerves ; winduag around the outer border of this muscle are the dorsalis scapulae vessels; and, close to the neck of the humerus, the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve curve backwards to the shoulder. Along the inner or thoracic side no vessel of any importance exists, the upper part of the space being crossed merely by a few small branches from the superior thoracic artery. There are some important nerves, however, in this situation, viz. the posterior thoracic or external respiratory nerve, descending on the surface of the Serratus magnus, to which it is distributed : and the intercosto-humeral nerve or nerves, perforating the upper and anterior part of this wall, and passing across the axilla to the inner side of the arm. The position and arrangement of the lymphatic glands are described on a subsequent J)age. Applied Anatomy.—The axilla is a space of considerable surgical importance. It traasraits the large vessels and nerves to the upper extremity, and these may be the seat of injury or disease : it contains numerous lymphatic glands which may require removal ; in it is a quantity of loose connective and adipose tissue wliicii may be readily infiltrated \vith blood or inflammatory exudation ; and it maybe the scat of rapidly growing tumours. Moreover, it is covered at its base by thin skin, \\hich is largely supplied with sebaceous and sweat glands, and is frequently the seat of small cutaneous abscesses and boils. Penetrating wounds in the axilla are sometimes accompanied by extensive haemor- rhage, either from wound of the main vessels, or of one of the large branches of the axilUw artery, e.g. the long thoracic or the subscapular. Where the blood cannot find an eas> exit externally, it collects in the axillary space and forms a large swclbng whic i projeci.s in the floor of the axilla and also bulges forwards the Pectoralis major. Ihe treatmem consists in freely opening up the cavity and searching for and securing the bleeding xesscj.