MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE THIGH 573 intenml or loiigest border is in relation v.nth the Gracilis, Sartorius. and fascia lata. By its external or attached border, it is inserted into the femur, behind the Adductor brovis and Adductor longus wliich seiJarate it from the Vastus internus, and in front of the Gluteus maximus and short head of the Biceps which separate it from the Vastus oxternus. Nerves.—The three Adductor muscles and the Gracilis are supplied by the third and fourth lumbar nerves through the obturator nerve ; the Adductor magnus receiving an additional branch from the sacral plexus through the great sciatic. The Pectineus is supplied by the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves through the anterior crural, and from the third lumbar by the accessory obturator when it exists. Occasionally it receives a branch from the obturator nerve.* Actions.—The Pectineus and three Adductors adduct the thigh powerfully ; they are especially used in horse exercise, the sides of the saddle being grasped between the knees by the contraction of these muscles. In consequence of the obliquity of their insertions into the linea aspera, they rotate the thigh outwards, assisting the external Rotators, and when the limb has been abducted, they draw it inwards, carr\ang the thigh across that of the opposite side. The Pectineus and Adductores brevis et longus assist the Psoas and Iliacus in flexing the thigh upon the pelvis. In progression, also, all these muscles assist in drawing forwards the lower limb. The Gracilis assists the Sartorius in flexing the leg and rotating it inwards ; it is also an adductor of the thigh. If the lower extremities be fixed, these muscles, taking their fixed points below, may act upon the pelvis, serving to inaintain the body in an erect posture ; or, if their action be continued, flex the pelvis forwards upon the femur. Applied Anatomy.—The Adductor longus is liable to be severely strained in those who ride much on horseback, or its tendon may be ruptured by suddenly gripping the saddle. Occasionally, especially in cavalry soldiers, the tendon may become ossified, constituting the ' rider's bone.' 3. Gluteal Region (fig. 544) Gluteus maximus. Obturator internus. Gluteus medius. Gemellus superior. Gluteus minimus. Gemellus inferior. Pyriforrais. Quadratus femoris. Obturator oxternus. The Gluteus maximus, the most superficial muscle in the gluteal region, is a very broad and thick fleshy mass, of a quadi-ilateral shape, and forms the prominence of the nates. Its large size is one of the most charac- teristic points in the muscular system in man, connected as it is with the power he has of maintaining the trunk in the erect posture. In structure the muscle is remarkably coarse, being made up of muscular fasciculi lying parallel with one another, and collected together into large bundles separated by deep cellular intervals. It arises from the superior cui'ved line of the ilium, and the rough portion of bone, including the crest, immediately above and behind it; fi-om the posterior surface of the loM'er part of the sacrum and the side of the coccyx ; from the aponeurosis of the Erector spina;, the great sacro- sciatic ligament, and the fascia (gluteal aponeurosis) covering the Gluteus medius. The fibres are directed obliquel}' dow nwards and outwards ; those forming the upper and larger portion of the muscle, together with the super- ficial fibres of the lower portion, terminate in a thick tendinous lamina, which passes across the gi-eat trochanter, and is inserted into the fascia lata covering tlie outer side of the thigh ; the deeper fibres of the lower portion of the muscle are inserted into the rough line leading fi-om the great trochanter to the linea aspera between the Vastus externus and Adductor magnus. * Paterson describes the Pectineus as consisting of two incompletely separated strata ; the outer or dorsal stratum, which is constant, is supplied by a branch from tlie anterior crural nerve, or in the absence of this branch by the accessory obturator, with which it is intimately related ; while the inner or ventral stratum, when present, is supplied by the obturator nerve.—Jo urwd of Anatomy mid Phy^ialcgy, vol. xxvi. p. 43.