DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN 125 of Monro. It increases in size, and by the second month is seen as aswelhng in the floor of the future lateral ventricle ; this swelUng reaches as far as the posterior end of the primitive hemisphere, and as a consequence when this part of the hemisphere arows backwards and downwards to form the temporal lobe, the posterior part of the corpus striatum is carried into the roof of the descending horn, where it is seen as the tail of the caudate nucleus in the adult brain. During the fourth and fifth months the corpus striatum becomes incompletely subdivided by the fibres oi the internal capsule into two masses, an inner, the caudate nucleus, and an outer, the lenticular nucleus. In front, the corpus striatum is continuous mth the grey matter of the locus perforatus anticus ; externally it is confluent for a tinie with that portion of the waU of the vesicle which is developed into the island of Reil, but the continuity is subsequently interrupted by the fibres of the external The neopallium forms the remaining, and by far the greater part of the cerebral hemisphere. It consists, at an early stage, of a relatively large, more or less hemispherical cavity—the primitive lateral ventricle—enclosed by a thin wall Fig. 158.—Median section of brain of human embryo of three months. (From model by His.) Choroidal fissure Wi inencephalon Lamina terminalis Corpus strialiim Optic recess Chiasma Pituitary body Becessus infundibuli from which the grey cortex of the hemisphere is developed. The vesicle expands in all directions, but more especially upwards and backwards, so that by the third month the hemispheres cover the diencephalon, by the sixth they overlap the mid-brain, and by the eighth the hind-brain. The hemispheres are separated by a deep cleft, the forerunner of the great longitudinal fissure, and this cleft is occupied by a septum of mesodermal tissue which constitutes the primitive falx cerebri. Coincidently with the expansion of the vesicle, its cavity is drawn out into three prolongations which represent the horns of the future lateral ventricle ; the posterior extremity of the vesicle is carried downwards and forwards and forms the descending horn, the posterior horn being produced somewhat later, in association with the back- ward growth of the occipital lobe of the hemisphere. The roof-plate of the fore-brain remains thin and of an epithehal character; it is invaginated into the lateral ventricle along the mesial wall of the hemisphere. This invagination constitutes the choroidal fissure, and extends from the foramen of Monro to the posterior end of the vesicle. Mesodermal tissue, continuous with