397 SYMPHYSIS PUBIS Made near its posterior siu-face. Iliialine cartilage eocerimj houe /nlennediale flbro-c Cavity at upiKr and forming an interlacement with the fibres of the aponeurosis of the External oblique and the inner tendons of origm of the Recti The deep fibres pass transversely across the sympliysis, and are blended with the fibro-cartilage. ^ • \ ■ t t t The Posterior Pubic Lig-ament (lig. pubicum posterms) consists of a few thin, scattered fibres, which unite the two pubic bones posterioiiy. The Superior Pubic Ligament (lig. pubicum superms) is a band of fibres, which connects together the two pubic bones superiorly. The Subpubic Ligament (lig. pubicum inferius) is a thick, triangular arch of lio-amentous fibres, connectmg together the two pubic bones below, and formtng the upper boundary of the pubic arch. Above, it is blended with the interarticular fibro-cartUage ; lateraUy, it is attached to the descending rami of the pubic bones ; below, it is free, and is separated from the triangular y^.^ 445.—Coronal section of the symphysis ligament of the perinseum by an open- pubis, ing through which the deep dorsal vein of the penis passes into the pelvis. The Interpubic Disc (lamma fibrocartilaginea interpubica) connects the opposed surfaces of the pubic bones. Each of the bony surfaces is covered by a thin layer of hyaline cartilage firmly connected to the bone by a series of nipple-like processes whicli accurately fit within corre- sponding depressions on the osseous surfaces. These opposed cartilaginous surfaces are connected together by an intermediate lamina of fibro-cartilage which varies in thiclmess m different subjects. It often contains a cavity in its interior, probably formed by the softening and absorption of the fibro-cartilage, since it rarely appears before the tenth year of life and is not lined by synovial membrane. This cavity- is larger in the female than in the male, but it is very doubtful whether it enlarges, as was formerly supposed, during pregnancJ^ It is most frequently limited to the upper and back part of the joint; but it occasionally reaches to the front, and may extend the entire length of the cartilage. It may be easily demonstrated by making a coronal section of the symphysis pubis near its posterior surface (fig. 445). The Obturator Membrane (membrana obturatoria) is more properly regarded as analogous to the muscular fasciae, with which it wiU be described (page 575). Mechanism of the Pelvis The pelvic girdle supports and protects the contained viscera and affords surfaces lor the attachments of the trunk and lower hmb muscles. Its most important mechanical function, however, is to transmit the weight of the trunk and upper limbs to the lower extremities. It may be divided into two arches by a vertical plane passing through the acetabular cavities ; the posterior of these arches is the one chiefly concerned iu the function of transmitting the weight. Its essential parts are the upper three sacral vcrtebrse and two strong pillars of bone rmining from the sacro-iliac articula- tions to the acetabular cavities. For the reception and diffusion of the weight the acetabular cavity is strengthened by two additional bars running towards the pubis and ischium. In order to lessen concussion in rapid changes of distribution of the weight, joints (sacro-ihac articulations) are interposed between the sacrum and the ihac bones ; an accessory joint (symphysis pubis) exists in the middle of the anterior arch. The sacrum forms the summit of the posterior arch ; the weight transmitted falls on it at the lumbo-sacral articulation and, theoretically, has a component in each of two directions. One component of the force is expended in driving the sacrum downwards and backwards between the iliac bones.