1235 THE THYROID BODY The Thyroid Body (fig. 1021) The thyroid body is a highly vascular organ, situated at the front and sides of the nock ; it consists of tw o lateral lobes connected across the middle line by a narro\^' transverse portion, the isthmus. The weight of the thyroid body is somewhat variable, but is usually about one ounce. It is slightly heavier in the female, in whom it becomes enlarged during menstruation and pregnancy. The lobes are conical in shape, the ajaex of each being directed upwards and outwards as far as the junction of the middle with the lower third of tlio thyroid cartilage ; the base looks downwards, and is on a level witli the fifth or sixth tracheal ring. Each lobe is about two inches in length ; its greatest width is about an inch and a quarter, and its thickness about three-quarters of an inch. The external or superficial surface is convex, and covered by the skin, the superficial and deep fasciae, the Sterno-niastoid, the anterior belly of the Fig. 1021.—The thyroid gland and its relations. Omo-hyoid, the Sterno-liyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, and beneath the last muscle by the pre-tracheal layer of the deep fascia, which forms a capsule for the gland. The deep or internal surface is moulded over the underlying structures, viz. the thyi'oid and cricoid cartilages, the trachea, the Inferior constrictor and posterior part of the Crico-thyroid muscles, the oesophagus (particularly on the left side of the neck), the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, and the recurrent laryngeal nerves. The anterior border is thin, and inclines obliquely from above downwards and inwards towards the middle line of the neck, while the posterior border is thick and overlaps the common carotid artery. The isthmus connects together the lower thirds of the two latei-al lobes ; it measures about half an inch in breadth, and the same in depth, and usuallv covers the second and third rings of tlie trachea. Its situation and size present, however, many variations, and this must be remembered in performing tracheotomy. In the middle line of the neck it is covered by tiie skin and 4 K /;