FIBULA 349 Fig. 401.—Plan of ossification of the fibula. From three centres. U2)]>er extremity Appears about 4th year Unites about 25th year n small Drominent, triangular eminence slightly above the level of the tubercle of the tibia The external maUcolus is a narrow, elongated prominence, situated on a plane uosterior to the internal malleolus and reaching to a lower level. From it may be traced the lower third or half of the external surface of the shaft of the bone in the mterval between the Peroneus tertius m front and the tendons of the other two Peronei belund. Applied Anatomy.—In fractures of the bones of the leg, both bones are generaUy fractured, but either bone may be broken separately, the fibula more frequently than the tibia. Fracture of both bones may be caused by either direct or indirect violence. When it occurs from indirect force, the fracture in the tibia is at the junction of the middle and lower thu-d of the bone. Many causes conduce to render this the weakest part of the bone. The fracture of the fibula is usually at a rather higher level. These fractures present great variety, both as regards then- direction and con- dition. They may be oblique, transverse, longi- tudinal, or spu-al. When oblique, they are for the most part the result of indirect violence, and the direction of the fracture is downwards, forwards, and inwards in many cases, but may be downwards and outwards, or downwards and backwards. When transverse, the fracture is often at the upper part of the bone, and is the result of direct violence. The spiral fracture of the tibia generally starts as a vertical fissure, involving the ankle-joint, and is associated with fracture of the fibula higher up. It is the result of torsion, from twisting of the body while the foot is fixed. Fractures of the tibia alone are almost always the result of direct violence, except where the malleolus is broken off by twists of the foot. Fractures of the fibula alone may arise from indirect or direct force, those of the lower end being usually the result of the former, and those higher up being caused by a direct blow on the part. The tibia is the bone which is most commonly and most extensively distorted in rickets. It bends at the junction of the middle and lower third, its weakest part, and presents a curve forwards with generally some lateral displacement. The tibia is more often the seat of acute infective necrosis than any other bone in the body, and with the formation of the sequestrum, a large amount of new bony material is thrown out by the periosteum. The sequence of events in this disease can be very closely followed in the case of the tibia, and it is not uncommon to find a patient from whom the whole diaphysis of the tibia has been removed, going about with a new bone entu-ely of periosteal formation. Chronic bone abscess is more frequently met with in the cancellous tissue of the head or lower end of the tibia than in any other bone in the body. These abscesses are very chi-onic, and in most cases the result of tuberculous osteitis, although they are sometimes due to the organisms of suppuration or even the Bacillus typhosus. THE FOOT The skeleton of the foot (figs. 402 and 403) consists of three parts : tlie tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges. THE TARSUS The Tarsal bones (ossa tarsi) are seven in number: viz. the os calcis, astra- galus, cuboid, navicular, and the internal, middle, and external cuneiforms. Appears at 2nd year Lower extremity Unites about 20th year The Os Calcis (fig. 404) The Os Calcis (calcaneus) is the largest and strongest of the tarsal bones. It is situated at the lower and back part of the foot, serving to transmit the weight of the body to the ground, and forming a strong lever for the rnuscles of the calf. It is irregularly cuboidal in form, having its long axis directed forwards and outwards ; it presents for examination six surfaces.