285 DISEASES OP THE SKULL In connection with the bones of the face a common malformation is cleft palate. The cleft usually starts posteriorly, and in its most elementary form may consist simply of a bifid uvula ; or the cleft may extend through the soft palate ; or the posterior part or the whole of the hard palate may be involved, the cleft extending as far forwards as the anterior palatine canal. In the severest forms, the cleft extends through the alveolus and passes between the premaxillary bone and the rest of the upper jaw ; that is to say, between the lateral incisor and canine teeth. In some instarces, the cleft has been noticed to pass outwards between' the central and lateral incisor teeth ; and this has induced some anatomists to believe that the premaxillary bone is developed from two centres (fig. 347) and not from one, as was stated in the description of the bone. The mesial segment, bearing a central incisor, is called an endogiiathion ; the lateral segment, bearing the lateral incisor, is called a mesognathion; and the rest of the maxilla is termed the exognathion. The cleft may affect one or both sides; if the latter, the central part is frequently displaced forwards and remains united to the septum of the nose, the deficiency in the alveolus being complicated with a cleft in the lip (hare-lip). On examining a cleft palate in which the alveolus is not implicated, the cleft will generally appear to be in the mesial line, but occasionally is unilateral and in some cases bilateral. To understand this it must be borne in mind that three processes are concerned in the formation of the palate—the two palatal processes of the maxillre, which grow in horizontally and unite in the middle line ; and the ethmo-vomerine process, which grows downwards from the base of the skull and fronto-nasal process to unite with the palatal process in the mesial line. In those cases where the palatal processes fail to unite with each other and with the mesial process, the cleft of the palate is median ; where one palatal process unites with the mesial septum, the other failing to do so, the cleft in the palate is unilateral. The right process is the one which usuallj' joins, and tho cleft is therefore on the left side. In some cases where the palatal processes fail to meet in the middle, the ethmo-vomerine process grows down- wards into the cleft and thus produces a bilateral cleft. Occasionally there may be a hole in the middle line of the hard palate, the anterior part of the hard and the soft palate being perfect, but this is rare, because, as a rule, the union of the various processes progresses from before backwards, and there- fore the posterior part of the palate is more Fig. 347.—The premaxilla and its frequently defective than the anterior. sutmres (after Albrecht) The bones of the face are sometimes fractured as the result of direct violence. The two most Endognathion commonly broken are the nasal bone and the Mesognathion mandible, and of these, the latter is by far the Exognathion most frequently fractured of all the bones of the face. Fracture of the nasal bone is for the most part transverse, and takes place about half an inch from the free margin. The broken portion maj' be displaced backwards or more generally to one side by the force which produced the lesion, as there are no muscles here which can cause displacement. The malar bone is probably never broken alone—that is to say, without fracture of some of the other bones of the face. The zygomatic arch is occasionally fractured, and when this occurs from direct violence, as is usually the case, the fragments may be displaced inwards. Fractures of the maxilla may vary much in degree, from the chipping off of a portion of the alveolar arch, to an extensive comminution of the whole bone from severe violence, as the kick of a horse. The most common situation for a fracture of the mandible is in the neighbourhood of the canine tooth, as at this spot the bone is weakened by the deep socket for the fang of this tooth ; it is next most frequently fractured at the angle; then at the symphysis ; and finally the neck of the condyle or the coronoid process may be broken. Occasionally a double fracture may occm-, one in either half of the bone. The fractures are usually compoimd, from laceration of the mucous membrane covering the gums. The displacement is mainly the result of the same violence as produced the injury, but may be further increased by the action of the muscles passing from the neighbourhood of the symphysis to the hyoid bone. The maxilla and the mandible are frequently the seat of necrosis ; but the disease more often a,ffects the lower than the upper jaw. It may be the result of periostitis from tooth irritation, injury, or the action of some specific poison, as syphilis, or from salivation by mercury ; it sometimes occurs in children after attacks of the exanthematous fevers, and a special form occurs from tho action of the fumes of phosphorus in persons engaged in the manufacture of matches. In the vast majority of cases, however, it is of dental origin. Tumours originate in the jaw-bones not infrequently, and may be either innocent or malignant. In the maxilla cysts may occur in the antrum ; or in either jaw in connection with the teeth ; those connected with the roots of fully developed teeth are known as aental cysts ; those connected with unerupted teeth, dentigerous cysts. Malignant tumours show a marked degree of malignancy when occurring in the maxilla. ihe maxilla sometimes requires removal for tumours or other conditions. In order to remove it, the patient should be placed in the recumbent position, in a good light, with