OSTEOLOGY 312 surface presents two articular facets; of these, the superior or smaller is flattened, of semilunar form, and articulates with the semilunar ; the inferior or larger is concave, forming witli the semilunar bone a concavity for the head of the OS magnum. Articulations.—The scaphoid articulates mth five bones : the radius above, trapezium and trapezoid below, os magnum and semilunar internally. Semilxjnar (fig. 365) The Semilunar (os lunatum) may be distinguished by its deep conca\aty and crescentic outline. It is situated in the centre of the upper row of the carpus, between the scaphoid and cuneiform. The superior surface, convex and smooth, articulates with the radius. The inferior surface is deeplj'^ concave, and of greater extent from before backwards than transversely : it articulates with the head ]?IG. 365.—^The left semilunar. For cuneifomi For radius of the OS magnum, and, by a long, narrow facet (separated by a ridge from the general surface), with the unciform. The palmar and dorsal sur- faces are rough, for the attachment of ligaments, the former being the broader, and of a some- what rounded form. The external surface presents a narrow, flattened, semilunar facet for articulation with the scaphoid. The internal surface is marked by a smooth, quadrilateral facet, for articulation with the cuneiform. Articulations.—The semilunar articulates with five bones : the radius above, OS magnum and unciform below, scaphoid externally and cimeiform internally. For scaj>hoid For unciform For os magnum CuNBrFORM (fig. 366) The Cuneiform (os triquetrum) may be distinguished by its pyramidal shape, and by an oval isolated facet for articulation with the pisiform bone. It is situated at the upper and inner side of the carpus. The superior surface presents an internal, rough, non-articular portion, and an external convex articular portion, which articulates with the triangular fibro-cartilage of the wrist. The inferior surface, directed outwards, is concave, sinuously curved, and smooth for articulation with the unciform. The dorsal surface is rough for the attachment of ligaments. The palmar surface presents, on its inner Fig. 366.—The left cuneiform. For pisiform For semilunar Fig. 367.—The left pisiform. For cuneiform For unciforiii part, an oval facet, for articulation with tiie pisiform ; its outer part is rough for ligamentous attachment. The external surface, the base of the pyramid, is marked by a flat, quadrilateral, smooth facet, for articulation with tlie semilunar. Tlie internal surface, the summit of the pyramid, is pointed and roughened, for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the wrist. Articulations.—The cuneiform articulates vAih. three bones : the semilunar externally, the pisiform in front, the unciform below ; and with the triangular, interarticular fibro-cartilage which separates it from the lower cud of the ulna.