THE FISSURES OF THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES 857 ascendens) extends upwards into the same convolution for about an equal distance. The posterior limb (ramus jaosterior) is the longest; it is carried backwards and slightly upwards for about three inches, and terminates by an upward inflexion in the parietal lobe. The fissure of Rolando (sulcus centralis) (figs. 726, 727) is situated about the middle of the outer surface of the hemisphere, and commences in or near the great longitudinal fissure, a little behind its mid-point. It runs sinuously downwards and forwards, and terminates a Uttle above the posterior limb of the fissiu'e of Sylvius, and about an inch behind the ascending limb of the same fissure. It describes two chief curves : an upper or superior genu %\ ith its concavity directed forwards, and a lower or inferior genu with its concavity directed backwards. The fissure of Rolando forms an angle opening forwards, of about seventy degrees with the mesial plane. The parieto-occipital fissure (fissura parietooccipitalis) (fig. 729).—Only a small part of this fissure is seen on the outer surface of the hemisphere, its chief part being situated on the mesial surface. That on the outer surface is usually named the external, and that on the mesial aspect the internal parieto-occipital fissure. The external parieto-occipital fissure is situated about two inches from the posterior extremity or occipital pole of the hemisphere, and extends on to the outer surface for about half an inch. The internal parieto-occipital fissure runs downwards and forwards as a deep cleft on the mesial surface of the hemisphere, and joins the calcarine fissure below and behind the posterior end of the corpus callosum. On separating the hps of this fissure, it will be seen in most cases to contain a submerged • convolution. The calcarine fissure (fissura calcarina) (fig. 729) is situated on the mesial : sm-face of the hemisphere. It begins near the occipital pole in a bifid extremity, . and runs almost horizontally forward to a pomt a little below the splenium of ' the corpus callosum : it is jomed at an acute angle by the internal parieto- ' occipital fissure. The calloso-marginal fissure (sulcus cinguli) (fig. 729) is situated on the I mesial surface of the hemisphere ; it commences below the anterior end of the corpus callosum and runs upwards and forwards nearly parallel to the rostrum of : this body and, curving in front of the genu, is continued backwards above t the corpus callosum, and finally ascends to the upper margin of the hemisphere ^ a short distance behind the upper extremity of the fissure of Rolando. It " sepai-ates the margmal convolution from the callosal convolution. T^? collateral fissure (fissura coUateralis) (fig. 729) is situated on the r tentorial surface of the hemisphere, and extends from near the occipital to Mithin a short distance of the temporal pole. Behind, it lies below and to the outer side of the calcarme fissure, from M-hich it is separated by the gyrus imguahs ; m front, it is situated between tlie hippocampal convolution and ine anterior part of the temporo-occipital convolution. The sulcus circularis of Reil (fig. 731) is situated on the lower and lateral - ^urtaces of the hemisphere : it surrounds the island of Reil and separates It irom the frontal, parietal and temporal lobes. fprf • hemispheres.—By means of these fissures, assisted by ^ertam arbitrary Hnes, each hemisphere is divided into the following lobes • ine /ronton, the parietal, the temporal, the occipital, the limbic, and the insula, tL 1 u °J The first four of these lobes are named after the bones of \I JI^- T "^'"^^y relation, but it must be borne in mind ■ ^uai tiieirhmits do not correspond accurately with the margins of these bones. : tliJc 1 ^° , frontahs).—On tlie outer surface of the hemispliere '™ extends from the frontal pole to the fissure of Rolando, the latter . eparating it from the parietal lobe. Below, it is hmited by the posterior limb i ine nssure of Sylvius, which intervenes between it and the temporal lobe, fissn surface, it is separated from the limbic lobe by the calloso-marginal tha « i' .^"^"^ °" the under surface, it is bounded behind by the posterior limb of uie Sylvian fissure. ■ ^vlt^T-^l T-^"'^^ ^^"^ ^""^^ (^g- '^27) is traversed by three sulci which 8unprir^l. convolutions : the sulci are named the precentral, and the lienor and inferior frontal, while the convolutions are the precentral, and