538 MYOLOGY the tuberosity. As the tendon of the muscle approaches the radius it is twisted upon itself, so that its anterior surface becomes external and is applied to the tuberosity of the radius at its insertion. Opposite the bend of the elbow the tendon gives off, from its inner side, a broad aponeurosis, the bicipital fascia (semilunar fascia), which passes obliquely downwards and inwards across the brachial artery, and is continuous with the deep fascia covering the origins of the Flexor muscles of the forearm (fig. 517). A third head to the Biceps is occasionally found, arising at the upper and inner part of the Brachialis anticus with the fibres of which it is continuous, and inserted into the bicipital fascia and inner side of the tendon of the Biceps. In most cases this additional slip passes behind the brachial artery in its course down the arm. In some instances the third head consists of two slips, which pass down, one in front of, the other behind the artery, concealing the vessel in the lower half of the arm. Relations.—Its anterior surface is overlapped above by the Pectoralis major and Deltoid ; in the rest of its extent it is covered by the superficial and deep fasciae and the integument. Its posterior surface rests above on the shoulder-joint and upper part of the humerus ; below, it lies on the Brachialis anticus, with the musculo-cutaneous nerve intervening between the two, and on the Supinator brevis. Its inner border is in relation with the Coraco-brachialis, and overlaps the brachial vessels and median nerve ; its outer border, with the Deltoid and Brachio-radiahs. The Brachialis anticus (m. brachiahs) is a broad muscle, which covers the elbow-joint and the lower half of the front of the humerus. It is some- what compressed from before backwards, and is broader in the middle than at either extremity. It arises from the lower half of the front of the humerus ; and commences above at the insertion of the Deltoid, which it embraces by two angular processes. Its origin extends below to within an inch of the margin of the articular surface. It also arises from the intermuscular septa, but more extensively from the inner than the outer; it is separated from the outer below by the Brachio-radiaUs and Extensor carpi radialis longior. Its fibres con- verge to a thick tendon, which is inserted into the tubercle of the idna and the rough depression on the anterior surface of the coronoid process, bemg received into an interval between two fleshy shps of the Flexor profundus digitorum. Relations.—The Brachiahs anticus is in relation by its aivterior sur face with the Biceps, the brachial vessels, musculo-cutaneous and median nerves; by its posterior surface, with the humerus and front of the elbow-joint; by its inner border, with the Triceps, ulnar nerve, and Pronator teres, from which it is separated by the mtermuscular septum ; by its outer border, with the musculo-spiral nerve, radial recurrent artery, the Brachio- radiaUs, and Extensor carpi radialis longior. Nerves.—The muscles of this group are suppUed by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The Brachiahs anticus usually receives an additional filament from the musculo- spiral. The Coraco-brachialis receives its supply prunarily from the seventh cervical, the Biceps and Brachialis anticus from the fifth and sixth cer-sacal nerves. Actions.—The Coraco-brachiahs draws the humerus forwards and mwards, and at the same time assists in retainmg the head of the bone in contact vnth the glenoid cavitv. The Biceps is a flexor of the elbow and, to a less extent, of the shoulder : it' is also a powerful supmator, and serves to render tense the deep fascia of the forearm bv means of the bicipital fascia given off from its tendon. The Brachialis anticus is a flexor of the forearm, and forms an important defence to the elbow-jomt. When the forearm is fixed, the Biceps and Brachiahs anticus flex the arm upon the forearm, as is seen in efforts of chmbiug. Applied Anatomy.—The long tendon of the Biceps is sometimes dislocated from the bicipital groove. When this takes place, the arm becomes fixed in a position of abduction, but the head of the humerus can be felt in its proper position. It can generaUy be replaced by flexing the forearm on the arm and rotating the limb. Rupture of the long tendon of the Biceps may also take place. 7. Posterior Humeral Region Triceps. Subanconeus. The Triceps (m. triceps brachii) (fig. 520) is situated on the back of the arm, extending the entire length of the posterior surface of the humerus, it is of large size, and divided above into three parts, hence its name, liieso