THORACIC DUCT 765 Bight lymjihatic duct connections, whose existence normally remains unsuspected, develop to a surprising extent between groups of lymphatic glands that at first sight appear to bo unconnected u ith one another. Thoracic Duct The thoracic duct (ductus thoracicus) (fig. 647) conveys the great mass of the lymph and chyle into the blood. It is the common trunk of all the lymphatic vessels of the body, excepting those of the right Fig. 647.—The thoracic and riglit lymphatic ducts, side of the head, neck, and thorax, and right upper ex- tremity, the right lung, right side of the heart, and the convex surface of the liver. In the adult it varies in length from fifteen to eighteen inches, and extends from the second lumbar vertebra to the root of the neck. It commences in the abdomen by a triangular dilatation, the receptaculum chyli, which is situated on the front of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, to the right side of and beliind the aorta, by the side of the right crus of the Diaphragm. It enters the tiiorax througli the aortic opening of the Diaphragm, and is then placed in the posterior mediastinum be- tween the aorta and vena azygos major. Here it lies in front of the vertebral column, from which it is sepa- rated by the right intercostal arteries, and by the azygos minor veins as thej' cross the middle line to open into the vena azygos major. Opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra, it inchnes towards tlie left side, enters tlie superior mediasti- num, and ascends behind the arch of the aorta, on the left side of the oesophagus, and behind the first portion of the left subclavian artery, to the upper orifice of the thorax. Opposite the seventh cervical vertebra, it turns outwards in front of the vertebral vein and artery, behind the left common carotid artery and vagus nerve, and then curves downwards over the subcla- vian artery, and in front of the Scalenus anticus muscle and the phrenic nerve, so as to form an arch ; it terminates th \t ^"^^^ junction of the left subclavian vein with the left internal jugular vein. The thoracic uct, at Its commencement, is about equal in diameter to a goose-quiU, Intercostal glands