LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX 791 the glands on the oesophagus and to those around the termination of the mferior vena cava; and (c) posterior, to the glands which surround the aorta at the point where this vessel leaves the thoracic cavity. The plexus on the abdominal surface is composed of fine vessels, and anasto- moses with the lymphatics of the liver and, at the periphery of the Diapliragra, with those of the subperitoneal tissue. The efferents from the right half of this plexus terminate partly in a group of glands on the trunk of the corresponding inferior phrenic artery, while others end in the right lateral aortic glands. Those from the left half of tlie plexus pass to the pre- and lateral aortic glands and to the glands on tlie terminal portion of the oesophagus. ]7i(5. 670.—Disposition and relations of the tracheo-bronchial lymphatic glands. (From a figiure designed by M. Hall6, and printed in 'La Clinique M(5dicale,' tome iv.) 1. CEsopbagns. 2. Trachea. 3. Innominate arterj'. i. Arcli o£ aorta. 5. Left subclavian artery. 0. Left common carotid artery. 7. Thoracic aorta. 8. ffisophagus. 9. Right bronchus. 10. Left bronchus. 11. Right vagus nerve. 12. Right recurrent laryngeal nerve. 13, 14. Right posterior pulmonary plexus. 15. Oisophageal plexus. IG. Left vagus nerve. 17. Left recurrent laryngeal nerve. 18, 19. Left posterior pulmonary plexus. 20. Glands accom- panying right recurrent laryngeal nerve. 21. Glands accompanying left recurrent laryngeal nerve. 22. Right tracheo-bronchial glands. 23. Left tracheo-bronchial glands. 2-1, 25. Interbronchial glands. 20. Glands below bifurcation of trachea. The visceral lymphatic glands consist of three groups, viz. anterior mediastinal, posterior mediastinal, and tracheo-bronchial. The anterior mediastinal glands (lymphoglandulfB mediastinales an- teriores) are placed in the anterior part of the superior mediastinum, in front of the arch of the aorta and in relation to the innominate veins and the large arterial trunks which arise from the aortic arch. They receive afferents from the thymus gland and pericardium, and from the internal mammary glands ; their efferents unite with those of the tracheo-bronchial glands, to form the right and left broncho-mediastinal trunks.