565 MUSCLES AND PASCI.E OF THE ILIAC REGION Relations.—In" the abdomen the Psoas magnus is in relation by its anterior surface \\\th. the ligamentum arcuatum internum, the fascia covering the muscle, the extra- peritoneal fat and peritoneum, the kidney, Psoas parvus, rpnal vessels, ureter, spermatic vessels, and genito-crural nerve. In front of the right Psoas is the inferior vena cava and the terminal portion of the ileum, and in front of the left the ilio-pelvic colon. By its posterior surface it is in relation wth the transverse processes of the lumbar vortebrre, and the Quadratus lumborum from which it is separated by the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia. The lumbar plexus is situated in the posterior part of the substance of the muscle. By its inner side, the muscle is in relation with the bodies of the lumbar vertebras, the lumbar arteries, the gangliated cord of the sympathetic, and the lumbar glands ; with the vena cava inferior on the right, and the aorta on the left side, and along the brim of the pelvis Mith the external iliac artery. In the thigh it is in relation, in front, with the fascia lata ; behind, with the capsular ligament of the hip, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa which frequently communicates \vith the cavity of the joint through an opening of variable size ; by its inner border, vnth the Pectineus and internal circumflex artery, and also with the femoral artery, which slightly overlaps it; by its outer border, with the anterior crural nerve and Iliacus. 'The Psoas parvus (m. psoas minor) is a long slender muscle, placed in front of the Psoas magnus. It arises from the sides of the bodies of the last thoracic and first lumbar vertebrae and from the intervertebral disc between them. It forms a small muscular bundle, which ends in a long flat tendon, inserted into the ilio-pectmeal line and eminence, and, by its outer border, into the fascia iliaca. This muscle is often absent, and sometimes double. The Iliacus is a flat, triangular muscle, which fills up the wliole of the niac fossa. It arises from the upper two-thirds of this fossa, and from the inner margin of the crest of the ilium ; beliind, from the anterior sacro-Hiac and tlie ilio-lumbar ligaments, and base of the sacrum ; in front, it reaches as far as the anterior superior and anterior inferior spinous processes of the ilium, and the notch between them. The fibres converge to be uiserted into the outer side of the tendon of the Psoas, some of them being prolonged on to the shaft of the femur for about an inch below and in front of the lesser trochanter.* Relations.—Within the abdomen the lUacus is m relation by its anterior surface \vith the iliac fascia, which separates the muscle from the extra-peritoneal fat and peritoneum, and with the external cutaneous nerve ; on the right side, with the ca3cum ; on the left side, with the ihac colon ; by its 'posterior surface, with the iliac fossa; by its inner border, w ith the Psoas magnus, and anterior crural nerve. In the thigh, it is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the fascia lata. Rectus, Sartorius, and profunda femoris artery ; behmd, with the capsule of the hip-joint, a synovial bursa common to it and the Psoas magnus being interposed. Nerves.—The Psoas magnus is supplied by branches of the second aud third lumbar nerves ; the Psoas parvus by a branch of the first hmibar nerve ; and the lUacus by branches of the second and third lumbar nerves through the anterior Actions.—The Psoas, acting from above, flexes the thigh upon the pelvis, being assisted by the Ihacus ; acting from below, with the femur fixed, the Psoas bends the lumbar portion of the vertebral column forwards and to its own side, and then, in conjunction with the Ihacus, tilts the pelvis forwards. When the muscles of both sides are acting ivom below, they serve to maintain the erect posture, by supporting the vertebral column aud pelvis upon the femora, or in continued action bend the trunk and pehds forwards, as in raising the trunk from the recumbent posture. The Psoas parvus is a tensor of the iUac fascia. Applied Anatomy.—There, is no definite septum between the portions of fascia covering the Psoas and Iliacus respectively, and the fascia is only connected to the subjacent muscles by a quantity of loose connective tissue. When an abscess forms beneatii this fascia, as it is very apt to do, the matter is contained in an osseo-fibrous cavity which is closed on all sides within the abdomen, and is open only at its lower part, where the fascia is prolonged over the muscle into the thigh. * The Psoas and Iliacns are sometimes regarded as a single muscle, the Ilio-pnoas, having two heads of origin and a single insertion.