394 SYNDESMOLOGY patches of softer fibro-cartilage, and at tliek upper and posterior part by fine interosseous fibres. In a considerable part of their extent, especially in advanced life, they are not connected together, but are separated by a space containing a synovia-like fluid, and hence the joint presents the characters of a diarthrosis. Tlie ligaments connecting these surfaces are the anterior and posterior sacro-iliac. The Anterior Sacro-iliac Ligament (lig. sacroiliacum anterius) (fig. 442) consists of numerous thin bands, which connect the anterior surfaces of the sacrum and ilium. The Posterior Sacro-iliac Ligament (lig. sacroiliacum posterius) (fig. 443) is a strong ligament, situated in a deep depression between the sacrum and ilium behind, and forming the chief bond of connection between those bones. It consists of numerous strong fasciculi, which pass between the bones in various directions. The upper part of the ligament (Ug. sacroiliacum posterius breve) is nearly horizontal m direction, and passes Fig. 443.—Articulations of pelvis and hip. Posterior view. ilf Small sacro-sciatic liga ment from the first and second transverse tubercles on the posterior surface of the sacrum to the rough, uneven surface at the posterior part of tlie mner surface of the ilium. The lower part (Ug. sacroiliacum posterius lougum) oblique m direction, is attached by one extremity to the third ransve^se tubercle on the posterior surface of the sacrum, and by the othei to t e posterior superior spme of the ilium ; the lov\ er part is sometimes caUed tlie oblique sacro-iliac ligament. Surface Form.-The position of the sacro-iliac joint is indicated by the posterior superior spine of the ilium. This process is immediately behind the centre of the articulation. 2. Ligaments passing between the Sacexjm and Ischiuji (fig. 444) The Great Sacro-sciatic. The Small Sacro-sciatic. The Great or Posterior Sacro-sciatic Ligament (lig. f £ situated at the lower and back part of the pelvis. It is flat, and tiiangular