EMBRYOLOGY iOO ca clc. vessels of the latter become atrophied and the villi over the corresponding part of the chorion disappear. On the other hand the placental vilU, which invade the decidua placentalis, branch repeatedly, increase enormously in size, and constitute the foetal part of the placenta (fig. 124). These greatly ramified vilU are suspended in the maternal blood sinuses. Fig. 125.—Diagram to illustrate the fii'st phase of and are therefore bathed in the placenta. (After Peters.) maternal blood, which is con- veyed to the sinuses by the uterine arteries and carried away by the uterine veins. A branch of an umbilical artery enters each villus and ends in a capillary plexus from which the blood is drained by a tributary of the umbilical vein. The vessels of the villus are surrounded by a thin layer of mesoderm consist- ing of gelatinous connective tissue, which is covered by two strata of ectodermal cells derived from the trophoblast: the deeper stratum, next the mesodermic tissue, represents the layer of Langhans ; the superficial, in contact with the maternal blood, the syncytium.* The maternal portion of the placenta is formed by the decidua placentaUs containing the maternal blood sinuses. As already explamed, these sinuses are produced partly by the erosion and opening out of the utenne vessels by the trophoblast and partly by the channels which make their appearance in the tTopho- blast itself. The destructive changes involve the greater portion of the stratum Fig. 126.—Diagram to illustrate the second phase of the placenta. (After Peters.) 711 es b.l., blood-lacuna ; ca, maternal capillary ; dc, decidua; mes, mesoderm ; stj, syncytium; tr, trophoblast. mcp III) ca "o stratum spongiosum and the unaltered layer ; through these and t^ebasa plate tne uteriSrifs and veinspass toand from^ lining of the uterine vessels ceases at the point where ^^'^J^'j^V Portions the sinuses themselves are Hned by the syncytium of the trophoblast. iortions . This outer layer was regarded by some authorities as b^^^^ "iirSfi of"te JtnXreS observations have proved that it is derived from the syncytium. The whole of the villi, therefore, consist of embryonic tissues.