618 ANGIOLOGY The arteries are also frequently attacked by sypliilis, Avhich gives rise to inflammation and degeneration of their middle coats. Recent researches * go to prove tliat arterial aneurysms, other than those duo to direct injury, occur almost solely m syphilitic patients. Pulmonary Artery (fig. 571) The pulmonary artery (a. pulmonalis) conveys the venous blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. It is a short, wide vessel, about 5 cm. in length and 30 mm. in diameter, arising from the left side of the base (conus arteriosus) of the right ventricle. It extends obliquely upwards and backwards, passing at first in front and then to the left of the ascending aorta, as far as the under surface of the arch, but on a plane posterior to it, where it divides, about the level of the intervertebral disc between the fifth and sixth thoracic vertebrae, into right and left branches of nearly equal size. Relations.—The whole of this vessel is contained within the pericardiimi. It is enclosed with the ascending aorta in a single tube of the visceral layer of the Pig. 571.—Transverse section of thorax, showing relations of pulmonary artery. Triangularis sterni Internal nmmmary vessels ^ Left j)hrenic nerve Pleura pulmonalis Pleura costalis serous pericardium, which is continued upwards upon them from the base of the heart. The fibrous layer of the pericardium becomes gradually lost upon the external coats of its two brandies. In front, the pulmonary artery is separated from the anterior extremity of the second left intercostal space by the pleura and left lung, in addition to the pericardium ; it rests at first upon the ascending aorta, and higher up lies in front of the left auricle on a plane posterior to the ascending aorta. On either side of its origin is the appendix of the corresponding auricle and a coronary artery, the left coronary artery passing, in the first part of its course, behind the vessel. The superficial cardiac plexus lies above its bifurcation, between it and the arch of the aorta. The right branch of the pulmonary artery (ramus dexter), longer and larger than the left, runs horizontally out\\'ards, behind the ascending aorta and superior vena cava and in front of the right bronclui-s, to the root of the right lung, where it divides into two branches. The lower and larger of these goes to the middle and lower lobes of the lung ; the upper an smaller is distributed to the upper lobe. * C. U. Aitcbison, AroJi. ofihe Pathnlogtcal InsHliiifl of the London JJonp., 1908, ii. p. 1.