MUSCLES AND FASCIA OP THE HAND 551 tendons of the digits pass. It is attaclied, internally, to the pisiform and the hook of the unciform ; externally, to the tuberosity of the scaphoid, and to tlie inner part of the anterior surface and the ridge of the trapezium. It is continuous, above, with the deep fascia of the forearm, and may be regarded as a thickened portion of this ; and below, with the palmar fascia. It is crossed by the ulnar vessels and nerve, and the cutaneous brandies of the median and ulnar nerves. At its outer extremity is the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis, which lies in the groove on the trapezium between the attachments of the annular ligament to the bone. It has inserted into its anterior surface a part of the tendon of the Palmaris longus and part of the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris, and has arising from it, below, the small muscles of the thumb and little finger. Beneath it pass the tendons of the Flexores sublimis et pro- fundus digitorum, the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis, and the median nerve. The synovial membranes of the flexor tendons at the wrist.— There are two synovial membranes which enclose all the tendons as tliey pass beneath this ligament, one for the Fig. 529.—Diagram showing the arrangement of the synovial sheaths of the palm and Hnaers. Flexores sublimis et profimdus digitorum, the other for the Flexor longus pollicis (fig. 529). They extend up into the forearm for about an inch above the annular ligament, and occasionally communicate with each other under the ligament. The sheath which surrounds the Flexor ten- dons of the fingers extends down- wards about halfway along the metacarpal bones, where it ter- minates in blind diverticula around the tendons to the index, middle, and ring fingers. In the case of the little finger, it is pro- longed on its tendons, and usually communicates with the synovial sheath of that digit. The sheath w'iiich envelops the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis is continued along the thumb as far as the insertion of the tendon. The posterior annular liga- ment (hg. carpi dorsale) (figs. 527, 528) is a strong, fibrous band, extending obliquely down- wards and inwards across the back of the \rast, and consisting of part of the deep fascia of the back of the forearm, strengthened by the addition of some transverse fibres. It binds down the Extensor tendons in theu' passage to the fingers, being attached, internally, to the styloid process of the ulna and to the cuneiform and pisiform; externally, to the outer margin of the radius; and, in its passage across the wrist, to the elevated ridges on the posterior sm"f ace of the radius. Between it and the bones are formed six compartments for the passage of tendons, each of which is lined by a separate synovial membrane. One LS found in each of the following positions: 1, on the outer side of the styloid process, for the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi and Extensor brevis pollicis ; 2, behind the styloid process, for the tendons of the Extensores carpi radialis longior et brevior; 3, about the middle of the posterior surface of the radius, for the tendon of the Extensor longus poUicis; i, to the inner side of the latter, for the tendons of the Extensor communis digitorum and Extensor indicis ; 5, opposite the interval between the radius and uhia, for the Extensor minimi digiti; 6, grooving the back of the ulna, for the tendon of the Extensor carpi ulnaris. The synovial membranes lining these sheaths are usually very extensive, reaching from above the annular ligament, down upon the tendons for a variable distance on the back of the hand.