283 APPLIED ANATOMY OF THE SKULL I elliptical in shape it is termed a ' gutter ' fracture, and would owe its shape to the instrument which had produced it, as a poker. Fracture of the outer table alone only occurs in the region of the frontal sinuses where the two tables are completely separated. Fractures of" the base of the skull may be produced by indirect or direct -snolence. I. In cases of the former class the violence is applied to the vertex or some part of the cranial convexity, as when a person falls from a height on to his head and a fracture of the base results. The mechanism of this form of fracture was formerly explained by the doctrine of contre-coup, i.e. that the force was transmitted from one side of the skull to the other ; but this idea is now completely exploded, and there are at the present day two theories as to mode of causation of these fractures, (a) According to Aran's theory of irradiation all fractures of the base are produced by a fissure, wliich starts from the point of injury and radiates to the base. There can be little doubt that many cases of fracture of the base, especially of the middle fossae, are caused in this way, but it is insufficient to explain all, since instances have been met with of fracture of the base of the skull in which there has been no fracture of the vaiilt. (b) To explain these cases, another theory, known as the compression or bursting theory, has been suggested. If a hollow, elastic sphere is compressed from above downwards, it will bulge laterally, and, if the compression is sufficient, it will eventually burst in the situation wliere it bulges. Now, the skull is an elastic sphere, and when compression is applied to it, its diameter will be reduced along the line of greatest pressure and will therefore be increased in other directions, and may increase to such an extent that bursting occurs. In a hollow elastic sphere of imiform thickness, the bulging and subsequent bursting take place at the equatorial line midway between the two points of compression ; but the skull is not of uniform thickness, and therefore the bulging and subsequent bursting take place at the weakest part. n. Direct violence applied to the base of the skull may cause fracture in several different ways : by the impact of the vertebral column against the condyles of the occipital bone, in falls on the buttocks or feet; by the condyle of the lower jaw being driven against the glenoid fossa, in blows or falls on the chin ; by the thrusting of a pointed instrument through the orbit or nose ; by gunshot wounds through the mouth ; and by a fall or a stab on the back of the head. In the majority of cases of fracture of the base, the fracture is compound. In the anterior fossa, if the fissure extend across the cribriform plate, the nasal mucous membrane is usually torn and the fracture rendered compoimd into the nose. In the middle fossa, the fracture usually opens up the tympanic cavity, and if the membrana tympani be torn, the fracture is compound, via the external auditory meatus. Continued bleeding from the nose or ear is one of the most constant symptoms in these cases. The most common place for fracture of the base to occur is through the middle fossa, and here the fissure usually takes a fairly definite course. Starting from the point struck, which is generally somewhere in the neighbourhood of the parietal eminence, it runs down- wards through the parietal and the squamous portion of the temporal and across the petrous portion of this bone, frequently traversing and implicating the internal auditory meatus, to the middle lacerated foramen. From this it may pass across the body of the sphenoid, through the pituitary fossa, to the foramen lacerum medium of the other side, and may indeed travel roimd the whole cranium, so as to completely separate the anterior from the posterior part. The course of the fracture should be borne in mind, as it explains the symptoms to which fracture in this region may give rise : thus, if the fissure pass across the internal auditory meatus, injury to the facial and auditory nerves may result, with consequent facial paralysis and deafness ; or the tubular prolongation of the arachnoid aroimd these nerves in the meatus may be torn and thus permit of the escape of the cerebro-spinal fluid should there be a communication between the internal ear and the tympanum together with rupture of the membrana tympani, as is frequently the case : again, if the fissure pass across the pituitary fossa and the muco-periosteum covering the under surface of the body of the sphenoid is torn, blood will find its way into the pharynx and be swallowed, and after a time vomiting of blood will result. Fractures of the anterior fossa, involving the bones forming the roof of the orbit and nasal fossa, are generally the result of blows on the forehead ; but fracture of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid may be a comphcation of fracture of the nasal bone. When the fracture implicates the roof of the orbit, the blood finds its way into this cavity, and, travelling forwards, appears as a subconjunctival ecchymosis. If tlie roof of the nasal fossa be fractured, the blood escapes from the nose. In rare cases there may be also escape of cerebro-spmal fluid from the nose, should the dura mater and arachnoid have been torn. In fractures of the posterior fossa, extravasation of blood may appear at the nape of the neck, beneath the muscles attached to the superior curved line of the occipital Diseases of the Skull.—An inflammatory condition affecting the bones and the peri- ^''^JJ™ .together is generally caused by septic infection either of a scalp wound, exposing wid bruising the bone, or of a compound fracture, and is termed septic osteomyelitis. Occasionally it may occur independently of injury, and then follows the same course, and IS due to the same causes, as acute infective osteomyelitis in the long bones. i