568 MYOLOGY Luinbricales and all the luterossei are supplied, by the eighth cervical nerve, througli the deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve. The third Lumbrical frequently receives a twig from the median. Actions.—The Palmar interosseous muscles adduct the fingers to an imaginary line drawn longitudinally through the centre of the middle finger ; and the Dorsal interossei abduct the fingers from that line. In addition to this the Interossei, in conjimction with the Lumbricales, flex the first phalanges at the metacarpo- phalangeal joints, and extend the second and third phalanges in consequence of their insertions into the expansions of the Extensor tendons. The Extensor communis digitorum is believed to act almost entirely on the first phalanges. Surface Form.—Tlie PedoraUs major largely influences surface form and conceals a considerable part of the thoracic wall in front. Its sternal origm presents a border, which bounds and determines the width of the sternal furrow. Its clavicular origin is somewhat depressed and flattened, and between the two portions of the muscle there is often an oblique depression. The outer margin of the muscle is generally well marked above, and forms the inner boundary of a triangular depression, the infraclavicular fossa, which separates the Pectorahs major from the Deltoid. It gradually becomes less marked as it aj)proaches the tendon of insertion, and is more closely blended wth the Deltoid muscle. The lower border of the Pectorahs major forms the rormded anterior axillary fold, and corresponds with the direction of the fifth rib. When the arm is raised, the lowest shji of origin of the PedoraUs minor produces a local fulness just below the border of the anterior fold of the axiUa, and serves to break the sharp outline of the lower border of the Pectorahs major muscle. The origin of the Serratus magnus causes a very characteristic surface marking. Wlien the arm is raised from the side, the lower five or six serrations are plainly discernible, forming a zigzag line, caused by the digitations, which diminish in size from above downwards, and have their apices arranged on a curve. When the arm is lying by the side, the first serration to appear at the lower margin of the Pectoralis major is the one attached to the fifth rib. The Deltoid, with the prominence of the upper extremity of the humerus, produces the rounded contour of the shoulder. It is rovmder and fuUer in front than behind, where it presents a somewhat flattened form. Above, its anterior border presents a rounded. sUghtly curved emmence, which forms the outer boundary of the infraclavicular fossa ; below, it is closely united with the Pectorahs major. Its posterior border is thin, flattened, and scarcely marked above ; below, it is thicker and more prominent. The insertion of the Deltoid is marked by a depression on the outer side of the middle of the arm. Of the scapular muscles, the only one which materially influences surface form is the Teres major ; it assists the Latissimus dorsi in forming the thick, rounded, posterior fold of the axiila. When the arm is raised, the Coraco-hrachialis reveals itself as a long, narrow elevation, which emerges from imder cover of the anterior fold of the axilla and runs internal to the shaft of the humerus. The front and imier part of the arm presents the prominence of the Biceps, boxmded on either side by an intermuscular depression. This muscle determines the contour of the front of the arm, and extends from the anterior margin of the axilla to the bend of the elbow. Its upper tendons are concealed by the Pectorahs major and the Deltoid, and its lo-n'er tendon sinks into the space at the bend of the elbow. When the muscle is in a state of complete contraction—that is to say, when the forearm has been flexed and supinated—it presents a roimded convex form. On either side of the Biceps, at the lower part of the arm, the Brachialis aniicn^ is discernible. On the outer side it forms a narrow emmence, which extends some distance up the arm ; on the inner side it shows itself only as a httle fulness just above the elbow. On the back of the arm the long head of the Triceps may be seen as a longitudinal enunenee emerging from under cover of the Deltoid, and gi-adually merging into the longitudinal flattened plane of the tendon of the muscle on the lower part of the back of the arm. The tendon of insertion of the muscle extends about halfway up the back of the arm, and forms an elongated flattened plane when the muscle is in action. Under simflar conditions the surface forms produced by the inner and outer heads of the muscle are well seen. . . On the anterior aspect of the elbow are two muscular elevations, one on either side, separated above, and converging below so as to form the inner and outer boundarie.-^ of a triangular space, the anticubital fossa. Of these, the inner elevation, consisting ol the Pionator teres and the Flexors, forms the pronunence along the inner side and front of the forearm. It is a fusiform mass, pointed above at the internal condyle, and gradually tapering off below. The Pronator teres, the outermost muscle of the group, forms the inner boundarv of the anticubital fossa. It is shorter, less prominent, and more obliqur than the outer boundary. The most prominent part of the emmence is produced by tlie Flexor carpi radialis. the muscle next in order on the inner side of the prec^dmg one. It forms a rounded prominence above, and may be traced downwards to its tendon, wlueii can be felt hung on the front of the wrist, nearer its radial than its ulnar border, and in the inner side of the radial arterv. The Palmaris hngus presents no surface markmi;