1223 THE UTERUS almost to its former condition, but certain traces of its enlargement remain. It is necessary therefore to describe as the type-form the adult virgin uterus, and then to consider the modifications which are eflfected as a result of pregnancy. In the virgin state the uterus is flattened antcro-posteriorly and is pyriform in shape, with the apex directed downwards and backwards. It lies between the bladder in front and the pelvic colon and rectum behind, and is completely within the pelvis, so that its base is below the level of the pelvic brim_. Its upper part is suspended by the broad and the round ligaments, while its lower portion is imbedded in the fibrous tissue of the pelvis. The long axis of the uterus usually lies approximately in the axis of the pelvic brim, but as the organ is freely movable its position varies with the state of distension of the bladder and rectum. Except w^hen much displaced by a fully distended bladder, it forms an angle with the vagina, since the axis of the vagina corresponds to the axes of the cavity and outlet of the pelvis. Fig. 1014.—Median sagittal section of female pelvis. Sacntim< Ooccyai' Pouch of Douglas- Os uteri externum- Anal canal Utero-veaical pouch Urethra The uterus measures about three inches in length, two inches in breadth at its upper part, and nearly an inch in thickness ; it weighs from an ounce to an ounce and a half. It is divisible into two portions. On the surface, about midway between the apex and base, is a slight constriction, known as the isthmus (isthmus uteri), and corresponding to this in the interior is a narrowing of the uterine cavity, the internal os (orificium internum uteri). The portion above the isthmus is termed the body, and that below, the cervix. The part of the body which lies above a plane passing through the points of entrance of the Fallopian tubes is known as the fundus (fundus uteri). Body (corpus uteri).—The body gradually narrows from the fundus to the isthmus. The anterior surface (facies vesicaUs) is flattened and covered by peri- toneum, which is reflected on to the bladder to form the utero-vesical pouch. The surface lies in apposition with the bladder. The 'posterior surface (facies intestinalis) is convex transversely, and is covered by peritoneum, wliich is continued down on to the cervix and vagina.