.^NGIOLOGY 652 The parieto-t&mporal supplies the supra-marginal and angular gyri, and the posterior parts of the superior and middle temporal convolutions. The temporal branches, two or three in number, are distributed to the outer surface of the temporal lobe. 10. The posterior communicating artery (a. communicans posterior) runs backwards from the internal carotid, and anastomoses with the posterior cerebral, a branch of the basilar. This artery varies in size, being sometimes small, and occasionally so large that the posterior cerebral may be considered as arising from the internal carotid rather than from the basilar. It is frequently larger on one side than on the other. From the posterior half of this vessel are given off a number of small branches, the fostero-median ganglionic branches, which, with similar vessels from the posterior cerebral, pierce the posterior perforated space and supply the internal surfaces of the thalami and the walls of the third ventricle. 11. The anterior choroidal (a. chorioidea) is a small but constant branch, which arises from the internal carotid, near the posterior communicating artery. Passmg backwards and outwards between the temporal lobe and the crus cerebri, it enters the descending horn of the lateral ventricle through the choroidal fissure and ends in the choroid plexus. It is distributed to the hippocampus major, fimbria, velum interpositum, and choroid plexus. THE ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN Investigations show that the mode of distribution of the vessels of the brain has an important bearing iipon a considerable number of the pathological lesions which may occur in this part of the nervous system ; it is therefore important Fig. 588.—Diagram of the arterial circulation at the base of the brain. (After Charcot.) ■ANTERIOR CEREBROL flRTERT INTERNAL CftROtlO ARTERY MIDDLE CEREBF\(\L ARTERY POSTERIOR CEREBRRL ABTERY VEIITKHUAL ABTEHY to consider a little more in detail the manner in which the cerebral vessels are Sr^ctebral arteries are derived from the internal carotid and vertebral which at the base of the brain fonn a remarkable anastomosis known as the arcle