436 SYNDESMOLOGY ^ On the inner side there arc five burssB : (1) h»f.w»^n i.iu. imii.,- heailoLlJie Gastrocnemius and the capsule: this sends a prolongation between the tendons of tne LJastrocnemius and Semimembranosus and often communi- cates with the joint ; (2) onejiil^qyP.fhp a^pm.l Uf^y^^ limmrpt .hfitilTrm il, |ind the tendons of tlio Sartorn]^(jyjg.ni1i«. .and Sr^n^i^An^^np^pB ■ (3) ^Mirnlli (he lulcnial lain al li-iQlfiBLJaaLweCil it and the tendon-of the RemU mfinhranosus ((his is m.iucI iiiics oiily an cxpansioji from tholu'xt bursa) ; (1) QIC boiicalli {\\v t(;ml()ii. of tlu^jSi'iiiiiiu;iiiljrajj.o.i!u.s, bt't'A.ueii it and the head of the tibia ; (5) occasionally there is 'a bursa between the tendonw of tlic Semi membranosus and Semitendinosus. Structures around the Joint.—In front, and at the sides, is the Quadriceps extensor; on the outer side, the tendons of the Biceps and Pophteus and the external popliteal nerve ; on the inner side, the Sartorius, GraciUs, Semitendinosus and Semimembranosus ; behind, an expansion from the tendon of the Semi- membranosus, the pophteal vessels, and the internal pophteal nerve, Pophteus, Plantaris, and inner and outer heads of the Gastrocnemius, some lymphatic glands,' and fat. The Arteries supplying the joint are the anastomotica magna, a branch of ihe femoral, the articuhir branches of the_ popht'Sl 'tlie anterior and' pbs'terTVii' recurrent liranch.es. of the anterior tibial^ and the descending brancli from the external cireiim(li-\ of the profinida. '-'-^ ^ The Nerves are derived from the obturator, anterior crural, and external and internal pophteal. Movements.—The movements which take place at the knee-joint are flexion and extension, and, in certain positions of the joint, internal and external rotation. The movements of flexion and extension at this joint differ from those in a typical hinge-joint, such as the elbow, in that (a) the axis romid which motion 'takes place is not a fixed one, but shifts forwards during extension and backwards during flexion ; (6) the commencement of flexion and the end of extension are accom- panied by rotatory movements associated with the fixation of the hmb in a position of great stabihty. The movement from full flexion to full extension may there- fore be described in three phases. 1. In the fully flexed condition the posterior parts of the femoral condyles rest on the corresponding portions of the menisco-tibial surfaces, and in this position a slight amount of simple rolhng movement is allowed. 2. During the passage of the hmb from the flexed to the extended position a ghding movement is superposed on the rolhng, so that the axis, which at the commencement is represented by a fine through the inner and outer tuberosities of the femur, gradually shifts forwards. In this part of the movement, the pos- terior two-thirds of the tibial articular surfaces of the two femoral condyles are involved, and as these have similar curvatures and are parallel to one another, they move forwards equally. 3. The external condyle is brought almost to rest by the tightening of the anterior crucial hgament; it moves, however, shghtly forwards and inwards, pushing before it the anterior part of the external semilunar cartilage. The tibial surface on the internal condyle is prolonged farther forwards than that on the external, and this prolongation is directed outwards. "WTien, therefore, the move- ment forwards of the condyles is checked by the anterior crucial ligament, con- tinued muscidar action causes the internal condyle, dragging with it the semilunar cartilage, to travel backwards and inwards, thus producing an internal rotation of the thigh on the leg. When the position of full extension is reached the outer part of the groove on the external condyle is pressed against the anterior part of the corresponding semilunar cartilage, while the inner part of the groove rests on the articular margin in front of the external tubercle of the tibial spine. Into the groove on the internal condyle is fitted the anterior part of the internal semi- lunar cartilage, while the anterior crucial ligament and the articular margin in front of the inner tubercle of the tibial spine are received into the fore part of the intercondyloid notch. This third phase by winch all these parts are brought into accurate apposition is known as the ' screwing home,' or locking movement of the joint. The complete movement of flexion is the converse of that described above, and is therefore preceded by an external rotation of the femur which imlocks the extended joint.