117 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SPINAL CORD appearance The widest part of the canal serves to subdivide the lateral wall of ?he neuraT tube into a dorsal or alar, and a ventral or basal lamma (fig. 149), a QiiTirlivision which extends forwards into the brain. Srventm part of the mantle layer becomes thickened, and on cross-secticn. annears Is a triangular patch between the marginal and ependymal layers. This EeSng is the ruSent of the anterior horn of grey matter, and contains many neSXsts the axis-cylinders of which pass out through the marginal layer and W thranterior roots';,f the spinal nerves (figs. 147, 149) The thickemng o^ mantle layer graduaUy extends in a dorsal direction, and orms the posterioi horn y mattel Thelxons of many of the neuroblasts ^ ^he alar lamni^^ forward, and cross in the floor-plate to the opposite side of the cord , these form the rucUment of the anterior white commissure of the cord. • f „f nf The anterior and lateral white colmnns of the spinal cord consist at first of the axons of the neuroblasts; they are, however, at - augmented by the pyramidal tracts which descend from the ^^^^bral cortex The fibres of the posterior nerve-roots grow inwards into the spinal cord from the ce s of the spinal gangUa; in the spinal cord of a six months foetus they form a well- FiG. 149.-Transverse sections through the spinal cords of Oilman embryos; A, about four and a half weeks old. b, about three months old. (His.) Eoof-plate Alar lamina Fasciculus gracili- Oval bundle Posterior nerve-root Central canal Ependyiiial lai/er Lateral column Basal lamina. nterior nerve-root Antefior column Floor-plate Posterior column Post, nerve-root Lateral column Central canal Anterior horn Anterior column A defined oval bundle in the peripheral part of the alar lamina. With the subsequent development of the posterior horn of grey matter this bundle is displaced inwards and forms the rudiment of the posterior column. By the growth of the anterior horns of grey matter, and by the increase in size of the anterior columns, a furrow is formed between the lateral halves of the cord anteriorly ; this graduaUy deepens to form the anterior median fissure. The mode of formation of the posterior fissure is somewhat uncertain. Many believe that it is produced by a growing together of the walls of the posterior part of the central canal. Robinson * traverses this view, and points out that the so-called posterior fissure is occupied by a fibrillated tissue, which is probably of a spongio- blastic origin, since its fibrils can be traced directly into the posterior grey commissure. Up to the fourth month of foetal life the spinal cord occupies the entire length of the spinal canal, and the spinal nerves pass outwards at right angles from the cord. From this time onwards, the vertebral column grows more rapidly than the cord, and the latter, being fixed above through its continuity with the brain, gradually assumes a higher position within the canal. By the sixth month its lower end reaches only as far as the upper end of the sacral canal; at birth it is • Studies in Anatoviy, Owens College, 1891.