ANGIOLOGY 616 entirely to the licad and upper extremities, a Biiiall quantity being probably carried into the descending aorta. From the head and upper extremities the blood is returned by the superior vena cava to the right auricle, \\ here it becomes mixed with a small portion of the blood from the inferior cava. From the riglit auricle it descends over the Eustachian valve into the right ventricle ; and from the right ventricle passes into the pulmonary artery. The lungs of the foetus being inactive, only a small quantity of tlie' blood of the pulmonary artery is distributed to them by the right and left pulmonary arteries, and returned by the pulmonary veins to the left auricle : the greater part passes through the ductus arteriosus into the commencement of the descending aorta, where it becomes mixed with a small quantity of the blood transmitted by the left ventricle into the aorta. Through this vessel it descends to supply the lower extremities and the viscera of the abdomen and pelvis, the chief portion being, however, conveyed by the umbilical arteries to the placenta. From tlie preceding account of the cii'culation of the blood in the foetus, it will be seen : 1. That the placenta serves the purposes of nutrition and excretion, receiving the impure blood from the foetus, and returning it purified and charged with additional nutritive material. 2. That nearly the whole of the blood of the umbilical vein traverses the liver before entering the inferior cava ; hence the large size of this organ, esjiecially at an early period of foetal life. 3. That the right auricle is the point of meetmg of a double current, the blood in the inferior cava being guided by the Eustachian valve into the left auricle, while that in the superior cava descends into the right ventricle. At an early period of foetal life it is higlxly probable that the two streams are quite distinct ; for the inferior cava opens almost directly into the left auricle, and the Eustachian valve would exclude the current along the vein from entering the right ventricle. At a later period, as the separation between the two auricles becomes more distinct, it seems probable that some mixture of the two streams must take place. 4. The pure blood carried from the placenta to the foetus by the umbiMcal vein, mixed with the blood from the portal vein and inferior cava, passes almost directly to the arch of the aorta, and is distributed by the branches of that vessel to the head and upper extremities. 5. The blood contained ua the descending aorta, chiefly derived from that which has already circulated through the head and Umbs, together ^-ith a small quantity from the left ventricle, is distributed to the abdomen and lower extremities. Changes in the Vascular System at Birth At birth, when respiration is established, an increased amount of blood from the pulmonary artery passes through the lungs, and the placental circulation is cut off. The foramen ovale is closed by about the tenth day after bh'th : the valvular fold above mentioned adlieres to the margin of the foramen for the greater part of its circumference, but a slit-hke opening is left between the t\A'o auricles above, and this sometimes persists. The ductus arleriosus begins to contract immediately after respiration is established, becomes completely closed from the fourth to the tenth day, and ultimately degenerates into an impervious cord, which connects the left pulmonary artery to the arch of the aorta. Of the umbilical or hifpogasiric arteries, the portion of each continued on to the bladder from the trunk of the corresponding mternal iliac remains pervious, as the superior vesical artery ; the part extending from the side of the bladder to the umbilicus becomes obliterated between the second and fifth days after birth, and projects as a fibrous cord towards the abdominal cavity, "carrying on it a fold of peritoneum. The umbilical vein and ductus vcnosus are completely obliterated between the second and fifth days after birth, and ultimately dwindle to fibrous cords; the former becoming the ligamentura teres, the latter the hgamentum venosum of the liver.