COSTAL CARTILAGES 213 the ribs opposite the convexity of the dorsal cm-ve become extremely convex behmd, bemg thro-tvn out and bulging, and at the same time flattened in front, so that the two ends ot the same rib are almost parallel. Coincident vnth this the ribs on the opposite side, on the concavity of the curve, are sunk and depressed behmd, and bulging and convex in ^"^^ It is commonly said that in tuberculosis of the lungs the chest is characteristically ' flat' that is to say, that the ratio of its antero-posterior to its transverse diameter is less than' the normal. But by careful measurement in a large number of cases. Woods Hutchinson has showTi that this is not so. Takmg the transverse diameter of the chest at the nipple level as = 100, he finds that in the normal adult man between the ages of 20 and 44 the antero-posterior diameter = 71. In 82 phthisical subjects it was = 79-.5, and in 30 'flat-chested' persons was = 80. He explains the error as an optical illusion, due to rolling fon\'ards of the shoulders in the ' flat-chested' ; the back is seen to be correspondingly rounded and protuberant, while the forward position of the shoulders and clavicles lends an appearance of flattening to the chest. More or less shrinkage of one side of the thorax is often seen as a consequence of adhesive pleurisy, in which the visceral and parietal pleura; adhere closely to one another and the lung becomes collapsed and fibrosed. If this process be at aU complete, great deformity of the chest results, the ribs on the affected side falUng in, together with obhtera- tion of the intercostal spaces ; the contents of the mediastina are pulled over towards the affected side, the other lung becomes emphysematous compensatorily. The vertebral column becomes scoliotic, with the conca^^ty of the curve towards the affected side. The skull is supported on the summit of the vertebral column, and is of an oval shape, A^dder behind than in front. It is composed of a series of flattened or irregular bones which, ^\'ith one exception (the mandible, or lower jaw), are immovably jointed together. It consists of two parts : (1) the cranium, which lodges and protects the brain and comprises eight bones (ossa cranii), and (2) the skeleton of the face, wliich consists of fourteen bones (ossa faciei), as follows : THE SKULL jOssa cranii, 8 bones Sphenoid. Frontal. Ethmoid. Skull, 22 bones < ,Two Nasals. Two Lachrymals. Ossa faciei, 14 bones Two Maxillffi. Two Palates. Two Inferior Turbinateds. Two Malars. Vomer. Mandible.