MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE THORAX 501 the ridge on the inner surface of a rib, as well as from the corresponding costal cartilage, and is inserted into the upper border of the rib below. Their fibres are also du-ected obliquely, but pass in a direction opposite to those of the External intercostals. The Infracostales (mm. subcostales) consist of muscular and aponeurotic fasciculi, which vary in number and length : they are placed on the inner surfaces of the ribs, where the Internal intercostal muscles cease ; each arises from the inner surface of one rib, and is inserted into the inner surface of the first, second, or thii'd rib below. Their fibres run in the same direction as those of the Internal Fig. 500.—Posterior surface of sternum and costal cartilages, showing Triangularis sterni muscle. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.) fiteriio- wintoid intercostals. They are most frequent between the lower ribs. The Triangularis sterni (m. transversus thoracis) is a thin plane of muscular and tendinous fibres, situated upon the inner wall of the front of the chest (fig. 500). It arises on either side from the lower third of the posterior surface of the sternum, from the pos- terior surface of the ensi- form cartilage, and from the sternal ends of the costal cartilages of the lower three or four true ribs. Its fibres diverge upwards and outwards, to be inserted by digitations into the lower borders and inner surfaces of the costal cartilages of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs. The lowest fibres of this muscle are horizontal in their dii'ec- tion, and are continuous with those of the Trans- versalis ; those which succeed are oblique, while the superior fibres are almost vertical. This muscle varies much in its attachment, not only in different bodies, but on opposite sides of the same body. The Levatores costarum (fig. 499), twelve in number on either side, are small tendinous and fleshy bundles, which arise from the extremities of the transverse processes of the seventh cervical and upper eleven thoracic vertebrae ; they pass obliquely downwards and outwards, like the fibres of the External intercostals, and each is inserted into the upper border of the rib immediately below the vertebra from which it takes origin, between the tubercle and the angle. Each of the inferior Levatores divides into two fasciculi, one of which is inserted as above described ; the other fasciculus passes down to the second rib below its origin ; thus, each of the lower ribs receives fibres from the transverse processes of two vertebrae. Nerves.^—The muscles of this group are supphed by the intercostal nerves. ■ The Diaphragm (diaphragma) (fig. 501) is a dome-shaped musculo-fibrous septum which separates the thoracic from the abdominal cavity, its convex