824 NEUROLOGY of some transverse fibres from the deeper part of the pons, forms the middle peduncle of the correspondhig half of the cerebellum. The cZeep transverse fibres (fibrse pontis prof undse) partly intersect and partly lie on the dorsal aspect of the pyramidal fibres. They course to the lateral border of the pons, and assist the superficial transverse fibres in forming the middle peduncle of the cerebellum. The further connections of the transverse fibres will be discussed witli the anatomy of the cerebellum. The longitudinal fibres (fasciculi longitudinales) are derived from the crura cerebri, and enter the upper surface of the pons. They stream downwards on either side of the middle line in larger or smaller bundles, separated from each other by the deeper transverse fibres ; these longitudinal bundles cause a forward projection of the superficial transverse fibres, and thus give rise to the pyramidal eminences on the ventral surface. Some of these fibres end in tlie nuclei pontis, and others, after decussating, in the motor nuclei of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and twelftli nerves ; but most of them are carried throutili the pons, and at its lower surface are collected mto the pyramids of the medulla. The fibres which end in the motor nuclei of the cranial nerves are derived from the cells of the cerebral cortex, and bear the same relation to the motor cells of the cranial nerves that the pyramidal fibres bear to the motor cells m the anterior horn of the cord. i - i The nuclei pontis are continuous with the arcuate nuclei in the meduUa, and consist of small groups of multipolar nerve-ceUs which are scattered between the bundles of transverse fibres. The tegmental or dorsal part (pars dorsalis pontis) of the pons is chietiy composed of an upward continuation of the reticular formation and grey matter of the medulla. It is subdivided into lateral halves by a median raphe, which however does not extend into the ventral part of the pons, bemg obhterated by the transverse fibres. The tegmental portion of the pons consists of transverse and longitudmal fibres, and also contains important grey nuclei. The transverse fibres m the lower part of the pons are collected into a distinct strand, named the corpus trapezoideum. This consists of fibres wMch arise from the cells of the ventral or accessory auditory nucleus, and wiU be referred to in connection with the coclilear division of the auditory nerve. In the substance of the corpus trapezoideum is a coUection of nerve-cells, which constitutes the trapezoid nucleus. The longitudinal fibres, which are contmuous^-ith those of the medulla, are mostly collected mto two bundles on either side. One ot these lies between the corpus trapezoideum and the reticular foruiation, and forms the upward prolongation of the fillet; the second is situated near the floor of the fourth ventricle, and is the posterior longitudinal fasciculus Other longitudinal fibres, which are more diffusely distributed, arise from the ceils of the grey matter of the pons. . , The greater part of the dorsal portion of the pons is a contmuation upA^ard of the formatio reticularis of the medulla, and, Hke it, presents tl^e appearance of a network, in the meshes of which are numerous nerve-cells, besides t e^e scattered nerve-cells, there are some important masses of grey .^^atter ^^ l ich require mention, viz. the superior olivary nucleus and the nuclei of the fatth, sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves (fig. 697). 1. The superior olivary nucleus (nucleus ohvans superior) is ^ small inass of grey matte? situated on the dorsal surface of the outer part of the co pus ? alez^oideum. Rudimentary in man, but weU developed in certain an™a^ 't exhibits the same structure as the inferior olivary nucleus, and i. sitnated immediately above it. Some of the fibres of the coi-pus t^Pe^o'deum end by arborising around the ceUs of this nucleus, while otliers arise from these cells. 2 Nuclei of the fifth nerve.-The nuclei of the fifth -rve in tlie pon a e two in number : a motor and a sensory. The motor nucleus is situated in t e upper part of the pons, close under its dorsal surface and along the of t e latSal marsin of the fourth ventricle. Tlie axis-cylinder processes of its cells ffrnfa pSn of the motor root of the fifth nerve : the remaining fibres of the mot?r root of this nerve are formed by a tract -h.ch anses ^^^^^ matter of the floor of the Sylvian aqueduct, and hence \« ""^^^f^^^^^^^^ mesencephalic root. The sensory nucleus l^^s external to <; rs^Jsorv ilS beneath the superior peduncle of the cerebellum. Some of the sensory ntjre