1112 SPLANCHNOLOGY In some alveoli are seen peculiar cresceniic bodies, lying between the cells and the membrana propria. They are termed the cresrcnls of Giunuzzi, or the deifiilunes of Hddenhain (fig. 918), and are com])Osed ol ])olyhedral granular cells, which Heideiihai'n regards as young epithelial cells destined to sujiply the jjlace of those salivary cells which have undergone disintegration. This view, howevei', is not accepted by Klein. In the serous alveoli the cells almost com])letely fill the cavity, so that there is hardly anj' lumen perceptible; they contain granules imbedded in a closely reticulated protoplaism (tie. 919). The ducts are lined at tlieii- origins by epitlielium which difTers little from the pavement type. As the ducts enlarge, tlie epithelial cells change to the columnar type, and the part of the cell next the basement-membrane is finely striated. The lol)ules of the salivary glands are richly supplied with blood-vessels which form a dense network in the inter-alveolar spaces. Fine plexuses of nerves are also found in the interloljular tissue. The nerve-fibrils pierce the basement-membrane of the alveoli, and end in branched varicose filaments between the secreting cells. In the hilus of the submaxillary gland there is a collection of nerve-cells termed Langley's ganglion. Mucous glands.—Besides the salivary glands proper, numerous other glands are found in the mouth. Many of these glands are found at the posterior part of the dorsum of the tongue, behind the cii-cumvallate papillae, and also along its margiiLs as far forwards as the ¥iG. 919.—Section of a serous salivary gland. apex. Others lie around and in the tonsU between its crypts, and large numbers are present in the soft palate, the lips and cheeks. These glands are of the same structui-e as the larger sahvary glands, and are of the mucous or mixed type. Surface Form.—The orifice of the mouth is bounded by the lips, two thick, fleshy folds covered externally by integument and internally by mucous membrane, and con- sisting of muscles, vessels, nen^es, areolar tissue, and numerous small glands. The size of the orifice of the mouth varies considerably in different individuals, but seems to bear a close relation to the size and prominence of the teeth. Its corners usually correspond to the outer border of the canine teeth. In the Mongolian tribes, where the front teeth are large and inclined forward, the mouth is large ; and this, combmed with the thick and everted Hps, wliich appear to be associated ynth prominent teeth, gives to the Negro's face much of the peculiarity by which it is characterised. The smaller tcetti. and the slighter prominence of the alveolar arch of the more highly civilised races, render the oiifice of the mouth much smaller, and thus a small mouth is an indication of intelligence, and is regarded as an evidence of the higher civilisation of the indi\nd«al. Upon looking into the mouth, the first thing to be noted is the tongue, the ujiper surface of wliich will be seen occupying the floor of the ca^^ty. This sm-facc is convex and is marked along tlie middle line by a raphe, which divides it into two symmclricaf portions. The anterior two-thirds arc rough and studded ^rith papilla?; tlie posterior tliu-d, smooth and tuberculated, is covered l)y numerous glands wliich project li-om the surface. Upon raising the tongue, the mucous membrane which invests Us "I'li^r surface may be traced over its sides on to its under sm-face. from ^^•hlcll it is reflected o\ er the floor of the mouth on to the inner surface of the mandible, a part of which coveis. As it pas,ses over the borders of the tongue it changes its charactei-. I'^^^'l""?/'"" "J smooth, and losing the papilke which are to be seen on the upjier surface. In t'^c m^afe line the mucous membrane on the under surface of the tip of the tongue forms a distanct,