184 OSTEOLOGY Cervical VEiiTEBBiE (fig. 249) The cervical vertebrae (vertebrae cervicales) are the smaUest of tlie true vertebrae, and can be readUy distinguished from those of the thoracic o^ umbar regions by the presence of a foramen (foramen transversariura) each transverse process. The first, second, and seventh present excepS fe^t^re tTe rrlSg'fZr ^ ^ f°ll°-n/characters L common t" w«rS''' rf^"'" f"'"''^' '^^^ ^'T ^'^^ *° ^'^^ t^^^ from before back- wards, riie anterior and posterior surfaces are flattened and of equal depth • the former IS placed on a lower level than the latter, and its inferior border IS pxolonged do%vnwards, so as to overlap the upper and fore part of the vertebra below. Its upper surface is concave t/ansversely, and presents a projecting hp on either side ; its lower surface is concave from before back wards, convex from side to side, and presents lateraUy a shaUow concavity which receives the corresponding projecting lip of the subjacent vertebri.' llie pedicles are directed outwards and backwards, and are attached to the body midway between its upper and lower borders, so that the superior mtervertebral notch is as deep as the inferior, but it is, at the same time narrower, ihe lavitnce are narrow, and thinner above than below the ■spinal foramen is large, and of a triangular form. The spinous process is Aiiterior tuhercle of transverse procesn Foramen for vertebral artery Posterior tubercle of. transverse process Fig. 249.—a cervical vertebra. L Transverse process Superior articular jirocess Inferior articular process * short and bifid, the two divisions being often of unequal size. The superior and inferior articular processes of each side are fused to form an articular pillar, which projects outwards from the junction of the pedicle and lamina, ihe articular facets are flat and of an oval form : the superior look back- wards upwards, and slightly inwards ; the inferior forMards, downwards, and slightly outwards. The transverse processes are each pierced by a foramen transversarium, wliich, in the upper six vertebra, gives passage to the vertebral artery and vein and a plexus of sympathetic nerves. Each process consists of an anterior and a posterior part. The anterior portion is the homologue of the rib in the thoracic region, and is therefore named the costal process or costal element: it arises from the side of the body, is directed outwards in front of the foramen, and ends in a tubercle, the tuberculum anterius. The posterior part, the true transverse process, springs from the neural arch behind the foramen, and is directed forwards and outwards : it terminates in a tubercle, the tuberculum posterius. These tw o parts are joined, outside the foramen, by a bar of bone which exhibits a deep groove (sulcus n. spinalis) on its upper surface for the passage of the corresponding spinal nerve.* & j s Chassaignac first pointed out that the common carotid artery can be easily compressed against the anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and * '^"oial element of a cervical vertebra not only includes tlie portion wliicli sprinp-s trom the side of the body, but tlie anterior and posterior tubercles and the bar of bone which connects them.