674 ANGIOLOGY between the external and long heads of the Triceps muscle to anastomose with the posterior circumflex artery ; and, while in the groove, a small branch which accompanies a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve through the substance of the Triceps muscle and ends in the Anconeus below the outer epicondyle of the humerus. 2. The nutrient artery of the shaft of the humerus arises about the middle of the arm and enters the nutrient canal near the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis muscle. 3. The inferior profunda (a. coUateralis ulnaris superior), of small size, arises^ a little below the middle of the arm. It pierces the internal intermuscular septum, and descends on the surface of the inner head of the Triceps muscle, to the space between the inner epicoiidyle and olecranon, accompanied by the ulnar nerve, and terminates by anastomosing with the posterior ubiar recurrent and anastomotica magna. It sometimes sends a branch in front of the internal epicondyle, to anastomose with the anterior ulnar recurrent. _ 4. The anastomotica magna (a. collateralis ulnaris inferior) arises about two inches above the elbow-joint. It passes transversely inwards upon the Brachialis auticus, and piercing the internal intermuscular septum, winds round the back part of the humerus between the Triceps and the bone, forming, by its junction with the posterior branch of the superior profunda, an arch above the olecranon fossa. As the vessel lies on the Brachialis anticus, branches ascend to join the inferior profunda ; others descend in front of the inner epicondyle, to anastomose -^nth the anterior ulnar recurrent. Behind the internal epicondyle a branch is given off to anastomose with the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries and supply the Triceps. 5. The muscular are three or four large branches, which are distributed to the muscles in the course of the artery. They supply the Coraco-brachialis, Biceps, and Brachialis anticus. Fig. 597.—Diagram of the anastomosis around the elbow-joint. Siuperior profunda Inferior prof undo Brachial III I I Anterior branch of superior profunda I I g ^BitK—I Anastotnotica magna Posterior branch of superior profunda Badial recurrent Interosseous recii rrcnl liadial Anterior ulnar recurrent Posterior ulnar recurrent Interosseous Posterior interosseous Ulnar yhiterinr interosseous The Anastomosis around the Elbow-joint (fig. 597).-The vessels engaged in tht anastomosis may be conveniently divided into those situated tn front of,