MUSCLES OP THE ABDOMEN 517 I 2. Posterior Muscles of the Abdomen Psoas luagnus. Iliacus. Psoas parvus. Quadratus lumborum. The Psoas magnus, the Psoas parvus, and the Iliacus muscles, with the fasciae covering them, will be described with the muscles of the lower extremity (see page 564). The fascia covering the Quadratus lumborum.—This is the most iinterior of the three layers of the lumbar aponeurosis. It is a thin layer of fascia covering the anterior surface of the Quackatus lumborum, and attached, internally, to the bases of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae ; below, to the ilio-lumbar ligament; above, to the apex and lower border of the last rib. The upper margin of this fascia, which extends from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the apex and lower border of the last rib, constitutes the ligamentam arcuatum externum (page 502). The Quadratus lumborum (fig. 499, page 495) is situated in the lumbar region. It is irregularly quadrilateral in shape, and broader below than above. It arises by aponeurotic fibres from the ilio-lumbar ligament and the adjacent portion of the crest of the ilium for about two inches, and is inserted into the lower border of the last rib for about half its length, and by four small tendons into the apices of the transverse processes of the upper tour lumbar vertebrae. Occasionally a second portion of this muscle is found in front of the preceding. It arises from the upper borders of the transverse processes of the lower three or four lumbar vertebrae, and is inserted into the lower margin of the last rib. The Quadi'atus lumborum is contained in a sheath formed by the anterior and middle lameU£e of the lumbar aponeurosis, in front of which are the colon, the kidney, the Psoas, and the Diaphragm ; between the fascia and the muscle are the last thoracic, ilio-inguinal, and ilio-hypogastric nerves. Nerve-supply.—The last thoracic and first and second lumbar nerves supply this muscle. Actions.—The Quadratus lumborum draws down the last rib, and acts as a muscle of inspiration by helping to fix the origin of the Diaphragm. If the thorax and spine are fixed, it may act upon the pelvis, raising it towards its own side \vhen only one muscle is put in action ; and when both muscles act together, either from below or above, they flex the trunk. IV. Muscles and Fasciae of the Pelvis Obturator internus. Levator ani. Pyriformis. Coccygeus. The muscles within the pelvis may be divided into two groups : (1) the Obturator internus and the Pyriformis, which are muscles of the lower extremity, and will be described with these (page 575); (2) the Levator ani and the Coccygeus, which together form the fdvic diajihragm and are associated with the pelvic viscera. The classification of the two groups under a common heading is convenient in connection with the fasciae investing the muscles. These fasciae are closely related to one another and to the deep fascia of the pennaeum, and in addition have special connections with the fibrous coverings of the pelvic viscera ; it is customary therefore to describe them together under the term pelvic fascia. Pelvic fascia,—The fascia of tlie pelvis may be resolved into : (a) the fascial sheaths of the Obturator internus, Pyriformis, and pelvic diaphragm ; (b) the fascia associated with the pelvic viscera. The fascia of the Obturator internus covers the pelvic surface of, and is attached round the margin of the origin of, the muscle. Above, it is loosely connected to the back part of the ilio-pectineal line, and here it is continuous \vith the iliac fascia. In fi-ont of this, as it follows the luie of origin of the Obturator internus, it gradually separates from the iliac fascia and the continuity between the two is retained only through the periosteum. It arches