POPLITEAL ARTERY 717 internal popliteal nerve and the popliteal vein, the vein being between the nerve and the artery and closely adherent to the latter. On its outer side, above, are the Biceps, the internal popliteal nerve, the popliteal vein, and the external coud3'le of the femur ; below; the Plantaris and the outer head of the Gastrocnemius. On its inner side, above, are the Semimembranosus and the internal condyle of the femur ; below, the internal popliteal nerve, the popliteal vein, and the inner head of the Gastrocnemius. As already stated, the popliteal lymphatic glands, four or five in number, are grouped aroimd the artery. Peculiar Hies in -point of division.—Occasionally the popliteal artery divides into its torminal branches opposite the knee-joint. The anterior tibial under these circumstances usually passes in front of the Popliteus muscle. Unusual branches.—The artery sometimes divides into the anterior tibial and peroneal, the posterior tibial being wanting, or very small. Occasionally it divides into three branches, the anterior and posterior tibial, and peroneal. Surface Marking.—The course of the upper part of the popliteal artery is indicated by a line drawn from the outer border of the Semimembranosus muscle at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh—that is to say, from a point a little internal to the upper angle of the popliteal space—obliquely downwards to the middle of the pophteal space exactly behind the knee-joint. From this point it passes vertically downwards to the level of a line drawn through the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia. Applied Anatomy.—The popliteal artery is not infrequently the seat of injirry. It may be torn by direct violence, as by the passage of a cart-wheel over the Imee, or by hyper-extension of the knee. It may also be lacerated by fracture of the lower part of the shaft of the femur, or by antero-posterior dislocation of the knee-joint. It has been torn in breaking down adhesions in cases of fibrous ankylosis of the knee, and is in danger of being wounded, and in fact has been woimded, in performing JIacewen's operation of osteotomy of the lower end of the femur for genu valgum. The popliteal artery is more frequently the seat of aneurysm than any other artery in the body, with the exception of the thoracic aorta. No doubt this is due in a great measure to the amount of movement to which it is subjected, and to the fact that it is supported by loose and lax tissue only, and not by muscles as is the case with most arteries. Wlien the knee is acutely flexed the pophteal artery becomes bent on itself to such an extent as to entirely arrest the circulation through it. Ligature of the pophteal artery is requhed in cases of wound of the vessel, but for aneurysm it is preferable to tie the femoral. The pophteal may be tied in the upper or lower part of its course ; but in the middle of the ham the operation is attended -with considerable difficulty, from the great depth of the artery, and from the extreme degree of tension of the lateral boundaries of the space. In order to expose the upper part of the vessel, the patient should be placed in the supine position, with the knee flexed and the thigh abducted and rotated outwards, so that it rests on its outer surface ; an incision three inches in length, beginning at the j unction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh, is to be made parallel to and immediately behind the tendon of the Adductor magnus, and the skin, superficial and deep fasciae divided. The tendon of the muscle is thus exposed, and is to be drawn forwards, and the hamstring tendons backwards. A quantity of fatty tissue wiU now be opened up, in which the artery wiU be felt pulsating. This is to be separated with the pouit of a director until the artery is exposed. The vein and nerve will not be seen, as they lie to tlie outer side of the artery. The sheath is to be opened and the aneurysm needle passed from before backwards, keeping its point close to the artery for fear of injuring the vein. The only structure to avoid in the superficial incision is the long saphenous vein. To expose the vessel in the lower part of its course, where the artery lies between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius, the patient should be placed in the prone position with the hmb extended. An incision should then be made through the integument in the middle hne. commencing opposite the bend of the knee-joint, care being taken to avoid the external saphenous vein and nerve. After dividing the deep fascia, and separating some dense cellular tissue, the artery, vein, and nerve will be exposed, between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius. Some muscular branches of the popliteal should be avoided if possible, or, if divided, tied immediately. The leg being now flexed, in order the more effectually to separate the two heads of the Gastrocnemius, the nerve should oe drawn inwards and the vein outwards, and the aneurysm needle passed between the artery and vein from without inwards. Branches.—The branches of the popliteal artery are : Muscular I ^^P^^ior. Superior external articular. 1 Inferior or Sural. Azygos articular. Cutaneous. Inferior internal articular. Superior internal articular. Inferior external articular.