OSTEOLOGY 234 ethmoidal air-ceUs. The lateral margin of the anterior surface is serrated, and articulates witli the os planum of the ethmoid, completing the posterior ethmoidal cells ; the lowei- margin articulates with the orbital process of the palate bone, and the upper ^^•ith the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The inferior surface presents, in the middle line, a triangular spine, the rostrum sphenoidale, which is continuous with, the crista sphenoidahs on the anterior surface, and is received in a deep fissure between the alae of the vomer. On either side of the rostrum is a projecting lamina, the jyrocessus vaginalis, directed mwards from the base of the internal pterygoid plate, with which it will be described. The greater wings, or aU-sphenoids (alae magnse), are two strong pro- cesses of bone, which arise from the sides of the body, and are curved in a direction outwards, upwards, and backwards ; the posterior part of each pro- jects outwards and backwards as a triangular process %¥hich fits into the angle between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal and presents at its apex a downwardly directed process, the sphenoidal spine (spina angularis). The superior or cerebral surface of each greater wing (fig. 301) forms part of the middle fossa of the skull ; it is deeply concave, and presents depressions for the convolutions of the temporal lobe of the brain. At its anterior and internal part is a circular aperture, the foramen rotundum, for the transmission of the second division of the fifth cranial nerve. Behind and external to this Pig. 303.—Sphenoid bone. Posterior surface. is a large, oval opening, the foramen ovale, for the transmission of the third division of the fifth nerve, the small meningeal artery, and sometimes the small superficial petrosal nerve.* At the inner side of the foramen ovale, a small aperture, the foramen Vesalii, may occasionally be seen opposite the root of the pterygoid process ; it opens below near the scaphoid fossa, and transmits a small vem from the cavernous siiius. Lastly, m the posterior angle, near to and in fi-ont of the spme, is a short canal, sometimes double, the foramen spinosum, which transmits the middle meningeal artery and vein and a recurrent branch from the thurd division of the fifth cranial nerve. The external surface (fig. 302) is convex, and divided by a transverse ridge, the infratemporal crest (crista infrateraporalis), uito two portions. The superior or larger (facies temporahs), convex from above dowmwards, concave from before backwards, forms a part of the temporal fossa, and gives attachment to the Temporal muscle. The mferior portion (facies infratemporalis), smaller in size and concave, enters mto the formation of the zygomatic fossa, and together with the infratemporal crest, affords attachment to the External pterygoid muscle. It presents tlie openmgs of the foramen ovale and foramen spmbsum, and, at its posterior part, the sphenoidal spine, which is frequently grooved on its inner aspect for the chorda tympam nerve. To the ^hcnoidal • The small superficial petrosal nerve sometimes passes through a special canal (cimaliculiis innominatus of Arnold) situated on the inner side of the foramen spmo.<=um.