286 OSTEOLOGY tho head and shoulders just raised. The central incisor tooth on the affected side is then extracted. One incision is begun just below the inner canthus of the eye and passes along tho side of tho noso, round the ala, and down tho middle lino of the upper li]) into the mouth. A second incision is made from the commencement of the first, along the lower border of tho orbit as far as the prominence of the malar bone. The flap thus formed is reflected outwards, so as to expose the bone. Tlie periosteum attached along the lower margin of the orbit is now to be incised, and with the handle of the scalpel the periosteum covering the floor of the orbit is to be raised from the bone ; for in aU cases it is essential that this fibrous layer should not be removed. The mouth is now \videly opened with a gag, and the mucous membrane covering the hard palate incised down to the bone in the middle line, and the soft palate separated from the hard. The surgeon now proceeds to divide the connections of the bone with the other bones of the face, having first separated the ala of the nose from its bony attachment. They are (1) the junction with the malar bone, the line of section being caiTied into the spheno-maxillary fissure ; (2) the frontal process of the maxilla ; a small portion of its upper extremity, connected with the nasal bone in front, the lachrymal bone behind, and the frontal bone above, being left ; (3) the connection with opposite maxilla and with the palate bone in the roof of the mouth. The bone is now firmly grasped with hon-forceps ; and by means of a rocking movement upwards and downwards, the remaining attachments of the orbital plate mth the ethmoid, and of the back of the bone with the palate, are broken through. Occasionally, in removing the upper jaw, it will be found that the orbital plate can be saved, and this should always be done if possible. A horizontal saw-cut is to be made just below the infra-orbital foramen, and the bone cut through in this situation. THE EXTREMITIES The extremities, or limbs, are long, jointed appendages of the body, each of which is connected to the trunk by one end, and is free in the rest of its extent. They are four in number : an tifftr or thoracic fair, connected with the thorax and subservient mainly to prehension ; and a lower fair, connected Mdth the vertebral column, intended for support and locomotion. Both pairs of hmbs are constructed after one common type, but certain differences are observed between the upper and lower pairs, dependent on the peculiar offices they have to perform. The bones by which the upper and lower limbs are attached to the trunk are named respectively the shoulder and pelvic girdles. The shoulder girdle (cingulum extremitatis superioris) is formed by the scapulae and clavicles, and is imperfect in front and behmd. In front, however, it is completed by the upper end of the sternum, with wliich the inner extremities of the clavicles articulate. Behind, it is widely imperfect, the scapulae being connected to the trunk by muscles only. The -pelvic girdle (cmgulum extremitatis inferions) is formed by the innomuiate bones, which articulate mth each other in front, at the symphysis pubis. It is imperfect behind, but the gap is fiUed in by the upper part of the sacrum. The pelvic girdle therefore presents, with the sacrum, a complete rmg, massive and comparatively rigid, m marked contrast to tlie hghtness and mobility of the shoulder gu-dle. BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The Clavicle The Clavicle (clavicula), or collar-bone (figs. 348 and 349), forms the anterior portion of the shoulder girdle. It is a long bone, curved somewhat like the italic letter /, and placed nearly horizontally at the upper and anterior part of the thorax, immediately above the first rib. It articulates by its inner extremitv with the upper end of the sternum, and by its outer with the acromion process of the scapula.* It presents a double curvature, the convexity bemg directed forwards at the sternal end, and the concavity at the scapular end. Its outer third is flattened from above downwards, whilst its * The clavicle acts especially as a fulcrum to enable the muscles to give lateral motion to the arm lb is accordingly absent in those ammals whose fore-limbs are used only for n».rres^on bub IS present-for the most parb in animals whose anterior extremities arc Ed aZl-uS for prehension, though in some of them-as. for '^^'^-^l^^J:^::^!: ^^^ll of the carnivora-it is merely a rudimentary bone suspended among the muscles, and not articulating with cither the scapula or sternum.