1215 THE PENIS dorsum of the organ to form the deep dorsal vein ; others pass out on the upper surface of the corpora cavernosa and join the same vein ; some emerge from the under surface of the corpora cavernosa and, receiving branches from the corpus spongiosum, wind round the sides of the penis to terminate in the deep dorsal vein ; but the greater number pass out at the root of the penis and join the prostatic plexus. The fibrous envelope of the corpus spongiosum is thinner, whiter in colour, and more elastic than that of the corpora cavernosa. The trabeculas are moi'e delicate, nearly uniform in size, and the meshes between them smaller than in the corpora cavernosa : their long diameters, for the most part, corresponding with that of the penis. The external envelope or outer coat of the corpus spongiosum is formed partly of unstriped muscular fibre, and a layer of the same tissue immediately surrounds the canal of the m-ethra. The lympJiatics of the penis are described on page 789. The nerves are derived from the intefnal pudic nerve and the pelvic plexuses. On the glans and bulb some filaments of the cutaneous nerves have Pacinian bodies connected with them, and, according to Ki-ause, many of them terminate in peculiar end-bulbs (see page 60). Applied Anatomij.—The penis occasionally requires removal for malignant disease. Usually, removal of the ante-scrotal portion is all that is necessary, but sometimes it is requisite to remove the whole organ from its attachment to the rami of the pubes and ischia. The former operation is performed by cutting through the corpora cavernosa from the dorsum, and then separating the corpus spongiosum from them, dividing it at a level nearer the glans penis. The mucous membrane of the urethra is then sht up, and the edges of the flap attached to the external skin, in order to prevent contraction of the orifice, which might otherwise take place. The vessels which requke ligature are the two dorsal arteries of the penis, the arteries of the corpora cavernosa, and the artery of the septum. When the entire organ requires removal, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and an incision is made through the skin and subcutaneous tissue round the root of the penis, and carried down tlu-ough the median line of the scrotum as far as the perinseum. The two halves of the scrotum are then separated from each other, and a catheter having been introduced into the bladder as a guide, the spongy portion of the urethra below the triangular ligament is separated from the corpora cavernosa and divided, the catheter having been withdrawn. The suspensory ligament is now severed and the rura separated from the bone with a periosteum scraper, and the whole penis removed. The membranous portion of the urethra, which has not been removed, is now to be attached to the sldn at the posterior extremity of the incision in the perina3um Tlae remamder of the wound is to be brought together, free drainage being provided for. The Prostate Gland The prostate gland (prostate) is a firm, partly glandular and partly muscular body, wliich is placed immediately below tlie neck of the bladder and around the commencement of the urethra. It is situated in tiie pelvic cavity, below the lower part of the symphysis pubis, above the superior layer ot the triangular ligament, and in front of the rectum, through which it niay be distinctly felt, especially when enlarged. It is about the size of a chestnut and somewhat conical in shape, and presents for examination a base, an apex, an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral surfaces. The base (basis prostata) is directed upwards, and is ajiplied to the under surface of the bladder. The greater part of this surface is directly continuous