OSTEOLOGY 238 Articulations.—The sphenoid articulates with twelve bones : four single, the vomer, ethmoid, frontal and occipital; and four paired, the parietal, temporal, malar, and palate. The exact extent of articulation with each bone is .shown in the accompanying figures.* The Ethmoid Bone The ethmoid bone (os ethmoidale) is an exceedingly light, spongy bone, of a cubical shape ; it is situated at the anterior part of tiie base of the cranium, between the two orbits, at the roof of the nose, and contributes to each of these cavities. It consists of four parts : a horizontal or cribriform plate, which forms part of the base of the cranium; a perpen- dicular plate, which consti- tutes part of the nasal septum; and two lateral masses. The cribriform plate (lamina cribrosa) (fig. 306) is received into the ethmoid notch of the fi-ontal bone and roofs in the nasal fossae. Projecting upwards from the middle line of this plate is a tMck, smooth, tri- angular process, the crista galli, so called from its re- semblance to a cock's comb. Its base joins the cribriform plate. Its posterior border, long, thin, and slightly curved, serves for the attach- ment of the falx cerebri. Its anterior border, short and thick, articulates with the frontal bone, and presents two small projecting alar processes, wliich are received into corre- sponding depressions in the frontal bone and complete the foramen caecum. Its sides are smooth, and sometimes bulging from the presence of a smaU air- FiG. 307.—Perpendicular plate of ethmoid (enlarged). Shown by removing the right lateral mass. sinus in the intei-ior. On each side of the crista galli, the cribriform plate is narrow and deeply grooved; it supports the bulb of the olfactory lobe of the brain, and is perforated by foramina for the passage of the olfactoiy nerves. The foramina in the middle of the groove are small and transmit the nerves * It also sometimes articulates with the tuberosity of the maxilla (see page 242). Fig. 306.—Ethmoid bone. Outer surface of right lateral mass (enlarged). u'if/l infjiurbinfited 6-