647 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY 7. The ophthalmic artery (a. ophthalmica) (fig. 581) arises from the iiiterual carotid, just as that vessel is emerging from the cavernous sums, on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and enters the orbital cavity through the optic foramen, below and on the outer side of the optic nerve. It then passes over the nerve to the inner wall of the orbit, and thence horizontally forwards, beneath the lower border of the Superior obUque muscle, to a point behind the internal angular process of the frontal bone, where it divides into two terminal branches, the frontal and nasal. As the artery crosses the optic nerve it is accompanied, by the nasal nerve, and is separated from the frontal nerve by the Rectus superior and Levator palpebrae superioris muscles. The branches of the ophthalmic artery may be dixdded into an orUtal group, distributed to the orbit and surrounding parts ; and an ocular group, to the muscles and globe of the eye. Orbital Group. Ocular Group. Lachrvmal. Central artery of the retina. Supra-orbital. Short cihary. Posterior ethmoidal. Long ciliary. Anterior ethmoidal. Anterior ciliary. Internal palpebral. Muscular. Frontal. Nasal. The lachrymal (a. lacrinialis) arises close to the optic foramen, and is one of the largest branches derived fi-om the ophthalmic : not infrequently it is given oli before the artery enters the orbit. It accompanies the lachi-ymal nerve along the upper border of the External rectus muscle, and is distributed to the lachrymal gland. Its terminal branches, escaping from the gland, are distributed to the eyehds and conjunctiva: of those .supplying the eyelids, two are of considerable size and are named the external palpebral (aa. palpebrales laterales); they run inwards in the upper and lower lids respectively and anastomose with the internal palpebral arteries, forming an arterial circle in this situation. The lachrymal artery gives ofi one or two 77ialar branches, one of which passes through a foramen in the malar bone, to reach the temporal fossa, and anastomoses with the deep temporal arteries; another apjjears on the cheek through the malar foramen, and anastomoses with the transverse facial. A recmTent branch passes backwards through the sphenoidal fissure to the dura mater, and anastomoses with a branch of the middle meningeal artery. The lachrymal artery is sometimes derived from one of the anterior branches of the middle meningeal artery. The supra-orbital (a. supraorbitalis) springs from the ophthalmic as that vessel is crossing over the optic nerve. Ascending so as to rise above all the muscles of the orbit, it runs forwards, with the supra-orbital nerve, between the periosteum and Levator palpebraj; and, passing through the supra-orbital foramen, divides into a superficial and a deep branch, which supply the integument, the muscles, and the pericranium of the fore- head, anastomosing with the frontal, the anterior branch of the temporal, and the artery of the opposite side. This artery in the orbit supplies the Superior rectus and the Levator palpebrjB, and sends a branch inwards, across the puUey of the Superior oblique muscle, to supply the parts at the inner canthus. At the supra-orbital foramen it frequently transmits a branch to the diploe. The ethmoidal branches are two in number : posterior and anterior. The posterior (a. ethmoidalis posterior), which is the smaller, passes through the posterior ethmoidal canal, supplies the posterior ethmoidal cells, and, entering the cranivim, gives oil a meningeal branch to the adjacent dura mater, and nasal branches which descend into the nose through apertures in the cribriform plate, anastomosing with branches of the spheno-palatine. The anterior ethmoidal artery (a. ethmoidahs anterior) accompanies the nasal nerve through the anterior ethmoidal canal, supphes the anterior and middle ethmoidal cells and frontal sinuses, and, entering the cranium, gives oil a meningeal branch to the adjacent dura mater, and nasal branches. These latter descend into the nose through the sht by the side of the crista galli, and, running along the groove on the under siu-face of the nasal bone, supply the skin of the nose. The palpebral arteries (aa. palpebrales mediales), two in number, superior and inferior, arise from the ophthalmic, opposite the pulley of the Superior obhque muscle ; they leave the orbit to encircle the eyehct near their free margins, forming a superior and an inferior arch, which he between the Orbicularis muscle and tarsal jjlates. The superior palpebral anastomoses, at the outer angle of the orbit, with the orbital branch of the temporal artery, and with the upper of the two external palpebral branches from the lachrymal artery; the inferior palpebral anastomoses, at the outer angle of the orbit, wth the lower of the two external palpebral branches from the lachrymal and with the transverse facial artery, and, at the inner side of the lid, with a branch from the angular artery.