638 ANGIOLOGY The branches of this vessel may be divided into three groups (fig. 578), corresponding with its three divisions. Branches of the First or Maxillary Portion Tympanic (anterior). Mddle meningeal. Deep auricular. Small meningeal. Inferior dental. The tympanic (a. tympanica anterior) passes upwards behind the temporo- mandibular articulation, enters the tympanum through the Glaserian fissure, and ramifies upon the membrana tympani, forming a vascular circle around the membrane with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior amicular, and anastomosing with the Vidian and with the tympanic branch from the mternal carotid. . . • i i The deep auricular (a. auricularis profunda) often arises m common with the preceding. It ascends in the substance of the parotid gland, behind the temporo- mandibukr articulation, pierces the cartilaginous or bony wall of the external auditory meatus, and supplies its cuticular lining and the outer surface of the membrana tympani. It gives a branch to the temporo-mandibular joint. The middle meningeal (a. meningea media) is the largest of the branches which supply the dura mater. It ascends between the internal lateral hgament and the External pterygoid muscle, and between the two roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve to the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, through which it enters the cranium ; it then rmis upwards and forwards in a groove on the greater wmg of the sphenoid'bone, and divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. The anterior branch, the larger, crosses the greater wing of the sphenoid, reaches the groove or canal in the antero-inf erior angle of the parietal bone, and then divides into branches which spread out between the dura mater and internal surface of the cranium some passing upwards as far as the vertex, and others backwards to the occipital region The posterior branch crosses the squamous portion of the temporal, and on the inner surface of the parietal bone divides into branches which supply the posterior part of the dura mater and cranium. The branches of this vessel are distributed partly to the dura mater, but chiefly to the bones ; they anastomose with the arteries of the opposite side, and with the anterior and posterior menmgeal. The middle meningeal on entering the cranium gives oS the following branches: 1. Numerous smaU vessels which supply the Gasserian gangUon and the dura mater in this situation. 2. A petrosal branch (ramus petrosus superficiahs), which enters the hiatus FaUopH supplies the facial nerve, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior aui-icular artery. 3. A minute tympanic branch (a. tympamca supenor), which CB [n the canal for the Tensor tympani muscle, and suppUes this muscle and the limng ^brane of the canal. 4. Orbital branches, which pass through the sphenoidal fissure Sough separate canals in the greater wing of the sphenoid to anastomose .^■lth the kchrZal or other branches of the ophthalmic artery 5. Temj^ml or aMwt,c brarSs! which pass through foramina m the greater^^dng of the sphenoid, and anastomose in thp temnoral fossa with the deep temporal arteries. ., • i Av3 Anatomy.-The middle meningeal is an artery of considerable surgical importance as it may be torn in fractures of the temporal region of he skull, or, indeed, b7iniSs causiiirBeparation of the dura mater from the bone without fracture. The SuTmay be followed by considerable haemorrhage between the bone and dura mater which m^v produce compression of the brain, and require trephmmg for it-s rehef. As The corpresKimplicates the motor region of the cortex, paralysis on the opposite . de of the bodv formT the prominent symptom of the lesion. The anterior branch of this artery cro sesX antero-inferior angle'of the parietal bone at a point H inch behind the external angular process of the frontal bone, and If inch above the zygoma 53). got rt/:i '^t,^«»^. .1.0 bi..d,„g ,»int««.. b, fou.d .„<. controlled.