MYOLOGY 500 border forms the posterior boundary of the posterior triangle of the neck, and presents a slight ridge which passes downwards and forwards from the occiput to tlio junction of the middle and outer thirds of the clavicle. The inferior border of the muscle may be traced as an undulating ridge to the spinous process of the twelfth thoracic vertebra. In like manner, the Latissimus dorsi softens down and obscures the underlying structures at the lower part of the back and side of the chest. The anterior border of the muscle is the only part which gives a distinct surface form. This border may be traced, when the muscle is in action, as a rounded edge, starting from the crest of the ilium, and passing obliquely forwards and upwards to the posterior border of the axilla, where together with the Teres major it forms a thick rounded fold, the posterior boundary of the axillary space. The muscles in the second layer influence to a very considerable extent the surface form of the back of the neck and upper part of the trunk. The Levator anguli scapulce reveals itself as an elevation, rurming do^vnwards and outwards, from the trans- verse processes of the upper cervical vertebrae to the angle of the scapula, covered over and toned down by the overlying Trapezius. The Rhomboidei produce, when in action, a vertical eminence between the vertebral border of the scapula and the spinal furrow, varying in intensity according to the condition of contraction or relaxation of the Trapezius muscle, by which they are for the most part covered. The lowermost part of the Rhom- boideus major is uncovered by the Trapezius and forms on the surface an obUque ridge running upwards and inwards from the inferior angle of the scapula. The Splenii by their divergence serve to broaden out the upper part of the back of the neck and produce a fulness in this situation. In the loin, the Erector spince, bound down by the lumbar fascia, forms a rounded vertical eminence, which determines the depth of the spinal furrow, and tapers below to a point on the posterior surface of the sacrum. In the back it forms a flattened plane which gradually becomes lost on passing upwards. Applied Anatomy.—In cases of tuberculous caries of the vertebral bodies, and in other diseases affecting the vertebral column, rigidity of the spinal muscles is one of the earliest and most constant symptoms. A child with commencing spinal disease always maintains the affected portion of the column in a state of absolute rigidity, to prevent the inflamed structures from being moved against each other; this is one of the best examples of nature's method of producing rest of the affected part. II. Muscles and Fascia of the Thorax The muscles belonging exclusively to this region are the Intercostales externi. Triangularis sterni. Intercostales interni. Levatores costarum. Infracostales. Diaphragm. Intercostal fasciae.—In each intercostal space thin but firm layers of fascia cover the outer surface of the External intercostal and the inner surface of the Internal intercostal muscle ; and a, third layer, the middle intercostal fascia, more 'delicate, is mterposed between the two planes of muscular fibres. They are best marked in those situations where the muscular fibres are deficient, as between the External intercostal muscles and sternum in front, and between the Internal intercostals and vertebral column, behind. The Intercostal muscles (fig. 518) are tM-o thua planes of muscular and tendinous fibres occupying each of the intercostal spaces. They are named external and internal from their surface relations—the external bemg superficial to the internal. The External intercostals (mm. intercostales externi) are eleven ni number on either side. They extend from the tubercles of the ribs, behmd, to the outer ends of the cartilages of the ribs, in front, where they terminate m a thin membrane, the anterior intercostal membrane, which is continued for\\ ards to the sternum. Each arises from the lower border of a rib, and is inserted into the upper border of the rib below. In the two lower spaces they extend to the ends of the cartilages, and in the upper two or three spaces they do not quite reach the ends of the ribs. They are thicker than the Internal inter- costals, and their fibres are directed obliquely dow nwards and outwards on the back of the chest, and downwards, forwards, and inwards on tlie front. The Internal intercostals (mm. intercostales interni) are also eleven in number on either side. They commence anteriorly at the sternum, in the interspaces between the cartilages of tlie true ribs, and at tlie anterior extremities of the cartilages of the false ribs, and extend backwards as tar as the angles of the ribs, whence tliey are continued to tlie vertebral column by a tliin aponeurosis, the posterior intercostal membrane. Each arises trom