SPLANCHNOLOGY 1240 innominate vein, and in the tliyroid veins. The hjmpkalics are described on naue 703 ihe nerve^ are exceedingly minute ; they are derived from the pneumogastric and sympal thetic. Branches from the descendens hypoglossi and phrenic reach the investing capsule but do not penetrate into the substance of the gland. Applied Anatomy.—Sudden death—' thymus death'—with heart-failure, and with or without acute respiratory embarrassment, has been recorded in a number of infants and children ui w-hom the thymus gland was considerably enlarged and the lymphatic tissues tliroughout the body showed general hypertrophy, but ^^■ho showed no other evidence of disease. Such deaths have often occurred during the administration of anaisthetics particularly chloroform. How far the enlarged thymus was responsible for the death of these patients, and, if it was responsible, how far its action was mechanical, arc points that have been much disputed. Short of producing this sudden death, it appears that thymic enlargement may cause attacks of respiratory stridor, or noisy and difficult breathing and spasmodic attacks of asthmar—' thymic asthma '—wliich may be frequently repeat(S and may even result in death. Primary tumours of the thymus are rare forms of mediastinal new growth, and are usually dermoids or lymphosarcomas. The Spleen The spleen (lien) is situated principally in the left hypochondriac region, but its upper and inner extremity extends into the epigastric region ; it lies between the fundus of the stomach and the Diaphragm. It is the largest of the ductless glands, and is of an oblong, flattened form, soft, of very friable consistence, higlily vascular, and of a dark purpUsh colour. Relations.—The external or diaphragmatic surface (facias diaphragm atica) is convex, smooth, and is directed upwards, backwards, and to the left, except at its upper end, where it is directed slightly inwards. It is in relation with the under surface of the Diaphragm, which separates it from the ninth, tenth, Fig. 1025.—The spleen, showing its gastric and renal surfaces. Sihis and eleventh ribs of the left side, and the intervening lower border of the left lung and pleura. The internal surface is divided by a ridge into an anterior or gastric, and a posterior or renal portion. The gastric surface (facies gastiica), wliich is directed forwards and inwards, is broad and concave, and is in contact witli the posterior wall of tlie fundus of tlie stomacli ; and below this with tlie tail of tlie ])ancreas. It presents near its inner border a long fissure, termed the liilus. This is pierced by several irregular apertures, for tlie entrance and exit of vessels and nerves. The renal surface (facies rcnalis) is directed inwards and downwards. It is somewhat flattened, is considerably narrower tlian tlic gastric surface, and