CERVICAL VERTEBRA 187 for the attachment of muscles which serve to rotate the head upon the ""^^^he seventh cervical vertebra (fig. 252).—The most distinctive char- acteristic of this vertebra is the existence of a long and promment spinous process; hence the name Fig. 252.—Seventh cervical vertebra, or vertebra prominens. Body- vertebra prominens. This pro- cess is thick, nearly horizontal in direction, not bifurcated, but terminating in a tubercle, to which the lower end of the hgamentum nuchse is attached. The transverse processes are of considerable size, their pos- terior tubercles are large and prominent, while the anterior are small and faintly marked ; the upper surface of each has usually a shallow groove, and its extremity seldom presents more than a trace of bifurca- tion. The foramen in the transverse process may be as large as that in the other cervical vertebrae, but is generally smaller on one or both sides ; occasionally it is double, sometimes it is absent. On the left side it occasion- ally gives passage to the ver- tebral artery; more frequently the vertebral vem traverses it on both sides ; but the usual arrangement is for both artery and vein to pass in front of the transverse process, and not through the foramen. Sometimes the anterior root of the transverse process exists as a separate bone, and attains a large size. It is then known as a ' cervical rib.' Spinous process Thobacic or Doesal Vertebb^ The thoracic or dorsal vertebrae (vertebrae thoracales) (fig. 253) are intermediate in size between those of the cervical and lumbar regions; they increase in size from above do'nnwards, the upper vertebrae being much smaller than those in the lower part of the region. They are distinguished by the presence of facets on' the sides of the bodies for articu- lation with the heads of the ribs, and facets on the transverse processes of all, except the eleventh and twelfth, for articulation with the tubercles of the ribs. The bodies in the middle of the thoracic region possess a very characteristic form, being heart-shaped and as broad in the antero-posterior as in the trans- verse direction. At the ends of the thoracic region they resemble respectively those of the cervical and lumbar vertebrae. They are shghtly thicker behind than in front, flat above and below, convex from side to side, deeply concave behind, and slightly constricted laterally and in front. They present, on either side, two costal demi-facets, one above, near the root of the pedicle, the other below, in front of the inferior intervertebral notch ; these are covered Avith cartilage in the recent state, and, when the vertebrae are articulated with one another, form, with the intervening intervertebral discs, oval surfaces for the reception of the heads of the ribs. The pedicles are directed backwards and shghtly upwards, and the inferior intervertebral notches are of large size, and deeper than in any other region of the vertebral column. The lamince are broad, thick, and imbricated—that is to say, they overlap one another like tiles on a roof. The spinal foramen is small, and of a circular form. The spinous process is long, triangular on coronal section, directed obliquely downwards, and terminates in a tubercular extremity. These processes overlap one another from the fifth to the eighth, but are less oblique in direction above