SPLANCHNOLOGY UNDER this heading are inchided the respiratory, digestive and uro-genital organs, and the ductless glands. RESPIRATORY ORGANS The respiratory organs (apparatus respiratorius) consist of the larynx or organ of voice, the trachea, bronchi, lungs and pleurse. The Labynx The larynx, or organ of voice, is placed at the upper part of the air-passage. It is situated between the trachea and base of the tongue, at the upper and fore part of the neck, where it forms a considerable projection in the middle line. On either side of it lie the great vessels of the neck ; it forms the lower part of the anterior wall of the pharynx, and is covered behind by the mucous fining of that cavity. Its vertical extent corresponds to the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, but it is placed somewhat higher in the female and also during childhood. In infants between six and twelve months of age Symington found that the tip of the epiglottis was a little above the level of the cartilage between the odontoid process and body of the axis, and that between infancy and adult life the larynx descends for a distance equal to two vertebral bodies and two intervertebral discs. According to Sappey the average measurements of the adult larynx are as follows : In males In females Length 44 mm. 36 mm. Transverse diameter ... 43 ,, 41 ,, Antero-posterior diameter. 36 ,, 26 ,, Circumference .... 136 ., 112 ,, Until puberty the larynx of the male and that of the female differ little in size. In the female its further increase at puberty is only slight, whereas in the male it is great; all the cartilages are enlarged and the thyroid becomes prominent in the middle line of the neck, while the length of the glottis is nearly doubled. The larynx is broad above, where it presents the form of a triangular box, flattened behind and at the sides, and bounded in front by a prominent vertical ridge. Below, it is narrow and cylindrical. It is composed of cartilages, which are connected together by ligaments and moved by numerous muscles. It is lined by mucous membrane which is continuous above with that of the pharynx and below with that of the trachea. The cartilages of the larynx (cartilagines laryngis) (fig. 876) are nine in number, three single, and three paired, as follows : Thyroid. Two Arytenoid. Cricoid. Two Cornicula laryngis. Epiglottis. Two Cuneiform. The thyroid cartilage (cartilago thyreoidea) is the largest cartilage of the larynx. It consists of two alte or laminae the anterior borders of which are fused with each other at a right angle in the middle line of the neck, and 3 Y 2