332 OSTEOLOGY Fractures of the pelvis are divided into those of the false and those of the true pelvis. Fractures of the false pelvis vary in extent; a small portion of the crest may be broken, or one of the spinous processes may be torn off, or the bone may be extensively comminuted. This latter accident is the result of some crushing violence, and may be complicated with fracture of the true pelvis. These cases may be accompanied by injury to the intestine as it lies in the hollow of the bone, or to the iliac vessels as they course along the margin of the true pelvis. A fracture of the true pelvis generally occurs through the ascending ramus of the pubis and the ramus of the ischium, as these are the ^^'eake8t parts of the bony ring, and may be caused either by crushing violence applied in an antero-posterior direction, when the fracture occurs from direct force, Oi- by compression laterally, when the acetabula are jircssed together and the bone gives way in the same place from indirect violence. Sometimes the fracture may be double, occurring on both sides of the body. It is in these cases that the contained viscera are likely to be injured : the urethra, the bladder, the rectum, the vagina in the female, the small intestines, and even the uterus, have all been lacerated by displaced fragments. Fractures of the acetabulum are occasionally met with : either a portion of the rim may be broken off, or a fracture may take place through the bottom of the ca^nty, and the head of the femur be driven inwards and project into the pelvic cavity. Separation of the Y-shaped cartilage at the bottom of the acetabulum may also occur in the young subject, spUtting the bone into its three portions. The coccyx is not infrequently fractured or displaced forwards to nearly a right angle with the sacrum by kicks or by falls backwards. The fracture is attended with gi-eat pain in walking and on making any expu'atory effort, such as coughing, defoecation, &c., because the Coccygeus, which is attached to this bone, forms part of the pelvic diaphragm. Falls or blows on the coccyx, imaccompanied by fractui-e, sometimes give rise to severe pain, which is exceedingly mtractable and difficult of cure. The condition is known as coccygodynia, and for its relief removal of the coccyx has been practise^- The pelvic bones often undergo important deformity in rickets, the effects of which in the adult woman may interfere seriously with child-bearmg. The deformity is due mainly to the weight of the spine and trmik, which presses on the sacro-vertebral angle and greatly mcreases it, so that the antero-posterior diameter of the pelvis is dimmished, and may measure as little as IJ mches, the entrance into the pelvis becoming reniform. In other cases all the pelvic bones give way, so that a general diminution in aU the diameters of the pelvis results, the pelvic entrance becommg triangular or asymmetrical. If the pubic symphysis be forced forwards, the rickety pelvis may even come to resemble closely the deformed pelvis of osteomalacia ; in this disease the weight of the trunk causes an increase in the sacro-vertebral angle, and a lessening of the antero-posterior diameter of the inlet, and at the same time the pressure of the heads of the thigh-bones on the acetabula causes these cavities, with the adjacent bone, to be pushed upwards and backwards, so that the obhque diameters of the pelvis are also diminished, and the cavity of the pelvis assumes a tri-radiate shape, with the symphysis pubis pushed forwards. The Fbmxje The Femur (figs. 387 and 388), the longest, largest, and strongest bone in the skeleton, is almost perfectly cylindrical in the greater part of its extent. In the erect posture it is not vertical, being separated above from its feUow by a considerable interval, which corresponds to the breadth of the pelvis but inclinmg gradually do-miwards and mwards, so as to approach its fellow towards its lower part, for the purpose of bringmg the knee-joint near the line of gravity of the body. The degree of this mclmation vanes m different persons, and is greater in the female than in the male, on account of the greater breadth of the pelvis. The femur, like other long bones, is divisible mto a shaft and two extremities. . , j ^ The upper extremity (fig. 386) presents for examination a head, a neck, a great and a small trochanter. The head (caput femoris), wliich is globular, and forms rather more than a hemisphere, is du-ected upwards, inwards, and a Httle forwards, the gi-eater part of its convexity bemg above and in front. Its surface is smooth, coated with cartilage in the recent state, except over a depressed ovoid area (fovea capitis femoiis), which is situated a little below and behmd its centre, and gives attachment to the ligamentum teres. ., , « , , Tlie neck (collum femoris) is a flattened pyramidal process of bone, wiiicli connects the head with tlie shaft, and forms with the latter a_Ande angle The angle is widest m mfancy, and becomes essened durmg gro^^•th, so tliat at puberti it forms a gentle curve from the axis of the sliaft. In the adult, the Lck forms an angll of about 125° with the shaft, but this varies m mverse