SURFACE FORM OF MUSCLES OF LOWER EXTREMITY 593 Extensor tendons aid that muscle in straightening the middle and terminal phalanges. The only muscle in the extensor group is the Extensor brevis digitorum. It extends the first phalanx of the great toe and assists the long Extensor in extending the next three toes, and at the same time gives to the toes an outward direction when they are extended. Surface Form.—The skin of the thigh, especially above in the hollow of the groin and on the inner side, is thin, smooth, and elastic, and contains few hairs, except in the neigh- bourhood of the pubes. Towards the outer side it becomes thicker, and the hahs are more numerous. The skin over the buttock is also fairly thick, with low sensibility and vascularity. As a rule, it is destitute of conspicuous hairs, except towards the post-anal furrow, where, in some males, an abundant development of hair is present. The skin over the front of the knee is covered by thickened epidermis ; it is loose and thrown into transvei"se wrinkles when the leg is extended : that of the leg is thin, especially on the inner side, and covered with numerous large hairs. On the dorsum of the foot the skin is thin, loosely connected to subjacent parts, and contains few hairs. On the sole, and especially the heel, the epidermis is of great thickness, and here, as in the palm of the hand, there are no hairs or sebaceous follicles. Of the muscles of the thigh, those of the anterior femoral region largely contribute to the surface form of this part of the limb. The Tensor fascioB femoris produces a broad elevation immediately below the anterior portion of the crest of the ilium and behind the anterior superior spinous process. From its lower border, a longitudinal groove, corre- sponding to the ilio-tibial band, extends to the outer side of the knee-joint. The Sartorius, when it is brought into action by flexing the leg on the thigh, and the thigh on the pelvis, and rotating the thigh outwards, presents a well-marked surface form. At its upper part, where it constitutes the outer boimdary of Scarpa's triangle, it forms a prominent oblique ridge, which becomes changed into a flattened plane below, and this gradually merges in a general fulness on the inner side of the knee-joint. When the Sartorius is not in action, a depression exists between the Quadriceps extensor and the Adductor muscles, and extends obUquely downwards and inwards from the apex of Scarpa's triangle to the inner side of the knee. In the angle formed by the divergence of the Sartorius and Teasor fascia? femoris muscles, just below the anterior superior spine of the ilium, the Rectus femoris muscle appears, and, below this, determines to a great extent the convex form of the front of the tliigh. In a well-developed subject, the borders of the muscle, when in action, can be clearly defined. The Vastus externus forms a long flattened plane on the outer side of the thigh, traversed by the longitudinal groove formed by the ilio-tibial band. The Vasliis internm, on the inner side of the lower half of the thigh, gives rise to a considerable prominence, which mcreases towards the knee and terminates somewhat abruptly in this situation with a full, curved outline. The CrurexLS and Subcrureus are completely hidden, and do not directly influence surface form. The Adductor muscles, constituting the internal femoral group, cannot be distinguished from each other, with the exception of the upper tendon of the Adductor longus and the lower tendon of the .4dductor magnus. When the Adductor longus is in action its upper tendon stands out a,s a prominent ridge, which runs obliquely downwards and outwards from the neighbour- hood of the pubic spine, and forms the inner boundary of Scarpa's triangle. The lower tendon of the Adductor magnus can be distinctly felt as a short ridge extenduig Aovm to the adductor tubercle on the internal condyle, between the Sartorius and Vastus internus. The Adductor group of muscles fills in the triangular space at the upper part of the thigh, between the oblique femur and the pelvis, and to them is due the contour of the inner border of the thigh, the Gracilis largely contributing to the smoothness of the outline. These muscles are not marked olT on the surface from the hamstrings by any intermuscular depression ; but on the outer side of the thigh the latter are defined from the Vastus externus by a distinct marking, ooiTcsponding to the external intermuscular septum. The Glutem maximus, and the Gbiteus medius in its upper part, are the only muscles of the buttock which influence surface form. The lower part of the Gluteus medms, the Gluteus minimus, and the External rotators are completely hidden. The Gluteus maximus forms the full rounded outline of the buttock ; it is more prominent behind, compressed in front, and terminates at its tendinous insertion in a depression immediately behind the great trochanter. Its lower border does not correspond to the gluteal fold, but is much more obhque, being marked by a line drawn from the side of the coccyx to tlie junction of the upper with the middle thhd of the thigh on the outer side. From beneath the lower margin of this muscle the Hamstring muscles appear, at first narrow and not well marked, but, as they descend, tliey become more prominent, and eventuaUy divide into two well-marked ridges formed by their tendons, which constitute the upper boundaries of the popliteal space. In the upper part of the thigh these muscles cannot be individually distinguished from each other ; but lower do%vn, the separation between the Semi- tendinosus and Semimembranosus is denoted by a slight intermuscular marking. The external hamstring tendon formed by the Biceps is seen as a thick cord running down to the head of the fibula. The inner hamstring tendons comprise the Semitendinosus and the Semimembranosus. The Semitendinosus is the more internal, and can be felt, in oertnin Q Q