THE CRURA CEREBRI 841 White matter.—(1) The origin and course of the superior cerebellar -peduncle liave ah'eady been described (page 830). (2) The dorsal or posterior longitudinal fasciculus (fig. 715) is continuous below M'ith the antero-lateral ground-bundle of the spinal cord ; and lias been traced by Edinger as far as a nucleus, the nucleus o f the posterior longitudinal fasciculus, situated in the hypothalamus, immediately in front of the aqueduct of Sjdvius. In the nieduUa oblongata and pons, it runs close to the middle line, near the floor of the fourth ventricle ; in the mid-brain, it is situated on the ventral aspect of the S3dvian aqueduct, below the nuclei of the thii-d and fourth nerves. Its connections are imperfectly kno\\n, but it consists largely of ascending and descending intersegmental or association fibres, which connect the various nuclei of the mid- and hind-brains to each other. Many of the descending Fig. 715.—Scheme of tlie posterior longitudinal fasciculus ; motor fibres in red, sensory, in blue. Xudt-us of post f nor longitiuiiiial fasdcuUis Superior i/undrinemiml bodii Xudeus of fourth nerve Nudeus of fifth nerve .Yudeus of sixth nerve Xudeus of seventh nerve Xudetis of ninth and tenth nerves Xudeus of twelfth nerve Nudeus of eleventh i 1 fibres arise in the superior quadrigeminal body, and, after decussating in the 'middle line, terminate in the motor nuclei of the pons and medulla. The '■ascending fibres arise from the cells of the grey matter of the upper part of the cord, and from the nuclei in the medulla and pons, and pass, without undergoing '■aecussation, to the liigher nuclei. Fibres are also carried tlirough the posterior longitudmal fasciculus from tlie nucleus of the sixtli nerve into the third nerve lot the opposite side, and througii this nerve to tlie Internal rectus of the eyeball. ^Again, fibres are said to be prolonged through this fasciculus from the nucleus ot the thu-d nerve into the seventh nerve, and are distributed to tlie Orbicularis '^palpebrarum, the Corrugator supercilii, and the Occipito-frontalis.* a,J p^' ""'^ f H^'i'^'^y ' On the Origrin of the Facial Nerve,' Jlcvicw of Xctirolom, IhtlTl I^«cember 1908, prorluce weighty evidence against the view that ine lacwl nerve derives fibres from the nucleus of the third nerve