280 OSTEOLOGY The nasal index expresses the proportion which the width of the anterior nasal aperture bears to the height of the nose, the latter being measured from the nasion to the lower margin of the nasal aperture, thus : nasal width x 100 nasal height The degree of projection of the jaws is determined by the gnathic or alveolar index, which represents the proportion between the basi-alveolar and basi-nasal lengths, thus : basi-alveolar length x 100 basi-nasal length The following table, modified from that given by Duckworth,* illustrates how these different indices may be utilised in the classification of slnills: Index CLASSmCATION Nomenclature 1 Examples 1. Cephahc . Below 75 . . . Between 75 and 80 Above 80 . . . DoUchocephalic . Mesaticephalic Brachycephahc . Kaffirs and Native Australians Europeans and Chinese Mongolians and Andamans 2. Orbital . . Below 84 . . . Between 84 and 89 Above 89 . . . Microseme Mesoseme . Megaseme. Tasmanians and Native Austra- han? Europeans Chinese and Polynesians 3. Nasal . . . Below 48 . . . Between 48 and 53 Above 53 . . . Leptorhine Mesorhine. PlatjThine Europeans Japanese and Chinese Negroes and Native Austrahans 4. Gnathic . Below 98 . . . Between 98 and 103 Above 103 . . . Orthoguathous . Mesognathous Prognathous . Europeans Chinese and Japanese Native Australians Surface Form.—The various bony prominences or landmarks which are easily felt and recognised in the head and face, and which afford the means of mapping out the important structures comprised in this region, are as follows : 8. Parietal eminence. 9. Temporal ridge. 10. Frontal eminence. Superciliary ridge. Nasal bone. Lower margin of orbit. Mandible. 11. 12. 13. 14. 1. Supra-orbital arch •2,. Internal angular process. 3. External angular process. 4. Zygomatic arch. 5. Mastoid process. 6. External occipital protuberance. 7. Superior curved line of occipital bone. I. The supra-orbital arch can be felt throughout its entire extent, covered by the eyebrow. It forms the upper boundary of the circumference of the orbit and sejjarates the face from the forehead. It terminates internally at the root of the nose, m the uUcr7ial angular process which articulates with the lachr^^nal bone and frontal process of the maxilla, and externally in the external angular process which articulates with the malar bone. At the junction of the inner and middle thirds of the arch, a slight interruption in the outUne may sometimes be felt; this is the supra-orbital notch. When tbe notch * Morphology and Anthropology, by W. L. H. Duckworth, M.A., Cambridge University Press.