1033 THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE Structure.—The lachrymal sac consists of a fibrous elastic coat, lined internally by mucous membrane : the latter being continuous, through the lachrymal canals, with the mucous lining of the conjunctiva, and through the nasal duct with the mucous membrane of the nose. The nasal duct (ductus nasolacrimalis) is a membranous canal, about three-quarters of an mch m length, which extends from the lower part of the laclirymal sac to the inferior meatus of the nose, where it terminates by a somewhat expanded orifice, provided with an imperfect valve, the flica lacri- malis (Hasneri), formed by a fold of the mucous membrane. It is contained in an osseous canal, formed by the maxilla, the lachrymal, and the uiferior turbinated, is narrower in the middle than at either extremity, and takes a direction downwards, backwards, and a little outwards. It is lined by mucous membrane which is continuous below with that of the nose. This membrane in the lachrymal sac and nasal duct is covered with columnar epithelium as in the nose ; this epithelium is in places ciliated. Surface Form.—^The palpebral fissure, or opening between the eyelids, is elliptical in shape, and differs in size in different incUviduals and in different races of mankind. In the Mongolian races, for instance, the opening is very small, merely a narrow fissure, and this makes the eye appear small in these races, whereas the size of the eyeball is relatively very constant. The normal form of the fissure is oblique, in a direction upwards and outwards, so that the outer angle is on a slightly higher level than the imier. This is exaggerated in the Mongolian races, in whom, o%ving to the upward projection of the malar bone and the shortness of the external angular process of the frontal bone, the tarsal plate of the upper lid is raised at its outer part, and gives a very oblique dhection to the palpebral fissure. When the eyes are directed forwards, as in ordinary vision, the upper part of the cornea is covered by the upper lid, and the lower margm of the cornea corresponds to the level of the lower lid, so that about the lower three-fourths of the cornea are exposed under ordinary circumstances. On the margins of the lids, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, are two small openmgs, the pimcta lacrimalia, the commencement of the lachrymal canals. They are best seen by everting the eyehds. In the natural concUtion they are in contact with the conj\mctiva of the eyeball, and are maintained in this position by the Tensor tarsi muscle, so that the tears rimning over the surface of the globe easily fijid their way into the lachrymal canals. The position of the lachrymal sac into which the canals open is indicated by a little tubercle (page 282), which is plainly to be felt on the lower margin of the orbit. The lachrymal sac lies immediately above and to tlie inner side of this tubercle, and a knife passed through the skin in this situation would open the cavity. The position of the lachrymal sac may also be indicated by the tendo oculi, or internal tarsal ligament. If both lids be dra^vn outwards so as to tighten the skin at the uuier angle, a prominent cord vrAX be seen beneath the tightened skin. This is the tendo oculi, which lies directly over the lachrymal sac, bisecting it, and thus forming a useful guide to its situation. A knife entered immediately beneath the tense cord would open the lower part of the sac. A probe introduced through this opening can be readily passed do\\Tiwards, through the duct into the inferior meatus of the nose. The direction of the duct is downwards, outwards, and backwards, and thLs course should be borne in mind in passing the probe, otherwise the point may be cMven through the thin bony walls of the canal. A convenient plan is to direct the probe in such a manner, that if it were pushed onwards it would strike the first molar tooth of the manchble on the same side of the head. In other words, the surgeon stancUng in front of his patient should carry in his mind the position of the first molar tooth, and should push his probe onwards as if he desired to reach this structure. Beneath the internal angular process of the frontal bone, the pulley of the Superior oblique can be plainly felt by pushing the finger backwards between the upper and imier angle of the eye and the roof of the orbit; passing backwards and outwards from this pulley the tendon can be felt for a short distance. Applied Anatomy.—The eyelids are composed of various tissues, and consequently are liable to a variety of diseases. The skin which covers them is exceedingly thin and delicate, and is supported on a quantity of loose areolar subcutaneous tissue, which contains no fat. In consequence of this it is very freely movable, and is hable to be di'awn down by the contraction of neighbouring cicatrices, and thus produce an eversion of the lid, known as ectropion. Inversion of the lids (entropion) from spasm of the Orbicularis palpebrarum or from chronic inflammation of the palpebral conjunctiva may also occur. The eyehds are richly supplied with blood, and are often the seat of vascular growths, such as nsevi. Rodent ulcer frequently commences about the inner canthus. The loose cellular tissue beneath the slcin is liable to become extensively infiltrated either with blood or inflammatory products, producing very gi-eat swelling. Even from very slight injuries to this tissue, the extravasation of blood may be so great as to produce considerable swellmg of the lids and complete closure of the eye, and the same is the case