583 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE LEG Possibly, acting from below, by its attachment to the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, it may pull that ligament backwards during flexion, and so protect it from being compressed between the two articular surfaces. Deep Layer (fig. 548) Popliteus. Flexor longus digitorum. Flexor longus hallucis. Tibialis posticus. The deep transverse fascia of the leg is a transverseh' placed, inter- muscular septum, between the superficial and deep muscles in the posterior tibio-fibular region. On either side it is connected to the margins of the tibia and fibula. Above, where it covers the Popliteus, it is thick and dense, and receives an expansion from the tendon of the Semimembranosus ; it is thinner in the middle of the leg ; but below, where it covers the tendons passing behind the malleoli, it is tliickened and continuous with the hiternal armular ligament. The Popliteus is a thin, flat, triangular muscle, which forms the lower part of the floor of the popliteal space. It arises by a strong tendon about an inch in length, from a depression at the anterior part of the popliteal groove on the outer side of the external condyle of the femur, and to a small extent from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and is inserted into the inner two-thu'ds of the triangular surface above the oblique line on the posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia, and into the tendinous expansion covering the surface of the muscle. Relations.—The tendon of the muscle is covered by that of the Biceps and by the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint ; it grooves the posterior border of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and is invested by the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. The fascia covering the muscle separates it from the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, popliteal vessels, and internal popUteal nerve. The deep siu'face of the muscle is in contact with the posterior Ugament of the knee-joint and the back of the tibia. The Flexor longus hallucis is situated on the fibular side of the leg. It arises from the lower two-tliirds of the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula, with the exception of an inch at its lowest part ; from the lower jiart of the interosseous membrane ; from an intermuscular septum between it and the Peronei, externally ; and from the fascia covering the Tibialis posticus internally. The fibres pass obliquely downwards and backwards, and terminate in a tendon which occupies nearly the whole length of the posterior surface of the muscle. This tendon lies in a groove which crosses the posterior surface of the lower end of the tibia, the posterior sm-face of the astragalus, and the under sirrface of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis ; in the sole of the foot it runs forwards between the two heads of the Flexor brevis hallucis, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. The grooves on the astragalus and os calcis, which contain the tendon of the muscle, are converted by tendinous fibres into distinct canals, lined by synovial membrane. As the tendon passes forwards in the sole of the foot, it is situated above, and crosses, from without inwards, the tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum, to which it is connected by a tendinous slip. Relations.—The Flexor longus hallucis is in relation by its superficial surface with the Soleus and tendo Achillis, from which it is separated by the deep tran-sverse fascia ; by its deep surface, with the fibula, Tibialis posticus, the peroneal vessels, the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and the ankle-joint; by its outer border, with the Peronei; by its inner border, with the Tibialis posticus and posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The Flexor longus digitorum is situated on the tibial side of the leg. At its origin it is thin and pointed, but it gradually increases in size as it descends. It arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia, from immediately below the oblique line to within three inches of its lower extremity, internal to the tibial origin of the Tibialis posticus ; it also arises from the fascia covering the TibiaUs posticus. The fibres terminate in a tendon, which runs nearly the whole length of the posterior surface of the muscle. This