1103 THE. TEETH afterwards subjected, eruption takes place, the tooth making its way through tlie gum. The gum is absorbed by the pressure of the crown of the tooth against it, which is itself pressed up by the increasing size of the fang. At the same time the septa between the dental sacs, at first fibrous in structure, ossify, and constitute the alveoli ; these firmly embrace the necks of the teeth, and afford them a solid basis of support. The eruption of the temporary teeth commences at the seventh month after birth, and is completed about the end of the second year, those of the lower jaw preceding those of the upper. The following, according to C. S. Tomes, are the most usual times of eruption : Lower central incisors 6 to 9 months. Upper incisors 8 to 10 months. Lower lateral incisors and fii'st molars . . 15 to 21 months. Canines 16 to 20 months. Second molars 20 to 24 months. Calcification of the permanent teeth proceeds in the following order in the lower jaw (in the upper jaw it takes place a little later) : the first molar, soon after birth ; the central and lateral incisors, and the canine, about six months after birth ; the bicuspids, at the second year, or a Mttle later ; the second molar, about the end of the second year ; the third molar, about the twelfth year. The eruption of the permanent teeth takes place at the following periods, the teeth of the lower jaw preceding those of the upper by a short interval : First molars 6th year. Two central incisors 7th year. Two lateral incisors 8th year. First bicuspids 9th year. Second bicusjDids 10th year. Canines 11th to 12th year. Second molars 12th to 13th year. ' Wisdom ' teeth 17th to 25th year. To\vards the sixth year, before the shedding of the temporary teeth begins, there are twenty-four teeth in each jaw, viz. the ten temporary teeth and the crowns of all the permanent teeth except the third molars. Applied Anatomy.—As a consequence of local irritation or of chronic digestive disturbances occurring during theii- eruption, both the temjjorary and the permanent teeth may show defective development or irregular transverse furrowing and erosions ; this is particularly the case with the incisors. Quite distinct from, and much less common than this, is a characteristic malformation of the two upper central permanent incisors seen in patients with inherited syphilis, and fu'st described by Hutchinson. Here there is a crescentic notch in the anterior surface and at the cutting edge of the tooth, which is peg-shaped, stunted, and often also set obUquely in the gum, pointing either inwards or outwards. Numerous forms of innocent iumour arising fi-om the teeth, or from their constituent layers, have been described under the general name of odontama. Injection of the pulp of a tooth by bacteria gaining access thereto in consequence of dental caries gives rise to the common and very painful alveolar abscess; starting in the apical space between the root of the tooth and its alveolar socket, the pus from such an abscess may make its way into the antrum, or burst through the hard palate or cheek. A more superficial abscess forming between the root of a tooth and the gum is kno\vn as a gum-boil. The Tongue The tongue is the principal organ of the sense of taste, and is an important organ of speech ; it also assists in the mastication and deglutition of tlie food. It is situated in the floor of the mouth, witliin the curve of the body of the mandible. Its base, or root (radix linguae), is directed backwards, and connected with the hyoid bone by the Hyo-glossi and Genio-hyo-glossi muscles and the liyo-glossal membrane ; with the epiglottis by three folds (glosso-epiglottic) of mucous membrane ; with the soft palate by means of the anterior pillars of the fauces ; and with the pharynx by the Superior constrictors and the