NERVOUS TISSUE 51 The Pacinian corpuscles^ (fig. 67) are found in the human subject lying chiefly in the subcutaneous tissue on the nei-ves of the palm of the hand and Fig. 66.—Nerve-euding of Ruflini. (After A. Ruffini, ' Ai-ch. ital. de Biol.,' Tuiin, t. xxi. 1894.) Neroe-Jihres \ Connective tissue sheath Fig. 67.—Pacinian corpuscle, with its system of capsules and central cavit}'. sole of the foot and in the genital organs of both sexes; but they have also been described as connected with the nerves of the joints, and in some other situations, as in the mesentery of the cat and along the tibia of the rabbit. Each of these corpuscles is attached to and encloses the termination of a single nerve-fibre. The corpuscle, which is perfectly visible to the naked eye (and which can be most easily demonstrated in the mesentery of a cat), consists of a number of lamellfe or capsules arranged more or less concentrically around a central clear space, in which the nerve-fibre is contained. Each lamella is composed of bundles of fine con- nective tissue fibres, and is Uned on its inner surface by a single layer of flattened epi- thelioid cells. The central clear space, which is elongated or cyUndrical in shape, is filled with a transparent material, in the middle of which is the single medullated fibre, which traverses the space to near its distal ex- tremity. Here it terminates in a rounded knob or end, sometimes bifurcating pre- viously, in which case each branch has a similar arrangement. Todd and Bowman have described minute arteries as entering by the sides of the nerves and forming capillary loops in the intercapsular spaces, and even penetrating into the central space. Other authors describe the artery as enter- ing the corpuscle at the pole opposite to the nerve-fibre. Herbst has described a nerve-ending somewhat similar to the Paciidan corpuscle, as being found in the mucous membrane of the tongue of the duck, and in some other situations. It differs, however, from the Pacinian corpuscle, in being smaller, its capsule thinner and more closely approxi- mated, and especially in the fact that the axis cylinder in the central clear space is coated with a continuous row of nuclei These bodies are known as the corpuscles of Herbst. :\j-teri(il twig, ending in ciipillariuH, wliiuli form loops in some of tlie inten:iiiisnlur spurts, iinil one penctrjitcii to tiie central oapsulo. h. Tlie llbrons tissue of tlio stnllj proloni,'Ctl from tlie ncnrilonnna. v. Nerve-tube lulvivncins to the central capsule, there iosin-^ its white matter, and stretching along tlio axis to the op|>osltc end, where it is fixed by a tubcrculatcd enlnrge- niont. * Often called in German anatomical works ' corpuscles of Vater.' E 2