MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF LOWER EXTREMITY 563 ulna is slightly elevated by the Brachialis aaticus. The fracture may be reduced by extension from the wist and elbow, and the forearm should be placed in the same position as in fracture of the ulna. In fracture of the lower end of the radius (fig. 540) the displacement produced is very considerable, and bears some resemblance to dislocation of the carpus backwards, from which it should be carefully distinguished. The lower fragment is displaced back- wards and upwards, but this displacement is due to the force of the blow driving the portion of the bone into this position, and not to any muscular influence. The upjier frag- ment projects forwards, often lacerating the substance of the Pronator quadratus, and is drawn by this muscle into close contact with the lower end of the ulna, causing a projection on the anterior surface of the forearm, immediately above the carpus, from the Flexor tendons being thrust forwards. This fracture may be distinguished from disloca- tion by the relative positions of the styloid processes of the radius and ulna, the former of which is displaced upwards in fracture, and by the deformity being removed on making sufficient extension, when crepitus may be occasionally detected. The age of the patient wiU assist in determining whether the injury is fracture or separation of the epiphysis. The treatment consists in flexing the forearm, and makhig powerful extension from the wrist and elbow, depressing at the same time the radial side of the hand, and retaining the parts in that position by well-padded pistol-shai)ed splints. MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The muscles of the lower extremity are subdivided into groups, correspond- ing with the different regions of the limb. I. Iliac Region Psoas magnus. Psoas parvus. Ilificus. II. Thigh 1. Anterior Femoral Region. Tensor fasciae femoris. Sartorius. [ Rectus femoris. Quadiiceps J Vastus externus. extensor j Vastus internus. iCrureus. Subcrureus. 2. Internal Femoral Region. Gracilis. Pectineus. Adductor longus. Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. 3. Gluteal Region. Gluteus maximus. Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus. Pyriformis. Obturator internus. Gemellus superior. Gemellus inferior. Quadratus femoris. Obturator externus. Hamstring muscles 4. Posterior Femoral Region. Biceps. Semitendinosus. Semimembr anos us. III. Leg 5. Anterior Tihio-fibular Region. Tibialis anticus. Extensor proprius haUucis. Extensor longus digitorum. Peroneus tertius. 6. Posterior Tihio-fibular Region Superficial Layer. Gastrocnemius. Soleus. Plantaris. Deep Layer. Popliteus. Flexor longus hallucis. Flexor longus digitorum. Tibialis posticus. 7. Fibular Region. Peroneus longus. Peroneus brevis. IV. Foot 8. Dorsal Region. Extensor brevis digitorum. 9. Plantar Region. First Layer. Abductor liallucis. Flexor brevis digitorum. Abductor minimi digiti. o o 2