BRACHIAL PLEXUS 959 Fig. 799.—Cutaneou.s nerves of right upper extremity. Posterior view. The anterior branch, the larger of the two, passes usually in front of, but occasionally behind, the median basilic vein. It then descends on tlio anterior surface of the ulnar side of the forearm, distributmg fUaments to the integument as far as the wrist, and communicating with the palmar cutaneous brancli of the uhiar nerve. The posterior branch passes obliquely downwards on the inner side of the basihc vein, in front of the internal epicondyle of the humerus, to the back of the forearm, and descends on the posterior surface of its ulnar side as far as the wrist, distributing filaments to the integument. It communicates with the lesser internal cutaneous, the lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral, and the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. The lesser internal cutaneous (n. cutaneus brachii medialis), or nerve of Wrisberg, is distributed to the integument on the inner side of the arm (fig. 801). It is the smallest of the ijranches of the brachial plexus, and arising from the inner cord receives its fibres from the first thoracic nerve, and sometimes from the eighth cervical. It passes through the axillary space, at fii'st lying behind, and then on the inner side of the axillary vein, and communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve (lateral cutaneous branch of the second thoracic). It descends along the inner side of the brachial artery to tlie middle of the arm, where it pierces the deep fascia, and is distributed to the integument of the back part of the lower third of the arm, extending as far as the elbow, where some filaments are lost ui the integument in front of the inner epicondyle, and others over the olecranon. It communi- cates with the posterior branch of tlie internal cutaneous nerve. In some cases the nerve of Wrisberg and intercosto-humeral are connected by two or tiu'ce filaments, which form a plexus at the back part of the axilla. In other cases, the intercosto-humeral is of large size, and takes the place of the nerve of Wrisberg, receiving merely a filament of communication from the brachial plexus, which represents the latter nerve; in a few cases, this filament is wanting. The median (n. medianus) (fig. 801) extends along the middle of the arm and forearm to the hand. It arises by two roots, one from the outer and one from the inner cord of the brachial plexus ; these embrace the lower part of the axiUary artery, uniting either in front or on the outer side of tliat vessel. Its fibres are derived from the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical and tirst tlioracic nerves. As it descends througli the arm, it lies at first on the outer side of the brachial artery, crosses that vessel in the middle of its course, usually m fi-ont of, but occasionally behind it, and Ues on its inner side