1005 THE NOSE ct limoidal cells open. The anterior extremity of tlie meatus is continued into a depressed area, lying above the vestibule and named the atrium meatus medn The nasal duct opens into the anterior part of the mterior meatus, the openinc^ being overlapped sometimes by a fold of mucous membrane. Inner ivall (fig. 825).—The inner wall or septum is frequently more or less deflected from the mesial plane, thus lessening the size of one fossa and mcreasmg t hat of the other. Ridges or spurs of bone growing outwards from the septum are also sometimes present. Immediately over the incisive foramen at the lower ccX^e of the cartilage of the septum a depression, the naso-palatine recess, may be°seen. In the septum close to this recess a minute orifice may be discerned : it leads backwards into a blind pouch, the rudimentary organ of Jacobson (orf^anon vomeronasal), which is supported by a strij) of cartilage, the cartilage of Jacobson (cartilago vomeronasalis). This organ is well-developed in many of the lower animals, where it apparently plays a part in the sense of smell. Fio. 827. -Outer wall of nasal fossa ; the turbinated processes of the ethmoid and the inferior turbinated bone have been removed. Ilrislle in infimdibulum Cut edge of middle turbinated process Hiatus semilunaris llulla ellimoidalis Oppuinfj of middle ethmoidnl O'lls Cut edge of superior turbinated process Dlien ings of jiotierior ethmoidal cells /Irtslle in openinij of sphenoidal sinus Bristle in nasal duel /Irtslle in openiuy of anlruin Cut edge of inferior turbinated bone Orifice of „„„„ „, '^"tir "ller since it is supplied by twigs of the olfactory nerve and lined by epithelium similar to that which lines the olfactory region of the nose. The mucous membrane lining the nasal fossse is sometimes called the Schneiderian membra7ie, from Schneider,* who first showed that the nasal secretion proceeded from the mucous membrane, and not, as was formerly imagined, from the brain. It is intimately adherent to the periosteum or perichondrium over which it lies. It is continuous with the skin through the anterior nares, and with the mucous membrane of the naso-pharynx through the posterior nares. From the nasal fossa3 its continuity witii the conjunctiva may be traced, through the nasal duct and lachrymal canals ; and with the frontal, ethmoidal, and .sphenoidal sinuses, and the antrum of Highmore, through the several openings in the meatuses. The mucous membrane is thickest, and most vascular, over the turbinated bones and processes. It is * Conrad Victor Schneider, 1614-1680, Professor of Anatomy at Wittemberg.