1238 SPLANCHNOLOGY ^ than 1 per cent, of over a thousand persons (Pepere *), but more than four in over 33 per cent, of 122 bodies examined by Civalleri. In addition, numerous minute islands of paratliyi'oid tissue may be found scattered in the connective tissue and fat of the neck round the parathyroid glands proper, and quite distinct from them. structure.—Microscopically the parathyroids show great variety in structure. Masses of gland cells, gland cells in networks, columns, or alveoli, and in follicles containing a colloid secretion, all occur normally. In addition, the amount and disposition of the fat, blood-vessels, and fibrous tissue all vary widely, not only in different parathyroids, but even in different parts of the same parathyroid gland. Applied Anatomy.—No doubt the parathyroid glands produce an internal secretion essential to the well-being of the human economy ; but it is still a matter of disimte what symptoms of disease are produced by then- removal and suppression of their secretion. Pepere believes that they show signs of exceptional activity during pregnancy, and that parathyi-oid insufficiency is a main factor in the production of tetany in infants and adults, of eclampsia, and of certain sorts of fits. The Thymus Gland (fig. 1023) The thymus gland is a temporary organ, attaining its full size at the end of the second year, when it ceases to grow, and gradually dwindles, imtil at puberty it has almost disajapeared. If examined when its growth is most active, it wiU be found to consist of two lateral lobes placed in close contact along the middle Hne, situated partly in the thorax, partly in the neck, and extending from the fourth costal cartilage upw^ards, as high as the lower border of the thyroid gland. It is covered by the sternum, and by the origins of the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. Below, it rests upon the Fig. 1023.—The thymus gland of a full-time foetus, exposed in situ. Trachea Thyroid veins Right vagus Superior vena, cava Thyroid body Left common carotid artery Left infrrnat Jugular vein Left subcjanun vessels pericardium, being separated from the arch of the aorta and great vessels by a layer of fascia. In the neck it lies on the front and sides of the trachea, behind the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. The two lobes generally differ in size ; they are occasionally united, so as to form a single mass ; and sometimes separated by an intermediate lobe. The thymus is of a pinkish- grey colour, soft, and lobulated on its surfaces. It is about two inches in length, one and a half in breadth below, and about three or four lines in thickness. At birth it weighs about half an ounce. Structure.—Each lateral lobe is composed of numerous lobules held together by delicate areolar tissue ; the entire gland being enclosed in an investing cnjisule of a similar but denser structure. The primary lobules vary in size from that of a ])in's head to that of a small pea. and are made up of a nunii)er of small nodules or follicles, which arc u-regular in shape and are more or less fused logcther, especially towards the interior of the gland. Each follicle consists of a medullary and a cortical portion, and these differ in many essential * Consult Lr OhUwdnleparaiiroidec, by A. Pepere, Turin, inOG.