494 MYOLOGY ilio-lumbar ligament and iliac crest ; vvliile above it is thickened to form tiie external arcuate ligament of the Diaphragm, and stretches from the tip of the last rib to the transverse process of the first or second lumbar vertebra. These three lawyers, togetlier with the vertebral column, enclose two spaces, the posterior of wiiich is occupied by the Erector spinse muscle, and the anterior by the Quadratus lumborum. The Splenius is a broad sheet situated at the back of the neck and upper part of the thoracic region. At its origin, it is a single muscle, which arises, by tendinous fibres, from the lower half of the ligamentum nucliaj, fro.m the spinous processes of the last cervical and upper six tlioracie vertebrae, and from the supraspinous ligament. From this origin the fleshy fibres proceed obliquely upwards and outwards, forming a broad flat muscle, which divides as it ascends, into two portions, the Splenius capitis and Splenius colli. The Splenius capitis (m. splenius capitis) is inserted, under cover of tlie Sterno-mastoid, into the mastoid process of the Temporal bone, and into the rough surface on the occipital bone just below the outer third of the superior curved line. The Splenius colli (m. splenius cervicis) is inserted, by tendinous fasciculi, into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper two or three cervical vertebrae. Nerves.—The Splenius is supplied by the external branches of the posterior primary divisions of the middle and lower cervical ner%'es ; the Serratus posticus superior is suppUed by branches from the upper three or four intercostal nerves ; Fig. 498.—Diagram of a transverse section of the posterior abdominal wall, to show the three layers of the lumbar aponeurosis. V Posterior laijer the Serratus posticus inferior by branches from the ninth, teath, and eleventh intercostal nerves. Actions.—The Serrati are respiratory muscles. The Serratus posticus superior elevates the ribs and is therefore an inspiratory muscle. The Serratus posticus inferior draws the lower ribs downwards and backwards, and thus elongates the thorax ; it also fixes the lower ribs, thus assisting the inspiratory action of the Diaphragm and resisting the tendency which it has to draw the lower ribs upwards and forwards. It must therefore be regarded as a muscle of inspiration. This muscle is also probably a tensor of the vertebral fascia. The Splenii of the two sides, acting together, draw the head directly backwards, assisting the Trapezius and Gomplexus ; acting separately, they draw the head to one side, and sUghtly rotate it, turning the face to the same side. They also assist in supporting the head in the erect position. a. Outer Column. Ilio-costalis. Musculus accessorius. Cervicalia ascendons. FoTTBTH Layer 1. Erector spinse, b. Middle Column. Longissimus dorsi. Trans vcrsalis cervicis. Trachelo-mastoid. c. Inner Column. Spinalis dorsi. 2. Gomplexus.