1208 SPLANCHNOLOGY nuclei, arranged in two or tlu-ee layers ; these are the inlermediale cells or spermaloajies. Most of these cells are in a condition of karyokinetio division, and the cells which result Fig. 1002.—Transverse section of a seminiferous tubule. from this division form those of the next layer, the spermatoblasts or spermatids. 3. The third layer of cells consists of the spermatoblasts or spermatids, and each of these, without further subdivision, becomes a spermatozoon. They are ill-defined granular masses of protoplasm, of an elongated form, with a Fig. 1003.—Vertical section of the testicle, nucleus, which becomes the head of the to show the arrangement of the ducts. spermatozoon. In addition to these three layers or cells others are seen, which are termed the supporting cells, or cells of Sertoli. They are elongated and columnar, and pro- ject inwards from the basement-membrane towards the lumen of the tube. They give oil numerous lateral branches, wliich form a reticulum for the support of the three grouj)s of cells just described. As development of the spermatozoa proceeds the latter group themselves around the inner extremities of the suf)porting cells. The nuclear portion of the spermatozoon, which is partly imbedded in the supporting cell, is differentiated to form the head of the spermatozoon, while the cell protoplasm becomes lengthened out to form the middle piece and tail, the latter projecting into the lumen of the tube. Ultimately the heads are liberated and the spermatozoa are set free. The structm-e of the spermatozoa is described on page 81. In the apices of the loliules, the tubuli become less convoluted, assume a nearlj' straight course, and imite together to form from twenty to thirty larger ducts, of about of an inch in diameter, and these, from their straight course, arc called wsn rec/rt (fig. 1003). The vasa recta (tubuli recti) enter the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum, and pass upwards and backwards, forming, in their ascent, a close network of anastomosing tubes wliich are merely channels in the fibrous stroma, lined by fiattened epithelium, and having no proper walls ; this constitutes the rete testis. At the upper end of the mediastinum.