THE MID-BRAIN 839 this sulcus, and pass backwards and upwards, to disappear under the loAver quadi'igeminal body. Structure of the crura cerebri (figs. 713,714-).—On transverse section, each crus is seen to consist of a dorsal and a ventral part, separated by a Fig. 712.—Vertical transverse section through deeply pigmented lamina of grey mid-brain. (Schematic.) (Testut.) matter, termed the substantia nigra. The dorsal part is named the tegmentum; the ventral, the crusta or pes; the two crustse are separated from each other, but the tegmenta are joined in the mesial plane by a forward pro- longation of the raphe of the pons Varolii. Laterally, the tegmenta are free, and are constituted by the fibres of the lateral fiUet; dorsaUy, they blend with the corpora quadrigemina. The crusta, or pes (basis pedmiculi) is semilunar on trans- verse section, and consists almost entnely of longitudinal bundles of efferent fibres, which arise from the cells of the cerebral cortex and are grouped into three prmcipal sets, viz. pyi-amidal, geniculate, and cortico-pontine (fig. 712). The pyramidal fibres occupy the middle three-fifths of the crusta, and are continued do-miwards through the pons into the pyramid of the medulla. The geniculate fibres—so named be- cause they are situated in the knee-shaped bend of the internal capsule—occupy the inner fifth of the crusta, and terminate, after decussatmg with the corresponding fibres of the Fig. 713.—Transverse section of mid-brain at level of inferior quadrigeminal bodies. Inferior quadrigeminal bodies Aqueduct of Sylvius Nucleus of third nerve Lateral fillet Posterior longitudinal fasciculus Mesial fillet 1. Corpora quadrigemina. 2. Aqueduct of Sylvius. 3. Central grey matter of aqueduct. 4. Interpeduncular space. 5. Sulcus lateralis. 6. Substantia nigra. 7. Red nucleus of tegmentum. 8. Third nerve, with 8', its nucleus of origin. a. Fillet (in blue), with a', the mesial or sensory fillet, and a', the lateral or auditory fillet, b. Posterior longitudinal fasciculus, c. Raphe, d. Posterior cortico-protuberantial tract, e. Portion of mesial fillet which passes to the lenticular nucleus and island of Reil. /. Pyramidal tract (in red). g. Geniculate bundle (in green). Baplie Other aide, in the motor nuclei of the cranial nerves. The cortico-pontine fibres termmate below m the nuclei pontis, and consist of anterior and posterior