I MYOLOGY* THE Muscles are connected with, the bones, cartilages, ligaments, and skin, either directly or tlu-ough the intervention of fibrous structures, called tendons or aponeuroses. Wliere a muscle is attached to bone or cartilage, the fibres terminate in blunt extremities upon the periosteum or peri'chondrium, and do not come into direct relation with the osseous or cartilagmous tissue. Where muscles are connected with the skin, they lie as a flattened layer beneath it, and are connected with its areolar tissue by larger or smaller bundles of fibres, as in the muscles of the face. The muscles vary extremely m thek form. In the limbs, they are of considerable length, especially the more superficial ones ; they surround the bones, and constitute an important protection to the various joints. In tlie trunk, they are broad, fiattened, and expanded, forming the parietes of the cavities which they enclose. Hence the reason of the terms, long, broad, short, &c., used in the description of a muscle. There is considerable variation in the arrangement of the fibres of certam muscles with reference to the tendons to which they are attached. In some muscles the fibres are parallel and run directly from their origin to their insertion; these are quadrilateral muscles, such as the Thyro-hyoid. A modification of these is found in the fusiform muscles, in which the fibres are not quite parallel, but slightly curved, so that the muscle tapers at either end; in their actions, however, they resemble the quadrilateral muscles. Secondly, in other muscles the fibres are convergent; arising by a broad origin, they converge to a narrow or pointed insertion. This arrangement of fibres is found in the triangular muscles—e.g. the Temporal. In some muscles, wliich otherwise would belong to the quadrilateral or triangular type, the origin and insertion are not in the same plane, but the plane of the line of origin intersects that of the line of insertion : such is the case in the Pectineus muscle. Thirdly, in some muscles the fibres are oblique and converge, like the plumes of a quUl pen, to one side of a tendon which runs the entire length of the muscle. Such muscles are rhomboidal or penniform, as the Peronei. A modification of these rhomboidal muscles is found in those cases where obUque fibres converge to both sides of a central tendon which runs down the middle of the muscle ; these are called bipenniform, and an example is afforded in the Rectus femoris. Finally, we have muscles in which the fibres are arranged in curved bvmdles in one or more planes, as in the Spliincter muscles. The arrangement of the fibres is of considerable importance in respect to the relative strength and range of movement of the muscle. Those muscles where the fibres are long and few in number have great range, but diminished strength ; where, on the other hand, the fibres are short and more numerous, there is great power, but lessened range. The names appUed to the various muscles have been derived : 1, from their situation, as the TibiaUs, Eadiahs, Ulnaris, Peroneus; 2, from their direction, as the Rectus abdominis, Obhqui capitis, Transversahs ; 3, from their uses, as Flexors, * The Muscles and Fasciai are described conjointly, in order that the student may consider ihe arrangement of the latter in his dissection of the former. It is rare for the student of anatomy in this counti-y to have the opportunity of dissecting the fasciffi separately; and it is for this reason, as well as from the close connection tliat exists between the muscles and their investing sheaths, that they arc considered together. Some general observations are first made on the anatomy of the muscles and fasci:e, the special descriptions being given in connection with the different regions.