1216 SPLANCHNOLOGY ■with the bladder w all: the urethra penetrates it nearer its anterior than its posterior border. The a/pex (apex i^rostatse) is directed downwards, and is in contact with the deep layer of the triangular ligament. The posterior surface (facies posterior) is flattened from side to side and convex from above downwards ; it rests on the rectum, and is distant about an inch and a half from the anus. Near its upper border there is a depression through wliich the two common ejaculatory ducts enter the prostate. This depression serves to divide the posterior surface into a lower larger and an upper smaller part. The upper smaller part constitutes the middle lobe of the prostate and intervenes between the ejaculatory ducts and the urethra ; it varies greatly in size, and in some cases is destitute of glandular tissue. The lower larger portion sometimes presents a shallow median furrow, wliich imperfectly separates it into a right and a left lateral lobe : these form the main mass of the gland and are directly continuous with each other beliind the urethra. Fig. 1009.—Transverse section of normal prostate through the middle of the verumontanum, fi'om a subject aged nineteen years. (Taylor.) a longitudinal section of ducts leading from the lobules of the prostatic glands ; 6, verumontanum; e, sums pocularis ; d, uretlira ; e, ejaculatory ducts ; f, arteries, veins, and venous sinuses in sheath of prostate; g, nerve trunks in sheath ; h, point of origin of fibro-muscular bands encircling urethra; i, zone of striated voluntary muscle on superior surface. In front of the urethra they are connected by a band wliich is named the anterior commissure : this consists of the same tissues as the capsule and is devoid of glandular substance. The anterior surface (facies anterior) measures about an inch from above downwards, but is narrow and convex from side to side. It is placed about three-quarters of an incli behind the pubic symphysis, from which it is separated by a plexus of veins and a quantity of loose fat. It is connected to the pubic bone on either side by the pubo-prostatic ligaments. The urethra emerges from this surface a little above and in front of the apex of the gland. Tlie lateral surfaces (facies laterales) are prominent, and are covered by the anterior portions of the Lcvatores ani muscles, which are, however, separated from the gland by a plexus of veins. The prostate measures about an inch and a half transversely at the base, three-quarters of an inch in its antero-posterior diameter, and an inch and a quarter in its vertical diameter. Its weight is about four and a half drachms. It is held in its position by the anterior ligaments of tlie bladder (pubo-