SPLANCHNOLOGY 1190 of the eleventh thoracic vertebra, and the lower edge of the spinous process of the third lumbar vertebra. 2. A line from the top of this first lino outwards at right angles to it for two and three-quarter inches. 3. A line from the lower end of the fi"rst transversely outwards for two and three-quarter inches. 4. A line parallel to the first and connecting the outer extremities of the second and third lines just described. The hilus of the kidney lies about two inches from the middle line of the back at the level of the spinous process of the fii-st lumbar vertebra. Applied Anatomy.—Malforjnations of the kidney are not uncommon. Tiiere may be an entire absence of one kidney, but, according to Morris, the number of these cases is ' excessively small' : or there may bo congenital atrophy of one kidney, when the kidney is very small, but usually healthy in structure. These cases are of great importance, and must bo duly taken into account when nephrectomy is contemplated. A more common malformation is where the two kidneys are fused together. Tliey may be joined together only at their lower ends by means of a thick mass of renal tissue, so as to form a horse-shoe-shaped body, or tliey may be completely united, forming a disc-like kidney, from which two m-eters descend into the bladder. These fused kidneys are generally situated in the middle line of the abdomen, but may be misplaced as well. In some mammals (e.g. ox and bear) the kidney consists of a number of distinct lobules ; this lobulated condition is characteristic of the kidney of the human foetus, and traces of it may persist in the adult. Sometimes the pehds is duplicated, while a double ureter is not ver}' uncommon. In some rare instances a third kidney may be present. One or both kidneys may be misplaced as a congenital condition, and remain fixed in this abnormal position. They are then very often misshapen. They may be situated higher, though this is very uncommon, or lower than normal or removed farther from the vertebral column than usual; or they may be displaced into the ihac fossa, over the sacro-diac joint, on to the promontory of the sacrum, or into the pelvis between the rectum and bladder or by the side of the uterus. In these latter cases they maj' give rise to very serious trouble. The kidney may also be misplaced as a congenital condition, but may not be fixed; it is then known as a floating kidney. It is believed to be due to the fact that the kidney is completely enveloped by j)eritoneum which then passes backwards to the vertebral column as a double layer, forming a mesonephron which permits of movement taking place. The kidney may also be misplaced as an acquired condition ; in these cases the kidney is mobile in the tissues by which it is surrounded, moving vfith the capsule in the perinephric tissues. This condition is known as movable kidney, and is more common in the female than in the male. It occurs in badly nom-ished people, or in those who have become emaciated from any cause. It must not be confounded with the floating kidney, which is a congenital condition due to the development of a mesonephron. The two conditions cannot, however, be distinguished until the abdomen is opened or the kidney explored from the loin. Injuries of the kidney are generally due to some severe crushing force, as from being run over by a heavy waggon or cart, or from the abdomen being compressed between the buffers of two railway carriages. When a laceration occurs on the posterior surface of the organ, infiltration of blood and m-ine takes place into the retro-peritoneal coimective tissue ; this is often followed by suppuration, and death may ensue from septic poisoning. When the laceration is in front, the peritoneum may be torn and extravasation of blood and urine take place into the peritoneal cavity. Death may occur from hsemorrhage or peritonitis. Occasionally, when rupture involves the pelvis of the kidney or the com- mencement of the ureter, this duct may become blocked, and hydronephrosis follow. Sometimes the kidney may be bruised by blows in the loin, or by being compressed between the lower ribs and the ilium when the body is violently bent forwards. This is followed by a little transient haimaturia, which, however, speedily passes off. The loose cellular tissue around the kidney may be the seat of suppuration, constituting perinephric abscess. This may be due to injury, to disease of the kidney itself, or to extension of inflammation from neighboui-ing parts. The abscess tends to point externally in the groin or loin. Timiours of the kidney, of which perhaps sarcoma, in children, is the most common, may be recognised by their position ; by the resonant colon lying in front of them; and by their rounded outline not presenting a notched anterior margin like the spleen, with which they are most likely to be confounded. The hypernephroma, a benign or malignant tumour arising from the suprarenal gland, or from suprarenal ' rests ' or inclusions in the cortex or medulla of the kidney, is not infrequent. When occurring in cluldren it is often associated with ])recocious growth of the body generally and of the hair and sexual organs in particular. Arising, as it often does, in the kidney, a hyi)ernephroma may be indistinguishable from a true renal tumour so far as the physical signs and symptoms go ; it is really, however, a tiunour of the suprarenal gland substance. ITie examination of the kidnev should be bimanual; that is to say, one hand should be placed in the flank and lirm ]iressure made forwards ; while the other hand is buried in the abdominal wall, over the situation of the organ. Manipulation of the kidney frequently produces a peculiar sickening sensation, with sometimes faintness.