217 OCCIPITAL BONE is the pharyngeal tubercle (tuberculum pliaryngeum) whicla gives attachment to the fibrous raphe of the pliarynx. On either side of the middle line the Recti capitis antici major and minor are inserted, and immediately in front of the foramen magnum the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament is attached. The tipper surface presents a broad, shallow groove which inclines upwards and forwards from the foramen magnum ; it supports the medulla oblongata, and near the margin of the foramen magnum gives attachment to the membrana tectoria or occipito-axial ligament. On the lateral margins of this surface are faint grooves for the inferior petrosal sinuses. The foramen magnum is a large oval aperture with its long diameter antero-posterior; it is wider behind than in front where it is encroached upon by tlie condyles. It transmits the medulla oblongata and its mem- branes, the spinal accessory nerves, the vertebral arteries, the anterior and posterior spinal arteries, and the occipito-axial ligaments. The siiperior angle of the occipital bone articulates with the postero-superior angles of the two parietal bones and, in the foetal skull, corresponds in position with the posterior fontanelle. The inferior angle is represented by the sawn surface of the basilar process, already referred to. The lateral angles are situated at the outer extremities of the transverse grooves : each is received into the interval between the postero-mferior angle of the Fiq. 287.—Ossification of occipital bone, parietal and the mastoid Usnallv l)v s.-ven centres, portion of the temporal. sisrf^ ' The superiar borders extend ^ 1 f for interparietal from the superior to the lateral \ ' ^ jiart of squama angles: they are deeply serrated ^fe^' 1 - for articulation with the pos- - terior borders of the parietal, "'^^F «M cartilagi- and form by this union the ^wA'/i lambdoid suture. The inferior ^^.^^^^ ^^ffeL#,l^^ squama /^orrfers extend from the lateral the 4 pieces 0^ ^aS£\ ^ for each condylic angles to the inferior angle ; separate K^tT f)~ portion the upper half of each articu- '^St^k Jj0 lates with the mastoid portion ^--^^^ 2 r rh ilar lortion of the corresponding temporal, ' the lower half with the petrous part of the same bone. These two portions of the inferior border are separated from one another by the jugular process, the notch on the anterior surface of which forms the posterior part of the jugular foramen. Structure.—The occipital, Hke the other cranial bones, consists of two compact lamellae, called the outer and inner tables, between which is the cancellous tissue or diploc; the bone is especially thick at the ridges, protuberances, condyles, and anterior part of the basilar process ; in the inferior fosste it is thin, semi- transparent, and destitute of diploc. ^cf^N'/t^ oeeiptT^Lir Ossification (fig. 287).—The upper portioii^of the squama occipitahs, viz. that above the linea suprema, is developed in membrane, and may remain separate throughout hfe when it constitutes the interparietal bone ; the rest of the bone is developed in cartilage. The number of nuclei for the intei'parietal part of the squama is four, two appearing near the middle line about the second month, and two some httle distance from the middle Hue about the third month of foetal life. The cartilaginous portion of the squama is ossified from two centres, which appear about the seventh week of foetal life and soon unite to form a single piece. Union of the upper and lower portions of the squama takes place about the third or fourth month after birth. Each of the condylic parts begins to ossify from a smglc centre about the end of the eighth week of foetal life. The basilar portion IS ossified from two centres, one in front of the other ; these appear about the sixth week of foetal life and rapidly coalesce, so that this part is frequently described as ossifjang from one centre. About the fourth year the tabular and the two condyhc portions unite, and about the sixth year the bone consists of a single piece. Between the eighteenth and twenty-fifth years the occipital and sphenoid become united, forming a single bone. Articulations.—The occipital articulates with six bones : the two parietals, the two temporals, the sphenoid, and the atlas.