939 ELEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE foramen, it runs backwcards, either in front of or behind the mternal jugular vein and descends obUquely behind the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles to the upper part of the Sterno-mastoid. It pierces this muscle, and passes obliquely across the posterior triangle, to terminate in the deep surface of the Trapezius. During its passage tlu-ough the Sterno-mastoid it gives several branches to the muscle, and joins in its substance with branches from the second cervical. In the posterior triangle it joms wth the second and thii'd cervical nerves, while beneath the Trapezius it forms a plexus with the third and fourth cervical nerves, and from this plexus fibres are distributed to the muscle. Applied Anatomy—The functions of the spinal accessory nerve may be interfered with either by central changes ; or at its exit from the skull, by fractures running across the jugular foramen ; or in the neck, by inflamed lymphatic glands, &c. The acute wry neck in children is most commonly due to inflamed or suppurating glands, and rapidly subsides with appropriate treatment. Central hritation causes clonic spasm of the Sterno- mastoid and Trapezius muscles, or, as it is termed, spasmodic torticollis. In cases of this affection in which all previous palUative treatment has failed, and the spasms are so severe as to undermine the patient's health, division or excision of a portion of the spinal accessory nerve has been resorted to. This must be done from the anterior border of the Sterno- mastoid muscle. The operation consists in making an incision, three niches in length, from the apex of the mastoid process along the anterior border of the muscle, which is defined and pulled backwards, so as to stretch the nerve, which is then to be sought for beneath the Digastric muscle, about two inches below the apex of the mastoid process. Unfortu- nately, the operation does not yield a satisfactory or permanent cure, as the spasms tend to recur after an interval, either in the same muscles or in other groups of neck muscles. In cases where extensive dissections are undertaken for enlarged glands in the posterior triangle of the neck, it is essential that this nerve should be at once sought for and isolated from the mass of inflamed glands so as to maintain its continuity, as otherwise it would be very Uable to be divided, with resulting paralysis of the Trapezius. Twelfth Nerve (figs. 785, 787, 788) The Twelfth or Hypoglossal nerve (n. hypoglossus) is the motor nerve of the tongue. Its fibres arise from the cells of the hypoglossal nucleus, which is an upward prolongation of the base of the anterior horn of grey matter of the cord. This nucleus is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and its upper part corre- sponds with the trigonum hypoglossi, which is situated close to the middle line in the lower half of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The lower part of the nucleus extends downwards into the closed part of the medulla, and there Ues in relation to the ventro-lateral aspect of the central canal. The fibres run forwards through the entire thickness of the medulla, between its anterior and lateral areas, and emerge in the pre-olivary sulcus between the pyramid and the olivary body. The filaments of this nerve are collected into two bundles, which perforate the dura mater separately, opposite the anterior condyloid foramen, and unite together after their passage through it. In those cases in which the anterior condyloid foramen in the occipital bone is double, these two portions of the nerve are separated by the small piece of bone which divides the foramen. The nerve descends almost vertically to a point corresponding with the angle of the jaw. It is at first deeply seated beneath the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, and intimately connected with the pneumogastric nerve ; it then passes forwards between the vein and artery, and lower down in the neck becomes superficial below the Digastric muscle. The nerve then loops round the occipital artery, and crosses tlie external carotid and lingual below the tendon of the Digastric. It passes beneath the tendon of the Digastric, the Stylo-hyoid, and the Mylo-hyoid muscles, lying between the last-named muscle and the Hyo-glossus, and communicates at the anterior border of the Hyo-glossus with the lingual nerve ; it is then continued forwards in the fibres of the Genio-hyo-glossus muscle as far as the tip of the tongue, distributing branches to its muscular substance. Branches of communication.—^The branches of communication are, with the Pneumogastric. First and second cervical nerves. Sympathetic. Lingual.