490 MYOLOGY acromion process, and is continued downwards over the Deltoid muscle to the arm ; on the thorax it is continuous with the deep fascia of the axilla and chest, and on the abdomon with that covering the abdominal muscles ; below, it is attached to the crest of the ilium. The Trapezius (fig. 497) is a broad, flat, triangular muscle, placed imme- diately beneath the skin and fascia, and covermg the upper and back part of the neck and shoulders. It arises from the external occipital protuberance a,nd the inner third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, from the ligamentum nuchse, the si^inous process of the seventh cervical, and the spinous processes of all the thoracic vertebrte, and from the corresponding portion of the supraspinous ligament. From this origin, the superior fibres proceed downwards and outwards, the inferior upwards and out^\-ards, and the middle horizontally ; the superior fibres are inserted into the posterior border of the outer third of the clavicle ; the middle fibres into the inner margm of the acromion process, and into the superior lip of the posterior border or crest of the spine of the scapula ; the inferior fibres converge near the scapula, and terminate in an aponeurosis, which glides over the smooth triangular surface on the inner extremity of the crest of the spine, to be inserted into a tubercle at the apex of this smooth triangular surface. The Trapezius is fleshy in the greater part of its extent, but tendinous at its origin and inser- tion. At its occipital origin, it is connected to the bone by a thin fibrous lamina, firmly adherent to the skin, and wanting the lustrous, shining appear- ance of aponeurosis. At the middle of its origin from the spines of the vertebrse, it is connected to the bones by means of a broad semi-elliptical aponeurosis ; this occupies the space between the sixth cervical and the third thoracic vertebrse, and forms, with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle, a tendinous ellipse. The rest of the muscle arises by numerous short tendinous fibres. The two Trapezius muscles together resemble a trapezium, or diamond- shaped quadrangle : two angles corresponding to the shoulders; a third to the occipital protuberance ; and the fourth to the spinous process of the last thoracic vertebra. The clavicular insertion of this muscle varies in extent : it sometimes advances as far as the middle of the clavicle, and may occasionall}' become blended with the posterior edge of the Sterno-mastoid, or overlap it. The Latissimus dorsi (fig. 497) is a broad, flat muscle, which covers the lumbar and the lower half of the thoracic regions, and is gradually contracted into a narrow fasciculus at its insertion into the humerus. It arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the six inferior thoracic vertebrae and from the posterior layer of the lumbar fascia (see page 493), hj which it is attached to the spines of the lumbar and sacral vertebrse, to the supraspinous ligament, and to the posterior part of the crest of the ilium. It also arises by muscular fibres from the external lip of the crest of the ilium external to the margin of the Erector spinse, and from the three or four loAver ribs by fleshy digitations, which are interposed between similar processes of the External oblique muscle (fig. 502, page 507). From this extensive origiir the fibres pass in different directions, the upper ones horizontally, the middle obliquely upwards, and the lower vertically upwards, so as to converge and form a thick fasciculus, which crosses the inferior angle of the scapula, and usually receives a few fibres from it. The muscle curves around the lower border of the Teres major, and is tAvisted upon itself, so that the superior fibres become at first posterior and then inferior, and the vertical fibres at first anterior and then superior. It terminates in a short quadrilateral tendon, about three inches in length, which passes m front of the tendon of the Teres major, and is inserted into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus ; its insertion extending higher on tlie humerus than that of the tendon of the Pectoralis major. The lower border of the tendon of this muscle is united with that of the Teres major, the surfaces of the two being separated near their insertions by a bursa ; another bursa is sometimes interposed between the muscle and the inferior angle of the scapula. The muscle at its insertion gives off an expansion to the deep fascia of the arm. A muscular slip, the a.rillari/ arch, varying from 3 to 4 inches iu length, and from J to J of an inch in Ijreadtli, occasionally arises from the upper edge of the Latissimus