MYOLOGY 518 beneath the obturator vessels and nerve, completing the obturator canal, and at the front of the pelvis is attached to the back of the body of the pubis. Below, the obturator fascia is attached to the falciform process of the great sacro-sciatic ligament and to the pubic arch where it becomes continuous witii the deep layer of the fascial sheath of the Compressor urethra? (deep layer of the triangular ligament). Behind, it is prolonged out on the Obturator internus into the gluteal region. The pudic vessels and nerve cross the pelvic surface of the Obturator internus and are enclosed in a special canal—Alcock's canal—formed by the obturator fascia. The fascia of the, Pyriformis is very thin and is attached to the front of the sacrum and the sides of the great sacro-sciatic foramen; it is prolonged out on the muscle into the gluteal region. At its sacral attachment round the margins of the anterior sacral foramina it comes into intimate association with and ensheathes the nerves emerging from these foramina. Hence the sacral nerves are frequently described as lying behind the fascia. The internal iliac vessels and their branches, on the other hand, lie in the subperitoneal Fig. 511.—Coronal section of pelvis, showing arrangement of fasciae from behind. Anterior crural nerve Femoral vessels Obturator fascia- Fascia endopelvina Internal pudic vessels \-^^ml^^ and nerve r'>-~-i.wlr^fK Tuherosity of ischium tissue in front of the fascia, and the branches to the gluteal region emerge in special sheaths of this tissue, above and below the Pja-iformis muscle. The fascia of the pelvic diaphragm covers both surfaces of the muscles. The layer covering the lower surface (fascia inferior diaphragmatis pe vis) is known as the anal fascia. It is attached above to the obturator fascia along the line of origin of the Levator ani, while he\o^^■ it is continuous with the deep layer of the triangular ligament and with the fascia on the Internal sphincter ani. The layer covering the upper surface of the pehnc diaphragm (pars diaphragmatica fasciee pehds) follows, above, the Une of ongni of the Levator ani and is therefore somewhat variable. In front it is attached to the back of the symphysis pubis about three-quarters of an inch above its lower bordex It can then be traced outwards across the back of the body of the pubis for a cUstance of about half an inch, when it reaches the obturalor fascia. It is attached to this fascia along a line wliich pursues a somewhat to the spine of the ischium. The irregularity of this line is due to the act that tlie origin of the Levator ani, which in lower fornis is from P^^f^^; brim, is in man lower down, on tlie obturator fascia. Tendinous fibres of origin