833 THE CEREBELLUM sources : (a) the dendrites and axon-ooUaterals of Purkinje's cells ; (6) fibres from cells in the granular layer ; (c) fibres from the central M'hite substance of the cerebellum ; {d) fibres derived from cells in the molecular layer itself. In addition to these are other fibres, which have a vertical direction. These are the processes of large neuroglia-cells, situated in the granular layer. They pass outwards to the periphery of the grey matter, where they expand into little conical enlargements which form a sort of limiting membrane beneath the pia mater, analogous to the membrana limitans interna m the retina, formed by the fibres of MiiUer. The cells of the molecular layer are small, and are arranged in two strata, an outer and an inner. They all possess branched axis-cylinder processes ; those of the inner layer run for some distance horizontally—i.e. parallel with the surface of the folium—giving off collaterals, which pass in a vertical direction towards the ceU-bodies of Purkinje's corpuscles, around which they become enlarged, and form a basket-like network. Hence these cells of the inner layer are named basket-cells. The cells of Purkinje form a single stratum of large, flask-shaped cells situated at the junction of the molecular and granular layers, their bases resting against the latter ; in fishes and reptiles they are arranged in several layers. The cells are fiattened in a direction transvei'se to the long axis of the folium, and thus appear broad in sections carried across the folium, and fusiform in sections parallel to the long axis of the folium. From the neck of the fiask one or more dendrites arise and pass into the molecular layer, where they sub- divide and form an extremely rich arborescence, the various subdivisions of the dendrites being covered by lateral spine-like processes. This arborescence is not circular, but, like the cell, is flattened at right angles to the long axis of the folium ; in other words, it does not resemble a round bush, but has been aptly compared by Obersteiner to the branches of a fruit tree trained against a treUis or a wall. Hence, in sections carried across the folium the arborescence is broad and expanded ; whereas in those which are parallel to the long axis of the folium, the arborescence, like the cell itself, is seen in profile, and is limited to a narrow area. From the bottom of the flask-shaped cell the axon arises ; this passes through the granular layer, and, becoming medullated, is continued as a nerve-fibre in the subjacent white substance. This axon as it passes through the granular layer gives off fine collaterals some of which run back into the molecular layer. Tlie internal rust-coloured, granular, or nuclear, layer (fig. 707) is characterised by containing numerous small nerve-cells or granules of a reddisli-brown colour, together with many nerve-fibrils. Most of the cells are nearly splierical and provided with short dendrites which spread out in a spider-like manner in the granular layer. Thek axons pass outwards into the molecular layer, and, bifurcating at right angles, run horizontally for some distance. In the outer part of the granular layer are some larger cells, of the type termed Golgi cells. Their axons undergo frequent division as soon as they leave the nerve-cells, and pass into tlie granular layer ; while their dendrites ramify chiefiy in the molecular layer. Finally, in the grey matter of the cerebellar cortex, there are fibres which come from the white centre and penetrate the cortex. The cell-origin of these fibres IS unknown, though it is believed that it is probably in the grey matter of the spuial cord. Some of these fibres end in the granular layer by dividing into numerous branches, on which are to be seen peculiar moss-like appendages ; hence they have been termed by Ramon y Cajal the moss-fibres ; they form an arborescence around the cells of the granular layer. Other fibres derived troni the medullary centre can be traced into the molecular layer, where their branches clmg around the dendrites of Purkinje's cells, and hence they have Deen named the clinging or tendril fibres. (2) The independent centres of grey matter in the cerebellum are TOur in number on either side : one is of large size, and is known as the nucleus <lentatus ; the other three, much smaller, are situated near the middle of the cerebellum, and are known as the nucleus emboliformis, nucleus globosus and nucleus fastigii. 3h