599 THE PERICARDIUM surfaces of the lungs ; the phrenic nerve, with its accompanying vessels, descends between the pericardium and pleura on eitlier side. Structure of the Pericardium.—Although tlie pericardium is usually described as a single sac, an examination of its structure shows that it consists essentially of two sacs intimately connected with one another, but totally different in structure. The outer sac, known as the fibrous pericardium; consists of fibrous tissue. The inner sac, or serous pericardium, is composed of a delicate membrane which lies within the fibrous sac and lines its walls ; the heart invaginates the wall of the serous sac fi-om above and behind, and practically obliterates its cavity, tlie space being a potential one, except in front, where a small interspace exists below the apex of the heart. Fig. 560.—Posterior wall of the pericardial sac, showing the lines of reflection of the serous pericardium on the great Te.ssels. Superior vena cava Rif/ht plvrenic nerve Openings of right pulmonary veinn Venous ntesocardium Pericardium Opening of inferior vena cava Line of rejlection of serous pericardium Aorta Pulmonary ar/ery 'Praiisi erse sinus nf pericardium Openings of left pul- monary veins Left phrenic nerve The fibrous pericardium forms a flask-shaped bag, the neck of which is closed by Its fusion with the external coats of the great vessels, while its base IS attached to the central tendon and to the muscular fibres of the left side of the Diaphragm. In some of the lower mammals the base is eitlier completely separated from the Diaphragm or joined to it by some loose areolar tissue ; in man much of its diaphragmatic attachment consists of loose fibrous tissue whicii can be readily broken down, but over a small area the central tendon ot the Diaphragm and the pericardium are completely fused. Above, the tibrous pericardium not only blends with the external coats of the great vessels, but is continuous with the pretracheal layer of the deep cervical fascia. Dv means of these upper and lower connections it is securely anchored within the thoracic cavity. It is also attached to the posterior surface of the sternum Dy two fibrous bands, the superior and inferior sterno-pericardiac ligaments Ihgg. sternopencardiaca); the upper passing to the manubrium, and the