929 EIGHTH CRANIAL NERVE left lateral fillet arise in the superior olive and trapezoid nucleus of the same or opposite side, wliile others are the uninterrupted fibres already alluded to, and these are either crossed or uncrossed, the former being tlie axons of the cells of the right accessory nucleus or of the cells of the right tuberculum acusticum, while the latter are derived from the same cells of the left side. In the upper part of the lateral fillet there is a collection of nerve-cells, the nucleus of the lateral fillet, around the cells of which some of the fibres arborise and from the cells of which axons originate to contmue upwards tlie tract of the lateral fillet. The ultimate ending of the left lateral fillet is partly in the opposite internal geniculate body, and partly in both inferior quadrigeminal bodies. From the cells of these bodies new fibres arise which ascend in the posterior limb of the internal capsule to reach the posterior three-fifths of the first left temporal convolution and the transverse temporal gyri of Heschl. Fig. 782.—^Terminal nuclei of the cochlear root of the auditory nerve, with their upper connections. (Schematic.) (Testut.) Tho Tcstibular root with ifr! terminal nuclei and their eilerent fibres have been suppressed. On the other hand, in order not to obscure the trapezoid body, the efferent fibres of the terminal nuclei on the right side have been resected in a coa^iderable portion o£ their extent. The trapezoid body, therefore, shows only one-half of its fibres, viz. those which come from the left. 1. Anterior or vestibular root of the auditory, divided at its entrance into the bulb. 2. Posterior or cochlear root. 3. Accessory nucleus of auditory nerve. -1. I'uberculum acusticum. 5. Efferent fibres of accessory nudeiis. 6. Efferent libres of tuberculum acusticum, forming the striie aoustica;, with 6', their direct bundle going to the superior olivary body of the same side; G", their decussating bundles going to the superior olivary body of the opposite side. 7. Superior olivary body. 8. Trapezoid body. 9. Trapezoid nucleus. 10. Central acoustic tract (lateralfillet). 11. Raphe. 13. Pyramidal tract. 13. i'ourth ventricle. 14. llestiform body. The auditory nerve contains a few efferent fibres which arise in the quadrigeminal bodies, the nucleus of the lateral fillet, the trapezoid nucleus, and superior olive. The auditory nerve after leaving the meduUa passes for\\-ards across the posterior border of the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, in company with the facial nerve, from which it is partially separated by the auditory artery. It then enters the internal auditory meatus with the facial nerve. At the bottom of the meatus it receives one or two filaments from the facial nerve, and then divides into its two branches, cochlear and vestibular. The auditory nerve is soft in texture, and is destitute of neurilemma; its distribution will be described with the anatomy of the ear. Applied Anatomy.—The auditory nerve is frequently injured, together with the facial nerve, in fractures of the middle fossa of the base of the skull implicating the internal auditory meatus. Tho nerve may be either torn across, producing permanent deafness, or it may be bruised or pressed upon by extravasated blood or inflammatory exudation, when the deafness will in all probability be temporary. The nerve may also be injured by violent blows on the head without any fracture of the bones of the skull taking place, 3 o