1159 APPLIED ANATOMY OF rNTESTTNE which becomes most distended. It may assume enormous dimensions, and has been known to give way from the distension, causing fatal peritonitis. The hepatic flexure and the right extremity of the transverse colon are in close relationship with the Uver, and abscess of this viscus sometimes bursts into the gut in this situation. The gall-bladder may become adherent to the colon, and gall-stones may find then- way through into it and may become mipacted or may be discharged per anum. The mobiUty of the pelvic colon renders it more Uable to become the seat of a volvulus or twist than any other part of the intestine. It generally occurs in patients who have been the subjects of habitual constipation, and in whom, therefore, the mesocolon is elongated. The gut at this part, being loaded with fseces, falls over the part below, and so gives nse to the ^^Hernia.—The two chief sites at which external hernia may take place are the inguinal region and the crural canal. The description of the inguinal canal and its relations will be found on page 1205 and that of the crural canal on pages 708 and 709. Some points in regard to the disposition of the peritoneum in these regions may, however, be recapitulated here. Between the upper margin of the front of the pelvis and the umbilicus, the peritoneum, when viewed from behind, will be seen to be raised into five folds,with intervening depressions, by more or less prominent bands which converge to the umbiUcus (fig. 924). The urachus, situated in the middle line, is covered by a fold of peritoneum known as the plica urachi. On either side of this a fold of peritoneum round the obliterated hypogastric artery forms the plica hijpogaslrica. To either side of these three cords is the deep epigastric artery covered by the plica epigastrica. Between these raised folds are depressions constituting the so-called fosste. The most internal, between the plica urachi and phca hypogastrica, is known as the internal inguinal fossa (fovea supravesicalis). The middle one is situated between the plica hypogastrica and phca epigastrica, and is termed the middle inguinal fossa (fovea ingumalis mesialis). The external one is external to the plica epigastrica, and is kno\vn as the external inguinal fossa (fovea inguinaUs lateralis). Occasionally the deep epigastric artery corresponds in position to the obliterated hypogastric artery, and then there is but one fold on each side of the middle line. In the usual position of the parts, the floor of the external inguinal fossa corresponds to the internal abdominal ring, and into this fossa an oblique inguinal hernia descends. To the inner side of the plica epigastrica are the two internal fossfe, and through either of these a direct hernia may descend. The whole of the space between the deep epigastric artery, the margin of the Rectus, and Poupart's ligament, is kno-mi as Hesselbach's triangle. Below the level of Poupart's hgament is a small depression corresponding to the position of the crural ring. It is known as the femoral fossa, and into it a femoral hernia descends. Inguinal hernia.—Inguinal hernia is that form of protrusion which makes its way through the abdomen in the inguinal region. There are two principal varieties of it: external or oblique, and internal or direct. In oblique inguinal hernia the intestiae escapes from the abdominal cavity at the internal ring, pushing before it a pouch of peritoneum which forms the hernial sac. As it enters the inguinal canal it receives an investment from the extra-peritoneal tissue and is enclosed in the infundibuliform fascia. In passing along the inguinal canal it displaces upwards the arched fibres of the Transversalis and Internal obhque, and receives a covering of Ci'emaster muscle and cremasteric fascia. It then passes along the front of the spermatic cord and escapes from the ingiiinal canal at the external ring, becoming invested by intercolumnar fascia. Lastly it descends into the scrotum, receiving coverings from the superficial fascia and the integument. The seat of stricture in oblique inguinal hernia is at either the external or internal abdominal ring ; most frequently in the latter situation. If it is situated at the external ring, the division of a few fibres at one point of the circumference is all that is necessary for the replacement of the hernia. If at the internal ring, it is necessary to divide the aponeurosis of the External oblique so as to lay open the inguinal canal; in dividing the aponeurosis the incision should be directed parallel to Poupart's ligament, and the constriction at the internal ring should then be divided directly upwards. When the intestine passes along the inguinal canal and escapes from the external ring into the scrotum, it is called complete obhque inguinal or scrotal hernia. If the intestine does not escape from the external ring, but is retained in the inguinal canal, it is called incomplete inguinal hernia or bubonocele. In each of these cases the coverings which invest it will depend upon the extent to which it descends in the inguinal canal. There are some other varieties of oblique inguinal hernia (fig. 958) depending upon congenital defects in the processus vaginalis, the pouch of peritoneum which precedes the descent of the testis. Normally this pouch is closed before birth, closure commencing at two points, viz. at the internal abdominal ring and at the top of the epididymis, and gradually extending until the whole of the intervening portion is converted into a fibrous cord. From failure in the completion of this process, variations in the relation of the hernial protrusion to the testis and tunica vaginalis are produced ; these constitute distinct varieties of inguinal hernia, viz. congenital, infantile, encysted, and hernia of the funicular process.