THE HEART 603 The base (basis cordis) (fig. 562), directed upwards, backwards, and to the right, is separated from the fifth, sixth, seventli, and eighth thoracic vertebrae by the oesophagus, aorta, and thoracic duct. It is formed mainly by the left auricle, and, to a small extent, by the back part of the right auricle. Some- what quadrilateral in form, it is in relation above with the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and is bounded below by the posterior part of the auriculo- ventricular sulcus, containing the coronary sinus. On the right it is limited by the sulcus terminalis of the right auricle, and on the left by the vestigial fold and oblique vein of Marshall. The four pulmonary veins, two on either side, open into the left auricle, whilst the superior vena cava opens into the upper, and the inferior vena cava into the lower, part of the right auricle. The apex (apex cordis) is directed downwards, forwards, and to the left, and is overlapped by the left lung and pleura : it lies behind the fifth left intercostal space, three and a half inches from the mid-sternal line, or about an inch and a half below and three-quarters of an inch to the inner side of the left nipple. Fia. 563.—Antero-superior surface of heart. The antero-superior surface (facies stemocostalis) (fig. 563) is dii-cctcd forwards, upwards, and to the left. Its lower part is convex, formed chiefly by the right ventricle, and is traversed near its left margin hy the anterior interventricular fm-T'ow. Its upper part is' separated from the lower by the iZu^iuriculo-ventricular groove ; it is formed by the auricles, and presents a deep concavity (fig. 566), occupied by the ascending aorta and the pulmonary artery. The postero-inferior surface (facies diapln-agmatica) (fig. 562), which looks downwards and slightly backwards, is formed by the ventricles, and rests upon the central tendon and a small part of the left muscular portion of the Diaphragm. It is separated from the base by the posterior part of the -.rg^auri,culo-Ypntrinn1ar furrow, and is traversed obliquely by the posterior iftter- • ventrioular gre&ye. ( P <r^y<f-.^-^<f~t ■d^-^t^^^c^.^^iL^*^ ~'0''^t.^oo<t\) The right margin of the heart is long, and is formed by the right auricle above and the right ventricle below. The auricular portion is almost vertical, and is situated behind the third, fourth, and fifth right costal cartilages about half an inch from the margin of the sternum. The ventricular portion, tliin and sharp, is named the margo acutus ; it is nearly horizontal, and extends from the sternal end of the sixth right costal cartilage behind the lower end of the gladiolus to the apex of the heart.