CRANIOLOGY 279 slniU should be made between definite and easily localised points on its surface. The principal points have already been mentioned in the descriptions of the individual skull-bones, but are here tabulated for convenience of reference. They may be divided into two groups : (1) those in the mesial plane, and (2) those on either side of it. The points in the mesial plane are the : Menial point. The most prominent point of the chin. Alveolar point or prosthion. The central point of the anterior margin of the upper alveolar arch. Sub-nasal point. The middle of the lower border of the anterior nasal aperture, at the base of the nasal spine. _Jlasion. The central point of the fronto-nasal suture. __^ihella. The point in the middle Une at the level of the superciliary ridges. ^^Jj^hryon. The point in the middle line at the level where the temporal lines most nearly approach each other. ^_^egma. The meeting point of the coronal and sagittal sutures. Obelion. A point in the sagittal suture on a level with the parietal foramina. Lambda. The point of jimction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures. ^Occipital point. The point in the middle Une of the occipital bone farthest from the glabella. Jjmon. The external occipital protuberance. ^^isihion. The mid-point of the posterior margin of the foramen magnum. ^^sion. The mid-point of the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. The points on either side of the mesial plane are the : Oonion. The outer margin of the angle of the mandible. Dacryon. The point of union of the antero-superior angle of the lachrymal with the frontal bone and the frontal process of the maxilla. ^^tephanion. The point where the temporal hne intersects the coronal suture. '\^terion. The point where the greater wing of the sphenoid joins the antero- inferior angle of the parietal. Auricular point. The centre of the orifice of the external auditory meatus. Asterion. The point of meeting of the lambdoid, masto-occipital, and masto- parietal sutures. The horizontal circumfei-ence of the cranium is measured in a plane passing through the glabella (Turner) or the ophryon (Flower) in front, and the occipital point behind ; it averages about twenty inches (50 cm.) in the female and twenty- one inches (52-5 cm.) in the male. The occipito-fronial or longitudinal arc is measured from the nasion over the middle line of the vertex to the opisthion ; while the basi-nasal length is the distance between the basion and the nasion. These two measurements, plus the antero-posterior diameter of the foramen magnum, represent the vertical circumference of the cranium. The length is measured from the glabella to the occipital point, while the breadth or greatest transverse diameter is usually found near the external auditory meatus. The proportion of breadth to length (]^eadth xJOO) termed the length cephalic index or index of breadth. The height is usually measured from the basion to the bregma, and the pro- portion of height to length ^-^^^jp^^ constitutes the veHical or height index. In studying the face the principal points to be noticed are the proportion of its length and breadth, the shape of the orbits and of the anterior nasal aperture, and the degree of projection of the jaws. The length of the face may be measured from the ophryon or nasion to the chin, or, if the mandible be wanting, to the alveolar point; while its width is represented by the distance between the zygomatic arches. By comparing the length -with the width of the face, skulls may be divided into two groups : dolichofacial or leptoprosope (long-faced) and brachyfacial or chcemoprosope (short-faced). The orbital index signifies the proportion which the orbital height bears to the orbital width, thus : orbital height x 100 orbital width