INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY 705 the pelvis it gives oft" a few muscular branches to the Iliacus, Pyriformis, and Obturator internus, and just previous to quitting that cavity, a nutrient artery which enters the Dium. The superficial branch enters the deep surface of the Gluteus maximus, and divides into numerous branches, some of which supply the muscle, while others perforate its tendinous origin, and supply the integument covering the posterior surface of the sacrum, anastomosing with, the posterior branches of the sacral arteries. The deep branch lies luider the Gluteus medius and almost immediately sub- divides into two. Of these, the superior division, continuing the original coiu'se of the vessel, passes along the upper border of the Gluteus minirnus to the anterior superior spine of the ihum, anastomosing \\ath the circumflex iUac and ascending branches of the external circumflex artery. The inferior division crosses the Gluteus minimus obliquely to the trochanter major, distributing branches to the Gluteus muscles, and anastomoses with the external circumflex artery. Some branches pierce the Gluteus minimus to supply the hip-joint. Surface Marking.—The three main branches of the internal iliac, the sciatic, internal pudic, and gluteal, may occasionally be the objects of surgical interference, and theu positions are indicated on the surface in the following way. With the limb slightly flexed and rotated inwards draw a line from the posterior superior iliac spine to the posterior superior angle of the great trochanter: the point of emergence of the gluteal artery from the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen will correspond with the junction of the upper with the middle third of this Une. Draw a second line from the f)osterior superior ihac spine to the outer part of the tuberosity of the ischium ; the junction of the lower with the middle third marks the point of emergence of the sciatic and jmdic arteries from the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Applied Anatomy.—Any of these three vessels may require ligaturing for a wound or for aneurysm, which is generally traumatic. The gluteal artery is ligatured by turning the jjatient two-thirds over on to his face and making an incision from the posterior superior spine of the Uium to the upper and posterior angle of the great trochanter. This must expose the Gluteus maximus muscle, and its fibres are to be separated through the whole thickness of the muscle and pulled apart with retractors. The contiguous margins of the Gluteus medius and Pyriformis are now to be separated from each other, and the artery will be exposed emerging from the sciatic notch. In Ugature of the sciatic artery, the incision should be made parallel with that for ligature of the gluteal but an inch and a half lower do'svn. After the fibres of the Gluteus maximus have been separated, the vessel is to be sought for at the lower border of the Pyriformis ; the great sciatic nerve, which lies just above it, forms the chief guide to the artery. External Iliao Ahtery (fig. 608) The external iliac artery (a. iliaca externa) is larger than the internal diac, and jiasses obliquely downwards and outwards along the inner border of the Psoas muscle, from the bifurcation of the common iliac to a point beneath Poupart's ligament, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, where it enters the thigh and becomes the femoral artery. Relations.—In front, the artery is in relation with, the peritoneum, subperitoneal areolar tissue, the termination of the ileum on the right side, and the ilio-pelvic colon on the left, and a thin layer of fascia, derived from the ihac fascia, which surrounds the artery and vein. At its origin it is crossed by the ovarian vessels ill the female, and occasionally by the ureter. The spermatic vessels he for some distance upon it near its termination, and it is crossed in this situation by the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve and the deep circumflex ihac vein ; the vas deferens in the rnale, and the round hgament in the female, curve down along its inner side. Behind, it is in relation with the inner border of the Psoas muscle, from which it is separated by the ihac fascia. At the upper part of its course, the external iliac vein hes partly behind it, but lower down lies entii'ely to its inner side. Externally, it rests against the Psoas magnus, fi-om which it is separated by the iliac fascia. Numerous lymphatic vessels and glands he on the front and on the inner side of the vessel. Surface Marking.—The svurface line indicating the course of the external ihac artery has been aheady given (see page 697). Applied Anatomy.—The appMcation of a ligature to the external ihac may be required m cases of aneurysm of the femoral artery, iho-femoral aneurysm, or for a wound of the Z Z