339 FEMUR with the shaft. This junction is specially strengthened by a series of dense lamellse which extend fi'om the lesser trochanter to the outer end of the superior border of the neck; this arrangement will obviously oppose considerable resistance to either tensile or shearing force. A smaller bar stretching across the junction of the great trochanter with the neck and shaft resists the shearing force of the muscles attached to this prominence. These two bars, one at the junction of shaft and neck, the other at the junction of shaft and gi-eat trochanter, form the upper layers of a series of arches which extend across between the sides of the shaft and transmit to the shaft forces applied to the upper end of the bone. In the midst of the cancellous tissue of the neck is a vertical plane of compact bone, the femoral spur {calcar femorale) which commences at the point where the neck joins the shaft midway between the small trochanter and the internal border of the shaft of the bone, and extends in the direction of the digital fossa (fig. 392). This materially strengthens this portion of the bone. Another point in connection with the structure of the neck of the femur requires mention, especially on accoimt of its influence on the production of fracture in this situation. It will be noticed that a considerable portion of the great trochanter lies behind the EiQ. 392.—Calcar femorale. Great trochanter . Digital fossa Small trochanter Calcar femorale level of the posterior surface of the neck, and if a section be made through the trochanter at this level, it \vill be seen that the posterior wall of the neck is prolonged into the trochanter. This prolongation is termed by Bigelow the 'true neck,' * and forms a thin, dense plate of bone, wliich passes beneath the posterior intertrochanteric ridge towards the outer surface of the bone. In the lower end, the cancelli spring on all sides from the inner sui-face of the cylinder, and descend in a perpendicular direction to the articidar surface, the cancelli being strongest and having a more accur- ately perpendicular course above the condyles. In addition to this, however, horizontal planes of can- cellous tissue are to be seen, so that the spongy tissue in this situation presents an appearance of being mapped out into a series of cubical compartments. Articulations. — The femui- articulates with three bones : the OS innominatum, tibia, and patella. Ossification (fig. 393). — The femur is ossified from five centres : one for the shaft, one for the head, one for each trochanter, and one for the lower extremity. Of all the long bones, except the clavicle, it is the first to show traces of ossification ; this commences in the middle of the shaft, at about the seventh week of icetal lite, and rapidly extends upwards and downwards. The centres in the epiphyses appear in the foUowing order: in the lower end of the bone, at the nintn month of foetal life (from this centre the condyles and tuberosities lornied); m the head, at the end of the first year after birth ; in the gi are ^— ^ „„„^, great fh- f 1,' fourth year ; and in the small trochanter, between the muteenth and fourteenth years. The order in which the epiphyses are joined to ine Shaft is the reverse of that of their appearance: they are not united until after puDerty the small trochanter being first joined, then the great, then the head, ana, lastly, the inferior extremity, which is not united until the twentieth year. Bigelow on the Hip, Philadelphia, 1869. Z2