OSTEOLOGY 274 ophthalmic vein. Behind the inner extremity of the splienoidal fissure is the foramen rotundum, for the passage of the second division of the fifth nerve ; still more posteriorly is the foramen Vesalii, which varies in size in different individuals, and is often absent; \\'hen present, it opens below at the outer side of the scaphoid fossa, and transmits a small vein. Behind and external to the latter opening is the foramen ovale, wliich transmits the third division of the fifth nerve, the small meningeal artery, and the small superficial petrosal nerve.* On the outer side of the foramen ovale is the foramen spinosum, for the passage of the middle meningeal artery and veins, and a recurrent bianch from the inferior maxiUary nerve. On the inner side of the foramen ovale is the fo)-amen lacerum medium; in the recent state the lower part of this aperture is filled up by a layer of fibro-cartilage, whUe its upper and inner parts transmit the internal carotid artery surrounded by a plexus of sympa- thetic nerves. The Vidian nerve and a meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery pierce the layer of fibro-cartilage. On the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone are seen, from without inwards, the eminence caused by the projection of the superior semicu-cular canal; in front and a little to the outer side of this a depression corresponding to the roof of the tympanic cavity ; the groove leading to the hiatus Fallopii, for the transmission of the great superficial petrosal nerve and the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery ; beneath it, the smaller groove, for the passage of the small superficial petrosal nerve ; and, near the apex of the bone, the depression for the Gasserian ganglion and the orifice of the carotid canal. The posterior fossa is the largest and deepest of the three. It is formed by the dorsum seUse and chvus of the sphenoid, the occipital, the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporals, and the postero-inferior angles of the parietal bones ; it is crossed by two sutures, the occipilo-masioid and the parieto- mastoid, and lodges the cerebellum, pons Varolii, and medulla oblongata. It is separated from the middle fossa in and near the median Une by the dorsum sellEe, and on either side by the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. This border gives attachment to the tentorium cerebeUi, is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus, and presents at its inner extremity a notch upon which the fifth nerve rests. The fossa is hmited behmd by the grooves for the lateral sinuses. In its centre is the foramen marjnum, on either side of which is a rough tubercle for the attachment of the lateral odontoid or check hgaments ; a little above this tubercle is the anterior condyloid foramen, which transmits the hypoglossal nerve and a meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery. In front of the foramen magnum the basilar process of the occipital and the posterior part of the body of the sphenoid form a grooved surface which supports the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii ; in the young skull these bones are joined by a synchon- drosis. This grooved surf ace is separated on either side from the petrous portion of the temporal by the petro-occipital fissure, which is occupied m the recent state by a plate of cartUage. Tliis fissure is continuous behind with the jugular foramen, and its margins are grooved for the inferior petrosal smus. The jugular foramen is situated between the lateral portion of the occipital and the petrous part of the temporal. The anterior portion of this foramen trans- mits the inferior petrosal sinus; the posterior, the lateral smus and some meningeal branches from the occipital and ascending pharyngea,! arteries ; and the middle, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spmal accessory nerves Above the jugular foramen is the iiiternal auditory mcatt^s, tor tlie facial and auditory nerves and auditory artery ; behind and external to this is the sUt-like opening leading into tlie aquajductus vestibuh, which lodges the ductus endolymphaticus ; while between these, and near the superior border of the petrous portion, is a small triangular depression, the remains of the fossa subarcuata, which lodges a process of tlve dura mater and occasionallv transmits a smaU vein. Behind the foramen magnum are the tnferwr occipital fossce, which support the hemispheres of the cerebellum, separated from one another by the internal occipital crest, which serves for the attachment ol the falx cerebelh, and lodges the occipital sinus The posterior fossns are surmounted by tlie deep transverse grooves for the lateral sinnse.'^. Each ot * See footnote, page 2.34.