OSTEOLOGY 198 On each lateral surface two epiphysial plates are developed (fig. 269) : one for the auricular surface, and another for the remaining part of the thin lateral edge of the bone. ° Periods of Ossification.—About the eighth or ninth week of fostal life, ossifica- tion of the central part of the body of the first sacral vertebra commences, and is rapidly followed by deposit of ossific matter in the second and third ; but ossifica- tion does not commence in the bodies of the lower two segments until between the fifth and eighth months of foetal Ufe. Between the sixth and eighth months ossification of the neural arches takes place ; and about the same time the costal centres for the lateral masses of the first three sacral vertebrae make their ap- pearance. The junction of the neural arches with the bodies takes place in the lower vertebrae as early as the second year, but is not effected in the uppermost until the fifth or sixth year. Fig. 270.—Base of young sacrum. Lateral epiphysis Lateral epiphysis About the sixteenth year the epiphysial plates for the upper and under surfaces of the bodies are formed; and between the eighteenth and twentieth years, those for the lateral surfaces make their appearance. The bodies of the sacral vertebra; are, during early life, separated from each other by intervertebral discs, but about the eighteenth year the two lowest segments become imited by bone, and the process of bony union gradually extends upwards, with the result that between the twenty-fifth and_ thirtieth years of life all the segments are united. On examining a sagittal section of the sacrum, the situations of the intervertebral discs are indicated by a series of oval cavities (fig. 259). Coccyx.—-The coccyx is ossified fi-om four centres, one for each segment. The ossific nuclei make their appearance in the following order : in the first segment between the first and fourth years ; in the second between the fifth and tenth years ; in the third between the tenth and fifteenth years ; in the fourth between the fourteenth and twentieth years. As age advances, the segments become imited with each other, the union between the first and second segments being frequently delayed until after the age of twenty-five or thirty. At a late period of hfe, especially in females, the coccyx is often joined to the sacrum. Vertebral Column as a Whole The vertebral column is situated in the median line, at the posterior part of the trunk; its average length in the male is about 71 centimetres (28 inches). Of this length the cervical part measures 12'5 cm. (5 in.), the thoracic about 28 cm. (11 in.), the lumbar 18 cm. (7 in.), and the sacrum and coccyx 12"5 cm. (5 in.). The female column is about 61 cm. (24 in.) in length. Curves.—Viewed laterally (fig. 271), the vertebral column presents several curves, which correspond to the different regions of the column, and are called cervical, thoracic, lumbar, and pelvic. The cervical curve, convex forwards, begins at the apex of the odontoid process, and ends at the middle of the second thoracic vertebra ; it is the least marked of all the curves. The tJioracic curve, concave forwards, begins at the middle of the second and ends at the middle of the twelfth thoracic vertebra. Its most prominent point behind corresponds to the spine of the seventh thoracic. The lumbar curve is more marked in the female than in the male ; it begins at the middle of the last thoracic vertebra, and ends at the sacro-vertebral angle. It is convex anteriorly ; the convexity of the lower three vertebrae being much greater than that of the upper two. The pelvic curve begins at the sacro-vertebral articulation, and ends at the transverse processes—four on either side—one each for tlic first, third, fourth, and fifth. He is further of opinion that tlie lower part of eacli lateral sin-face of the sacrum is formed by the extension and union of the third and fourth 'costal' and fourth and fifth 'transverse' epiphyses.