1117 THE (ESOPHAGUS portions of the vertebral column. It is the narrowest part of the alimentary canal, and is most contracted at its commencement, and at the pomt where it passes through the Diaphragm. . ,. > n i . „ :„ Relations-The cervical portion (pars cervicalisl of the oesophagus is in relation, in front, with tlie trachea ; and at the lower part of the neck, wliere it proiects to the left side, with the thyroid gland ; beJmid, it vestH upon the vertebral column and Longus colU muscles ; on either side it is m relation with the common carotid artery (especially the left, as it inchnes to that side), and part of the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland ; the recurrent laiyngeal nerves ascend between it and the trachea ; to its left side is the thoracic duct. The thoracic portion (pars thoracahs) of the oesophagus is at hrst situated a httle to the left of the median line ; it passes behind the aortic arch, separated from it by the trachea, and descends in the posterior mediastinum, along the ri<rht side of the aorta, then runs in front and a little to the left of the aorta, and enters the abdomen through tlie Diaphragm at the level of the tenth tlioracic vertebra. Just before it perforates the Diaphragm it presents a distmct dilatation or bulb. It is in relation, in front, with the trachea, the left bronchus, tlie pericardium, and the Diaphragm ; behind, it rests upon the vertebral column the Longus colli muscles, the right intercostal arteries, the thoracic duct, and azyc^os minor veins ; and below, near the Diaphragm, upon the front of the aorta On its left side, in the superior mediastinum, are the terminal part of the arch of the aorta, the left subclavian artery, the thoracic duct^ and left pleura, while running upwards in the angle between it and the trachea is the left recurrent laryngeal nerve ; below, it is in relation wdth the descending thoracic aorta. On its right side are the right pleura, and the vena azygos major which it overlaps. The pneumogastric nerves descend in close contact with it, the right nerve passing down behind, and the left nerve in front of it ; the'two nei-ves uniting to form a plexus (the flexus gidce) around the tube. ' In the lower part of the posterior mediastinum the thoracic duct lies to tlie riglit side of tlie oesophagus ; higher up, it is placed beliind it, and, crossing about" the level of the fourth thoracic vertebra, is continued upwards on its left side. v • j-i. The abdominal portion (pars abdominalis) of the oesophagus hes in the oesophageal groove on the posterior surface of the left lobe of the liver. It measures about half an inch in length, and its front and left aspects only are covered by peritoneal membrane. It is somewhat conical with its base appUed to the upper orifice of the stomacli, and is known as the antrum cardiacum. Fig. 921.—Section of oesophagus. 'r^—Stratified epithclwn ^f.i—iliiscularvi miicosie Structure (fig. 921).—The oeso- phagus has three coats: an external or muscular ; a middle or areolar ; and an internal or mucous coat. The muscular coat is composed ol two planes of considerable thickness : an external longitudinal and an internal circular. The low/iiudincd fibres are arranged, at the commencement of the tube, in three fasciculi: one in front, which is attached to the vertical ridge on the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage; and one at either side, which is continuous with the muscular fibres of the pharynx : as they descend they blend together, and form a uniform layer, which covers the outer surface of the tube. Accessory slips of muscular fibres pass between the oesophagu where the latter covers the thoracic aorta, or the root of the left of the pericardium. Submucous coat f Glands Internal circular I muscular coat External lojigitudinal mtiscular coa t Fibrous sheath as and the left pleura, bronchus, or the back