917 FIFTH CRANIAL NERVE two-thirds of the tongue ; the terminal filaments communicate, at the tip of the tongue, with the hypoglossal nerve. The inferior dental nerve (n. alveolaris inferior) is the largest of the three branches of the inferior maxiUary nerve. It passes do-wnwards with the inferior dental artery, at fii'st beneath the External pterygoid muscle, and tlien between the internal lateral hgament and the ramus of the mandible to the dental foramen. It then passes forwards in the inferior dental canal, lying beneath the teeth, as far as the mental foramen, where it divides into two terminal branches, incisive and mental. Tlie branches of the inferior dental are the mylo-hyoid, dental, incisive, and mental. The mylo-hyoid nerve (n. mylohyoideus) is derived from the inferior dental just as that nerve is about to enter the dental foramen. It descends in a groove on the imier surface of the ramus of the mandible, and reaching tlie under surface of the Mylo-hyoid supplies this muscle and the anterior belly of the Digastric. The dental branches supply the molar and biscupid teeth. Tliey corresijond in number to the fangs of those teeth ; each nerve entering the orifice at the point of the fang, and supplying the pulp of the tooth. The incisive branch is continued onwards M'ithm the bone to the middle line, and suppUes the canine and mcisor teeth. The mental nerve (n. mentalis) emerges from the bone at the mental foramen, and divides beneath the Depressor anguli oris into three branches ; one descends to supply the skin of the chin, and two ascend to supply the skin and mucous membrane of the lower lip. These branches communicate freely with the facial nerve. Two small gangUa are connected with the inferior maxillary nerve : the otic with the trunk of the nerve ; and the submaxillary with its lingual branch. Otic Ganglion (fig. 773) The otic ganglion (ganglion oticum) is a small, oval-shaped, flattened ganglion of a reddish-grey colour, situated immediately belo\v the foramen ovale; it hes on the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, and surrounds the origin of the internal pterygoid nerve. It is in relation, externally. Fig. 773.—The otic ganglion and its branches. with tlie trunk of the iirferior maxillary nerve, at the point where the motor root joins the sensory portion ; internally, with the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube, and the origin of the Tensor palati muscle ; behind, with the middle meningeal artery.