ANGIOLOGY THE vascular system is divided for descriptive purposes into (a) the blood vascular system, which comprises the heart and blood-vessels for the circulation of the blood ; and {b) the lymph vascular system, consisting of lymphatic glands and vessels, through wliich a colourless fluid, the lymph, circulates. It must be noted, however, that the two systems communicate with each other and ai-e intimately associated developmentally. The heart is the central organ of the blood vascular system, and consists of a hollow muscle ; by its contraction the blood is pumped to all parts of the body tlu'ough a complicated series of tubes, termed arteries. The arteries undergo enormous ramification in their course throughout the body, and end in very minute vessels, called arterioles, which in tlieir turn open into a close- meshed net\\ork of microscopic vessels, termed capillaries. After tlie blood has passed through the capillaries it is collected into a series of larger vessels, called veins, by \\'hich it is again returned to the heart. The passage of the blood through the heart and blood-vessels constitutes what is termed the circulation of the blood, of M'liicli tlie following is an outline.* The human heart is divided by a septum into right and left halves, and each half is further divided into two cavities, an upper termed the auricle and a lower the ventricle. The heart therefore consists of four chambers, two, the right auricle and right ventricle, forming the right half, and two, the left auricle and left ventricle, the left half. The auricles are receiving chambers, and the ventricles distributing ones. The right half of the heart contains venous or impure blood ; the left, arterial or pure blood. From the cavity of the left Ventricle the pure blood is carried into a large artery, tlie aorta, through the numerous branches of which it is distributed to aU parts of the body, with the exception of the lungs. In its passage through the capillaries of the body the blood gives up to the tissues the materials necessary for their growth and nourishment, and at the same time receives from the tissues the waste products resulting from their metabolism. In doing so it becomes changed from arterial into venous blood, wliich is collected by the veins and through them returned to the right auricle of the heart. From this cavity the impure blood passes into the right ventricle, and is thence conveyed through the pulmonary arteries to the lungs. In the capillaries of the lungs it again becomes arteriahsed, and is then carried to the left auricle by the pulmonary veins. From the left auricle it passes into the left ventricle, from wliich the cycle once more begins. The course of the blood from the left ventricle through the body generally to the right side of the heart constitutes the gi-eater or systemic circulation, while its passage from the right ventricle througli the lungs to the left side of the heart is termed the lesser or pulmonary circulation. It is necessary, however, to state that the blood which circulates through the spleen, pancreas, stomach, small intestine, and the greater part of the large intestine is not returned directly from these organs to tlie heart, but is collected into a large vein, termed the portal vein, by which it is carried to the liver. In the liver this vein divides, after the manner of an artery, and ulti- ""ti J ^"^^^ capillary vessels, from which tlie rootlets of a series of veins, called the hepatic veins, arise ; these carry the blood into the inferior vena cava, whence it is conveyed to the right auricle. From this it will be seen that * The composition o£ the blood and the structure of the blood-vessels are described iu the section on Histology.