284 OSTEOLOGY The most common chronic disease of the skull is due to syphilis. In acquired syphilis the disease usually occurs as nodes, which arise most commonly in the pericranium, but maj' also arise in the diploe, or more rarely on the inner surface of the skull. The formation of gammata under the periosteum generally leads to airies, which may be either limited if the gumma is localised, or widespread if the gumma is diffuse. The caries is often complicated by necrosis, for a condition of sclerosis is frequently set up in the surrounding bone, and the vessels in the Haversian canals become compressed and the vitality of the bone is interfered wth ; hence we often find a central necrosing area suri-ounded by a zone of caries. Large carious sequestra may be thrown off after prolonged suppuration, leavmg considerable areas of the dura mater exposed. A common result of sj'^philitic disease of the skull is the production of large hard masses of bones on its surface, which give it a tuberculated appearance ; in other cases, the skull j)resents a curious worm-eaten appearance ; this is due to the fact that the osteogenetic powers of the pericranium are small and the formation of bone on the surface slight. In hereditary syphilis, in addition to the formation of gummata, which are usually of the subperiosteal variety, atrophic or hypertrophic changes may take place. In the atrophic cases the bone becomes abnor- mally thin, or even perforated, generally where there is pressure, as from the pillow or nurse's arm. Hence they are usually met with in the parietal bones or vertical plate of the occiput. This condition is known as craniotabes, and may also occur as a consequence of rickets ; it gives rise to a peculiar sensation known as that of ' egg-sheU crackling' when the affected bones, reduced to a membranous or parchment-like consistency, are palpated. In the hypertrophic cases, a deposit of porous bone takes place aromid the anterior fontanelle in the parietal and frontal bones ; these deposits are separated by the coronal and sagittal sutures, and give to the skull an appearance hke a ' hot cross bun.' They are known as Parrot''s nodes, and such a skull has received the name of the ' hot cross bun' skull. The most common tumours of the skull are the osteomata and the sarcomata. The osteoma is generally the ivory exostosis, though cases of spongy exostosis do occur. Sarcomata of the skull may arise either from the pericranium or the diploe, but it is usually impossible to distinguish clinically between the two. Carcinoma, if it occurs in the skull, is always secondary to cancer m some other part of the body. Hypertrophic changes occur in the skull in ostitis deformans, acromegaly, leontiasLs ossea, and in rickets. In these latter cases the skull becomes enlarged from the formation of periosteal outgrowths of soft pumice-like osteoid tissue on the outer side of the skull. These deposits are very rich in blood-vessels, and occur between the ridges of the cranial bones and their centres of ossification, and are symmetrically arranged—often about the anterior fontanelle. The anterior fontanelle itself, instead of closing between the 18th and 24th months, as it normally does, remains patent in rickets until the third or even the sixth year. The general shape of the skull alters. The forehead is high and square, with prominent frontal eminences, and the head tends to be cubical or box-shaped, whereas in hydrocephalus it is rather globular ; the enlargement of the head m rickets appears to be greater than it really is because the development of the facial bones is retarded. The base of the nose may appear sunken, from retarded development of the basis cranii. In marked cases of rickets these changes in the shape of the skull are permanent. In congenital hydrocephalus, or enlargement of the head due to the presence of excess of fluid in the ventricles of the brain, the cranium becomes globular, and its bones are thin and atrophic. Often they are widely separated, the intervening fontanelles beuig much enlarged and partially filled in by numerous Wormian bones ; the atrophy of the cramum and brain may be so extreme that the Ught of a candle may be plauily visible through the whole thickness of the enlarged head. The head may be abnormally small (microcephalus) with premature ossification of its sutures, a condition usually associated with idiocy. Linear craniotomy, or the excision of a strip of bone on either side of the median line, has been proposed as an operation likely to improve the patient's mental development by allowing room for the growth and expansion of the brain. Unfortunately in these cases the brani always shows imperfect or prematurely an-ested development, so that the operation is foredoomed to failure ; in addition, premature ossification of the sutures is not invariably present m microcephalus. The mastoid antrum, situated in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, is some- times the seat of suppuration as a result of infection extending backwards from the tympanic cavity. In such cases, the surgeon has to open tlie antrum in order to give exit to the pus. This he does by introducing his gouge in the suprameatal triangle (see page 224) A line is drawn horizontally through the upper border of the bony external auditory meatus, and a second vertically through the posterior wall of the meatus, ami the gouge is applied in the angle where these two lines intcr-sect each other; it the instrument be introduced at a higher level it will open the cavity of the skull. It is to be carried in the dkection of the external auditory canal—inwards forwards, and a little upwards—for the distance of from 1 to H cm., when the antrum will be reached, in some cases of middle-ear trouble, septic thrombosis of the lateral smus takes place, and it becomes necessary to trephine and explore the sinus.