ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1024 imbue all the layers except Jacob's membrane ; it is of a rich yellow, deepest towards the centre, and does not appear to be due to jpigment-cells, but is simply a stabling of the constituent parts. At the ora serrata the nervous layers of the retina terminate abruptly, and the retina is continued onwards as a single layer of columnar cells covered by the pigmented layer. This prolongation is known as the pars ciliaris retinae, and can be traced forwards from the ciliary processes on to the back of the iris, where it is termed the pars iridica relince or uvea. From the description given of the nervous elements of the retina it Avill be seen that there is no direct continuity between the structures which form its different layers except between the ganghonic and nerve-fibre layers, tlie majority of the nerve-fibres being formed of the axons of the ganghonic cells. In the inner plexiform layer the dendrites of the ganghonic layer interlace with those of the cells of the inner nuclear layer, while in the outer plexiform layer a hke synapsis occurs between the processes of the inner granules and the rod and cone elements. The arteria centralis retinae (fig. 844) andits accompanying vein pierce the optic nerve, and enter the globe of the eye through the poras opticus. The artery immediately bifurcates into an upper and a lower branch, and each of these again divides into an inner or nasal and an outer or temporal branch, which at first run between the hyaloid membrane and the nervous layer ; but they soon enter the latter, and pass forwards, dividing dichotomously. From these branches a mmute capillary plexus is given ofi, which does not extend beyond Fig. 844.—The arteria centrahs retinae, yellow spot, &c. ; the anterior half of the eyeball has been removed. (Enlarged.) the inner nuclear layer. The macula receives small twigs from the temporal branches and^hers (hrectly from the central artery ; these do not, however, reach as far as the fovea centraTi^! which has no blood-vessels. The branches of the arteria centralis retin^ do not Tnastomose with each other-m other words they are termmal arteries. In t fStus a small vessel passes forwards as a continuation of the -tena cen^^^^^^^^ retm.. through the vitreous humour, to the posterior surface of the capsule of the lens. Refbacting Media The refracting media are three, viz. : Aqueous humour. Vitreous body. Crystalline lens. I. Aqueous Humour The aqueous humour fills the anterior and Posterior chambers of the eyeball. It is small in quantity Y .^-^^^nig, accordm^^^^^ nr five grains in weight) and has an alkalmc reaction ; it consists "i<™"\^ Iter'S uian one-fiftieth of its weight being solid matter, chiefly chloride of sodium.