HISTOLOGY THE ANIMAL CELL (fig. 1) ALL the tissues and organs of the body originate from a microscopic structure (the fertilised ovum), which consists of a soft jelly-like granular material enclosed in a membrane, and containing a vesicle or small spherical body inside which are one or more denser spots. This may be regarded as a complete cell. All the solid tissues consist largely of cells essentially similar to it in nature but differing in external form. In the higher organisms a cell may be defined as ' a nucleated mass of protoplasm of microscopic size.' Its two essentials, therefore, are : a soft jelly- like granular material, similar to that found in the ovum, and usually styled protoplasm; and a small spherical body imbedded in it, and termed a nucleus.* Fig. 1.—Diagram of a cell. (Modified from Wilson.) Cell wall Nuclear memhrane Vacuole Altraclion Hphere (centro- sphere) enclosing two cen- trosomes ■Nucleolus Net-hnot of chromatin form- ing a pseudo-nucleolus Chromatin network -Cell-inclusions (paraplasyn) The other constituents of the ovum, viz. its limiting membrane and the denser spot contained in the nucleus, called the nucleolus, are not essential to the type- cell, and in fact many cells exist without them. . . - . Protoplasm {cytoplasm) is a material probably of variable constitution during life, but pelding on its disintegration bodies chiefly of protein nature. Lecithin and cholesterin are constantly found in it, as well as inorganic salts, chief among which are the phosphates and chlorides of the alkali metals and of calcium. It is of a semi-fluid, viscid consistence, and appears either as a hyaline substance, homogeneous and clear, or else it exhibits a granular appearance. Under a high power of the microscope protoplasm is seen to consist of an elastic and refractile network or reticulum, containing in its meshes a clear, semi-fluid, homogeneous substance. The reticulum is composed of a material known as spongioplasm, while the enclosed substance is termed hyaloplasm. The granular appearance is often caused by the knots of the network; but, in addition to * In certain lower forms of life, masses of protoplasm without any nuclei have been described by Huxley and others, as cells. b2