VOMER 255 the furrow receives the rostrum of the sphenoid, while the margins of the aliB articuhite with the vaginal processes of the internal pterygoid plates of the sphenoid behind, and with the sphenoidal processes of the palate bones in front. The inferior border articulates with the crest formed by the maxillge and palate bones. The anterior border is the longest and slopes downwards and forwards. Its upper half is fused with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid ; its lower hali is grooved for the inferior margin of the septal cartilage of the nose. The posterior border is free, concave, and separates the nasal fossae behind. It is thick and bifid above, thin below. Ossification.—At an early period the septum of the nose consists of a plate of cartilage, the ethmo-vomerine cartilage. The postero-superior part of this cartilage is ossified to form the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid; its antero- inferior portion persists as Fig. 328.—The vomer. the septal cartilage, whilst the vomer is ossified in the membrane covering its pos- tero-inferior part. Two ossific centres, one on either side of the middle Une, appear about the eighth week of fcetal hfe in this part of the membrane, and hence the vomer consists primarily of two lamellae. About the third month these imite below, and thus a deep groove is formed in which the cartilage is lodged. As growth proceeds, the miion of the lamellae extends up- wards and forwards, and at the same time the interven- ing plate of cartilage undergoes absorption. By the age of puberty the lamellae are imited to form a mesial plate, but evidence of the bilaminar origin of the bone is seen in the everted alae of its upper border and the groove on its anterior margin. Articulations.—The vomer articulates with six bones : two of the cranium, the sphenoid and ethmoid ; and four of the face, the two maxillae and the two palate bones ; it also articulates with the cartilage of the nasal septum. Applied Anatomy.—^The surfaces of the vomer are covered by mucous membrane, which is intimately connected with the periosteum, little, if any, submucous connective tissue intervening. Hence polypi are rarely found growing from this sinface, though they frequently grow from the outer walls of the nasal fossae, where the submucous tissue is abundant. The Mandible or Inferior Maxilla The Mandible (mandibula), the largest and strongest bone of the face, serves for the reception of the lower teeth. It consists of a curved, horizontal portion, the body, and tAvo perpendicular portions, the rami, which join the back part of the body nearly at right angles. The body (corpus mandibulae) is curved somewhat like a horseshoe, and has two surfaces and two borders. The external surface (fig. 329) is marked in the median hne by a faint ridge, indicating the symphysis or line of junction ot the two pieces of which the bone is composed at an early period of life, ims ridge divides below and encloses a triangular eminence, the mental protuberance (protuberantia mentalis), the base of which is depressed in the centre but raised on either side to form the me7itoZ<M6ercZe(tubercu]um mentale). On either side of the symphysis, just below the incisor teeth, is a depression, me incisive fossa, which gives origin to the Levator menti and a small portion ot the Orbicularis oris. Below the second bicuspid tooth, on either side, midway between the upper and lower borders of the body, is the inental foramen, for the passage of the mental vessels and nerve. Running backwards and upwards from each mental tubercle is a faint ridge, the external oblique (hnea obliqua), which is continuous with the anterior border of the