RIBS 207 attached to the cartilage of the rib above [vertebro-cJiondral): the last two are free at their anterior extremities and are termed floating or vertebral ribs. The Fig. 278.—A central rib of the left side. Inferior aspect. Non-art icular part of tubercle Articular part of tubercle ribs vary in their direction, the upper ones being less oblique than the lower. The obliquity reaches its maximum at the ninth rib, and gradually decreases from that rib to the twelfth. The ribs are situated one below the other in such a manner that spaces called intercostal spaces are left between them. The length of each space corresponds to the lengths of the adjacent ribs and their cartilages ; the breadth is greater in front than behind, and between the upper than the lower ribs. The ribs increase in length from the first to the seventh, below which they diminish to the twelfth. In breadth they decrease from above down^^■ards ; in the upper ten the greatest breadth is at the sternal extremity. Common characteristics of the ribs (figs. 278 and 279).—A rib from the middle of the series should be taken in order to study the common characters of these bones. Each rib presents two extremities, a posterior or vertebral, an anterior or sternal, and an intervening portion—the body or shaft. The posterior or vertebral extremity presents for examination a head, neck, and tuberosity. The head (caj)itulum costse) is marked by a kidney-shaped articular surface, divided by a horizontal ridge (crista capituli) into two facets for articulation with the depression formed by the junction of the bodies of two con- tiguous thoracic vertebrae ; the upper facet is small, thelo\\ er of larger size ; the ridge separating them serves for the attachment of the interarticular ligament. The neck (coUum costse) is the flattened portion which extends outwards from the head ; it is about an inch long, and is placed in front of the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebrae with which the head articulates. Its anterior surface is flat and smooth, its posterior rough, for the attachment of the middle costo- transverse ligament, and perforated by numerous foramina. Of its two borders the superior presents a rough crest (crista colli costse) for the