THIRD CRANIAL NERVE 903 perforates the optic nerve a little beliind the globe, and runs along its interior in a tubular canal of fibrous tissue. It supphes the inner surface of the retina, and is accompanied by corresponding veins. The retina is described with the anatomy of the eyebaU. Applied Anatomy.—The optic nerve is peculiarly liable to become the seat of neuritis or undergo atrophy in affections of the central nervous system, and as a rule the patho- logical relationship between the two affections is exceedingly difficult to trace. There arc, however, certain points in connection with the anatomy of this nerve which tend to throw light upon the frequent association of these affections with intracranial disease. (1) From its mode of development, and from its structure, the optic nerve must be regarded as a prolongation of the brain-substance, rather than as an ordinary cerebro-spinal nerve. (2) As it passes from the brain it receives sheaths from the three cerebral membranes, a perineural sheath from the pia mater, an intermediate sheath from the arachnoid, and an outer sheath from the dura mater, which is also connected with the periosteum as it passes through the optic foramen. These sheaths are separated from each other by spaces which commiuiicate with the subdural and subarachnoid spaces respectively. The innermost or perineural sheath sends a process around the arteria centralis retinte into the interior of the nerve, and enters intimately into its structure. Thus inflammatory affections of the meninges or of the brain may readily extend along these spaces, or along the interstitial connective tissue in the nerve. The course of the fibres in the optic commissure has an important pathological bearing, and has been the subject of much controversy. Microscopic examination, experiments, and pathology all seem to point to the fact that there is a partial decussation of the fibres, each optic tract supplying the corresponding half of each eye, so that the right tract supphes the right half of each eye, and the left tract the left half of each eye. At the same time Charcot beUeves, and his view has met with general acceptation, that the fibres which do not decussate at the optic commissure have already decussated in the corpora quadrigemina, so that the lesion of the cerebral centre of one side causes complete blindriess of the opposite eye, because both sets of decussating fibres are destroyed ; whereas if ono tract, say the right, be destroyed by disease, there will be blindness of the right half of both retinse. An antero-posterior section through the commissure would divide the decussating fibres, and would therefore produce blindness of the inner half of each eye ; while a section at the margin of the side of the optic commissure would produce bhndness of the external half of the retina of the same side. An early symptom of tumour-growth in the pituitary body would be pressure on the commissure. The optic nerve may also be affected in injuries or diseases involving the orbit ; in fractures of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull; in tumours of the orbit itself, or those invading this cavity from neighbouring parts. Third Nerve (figs. 765, 766, 767, 769) The Third or Motor oculi nerve (n. oculomotorius) supphes all the muscles of the orbit, except the Superior oblique and External rectus ; it also supphes, through its connection with the ciliary gangUon, the Sphincter muscle of the iris and the Cihary muscle. It is a rather large nerve, of rounded form and firm texture. The fibres of the third nerve arise from a nucleus which lies in the grey matter of the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius and extends in front of the aqueduct for a short distance into the floor of the third ventricle. From their nucleus of origin the fibres pass forwards through the tegmentum, the red nucleus and the inner part of the substantia nigra, forming a series of curves with their convexity outwards, and emerge from the oculo-motor sulcus on the inner side of the crus cerebri. The nucleus of the oculo-motor nerve does not consist of a continuous column of cells, but is broken up into a number of smaller nuclei, which may be arranged in two groups, anterior and posterior. Those of the posterior group are six in number, five of which are symmetrical on the two sides of the middle line, while the sixth is centrally placed and is common to the nerves of both sides. The anterior group consists of two nuclei, an antero-internal and an antero-external (fig. 765). The nucleus of the tliird nerve is said to give fibres to the seventh nerve, wliich probably supply the Orbicularis palpebrarum, Con-ugator supercilii, and anterior belly of the Occipito-frontahs.* It is also connected with the nuclei * See footnote, p. 841.