367 STRUCTURE OF JOINTS ligaments consist entirely of yellow elastic tissue, as the ligamenta sub- liava, which connect together the lamina of adjacent vertebrae, and the liffamentum nuchse in the lower animals. In these cases it will be observed that the elasticity of the ligament is intended to act as a substitute for muscular power. Synovial membrane is composed of a thm, delicate, connective tissue, with branched connective-tissue corpuscles. Its secretion is thick, viscid, and glairy, like the white of egg, and is hence termed synovia. The synovial membranes in the body admit of subdivision into three kind.s—articular, bursal, and vaginal. The articular synovial memhranes are found in all the freely movable jomts. The membrane invests the inner surface of the capsule enclosing the joint, and is reflected over any tendons passing through its cavity, as the tendon of the Popliteus in the knee, and the tendon of the Biceps in the shoulder. Hence the articular synovial membrane may be regarded as a short wide tube, attached by its open ends to the margins of the articular cartilages and covermg the inner surface of the capsule which connects the articular sui'faces. In the foetus this membrane is said, by Toynbee, to be continued over the surfaces of the cartilages ; but in the adult it is wanting, excepting at the cu'cumference of the cartilage, upon which it encroaches for a short distance and to which it is firmly attached. In some of the joints the synovial mem- brane is thrown mto folds, which pass across the cavity. They are called synovial ligaments, and are especially distinct in the knee. In other joints there are flattened folds, subdivided at their margins into fringe-like processes, which contain convoluted vessels. These folds generally project from the synovial membrane near the margin of the cartilage, and lie flat upon its surface. They consist of connective tissue, covered with endothelium, and contain fat-cells in variable quantities, and, more rarely, isolated cartilage-cells. The larger folds often contain considerable quantities of fat. Under certain diseased conditions, similar processes are found covering the entire surface of the synovial membrane, forming a mass of pedunculated fibro-fatty growths \\hich project into the jomt. Similar structures are also found in some of the bursal and vaginal synovial membranes. The bursal synovial membranes are found interposed between surfaces which move upon each other, as between tendon and bone, or between.the integument and projecting bony surfaces. They admit of subdivision into two kinds, the bursce mucosae and the bursce synovice. The bursce mucosae are large, simple, or irregular sacs in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, enclosmg a clear viscid fluid. They are found below the integument in various situations, e.g. over the front of the patella, the olecranon, the malleoli, and other prominent parts. The bursce synovice are interposed between muscles or tendons, and the projecting bony surfaces over which they play, as between the Gluteus maximus and the great trochanter. Each consists of a thin wall of connective tissue, partially covered by patches of cells, and contains a viscid fluid. Where one of these exists in the neighbourhood of a joint, it may communicate with the joint cavity, as in the case of the bursa between the tendon of the Psoas and Iliacus and the capsular ligament of the hip, or that interposed between the deep surface of the Subscapularis and the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. The vaginal synovial membranes {synovial sheatlis) serve to facilitate the gliding of tendons in the osseo-fibrous canals through which they pass. The membrane is here arranged in the form of a sheath, one layer of which adheres to the wall of the canal, and the other is reflected upon the surface of the enclosed tendon, the space between the free surfaces of the membrane contammg synovia. These sheaths are chiefly found surrounding the tendons of the Flexor and Extensor muscles of the fingers and toes, as they pass through the osseo-fibrous canals m the hand or foot. Synovia is a transparent, yellowish-white, or slightly reddish fluid, viscid hke the white of egg, and has an alkaline reaction and slightly saline taste. ^Vpl'ii^ Anatomy.—All synovial membranes, whether articular, bursal, or vaginal, are hablo to be affected by acute or chronic forms of inflammation, and the processes are essentially similar, no matter which kmd of synovial membrane is affected.