LUMBAR PLEXUS 973 Via. 807.—Segmental distribution of cutaneous nerves of right lower ex- tremity. Front view. surface of the Psoas muscle, under cover of tlie peritoneum, and divides into a genital and a crural branch. Occasionally the two branches emerge .separately througli the substance of tlie Psoas. The genital branch (n. sjjermaticus cxternus) passes outwards on the I'soas magnus, and pierces the fascia trans- ver&alis, or passes thi'ough the internal abdominal ring ; it then descends along the back part of the spermatic cord to the scrotum, supplies, in the male, the Cremaster muscle, and gives a few filaments to the skin of the scrotum. Li the female, it accompanies the round ligament, and is lost upon it. Tlie crural brarich (n. lumboinguin- alis) descends on the external iliac artery, sending a few filaments round it, and, j^assing beneath Poupart's ligament to the thigh, enters the sheath of the femoral vessels, lying superficial and a little external to the femoral artery. It pierces the anterior layer of the sheath of the vessels, and, becoming suj^erficial by isassing through the fascia lata, it supplies the skin of the anterior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the pelvis and knee. On the front of the thigh it communicates with the outer branch of the middle cutaneous nerve, derived from the anterior crural. A few filaments from this nerve may be traced on to the femoral artery ; they are derived from the nerve as it passes beneath Poupart's ligament. The external cutaneous (n. cutaneus femoris lateralis) arises from the second and third lumbar nerves. It emerges from the outer border of the Psoas muscle about its middle, and crosses the Ihacus muscle obliquely, towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium. It then passes under Poupart's ligament and over the Sartorius muscle into the thigh, where it divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior branch descends in an aponeurotic canal formed in the fascia lata, becomes superficial about four inches below Poupart's ligament, and divides into branches which are dis- tributed to the integument along the anterior and outer part of the thigh, as far down as the knee. The terminai filaments of this nerve frequently com- municate with the middle and intej-nal cutaneous, and with the patellar branch of the long saphenous, forming with them tlie patellar plexus. The posterior branch jiierces the fascia lata, and subdivides into External sapheiioits- S. 1.2 Anturior -. tibial L. 4.5