261 HYOID BONE hyoid. It also gives attachment to the Levator glandulse thyroideas, when this muscle is present. In early life the lateral surfaces are connected to the greater comua by synchondroses; after middle life usually by bony union. The greater cornua {thyro-hyals) project backwards from the lateral surfaces of the body; they are flattened from above downwards and diminish ui size from before back- wards ; each terminates in Fio. 337.—Hyoid bone. Anterior surface a tubercle for the attach- (enlarged). ment of the lateral thyro- hyoid ligament. The outer surface gives attachment to the Hyo-glossus ; the upper border to the Middle con- strictor of the pharynx, and the lower to part of the Thyro-hyoid. The lesser cornua (cerato-hyals) are two small, conical eminences, attached hy their bases to the angles of junction between the body and greater cornua, and giving attachment by their apices to the stylo- hyoid ligaments.* The smaller cornua are connected to the body of the bone by distinct diarthrodial joints, which usually persist throughout life, but occasionally become ankylosed. Ossification.—The hyoid is ossified from six centres : two for the body, and one for each cornu. Ossification commences in the body about the eighth month, in the greater cornua towards the end of foetal life, and in the lesser cornua during the first or second year after birth. Surface Form.—The hyoid bone can be felt in the receding angle below the chin, and the finger can be carried along the whole length of the bone to the gi'eater cornu, which ia situated on a level with the angle of the jaw. This process of bone is best perceived by making pressure on one cornu and so pushing the bone over to the opposite side, when the cornu of that side mil be distinctly felt immediately beneath the skin. It is an important landmark in Ugature of the lingual artery. Applied Anatomy.—The hyoid bone is occasionally fractured, generally from direct violence, as in hanging, forcible grasping of the throat in garotting or throttling, or by a blow. The fracture generally occm-s about the junction of the greater cornu with the body of the bone, but sometimes takes place through the latter. Since the muscles of the tongue have important connections with this bone, there is great pain upon any attempt being made to move the tongue, as in speaking or swallowing. EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL The skull as a whole may be viewed from different points, and the views so obtained are termed the normce of the skull; thus, it may be examined from above (norma verticalis), from below (norma basalis), from the side (norma lateraUs), from behind (norma occipitalis), or from the front (norma frontalis). The Skull feom Above (norma verticalis) ^Vhen viewed from above the outline presented varies greatly in different skulls ; in some it is more or less oval, in others more nearly circular. The surface is traversed by three sutures, viz. : (1) the coronal, nearly transverse in direction, between the frontal and parietals; (2) the saijittal, mesially placed, and deeply sen-ated in its anterior two-thirds, uniting the parietal bones ; and (3) the upper part of the lamhdoid, between the parietals and occipital. The point of junction of the sagittal and coronal sutures is named the bregma, * These ligaments in many animals are distinct bones, and in man may undeigo partial ossification.