893 MENINGES OP THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD tlirough the sphenoidal fissure mto the orbit, and another is carried into the same cavity tlu'ough the oj)tic foramen, forming a sheatli for the optic nerve, wliich is continued as far as tlie eyeball. In the posterior fossa it sends a process into the internal auditory meatus, ensheathing the facial and auditory nerves ; another through the jugular foramen, forming a sheath for the structures which pass through this opening ; and a third through the anterior condyloid foramen. Ai-ound the margm of the foramen magnum it is closely adherent to the bone, and is continuous with the spinal dura mater. Processes.—The processes of the cranial dura mater, which project mto the cavity of the skull, are formed by reduphcations of the inner or meningeal layer of the membrane, and are four in number: the falx cerebri, the tentorium cerebelli, the falx cerebelh, and the diapliragma sellse. The falx cerebri, so named from its sickle-Uke form, is a strong, arched process which descends vertically in the longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres of the brain. It is narrow in front, where it is attached to the crista galh of the ethmoid ; and broad behind, where it is connected with the upper surface of the tentorium cerebeUi. Its upper margin is convex, and attached to tlie inner surface of the skull in the middle line, as far back as the internal occipital protuberance ; it contains the superior longitudinal sinus. Its lower margin is free, concave, and presents a sharp curved edge, which contains the inferior longitudinal sinus. The tentorium cerebelli (fig. 756) is an arched lamina of dura mater, elevated in the middle, and inclining do-wnwards towards the circum- FiG. 756.—^Tentorium cerebelli seen from above. Free margin of lenlorium Optic nerve Internal carotid artery Diaphragma sellw \ I Third nerve Attacht-'tl marijin of tentorium 'J'urculur //erojt/tili ference. It covers the upper surface of the cerebellum, and supports the occipital lobes of the brain. Its anterior border is free and concave, and bounds a large oval opening, the incisura tentorii, for the transmission of the crura cerebri. It is attached, behind, by its convex border to the transverse ridges upon the inner surface of the occipital bone