THE LARGE INTESTINE 1153 The splenic flexure (flexura coli sinistra) is situated at the junction of the transverse and descending parts of the colon, and is in relation wdth the lower end of the spleen and the tail of the pancreas. It Hes at a higher level than, and on a plane posterior to, the hepatic flexure, and is attached to the Diaphragm, opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs, by a peritoneal fold, named the phrenocolic or costocolic ligament, which assists in supporting the lower end of the spleen (see page 1129). The descending colon (colon descendens) passes downwards through the left hypochondi-iac and lumbar regions along the outer border of the left kidney. At the lower end of the kidney it turns inwards to\\'ards the outer border of the Psoas muscle, along wMch it descends to the crest of the iUum, where it terminates in the ihac colon. It is retained in position by the peritoneum, wliich covers its anterior surface and sides, its posterior surface being connected by areolar tissue vdth. the outer border of the left kidney, and Avith the Quadratus lumborum muscle (fig. 953). It is smaller in calibre and Fig. 954.—Ilio-pelvic colon and rectum seen from the front, after removal of pubic bones and bladder. more deeply placed than the ascending colon, and is more frequently covered with peritoneum on its posterior surface than the ascending colon (Treves). The iliac colon (fig. 954) is situated in the left ihac fossa, and measures about five or six mches in length. It begins at the level of the ihac crest, where it IS continuous with the descending colon, and ends in the pelvic colon at the "^""1 of tlie pelvis. It curves downwards and inwards in front of the Iliacus and Psoas, and, as a rule, is covered by peritoneum on its sides and anterior surface only. • i"^^^^ pelvic colon (fig. 954) forms a loop which averages about sixteen inches in length, and normally Ues witliin the pelvis, but on account of its freedom of movement it is hable to be displaced into the abdominal cavity. It begins at the brim of the pelvis, where it is continuous ^vit\l the pelvic colon, and passes transversely across the front of the sacrum to the right side of the pelvis ; it then curves on itself and turns towards the left to reach the middle line at the level of the third piece of the sacrum, where it bends downwards and ends 4 E