COSTO-TRAJSrSVERSE ARTICULATIONS 387 sac attached to the cu'cumferences of the articular surfaces, and lined by a sjmovial membrane. The Anterior or Superior Costo-transverse Ligament (lig. costotrans- versarium anterius) consists of two sets of fibres : one (anterior) is attached below to the sharp crest on the upper border of the neck of the rib, and passes obliquely upwards and outwards to the lower border of the transverse process immediately above ; the other (posterior) is attached below to the neck of t he rib, and passes upwards and inwards to the base of the transverse process and outer border of the inferior articular process of the vertebra above. This ligament is in relation, in front, with the intercostal vessels and nerves ; behind, with the Longissimus dorsi. Its internal border is thickened and free, and bounds an aperture which transmits the posterior branches of the intercostal \essels and nerves. Its external border is continuous with a thin aponeurosis, w hich covers the External intercostal muscle. The first rib has no anterior costo-transverse ligament; a band of fibres {lig. lumbocostale) in series with the anterior costo-transverse ligaments Fig. 436.—Costo-transverse articulation. Seen from above. ' connects the neck of the twelfth rib to the base of the transverse process of ■ the first lumbar vertebra. The Middle Costo-transverse or Interosseous Ligament (lig. colli ' costse) consists of short but strong fibres, which pass between the rough ; surface on the back of the neck of the rib and the anterior surface of the • adjacent transverse process. A rudimentary ligament may be present in the case of the eleventh and " twelfth ribs. The Posterior Costo-transverse Ligament (lig. costotransversarium ■ posterius) is a short but thick and strong fasciculus, whicli passes obliquely I from the summit of the transverse process to the rougli non-articular portion ' of the tubercle of the rib. The ligaments attached to the upper ribs ascend I from the transverse processes ; they are shorter and more oblique than those i attached to the inferior ribs, which descend slightly. Movements.—The heads of the ribs are so closely connected to the bodies of I the vertebriB by the stellate and interarticular Ugaments that only slight gliding I movements of the articular surfaces on one another can take place. Similarly, t the strong costo-transverse ligaments binding the necks and tuberosities of the 0 C 2