424 SYNDESMOLOGY below. Its upper circumference is attached to the rim of tlie acetabulum, two or three Hues external to the cotyloid ligament, above and behind ; but in front, it is attached to the outer margin of the ligament, and. opposite to the notch where the margm of the cavity is deficient, it is connected to the trans- verse ligament, and by a few fibres to the edge of the obturator foramen. lis lower circumference surrounds the neck of tlie femui-, being attached, in front, to the spiral or anterior int«rtrochanteric line ; above, to the base of the neck; behind, to the neck, about half an inch above the posterior intertrochanteric luie; below, to the lower part of the neck, close to the lesser trochanter. From this insertion some of the fibres are reflected upwards along the neck as longi- tudinal bands, termed rciinacula. The capsule is much thicker at the upper and fore part of the joint, where the greatest amount of resistance is required, than below and internally, where it is thin, loose, and longer than in am' other part. It consists of two sets of fibres, circular and longitudmal. The circular Fig. 462.—Right hip-joint from the front. (Spalteholz.) fibres [zona orbicularis) are most abundant at the lower and back part of the capsule, and form a sling or collar around the neck of the femur. Anteriorly they blend with the deep surface of the ilio-femoral ligament, and through its medium reach the anterior inferior spine of the Uium. Tlie longitudinal fibres are greatest in amount at the upper and front part of the cajisule, where they are reinforced, b,y distinct bands, or accessory ligaments, of which the most important is the ilio-fcmoral (lig. iliofemoi'ale). The other accessory bands are known as the pubo-fcmoral (lig. pubocapsulare), passing from the ilio-pectineal eminence and obturator crest to the front of tlie capsule, where some of its fibres blend with the lower segment of the ilio-femoral ligament ; and {haischio- cnpsulnr (lig. ischiocapsularo), passing from the ischium, just below the aceta- bulum, to blend with the circular fibres at the lower part of tlie joint. Tlio external surface (fig. 442, page 393) is rougii, covered by numerous muscles, and separated in front from the Psoas and iHacus by a synovial bursa, Mhicli