MYOLOGY 41)0 from the anterior surface and borders of a sliort tendon, tlie iendo oculi or internal tarsal ligament, placed at the inner angle of the orbit. From tlii-' origin, tlie fibres are directed outwards, forming a broad, thin, and flat layei which covers the eyelids, surrounds the circumference of the orbit, and spreads out over the temple, and downwards on the cheek. The palpebral portion (pars palpebralis) of tlie Orbicularis is thin and pale ; it arises from tlu^ bifur- cation of the tendo oculi, forms a series of concentric curves, and is inserted into the external tarsal ligament. The orbital portion (pars orbitalis) is thicker and of a reddish colour: its fibres are well developed, and form complci. ellipses. The upper fibres of this portion blend with the Occipito-frontalis and Corrugator supercilii. The tendo oculi, or internal tarsal ligament, is a short tendon, about two Imes in length and one m breadth, attached to the frontal process of the maxilla in front of the lachrymal groove. Crossmg the lachrymal sac, it divides into two parts, eacli division being attached to the uiner extremity of the corresponding tarsal plate. As the tendon crosses the lachrymal sac, a strong aponeurotic lamina is given off from the posterior surface, which expands over the sac, and is attached to the ridge on the lachrymal bone. This is the reflected aponeurosis of the tendo oculi. The external tarsal ligament is a much weaker structure than the tendo ocuh. It is attached to the margin of the frontal process of tlie malar bone, and passes inwards to the outer commissure of the eyelid, where it divides into two slips, which are attaclied to the margms of the respective tarsal plates. The Tensor tarsi or muscle of Horner (pars lacrimalis m. orbicularis oculi) is a small thin muscle, about tliree lines in breadth and six m length, situated at the inner side of the orbit, behind the tendo oculi and laclirymal sac (fig. 482). It arises from the crest and adjacent part of the orbital surface of the lachrymal bone, and passing across the lachrymal sac, divides into two slips, wliich cover the lachrymal canals, and are inserted into the tarsal plates internal to the puncta lacrimaha. Its fibres appear to be continuous witli those of the palpebral portion of the Orbicularis ]3alpebrarum, from which they are usually considered to be derived ; it is occasionally very indistinct. The Corrugator supercilii is a small, narrow, pyramidal muscle, placed at the inner extremity of the eyebrow, beneath the Occipito-frontalis and Orbicularis palpebrarum muscles. It arises from the inner extremity of the supercfliary ridge ; whence its fibres pass upwards and outwards, between the palpebral and orbital portions of the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and are inserted into the deep surface of the skin, opposite the middle of the orbital arch. Nerves.—The Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, and Tensor tarsi are suppUed by the facial nerve. Actions.—The Orbicularis palpebrarum is the sphincter muscle of the eyelids. The palpebral portion acts involuntarily, closing the Uds gently, as in sleep or in blinking; the orbicular portion is subject to the will. When the entire muscli^ is brought into action, the skin of the forehead, temple, and cheek is drawn inward- towards the inner angle of the orbit, and the eyelids axe fii'mly closed, as in photo- phobia. When the skin of the forehead, temple, and cheek is thus drawn inward- by the action of the muscle it is thrown into folds, especially radiating from the outer angle of the eyehds, which give rise in old age to the so-called ' crow's feel.' The Levator palpebriB is the direct antagonist of this muscle ; it raises the upper eyehd and exposes the globe of the eye. Each time the eycUds are closed through the action of the Orbicularis, the tendo ocuh becomes tightened, and draws the wall of the lachrymal sac outwards and forwards, so that a vacuum is made in it, and the tears are sucked along the lachrymal canals into it. Tln' Tensor tarsi draws the eyeUds and the extremities of the lachrymal canals inwards and compresses them against the surface of the globe of the eye ; thus placini: them in the most favourable situation for recei\'ing the tears. It serves, also, to compress the lachrymal sac. The Corrugator supercihi draws the eyebrow down- wards and inwards, producing the vertical wrinkles of the forehead. It is the ' frowning ' muscle, and may be regarded as the principal agent in the expression of suffering.