343 PATELLA bone can be moved from side to side and appears to be loosely fixed. When the joint is flexed, the patella recedes into the hollow between the condyles of the femur and the upper end of the tibia, and becomes firmly applied to the femur. Applied Anatomy.—The main surgical interest about the patella is in connection with fractures, which are of frequent occurrence. They are most frequently produced by muscular'action—that is to say, by violent contraction of the Quadriceps extensor, while the limb is in a position of semiflexion, so that the bone is snapped across the condyles, and the fracture is transverse. Fracture of the patella is also produced by direct violence, such as falls on the knee, and here the fracture is usually stellate and the bone comminuted. The principal interest in these cases attaches to their treatment. Owing to the displacement of the fragments, and the difficulty there is in maintaining them in apposi- tion, union takes place by fibrous tissue, and this may subsequently stretch, producing wide separation of the fragments and permanent lameness. Truly satisfactory results after this fractirre are generally only to be obtained by opening the joint and wiring the fragments together, and this is especially so when there is marked separation of the frag- ments owing to laceration of the lateral aponeurosis. It is an anatomical possibility, if the fracture involve only the lower and non-articular part of the bone, for this to take place without injury to the synovial membrane and without involving the cavity of the knee-joint. The Tibia The Tibia (figs. 396 and 398) is situated at the front and inner side of the leg, and, excepting the femur, is the longest and largest bone of the skeleton. It is prismoid in form, expanded above, where it enters into the knee-joint, more sUghtly enlarged below. In the male, its dkection is vertical, and parallel with the bone of the opposite side ; but in the female it has a slightly oblique direction downwards and outwards, to compensate for the greater obliquity of the femur inwards. It presents for examination a shaft and two extremities. The upper extremity, or head, is large, and expanded into two lateral emmences, the tuberosities. The superior surface (facies articularis superior) presents two smooth articular facets, one on either side of the middle line (fig. 397). The inner of these is oval in shape, and shghtly concave from side Fig. 397.—Upper surface of right tibia, showing attachment of crucial ligaments and semilunar cartilages. Posterior crucial ligament Internal semilunar Anterior crucial ligament to side, and from before backwards. The outer, nearly circular, is concave from side to side, but slightly convex from before backwards, especially at its posterior part, where it is prolonged on to the posterior surface for a short distance. The central portions of these facets articulate wth the condyles of the femur, while their peripheral portions support the semilunar cartilages of the knee, which here mtervene between the two bones. In the rniddle line, but nearer the posterior than the anterior aspect of the bone, is an eminence, the spine of the tibia (eminentia intercondyloidea), surmounted on either side by a prominent tubercle, on to the lateral aspects of wliich the facets just described are prolonged; in front of and behind the spinous process are rough depressions for the attachment of the anterior and posterior crucial ligaments and the semilunar fibro-cartilages (fig. 397). The anterior