227 TEMPORAL BONES former cavity is always associated with a similar condition in the latter, and may easily spread thence into the mastoid air-cells, leading to caries and necrosis of their walls and the risk of transference of the inflammation to the lateral sinus or brain. The mastoid antrum in fact forms a reservoir for pus which, Lf unable to drain away, may set up serious and often fatal intracranial complications- The superior border of the mastoid portion is broad and serrated, for articulation mth the postero-inferior angle of the parietal. The posterior border, also serrated, articulates with the inferior border of the occipital between the lateral angle and jugular process. Anteriorly the mastoid portion is fused with the descending process of the squamous portion above, and below it enters into the formation of the external auditory meatus and the cavity of the tympanum. The petrous portion (pars petrosa or pyramis), so named from its extreme density and hardness, is pyi'amidal and wedged in at the base of the skull between the sphenoid and occipital bones. Directed inwards, forwards, and a little upwards, it presents for examination a base, an apex, three surfaces, and three borders, and contains, in its interior, the essential parts of the organ of hearing. The base is fused with the internal surfaces of the squamous and mastoid portions. The apex (apex pyraniidis), rough and uneven, is received into the angular interval between the posterior border of the greater wing of the sphenoid and the basilar process of the occipital; it presents the anterior or internal orifice of the carotid canal, and forms the postero-external boundary of the foramen lacerum medium. The anterior surface (fig. 294) forms the posterior part of the middle fossa of the base of the skull. This surface is continuous with the inner surface of the squamous portion, to wluch it is united by the petrosquamous suture, remains of which are distinct even at a late period of life. It is marked by depressions for the convolutions of the brain, and presents six points for examination : (1) an eminence {eminentia arcuata) near the centre, which indicates the situation of tlie superior semicircular canal; (2) in front of and a little to the outer side of this eminence a depression, indicating the position of the tjmipanic cavity : here the layer of bone which separates the tympanic from the cranial cavity is extremely thin, and is known as the tegmen tympani ; (3) a shallow groove, sometimes double, leading outwards and backwards to' an oblique opening, the hiatus Fallopii (hiatus canalis facialis), for the passage of the large superficial petrosal nerve and the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery ; (4) a smaller opening, occasionally seen, external to the last, for the passage of the smaU superficial petrosal nerve ; (5) near the apex of the bone, the termination of the carotid canal, the wall of which in this situation is deficient in front; (6) above this canal a shallow depression (impressio trigemini) for the reception of the Gasserian ganghon. The posterior surface forms the front part of the posterior fossa of the base of the skull, and is continuous with the inner surface of the mastoid portion. It presents three points for examination. (1) Near the centre is a large oi-ifice, the mmtu^acvMi^ the size of which varies considerably ; its margins are smooth and rounded, and it leads into a short canal, about one-thii-d of an inch m length, which runs directly outwards. It transmits the seventh and eighth cranial nerves and the auditory branch of the basilar artery. Tins ^^"vi ^^^^^^ externally by a vertical plate, the lamina cribrosa, which is divided by a horizontal crest, the crista falciformis, into two unequal portions (ng. 296). Each portion is further subdivided by a vertical ridge into an anterior and a posterior part. The portion beneath the crista falciformis presents three sets of foramina ; one group, just below the posterior part of the crest situated in the area cribrosa media, consists of a number of small opeiungs tor the nerves to the saccule ; below and posterior to this is the foramen singulare, or opening for the nerve to the posterior semichcular canal; m front of and below the first is the tractus spiralis foraminosus, consisting of a number of small spirally arranged openings, which encircle the canalis centralis cochleae and transmit the nerves to the cochlea. The portion above the crista presents Dehmd the area cribrosa superior, pierced by a series of small openings, for the Q 2