THE TESTES AND THEIR COVERINGS 1207 The parietal portion (lamina parietalis) is far more extensive than the visceral portion, extending upwards for some distance in front and on the inner side of the cord, and reaching below the testis. The inner surface of the tunica vaginahs is free, smooth, and covered by a layer of endothelial cells. The interval between the visceral and parietal layers of this membrane constitutes the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. The obliterated portion of the pouch may generally be seen as a fibro- cellular thi-ead lying in the loose areolar tissue around the spermatic cord ; sometimes this may be traced as a distinct band from the upper end of the inguinal canal, where it is connected with the peritoneum, down to the tunica vaginalis ; sometimes it gradually becomes lost on the spermatic cord. Occa- sionally no trace of it can be detected. In some cases it happens that the pouch of peritoneum does not become obliterated, but the sac of the peritoneum communicates with the tunica vaginalis. Tliis may give rise to one of the varieties of oblique inguinal hernia (page 1159). In other cases the pouch may contract, but not become entirely obliterated ; it then forms a minute canal leading from the peritoneum to the tunica vaginalis. The tunica albuginea is the fibrous covering of the testis. It is a dense membrane, of a bluish-white colour, composed of bundles of white fibrous tissue which interlace in every direction. Its outer surface is covered by the tunica vaginalis, except at the points of attachment of the epididymis to the testis, and along its posterior border, where the spermatic vessels enter the gland. Its iimer surface is applied to the tunica vasculosa over the glandular substance of the testis, and, at its posterior border, is reflected into the interior of the gland, forming an incomplete vertical septum, called the mediastinum testis [corpus Highmori). The mediastimcm testis extends from the upper, nearly to the lower extremity of the gland, and is wider above than below. From the front and sides of this septum numerous slender fibrous cords and imperfect septa [trabeculce) are given off, which radiate towards the surface of the organ, and are attached to the inner surface of the tunica albuginea. They therefore divide the interior of the organ into a number of incomplete spaces which are somewhat cone-shaped, bemg broad at their bases at the surface of the gland, and becoming narrower as they converge to the mediastinum. The mediastinum supports the vessels and ducts of the testis in their passage to and from the substance of the gland. The tunica vasculosa is the vascular layer of the testis, consisting of a plexus of blood-vessels, held together by deUcate areolar tissue. It covers the inner surface of the tunica albuginea and the different septa in the interior of the gland, and therefore forms an internal investment to aU the spaces of which the gland is composed. structure.—The glandular structure of the testis consists of numerous lobules {lobuli testis). Their number, in a single testis, is estimated by Berres at 250, and by Krause at 400. They differ in size according to their position, those in the middle of the gland being larger and longer. The lobules are conical in shape, the base being directed towards the circumference of the organ, the apex towards the mediastinum. Each lobule is contained in one of the intervals between the fibrous cords and the vascular processes which extend between the mediastinum testis and the tunica albuginea, and consists of from one to three, or more, minute convoluted tubes, the iubuli seminiferi. The tubes may be separately unravelled, by careful dissection under water, and may be seen to commence either by free csecal ends or by anastomotic loops. The total number of tubes is estimated by Lauth at 840, and their average length two feet and a quarter. Their diameter varies from ^Ij^ to rin of an inch. The tubuli are pale in colour in early life, but in old age they acquu-e a deep yellow tinge, from containing much fatty matter. Each tube consists of a basement layer, formed of epithelioid cells united edge to edge, outside which are other layers of flattened cells arranged in interrupted laminae, which give to the tube an appearance of striation in cross-section. The cells of the outer layers gradually pass into the interstitial tissue. Within the basement-membrane are epithehal cells arranged in several irregular layers, which are not always clearly separated, but which may be arranged in thi-ee different groups (fig. 1002). Among these cells may be seen the spermatozoa in different stages of development. 1. Lining the basement-membrane and forming the outer zone is a layer of cubical cells, with small nuclei; these are known as the lining cells or spermatogonia. The nucleus of some of them may be seen to bo in process of indirect division {karyokinesis, page 4), and in consequence of this daughter cells are formed, which constitute the second zone. 2. Within this first layer is to be seen a number of larger polyhedral cells, vdth clear