TENTH CRANIAL NERVE 937 The posterior pulmonary branches (rami bronchiales posteriores), more numerous and larger than the anterior, are distributed on the posterior sTrface oTthe rootof the lung ; they are joined by filaments from the third and foS (sometimes also from the first and second) thoracic gangha of the sym- pathetic, and form the posterior 'pulmonary plexus (plexus oio^'^li^PPff• Branches from this plexus accompany the ramifications of the bronchi through the substance of the lung. , ■ ^rt f,.^»v, The (Esophageal branches (rami oesophagei) are given iiom ^he pneumogastric both above and below the pulmonary branches The lower are more numerous and larger than the upper. They form, together with branches from the opposite nerve, the (ssophageal plexus, hvom tins plexus filaments are distributed to the back of the pericardium. ^ f The g-astric branches (rami gastrici) are the terminal filaments of the pneumogastric nerve. The nerve on the right side is distributed to the posterior surface of the stomach,_and joins the left side of the coehac plexus and the splenic plexus. The nerve on the left side is distributed over the anterior surface of the stomach, and along the lesser curvatm-e. It unites witn branches of the right nerve and wdth the sympathetic, some filaments passmg through the lesser omentum to the hepatic plexus. Applied Anatomy.—The trunk of the pneumogastric is rarely injured, but the functions of the nerve may be interfered mth by damage to its nucleus of origm m the medulla ; by thickening or grow-th from the meninges or bones, or aneurysm of the basilar artery, before its exit from the skull ; injuries such as giuishot or punctured wounds in the neck, or injuries during such operations as hgature of the carotid artery, removal of tuberculous glands or other deep-seated tumours. The pneumogastric may also be compressed by aneurysms of the carotid artery, and its deep crighi becomes afiected m bulbar paralysis. The symptoms produced by paralysis of the nerve are palpitation, with increased freqiiency of the pulse, constant vomitmg, slowing of the respiration, and a sensation of suffocation. ' Reflexes' on the branches of the vagus are not at all uncommonly met with. The ' ear cough ' is perhaps one of the commonest, where a plug of wax in the auditory meatus may by irritating the filaments of Arnold's nerve be responsible for a persistent cough. Syringing the external auditory meatus frequently produces cough, and, in children, vomiting is not uncommon as the result of such a procedure ; moreover, in people with weak hearts, syrmging the ear has been responsible for a sudden fatal syncope, by reflex in-itation of the cardiac branches. Another very common example is the persistent cough which is frequently due to enlarged bronchial glands in children, the irritation of which is referred to the superior laryngeal filaments. The anatomy of the laryngeal nerves is of considerable importance in considering some of the morbid conditions of the larynx. When the peripheral termmations of the superior laryngeal nerve are irritated by some foreigii body passing over them, reflex spasni of the glottis is the result. When its trunk is pressed upon by, for instance, a goitre or an aneurysm of the upper part of the carotid, there is a pecuhar dry, brassy cough. When the nerve is paralysed, there is anaesthesia of the mucous membrane of the larynx, 80 that foreign bodies can readily enter the cavity, and, as the nerve also supphes the Cricothyroid muscle, the vocal cords cannot be made tense, and the voice is deep and hoarse. Paralysis may be the result of bulbar paralysis ; may be a sequel to diphtheria, when both nerves are usually involved; or it may, though less commonly, be caused by the pressure of tumours or aneurysms, when the paralysis is generally unilateral. Irritation of the recun-ent or inferior laryngeal nerves produces spasm of the muscles of the larynx. When both these recurrent nerves are paralysed, the vocal cords are motionless, in the so-called ' cadaveric position '—that is to say, in the position in which they are foimd in ordinary tranquil respiration ; neither closed as in phonation, nor open as in deep inspiratory efforts. When one recurrent nerve is paralysed, the cord of the same side is motionless, while the opposite one crosses the middle line to accommodate itself to the affected one; hence phonation is present, but the voice is altered and weak in timbre. The nerves may be paralysed in bulbar paralysis or after diphtheria, when the paralysis usually affects both sides ; or they may be affected by the pressure of aneurysms of the aorta, innominate, or subclavian arteries ; by mediastinal tumours ; by gummata ; or by cancer of the upper part of the oesophagus, when the paralysis is often unilateral. Paralysis of the adductor muscles of the larynx on both sides is quite common, and is usually functional in nature. The voice is reduced to a whisper, but the power of coughing is preserved. Eleventh Nerve (figs. 783, 785, 786) The Eleventh or Spinal Accessory nerve (n. accessorius) consists of two parts : one, the accessory part to the vagus, and the other the spinal portion.