904 NEUROLOGY of the fourth and sixth nerves, with the cerebellum, upper quadi'igeminal body and cortex of the occipital lobe of the cerebrum. The nucleus of the third nerve. Fig. 765.—Figure showing the dif- ferent grovips of cells, which consti- tute, according to Perlia, the nucleus of origin of the motor oculi nerve. (Testut.) 1 Posterior dorsal nucleus. 1'. Posterior ventral nucleus 2. Anterior dorsal nucleus, i . Jin- terior ventral nucleus. 3. Central nucleus. i Nucleus of Edinger and WestpUal. o. Antero- internal nucleus. G. Antero-extemal nu«eus. 8 Crossed fibres. 9. Trochlear nerve, with 9 , its nucleus of origm, and 9", its decussation. 10. Third ventricle. M, M. Median line. considered from a physiological stand- point, can be subdivided into several smaller groups of cells, each group controlling a particular muscle. The nerves to the different muscles appear to take their origin from behind for- wards, as follows : Inferior obUque, In- ferior rectus, Superior rectus, Levator palpebrse, and Internal rectus ; ^\•hile from the anterior end of the nucleus the fibres for accommodation and for the Sphincter pupillse take their origin. On emerging from the brain, the nerve is invested with a sheath of pia mater, and enclosed in a prolonga- tion from the araclinoid. It passes between the superior cerebellar and posterior cerebral arteries, and then pierces the dura mater in frorit of and external to the posterior clinoid process, passing between the free and attached borders of the tentorium, which are prolonged forwards to be connected ^^-ith the anterior and pos- terior clinoid processes of the sphenoid bone. It passes along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, above the other orbital nerves, receiving ui its course one or two filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and a communicating branch from the first division of the fifth. It then divides into two branches, which enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, between the two heads of the External rectus muscle. On passing Yia, 766.—Plan of the motor oculi nerve. (After Flower.) LeVATOI? PALPEBR'E. MOTOR OCULI placed between its two divisions.