MYOLOGY 570 Fia. 542.—Muscles of the .iliac and nntei'ior femoral regions. the pre-patellar bursa, is placed over the ])atella itself. The last often becomes en- larged, constituting ' liouseniaid's knee.' j The Subcrureus (m. articularis genu) » is a small muscle, usually distinct from the Crureus, but occasionally blended with it, which arises from the aiiterior surface of the lower part of the shaft of the femur, and is inserted into the upper part of tlie synovial membrane of the knee-joint. It sometimes consists of several separate muscular bundles. i Nerves.—The Tensor fasciae femoris is | supplied by the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves through the superior gluteal nerve; the other muscles of this region, by the second, third, and fourth . lumbar nerves, through branches of the I anterior crural. Actions.—The Tensor fascia3 femoris is i a tensor of the fascia lata ; contmumg its action, the oblique direction of its fibres enables it to abduct the thigh and to rotate it inwards. In the erect postiure, acting from below, it wiU serve to steady the pelvis upon the head of the femur ; and by means of the ilio-tibial band it steadies the con- dyles of the femm- on the articular surfaces of the tibia, and assists the Gluteus maximu.? in sujjporting the knee in the extended posi- tion. The Sartorius flexes the leg upon the thigh, and, continuing to act, flexes the thigh upon the pelvis ; it next abducts and rotates the thigh outwards. It was formerly supposed to adduct the thi^h, so as to cross " one leg over the other, as in the squatting position, and hence received its name of Sartorius, or tailor's muscle. "WTien the j Imee is bent, the Sartorius assists the Semi- | tendinosus. Semimembranosus, and PopU- | teus in rotating the tibia inwards. Taking '• its fixed point from the leg, it flexes the pelvis upon the thigh, and, if one muscle acts, assists m rotating the peh-is. The 4j Quadriceps extensor extends the leg upon " the thigh. The Rectus muscle assists the Psoas and Ihacus in supporting the pelvic and trujik upon tlie femur. It also assist. in flexing the thigh on the peh-is, or if the thigh be fixed it will flex the pelvis. The Vastus internus draws the patella inwards well as upwards. Applied Anatomy. — A few fibres of the Rectus muscle are occasionally ruptured from severe strain. This accident is especially liable to occur during the games of football and cricket, and is sometimes knowi as ' crickei thigh.' The patient experiences a stidden pain in the part, as if he had been struck, and the Rectus muscle stands out and is felt to be tense and rigid. The accident is often followed hy considerable swelling from inllaramatory efi'u sion. Occasionally the Quadriceps extensoi