MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE THIGH 567 upper border of the Gluteus maximus, where it splits into two layers, one passing superficial to and the other beneath this muscle ; at the lower border of the muscle the two layers reunite. Externally, the fascia lata receives the greater part of the tendon of insertion of the Gluteus maximus, and becomes proportionately thickened. The portion of the fascia lata attached to the front part of the crest of the ilium, and corresponding to the origm of the Tensor fascise femoris, passes down the outer side of the thigh as two layers, one superficial to and the other beneath this muscle ; these at the lower end of the muscle become blended together into a thick and strong band, having first received the insertion of the muscle. This band is continued downwards, under the name of the ilio-tibial band, to be inserted into the external tuberosity of the tibia. The part of the ilio-tibial band which lies beneath the Tensor fasciae femoris is prolonged upwards to the capsule of the hip, with the outer Fig. 541.—The saphenous opening. part of which it becomes continuous. Below, the fascia lata is attached to all the prominent points around the knee-joint, viz. the condyles of the femur, tuberosities of the tibia, and head of the fibula. On either side of the patella it is strengthened by transverse fibres given off from the lower part of the Vastus muscles, which are attached to and support this bone. Of these the outer are the stronger, and are continuous with the ilio-tibial band. From the inner surface of the fascia lata are given off two strong intermuscular septa, which are attached to the whole length of the linea aspera and its prolonga- tions above and below: the external and stronger one, which extends fi'om the insertion of the Gluteus maximus to the outer condyle, separates the Vastus externus in front from the short head of the Biceps behind, and gives partial origin to these muscles ; the inner one, the thinner of the two, separates the Vastus internus from the Adductor and Pectineus muscles. Besides these