747 VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY elbow, unite with tlie deep radial veins to form the venae comites of the brachial artery. The interosseous veins accompany the anterior and posterior mterosseous arteries. The anterior interosseous veins commence in front of the -vvrist, where they communicate with the deep radial and ulnar veins ; at the upper part of the forearm they receive the posterior interosseous veins, and terminate in the venee comites of the ulnar artery. The deep palmar veins accompany the deep palmar areh, being formed by tributaries which follow the ramifications of that vessel. They com- municate with the deep ulnar veins at the inner side of the hand, and on the outer side terminate in the venae comites of the radial artery. At the m-ist, they receive a dorsal and a palmar tributary from the thumb, and unite with the venae comites of the radial artery. The brachial veins (vv. brachiales) are placed one on either side of the brachial artery, receiving tributaries corresponding with the branches given off from that vessel; near the lower margin of the Subscapularis, they join the axillary vein ; the iimer of the two frequently joins the basilic vein. These deep veins have numerous anastomoses, not only with each other, but also with the superficial veins. The axillary vein (v. axillaris) is of large size, and is the continuation upwards of the basilic vein. It commences at the lower border of the Teres major, increases in size as it ascends, by receiving tributaries corresponding with the branches of the axillary artery, and terminates immediately beneath the clavicle at the outer border of the first rib, where it becomes the subclavian vein. This vessel is covered in front hy the Pectoral muscles and costo- coracoid membrane, and lies on the thoracic side of the axillary artery, which it partially overlaps. Near the lower margin of the Subscapularis it receives the venae comites of the brachial artery, and, near its termination, the cephalic vein. It is provided with a pan- of valves opposite the lower border of the Subscapularis muscle ; valves are also found at the terminations of the cephahc and subscapular veins. Applied Anatomy.—Since the axillary vein is superficial to and larger than the axillary artery, which it overlaps, it is more Uable to be wounded than the artery in the operation of extirpation of the axillary glands, especially as these glands, when diseased, are apt to become adherent to it. When it is wounded, there is always a danger of air being drawn iato its interior, and death resulting. To avoid wounding the axillary vein in the extirpation of glands from the axilla, it is always advisable to expose the vein as soon as possible ; no sharp cutting instruments should be used after the axiUary cavity has been freely exposed; and care should be taken to use no imduo force in isolating the glands (see page 773). Should the vein bo so imbedded in a malignant deposit that the latter cannot be removed without taking away a part of the vein, this must be done after the vessel has been hgatured above and below. The subclavian vein (v. subclavia), the continuation of the axillary, extends from the outer border of the fii'st rib to the inner end of the clavicle, where it unites with the internal jugular to form the innominate vein. It is in relation, in front, with the clavicle and Subclavius muscle ; behind and above, with the subclavian artery, from which it is separated internally by the Scalenus anticus muscle and phrenic nerve. Below, it rests in a depression on the first rib and upon the pleura. It is usually provided with a pair of valves, which are situated about an inch from its termination. The subclavian vein occasionally rises in the neck to a level with the third part of the subclavian artery, and in one or two instances has been seen passing with this vessel behind the Scalenus anticus. Tributaries.—This vein receives the external jugular vein, sometimes the anterior jugular vein, and occasionally a small branch from the cephalic. At its angle of junction with the internal jugular, the left subclavian vein receives the thoracic duct; while the right subclavian vein receives the right lymphatic duct. The innominate or brachio-cephalic veins (vv. anonymae dextra et sinistra) (fig. 639) are two large trunks, placed one on either side of the root of the neck, and formed by the union of the internal jugular and subclavian veins of the corresponding'side.