967 THORACIC NERVES with the adjoining ganglion of tlie sympathetic by one or two filaments. The intercostal nerves are distributed chiefly to the parietes of the thorax and abdomen, and differ fx-oni tiie anterior divisions of the other spinal nerves, in tliat eacli pursues an independent course, i.e. there is no plexus formation. The first two nerves supply fibres to the upper limb in addition to their thoracic branches ; the next four are Hmited in their distribution to the parietes of the thorax ; the five lower supply the parietes of the chest and abdomen. The twelfth thoracic is distributed to the abdominal wall and the skin of the buttock. The first thoracic nerve.—The anterior division of the first thoracic nerve divides into two branches ; one, the larger, leaves the thorax in front of the neck of the first rib, and enters into the formation of the brachial plexus ; the otlier and smaller branch runs along the first intercostal space, forming the first intercostal nerve, and terminates on the front of the chest, by forming the first anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. Occasionally this anterior cutaneous branch is wanting. The fu'st intercostal nerve as a rule gives off no lateral cutaneous branch; but sometmies a small branch is given off, to communicate with the intercosto-humeral. It frequently receives a connecting twig from the second thoracic nerve, which passes upwards over the neck of the second rib. The upper thoracic nerves. — The anterior divisions of the second, third, fourth, fiftli, and sixth thoracic nerves, and the small branch from the fii-st thoracic, are confined to the parietes of the thorax, and are named thoracic intercostal nerves. They pass forwards (fig. 803) in the intercostal spaces below the intercostal vessels. At the back of the chest they lie between the pleura and the posterior intercostal membranes, but soon pierce the latter and run between the two planes of Intercostal muscles as far as the middle of the rib. They then enter the substance of the Internal intercostal muscles, and, running Fig. 803.—^Diagram of the course and branches of a typical intercostal nerve. Lateral cutaneous Anterior cutaneous amidst their fibres as tar as the costal cartilages, they gain the inner surfaces of the muscles and lie between them and the pleura. Near the sternuili, they cross in front of the internal mammary artery and Triangularis sterni muscle, pierce the Internal intercostal muscles, the anterior intercostal membranes, and Pectoralis major muscle, and supjDly the integument of the front of the chest and over the mammary gland, forming the anterior cutaneous nerves (rami cutanei anteriores) of the thorax ; the branch from the second nerve is joined with the supraclavicidar nerves of the cervical plexus.