ELBOW-JOINT 411 and the recurrent branch of the radial. These vessels form a complete anas- tnmotic chain around the joint. , The iVe^es of the joint are a twig from the ulnar, as it passes between the niternal condyle and the olecranon; a filament from the musculo-cutaneous, and two from the median. . t,v ^ •„ +i,„ Movements.-The elbow-joint comprises three different portions, viz the joint between the ulna and humerus, that between the head o the radius and the humerus, and the superior radio-ubiar articulation, described below All these articular surfaces are enveloped by a common synovial membrane and the move- ments of the whole joint should be studied together. The combination of the movements of flexion and extension of the forearm with those of pronation and supination of the hand, which is ensured by the two being performed at the same joint, is essential to the accuracy of the various minute movements of the ^'"'The portion of the joint between the ulna and humerus is a simple hinge-joint, and allows of movements of flexion and extension only. Owing to the obliquity of the trochlear surface of the humerus, this movement does not take place in the plane of the shaft of the humerus. When the forearm is extended and supinated, the axes of the arm and forearm are not in the same line, the iipper portion of the limb forming an obtuse angle with the lower, the hand and forea,-m being directed outwards. During flexion, on the other hand, the forearm and the hand tend to approach the middle Une of the body, and thus enable the hand to be easily carried to the face. The shape of the trochlear surface of the humerus with its prominences and depressions accurately adapted to the great sigmoid cavitv, prevents any lateral movement. Flexion is produced by the action of the Biceps and BrachiaUs anticus, assisted by the Brachio-radiahs and the muscles arisin<x from the internal condyle of the humerus ; extension, hj the Triceps and Anconeus, assisted by the Extensors of the wrist, the Extensor commums digitorimi and the Extensor minimi digiti. j- i i. j f The joint between the head of the radius and the capitellum or radial head ot the humerus is an arthrodial joint. The bony surfaces would of themselves constitute an enari;hrosis and allow of movement in all directions were it not lor the orbicular ligament, by which the head of the radius is bound down fii-mly to the si<^moid cavity of the ulna, and which prevents any separation ot the two bones^laterally. It is to the same ligament that the head ot the radius owes its security from dislocation, which would otherwise tend to occur, from the shallowness of the cup-like surface on the head of the radius. In fact, but lor this h^ament, the tendon of the Biceps would be hable to puU the head ot the radius°out of the joint.* The head of the radius is not in complete contact with the capitellum of the humerus in all positions of the joint. The capiteUum occupies only the anterior and inferior surfaces of the lower end of the humerus, so that in complete extension a part of the radial head can be plainly felt projec^ting at the back of the articulation. In full flexion the movement of the radial head is hampered by the compression of the surrounding soft parts, so that the freest rotatory movement of the radius on the humerus (pronation and supination) takes place-in semiflexion, in which position the two articular surfaces are in freest and most intimate contact. Flexion and extension of the elbow-joint are hmited by the tension of the structures on the front and back of the joint; the hnutation of flexion is also aided by the soft structures of the arm and forearm coming into contact. • 1 -v. In any position of flexion or extension, the radius, carrying the hand with it, can be rotated in the upper radio-ulnar joint. The hand is directly articulated to the lower surface of the radius only, and the concave or sigmoid surface on the lower end of the radius travels round the lower end of the ulna. The latter bone is excluded from the wrist-joint by the interarticular fibro-cartilage. Thus, rota- tion of the head of the radius round an axis which passes through the centre of the radial head of the humerus imparts circular movement to the hand through a very considerable arc. Surface Form.—li the forearm be slightly flexed, a curved crease or fold with its con- vexity do^rawards is seen in the front of the elbow, extending from one condyle to the other. The centre of this fold is some slight distance above the line of the joint. The position * Humphry, op. ait. p. 419.