MUSCLES Am FASCIA OF SHOULDER AND ARM 539 three portions have been named (1) the middle, scapular, or long head ; (2) the external, or long humeral head ; and (3) the internal, or short humeral head. The external and internal heads are separated by the musculo-spiral groove containing the musculo-spu-al nerve and superior profunda vessels. The middle or scapular head (caput longum) arises by a flattened tendon from a rough triangular depression on the scapula, immediately below the glenoid cavity, being blended at its upper part with the capsular ligament; the muscular fibres pass downwards between the two other portions of the muscle, and join witli them m the tendon of insertion. The external head (caput laterale) arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the humerus, between the insertion of the Teres minor and the upper part of the musculo-spiral groove and from the external border of the humerus and the external intermuscular septum ; the fibres from this origin converge towards the tendon of insertion. The internal head (caput mediale) arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the humerus, below the musculo-spLra] groove : it is narrow and pointed above, and extends fi-om the insertion of the Teres major to within an inch of the trochlear surface : it also arises from the internal border of the humerus and from the back of the whole length of the internal and lower part of the external intermuscular septa. Some of the fibres are directed do\vn- wards to the olecranon, while others converge to the tendon of insertion. The tendon of the Triceps commences about the middle of the back part of the muscle : it consists of two aponeurotic laminae, one of which is sub- cutaneous and covers the posterior surface of the muscle for the lower half of its extent; the other is more deeply seated in the substance of the muscle. After receiving the attachment of the muscular fibres, they jom together above the elbow, and are inserted, for the most part, into the posterior portion of the upper surface of the olecranon process ; a band of fibres is, however, continued doAvnwards, on the outer side, over the Anconeus, to blend with the deep fascia of the forearm. The long head of the Triceps descends between the Teres minor and Teres major, dividing the triangular space between these two muscles and the humerus into two smaller spaces, one triangular, the other quadrangular (fig. 520). The triangular space contains the dorsahs scapulae vessels ; it is bounded by the Teres minor above, the Teres major below, and the scapular head of the Triceps externally. The quadrangular space transmits the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve ; it is boimded by the Teres minor above, the Teres major below, the scapular head of the Triceps internally, and the humerus externally. The Subanconeus is the name given to a few fibres from the under surface of the lower part of the Triceps muscle, which are inserted into the posterior ligament and synovial membrane of the elbow-joint. By some authors it is regarded as the homotype of the Subcrureus in the lower limb, but it is not a separate muscle. Nerves.—The Triceps is supplied by the seventh and eighth cervical nerves through the musculo-spiral nerve. Actions.—The Triceps is the great extensor muscle of the forearm, serving, when the forearm is flexed, to extend the elbow-jomt. It is the direct antagonist of the Biceps and Brachiahs anticus. When the arm is extended, the long head of the muscle may assist the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi m drawing the humerus backwards and in adducting it to the thorax. The long head protects the under part of the shoulder-joint, and prevents displacement of the head of the humerus downwards and backwards. The Subanconeus draws up the synovial membrane of the elbow-joint during extension of the forearm. Applitd Anatomy.—The existence of the strong insertion from the Triceps into the fascia of the forearm is of importance in excision of the elbow; it should always be carefully preserved from injury by the operator. By means of these fibres the patient is enabled to extend the forearm, a movement which would otherwise mainly be accomplished by gravity—that is to say, by allowing the forearm to drop from its own weight. III. Muscles and Fascia op the Forearm The deep fascia of the forearm (fascia antibrachii), continuous above with that enclosing the arm, is a dense, highly glistening membranous investment.