1064 SPLANCHNOLOGY Glosso-epiglottic fold The ligament connecting the epiglottis with the hyoid bone is the hyo- epigloUic. In addition to this extrinsic ligament, the epiglottis is connectecfto the tongue by the three glosso-epiglottic folds of mucous membrane, which may also be considered as extrinsic ligaments of the epiglottis. The hyo-epiglottic ligament (lig. hyoepiglotticum) is an elastic band, which extends from the anterior surface of the epiglottis to the upper border of the body of the hj'oid bone. Intrinsic ligaments.-—The ligaments connecting the thyroid cartilage to the cricoid are three in number—the crico-thyroid membrane, and the capsidar ligaments. The crico-thyroid membrane is composed mainly of yellow elastic tissue. It consists of three parts, a central, triangular portion and two lateral portions. The central part (lig. cricothyi-eoideum medium) is thick and strong, narrow above and broad below. It connects together the contiguous margins of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. It is convex, concealed on either side ■ by the Crico-thyroideus, but Fig. 879.—Sagittal section of the larynx and subcutaneous in the roiddle upper part of the trachea. line ; it is crossed horizontally by a small anastomotic arterial arch, formed by the junction of the two crico-thyroid arteries. The lateral portions are thinner and lie close under the mucous membrane of the larynx; they extend from the superior border of the cricoid cartilage to the inferior margin of the true vocal cords, with which they are con- tinuous. These cords may there- fore be regarded as the free borders of the lateral portions of the crico-thyroid mem- brane ; they extend from the vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage near its centre. The lateral por- tions are lined internally by mucous membrane, and covered externally by the Crico-ary- tenoideus lateralis and Thyro- arytenoideus muscles. ' Acapsular ligament,strength- ened posteriorly by a well- marked fibrous band, encloses the articulation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid with the cricoid cartilage on each side. The articulation is lined by synovial membrane. Each arytenoid cartilage is connected to the cricoid by a capsular and a posterior crico-arijtenoid ligament. The capsular ligament is thin and loose, and is attached to the margins of the articular surfaces, and hned by synovial membrane. The posterior crico-arytenoid ligament (lig. cncoarytaMioideum posterius) extends from the cricoid to the inner and back part of the base ot the arytenoid. . , , The thyro-epiglottic ligament (lig. thyreoepiglotticum) is a long, slenaer, elastic coril which connects the apex of the epiglottis with the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, immediately beneath the median notch, above the attachment of the vocal cords. . ., The crico-tracheal ligament (lig. cricotracheale) connects the cricoid cartilage with the first ring of the trachea. It resembles the fibrous membrane wliion connects tlie cartilaginous rings of the trachea to each other. , , ■^ Movements.—The articulation between the hiferior cornu of the tliyroia cartilage and the cricoid cartilage on eitlier side is a diarthrodial one, ana Vocal cords, ventricle between, them Aryteno- epiglottic fold Arytenoid cartilage Arytenoideui muscle Orico-thyroid membrane