ULNAR ARTERY 679 teres lu the lower half of the forearm, it Ues upon the Flexor profundus, being covered by the integument, and the superficial and deep fasciae, and is placed between the Flexor carpi ubiaris and Flexor subUmis digitorum muscles It is accompanied by two vena? comites, and is overlapped in its middle third by the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; the idnar nerve lies on its inner side for the lower two-thirds of its extent, and a small branch from the nerve descends on the lower part ot the vessel to the palm of the hand. ^ i Ih) 4t the wrist (fig. 598) the ulnar artery is covered by the integument and fascia, and lies upon the anterior annular ligament. On its inner side is the pisiform bone, and, somewhat behind the artery, the ulnar nerve. The nerve and artery are crossed by a band of fibres, which extends from the pisiform bone to the anterior annidar ligament. Peculiarities.—The uhiar artery has been found to vary in its origin nearly in the proportion of one m thhteen cases ; it may arise lower than usual, about two or three inches below the elbow, but usually much higher, the brachial being more often the som-ce of origin than the axiUary. Variations in the position of this vessel are more common than in the radial. When its origin is normal, the coiu'se of the vessel is rarely changed. When it arises high up, it is almost invariably superficial to the Flexor muscles in the forearm, lying commonly beneath the fascia, more rarely between the fascia and integument. In a few cases, its position was subcutaneous m the upper part of the forearm, and subaponeurotic in the lower part. Surface Marking.—On account of the curved direction of the uhiar artery, the Ime on the surface of the hmb which mdicates its course is somewhat comphcated. First, di-aw a line from the front of the internal epicondyle of the humerus to the radial side ot the pisiform bone ; the lower two-thkds of this line represent the course of the middle and lower thirds of the artery. Secondly, ch-aw a line from the centre of the hollow m front of the elbow-jomt to the jimction of the upper and middle thirds of the first hue; this represents the course of the upper third of the artery. Applied Anaiomij.—The application of a ligature to this vessel is requu-ed in cases of wound of the artery, or of its branches, or in consequence of aneurysm. In the upper half of the forearm the artery is deeply seated beneath the superficial Flexor muscles, and the apphcation of a ligature in this situation is attended ^vith some difficulty. An incision is to be made in the course of a fine drawn from the front of the internal epicondyle of the humerus to the outer side of the pisiform bone, so that the centre of the incision is three fingers' breadth below the mtemal epicondyle. The skin and superficial fascia having been divided, and the deep fascia exposed, the white fine which separates the Flexor carpi ulnaris from the other Flexor muscles is to be sought for, and the fascia incised in this hue. The Flexor carpi ulnaris is now to be carefully separated from the other muscles, when the ulnar nerve wll be exposed lymg on the Flexor profundus digitorum, and must be dra\vn aside. Some Httle distance below the nerve, the artery will be found accom- panied by its vente comites, and may be hgatured, the needle being passed from within outwards. In the middle and lower thirds of the forearm, this vessel may be easily secured by making an incision on the radial side of the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris : when the deep fascia is divided, and the Flexor carpi uhiaris and the Flexor sublimis separated from each other, the vessel wall be exposed, accompanied by its venfe comites, the idnar nerve lying on its inner side. The veins being separated from the artery, the hgature should be passed from the ulnar to the radial side, taking care to avoid the ulnar nerve. The branches of the ulnar artery may be arranged in the following groups : In the forearm- ir, i (Anterior. Recurrent {posterior. (Anterior interosseous, interosseous I p^g^gj,j^^. interosseous. ^Muscular. ,, ■ , I Anterior ulnar carpal. At the w'nsfJp^g^g^.^j. ^i^^j. ^^^^^ T ji. 1 71 Profunda. In the Superficial palmar arch. The recurrent branches (aa. recurrentes ulnares) are two in number, anterior and posterior. The anterior ulnar recurrent arises immediately below the elbow- joint, runs upwards and inwards between the Brachialis anticus and Pronator teres, supplies twigs to those muscles, and, in front of the inner epicondyle, anastomoses with the anastomotica magna and inferior profmida. The posterior ulnar recurrent is much larger, and arises somewhat lower than the preceding.