MAMMARY GLANDS 1233 due to the contraction of its muscular fibres. It is of a pink or brownish hue, its surface wrinkled and provided with papilla ; and it is perforated by from fifteen to twenty orifices, the apertures of the lactiferous ducts. Tlie surface of the nipple is dark-coloured, and surrounded by an areola having a coloured tint. In the virgin the areola is of a delicate rosy hue ; about tlie second month after impregnation it enlarges and acquires a darker tinge, which increases as pregnancy advances, becoming in some cases of a dark brown, or even black colour. This colour diminishes as soon as lactation is over, but is never entirely lost throughout life. These changes in the colour of the areola are of importance in forming a conclusion in a case of suspected first pregnancy. Near the base of the nipple, and upon the surface of the areola, are numerous large sebaceous glands (glands of Montgomery), which become much enlarged during lactation, and present the appearance of small tubercles beneath the skin. These glands secrete a peculiar fatty substance, which serves as a protection to the integument of the nipple during the act of sucking. The nipple consists of numerous vessels, intermixed with plain muscular fibres, wliich are principally arranged in a circular manner around the base : some few fibres radiating from base to apex. The nijjple and areola are closely attached to the sldn. structure (figs. 1019,1020).—The mamma consists of gland-tissue; of fibrous tissue, connecting its lobes ; and of fatty tissue in the intervals between the lobes. The gland- tissue, when freed from fibrous tissue and fat, is of a pale reddish colour, firm in texture, flattened from before backwards and thicker in the centre than at the circumference. The anterior surface of the mamma presents numerous irregular processes which project towards the skin and are joined to it by bands of connective tissue. It consists of numerous lobes, and these are composed of lobules, connected together by areolar tissue, blood- vessels, and ducts. The smallest lobules consist of a cluster of rounded alveoli, which open into the smallest branches of the lactiferous ducts ; these ducts unite to form larger ducts, and these terminate in a single canal, corresponding \vith one of the chief subdivisions of the gland. The number of excretory ducts varies from fifteen to twenty ; they are termed the tubuli lacliferi. They converge towards the areola, beneath which they form dilatations, or ampullce, which serve as reservoirs for the milk, and, at the base of the nipple, become contracted, and pursue a straight coxu-se to its summit, perforating it by separate orifices considerably narrower than the ducts themselves. The ducts are com- posed of areolar tissue containing longitudinal and transverse elastic fibres ; muscular fibres are entirely absent; they are lined by columnar epithelium resting on a basement- membrane. The epithelium of the mammary gland differ^ according to the state of activity of the organ. In the gland of a woman who is not pregnant or suckling, the alveoli are very small and soUd, being filled with a mass of granular polyhedral cells. During pregnancy the alveoli enlarge, and the cells undergo rapid multiplication. At the commencement of lactation, the cells in the centre of the alveolus undergo fatty degeneration, and are eliminated in the first milk, as colostrum corpuscles. The peri- pheral cells of the alveolus remain, and form a single layer of granular, short columnar cells, with sphe- rical nuclei, lining the basement- membrane.* The cells, during the state of activity of the gland, are capable of forming, in their interior, oil-globules, which are then ejected into the lumen of the alveolus, and constitute the milk-globules. The fibrous tissue invests the entire surface of the breast, and sends down septa between its lobes, connecting them together. The fatty tissue covers the sm'- face of the gland, and occupies the mterval between its lobes. It usually exists in considerable abundance, and determmes the form and size of the gland. There is no fat immediately beneath the areola and nipple. * According to Lacvoix and Benda, there is a thin layer of non-striped muscle between the basement-membrane and the secreting cells. 1 K FiQ. 1020.—^Transverse section of portion of mammary gland.