31 BONE livers of bono formed by the osteoblaais on their surface and the meshes are correspondiu-ly encroached upon. Subsequently successive layers of bony tissue are deposited under the periosteum and round the larger vascular channels which become tiie Haversian canals, so that the bone increases much in thickness. Intracartilaginous ossification.—Just before ossification begins the mass is entirely cartilaginous, and in a long bone, which may be taken as an example the process commences in the centre and proceeds towards the extremities, which for some time remain cartilaginous. Subsequently a similar process commences in one or more places in those extremities and gradually extends through them. The extremities do not, however, become joined to the shaft by bony tissue until growth has ceased; between the shaft and either extremity a layer of cartilaginous tissue termed the epiphysial cartilage persists for a definite period. Fig. 40.—Section of foetal bone of cat. Fig. 41.—Part of a longitudinal section of the developing femur of a rabbit. 1 ir. Irruption of the subperiosteal tissue, p. Fibrous layer of tlie periosteum, o. Layer ot osteoblasts, tni. Subperiosteal bony deposit. (From Quaiu's ' Anatomy," K. A. Schiifer.) o. Flattened cartilage-cells, i. Enlarged cartilagc- cells. c, d. Newly formed bone. c. Osteo- blasts. /. Giant-cells or osteoclasts. 17, It. Shrunken cartilago-eells. (Ftom ' Atlas of Histology,' Klein and Noble Smith.) The first step in the ossification ot the cartilage is that the cartilage-cells, at the point where ossification is commencing and which is termed a centre of ossijication,^ enlarge and aiTange themselves in rows (fig. 40). The matrix in which they- are imbedded increases in quantity, so that the cells become further separated from each other. A deposit of calcareous material now takes place m this matrix, between the rows of cells, so that they become separated from each other by longitudinal columns of calcified matrix, presenting a granular and opaque appearance. Here and there the matrix between two cells of the same row also becomes calcified, and transverse bars of calcified substance stretch across from one calcareous column to another. Thus there are longitudinal groups of the cartilage-ceUs enclosed in oblong cavities, the walls of which are formed