ANGIOLOGY 684 In a few cases an apparently double descending thoracic aorta has been found, the two vessels lying side by side, and eventually fusing to form a single tube in the lower part of the thorax or in the abdomen. One of them is the aorta, the other represents a dissecting aortic aneurysm which has become canalised, opening above and below into the true aorta, and at first sight presenting the appearances of a proper blood-vessel. Applied Anatomy.—The effects likely to be produced by aneurysm of the thoracic aorta, a disease of common occurrence, must now be considered. When the great depth of the vessel from the surface, and the number of important structures which surround it on every side are remembered, it may easily be conceived what a variety of obscure symptoms are likely to arise from disease of this part of the arterial system, and how they may be mistaken for those of other affections. Aneurysm of the thoracic aorta most usually extends backwards, along the left side of the vertebral column, producing absorption of the bodies of the vertebraj, with curvature of the column ; while the irrita- tion or pressure on the spinal cord will give rise to i^ain, either in the chest, back, or loins, with radiating pain in the left upper intercostal spaces, from pressure on the intercostal nerves; at the same time the tumour may project backwards on either side of the vertebral column, beneath the integument, as a pulsating swelling, simulating abscess connected w ith diseased bone ; or it may displace the oesophagus, and compress the Ivmgs on one or the other side. If the tumour extend forward, it may press upon and displace the heart, giving rise to palpitation and other syTuptoms of disease of that organ; it may displace or compress the cesophagus, causing pain and difficulty of swallowing, as in stricture of that tube; and ultimately even open into it by ulceration, producing fatal haemorrhage. If the disease extend to the right side, it may press upon the thoracic duct; or it may biu-st into the pleural cavity, or into the trachea or lung ; and lastly, it may open mto the posterior mediastinum. Pressure on one of the bronchi, usually the left, will cause cough, and in time set up bronchiectasis ; pressure on the left pulmonary plexus has been said to give rise to asthmatic attacks. Of late years, the diagnosis of thoracic aneurysm has been much faciUtated by the employment of the a;-rays, by means of which the outline of the sac may be demonstrated. Visceral - Branches of the Thobaoic Aorta Pericardial. f Intercostal. Bronchial. Parietal j Subcostal. CEsophageal. I Superior phrenic. .Mediastinal. The pericardial (rami pericardiaci) are a few small vessels, irregular in their origin, distributed to the pericardium. ■ • rri. The bronchial arteries (aa. bronchiales) vary m number, size, and origm. There is as a rule only one right bronchial aHery, which arises from the first aortic mter- costal, or from the upper left bronchial artery. The left bronchial arteries axe usually two m number, and arise from the thoracic aorta. The upper left bronchial arises opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra, the lower just below the level of the left bronchus. Each vessel runs on the back part of its bronchus, dividing and subdividing along the bronchial tubes, supplying them, the cellular tissue of the lungs, the bronchial glands, and the oesophagus. The oesophageal arteries (aa. resophageas), usually four or five in number, arise from the front of the aorta, and pass obhquely downwards to the a?sophagus forming a chain of anastomoses along that tube, anastomosing with the oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid arteries above, and Avith asceudmg branches from the phrenic and gastric arteries below. The mediastinal branches (rami mediastinales) are numerous small vessels which supply the glands and loose areolar tissue in the posterior mediastinal space. Intercostal arteries (aa. intercostales). There are usually iime pairs of aortic intercostal arteries. They arise from the back of the aorta, and are distributed to the nine lower intercostal spaces, the first two spaces being supphed by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian. The right aortic lutercostals are longer than the left, on account of the position of the aorta on the left side of the vertebral colunui; they pass across the bodies of the vertebrae behind the oesophagus thoracic duct, and vena azygos major, and are covered by the right lung and pleura. Ihe lejt aorric intcrcostals run backwards on the sides of the vertebra^ and are covered by the left lung and pleura ; the two upper vessels are crossed by the le t superior intercostal vein, the lower vessels by the azygos nnnor veins. Ihe further course of the intercostal arteries is practically the same on both sides. Opposite t le heads of the ribs the sympathetic cord passes downwards in front of them, and the splanchnic nerves also descend in front of the lower arteries. Each artery crosses