667 AXILLARY ARTERY In suppuration in the axilla, the arrangement of tlie fascia; plays a very important part in the direction which the pus takes. As described on page 529, the costo-coracoid membrane after covering in the space between the clavicle and the upper border ot the Pectoralis minor, splits to enclose this muscle, and, reblendijig at its lower border, becomes incorporated with the axillary fascia at the anterior fold of the axilla. This is known as the clavipectoral fascia. Suppuration may take place either superficial to or beneath this layer of fascia ; that is, either between the Pectorals or below the Pectoralis minor : in the former case, the abscess would point either at the anterior border of the axillary fold, or in the groove between the Deltoid and the Pectoralis major ; in the latter, the pus 'would have a tendency to surround the vessels and nerves, and ascend into the neck, that being the direction in which there is least resistance. Its progress towards the surface is prevented by the axiUary fascia ; its progress backwards, by the insertion of the Serratus magnus ; forwards, by the clavipectoral fascia ; inwards, by the wall of the thorax ; and outwards, by the upper limb. The pus in these cases, after extending into the neck, has been laiown to spread through the superior opening of the tliorax into the mediastmum. Some instances have been recorded where the pus found its way along the coiu-se of the vessels into the upper arm. In opening an axillary abscess, the knife should be entered in the floor of the axilla, midway between the anterior and posterior margins and near the thoracic side of the space. After an incision has been made through the skin and fascia it is well to use a director and dressing forceps in the manner directed by Hilton. The relations of the vessels and nerves in the several parts of the axilla are important, for it is the almost universal plan, in the present day, to remove the glands from the axilla in operating for cancer of the breast. In perfonning such an operation, it is necessary to proceed with much caution in the direction of the outer wall and apex of the space, as here the axillary vessels are in danger of being woimded. The subscapular, dorsalis scapulffi, and posterior circumflex vessels on the posterior wall and the thoracic branches along the anterior wall must be avoided. In clearing out the axilla, the axillary vein should be first defined and traced up to the apex of the space by means of an elevator or other blunt instrument. The Pectoralis major is retracted by an assistant; or, as is more commonly the practice in the present day, the sternal origin of this muscle is first removed. This proceeding not only lessens the chance of recurrence of the disease, but also enables the surgeon to clear out the axillary cavity more thoroughly. When the apex of the space is reached all fat and glands must be carefully removed and the whole axilla cleared by separatmg the tissues along the inner and posterior waUs, so that when the proceeding is completed the axilla is emptied of all its contents except the maux vessels and nerves. Axillary Abtery The axillary artery (a. axillaris) (fig. 594), the continuation of the subclavian, commences at the outer border of the first rib, and terminates at the lower border of the tendon of the Teres major muscle, where it takes the name of brachial. Its direction varies with the position of the limb : thus the vessel is nearly straight when the arm is directed at right angles with the trunk, concave upwards when the arm is elevated above this, and convex upwards and outwards when the arm lies by the side. At its commencement the artery is very deeply situated, but near its termination is superficial, being covered only by the skin and fascia. To facilitate the description of the vessel it is divided into three portions ; the fii'st part lies above, the second behind, and the third below the Pectoralis minor. The first portion of the axillary artery is in relation, in front, with the clavicular portion of the Pectoralis major, the costo-coracoid membrane, the external anterior thoracic nerve, and the acromio-thoracic and cephalic veins ; behind, with the first intercostal space, the correspondiag Intercostal muscle, the first and second digi- tations of the Serratus magnus, and the posterior thoracic and internal anterior thoracic nerves; on its outer side, with the brachial plexus, from which it is separated by a little areolar tissue ; on its inner, or thoracic side, with the axillary vein which overlaps the artery. It is enclosed, together with the axillary vein and the brachial plexus, in a fibrous sheath—the axillary sheath— continuous above with the deep cervical fascia. The second portion of the axillary artery is covered, in front, by the Pectorales major and minor ; behind it, is the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, and some areolar tissue which intervenes between it and the Subscapularis muscle; on the inner side is the axillary vein, separated from the artery by the inner cord of the brachial plexus and the internal anterior thoracic nerve; on the outer side is the outer cord of the brachial plexus. The brachial plexus of nerves thus surrounds