DEVELOPMENT OP THE LYMPHATICS 149 ovale. In consequence of the communication between the pulmonary artery and the aorta, through the ductus arteriosus, the contents of the right ventricle are mainly carried into the latter vessel instead of to the lungs, and hence the wall of the"right ventricle is as thick as that of the left. At the end of foetal hfc, however, the left "ventricle is thicker than the right, a difference which becomes more and more emphasised after birth. The foetal circulation and the changes which take place in the circulation after birth are described on pages 614 to 616. The lymphatic vessels.—The lymphatic system begins as a series of sacs * at the points of junction of certain of the embryonic veins. These lymph-sacs are developed by the confluence of numerous venous radicles, which at first lose their connections with the venous system, but subsequently, on the formation of the sacs, regain them. The lymphatic system is therefore developmentally an offshoot of the venous system, and the lining walls of its vessels are always endo- thelial. As already stated in the chapter on Histology (page 61), it forms a closed system, and has not as was formerly supposed any direct communication with tissue clefts or spaces. Fig. 198.—Scheme showing relative positions of primary lymph-sacs based on the description given by Florence Sabin. Left innominate Jugular lymph-sac Bight innominate Vena cava superior Pre-renal part of vena cava inferior Post-renal part of vena cava inferior Cistema chyli Posterior lymph-sac ~ Internal jugular External jugular Duct of Cuvier - Left cardinal Left capsular Left renal Betro-peritoneal lymph-sac Left common iliac External iliac Internal iliac In the human embryo the lymph-sacs from which the lymphatic vessels are derived are six in number : two paired, the jugular and the posterior lymph-sacs ; and two unpaired, the retro-peritoneal and the cisterna chyli. In lower mammals an additional pair, subclavian, is present, but in the human embryo these are merely extensions of the jugular sacs. The position of the sacs is as follows : (1) jugular sac, at the junction of the subclavian vein with the primitive jugular ; (2) posterior sac, at the junction of the iliac vein with the posterior cardinal; (3) retro-peritoneal, in the position of the cross branch between the renal veins ; (4) cisterna chyli at the site of the cross branch between the two iliac veins (fig. 198). From the lymph-sacs the lymphatic vessels bud out along fixed lines corresponding more or less closely to the course of the embryonic blood-vessels. They all arise as endothelial outgrowths, which later become canalised. Both in the body wall and in the wall of the intestine.t the deeper plexuses are the first to be developed ; by continued growth of these the vessels in the superficial layers are gradually formed. It is as yet undeter- mmed whether the thoracic duct is formed from anastomosing outgrowths from the jugular sac and cisterna chyli or whether it is developed by the transformation * Sabin. AmericoM Journal of Anatomy, vol. ix., No. 1, Feb. 1909. -f Heuer. Ibid.