294 OSTEOLOGY Ossification (fig. 352).—The scapula is ossified from neven or more centres : one for tlie body, two for the coracoid process, two for the acromion, one for the vertebral border, and one for the inferior angle. Ossification of the body begins about the second month of foetal life, by the formation of an irregular quadrilateral plate of bone, immediately behind the glenoid cavity. This plate extends so as to form the chief part of the bone, the spine growing up from its posterior surface about the third month. At birth, a large part of the scapula is osseous, but the glenoid cavity, the coracoid and acromion processes, the posterior border, and inferior angle are cartilaginous. From the fifteenth to the eighteenth month after birth, ossification takes place in the middle of the coracoid process, which as a rule becomes joined with the rest of the bone about the fifteenth year. Between the fourteenth and twentieth years, ossification of the remaining parts takes place in quick succession, and usually in the following order ; first, in the root of the coracoid process, in the form of a broad scale ; secondly, near the base of the acromion process ; thirdly, in the inferior angle and contiguous part of the posterior border ; fourthly, near the extremity of the acromion ; fifthly, in the posterior border. The base of the acromion process is formed by an outward extension of the spine ; the two separate nuclei of the process unite, and then join with the extension from the spine. The upper third of the glenoid cavity is ossified from a separate centre (subcoracoid), which makes its appearance between the tenth and eleventh years and joins between sixteen and eighteen. Further, an epiphysial plate appears for the lower part of the glenoid cavity, while the tip of the coracoid process frequently presents a separate nucleus. These various epiphyses are joined to the bone by the twenty-fifth year. Failure of bony union between the acromion process and spine sometimes occurs, the junction being effected by fibrous tissue, or by an imperfect articulation ; in some cases of supposed fracture of the acromion with ligamentous union, it is probable that the detached segment was never united to the rest of the bone. Articulations.—The scapula articulates with the humerus and clavicle. Surface Form.—The only parts of the scapula which are truly subcutaneous are the spine and acromion process, but, in addition to these, the coracoid process, the vertebral border and inferior angle, and, to a less extent, the axillary border, may be defined. The acromion process and spine are easily felt throughout their entke length, forming, with the clavicle, the arch of the shoulder. The acromion can be ascertauxed to be connected to the clavicle at the acromio-clavicular joint by rimnmg the finger along it, the position of the joint being often indicated by an irregularity or bony outgrowth from the clavicle close to the joint. The acromion can be felt formmg the point of the shoulder, and from this can be traced backwards to the spme. The place of junction is denoted by a prommence, which is sometimes called the acromial angle. The spine can be felt as a distmct ridge, marked on the surface as an obhque depression, which becomes less and less distinct and ends a little external to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. It« termination is indicated by a slight dimple in the skin, on a level with the mterval between the third and fourth thoracic spines. Below this point the vertebral border of the scapula may be traced, runnmg do%vnvvards and outwards to the inferior angle of the bone, which can be recognised, although covered by the Latissunus dorsi. From this angle the axillary border can usually be traced through its thick muscular covermg, formmg, with the muscles, the posterior fold of the axilla. The coracoid process may be felt about an inch below the junction of the middle and outer third of the cla\ncle. It is covered by the anterior border of the Deltoid, and lies a little to the outer side of a slight depression, corresponding to the mterval between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid. When the arm is hangmg by the side, the upper angle of the scapula corresponds to the upper border ot the second rib or the mterval between tJie farst and second thoracic spines, the inferior angle to the upper border of the eighth nb or the interval between the seventh and eighth thoracic spines. _ Applied A-natomy.—FractuTes of the body of the scapula are rare, owing to the mobiUty of the bone, the thick layer of muscles by which it is encased, and the elasticity ot the ribs on which it rests. Fracture of the neck is also uncommon The most trequeiit course of the fracture is from the suprascapular notch to the infraglenoid tubercle and it derives its principal interest from its simulation of a subglenoid dislocation ot the humerus. The diagnosis can be made by notmg the alteration m the position ot the coracoid process. The acromion process is more frequently broken than any other part of the bone, and fibrous union is very liable to occur in this situation. . t w The presence ot ' winged scapula' (scapulas alata;) described in thm persons of feeble muscular development in whom the lower angles of the blade-bones project unduly, is due partly to abnormal roundness of the thoracic wall (' barrel-shaped chest, page zii),