193 SACRUM sacral vertebra, and form the lateral crests of the sacrum (cristae sacrales laterales). The transverse tubercles of the first sacral vertebra are of large size, very distinct, and correspond with the superior angles of the bone; they, together with the transverse tubercles of the second vertebra, give attachment to the horizontal parts of the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments ; those of the third vertebra give attachment to the obUque fasciculi of the posterior sacro- iliac Ugaments ; and those of the fourth and fifth to the great sacro-sciatic ligaments. The lateral surface, broad above, becomes nan-owed into a thin edge below. The upper half presents in front a broad, ear-shaped surface for articu- lation with the ilium. This is called the auricular surface (facies auricularis), and in the fresh state is coated with fibro-cartilage. Behind it are three deep and uneven impressions, for the attachment of the posterior sacro-ihac liga- ment. The lower half is tliin, and termmates in a projection called the inferior Fig. 258.—Sacrum, posterior surface. lateral angle ; internal to this angle is a notch, which is converted into a foramen by the transverse process of the upper piece of the coccyx, and trans- mits the anterior division of the fifth sacral nerve. The thin lower half of the lateral surface gives attachment to the great and small sacro-sciatic Ugaments, and to some fibres of the Gluteus maximus behind, and to the Coccygeus in front. The base of the sacrum, wliich is broad and expanded, is directed upwards and forwards. In the middle is seen a large oval articular surface, the upper surface of the body of the first sacral vertebra, which is connected with the under surface of the body of the last lumbar vertebra by an intervertebral disc. Behind it, is the large triangular orifice of the sacral canal, which is completed by the laminaj and spinous process of the first sacral vertebra. The superior articular processes project from it on each side ; they are oval, concave, directed backwards and inwards, like the superior articular processes of a lumbar vertebra ; in front of each is an intervertebral notch, which forms o