1173 THE LIVER tlie tube, presenting much the appearance of a continuous spiral valve. When the duct is distended, the spaces between the folds are dilated, so as to give to its exterior a t\\ isted ajipearance. The common bile-duct (ductus choledochus) is formed by the junction of the cystic and liepatic ducts; it is about tlu'ce inches in length, and of the diameter of a goose-quiU. It descends along the right border of the lesser omentum behind the first portion of the duodenum, in fi-ont of tlie portal vein, and to the right of Fig. 969.—Transverse section of gall-bladder. the hepatic artery ; it then passes between the head of the pancreas and descending portion of the duodenum, and, running for a short distance along the right side of the terminal part of the pancreatic duct, passes with it, obliquely between the mucous and muscular coats. The two ducts unite and open by a common orifice upon the summit of a pajiilla, situated at the inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum, a little below its middle and about three or four inches from the pylorus (fig. 941). The short tube formed by the union of the two ducts is dilated into an ampulla, the ampulla of Vater. structure.-—The coats of the large biliary ducts are an external or fibrous, and an internal or mucous. The fibrous coat is composed of strong fibro-areolar tissue, with a certain amount of muscular tissue, arranged, for the most part, in a circular manner around the duct. The mucous coat is continuous with the lining membrane of the hepatic ducts and gall-bladder, and also with that of the duodemun ; and, Uke the mucous membrane of these structures, its epithelium is of the columnar variety. It is provided with numeroiis mucous glands, which are lobulated and Open by minute orifices scattered uxegularly in the larger ducts. Surface Relations.—The liver is situated mainly in the right hypochondriac and the epigastric regions, and is moulded to the dome of the Diaphragm. In the greater part of its extent it lies tmder cover of the lower ribs and their cartilages, but in the epigastric region it comes in contact wth the abdominal wall, in the subcostal angle. The upper limit of the right lobe of the liver may be defined in the middle fine by the junction of the meso- sternum with the ensLform cartilage; on the right side the line must be carried upwards as far as the fifth rib cartilage in the line of the nipple, and then downwards to reach the seventh rib at the side of the chest. The tapper limit of the left lobe may be defined by continuing this line to the left, with an inclination downwards, to a point about two inches to the left of the sternxun on a level with the sixth left costal cartilage. The lotver limit of the liver may be indicated by a fine drawn half an inch below the lower border of the thorax on the right side, as far as the ninth right costal cartilage, and thence obliquely upwards across the subcostal angle to the eighth left costal cartilage. A slightly curved Ime with its convexity to the left from this point, i.e. the eighth left costal cartilage, to the tei-mination of the line indicating the upper limit, will denote the left margin of the liver. Birmingham teaches that the limits of the normal liver may be marked out on the surface of the body in the following manner. Take three points: 1, half an inch below the right nipple ; 2, half an inch below the tip of the tenth rib ; and 3, one inch below the left nipple. Join 1 and 3 by a line slightly convex upwards; join 1 and 2 by a line