SPLANCHNOLOGY 1218 and ammoniacal, and lends to cystitis. For this condition ■proslaleclmn.y is sometimes done. The bladder is opened by an incision above the sym|)hysis j)ubis, the mucous membrane of the post-prostatic jjouch is scratched through, and the finger is then introduced into the space between the true capsule of the prostate and outer capsule formed Ijy the fascia cndopelvina. Separation in this plane is then carried out below and laterally until the apex of the gland is reached. The whole of the work is done with the finger, \i hich is graduall}' swept round the sides until the anterioi- surface is reached and freed. The gland is then, by traction, displaced into the bladder and removed, usually carrying with it the greater portion of the mucous membrane of the pi-ostatic urethra. Haemorrhage, which may be considerable at times, is checked by hot irrigations, and the bladder is temporarily drained. Very satisfactory results have followed this operation. The prostate can be reached from the perinjeum, and in some cases the enlarged gland has been removed by this route, but the perineal approach is not usually emploj'ed except in the case of abscess of or about the gland. Cowper's Glands Cowper's glands (glandulse bulbo-urethrales) are two small, rounded, and somewhat lobulated bodies, of a yellow colour, about the size of peas, placed behind the membranous portion of the urethra, between the two layers of the triangular ligament. They lie close above the bulb, and are enclosed by the transverse fibres of the Compressor urethrse muscle. Their existence is said to be constant : they gradually diminish in size as age advances. The excretory duct of each gland, nearly an inch in length, passes obHquely forwards beneath the mucous membrane, and opens by a minute orifice on the floor of the bulbous portion of the urethra. ■ Structure—Each gland is made up of several lobules, held together by a fibrous investment. Each lobule consists of a number of acini, lined by colmnnar epithelial cells, opening into one duct, which joins with the ducts of other lobules outside the gland to form the single excretory duct. FEMALE EEPKODUCTIVE OEGANS The female reproductive organs (organa genitalia muliebria) consist of an internal and an external group. The internal organs are situated ^^•itllin the pelvis, and consist of the ovaries, the Fallopian tubes, the uterus, and the vagina. The external organs are placed below the triangular ligament of the urethra and below and in front of the pubic arch. They comprise the mons Veneris, the labia majora et minora, the clitoris, the bulbus vestibuh, and the glands of Bartholin. The Ovaeies The ovaries are homologous with the testes in the male. They are two nodular bodies, situated one on either side of the uterus in relation to the lateral wall of the pelvis, and attached to the back of the broad ligament of the uterus, behind and below the Fallopian tubes (fig. 1010). The ovaries are of a greyish- pink colour, and present either a smooth or a puckered uneven surface. Tiiey are each about an inch and a half in length, three-quarters of an mcli m width, and about a third of an inch in thickness, and weigh from one to two drachms Each ovary (ovarium) presents an outer and an inner surface, an upper and a lower extremity, and an anterior and a posterior border. It lies ui a shalloy depression, named the fossa ovarii, on tiie lateral wall of the pelvis ; this fossa is bounded above by the external iliac vessels, in front by tlio obliterated liypogastric artery, and behind by the ureter. The exact position ot the ovary has been the subject of considerable difference of opinion, and the desciiption liere given applies to the ovary of the nulliparous woman. Ihe ovary becomes displaced during the first pregnancy, and ]irobably never again returns to its original position. Li tlic erect posture the long axis ot the ovary is vertical. Tlie ujiper or tubal extremity is near the external iliac vein ; to it is attaciied the ovarian fimbria of the Fallopian tube and a fold ot peritoneum, the suspensory ligament of the ovary, which is directed upwards over tile iliac vessels and contains tiie ovarian vessels. 'Ihe loiver or uterine