ULNA 305 appears in the olecranon near its extremity, Inferior extremity Fig. 360. ulna. Plan of ossification of the From tkree centres. Olecranon Appears at jjamSb^ Joins shaft at tenth year f^S^ sixteenth year ISL.fl downwards to the Supinator brevis, the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the Extensor longus pollicis, and the Extensor indicia. The mternal surface (facies raedialis) is broad and concave above, narrow and convex belo^\'. It gives origin by its upper three-fourths to the Flexor profundus digitorum : its lower fourth is subcutaneous. The lower extremity of the ulna is of smaU size, and presents two eminences; the outer and larger is a rounded, articular eminence, termed the head of the ulna; the inner, narrower and more projecting, is a non-articular eminence, the styloid process. The head (capitulum ulnae) presents an articular surface, part of which, of an oval or semilunar form, is directed downwards, and articu- lates with the upper surface of the interarticular fibro-cartilage which separates it from the wrist-joint; the remaining portion, directed outwards, is narrow, convex, and received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius. The styloid process (processus styloideus) projects from the inner and back part of the bone; it descends a little lower than the head, and ends in a rounded summit, which affords attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. The head is separated from the styloid pro- cess, internally, by a depression for the attachment of the apex of the trian- gular interarticular fibro-cartilage, and behind, by a shallow groove for the passage of the tendon of the Extensor carpi ulnaris. Structure.—The structure of the ulna is simihir to that of the other long bones. Ossification.—The ulna Ls ossified fi-oni three centres : one each for the shaft, the inferior extremity, and the top of the olecranon (fig. 360). Ossification begins near the middle of the shaft about the eighth week of fcetal life, and soon extends through the greater part of the bone. At birth the ends are cartilaginous. About the fourth year, a centre appears in the middle of the head, and soon extends into the styloid process. About the tenth year, a centre the chief part of this process being formed by an upward extension of the shaft. The upper epiphysis joins the shaft about the sixteenth, the lower about the twentieth year. Articulations.—The ulna articulates with the humerus and radius. Surface Form.—The most prominent part of the ulna, the olecranon process, can always be identified at the back of the elbow-joint, men the forearm is flexed, the upper quadi-ilateral surface can be felt, directed backwards ; during extension it recedes mto the olecranon fossa, and the contracting fibres of the Triceps prevent its being perceived. On the back of the olecranon is the smooth, triangular, subcutaneous surface, contmuous with the posterior border of the shaft. During extension, the upper border ot the olecranon is slightly above the level of the internal epicondyle, and the process Itself IS nearer to this epicondyle than to the external one. Running down the back of the forearm, fi'om the apex of the triangular surface, is the prominent posterior border of the ulna, which can be felt throughout its entire length. As it passes down the forearm It pursues a sinuous course and inclines to its inner side, so that it is situated in the middle of the back of the limb above, and on the inner side of the wTist below. It is. rounded ofi m its lower third, and may be traced below to the small subcutaneous surface ot the styloid process. Internal to this border the lower fourth of the inner surface can be telt. The styloid process forms a prominent tubercle, continuous above v.'ith the posterior subcutaneous border, and terminating below in a blunt apex, which lies on a level witti the wrist-jomt. The styloid process is best perceived when the hand is in a position nudway between supination and pronation. If the forearm be pronated while the finger IS placed on the process, the latter will be felt to recede, and another prominence will X Appears at. fourth year ■Joins shaft at twentieth year