703 INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY runs transversely inwards along the cutaneous surface of the Transversus perinaai muscle, and anastomoses with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side and with the super- ficial perineal and inferior hromon-hoidal arteries. It supplies the Transversus perma3i and the structures between the anus and the bulb of the urethra. The artery of the bulb (a. bulbi urethrfe) (fig. 612) is a short vessel of large calibre which arises from the"internal pudic between the two layers of the triangular ligament; it passes nearly transversely inwards through the fibres of the Compressor uretliTcne muscle, pierces the superficial layer of the triangular ligament, and gives FiG. 613.—The arteries of the gluteal and posterior off branches which ramify in femoral regions, the bulb of the urethra. It is then continued forwards in the corpus spongiosum to the glans penis. It gives off a small branch to Cowper's gland. The aHenj of the corpus cavernosum (a. profunda penis), one of the terminal branches of the internal pudic, arises from that vessel while it is situated between the two layers of the triangular Ugament ; it pierces the superficial layer, and, entering the eras penis obliquely, runs forwards in the centre of the corpus caver- nosum, to which its branches are distributed. The dorsal artery of the penis (a. dorsahs penis) ascends between the crus and the pubic symphysis, and, j>ierciag the triangular ligament, passes between the two layers of the suspensory ligament of the penis, and runs forwards on the dorsum of the penis to the glans, where it divides into two branches, which supply the glans and prepuce. On the penis, it Ues between the dorsal nerve and deep dorsal vein, the former being on its outer side. It supplies the integu- ment and fibrous sheath of the corpus cavernosum, send- ing branches through the sheath to anastomose with the pre- ceding vessel. Termination of internal circumflex Superior perforating Middle perforating Inferior perforating Termination of profunda Superior nmscular Superior internal articular Superior external articular Inferior m uscular The internal pudic artery in the female is smaller than in the male. Its origin and course are similar, and there is considerable analogy in the distribution of its branches. The superficial perineal artery supplies the labia pudendi; the artery of the bulb supplies the bulbus vestibuli and the erectile tissue of the vagina; the artery of the corpus cavernosum supplies the cavernous body of the clitoris ; and the arteria dorsalis clitoridis supplies the dorsum of that organ, and terminates in the glans and in the membranous fold corresponding to the prepuce of the male. The sciatic artery (a. glutsea inferior) (fig. 613), the larger of_ the two terminal branches of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, is distributed chiefly on the buttock and back of the thigh. It passes down on the sacral plexus of nerves and the