811 THE JiiiAIN brain : its cavity becomes the aqueduct of Sylvius, wliich serves as a tubular communication between the third and fourtli ventricles ; while its waUs are thickened to form the corpora quadrigemina and crura cerebri, which constitute the bond of union of the fore-brain \viththe limd-brain. The fore-brain under- goes great modification : its anterior part (telencephalon) expands laterally in the form of two hollow vesicles the cavities of which become the lateral ventricles, while the surrounding walls form the cerebral hemispheres and their commissures ; tl:e cavity of the posterior part of the fore-brain (diencephalon) forms the greater part of the third ventricle, and from its walls are developed most of the structures which bound that cavity. Further details regarding these important changes are given in the chapter on Embryology (page 118). THE HIND-BEAIN The hind-brain or rhombencephalon occupies the posterior fossa of the cranial cavity and lies below a fold of dura mater, the tentorium cerebelli. It consists of (a) the myeleyicefhalon, which comprises the nieduUa oblongata and the lower part of the fourth ventricle ; {b) the metencephalon, which includes the pons, cerebellum, and upper part of the fourth ventricle ; and (c) the isthmus rhombencepJiali, a constricted portion immediately adjoining the mesencephalon, which comprises the superior peduncles of the cerebellum and the valve of Vieussens. The Medtjlla Oblongata The medulla oblongata, or bulb, forms the lowest and smallest division of the brain ; its structure, however, is extremely complex, since it gives attachment to many of the cranial nerves, and forms the comiecting link between the spinal cord below and the cerebrum and cerebellum above. It extends from the lower margin of the pons Varolii to a plane passing transversely below the decussation of the pyramids and above the first pair of cervical nerves ; this plane corresponds with the upper border of the atlas behind, and the middle of the odontoid process of the axis in front, and at this level the medulla oblongata is continuous with the spinal cord. Its anterior surface is separated from the basi-occiput and the upper part of the odontoid process of the axis by the membranes of the brain and the occipito- axial ligaments. Its posterior surface is received mto the fossa between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and the upper portion of it forms the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The vertebral arteries pass up-vA^ards and forwards in relation to its lateral aspects ; they then curve forwards on to its anterior surface and unite at the lower border of the pons Varolii to form the basilar artery. The medulla oblongata (fig. 687) is pyramidal in shape, its broad extremity being directed upwards towards the pons Varolii, while its nairow, lower end is ' contmuous with the spinal cord. It ' measures rather over an inch in length, ^ a little less than an inch in breadth at its widest part, and about half an inch ; in thickness ; while it weighs about a quarter of an ounce. The central canal of the spinal cord is prolonged into its lower half, and then opens into the cavity of the fourth ventricle ; and the medulla may therefore be divided into a lower closed part containing the central canal, and an upper open part corresponding ' wth the lower portion of the fourtli ventricle. Its anterior and posterior surfaces are marked by median fissures, which are continuous with the corresponding fissures of the spinal cord.