THE KIDNEYS 1191 The kidney may require exposure for exploration or the evacuation of pus (nepiuotomy); it may be incised for the removal of stone (nephio-hthotomy); it may KutuSvl enmovabte (nephrorrhaphy); or it maybe removed {nephrectomy). It may be exposed either by a lumbar or an abdominal incision; except in cases of veryla^e tuZL, a lumbar incision is best, as it has the advantages of not opemng the Pentoneum and of affording admkable di-ainage. An oblique incision shou d be made, starting at the outer border of the Erector spina=Thalf an inch below the last rib and du-ected dowTiwards and forwards towards a point an inch in front of the anterior superior spine of tlie ihum Thestructm-es di^^ded are the skin, the superficial fascia ^vlth the cutaneous nerves the deep fascia, the posterior border of the External oblique muscle of the abdomen and the outer bordei- of the Latissunus dorsi ; the Internal obhque and the posterior aponeurosis of the Transversalis muscle ; the outer border of the Quadratus lumborum ; the deep layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, and the transversahs fascia, ihe tatty tissue around the kidney is now exposed to view, and must be separated by the fingers, or a duector, in order to reach the kidney. The operations of nephro-lilholmny, for the removal of calculi from the kidney, and nephrotomy, or incision of the kidney for abscess, &c., are generally performed by the lumbar incision. This route is also generally chosen for nephrectomy. The abdominal operation is best performed by an incision through the outer part of the Rectus on the side of the kidney to be removed ; the kidney is then reached irom the outer side of the colon, ascending or descencUng, as the case may be, and the vessels of the colon are not mterfered with. The incision commencing just below the costal arch is made of varying length, according to the size of the kidney. The abdoniinal cavity is opened. The intestines are drawn inwards and the peritoneum over the ladney to the outer side of the colon incised, so that the fingers can be introduced behind the pentoneum. The kidney must now be enucleated, and the vessels fii-mly Ugatui-ed and divided with the m-eter, the latter being tied, or if thought necessary stitched to the edge of the wound. The particular advantage of the abdominal operation is that the condition ot the other kidney can be ascertained by manual examination, before the removal of the diseased kidney is finally decided upon. 11 i • j rm, Nephrorrhaphy is the name given to the operation for fixing a movable kidney, ihe kidney is reached by the lumbar incision, and its posterior surface denuded of its fatty capsule. Tliree stitches of medium thickness are passed through the transversahs fascia and muscles and through the cortical portion of the kidney, securing a good hold of it. WTien these sutures are tied, the kidney is tightly anchored in position; cases which are seen somethnes afterwards seem however to show that it does not always remain fixed. The Ueetbrs The ureters are the two tubes ^yhich convey the urine from the kidneys to the bladder. Each commences within the sinus of the corresponding kidney as a number of short cup-shaped tubes, termed calyces or infundibula, which encircle the renal pwpillce. Since a single calyx may enclose more than one papilla the calyces are generally fewer in number than the pyramids— the former varying from seven to thirteen, the latter from eight to eighteen. The calyces join to form two or three short tubes, and these unite to form a funnel-shaped dilatation, wide above and narrow below, named the pelvis of the kidney, which is situated behind the renal vessels and lies partly inside and partly outside the renal sinus. It is usually placed on a level with the spinous process of the first lumbar vertebra. _ . The ureter proper measures from ten to twelve inches in length, and is a thick-walled narrow cylindrical tube which is directly continuous near the lower end of the Iddney with the tapering extremity of the pelvis. It runs downwards and inwards in fr'ont of the Psoas muscle and, entering the pelvic cavity, finally opens into the base of the bladder. The abdominal part (pars abdominalis) lies behind the peritoneum on the inner part of the Psoas muscle, and is crossed obliquely by the spermatic vessels. It enters the pelvic cavity by crossing either the termination of the common, or the commencement of the external, iliac vessels. At its origin the right m-eter is usually covered by the second part of the duodenum, and in its course downwards Ues to the right of the infei-ior vena cava, and is crossed by the right coUc artery, wliile near the jDelvic brim it passes behind the lower part of the mesentery and the terminal part of the ileum. The left ureter is crossed by the left colic artery, and near the brim of the pelvis passes behind the pelvic colon and its mesentery. The pelvic part (pars pelvina) runs at first dowTiwards on the lateral wall of the pelvic cavity under cover of the peritoneum, lying in front of the internal