946 CERVICAL NERVES to the viscera, either directly or after interruption in one of the distal ganglia. The afferent fibres are derived partly from the unipolar cells (type I.) and partly from the multipolar cells (type III.) of the spinal ganglia. Theii- periplieral processes are carried outwards through the white rami communicantes, and after passing through one or more sympathetic ganglia (but always without interruption in them) finally terminate in the tissues of the viscera. The central processes of the unipolar cells enter the spinal cord through the posterior nerve root and form synapses around either somatic or sympathetic efferent neurons, thus completing reflex arcs. The dendrites of the multipolar nerve cells form synapses around the cells of type II. (cells of Dogiel) in the spinal ganglia, and by this path the original impulse is transferred from the sym- pathetic to the somatic system, through which it is conveyed to the sensorium. Divisions.—After emerging from the intervertebral foramen, each spinal nerve gives off a small recurrent branch (ramus meningeus) which re-enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen and supplies the vertebrae and their hgaments, and the blood-vessels of the spinal cord and its membranes. It then splits into a posterior or dorsal, and an anterior or ventral division, each division containing fibres from both nerve roots. POSTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES The posterior primary divisions are as a rule smaller than the anterior. They are directed backwards and, with the exceptions of those of the first cervical, the fourth and fifth sacral, and the coccygeal, divide into internal and external branches (rami mediales et laterales) for the supply of the muscles and skin of the posterior part of the trunk. Cervical Nerves The posterior division of the first cervical or suboccipital nerve is larger than the anterior division, and emerges above the posterior arch of the atlas and beneath the vertebral artery. It enters the subocciiiital triangle and supphes the muscles which bound this space, viz. tlie Rectus capitis posticus major, the Obliquus superior, and the Obliquus inferior ; it gives branches also to the Rectus capitis posticus minor and the Complexus. A filament from the branch to the Obliquus inferior joins the second cervical nerve. The nerve also occasionally gives off a cutaneous branch which accompanies the occipital artery to the scalp, and communicates with the great and small occipital nerves. The posterior division of the second cervical nerve is much larger than the anterior division, and is the greatest of all the posterior cervical divisions. It emerges between the posterior arch of the atlas and the lamina of the axis, below the Inferior oblique. It supplies a twig to this muscle, receives a communicating filament from the first cervical, and then divides into a large internal and a small external branch. The internal branch, called from its size tlie great occipital nerve (n. occipitalis major) ascends obliquely inwards between the Obliquus inferior and the Complexus, and pierces the latter muscle and the Trapezius near then attach- ments to the occipital bone. It is now joined by a filameirt from the posterior division of the third cervical and, ascending on the back of the head with the occipital artery, divides into branches which communicate with the small occipital nerve and supply the skin of the scalp as far fonvard as tiie vertex of the skuU. It gives off muscular branches to the Complexus, and occasionally a twig to the back of the pinna. The external branch supplies filaments to the Splenius, Trachelo-mastoid and Complexus, and is often joined by the con-esponding branch of the third cervical. The posterior division of the third cervical is intermediate in size between those of the second and fourth. Its internal branch runs between the Complexus and Semispinalis, and piercing the Splenius and Trapezius, ends in the skin. While under the Trapezius it gives off a branch called the tMrd 3p