SEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE 927 The cervical branch (ramus colli) runs forwards beneath the Platysma, and forms a series of arches across the side of the neck over the suprahyoid region. One of the branches descends vertically to join with the superficial cervical nerve from the cervical plexus ; others supply the Platysma. Applied Anatomy.—Facial palsy is commonly unilateral, and may be either : (1) peri pheral, from lesion of the facial nerve ; (2) nuclear, from destruction of the facial nucleus ; or (3) central, cerebral, or supramiclear, from injury in the brain to the fibres passing from the cortex through the mterual capsule to the facial nucleus, or from injury to the face-area of the motor cortej itself. In supranuclear facial paralysis, which is usually part of a hemiplegia, it is the lower part of the face that is chiefly affected, wbile the forehead can be freely wTiiikled on the palsied side, the eye car be closed fairly well, and tbe eyeball is not rolled up under the upper lid ; emotional movements of the face are much better executed than voluntary ; and the electrical reactions of the muscles on the affected side are not altered. If the paralysis is due to lesion of the facial nucleus, the Orbicularis oris escapes, as the nuclear origin of the nerve to this muscle seems to be connected with that of the tongue-nerves ; otherwise the symptoms are identical with those of the common peripheral facial palsy, of which several types may be chstinguished according to the point in its course at which the facial nerve is injured. If the lesion occurs (a) ha the pons, facial paralysis is produced as m (</) below ; taste and bearing are not affected, but the sixth nerve also ^vill be paralysed because the fibres of the facial nerve loop round its nucleus in the pons. When the nerve is paralysed (li) in the petrous bone, in addition to the paralysis of the muscles of esjiression, there is loss of taste in the anterior part of the tongue, and the patient is unable to recognise the difference between bitters and sweets, acids and salines, from involvement of the chorda tympani. The mouth is dry, because the salivary glands are not secreting ; and the sense cf hearing is affected from paralysis of the Stapedius. When the cause of the jmralysis is (c) fracture of the base of the skull, the aurhtory and petrosal nerves are usually involved. But by far the commonest cause of facial palsy is (d) exposure of the nerve to cold or injury at or after its exit from the stylomastoid foramen (Bell's paralysis). Li these cases the face looks asymmetrical even when at rest, and more so m the old than in the yoimg. The affected side of the face and forehead remains motionless when voluntary or emotional movement is attempted. The lines on the forehead are smoothed out, the eye can be shut only by hand, tears fail to enter the lachrymal puncta because they are no longer in contact with the conjunctiva, the conjunctival reflex is absent, and efforts to close the eye merely cause the eyeball to roll upwards until the cornea hes under the upper hd. The tip of the nose is dra\TO over towards the sound side ; the naso-labial fold is partially obliterated on the affected side, and the ala nasi does not move properly on respiration. The hps remain in contact on the paralysed side, and cannot be put together for whistling ; when a smile is attempted the angle of the mouth is drawn up on the unaffected side ; on the affected side the hps remain nearly closed, and the mouth assumes a characteristic triangular form. Durmg mastication food accumulates in the cheek, from pai-alysis of the Buccinator, and dribbles or is pushed out from between the paralysed hps. On protrusion the tongiie seems to be thrust over towards the palsied side, but verification of its position by reference to the incisor teeth will show that this is not really so. The Platysma and the muscles of the pinna are paralysed ; in severe cases the articulation of labials is impaired. The electrical reactions of the affected muscles are altered (reaction of degeneration), and the degree to which this alteration has taken place after a week or ten days gives a valuable guide to the prognosis. Most cases of Bell's palsy recover completely. The facial nerve is at fault in cases of so-called ' histrionic spasm,' which consists in an almost constant and uncontrollable twitching of some or all of the muscles of the face. This t-witching is sometimes so severe as to cause great discomfort and annoyance to the patient, and to interfere with sleep, and for its rehef the facial nerve has been stretched. The operation is performed by making an incision behind the ear, from the root of the mastoid process to the angle of the jaw. The parotid is turned forwards and the dissec- tion carried along the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle and mastoid process, until the upper border of the posterior belly of the Digastric is found. The nerve is parallel to this on about the level of the middle of the mastoid process. When found, the nerve must be stretched by passmg a blunt hook beneath it and pulling it forwards and outwards. Too great force must not be used, for fear of permanent injury to the nerve. Eighth Nerve Jl'tie Eighth or Auditory nerve (n. acusticus) is the special nerve of the sense of hearing, being distributed exclusively to the internal ear. It consists of two sets of fibres, which, although differing in their central connections, are botli concerned in the transmission of afferent impulses from the internal ear to the meduUa and pons, and from there, by means of new fibres which arise from collections of grey matter in these structures, to the cerebrum and cerebellum.