669 MUSCLES AND OF THE THIGH and above, subdivided into separate portions, wliicl^ have received distinct names. Of these, one occupying the middle of the thigh, and connected above witli tlie iUum, is called the Rectus femoris, from its straight course. The other divisions lie in immediate connection with the shaft of the femur, which they cover from the trochanters to the condyles. The portion on the outer side of the femur is termed the Vastus exiernus ; that covering the inner side, the Vastus interims ; and that in front, the Crureus. The Rectus femoris is situated in the middle of the anterior region of the tliigh ; it is fusiform in shape, and its superficial fibres are arranged in a bipenni- form manner, the deep fibres running straight do\\ n to the deep aponeurosis. It arises by two tendons : one, the anterior or straight, from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium ; the other, the posterior or reflected tendon, from a groove above the brim of the acetabulum. The two unite at an acute angle, and spread into an aponeurosis which is prolonged doM n- M'ards on the anterior surface of the muscle, and from this the muscular fibres arise. The muscle terminates in a broad and thick aponeurosis, wliich occupies the lower two-thirds of its jjosterior surface, and, gradually becoming narrowed into a flattened tendon, is inserted into the patella in common with the Vasti and Crureus. The Vastus externus (m. vastus lateralis) is the largest part of the Quad- riceps extensor. It arises by a broad aponeurosis, which is attached to the upper part of the anterior intertrochanteric line, to the anterior and inferior border of the root of the gi'eat trochanter, to the outer lip of the gluteal ridge, and to the upper half of the outer lip of the linea aspera : this aponeurosis covers the upper three-fom-ths of the muscle, and from its inner surface many fibres take origin. A few additional fibres arise from the tendon of the Gluteus maximus, and from the external intermuscular septum between the Vastus externus and short head of the Biceps. The fibres form a large fleshy mass, which is attached to a strong aponeurosis, placed on the under surface of the muscle at its lower part : this becomes contracted and thickened into a flat tendon inserted into the outer border of the i^atella, blending with the Quadriceps extensor tendon, and giving an expansion to the capsule of the knee-joint. The Vastus internus and Crureus appear to be inseparably united, but when the Rectus femoris has been reflected a narrow interval will be observed extending upwards from the inner border of the patella between the two muscles. Here they can be separated, and the separation may be continued upwards as far as the lower part of the anterior intertrochanteric line, where, however, the two muscles are frequently continuous. The Vastus internus (m. vastus medialis) arises from the lower half of the anterior intertrochanteric line, the spiral line, the inner lip of the linea aspera, the upper part of the internal supracondylar line, the tendons of the Adductor longus and Adductor magnus and tlie internal intermuscular septum. Its fibres are directed downwards and forwards, and are chiefly attached to an aponeurosis which lies on the deep surface of the muscle and is inserted into the inner border of the patella and the Quadriceps extensor tendon, an expansion being sent to the capsule of the knee-joint. The Crureus (m. vastus intermedins) arises from the front and outer aspect of the shaft of the femur in its upper two-thirds and from the lower part of the external intermuscular septum. Its fibres end in a superficial aponeurosis, which forms the deep part of the Quadriceps extensor tendon. The tendons of the difi^erent portions of the Quadriceps extensor unite at the lower part of the thigh, so as to form a single strong tendon, which is inserted into the upper part of the patella, some'feAv fibres passing over it to blend with the ligamentum patellae. More properly, the patella may be regarded as a sesamoid bone, developed in the tendon of the Quadi'iceps ; and the ligamentum patella, which is continued from the lower part of the patella to the tuberosity of the tibia, as the proper tendon of insertion of the muscle, the lateral patellar ligaments (see page 430) being fascial expansions froin its borders. A synovial bursa, wliich usually communicates with the cavity of the knee-joint, is situated between, the femur and the portion of the Quadj-ieeps extensor tendon above the patella ; another is interposed between the tendon and the upper part of the front of the tibia ; and a third,