SPLANCHNOLOGY 1200 dilatabilifcy, calculi and foreign bodies and new growths, when of small size, may be removed by the m-ethrai route. Suprapubic cystotomy is perl'oi'med by first injecting ten or twelve ounces of some weak antiseptic fluid into the bladder. Then, with or without distending the rectum, a vertical median incision, from three to fom- inches in length, is made in tlie hypo- gastric region immediately above the symphysis, and extended between the Pyramidales and Recti muscles until the transversalis fascia is reached. This is divided and some fatty tissue exposed (space of Retzius). Upon separating this, the anterior surface of the bladder will be exposed and will be recognised by its muscular fibres. A needle should be passed through its coats on either side of the spot selected for the opening, and two long pieces of silk inserted. The bladder is incised between these staj's, ^^■hich are held by an assistant and form a useful guide to the opening in the bladder when the fluid has escaped. It is imj)ortant that the bladder should be emptied by catheter as a routine measure in women, prior to operations on the lower part of the abdomen or pelvis. Neglect of this precaution has, not uncommonly, led to that viscus being opened by accident. Women especially are apt to acquii-e an atonic distension of the bladder, and the fact that some quantity of lu-ine has been passed immediately before operation is no guarantee that the viscus is not distended. If the accident should occm-, the bladder wall must be carefulh' sutured before the peritoneum is opened. The Male Ueethra The male urethra (urethra virihs) extends from the neck of the bladder to the meatus urinarius at the end of the penis. It presents a double curve in the ordinary relaxed state of the penis (fig. 992). Its length varies from seven to eight inches ; and it is divided into three portions, the 'prostatic, membranous, .^^jtt and _s^£gngy, the structure and relations of which are essentially different. Except during the passage of the urine or semen, the urethra is a mere trans- verse cleft or slit, wdth its uj)per and under surfaces in contact. At the meatus urinarius the sht is vertical, and in the prostatic portion somewhat arched. The prostatic portion (pars prostatica) (figs. 992, 999), the widest and most dilatable part of the canal, is about an inch and a quarter in length. It runs almost vertically through the prostate gland, from its base to its apex, lying nearer its anterior than its posterior surface ; the form of the canal is spindle-shaped, being -voider in the middle than at either extremity, and narrowest below, where it joins the membranous portion. A transverse section of the canal as it hes in the prostate is horseshoe-shaped, the convexity being directed forwards, since the direction of the canal is nearh^ vertical. Upon the posterior wall or floor is a narrow longitudinal ridge, the veru- montanum, or caput gallinaginis (crista urethrahs), formed by an elevation of the mucous membrane and its subjacent tissue. It is from 15 to 17 mm. in length, and about 3 mm. in height, and contains, according to Kobelt. muscular and erectile tissues. When distended, it may serve to prevent the passage of the semen backwards into the bladder. On either side of the veru- montanum is a sHghtly depressed fossa, the prostatic sinus, the floor of which is perforated by numerous apertures, the orifices of the prostatic ducts from the lateral lobes of the prostate gland ; the ducts of the middle lobe open behind the verumontanum. At the fore-part of the verumontanum, in the middle Une, is a depression, the sinus pocularis (utriculus prostaticus), upon or ^^•ithin the margins of which are the sht-like openings of the ejaculatory ducts. The sinus pocularis forms a cul-de-sac about a quarter of an inch in length, which runs upwards and backwards in the substance of tlie prostate behind tlie middle lobe ; its prominent anterior wall partly forms the verumontanum. Its walls are composed of fibrous tissue, muscular fibres, and mucous mem- brane, and numerous small glands open on its inner surface. It has been called by Weber, who discovered it, the utertis masculi7ius. from its benig developed from the united lower ends of the atrophied Miillerian ducts, and therefore homologous witli tlic uterus and vagina in the female. The membranous portion (pars inembranacea) (figs. 992, 999) extends between the apex of the prostate and the bulb of the .corpus ppoiigiQsum. It is the narrowest part of the canal (excepting tiic meatus), and measures three- quarters of an inch along its upper, but only half an inch along its lower .surface, in consequence of the bulb ]jrojecting backwards beneath it. Its anterior concave surface is placed about an incli below and behind the pubic