AJS(J1UL0GY the blood contained in the portal vein passes thiougli two sets of capillary vessels : (1) tliose in the spleen, pancreas, stomach, &c., and (2) those in the liver. Speaking generally, the arteries may be said to contain pure, and the veins impure, blood. Tliis is true of the systemic, but not of the pulmonary vessels, since it has been seen that the impure blood is conveyed from the heart to the lungs by the pulmonary arteries, and the pure blood returned from the lungs to the heart by the pulmonary veins. Arteries, therefore, must be defined as vessels which convey blood from the heart, and veins as vessels w hich return blood to the heart. The heart and lungs are situated in the thorax, the walls of which afford them protection. The heart lies bet\veen the two lungs, and is enclosed within a membranous bag, the 'pericardium, while eacli lung is invested by a serous membrane, the pleura. The skeleton of the thorax, and the shape and boundaries of tlie cavity, have already been described (page 202). The cavity of the thorax.—The capacity of the cavity of the thorax does not correspond Avitli its apparent size extei-nally, because (1) the space enclosed by the lower ribs is occuiDied by some of the abdominal viscera ; and (2) the cavity extends above the first rib into the neck. The size of the thoracic cavity is constantly varying during life with the movements of the ribs and Diaphragm, and with the degree of distension of the abdominal viscera. From the collapsed state of the lungs as seen when the thorax is opened in the dead body, it would appear as if the viscera only partly filled the cavity, but during life there is no vacant space, that which is seen after death being filled up by the expanded lungs. The upper opening of the thorax.—The parts which pass through the upper opening of the thorax are, from before backwards in or near the middle line, the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyi'oid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, the inferior thyroid veins, the trachea, oesophagus, thoracic duct, and the Longus colli muscles ; at the sides, the innominate artery, the left coinmon carotid and left subclavian arteries, the internal mammar3'- and superior inter- costal arteries, the innominate veins, the pneumogastric, cardiac, phi-enic, and sympathetic nerves, the greater part of the anterior primary divisions of the fijst thoracic nerves, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the left side. The apex of each lung, covered by the pleura, also projects through this aperture, a little above the level of the anterior end of the first rib. The lower opening of the thorax is wider transversely than from before backwards. It slopes obliquely downwards and backwards, so that the thoracic cavity is much deeper behind than in front. The Diaphragm (see page 501) closes the opening and forms the floor of the thorax. The floor is flatter at the centre than at the sides, and higher on the right side than on the left; in the dead bodv the right side reaches the level of the upper border of the fifth costal cartilage, while the left extends only to the corresponding part of the sixth costal cartilage. From the highest point on each side the floor slopes suddenly downwards to the costal and vertebral attachments of the Diaphragm ; this slope is more marked behind than in front, so that only a narrow space is left between the Diaphragm and the posterior wall of the thorax. The Pericardium The Pericardium (fig. 560) is a conical fibro-serous sac, in which the heart and the roots of the great vessels are contained. It is placed behind the sternum and the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs of the left side, in the mterval between the pleura;. In front, it is separated from the anterior wall of the thorax, m the greater part of its extent, by the lungs and pleura- ; but a small area somewhat variable in size, and usually corresponding with the left half of the lower portion of the gladiolus of the sternum and the inner extremities ot the cartilages of the fourtli and fifth ribs of the left side, comes into direct relation- ship with the chest-wall. The lower extremity of the thymus gland, m tlie child, is in contact with the front of the ui)pcr part of the pericardium. Behind, it rests upon the bronchi, tlie crsophagus, and the descending thoracic aorta. Laleralh/, it is covered by the pleura?, and is in relation with tlie umci