1247 SUPRAEENAL GLANDS Vessels and Nerves.-- The arteries supplying the suprarenal glands are numerous and of comparatively large size ; tliey arc derived from the aorta, the inferior phrenic, and the renal. They subdivide into minute brandies previous to entering the cortical part of the gland, where they break up into capillaries which end in the venous plexus of the medullary portion. The mfrarenal vein returns the blood from the medullary venous plexus and receives several branches from the cortical substance ; it emerges from the liilus of the gland and on the right side opens into the inferior vena cava, on the left into the renal vein. The lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are exceedingly numerous, and are derived from the solar and renal plexuses, and, according to Bergmann, from the Fig. 1032.—Section of a part of a suprarenal gland. (Magnified.) Capsule Zona gtomerulosa Z ona fasciculata Zona reticidaris Multi-niLcleated mass of protoplasm /Medulla Ganglion phrenic and pneumogastric nerves They enter the lower and inner part of the capsule, traverse the cortex, and terminate around the cells of the medulla. They have numerous small ganglia developed upon them, from which circumstance the organ has been conjectured to liave some function in connection with the sympathetic nervous system. Applied Anatomy.—^The suprarenal cortex is derived from the coelomic epithehum of the Wolffian ridge, and is connected with the sexual glands ; it is related to growth and develop- ment in some way, and is often found to be hypertrophied in patients with clu'onic kidney disease and high blood- pressure. The medulla, on the other hand, is neuro-ectodermal in origin, and closely connected with the sym- pathetic nervous system. It supplies the body with an internal secretion called adrenalin, that tends to raise the blood-pressure by stimulating the vaso - constrictor fibres of the sym- patlietic. When the suprarenal medulla is destroyed by tuberculosis, to which the glands are prone, or by the pressure of a new growth, the secretion of adi-enalin becomes inadequate, and Addison's disease develops. Patients with Addison's disease become pigmented in various parts of the body, possibly from u-ritation of the sympathetic, and complain of great weakness, lack of energy, nausea, and severe attacks of vomiting. Their blood-pressure is low, the whole nervous system is depressed, and death follows after a period of months or years, usually from asthenia. Tumours derived from the suprarenal itself, or from misplaced suprarenal ' rests ' occurring in such organs as the kidney or Uver, may be either benign or malignant, and are classed together under the name ' hypernephroma.' In childi-en the malignant hypernepliroina IS often associated vnth obesity and precocity. The benign hypernephroma, or suprarenal adenoma, appears to produce no symptoms except those due to its slow enlargement. The carotid bodies, two in number, are situated one on eitlier side of the neck, behind the common carotid artery at its point of bifurcation into the external and internal carotid trunks. They are reddish-brown in colour and oval m shape, the long diameter measuring about one-fifth of an inch Each IS invested by a fibrous capsule and consists largely of spherical or irregular masses of cells—the masses being more or less isolated from one another by septa which extend inwards from the deep surface of the capsule. The cells are polyhedral m shape, and each contains a large nucleus imbedded in finely granular protoplasm which is stained yellow by chromic salts. Numerous nerve-hbres, derived from the sympathetic plexus on the carotid artery, are distributed throughout the organ, and a network of large capillaries ramifies amongst the cells. The coccygeal body or gland of Luschka is placed in front of, or imme- diately below, the tip of the coccyx. It is about the size of a millet-seed and IS irregularly oval m shape ; several smaller nodules arc found around or near the main mass. It consists of irregular masses of round or polyhedral cells