TENTH CRANIAL NERVE 935 joining the left side of the solar plexus, and sending filaments to the splenic plexus and a considerable branch to the coehac plexus. ^i, i jr. On the left side, the pneumogastric nerve enters the chest between the iett carotid and subclavian arteries, behind the left innominate vein. It crosses the arch of the aorta, and descends behind the root of the left lung, forming the voslerior pulmonary plexus. From this it runs along the anterior surface of the oesophagus, where it unites with the nerve of the right side m forming the plexus gulce, and is continued to the stomach, distributing branches over its anterior surface ; some of these extend over the fundus, and others along the lesser curvature. Filaments from these branches enter the gastro-hepatic omentum, and join the hepatic plexus. , . i . j. i, 4. The gang-lion of the root is of a greyish colour, spherical m form, about one sixth of an inch ia diameter. , • p . 1 Branches of communication.—To this ganghon the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve is cormected by several delicate filaments ; it also communicates by a twdg with the petrous ganghon of the glosso-pharyugeal, with the facial nerve by means of its auricular branch, and with the sympathetic by means of an ascending filament from the superior cervical ganglion. 1 • r The ganglion of the trunk is a plexiform cord, cyUndrical m form, ot a reddish colour, and about an mch m length ; it mvolves the whole of the fibres of the nerve. Passmg through it is the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve, which blends with the pneumogastric below the ganghon. Branches of commtmication.—This ganghon is connected with the hypo- glossal, the superior cervical ganghon of the sympathetic, and the loop between the first and second cervical nerves. Branches of distribution.—The branches of the pneumogastric are : T .1- • 1 * J Meningeal. In the jugular fossa . . • | Auricular. Pharyngeal. T ,, 1 Superior laryngeal. In the neck Recurrent laryngeal. Cervical cardiac. Thoracic cardiac. Anterior pulmonary, j Posterior pulmonary. ( (Esophageal. In the abdomen .... Gastric. In the thorax . . . . { The meningeal branch (ramus meniageus) is a recurrent filament given off from the ganghon of the root in the jugular foramen. It passes backwards, through the jugular foramen, and is distributed to the dura mater covering the posterior fossa of the base of the skuU. The auricular branch (ramus auricularis), or nerve of Ai-nold, arises from the ganghon of the root, and is joined soon after its origin by a filament from the petrous ganghon of the glosso-pharyngeal; it passes outwards behind the jugular vein, and enters a small canal on the outer wall of the jugular fossa. Traversing the substance of the temporal bone, it crosses the aqueductus FaUoph about one-sixth of an inch above the stylo-mastoid foramen, and here it gives off an ascending branch which joins the facial. The continuation of the nerve reaches the surface by passing through the auricular fissure between the mastoid process and the tympanic plate, and divides into two branches, one of which communicates with the posterior auricular nerve, while the other supphes the integument at the back part of the pinna and the posterior part of the external auditory meatus. The pharyngeal branch (ramus pharyngeus), the principal motor nerve of the pharynx, arises from the upper part of the ganghon of the trunk. It consists priacipaUy of fUaments from the accessory j)ortion of the spinal accessory ; it passes across the internal carotid artery to the uj)per border of the IVliddle constrictor, where it divides into numerous filaments, which join ■with those from the glosso-pharyngeal, sympathetic, and external laryngeal to form the pharyngeal plexus. From the plexus, branches are distributed to