1185 THE KIDNEYS similar in Fia. 981.—Plan of uriniferous tubes. of the kidney, and consist of a series of outward prolongations from the base of each medullary pyi-amid. The cortical and medullary parts, so dissimilar in appearance, are very structure, being made up of m-inary tubes and blood-vessels, united and bound together by a connecting stroma. Minute Anatomy.—^The iubuli uriniferi (tubuli renales), of which the kidney is for the most jjart made up, commence in the cortical portion of the kidney, and after pursuing a very cir- cuitous course through the cortical and medul- lary parts, finally terminate at the apices of the medullary p5'ramids by open mouths (fig. 981), so that the fluid which they contain is emptied, through the calj'ces, into the pelvis of the kidney. If the sm-face of one of the papillfe be examined with a lens, it will be seen to be studded over %vith minute openings, the orifices of the tubuli uriniferi, from sixteen to twenty in number, and if pressm-e be made on a fresh kidney, m-ine wall be seen to exude from these orifices. The tubuli luiniferi commence in the labyrinth and cortical columns of the kidney as the Malpighian bodies, which are small rounded masses of a deep red colour, varjdng in size, but of an average of about jJn of an inch in diameter. Each of these little bodies is composed of two parts : a central glomerulus of vessels, called a Malpighian tuft; and a membranous envelope, the Malpighian capsule, or capsule of Botmnan, which is the small pouch-like commencement of a uriniferous tubule. The Malpighian tuft, or vascular glomerulus, is a network of convoluted capUlarj' blood- vessels, held together by scanty connective tissue. This capillary network is derived from a small arterial twig, the afferent vessel, which pierces the wall of the capsule, generally at a point opposite to that at which the latter is con- nected with the tube ; and the resulting vein, the efferent vessel, emerges from the capsule at the same point. The afferent vessel is usually the larger of the two (fig. 982). The Malpighian, or Bomnan's capsule, which sm'rounds the glomerulus, is formed of a hyahne membrane, supported by a small amoimt of connective tissue, which is continuous with the connective tissue of the tube. It is lined on its inner surface by a layer of squamous epithelial cells. A A. Malpighian bodies. B B. Margin of medullary structure. 0 0 0. Loops o£ Henle. D D D. Straiglit tubes cut oil. B. Oommencing straight tubes. F. Termination of straight tube. which are reflected from the lining membrane on to the glomerulus, at the point of entrance or exit of the afferent and efferent vessels. The whole sm-face of the glomerulus is covered with a continuous layer of the same cells, on a delicate supporting membrane (fig. 983). Thus between the glomerulus and the capsule a space is left, forming a cavity lined by a 4»