792 ANGIOLOGY The posterior mediastinal glands (lymphoglandulae mediastinales posteriores) lie behind the pericardium in relation to the oesophagus and descending thoracic aorta. Tiieir aft'erents are derived from the cesophagus, the posterior part of the pericardium, the Diaphragm, and the convex surface of the liver. Their efferents mostly terminate in the thoracic duct, but some join the tracheo-bronchial glands. The tracheo-bronchial glands (fig. 670) form three main groups in relation to the bifurcation of the trachea—one on either side of the trachea above the bronchi, and one in the angle .between the bronchi (lymphoglandulae tracheales) ; other glands, termed interbranchial (lymphoglandulae bronchiales), are found at the points of division of the larger bronchi. The afferents of the tracheo-bronchial glands drain the lungs and bronchi, the thoracic part of the trachea and the heart; some of the efferents of the posterior mediastmal glands also terminate in this group. Their efferent vessels ascend upon the trachea and unite with efferents of the internal mammary and anterior mediastinal glands to form the right and left broncho-mediastinal trunks. The right broncho-mediastinal trunk may join the right lymphatic duct, and the left the thoracic duct, but more frequently they open independently of these ducts into the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins of their own side. Apflied Anatomy.—In all town-dwellers there are continually being swept into these glands from the bronchi and alveoli large quantities of the dust and black carbonaceous pigment that are so freely inhaled in cities. At first the glands are moderately enlarged, firm, inky black and gritty on section ; later they enlarge still fui'ther, often becoming fibrous from the irritation set up by the minute foreign bodies with which they are crammed, and may break down into a soft slimy mass or may calcify. In tuberculosis of the lungs these glands are practically always infected ; they enlarge, being filled with tuberculous deposits that may soften, or become fibrous, or calcify. Not infrequently an enlarged tuberculous gland perforates into a bronchus, discharging its contents into the tube. When this happens there is great danger of acute pulmonary tuberculosis, the infecting gland-substance being rapidly spread throughout the bronchial system by the coughing its presence in the air-passages excites. The lymphatic vessels of the thoracic viscera consist of those of the heart and pericardium, lungs and pleura, thymus, and oesophagus. The lymphatic vessels of the heart consist of two plexuses, (a) deep, immediately under the endocardium, and (6) superficial, subjacent to the visceral pericardium. The deep plexus opens into the superficial, the efferents of which form right and left collecting trunks. The left trunks, two or three in number, ascend in the anterior interventricular furrow, receiving, m then- course, afferents from both ventricles. On reaching the auriculo-ventricular furrow they are joined by a large trunk from the back of the heart, and then unite to form a single vessel which ascends between the pubuonary artery and the left auricle and ends m one of the tracheo-bronchial glands. The right trunk receives its afferents from the right auricle and from the right border and posterior surface of the right ventricle. It ascends in the posterior auriculo-ventricular groove and then runs fom^ard m the auriculo-ventricular groove, and passes up behmd the pulmonary artery, to end m one of the tracheo-bronchial glands. The lymplmlic vessels of the lungs originate in two plexuses, a superhcial and a deep. The superficial plexus is placed beneath the viscej-al pleura. The deep accompanies the branches of the pulmonary vessels and the rami- fications of the bronchi. In the case of the larger bronchi the deep plexus consists of two networks, one, submucous, beneath the mucous membrane, and another, peribronchial, outside the walls of the bronchi. In the smaUer bronchi there is but a single plexus, which extends as far as the bronchioles but fails to reach the alveoli, in the walls of M'hich there are no traces oi lymi)hatic vessels. The su]jerficial efferents turn round the borders of thr lungs and the margins of their fissures, and converge to end in some glamN situated at the hUus ; the deep efferents are conducted to ^'^-^ '!'\"^,"^"^ the pulmonary vessels and bronchi, and end in the tracheo-bronchial glan K Little or no anastomosis occurs between the superficial and deep lymphatics of the lungs, except in the region of the hilus.