67 THE SKIN deeper or reticular layer, and the superficial or papillary layer. Unstriped muscular fibres are found in the superficial layers of the corium, wherever hairs are present; and in the subcutaneous areolar tissue of the scrotum, penis, labia majora, and nipples. In the nipples the fibres are disposed in bands, closely reticulated and arranged in superimposed laminae. The reticular layer consists of strong interlacing fibrous bands, composed chiefly of the white variety of fibrous tissue, but also containing some fibres of yellow elastic tissue, which vary in number in different parts ; and connective tissue corpuscles, which are often to be fomid flattened against the white fibrous tissue bundles. Towards the attached surface the fascicuh are large and coarse, and the areolae which are left by their interlacement are large, and occupied by adipose tissue and sweat-glands. Below this the elements of the sldu become gradually blended with the subcutaneous areolar tissue, which, except in a few situations, contains fat. Towards the free surface the fasciculi are much finer, and their mode of interlacing close and intricate. The papillary layer is situated upon the free surface of the reticular layer ; it consists of numerous small, highly sensitive, and vascular eminences, the papillce, which rise perpendicularly from its surface. The papillae are minute conical eminences, having romid or blunted extremities, occasionally divided into two or more parts, and are received into corresponding pits on the under surface of the cuticle. Their average length is about pVir of an inch, and the diameter of the base TTSo of inch. On the general surface of the body, more especially in those parts which are endowed with sUght sensibiUty, they are few in numbei-, short, exceedingly minute, and irregularly scattered over the surface ; but in some situations, as upon the palmar surface of the hands and fingers, upon the plantar surface of the feet and toes, and aromid the nipple, they are long, of large size, closely aggregated together, and arranged in parallel curved Unes, forming the elevated ridges seen on the free surface of the epidermis. Each ridge contains two rows of papillae, and between the two rows the ducts of the sweat-glands pass outwards to open on the summit of the ridge. In structure each papilla consists of very small and closely interlacing bundles of finely fibrillated tissue, with a few elastic fibres ; within this tissue is a capillary loop, and in some papillae, especially in the palms of the hands and the fingers, there are tactile corpuscles. The arteries supplying the sldn form a network in the subcutaneous tissue, from which branches are given off to supply the sweat-glands, the hair-folhcles, and the fat. Other branches are given off which constitute a plexus immediately beneath the corium ; from this, fine capillary vessels pass into the papillae, forming, in the smaller ones, a single capillary loop, but in the larger, a more or less con- voluted vessel. There are numerous lymphatics supphed to the skin, which form two networks, superficial and deep, commimicating with each other and with those of the subcutaneous tissue by oblique branches. The nerves of the skin terminate partly in the epidermis and partly in the cutis vera. The former are prolonged into the epidermis from a dense plexus in the superficial layer of the corium and terminate between the cells in bulbous extremities ; or, according to some observers, in cup-shaped endings in which are lodged certain of the deeper cells of the Malpighian layer, termed tactile cells; these are especially well seen in the skin covering the pig's snout. The latter terminate in end-bulbs, touch-corpuscles, or Pacinian bodies, in the manner already described ; and, in addition to these, a considerable number of fibrils are distributed to the hair-foUicles, which are said to entwine the follicle in a circular manner. Other nerve-fibres are supphed to the plain muscular fibres of the hair-folUcles (arrectores pilorum) and to the muscular coats of the blood-vessels. These are probably non-medullated fibres. The appendages of the skin are the nails, the hairs, and the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands with their ducts. The nails and hairs are peculiar modifications of the epidermis, consisting essentially of the same cellular structure as that tissue. The nails (fig. 86) are flattened, elastic structures of a horny texture, placed upon the dorsal surfaces of the terminal phalanges of the fingers and toes. Each nail is convex on its outer surface, concave within, and is implanted by a P^^'*"*'^' called the root, into a groove in the sldn ; the exposed portion is called the body, and the distal extremity the free edge. The nail is firmly adherent to the dermis, being accurately moulded upon its surface, like the epidermis in other F 2