1198 SPLANCHNOLOGY or three nuclei; beneath these is a stratum of large club-shaped cells, with their narrow extremities directed downwards and wedged in between smaller spindle-shaped cells. Fig. 997.—Superficial layer of the epi- tlieliimi of the bladder. Composed of polyhedral cells of various sizes, each with one, two, or three nuclei. (Klein and Noble Smith.) Fig. 998.—Deep layers of the ejiithelium of the bladder, shovNing large club- shaped cells above, and smaller, more spindle-shaped cells below, each with an oval nucleus. (Klein and Noble Smith.) containing oval nuclei (figs. 997, 998). There are no true glands in the mucous membrane of the bladder, though certain mucous follicles which exist, especially near the neck of the bladder, have been regarded as such. Interior of the bladder.—The mucous membrane lining the bladder is, over the greater part of the viscus, loosely attached to the muscular coat, and appears wrinkled or folded when the bladder is contracted : in the dis- tended condition of the bladder the folds are effaced. Over a small triangular area, termed the trigonum vesicce, immediately above and behind the orifice of the urethra, the mucous membrane is firmly boimd to the muscular coat, and is always smooth. Tlie anterior angle of the trigonum vesicae is formed by the opening of the urethra : its postero-lateral angles by the orifices of the ureters. Stretching beliind the latter openings is a sUghtly curved ridge, the torus uretericus, forming the base of the trigone and produced by an under- lying bundle of non-striped muscular fibres. The lateral parts of this ridge extend beyond the openings of the ureters, and are named the plicae uretericce ; they are produced by the terminal portions of the ureters as they traverse obHquely the bladder-wall. When the bladder is illuminated the torus uretericus appears as a pale band and forms an important guide during the operation of introducing a catheter into the ureter. The orifices of the ureters are placed at the postero-lateral angles of the trigonum vesicae, and are usually sHt-hke in form. In the contracted bladder they are about an inch apart and about the same distance from the orifice of the urethra ; in the distended viscus these measurements may be increased to about two inches. The urethral orifice is placed at the apex of the trigonum vesicae, and is usually somewhat crescentic in form; the mucous membrane immediately behind it presents a slight elevation, named the uvula vesicce. Vessels and Nerves,—The arteries supplying the bladder are the superior, middle, and inferior vesical, derived from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac. The obturator and sciatic arteries also supply small visceral branches to the bladder, and in the female additional branches arc derived from the uterine and vaginal arlerics. The veins form a complicated plexus round the neck, sides, and base of the bladder, and terminate in the internal iliac veins. The lymphatics are described on page 788. The nerves are derived from the pelvic plexuses of the sympathetic and from the third and fourth sacral nerves ; tiie former supplying the upper ])art of the organ, the latter its base and neck. According to F. Darwin, the sympathetic fibres have ganglia connected with them, which send branches to the vessels and muscular coat. Surface Form.—The surface forui of the bladder varies with its degree of distension and under other circumstances. In the young child it is rej)resented by a conical figure, the apex of which, even when the viscus is enii)ty, is situated in the hypogastric region, aljove the level of (he .symphysis pubis. In the adult, when the bladder is empty, its apex does not reach above the level of the \\\)\ter border of the symphj^sis pubis, and the