MYOLOGY 586 and from the intermuscular septa separating it from the adjacent muscles on the front and back part of the leg. The fibres pass vertically downwards, and terminate in a tendon which runs in front of that of the preceding muscle, through the same groove behind the external malleolus, in the same fibrous sheath, and lubricated by the same synovial membrane. It then passes tlirougli a separate sheath on the outer side of the os calcis, above that for the tendon of the Peroneus longus, the two tendons being here separated bj'^ the peroneal tubercle, and is finally inserted into the tuberosity at the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, on its outer side. Nerves.—The Peronei longus et brevis are supplied by the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves through the niusculo-cutaneous branch of the external poi^liteal nerve. Actions.—The Peronei longus et brevis extend the foot upon the leg, in conjunction with the Tibialis posticus, antagonising the TibiaUs auticus and Peroneus tertius, which are flexors of the foot. The Peroneus longus also everts the sole of the foot, and from the oblique direction of the tendon across the sole of the foot is an important agent in the maintenance of the transverse arch. Taking their fixed points below, the Peronei serve to steady the leg upon the foot. This is especially the case in standing upon one leg, when the tendency of the super- incumbent weight is to throw the leg inwards: the Peroneus longus overcomes this tendency by drawing on the outer side of the leg, and thus maintains the perpendicular direction of the limb. Applied Anatomy.—The student should now consider the position of the tendons of the various muscles of the leg, their relation with the ankle-joiat and surrounding blood- vessels, and especially their actions upon the foot, as their rigidity and contraction give rise to one or other of the kinds of deformity loiown as club fool. The most simple and common deformity, and one that is rarely, if ever, congenital, is talipes equinus, the heel being raised by rigidity and contraction of the Gastrocnemius so that the patient walks upon the haU of the foot. In talipes varus, the foot is forcibly adducted and the inner side of the sole raised, sometimes to a right angle with the ground, by the action of the Tibiales anticus and posticus. In talipes valgus, the outer edge of the foot is raised by the Peronei, and the patient walks on the inner anlde. In talipes calcaneus tlie toes are raised by the Extensor muscles, the heel is depressed and the patient walks upon it. Other varieties of deformity are met with, as talipes equinovanis, equinovalgm, and calcaneovalgus, whose names sufficiently indicate their nature. Of these, taUpes equinovarus is the most common congenital form ; the heel is raised by the tendo AchiUis, the inner border of the foot di-awn upwards by the TibiaUs anticus, the anterior two-thirds twisted inwards by the TibiaUs posticus, and the arch increased by the con- traction of the plantar fascia, so that the patient walks on the middle of the outer border of the foot. Each of these deformities may sometimes be successfully reUeved by di\Tsion of the opposing tendons and fascia: by this means the foot regains its proper position, and the tendons heal by the organisation of lymph thro-mi out between the divided ends. The operation is easily performed by puttmg the contracted tendon upon the stretch, and dividing it by means of a narrow, sharp-pointed knife inserted beneath it. Rupture of a few of the fibres of the Gastrocnemius, or rupture of the Plantans tendon, not uncommonlv occurs, especiaUy in men somewhat advanced m life, from some sudden exertion, and frequently occurs during the game of lawn tennis, and is hence known as ' lawn-tennis leg.' Tlie accident is accompanied by a sudden pain, and produces a sensation as if the mdividual had been struck a violent blow on the part. The tendo AchiUis is also sometimes ruptured. It is stated that John Hunter ruptured his tendo Achillis while dancing, at the age of forty. The bursa beneath the tendo Achillis, between it and tue posterior surface of the os"calcis, sometimes becomes inflamed, especiaUy m pedestrians and ' long-distance ' walkers. It causes great and disabUng pain, and entirely prevents the sufferer from continuing his walk. IV. Muscles and Fasci.=e of the Foot The fibrous bands, or thickened portions of the fascia of the leg, which bind dovra tlio tendons in front of and behind the ankle in their passage to the foot, are termed tiic annular ligaments, and are three in number—anterior, internal and external. The anterior annular ligament (fig. 546) consists of a superior or tran>^ verse portion, which binds down the Extensor tendons as they descend on the front of the tibia and fibula ; and an inferior or Y-shnped portion, whi.' retains them in connection with the tarsus, the two portions being joino bv a thin intervening laver of fascia. The transverse por ion is attnchr i externaUy to the lower end of the fibula and internally to the tibia ; abo^i.