MAXILLA 245 projects into the cavity as a well-marked ridge whicli passes downwards and inw ards from the roof "to tlie anterior wall ; additional ridges are sometimes seen in the posterior wall of the cavity, and are caused by the posterior dental canals. The size of the cavity varies in different skulls, and even on the two sides of the same skull. Aldren Tui-ner {op. cit.) gives the following measurements as those of an average-sized antrum : vertical height opposite first molar tooth, 1^ in. ; transverse breadth, 1 in. ; and antero-posterior depth, in. Applied Anatomy.—The extreme thinness of the walls of this cavity affords an explanation of the fact that a trnnour growing from the antrum and encroaching iipon the adjacent parts may push up the floor of the orbit, and chsplace the eyeball ; may project inwards into the nose; may protrude forwards on to the cheek; or may make its way backwards into the zygomatic fossa, or downwards into the mouth. The zygomatic or malar process (processus zygomaticus) is a rough triangular eminence, situated at the angle of separation of the facial, zygomatic, and orbital surfaces. In front it forms part of the facial surface ; behind, it is concave, and forms part of the zygomatic fossa ; above, it is rough and seiTated for articulation with the malar bone ; while below, it presents a prominent arched border which marks the division between the facial and zygomatic surfaces. The frontal or nasal process (processus frontalis) is a strong plate, which projects upwards, in\vards, and backwards, by the side of the nose, forming part of its lateral boundary. Its external surface is smooth, continuous with the facial aspect of the body, and gives attachment to the Levator labii superioris alseque nasi, the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and the Tendo oculi. Its internal surface forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa ; at its upper part is a rough, uneven area, which articulates with the ethmoid bone, closing in the anterior ethmoidal cells ; below this is an oblique ridge, the superior turbinated crest (crista ethmoidalis), the posterior end of which articulates M^ith the middle turbinated process of the ethmoid, while the anterior part is termed the agger nasi ; the crest forms the upper limit of the atrium of the middle meatus. Its upper border articulates with the frontal and its anterior with the nasal; its posterior border is tliick, and hollowed into a groove, which is continuous below with the lachrymal groove on the inner surface of the body : by the articulation of the inner margin of the groove ^^ ith the anterior border of the lachrymal a corresponding groove on the lachrymal is brought into continuity, and together they form the lachrymal fossa for the lodgment of the lachrymal sac. The outer margin of the groove is named the crista lacrimalis anterior, and is continuous below with the orbital margin ; at its junction with the orbital surface is a small tubercle, the lachrymal tubercle, which serves as a guide to the position of the lachrymal sac in the operation for fistula lacrimalis. The alveolar process (processus alveolaris) is the thickest and most spongy part of the bone. It is broader behind than in front, and excavated into deep cavities for the reception of the teeth. These cavities are eight in number, and vary iu size and depth according to the teeth they contain. That for the canine tooth is the deepest; those for the molars are the widest, and are sub- divided into minor cavities by septa ; those for the incisors are single, but deep and narrow. The Buccinator arises from the outer surface of this process, as far forward as the fu'st molar tooth. When the maxillse are articulated with each other, their alveolar processes together form the alveolar arch ; the centre of the anterior margin of tliis arch is named the alveolar point. The palatal process (processus palatinus), thick and strong, projects horizontally inwards from the umer surface of the bone. It forms a consider- able part of the floor of the nose and the roof of the mouth and is much thicker in front than behind. Its inferior surface (fig. 315) is concave, rough and uneven, and forms, with the palatal process of the opposite bone, the anterior three-fourths of the hard palate. It is perforated by numerous foramina for the passage of the nutrient vessels ; is channelled at the back part of its alveolar border by a gi'oove, sometimes a canal, for the trans- mission of the posterior palatine vessels, and the anterior or large palatine nerve from Meckel's ganglion ; and presents little depressions for the lodgment