MYOLOGY 496 vertebral column. They are covered in the lumbar region by tlie lumbar fascia, in the thoracic region by the Serrati and the vertebral fascia, and in the cervical region by a layer of cervical fascia continued beneath tiie Trapezius and the Splenius. This large muscular and tendinous mass varies in size and structure at different parts of the vertebral column. In the sacral region it is narrow and pointed, and at its origui chiefly tendinous in structure. In the lumbar region it becomes enlarged, and forms a thick fleshy mass. In the thoracic region it is subdivided into three columns, which gradually diminish in size as they ascend to be mserted into the vertebrae and ribs. The outer and middle columns are each subdivided from below upwards into three parts, viz. the outer into Ilio-costalis, Musculus accessorius, and Cervicalis ascendens; the middle into Longissimus dorsi, Transversalis cervicis, and Trachelo-mastoid. The inner column is the shortest and weakest, and is named the Spinalis dorsi. The Erector spinte arises from the anterior .'jurface of a ver}' broad and thick tendon, which is attached, internally, to the spines of the sacrum, to the spinous processes of the lumbar and the eleventh and twelfth thoracic vertebrae, and the supraspinous ligament ; externally, to the back part of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, and to the lateral crests of the sacrum, where it blends with the great sacro-sciatic and posterior sacro-iliac liga- ments. Some of its fibres are continuous with the fibres of origin of the Gluteus maximus. The muscular fibres form a large fleshy mass, bounded in front by the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and bj the middle lamella of the lumbar fascia. The Ilio-costalis (m. iliocostalis lumborum), the external portion of the Erector spinae, is inserted, by six or seven flattened tendons, into the mferior borders of the angles of the lower six or seven ribs. The Musculus accessorius (m. iliocostalis dorsi) arises by flattened tendons from the upper borders of the angles of the lower six ribs internal to the tendons of insertion of the Ilio-costalis; these become muscular, and are inserted into the upper borders of the angles of the upper six ribs and into the back of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. The Cervicalis ascendens (m. iliocostalis cervicis) is situated on the inner side of the Accessorius ; it arises from the angles of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and is inserted mto the posterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. The Longissimus dorsi is the middle and largest portion of the Erector spinse. In the lumbar region, where it is as yet blended with the Iho-costalis, some of its fibres are attached to the whole length of the posterior surfaces of the transverse processes and the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebra, and to the middle layer of the lumbar fascia. In the thoracic region it is inserted, by rounded tendons, into the tips of the transverse processes of all the thoracic vertebrae, and by fleshy processes uito the lower nme or ten ribs between theu- tubercles and angles. The Transversalis cervicis (m. longissimus cervicis), placed on the inner side of the Longissimus dorsi, arises by long thm tendons from the summits of the transverse processes of tiie upper four or five thoracic vertebrte, and is inserted by similar tendons into the posterior tubercles of tlie transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae from the second to the sixtii inclusive. . . , Tlie Trachelo-mastoid (m. longissimus capitis) lies on the inner side of the Transversalis cervicis, between it and the Complexus muscle. It arises by tendons from the transverse processes of the upper four or five tiioracic vertebra}, and the articular processes of the lower three or four cervical. The fibres form a small muscle, which ascends to be inserted into the posterior margin of the mastoid process, beneath the Splenius capitis and Sterno-mastoid muscles. This small muscle is almost always crossed by a tendinous inter- section near its insertion into the mastoid process. . . . The Spinalis dorsi is situated at the inner side of the Longissimus dorsi, with which it is intimately blended, and arises by three or four tendons from the spinous processes of the first two lumbar and the last two tlioracic vertebra : these unitincr, form a small muscle whieii is inserted by separate tendons into the .spinous processes of the upper thoracic vertebrae, the number varying