607 THE HEART The coiumnos carnece (trabeculte carueae) are rounded or irregular muscular columns which project from the whole of the inner surface of the ventricle, with the exception of the conus arteriosus. They are of three kinds : some are attached along their entire length on one side and merely form prominent ridges, others are fixed at tlieir extremities but free in the middle, while a third set [musculi papillares) are continuous by their bases with the wall of the ventricle, while their apices give origin to the chordae tendinese which pass to be attached to the segments of the tricuspid valve. There are two papillary muscles, anterior and posterior : of these, the anterior is the larger, and its chordae tendineae are connected with the marginal and infundibular cusps of tlie valve ; the posterior sometimes consists of two or three muscular columns ; its chordae tendineae are connected with the septal and marginal segments. In addition to tliese, some chordae tendineae spring du-ectly from the ventricular septum, or from small papillary eminences on it, and pass to tlie septal and infundibular segments. A fleshy band, well marked in sheep and some otlier animals, frequently extends from the base of the anterior papillary muscle to the interventricular septum. From its attachments it may assist in Fig. 566.—Heart seen from above. Might auricular appeiidix Left auricular appendix j /^S^^ Uightpulmonary veins Left pulmonary veins preventing over-distension of the ventricle, and so has been named the moderator band. The pulmonary valve (fig. 566) consists of three semilunar segments (valvule semilunares a. pulmonalis), two in front and one behind, formed by a dupli- cature of the lining membrane, strengthened by fibrous tissue. "They are attached, by theii- outer convex margins, to the wall of the artery, at its junction with the ventricle, their inner borders being free and directed'upwards mto the lumen of the vessel. The free and attached margins of each are strengthened by tendinous fibres, and the former presents, at its middle, a small projecting thickened nodule, called the corpus Arantii (nodulus valvulaj semilunaris). From this nodule tendinous fibres radiate through the segment to its attached margin, but are absent from two narrow crescentic portions, thQ lwnulm (lunulas valvularum semilunarum)', placed one on either side of the nodule immediately adjoining the free margin. Between the semilunar segments and the wall of the pulmonary artery are three pouches or dilatations, the sinuses of Valsalva. Similar but larger sinuses exist between the semilunar segments of the aortic valve and the wall of the aorta.