THE CEREBELLUM 827 crescentic, and (5) the poslero-superior. The four fissures are named from before backwards, the precentral, the postcentral, the preclival, and the postcUval. The arrangement of these lobes and fissures will be understood by a reference to the accompanying scheme, in wliich they are named in order from before backwards. Hemisphere Fraenulum. Ala lobuli centralis. Anterior crescentic lobe. Superior vermis Lingula. Precentral fissure Lobulus centralis. Postcentral fissure Culmen monticuli. Preclival fissure Posterior crescentic lobe. Clivus monticuli. Hemisphere Frsenulum. Ala lobuli centralis. Anterior crescentic lobe. Posterior crescentic lobe. Postero-superior lobe. PostcUval fissure Folium cacuminis. Postero-superior lobe. The lingula is a small tongue-shaped process, consisting of four or five foUa ; it lies in front of the lobulus centralis, and is concealed by it. Anteriorly, it rests on the dorsal surface of the valve of Vieussens, and its white matter is continuous with that of the valve. On either side, the lingula gradually shades ofiF, and is prolonged for only a short distance into the hemispheres, where it forms the fraenulum. This does not stretch beyond the superior peduncle of the cerebellum, over which it lies. The lobulus centralis is a small square lobe, situated in the anterior notch. It overlaps the lingula, and is in turn partially concealed by the culmen monticuli; laterally, it extends along the upper and anterior part of each hemisphere, where it forms a ^ving-like prolongation, the ala lobuli centralis. The culmen monticuli is much larger than the two lobes just described, and constitutes, with the succeeding lobe, the bulk of the superior vermis. In front, it partially overlaps and obscures the lobulus centralis ; and behind, it is separated from the clivus by the preclival fissure. It forms the most prominent part of the superior vermis, and is marked on its surface by three or four secondary fissures, which divide it into smaller lobules. Laterally, it is continuous with the anterior crescentic lobes of the hemispheres, which are separated from the posterior crescentic lobes by the preclival fissure. The culmen monticuli and the two anterior crescentic lobes form the lobus culminis. The clivus monticuli is of considerable size, and consists of a group of lammae which are separated in front from the culmen by the preclival fissure, but appear behind to be almost continuous with the folium cacuminis ; it will be found, however, on careful examination, to be separated from it by a well-defined fissure, the postcUval fissure. Laterally, this lobe is continued into the hemispheres as the posterior crescentic lobes, which are somewhat semilunar in shape, and form, Avith the anterior crescentic lobes, the gi-eater part of the upper surface of the hemispheres. The two posterior crescentic lobes and the intervening clivus monticuli constitute the lobus clivi. The folium cacuminis is a short, narrow, concealed band at the posterior extremity of the vermis, consisting apparently of a smgle folium, but in reality marked on its upper and under surfaces by secondary fissures. Laterally, it expands in either hemisphere into a considerable lobe, which is semilunar in shape, and is situated at the postero-superior part of the hemisphere, and bounded below by the great horizontal fissure. It is named the postero- superior lobe, and occupies the posterior third of the upper surface of the hemisphere, forrning its rounded postero-lateral border. The postero-superior lobes and the fohum cacuminis form the lobus cacuminis. The under surface of the cerebellum (figs. 704,705) presents, in the middle line, the inferior vermis, buried in the vallecula, and separated from the hemisphere on cither side by a deep groove, the sulcus valleculoe. Here, as on the upper surface, there are deep fissures, dividing it mto separate segments or