OSTEOLOGY 316 Pectjliak, Characters of the Metacarpal Bones The first metacarpal bone (fig. 372) is sliorter and stouter than the others, diverges to a greater degree from the carpus, and its palmar surface is directed inwards towards the palm. The sliajt is flattened and broad on its dorsal surface, and does not present the ridge which is found on the other metacarpal bones ; its palmar surface is concave from above downwards. On its outer border is inserted the Opponens pollicis ; its inner border gives origin to the outer head of the First dorsal interosseous. The mr-pal extremity presents a concavo-convex surface, for articulation with the trapezium ; it has no lateral facets, but on its outer side is a tubercle for the insertion of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. The difjital extremity is less convex than those of the other metacarpal bones, and is broader from side to side than from before backwards. On its palmar surface are two articular eminences, of which the outer one is the larger, for the two sesamoid bones in the tendons of the Flexor brevis poUicis. The second metacarpal bone (fig. 373) is the longest, and its base the largest, of the four remaining bones. Its carpal extremity is prolonged upwards Fig. 372.—The first meta- carpal. (Left.) Fig. 373.—The second metacarpal. (Left.) For For 3rd trapezoid ^''^i''^^'*"'" JagnZn ^"trapezoid For trapezium For trapeziwii and inwards, forming a prominent ridge. It pre- sents four articular facets : three on the upper surface and one on the inner or ulnar side. Of the facets on the upper surface the . i.„f„„^ middle is the largest and is concave ffom side to side, convex f^m befo e backwards for articulation with the trapezoid ; the external is smaU, flat and oval for articulation with the trai^ezium ; the internal, on the summit of the ridge, is long and narrow for articulation with the os magnunl. The facet on lie ulnar side articulates with the third metacarpal. The Exten or carp radialis longior is inserted on the dorsal surface and the Flexor carpi radiali. on the palmar surface of this extremity. , The third metacarpal bone (fig. 374 is a little smaller than the preceding The dorsal aspect of its <^^iremily presents on i^s mdial Ea p??amidal eminence, the styloid p-ocess, which «^t«uds upwards beW OS maaLm; immediately below this is a rough surface for the attacl iii^^^^^^^^ o t"e°SxteAsor carpi raialis brevior. The carpal '-t.cular facet is conca^^ behind flat in front, and articulates with the os magnum. On the radial siac Ts a smooth concave facet for articulation with the second -arpa^ ai d on the ulnar side two smaU oval facets for articulation mth the tourtii metacarpal.