WEIGHT OF THE ENCEPHALON 885 the condition of the whole body ; and, as tliis is usually lacking, the mere record of weight possesses little significance. The human brain is heavier than tliat of any of the lower animals, except the elephant and whale. The brain of the former weighs from eiglit to ten pounds ; and that of a whale, in a specimen seventy-five feet long, weighed rather more than five pounds. Cerebral Localisation.—Physiological and pathological research have now gone far to prove that a considerable part of the surface of the brain may bo mapped out into a series of more or less definite areas, each of which is intimately connected •with, some well-defined function. Tlie chief areas are indicated in figs. 750 and 751. Motor areas.—The motor area occupies the precentral and frontal gyri and the para- central lobule. The centres for the lower limb are located on the uppermost part of the precentral gyrus and its continuation on to the paracentral lobule ; those for the trunk are on the upper portion, and those for the upper limb on the middle portion of the pre- central gyms. The facial centres are situated on the lo\\'er part of the precentral gjTUS, those for the tongue, larynx, muscles of mastication, and pharynx on the frontal opercula, while those for the head and neck occupy the posterior end of the mid-frontal region. Fia. 751.—Areas of localisation on inner surface of hemisphere. Motor area iu red. Area of ordinary sensation in blue. Visual area in yellow. Olfactory area in purple. Sensortj areas.—Tactile and temperature senses are located on the postcentral gyrus, while the sense of form and solidity is on the superior parietal gyrus and precuneus. With regard to the special senses, the area for the sense of taste is probably related to the uncus and luppocampal gyrus. The auditory area occupies the middle thii-d of the superior temporal gyrus and the adjacent gyri in the Sylvian fissure ; the visual area, the calcarine fissure and cuneus ; the ohactory area, the rhinencephalon. As special centres of much importance may be noted : the emissive centre for speech on the left inferior frontal and precentral gyn ; the auditory receptive centre on the marginal and superior temporal gyri, and the visual receptive centre on tlie angular gyrus. Cerebral Topography.—Tha relation of the principal fissures and convolutions of the cerebrum to the outer surface of the scalp has been the subject of much investigation, ana many systems have been devised by which one may locaUse these parts from an examination of the external surface of the head (fig. 752). These plans can only be regarded as approximately correct for several reasons : in the hrst place, because the relations of the convolutions and sulci to the surface vary iu different inchviduaLs ; secondly, because the surface area of the scalp is greater than the surface area ot the brain, so that lines drawn on the one cannot correspond exactly to sulci or convolutions on the other ; and thhdly, because the sulci and convolutions in two inaivicluals are never precisely ahke. Nevertheless, the prmcipal fissures and convolutions can be mapped out with sufficient accuracy for aU practical purposes, so that any particular convolution can bo exposed by removing witli the trephine a certain portion