965 BRACHIAL PLEXUS The external branch, the smaller of the two, supplies the integument of the radial side and ball of the thumb, joining with the anterior branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The internal branch communicates, above the wrist, with the posterior cutaneous branch from the musculo-cutaneous, and, on the back of the hand, with the dorsal cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. It then divides into four digital nerves, which are distributed as follows : the first supplies the ulnar side of the thumb ; the second, the radial side of the index finger ; the tliird, the adjoining sides of the index and middle fingers ; and tlie fourth, the adjacent borders of the middle and ring fingers.* The latter nerve communicates with a filament from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. The posterior interosseous (n. interosseus antibrachii dorsalis) winds to tlie back of the forearm round the outer side of the radius, passes between the two planes of fibres of the Supinator brevis, and is prolonged downwards between the superficial and deep layer of muscles, to the middle of the forearm. Considerably diminished in size, it descends on the interosseous membrane, beneath the Extensor longus poUicis, to the back of the carpus, where it presents a gangliform enlargement from \^'liich filaments are distri- buted to the ligaments and articulations of the carpus. It supplies all the muscles on the radial side and posterior aspect of the forearm, excepting the Anconeus, Brachio-radialis, and Extensor carpi radialis longior. Applied Anatomy.—The brachial plexus may be injured by falls from a height on to the side of the head and shoulder, whereby the nerves of the plexus are violently stretched ; the fifth cervical nerve sustains the gi'eatest amoiint of injury, and the subsequent paralysis may be confined to the muscles supplied by this nerve, viz. the Deltoid, Biceps, Brachialis anticus, and Brachio-radialis, with sometimes the Supra- and Infra- spinatus and the Supinator brevis. The position of the hmb, under such conditions, is characteristic : the arm hangs by the side and is rotated inwards ; the forearm is extended and pronated. The arm cannot be raised from the side ; all power of flexion of the elbow is lost, as is also supination of the forearm. This is kno-mi as Erb's paralysis, and a very similar condition is occasionally met with in new-born children, either from injury to the fifth nerve from the pressure of forceps used in effecting delivery, or from traction of the head in breech presentations. A second variety of partial palsy of the brachial plexus is known as the Klumpke paralysis. In this it is the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves that are injured, either before or after they have joined to form the lower trunk. Atrophy follows in the intrinsic muscles of the hand, and in the flexors of the fingers and wrists ; the thenar and hypothenar eminences waste and flatten ; the fingers cannot be spread out or approximated, on accoimt of the paralysis of the Interossei, and become clawed. The injury to the nerves may follow dhect violence, or a gunshot wound. The brachial plexus may also be injured by violent traction on the arm, or by efforts at reducing a dislocation of the shoulder-joint ; and the amount of paralysis will depend upon the amoimt of injury to the constituent nerves. When the entire plexus is involved, the whole of the upper extremity will be paralysed and anfesthetic. In these cases the injury appears to be rather a tearing away of the roots of the nerves from their origin in the spinal cord, than a solution of continuity in the nerves themselves. The brachial plexus in the axilla is often damaged fr om the pressure of a crutch, producing the condition known as ' crutch paralysis.' In these cases the musculo-spiral seems most frequently to be the nerve chiefiy implicated ; the uhiar nerve suffers next in frequency. The median and musculo-spiral nerves often suffer from 'sleep palsies,' paralysis from pressure coming on while the patient is profoundly asleep under the influence of alcohol or some narcotic. Paralysis of the posterior thoracic nerve throws the Serratus magnus out of action, and may occur in porters in whom the nerve is exposed to injury in the shoulder as it crosses the posterior triangle of the neck. The lower angle of the scapula is di-awn inwards towards the middle line, by the unopposed action of the Rhomboids and Levator anguli scapulae, and tends to project out backwards when the arm is held horizontally forwards. The arm cannot be raised above the horizontal unless the lower angle of the scapula is pushed outwards for the patient. The circumflex nerve, on accoimt of its course round the surgical neck of the humerus, is liable to be torn in fractures of this part of the bone, and m dislocations of the shoulder- joint ; paralysis of the Deltoid, anaesthesia of the skin covermg that muscle, and the formation of adhesions in the shoulder-joint in consequence of injury to its trophic nerves, result. According to Erb, mflammation of the shoulder-jomt is hable to be followed by a neuritis of this nerve from extension of the inflammation to it. Paralysis * According to Hutchinson, tlie digital nerve to the thumb reaches only as high as the root of tho nail: the one to the forefinger as high as the middle of the second phalanx : and the one to the middle and ring fingers not higher than the first phalangeal ]omt.—London llns. Oaz. vol. iii. p. 319.