LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD, FACE, AND NECK 767 is composed of areolar tissue, vvitli elastic fibres and isolated fasciculi of muscular fibres. The right lymphatic duct (ductus lymphaticus dexter) (fig. 649), about iialf an inch in length, courses along the inner border of the Scalenus anticus at the root of the neck and terminates in the right subclavian vein, at its angle Fig. 649.—^Terminal collecting trunks of right .side. (Poirier and Charpy.) a. Jugular trunk. 6. Subclavian trunk, c. Bronoho-mediastinal trunk, d. Right lymphatic truuk. e. Gland o( internal mammary chain. /. Gland of deep cen-ioal chain. of junction with the right internal jugular vein. Its orifice is guarded by two semilunar valves, which prevent the passage of venous blood into the duct. Tributaries.—It receives the lymph from the right side of the head and neck through the right jugular trunk ; from the right upper extremity through tlie right subclavian trunk ; from the right side of the thorax, the right lung, and right side of the heart, and from part of the convex surface of the liver, through the right broncho-mediastinal trunk. These three collecting trunks frequently open separately in the angle of union of the two veins. Applied Anatomy.—Blockage of the thoracic duct by mature specimens of the minute parasitic worm Microfilaria nocturna gives rise to stasis of the chyle, and to its passage in various abnormal directions on its course jsast the obstruction. The neighbouring abdominal, renal, and pelvic lymphatics become enlarged, varicose, and tortuous, and chyle may make its way into the urine (chyluria), the tunica vaginalis (chylocele), the abdominal cavity (chylous ascites), or the pleural cavity (chylous pleural effusion), in consequence of rupture of some of these distended lymphatic vessels. The thoracic duct may be secondarily infected in intestinal or pulmonarj' tuberculosis, and may contain either miliary tubercles, caseating tuberculous masses, or even tuberculous ulcers. It is often the seat of secondary carcinomatous deposits in cases of cancer of some abdominal discus, becoming infiltrated throughout imtil it becomes a stiff monihform rod as thick as a pencil, with multiple stenoses and dilatations of its lumen ; in such cases the left supraclavicular glands often become infected and enlarged, while the lungs remain entirely free from secondary growths. LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD, FACE, AND NECK The lymphatic glands of the head (fig. 650) are arranged in the following groups: V o / t. o Occipital. Facial. Posterior auricular. Internal maxillary. Parotid. Lingual. Retro-pharyngeal. The occipital glands (lymphoglandulse occipitales), one to three in number, are placed on tlie back of the head close to tlie margin of tiie Trapezius and resting on the insertion of the Complexus. Their afferent vessels drain tiie occipital region of the scalp, whUe their efferents pass to the upper glands of the deep cervical group. The posterior auricular or mastoid glands (lymphoglandulas auriculares n?H "q'^'^^' ^^"'■^l^y in number, are situated on the mastoid insertion 01 the Sterno-mastoid. Their afferent vessels drain the posterior part of the