RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS 413 1. Superior Radio-ulnar Articulation (Articxjlatio Radiotjlnaris Proximalis) This articulation is a trochoid or pivot-joint between the circuniference of the head of the radius and the ring formed by the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna and the awitdar or orbicular ligament. ...^ The Annular or Orbicular Ligament (lig. annulare radn) (fag. 455) is a strong band of fibres, which encircles the head of the radius, and retams it m contact with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. It forms about four- fifths of the osseo-fibrous ring, and is attached to the anterior and posterior margins of the lesser sigmoid cavity ; a few of its lower fibres are, however, contmued round below the cavity and form at this level a complete fibrous^ vm" Its upper border blends with the anterior and posterior ligaments ot the^elbow while from its lower border a thin loose membrane passes to be attached to the neck of the radius ; a tliickened band Avhich extends from Fig. 455.—Orbicular ligament of radius, from above. The head of the radius has been sawn off and the bone dislodged from the ligament. Head of radius Ligamentum Greater sigmoid (cut) guadratiim cavity Orbicular ligament Lesser sigmoid cavihj Olecranon (cut) the hwer border of the orbicular ligament below the lesser sigmoid cavity to tlie neck of the radius is known as the ligamentum quadratum. The outer surface of the orbicular ligament is strengthened by the external lateral ligament of the elbow, and affords origm to part of the Supinator brevis. Its inner surface is smootli, and lined by synovial membrane, which is continuous with that of the elbow-joint. Movements.—The movements which take place in this articulation are limited to rotatory movements of the head of the radius within the ring formed by the orbicular Ugament and the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna ; rotation forwards being called pronation ; rotation backwards, supination. Supination is performed by the Biceps and Supinator brevis, assisted to a sUght extent by the Extensor muscles of the thumb, and, in certain positions, by the Brachio-radialis. Pronation is performed by the Pronator teres and Pronator quadratus, assisted, in some positions, by the Brachio-radialis. Surface Form.—The position of the superior radio-ulnar joint is marked on the surface by a dimple on the back of the elbow which indicates the position of the head of the radius. Applied Anatomy.—Dislocation of the head of the radius alone is a not uncommon accident, and occurs most frequently in young persons from falls on the hand when the forearm is extended and supinated, the head of the bone being displaced forward. It is attended by rupture of the orbicular ligament. Occasionally a peculiar injury, which is supposed to be a subluxation, occurs in young children in lifting them from the ground by the hand or forearm. It is beUeved that the head of the radius is displaced downwards in the orbicular ligament, the upper border of which becomes folded over the head of the