871 THE CORPUS STRIATUM its convexity, the ' core ' of the hippocamjDus, as he terms it, presents, in many cases, a corrugated or crimped appearance. The eminentia collateraiis is an elongated eminence lying to the outer side of and parallel with the hiiDpocampus major. It corresponds with the middle part of the collateral fissure, and its size depends on the deptli and direction of that furrow. It is continuous behind with a flattened triangular area which is situated between the posterior and descending eornua, and named the trigonum collaterale. The fimbria is a continuation of the posterior pillar of the fornix, and Mall be discussed with that body ; while a description of the choroid plexus will be found on page 877. The corpus striatum (figs. 740, 741, 742) has received its name from the striped appearance which a section of its anterior part presents, in consequence of diverging white fibres being mixed with the grey matter which forms the greater part of its substance. A part of this body is imbedded in the white Fig. 741.—Coronal section thi-ough anterior comua of lateral ventricles. Suj)erior frontal convolution Middle frontal convolution Corpus eallosum Anterior coritu Septum peltucidum Caudate nucleus Internal capsule lenticular nucleus Sulcus olfactoriua Island of Beil Temporal lobe Inferior frontal convolution substance of the hemisphere, and is therefore external to the ventricle. It IS termed the extra-ventricular portion, or the nucleus lenticularis ; a part, however, is visible in the ventricle, and is named the intraventricular portion, or the nucleus caudatus. The nucleus caudatus is a pear-shaped, highly arched mass of grey matter ; its broad extremity, or head (caput nuclei caudati), is directed lorwards mto the fore-part of the body and anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle, and is continuous with the grey matter of the anterior perforated apace and Mdth the anterior end of the lenticular nucleus ; its narrow end, or iazi (cauda nuclei caudati) is directed outwards and backwards on the outer a ? ?u thalamus, from which it is separated by the taenia semicircularis and the vein of the corpus striatum. It is then contmued downwards