311 CARPUS say, nearer the groxmd. After fracture or separation of the epiphysis the styloid process of the radius is on the same level as, or on a higher level than, that of the uhia, whereas it would be unaltered in position in dislocation. Reduction in the case of Colles's fracture is usually easily effected by traction on the hand, the limb being subsequently splinted with, the hand in the position of ulnar flexion. THE HAND The skeleton of the hand (figs. 362 and 363) is subdivided into three segments—the carpus or wist bones ; the metacarpus or bones of the palm ; and tlie phalanges or bones of the digits. THE CARPUS Tlie Carpal bones (ossa carpi), eight in number, are arranged in two rows. Those of the upper row, from the radial to the ulnar side, are named the scaphoid, semilunar, cuneiform, and pisiform ; those of the lower row, in the same order, are named the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform. Common Characteks of the Carpal Bones Each bone (excepting the pisiform) presents six surfaces. Of these the anterior or palmar and the posterior or dorsal are rough, for ligamentous attach- ment ; tlie dorsal surfaces being the broader, except in the scaphoid and semi- lunar. The superior or proximal, and inferior or distal surfaces are articular, the superior generally convex, the inferior concave ;. the internal and external surfaces are also articular when in contact with contiguous bones, otherwise they are rough and tubercular. The structure in aU is similar, consisting of cancellous tissue enclosed in a layer of compact bone. Each bone is ossified from a single centre. ■ Bones op the Upper Row Scaphoid (fig. 364) The Scaphoid (os naviculare manus) is the largest bone of the first row. It has received its name from its fancied resemblance to a boat, being broad at one end, and narrow like a prow at the other. It is situated at the upper and outer part of the carpus, its long axis being from above downwards, outwards, and forwards. The superior surface is convex, smooth, of triangular shape, and articulates with the lower end of the radius. The inferior surface, directed downwards, outwards, and backwards, is also smooth, convex, and triangular, and is divided by a slight ridge into two parts, the external articulating Fig. 364.—The left scaphoid. with the trapezium, the inner with the trapezoid. The dorsal surface presents a nan-ow, rough groove, which runs the entire length of tire bone, and serves for the attachment of ligaments. The palmar surface is concave above, and elevated at its lower and outer part into a rounded projection, the tuberosity (tuberculum oss. navicularis), which is directed forwards and gives attacliraent to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist and sometimes origin to a few fibres of the Abductor poUicis. The external surface is rough and narrow, and gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the wrist. The internal