UGO ANUIOLUGY of the atlas. The fourth pari pierces the dura mater and inclines inwards to the front of the medulla oblongata ; it is placed between the hypoglossal nerve and the anterior root of the suboccipital nerve and beneath the first digitation of the ligamentum dcuticulatum. At the lower border of the pons Varolii it unites with the vessel of the opposite side to form the basilar artery. The branches of the vertebral artery may be divided into two sets—those given off in the neck, and those within the cranium. Cervical Branches. Cranial Branches. Spinal. Posterior meningeal. Muscular. Anterior spuml. Posterior spinal. Posterior inferior cerebellar. Bulbar. Spinal branches (rami spinales) enter the spinal canal through the inter- vertebral foramina, and each divides into two branches. Of these, one passes along the roots of the nerves to supply the spinal cord and its membranes, anastomosing with the other arteries of the spinal cord ; the other divides into an ascending and a descending branch, which unite with similar branches from the arteries above and below, so that two lateral anastomotic chains are formed on the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebras, near the attachment of the pedicles. From these anastomotic chains branches are supplied to the periosteum and the bodies of the vertebras, and others form commmiications with similar branches from the opposite side ; from these communications small twigs arise ^vhich joui similar branches above and below, to form a central anastomotic chain on the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae. Muscular branches are given off to the deep muscles of the neck, where the vertebral artery curves round the articular process of the atlas. They anastomose with the occipital, and with the ascending and deep cervical arteries. The posterior meningeal (ramus meningeus) springs from the vertebral opposite the foramen magnum, ramifies between the bone and dura mater in the cerebellar fossa, and supplies the falx cerebeUi. It is frequently represented by one or two small branches. The anterior spinal (a. spinahs anterior) is a small branch, which arises near the termination of the vertebral, and, descending in front of the medulla oblongata, unites with its fellow of the opposite side at the level of the foramen magnum. One of these vessels is usually larger than the other, but occasionally they are about equal in size. The sin|jle trunk, thus formed, descends on the front of the spinal cord, and is reinforced by a succession of small branches which enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina ; these branches are derived from the vertebral and ascending cervical of the inferior thyroid m the neck; from the intercostals in the thorax; and from the lumbar, iho-lumbar, and lateral sacral arteries in the abdomen and pelvis. Tbey unite, by means of ascending and descending branches, to form a single anterior median artery, which extends as far as the lower part of the spinal cord, and is continued as a slender twig on the filum terminale. This vessel is placed m the pia mater along the anterior median fissure ; it supplies that membrane, and the substance of tlie cord, and sends off branches at its lower part to be distributed to the caudaeqmna. The posterior spinal (a. spinalis posterior) arises from the vertebral, at_ the side of the medulla oblongata ; passing backwards to the posterior aspect of the spinal cord, it descends on the spinal cord, Ijnng in front of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and is reinforced by a succession of small branches, which enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina; by means of these it is continued to the lower part of the cord, and to the cauda equina, liranches from the posterior spinal arteries form a free anastomosis round the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and communicate, by means of very tortuous transverse branches, with the vessels of the opposite side. _ Close to its ongm each gives off an ascending branch, which terminates at the side of the fourth ventncle. Avplicd Anaton,.!,.-Bhcdmg into the spinal membranes or «]^,X^'Sn InUlrr spinal cord it.solf is not common, but may occur from m]uries received at b>rth aU'^^^^^^^ is unduly prolonged or instruments are used. It is also met with m chrome msamty, and in tetanus or strychnine poisoning.