OSTEOLOGY 222 The ethmoidal notch (iiicisura etliinoidalis) separates the two orbital plates ; it is quadrilateral, ^ind filled up, in the articulated skull, by the cribriforin plate of the ethmoid. The margins of the notch present several half-cells which, when united with corresponding half-cells on the upper surface of the ethmoid, complete the ethmoidal air-cells. Two grooves cross these edges transversely ; they are converted into the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals by the ethmoid bone, and open on the inner wall of the orbit. The anterior canajj^rans^^ the nagaljierve and Q3iim9l.SiiUQ^^:^i.:i!-SSi^ ; the nosterior^ the ^iostia:iej:_etl]j^^ in front of the ethmoidal notcli,"on either side of the nasal spine, are the openings of the frontal air sinuses. These are two irregular cavities, which extend backwards, upwards and outwards, for a variable distance between the two tables of the skuU, and are separated from one another by a thin bony septum, which often deviates to one or other side,* mth the result that the sinuses are rarely symmetrical. Absent at birth, they Fig. 291.—^Frontal bone. Inner sui-face. are usually fairly well developed between the ninth and twelfth years, but only reach their full size after puberty. They vary in size in different pereons, and are larger in men than in women. Aldren Turner {Th^ Accessory Sinuses of the Nose, 1901) gives the following measurements for a sinus of average size : height, in. ; breadth, 1 in. ; depth from before backwards. 1 in. They are lined by mucous membrane, and each communicates with the corresponding nasal fossa by means of a passage called the infundihidum. The border of the vertical portion is thick, strongly serrated, bevelled at the expense of the inner table above, where it rests upon the parietal bones, and at the e.xpense of the outer table on either side, where it receives the lateral pressure of those bones ; this border is continued below into a triangular, rough surface, which articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid. Tlie posterior borders of the orbital plates are thin, serrated, and articulate with the lesser wings of the sphenoid.