HUMERUS The anterior border (margo an- terior) runs from the front of the greater tuberosity above to tlie coronoid fossa below, separating tlie internal from the external surface. Its upper part is very prominent and rough, and forms the outer lip of the bicipital groove ; it is some- times called the anterior bicipital or pectoral ridge, and serves for the insertion of the tendon of the Pectoralis major. About its centre it forms the anterior boundary of the rougli deltoid impression ; below, it is smooth and rounded, aiford- ing attachment to the Brachials anticus. The external border (margo lateralis) runs from the back part of the greater tuberosity to the external epicondyle, and separates the external from the posterior surface. Its upper half is rounded and indistinctly marked, serving for the attachment of the lower part of the insertion of the Teres minor, and below this giving origin to the external head of the Triceps muscle; its centre is traversed by a broad, but shallow oblique de- pression, the musculo-spiral groove (sulcus radialis). Its lower part for •ms a promhient, rough margin, a little curved from behind for- ^•ards, the external supracondylar ridge, which presents an anterior lip for the origin of the Brachio- radialis above, and Extensor carpi radialis longior beloM', a posterior lip for the Triceps, and an inter- mediate space for the attachment of tlie external intermuscular septum. The internal border (margo medialis) extends from the lesser tuberosity to the internal epicon- dyle. Its upper third consists of a prominent ridge, the posterior bicipital ridge, which gives insertion to the tendon of the Teres major. About its centre is a slight im- pression for the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis, and just below this is the entrance of the nutrient canal, directed dowmvards; some- tunes there is a second nutrient canal situated at the commence- ment of the musculo-spiral groove, llie mferior third of this border IS raised into a sliglit ridge, the internal supracondylar ridge, wliich becomes very prominent below ; it presents an anterior lip for tlie Fig. 354.—Left humerus. Posterior view.