THE MOUTH 1091 extremity of Stenson's duct; their ducts open in the mouth opposite the last molar tooth. They are called molar glands. The gums (gingiva;) are composed of a dense fibrous tissue, closely connected to the periosteum of the alveolar processes, and surroundiiig the necks of the teeth. They are covered by smooth and vascular mucous membrane, wliich is remarkable for its limited sensibUity. Around the necks of the teeth this membrane presents numerous fine papilla;, and is reflected into the alveoli, where it is continuous with the periosteal membrane limng these cavities. Applied Anat&tny.—The gums are occasionally the seat of considerable hypertrophy, forming a lobulated vascular fold growing up in front and behind the teeth, so as almost to bury them. They may also become swollen and congested, bleeding treely, and often becoming ulcerated. The condition is Imown as spongy gums, and may occur in scurvy, in stomatitis and dyspepsia, m ill-fed tuberculous children, and from the admmistration of mercury; the gums are veiy tender, mastication is painful, and there is often consider- able fcetor. The margm of the gum presents an interrupted blue line in cases of lead-poisoning. The collection of tartar, which consists of the secretion from the gums, mixed with fragments of food and salivary salts, may give rise to a condition kno\ra as pxjorrhosa alveolaris, which is an inflammatory condition of the gums, followed by the gradual absorption of the alveolus and the falling out of the teeth. Fibrous tumours (epulis), myeloid growths and epitheliomata are met with in the gums. The palate (palatum) forms the roof of the mouth : it consists of two portions, the hard palate in front, the soft palate behind. The hard palate (palatum durum) is bounded in front and at the sides by the alveolar arches and gums ; behind, it is continuous with the soft palate. It is covered by a dense structure formed by the periosteum and mucous membrane of the mouth, wliich are intimately adherent. Along the middle line is a linear ridge or raphe (raphe palati), wliich terminates anteriorly in a small papilla corresponding with the inferior opening of the anterior palatine fossa. On either side and in front of the raphe the mucous membrane is thick, pale in colour, and corrugated ; belund, it is tliin, smooth, and of a deeper colour : it is covered with squamous epithelium, and furnished ^vith numerous glands (palatal glands), which lie between the mucous membrane and the surface of the bone. The soft palate (palatum molle) is a movable fold, suspended from the posterior border of the hard palate, and forming an incomplete septum between the mouth and pharynx. It consists of a fold of mucous membrane enclosing muscular fibres, an aponeurosis, vessels, nerves, adenoid tissue, and mucous glands. When occupying its usual position (i.e. relaxed and pendent) its anterior surface is concave, continuous with the roof of the mouth, and marked by a median ridge or raphe, which indicates its original separation into two lateral halves. Its posterior surface is convex, and continuous with the mucous membrane covering the floor of the nasal fossae. Its upper border is attached to the posterior margin of the hard palate, and its sides are blended with the pharynx. Its lower border is free. Hanging from the middle of its lower border is a smaU, conical, pendulous process, the uvula (uvula palatina) ; and arching outwards and downwards from the base of the uvula on either side are two curved folds of mucous membrane, containing muscular fibres, called the arches or pillars of the soft palate or pillars of the fauces. The anterior pillar (arcus glossopalatinus) on either side runs down- wards, outwards, and forwards to the side of the base of the tongue, and is formed by the projection of the Palato-glossus muscle, covered by mucous membrane. The posterior pillar (arcus pharyngopalatinus) is larger and projects farther inwards than tlie anterior; it runs downwards, outwards, and backwards to the side of the pharynx, and is formed by the projection of the Palato-pharyngeus muscle, covered by mucous membrane. The anterior and posterior pillars are separated below by a triangular interval, in wliich the tonsil is lodged. The aperture by which the mouth communicates with the pharynx is called the isthmus faucium. It is bounded, above, by the soft palate ; below, 4 A 2