1142 SPLANCHNOLOGY The third or transverse 'portion (pro-aortic portion) is from two to tliree inches in length. It commences at the right side of tlie upper border of tlie fourth himbar vertebra and passes from riglit to left, witli a sliglit inclination upwards, in front of tlie great vessels and crura of the Diaphragm, and ends in tlie fourth portion in front of the abdominal aorta. It is crossed by the superior mesenteric vessels and the mesentery. Its front surface is covered by peritoneum, except near the middle line, wliere it is crossed by the superior mesenteric vessels. Its posterior surface is uncovered by peritoneum, except towards its left extremity, where the posterior layer of the mesentery may sometimes be found covering it to a variable extent. Tins surface rests upon the right crus of the Diaphragm, the vena cava inferior, and the aorta. The upper surface is in relation witli the head of the pancreas. The fourth or ascending portion of the duodenum is about an inch in lengtli. It ascends on the left side of the aorta, as far as the level of the upper border of the second lumbar vertebra, where it turns abruptly forwards to become the jejunum, forming the duodeno-jejunal flexure. It lies in front of the left Psoas muscle and left renal vessels, and is covered in front, and partly at the sides, by peritoneum continuous with the left portion of the mesentery. The' fu'St part of the duodenum, as stated above, is somewhat movable, but the rest is practically fixed, and is bound down to neighbouring viscera and the posterior abdominal wall by the peritoneum. In addition to this, the fourth part of the duodenum and the duodeno-jejunal flexure are fixed by a structure to which the name of musculus suspensorius duodeni has been given. This structure commences in the connective tissue around the coeUac axis and left crus of the Diaphragm, and passes downwards to be inserted into the superior border of the duodeno-jejunal curve and a part of the ascending duodenum, and from this it is continued into the mesentery. It possesses, according to Treitz, plain muscular fibres mixed mth the fibrous tissue of wliich it is principally made up. It is of little importance as a muscle, but acts as a suspensory ligament. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the duodenum are the pyloric and superior pancreatico-duodenal branches of the hepatic, and the infei-ior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric. The veins terminate in the splenic and .superior mesenteric. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus. Jejunum and ileum.—The remainder of the small intestine from the termination of the duodenum is named jejunum and ileum ; the former term being given to the upper two-fifths and the latter to the lower three-fifths. There is no morphological line of distinction between the t^^-o, and the division is arbitrary ; but at the same time it must be noted that the character of the intestine gradually undergoes a change from the commencement of the jejunum to the termination of the ileum, so that a portion of the bowel taken from these two situations would present characteristic and marked differences. These are briefly as follows. . The jejunum (intestinum jejunum) is wider, its diameter being about an mcli and a half, and is thicker, more vascular, and of a deeper colour than the ileum, so that a given length weighs more. Its valvulte conniventes are large and thickly set, and its villi are larger than in the ileum. The glands ot Peyer are almost absent in the upper part of the jejunum, and m the lower part are less frequently found than in the ileum, and are smaller and tend to assume a circular form. By grasping the jejunum between the finger and thumb tlie valvulaj conniventes can be felt through the walls of the gut; these being absent in the lower part of the ileum, it is possible in this way to distingmsn the upper from the lower part of the small intestine. _ The ileum (intestinum ileum) is narrow, its diameter being an mch ana a quarter, and its coats thinner and less vascular than those of the lejunum. It possesses but few valvula; conniventes, and they are small and disappoai entirely towards its lower end, but Peyer's patches are larger and more numerous. The jejunum for the most part occupies the umbilical and ion iliac regions, while the ileum occupies chieHy the umbilical, hypogastric, rigm iliac, and pelvic regions. Its terminal part usually lies in the jiclvis, tiom which it ascends over the right ihae vessels and Psoas muscle ; it ends in i t right iliac fossa by opening into the inner side of the commencement ot tnc