DEVELOPMENT OF THE PARIETES 103 cells of the sclerotome are largely derived from those which form the core of the mvoccBl, and lie next the notochord. Fusion of the individual sclerotomes in an antero-posterior direction soon takes place, and thus a continuous strand of cells, the scleratogenous layer, is formed aloiig the ventro-lateral aspects of the neural tube. The cells of 'this layer proliferate rapidly, and extending inwards surround the notochord ; at the same time they grow backwards on the lateral aspects of the neural tube and eventually surround it, and thus the notochord and neural tube are enveloped by a continuous sheath of mesoderm, which is termed the membranous vertebral column. In this mesoderm the original segments are still distinguishable, but each is now difEerentiated into two portions, an anterior, consisting of loosely arranged cells, and a posterior, of more condensed tissue (fig. 129, A and b). Between the two portions the rudunent of the intervertebral disc is laid down (fig. 129, c). Cells from the posterior mass grow out into the intervals between the myotomes (fig. 129, b and c) of the corresponding and succeeding segments to form an arch or bow, the primitive vertebral bow. The mesial portion of this bow lies on the ventral aspect of the notochord, and is termed the hypocJiordal bar or brace. Its lateral portions extend both dorsally and ventrally ; the dorsal extensions surround the neural tube and represent the future neiual arch of the vertebra, while the ventral extend into Fig. 129.—Scheme showing the manner in which each vertebral centrum is developed from portions of two adjacent segments. Myotome Anterior portion of sclerotome Notocliord Posterior portion of sclerotome Intermyotomic sejjtuiii Costal process Intervertebral disc Notochord Centrum B the body-wall as the costal processes. The hinder part of the posterior mass joins the anterior mass of the succeeding segment to form the vertebral body. Each vertebral body is therefore a composite of two segments, being formed from the posterior portion of one segment and the anterior part of that immediately behind it. The neural and costal arches are derivatives of the posterior part of the segment in front of the intersegmental septum with which they are associated. This stage is succeeded by that of the cartilaginous vertebral column. In the fourth week two cartilaginous centres make their appearance on the dorsal aspect of the hypochordal bar, one on either side of the notochord ; these extend round the notochord and form the body of the cartilaginous vertebra. A second pair of cartilaginous foci appear in the lateral parts of the vertebral bow, and grow Imckwards on either side of the neural tube to form the cartilaginous neural arch. By the eighth week the cartilaginous arch has fused with the body, and in the fourth month the two halves of the arch are joined on the dorsal aspect of the neural tube. The spinous process is developed from the junction of the two halves of the neural arch. The transverse process grows out from the neural arch, immediately behind the costal process. Except in the case of the first cervical vertebra, the hypochordal bar of the primitive vertebral bow disappears by fusing with the intervertebral disc. In this vertebra, however, the entire bow persists and remains separate from the