LYMPHATICS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY 775 Fig. 656.—Lymphatic vessels of the dorsal surface of the hand. (Sappey.) The lymphatic vessels of the upper extremity are divided into two sets, superficial and deep. • xi. i i 4.- The superficial lymphatic vessels (fig. 656) commence in the lymphatic plexus which everWhere pervades the skin ; the meshes of the plexus are much finer in the palm and on the flexor aspect of the digits than elsewhere. The dio-ital plexuses are dramed by a pair of vessels winch run on the lateral aspect of each digit, and incline backwards to reach the dorsum ot the hand. From the dense plexus of the palm, vessels pass in different directions, viz. upwards towards the wist, do^vnwards to jom the digital vessels, inwards to join the vessels on the ulnar border of the hand, and outwards to those on the thumb. Several vessels from the central part of the plexus unite to form a trunk, which passes round the meta- carpal bone of the index finger to join the vessels on the back of that digit and on the back of the thumb. Running upwards in front of and behind the wrist, the lymphatic vessels are col- lected into radial, median, and ulnar groups, which accompany respectively the cephalic, median and basilic veins in the forearm. A few of the ulnar lymphatics terminate in the supratrochlear glands, but the majority pass directly to the external group of axillary glands. Some of the radial vessels are collected into a trunk, which ascends with the cephalic vein to the glands between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid ; the efferents from this group pass either to the subclavicular axillary glands or to the lower deep cervical glands. The deep lymphatic vessels accompany the deep blood-vessels. In the forearm, they consist of four sets, corresponding with the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries; they communicate at intervals with the superficial lymphatics, and some of them end in the glands which are occasionally found beside the arteries. In their course upwards, a few end in the glands which lie upon the brachial artery ; but most of them pass to the external group of axillary glands. LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The lymphatic glands of the lower extremity consist of the anterior tibial gland, and the popliteal and inguinal glands. The anterior tibial gland (lymphoglandula tibialis anterior) is small and inconstant. It lies on the interosseous membrane in relation to the upper part of the anterior tibial vessels, and constitutes a sub-station m the course of the anterior tibial lymphatic trunks. The popliteal glands (lymphoglandulae poplitete) (fig. 657), small in size and some six or seven in number, ai-e imbedded in the fat contained in the popliteal space. One lies immediately beneath the popliteal fascia, near the