SPHENOID BONE 235 spine are connected the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-mandibular joint and the Tensor palati. Internal to the anterior extremity of the infra- temporal crest is a triangular process which serves to increase the attachment of the External pterygoid; extending downwards and inwards from this process on to the front part of the external pterygoid plate is a ridge which forms the anterior limit of the zygomatic surface, and, in the articulated skull, the posterior boundary of the pterygo-maxillary fissure. The anterior or orbital surface of the greater wing (facies orbitalis) (fig. 302), smooth, and quadrilateral in shape, is directed forwards and inwards and forms the posterior part of the outer wall of the orbit. It is bounded above by a serrated edge, for articulation with the orbital plate of the frontal ; below, by a rounded border, which forms the postero-external boundary of the spheno- maxillary fissure. Internally, it is limited by a sharp margin, which forms the lower boundary of the sphenoidal fissure and has projecting from about its centre a little tubercle of bone, which gives attachment to the inferior head of the External rectus muscle of the eyeball ; at the upper part of this margin is a notch for the transmission of a recurrent branch of the lachrymal artery. Externally, it presents a serrated margin for articulation -wdth the malar bone. At the inner and lower part of the anterior surface, immediately below the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure, is a grooved surface, which forms the posterior wall of the spheno-maxiUary fossa, and on which the foramen rotundum opens. Circumference (tig. 301).—Commencing from behind, that portion of the circumference of the greater wing which extends from the body to the spine is irregular. Its inner half forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum medium, and presents the posterior aperture of the Vidian canal for the passage of the Vidian nerve and artery. Its outer half articulates, by means of a synchondrosis, with the petrous portion of the temporal, and between the two bones, on the under surface of the skull, is a furrow, the sulcus tubce, for the lodgment of the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube. In front of the spine the circumference presents a concave, sen-ated edge, bevelled at the expense of the inner table below, and of the outer table above, which articu- lates with the squamous portion of the temporal bone. At the tip of the great wing is a triangular portion, beveUed at the expense of the internal surface, for articulation with the antero-inferior angle of the parietal bone ; this region is named the jjterion. Internal to this is a triangular, seiTated surface, for articulation with the frontal bone ; this surface is continuous internally with the sharp inner edge, which forms the lower boundary of the sphenoidal fissure, and externally with the serrated margin for articulation with the malar bone. The lesser wings or orbitosphenoids (alae parvae) are two thin, triangular plates, \\hich arise from the upper and anterior parts of the body, and, projecting transversely outwards, terminate in sharp points (fig. 301). The superior surface of each is smooth, flat, broader internally than externally, and supports part of the frontal lobe of the brain. The inferior surface forms the back part of the roof of the orbit, and the upper boundary of the sphenoidal fissure (fissura orbitalis superior). This fissure is of a triangular form, and leads from the cavity of the cranium into that of the orbit: it is bounded internally by the body; above, by the lesser wing ; below, by the inner margin of the orbital surface of the greater wing ; and is completed exter- nally by the frontal bone. It transmits the tliifd, the fourth and the sixth nerves, the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, some filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, the orbital branch of the middle meningeal artery', a recurrent branch from the lachrymal artery to the dura mater, and the ophthalmic vein. The anterior border is serrated for articulation with the frontal bone. The posterior border, smooth and rounded, IS received into the Sjdvian fissure of the brain; the inner extremity of this border forms the anterior clinoid process (processus clinoideus anterius), which gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli; it is sometimes joined to the middle clinoid process by a spicule of bone, and when this occurs the termina- tion of the groove for the internal carotid artery is converted into a foramen (carotico-clinoid). The lesser wing is connected to the body by two roots, the upper thin and flat, the lower thick and triangular; between the two roots