THE SKIN 71 the muscle thus tends to squeeze the sebaceous secretiou out from the duct of ^''Vhe'febaceous glands arc small, sacculated, glandular organs, lodged in the substance of the corium. They are found in most parts of the skin, but are especially abundant in the scalp and face ; they are also very numerous around the apertures of the anus, nose, mouth, and external ear, but are wanting m the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. Each gland consists of a single duct, more or less capacious, which emerges from a cluster of sma 1 secreting pouches or saccules. The saccuh connected mth each duct vary, as a rule, in number from two to five but in some instances may be as many as twenty. Each saccule is composed ot a transparent, colourless membrane, enclosing a number of epithehal cells, ihose of the outer or marginal layer are small and polyhedral, and are continuous mth the Uuing cells of the duct. The remainder of the sac is fiUed with larger cells, containing fat, except in the centre, where the cells have become broken up, leaving a cavity filled with their debris and a mass of fatty matter which constitutes the sebaceous secretion. The ducts open most frequently into the hair- foUicles, but occasionaUy upon the general sui-face, as in the labia minora and the free marc^n of the hps. On the nose and face the glands are of large size, distinctly lobulated, and often become much enlarged from the accumulation ot pent-up secretion. The largest sebaceous Fig. 89.—Coiled tube of a sweat-gland cut in various directions. :. Longitudinal section of tlio proximal part of the coiled tube. b. Transverse section ot the same. c. Longitu- dinal section of the distal part of tlie coiled tube, rf. Transverse section of the same. (Prom Klein and Noble Smith's ' Atlas of Histology.') ww^-— ^ glands are those found in the eye Uds—the Meibomian glands. The sudoriferous or sweat glands are the organs by which water and traces of organic material are excreted by the sldn. They are found in almost every part of this structure, and are situated in small pits on the under surface of the corium, or, more fre- quently, in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, surrounded by a quantity of adipose tissue. They are small, lobular, reddish bodies, consisting of a single convoluted tube, from which the efferent duct proceeds upwards through the corium and cuticle, becomes somewhat dilated at its extremity, and opens on the surface of the cuticle by an obhque valve-like aperture. The duct, as it passes through the epidermis, presents a spiral arrangement, being twisted Uke a corkscrew in those parts where the epidermis is thick ; where, however, the epidermis is thin, the spiral arrangement does not exist; the spiral course of these ducts is particularly distinct in the thick cuticle of the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. In the superficial layers of the corium the duct is straight, but in the deeper layers it is convoluted or even twisted. The size of the glands varies. They are especially large in those regions where the amount of perspiration is great, as in the axillae, where they form a thin, mammillated layer of a reddish colour, which corresponds exactly to the situation of the hair in this region ; they are large also in the groin. Their number varies. Thev are most numerous on the palms of the hands, presenting, according to Krause, 2^800 orifices on a square inch of the integument, and are rather less numerous on the soles of the feet; in both of these situations the orifices of the ducts are exceedingly regular, and open on the curved ridges. In other situa- tions the glands are more irregularly scattered, but the number in a given extent of surface presents a fairly uniform average. In the neck and back they are least numerous, their number amounting to 417 on the square inch (Krause). Their total number is estimated by the same writer at 2,381,248, and he calculates that the whole of these glands would present an evaporating surface of about eight square inches. Each gland consists of a single tube intricately convoluted, terminating at one end by a blind extremity, and opening at the other end upon the surface of the skin. The wall of the duct is thick, the lumen seldom