TEMPORAL BONES 231 and extends to the apex of the bone ; it forms part of the cochlea, vestibule, superior semicircular canal, and inner wall of the tympanic cavity. A second (omstholic) appears at the promontory on the inner wall of the tympanum and surrounds the fenestra rotunda ; it forms the floor of the tympanum and vestibule, surrounds the carotid canal, invests the outer and lower part of the cochlea, and spreads inwards below the internal auditory meatus. A third (pteroHc) roofs in the antrum and tympanic cavity; „„„ , , ^ ^x. . Fig. 299.—Temporal bone at birth. Outer aspect. while the Squamous portion Petrosquamous suture T ijmpanic . ring fourth (epiotic) appears near the posterior semicircular canal and ex- tends to form the mastoid process (VroUk). 3. The tympanic ring is an incom- plete circle in the concavity of which is a gi'oove, the sulcus i,ympanicus, for the attach- ment of the circumference of the membraua tympani. This ring expands to form the tympanic plate, and is ossified in membrane from a single centre which appears about the third month. A fourth part, the styloid process, is developed from the proximal part of the cartilage of the second visceral or hyoid arch by two centres : one for the base appears before birth and is termed the tympano- hyal; the other, comprising the rest of the process, is named the stylo-hyal, and does not appear until after birth. The tympanic ring unites with the squamous portion shortly before birth; the petromastoid and squamous portions join during the first year, and the tympano-hyal portion of the styloid process about the same time (figs. 299 and 300). The stylo-hyal does not unite with the rest of the bone until after puberty, and in some skulls never at all. The chief subsequent changes in the temporal bone apart from increase in size are : (1) The tympanic ring ex- Petro-iuastoid portion Fig. 300.- -Temporal bone at birth. Inner aspect. Sq uamous portion Petrosquamous suture Eminentia arcuata tends outwards and backwards to form the tympanic plate. This extension does not, however, take place at an equal rate all round the circumference of the ring, but occurs most rapidly on its anterior and posterior portions, and these outgrowths meet and blend, and thus, for a time, there exists in the floor of the meatus a foramen, the foramen of Huschke: this foramen is usually closed about the fifth year, but may persist throughout life. (2) The glenoid cavity is at first extremely shallow, and looks outwards as well as downwards ; it becomes deeper and is ultimately directed downwards. Its change in direction is accounted for as follows : The part of the squamous temporal which supports it lies at first below the level of the zygoma. As, however, the base of the skull increases in width, this lower part of the squama is directed horizontally inwards to contribute to the middle fossa of the skull, and its surfaces therefore come to look upwards and downwards ; the attached portion of the zygomatic arch also becomes everted, and projects like a shelf at right angles to the squama. (3) The mastoid portion is at first quite flat, and the stylo-mastoid foramen and rudimentary styloid process lie immediately behind the tympanic ring. With the development of the air-cella the outer part C Fossa suharcuata Meatus acusticus iniernus