THE CEREBELLUM 831 from the cells of the smaller grey nuclei in the cerebellar white substance, and others from the cells of the cerebellar cortex. They are continued upwards beneath the corpora quadrigemina, and the fibres of the two peduncles undergo a complete decussation in front of the Sylvian aqueduct. Having crossed the middle line they divide into ascending and descending groups of fibres, the former ending in the red nucleus, the thalamus, and the nucleus of the tlm-d nerve, while the descending fibres can be traced as far as the dorsal part of the pons ; Cajal believes them to be continued into the anterior column of the spinal cord. As ah-eady stated (page 806), the greater part of the tract of Gowers passes to the cerebellum, whicli it reaches by way of the superior peduncle. The middle peduncles are the largest, and are formed by the transverse fibres of the pons. They enter tlic cerebellum between the margins of the great horizontal fissure, and their fibres are grouped into two main bundles : one, consisting of the upper transverse fibres of the pons, spreads out in the infero-lateral part of the hemisphere ; the other, comprising the lower transverse fibres of the pons, radiates into the upi^er part of the hemisphere. The middle peduncle is composed entirely of centripetal fibres, which arise from tlie cells of the nuclei pontis of the opposite side and terminate in the cerebellar cortex. The inferior peduncles consist mainly of afferent fibres, and are continuous below with the restiform bodies of the medulla oblongata.* They pass at first upwards and outwards, forming part of the lateral walls of the fourth ventricle, and then bend abruptly backwards to enter the cerebellum between the middle and superior peduncles. The inferior peduncle contains the follo^^ang fasciculi : (1) the direct cerebellar tract of the spinal cord, wliich terminates mainly in the superior vermis ; (2) fibres from the nucleus gracilis and nucleus cuneatus of the same and of the opposite sides; (3) fibres from the opposite olivary body; (4) crossed and uncrossed fibres from the reticular formation of the medulla ; (5) vesti- bular fibres, derived partly from the vestibular division of the auditory nerve and partly from the nuclei in whicli this division terminates—these fibres occupy the inner segment of the peduncle and divide into ascending and descending groups of fibres ; the ascending fibres partly end in the roof nucleus of the opposite side of the cerebellum ; (6) cerebello-bulbar fibres which come from the opposite roof nucleus and probably from the nucleus dentatus, and are said to end in the nucleus of Deiters and in the formatio reticularis of the medulla oblongata. The valve of Vieussens, or superior medullary velum, is a thin, transparent lamina of white matter, which stretches across from one superior peduncle to the other; on the dorsal surface of its lower half the folia of the lingula are prolonged. It forms, together with the superior peduncles, the roof of the upper part of the fourth ventricle, and is continuous with the central white stem of the cerebellum. It is narrow above, where it passes beneath the corpora quadrigemina, and broader below, at its connection with the white substance of the superior vermis. A slightly elevated ridge, the froenulum veli, descends upon the upper part of the valve from between the lower corpora quadrigemiaa, and on either side of this the foixrth nerve emerges. The inferior medullary velum is a thin layer of white substance, which is prolonged from the white centre of the medulla above and on either side of the nodule, and assists in forming a part of the roof of the fourth ventricle. Somewhat semilunar in shape, it is continuous with the white substance of the cerebellum by its convex edge, while its thin concave margin is apparently free. In reality, however, it is continuous with the epithelium of the ventricle, which is prolonged downwards from the inferior medullary velum to the ligulse. The two medullary vela are in contact with each other along their line of emei-gence from the white substance of the cerebellum ; and this line of contact forms the summit of the roof of the fourth ventricle, wliich, in a vertical section through tlie cavity, appears as a pointed angle. yti-ictly speaking, each inferior peduncle consists of an inner and an outer segment, the ■ of which is the restiform body.