SYNDESMOLOGY 434 The Semilunar Fibro-cartilages (fig. 471) are two crescentic lamellae, which serve to deepen the surfaces of the head of the tibia for articulation with the condyles of tlie femur. The periplieral border of each cartilage is thicli, convex, and attached to the inside of the capsule of the knee ; the opposite border is thin, concave, and free. Their upper surfaces are concave, and in relation with the condyles of the femur ; tlieir lower surfaces are flat,' and rest upon the head of the tibia; botli surfaces of tlie cartilages are smooth, and invested by synovial membrane. Each cartilage covers neai-ly two-thirds of the periphery of the corresponding artictdar surface of the tibia.' The Internal Semilunar Fibro-cartilage (meniscus medialis) is nearly semicircular in form, a little elongated from before backwards, and broader behind than in front; its anterior extremity, thin and pointed, is attached to a depression on the anterior margin of the head of the tibia, in front of the anterior crucial ligament; its posterior extremity is fixed to the depression behind the spine, between the attachments of the external semi- lunar fibro-cartUage and the posterior crucial ligament. The External Semilunar Fibro-cartilage (meniscus lateralis) forms nearly an entire circle, covering a larger portion of the articular surface than the internal one. It is grooved on its outer side for the tendon of the Poj)liteus muscle, which separates it from the external lateral ligament. Its extremities, at their insertion, are interposed between the two extremities of the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage ; the anterior is attached in front of the spine of the tibia to the outer side of, and behind, the anterior crucial ligament, with which it blends ; the posterior is attached behind the spine of the tibia and in front of the posterior extremity of the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. The anterior attachment of the external semilunar cartilage is twisted on itself so that its free margin looks backwards and upwards, its anterior end resting on a sloping shelf of bone on the front of the external tubercle of the tibial spine. Close to its posterior attachment it gives off a strong fasciculus, the ligament of Wrisberg, which passes obliquely upwards and inwards, to be inserted into the inner condyle of the femur, immediately behind the attachment of the posterior crucial ligament. Occasionally a small fasci- culus is given off which passes forwards to be inserted mto the back part of the anterior crucial ligament. The external semilunar fibro-cartilage wives off from its anterior convex margin a fasciculus wliich forms the transverse ligament. The Transverse Ligament (lig. transversum genu) is a band of fibres which passes transversely from the anterior convex margin of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage to the anterior convex margin of the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage ; its thiclmess varies considerably in different subjects, and it is sometimes absent. The Coronary Ligaments (ligamenta coronaria) are merely portions of the capsular ligament, wliich connect the periphery of each of the semilunar fibro-cartilages with the margin of the head of the tibia. The Synovial Membrane of the knee-joint is the largest and most exten- sive in the body. Commencing at the upper border of the patella, it forms a short cul-de-sac beneath the" Quadriceps extensor tendon, on the lower part of the front of the shaft of the femur : this very frequently communicates with a synovial bursa interposed between the tendon and the front of the femur, by an orifice of variable size. The pouch of synovial membrane between the Extensor tendon and front of the femur is supported, during the movements of the knee, by a small muscle, the Subcrureus, which is inserted into it. On either side of the patella, the synovial membrane extends beneath the aponeurosis of the Vastus, and more especially beneath that of the Vastus internus. Below the patella it is separated from the anterior hgament by a considerable quantity of adipose tissue, known as the infrapatellar pad. In this situation it sends'into the interior of the joint a triangular prolonga- tion which extends from the anterior part of the joint below the patella to the front of the intercondyloid notch. This fold has been termed the ligamentum mucosum (plica synovialis patellaris). It also sends off two fringe-likc folds, called tlio ligamenta alaria (plicis alares) which extend from the sides of the ligamentum mucosum, upwards and laterally between the patella and iemur. On either side of the joint, it passes downwards from the femur, lining the