677 RADIAL ARTERY The branches of the radial artery may be divided into three groups, coiTe- sponding with the three regions in which the vessel is situated. In the forearm. Radial recurrent. Muscular. Anterior radial carpal. Superficialis volae. At the wrist. Posterior radial carpal. First dorsal interosseous. Dorsales poUicis. Dorsalis indicia. In the hand. Princeps pollicis. Radialis indicis. Perforating. Palmar interosseous. Recurrent. The radial recurrent (a. recurrens radialis) is given o£E immediately below the elbow. It ascends between the branches of the musculo-spiral nerve, lying on the Supinator brevis and then between the Brachio-radialis and Brachiahs anticus, supplying these muscles and the elbow-joint, and anastomosmg with the anterior terminal branch of the superior profunda. The muscular branches (rami musculares) are distributed to the muscles on the radial side of the forearm. The anterior radial carpal (ramus carpeus volaris) is a small vessel which arises near the lower border of the Pronator quadratus, and, running inwards in front of the cai-pus, anastomoses with the anterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery, lu this way an arterial anastomosis, the anterior carpal arch, is formed in front of the WTrist: it is joined by branches from the anterior interosseous above, and by recurrent branches from the deep palmar arch below, and gives off twigs which descend to supply the articulations of the wrist and carpus. The superficialis volae (ramus volaris superficialis) arises from the radial artery, just where this vessel is about to -wind round the outer side of the wrist. Rimning forwards, it passes through, occasionally over, the muscles of the thumb, which it suppHes, and sometimes anastomoses with the terminal portion of the ulnar artery, completing the superficial palmar arch. Tliis vessel varies considerably in size : usually it is very small, and terminates in the muscles of the thiunb ; sometimes it is as large as the continuation of the radial. The posterior radial carpal (ramus carpeus dorsaUs) is a small vessel which arises beneath the Extensor tendons of the thumb ; crossing the carpus transversely towards the inner border of the hand, it anastomoses with the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar, forming the posterior carpal arch, which is joined by the termination of the anterior interosseous arter}'-. From this arch are given off two slender dorsal interosseous arteries, which run forwards on the Third and Fourth dorsal interossei and bifurcate into dorsal digital branches which supply the adjacent sides of the middle, ring, and little fingers respectively, communicating with the collateral digital branches of the superficial palmar arch. Near their origins they anastomose with the deep palmar arch by the superior perforating arteries, and near their points of bifurcation with the digital vessels of the superficial palmar arch by the inferior perforating arteries. The first dorsal interosseous arises beneath the Extensor tendons of the thumb, sometimes with the posterior radial carpal; running forwards on the Second dorsal interosseous muscle it divides into two dorsal digital branches, which supply the adjoining sides of the index and middle fingers ; it forms anastomoses similar to those of the other two dorsal interosseous arteries. The dorsales pollicis are two small vessels which run along the sides of the dorsal aspect of the thumb. They usually arise separately, but occasionally by a common trunk, near the base of the &xst metacarpal bone. The dorsalis indicis, also a small branch, rmis along the radial side of the back of the index finger, sending a few branches to the Abductor indicis. The princeps pollicis (a. princeps polhcis) arises from the radial just as it turns inwards to the deep part of the hand ; it descends between the Abductor indicis and Adductor obliquus polhcis, along the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the thumb to the base of the first phalanx, where it lies beneath the tendon of the Flexor longus polhcis and divides into two branches. These make their appearance between the inner and outer insertions of the Adductor obliquus polhcis, and run along the sides of the palmar aspect of the tliumb, forming on the palmar surface of the last phalanx an arch, from which branches are distributed to the integument and subcutaneous tissue of the thumb.