DEVELOPMENT OF THE PARIETES 105 whicli occurs more frequently on the right than on the left side. This bilatera cond tion of the primitive sternum would serve to explam the occui-rence of Su-es or holes £ the bone, as well as that rare anomaly a completely divided stemuL Paterson * on the other hand, after reviewing the literatui^e on this SubTecrand giving the results of his own observations on the embryomc and adult conditions of the sternum in EiG. 131.—Sagittal section of cephalic end of notochord. (Keibel.) fossa Mesode ordal tilage man and some of the lower animals says: 'The weight of evidence is all on the side of the primary association of the sternum with the shoulder girdle and its secondary connection with the ribs.' There is reason to beUeve that the upper part of the manubrium sterni represents the precoracoid element of the shoulder girdle. The skull.—Up to a certain stage the development of the skull corre- sponds with that of the vertebral column ; but it is modified later in association with the expansion of the brain-vesicles, the formation of the organs of smell, sight, and hearing, and the development of the mouth and pharynx. The notochord extends as far for- wards in the base of the future skull as the anterior end of the mid-brain, and becomes partly surrounded by meso- derm (fig. 131). The posterior part . . of this mesodermal investment corresponds with the future basi-occiput, and shows a subdivision into four segments, which are separated by the roots of the hypoglossal nerve. The mesoderm then extends over the brain-vesicles, and thus the entire brain is enclosed by a mesodermal investment, which is termed the membranous primordial cranium. From the inner layer of this the bones of Fig. 132.—Diagrams of the cartilaginous cranium. (Wiedersheim.) SiUcatiov of olfactory pit Ethmoid pla te — and nasal Olfactory organ Anter '. cerv vertebra Pituitary fossa.^ Trahecula cranii' Situation of otic vesicle Parachordal cartilage Notochord.. Extension around > olfactory organ Foramina for olfactory nerves Eyeball - Pituitary fossa Bast-cranial ' cartilage -Otic vesicle Notochord the skidl and the membranes of the brain are developed ; from the outer layer the muscles, blood-vessels, true sldn, and subcutaneous tissues of the scalp. In the shark and dog-fish this membranous cranium undergoes complete chondrification, and forms the cartilaginous skull or chondrocranium of these animals. In mammals, on the other hand, the process of chondrification is limited to the base of the skull—the roof and sides being covered in by membrane. Thus * The Uuvian Slcrntm, by A. Melville Paterson, 1904.