MYOLOGY 456 situations, as on the outer side of a limb, and thinner on the inner side llie deep tasciae assist the muscles in their actions, by the degree of tension and pressure they make upon their surfaces ; and, in certain situations where they are strengthened by the presence m them of degenerated muscular hbres which have become converted into fibrous sheets, the degree ot tension and pressure is regulated by the associated muscles, as, for instance by the iensor fasciae femoris and Gluteus maximus in the tiiigh, by the Biceps in the upper and lo\\'er extremities, and Palmaris longus m tliie hand In the limbs, the fascite not only invest the entire hmb, but give oflf septa which separate tlie various muscles, and are attached beneath to the periosteum : these prolongations of fasciae are usually spoken of as intermuscular septa. i he Muscles and Fasciae may be arranged, according to the general division of the body, into those of tlie cranium, face, and neck ; those of the trunk ; those of the upper extremity ; and those of the lower extremity. MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THE CRANIUM AND FACE The Muscles of the Cranium and Face consist of ten groups, arranged according to the region in ^^■hich they are situated. I. Cranial Region. VI. Maxillary Region. II. Auricular Region. VII. Mandibular Region. III. Palpebral Region. VIII. Intermaxillary Region. IV. Orbital Region. IX. Temporo-mandibular Region. V. Nasal Region. X. Pteiygo-mandibular Region. Tlie muscles contained in each of these groups are the following : /. Cranial Region. Compressor naris. Occipito-frontalis. Compressor narium minor. Depressor alae nasi. II. Atiricular Region. Attrahens auriculam. VI. Maxillary Region. AttoUens auriculam. Levator labii superioris proprius. Retrahens auriculam. Levator anguli oris. Zygomaticus major. ///. Palpebral Region. Zygomaticus minor. Orbicularis palpebrarum. Tensor tarsi. VII. Mandibular Region. Corrugator supercilii. - Levator menti. Depressor labii inferioris. IV. Orbital Region. Depressor anguh oris. Levator palpebrae superioris Rectus superior. VIII. Intermaxillary Region. Rectus inferior. Orbicularis oris. Rectus internus. Buccinator. . Rectus externus. Risorius. Obliquus oculi superior. Obliquus oculi inferior. IX. Temporo-mandibulm Region. Masseter. V. Nasal Region. Temporal. Pyramidalis nasi. Levator labii superioris alseque nasi. A'. Pterygo-mandibidar Region. Dilatator naris posterior. Pteiygoideus externus. Dilatator naris anterior. Pterygoideus internus. I. Cranial Region Occipito-frontalis The superficial fascia in the cranial region is a fii-m, dense, fibro-fatly layer, intimately adherent to the integument, and to the Occipito-frontalis and its tendinous aponeurosis ; it is continuous, behind, with the su]iprficial fascia at the back part of tlie neck ; and, laterally, is continued over tlio temporal fascia. It contains betAveen its layers the superficial vcs.sels and nerves and mucli granular fat.