1125 THE PERITONEUM (I) In the pelvis.—The peritoneum here follows closely the surfaces of the pelvic viscera and the inequalities of the pelvic \\'alls, and presents important differences in the two sexes, (a) In the male it encircles the pelvic colon, from which it is reflected to the posterior wall of tlie pelvis as a fold, the pelvic mesocolon. It then leaves the sides and, finally, the front of the rectum, and is continued on to the bladder ; on either side of the rectum it forms a fossa, tlie pararectal fossa, which varies in size \vith the distension of the recturn. In front of the rectum the peritoneum forms the recto-vesical pouch, which is limited laterally by peritoneal folds extending from the sides of the bladder to the rectum and sacrum. These folds are known from their position as the recto-vesical or sacro-geniial folds. The peritoneum of the anterior pelvic waU covers the superior surface of the bladder, and on either side of this viscus forms a depression, termed the paravesical fossa, and limited externally by the fold of peritoneum covering the vas deferens. The size of this fossa is dependent on the state of distension of the bladder; when the bladder is empty, a variable fold of peritoneum, the plica vesicalis transversa, divides the fossa into two portions. On the peritoneum between the paravesical and pararectal fossee the only elevations are those produced by the ureters and the internal Uiac vessels. (6) In the female, pararectal and paravesical fossae similar to those in the male are present: the outer limit of the paravesical fossa is the peritoneum Fig. 925.—Horizontal disposition of the peritoneum in the lower part of the abdomen. Rectus Erector spinas investing the round ligament of the uterus. The recto-vesical pouch is, however, divided by the uterus and vagina into a small anterior utero-vesical and a large, deep, posterior recto-vaginal pouch. The sacro-genital folds form the margins of the latter, and are continued on to the back of the uterus to form a transverse fold, the torus uterinus. The hroad ligaments extend from the sides of the uterus to the lateral walls of the pelvis ; they contain in their free margins the Fallopian tubes, and in their posterior layers the ovaries. Below, the broad ligaments are continuous with the peritoneum on the lateral walls of the pelvis. On the lateral pelvic wall behind the attach- ment of the broad ligament, in the angle between the elevations produced by the diverging internal and external Uiac vessels, is a slight fossa, ovarian fossa, in which the ovary normally lies. (2) In the lower abdomen (fig. 925).—Starting from the linea alba, below the level of the transverse colon, and tracing the continuity of the peritoneum in a horizontal direction to the right, the membrane covers the inner surface of the abdominal wall almost as far as the outer border of the Quadratus lumborum ;