ANGIOLOGY C22 arch by tvu iiicloiitatioii or angle. These conditions persist, to some extent, in the adult, where His found that the average diameter of the spindle exceeded that of the isthmus by 3 mm. (about one-eighth of an inch). Distinct from this diffuse and moderate stenosis at the isthmus is the condition known as coarctation of the aorta, or marked stenosis often amounting to complete obHteration of its lumen, seen in adults and occurring at or near, oftenest a little below, the insertion of the ductus arteriosus into the aorta. According to Bonnet * this coarctation is never found in the foetus or at birth, and is due to an abnormal extension of the peculiar tissue of the ductus into the aortic wall, which gives rise to a simultaneous stenosis of both vessels as it contracts after birth—the ductus is usually obliterated in these cases. An extensive collateral circulation is set up, by the superior intercostals, internal mammaries, and the posterior scapular branches of the transversalis colli above the stenosis, and below it by the first four aortic intercostals, the phrenics, and the superficial and deep epigastrics. Peculiarities.—The height to which the aorta rises in the chest is usually about an inch below the upper border of the sternum ; but it may ascend nearly to the top of the bone. Occasionally it is found an inch and a half, more rarely two or even three inches below this point. Sometimes the aorta arches over the root of the right instead of over that of the left lung, and passes down on the right side of the vertebral column, a con- dition which is formd in birds. In such cases all the thoracic and abdominal viscera are transposed. Less frequently the aorta, after arching over the root of the right lung, is directed to its usual position on the left side of the vertebral column, this peculiaritj' not bemg accompanied by any transposition of the viscera. The aorta occasionally divides, as in some quadrupeds, into an ascending and a descending trunk, the former of which is directed vertically upwards, and subdivides into thi-ee branches, to supply the head and upper extremities. Sometimes the aorta subdivides soon after its origin into two branches, which soon reimite. In one of these cases the cesophagus and trachea were found to pass through the interval left by their division ; this is the normal condition of the vessel in the reptilia. Applied Anatomy.—Of all the vessels of the arterial system, the aorta, and more especially its arch, is most frequently the seat of disease; hence it is important to consider some of the consequences that may ensue from aneurysm of this part. Aneurysm of the ascending aorta, in the situation of the sinuses of Valsalva, in the great majority of cases, affects the anterior sinus ; this is mainly o^ving to the fact that the regurgitation of blood upon the sinuses takes place chiefly on the anterior aspect of the vessel. As the aneurysmal sac enlarges, it may compress any or all of the structures in immediate proximity with it, but chiefly projects towards the right anterior side ; and, consequently, interferes mauily with those structures that have a corresponding relation with the vessel. If it project forwards, it may absorb the sternum and the cartilages of the ribs, usually on the right side, and appear as a pulsatmg tumour on the front of the chest, just below the manubrium ; or it may bm-st into the pericardium, or may compress, or open into the right limg, the trachea, bronchi, or oesophagus. In the majority of cases it bursts into the cavity of the pericardium, the patient suddenly drops down dead, and, upon a post-mortem examination, the pericardial sac is found fuU of blood ; or it may compress the right auricle, or the pulmonary artery, and adjoining part of the right ventricle, and open into one or the other of these parts. It may press upon the superior vena cava or the innominate veins, causing great venous engorgement. The face becomes livid and swollen, the right arm and anterior thoracic wall oedematous, and the con- gestion of the brain gives rise to headache and vertigo. An aneurysm has occasionally perforated into the superior vena cava, setting up an arterio-venouB aneurysm. When this happens the patient suddenly becomes very short of breath, intensely congested Mid oedematous in the face and upper part of the body, and develops a palpable thriU and a continuous hummmg murmur, loudest during systole, over the sternum. Death follows a few days or weeks after such a perforation ; and somewhat similar sjnnptoms are occasioned ■when an aortic aneurysm erodes and bursts into the pulmonary artery. Regardmg the arch of the aorta, the student is reminded that the vessel hes agamst the trachea, oesophagus, and thoracic duct; that the recurrent larjoageal nerve winds around it; and that from its upper part are given off three large trunks, which supply the head, neck, and upper extremities. Now, an aneurysmal tumour taking origin irom tue posterior part of the vessel, its most usual site, may press upon the trachea and give rise to the sign known as "tracheal tugging," impede the breathing, or produce cough, dj^pmea, bronchiectasis, h£emoptysis, or stridulous breathing, or it may ultimately burst into that tube, producing fatal hemorrhage. Again, its pressure on the left recurrent lar>nigcal nerve may give rise to symptoms of laryngeal paralysis ; or it may press upon tlie thoracic duct and destroy life by inanition ; or it may involve the esophagus, producing d.^^pliagia. and has not infrequently been mistaken for esophageal stricture ; or it may burst into the oesophagus, when fatal haemorrhage will occur. Corapres.sion or stretchmg o^ J^ sym- pathetic filaments may, in the former case, produce dilatation of the pupil: m the latter. » mr. (Ir Mid., Paris, 1903.