1244 SPLANCHNOLOGY The arterioles terminate in capillaries, which traverse the pulp in all directions; their walls become much attenuated, lose their tubular character, and the cells of the adenoid tissue of which they are composed become altered, presenting a branched appearance, and acquiring processes which are directly connected with the processes of the sustentacular cells of the pulp (fig. 1029). In this manner the capillary vessels terminate, and the blood flowing thi-ough them finds its way into the interstices of the reticulated tissue formed by the branched connective-tissue corpuscles of the splenic pulp. Thus the blood passing tlu-ough the spleen is brought into intimate relation with the elements of the pulp, and no doubt undergoes important changes. After these changes have taken place the blood is collected from the interstices of the tissue by the rootlets of the veins, which commence much in the same way as the arteries terminate. WTiere a vein is about to commence, the connective-tissue corpuscles of the pulp arrange themselves in rows, in such a way as to form an elongated space or sinus. They become changed in shape, being elongated and spindle-shaped, and overlap each other at their extremities. They thus form a sort of endothelial linmg of the path or sinus, which is the radicle of a vein. On the outer surface of these cells are seen delicate transverse lines or markings, which are due to minute elastic fibrillae arranged in a circular manner around the sinus. Thus the channel obtains an external investment, and gradually becomes converted into a small vein, which after a time attains a coat of ordinary connective tissue, lined by a layer of fusiform epithelial cells which are continuous with the supporting cells of the pulp. The smaller veins unite to form larger ones ; these do not accompany the arteries, but soon enter the trabecular sheaths of the capsule, and by their junction form six or more branches, which emerge from the hilus, and, uniting, constitute the splenic vein, the largest radicle of the portal vein. Fig. 1029.—Section of the spleen, showing the termination of the small blood-vessels. Supiiortinq cells Vessel undergoing hjmphoid change The veins are remarkable for their numerous anastomoses, while the arteries hardly anastomose at all. The IjTuphatics are described on page 787. The nerves are derived from branches of the right and left semilunar ganglia, and from the right pneumogastric nerve. Surface Marking.—The spleen is situated under cover of the ribs of the left side, being separated from them by the Diaplu-agm, and above by a small portion of the lower margin of the left lung and pleura. Its position corresponds to the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. It is placed very obliquely. ' It is oblique in two directions, viz. from above down- wards and outwards, and also from above downwards and forwards ' (Cunningham). ' Its highest and lowest points are on a level respectively with the ninth dorsal and first lumbar spines ; its inner end is distant about an inch and a half from the median plane of the body, and its outer end about reaches the mid-axillary line ' (Quain). Applied Analomy.—Injury of the spleen is less common than that of the liver, on account of its protected situation and connections. It may be ruptured by direct or indirect violence; torn by a broken rib ; or injin-ed by a punctured or gunshot wound. When the organ is enlarged, the chance of rupture is increased. The great risk is hajmorrhage, owing to the vascularity of the organ, and the absence of a proper system of capillaries. The injury is not, however, necessarily fatal, and this would appear to be due, m a great measure, to the contractile ]iower of the capsule, which narrows the wound and jarevents the escape of blood. In ca.ses where the diagnosis is clear, and the symptoms nidicate danger to life, laparotomy must be perfonned, and if the bajmorrhage cannot be stayed by ordinary surgical methods, the spleen must be removed.