685 THORACIC AORTA the correspoudiug intercostal space obliquely towards the angle of the upper rib, and thence is continued forward in the subcostal groove. It is placed at lirst between the pleura and the posterior intercostal membrane, then it pierces this membrane, and lies between it and the External intercostal muscle as far as the rib angle ; from this onward it runs between the External and Internal intercostal muscles, and anastomoses in front with the anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary or niusculo-phrenic. Each artery is accompanied by a vein and a nerve, the former being above and the latter below the artery, except in the upper spaces, where the nerve is at first above the artery. The highest aortic intercostal artery anastomoses with the superior intercostal, and may form the chief supply of the second intercostal space. The two lower intercostal arteries are continued anteriorly from the intercostal spaces into the abdominal wall, and anastomose \vith the subcostal, superior epigastric and lumbar arteries. Each intercostal artery gives off the follo^ving branches : Posterior or dorsal. Collateral intercostal. Muscidar. Lateral cutaneous. The posterior or dorsal hrancli (ramus posterior) runs vnih. the posterior division of a spinal nerve and passes backwards through a small opening which is bounded above and below by the necks of the ribs and adjacent transverse processes, internally by the vertebral body, and externally by the anterior costo-transverse ligament. It gives off a spinal branch, which enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen and is distributed to the spinal cord and its membranes, and to the bodies of the vertebrae, in the same manner as the lateral spinal branches from the vertebral. The collateral intercostal branch comes off from the intercostal artery near the angle of the rib, and descends to the upper border of the rib below, along which it courses to anastomose with the anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary. Muscular branches (rami musculares) are given to the Intercostal and Pectoral muscles and to the Serratus magnus ; they anastomose with the superior and long thoracic branches of the axillary artery. The lateral cutaneous branches (rami cutanei laterales) accompany the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves, and divide into anterior and posterior branches. Mammary branches are given oS by the intercostal arteries in the third, fourth, and fifth spaces. They supply the mammary gland, and increase considerably in size during the period of lactation. Applied Anatomy.—The position of the intercostal vessels should be borne in mind in performing the operation of paracentesis thoracis. The puncture should never be made nearer the middle line posteriorly than the angle of the rib, as the artery crosses the space internal to this point. In the lateral portion of the chest, where the puncture is usually made, the artery hes at the upper part of the intercostal space, and therefore the puncture should be made just above the upper border of the rib forming the lower boundary of the space. The subcostal arteries, so named because they lie below the last ribs, constitute the lowest pair of branches derived fi'om the thoracic aorta, and are in series with the intercostal arteries. Each passes along the lower border of the twelfth rib behind the kidney and in front of the Quadratus lumborum muscle, and is accompanied by the twelfth thoracic nerve. It then pierces the posterior aponeurosis of the Transversalis abdominis, and, passing forward between this muscle and the Internal oblique, anastomoses with the superior epigastric, lower intercostal, and lumbar arteries. The superior phrenic branches (aa. phrenicje superiores) are small branches arising from the lower part of the thoracic aorta; they are distributed to the posterior part of the upper surface of the Diaphragm, and anastomose with, the musculo-phrenic and comes nervi phrenici arteries. A small aberrant artery is sometimes fomid arising from the right side of the thoracic aorta near the origin of the right bronchial. It passes upwards and to the right behind the trachea and the oesophagus, and may anastomose with the right superior intercostal artery. It represents the remains of the right dorsal aortic trunk, and in a small proportion of cases is enlarged to form the first part of the right subclavian artery. The Abdominal Aorta (fig. 602) The abdominal aorta (aorta abdominalis) commences at the aortic opening of the Diaphragm, in front of the lower border of the body of the