287 CLAVICLE inner portion, consisting of the inner two-thirds, is of a rounded or prismatic form. The outer third presents two surfaces, an upper and a lower ; and two borders, an anterior and a posterior. The upper surface is fiat, rough, and marlced by impressions for the attachments of the Deltoid in front, and the Trapezius behind ; between these two impressions a small portion of the bone is subcutaneous. Tiie under surface is flat. At its posterior border, a little external to the point where the prismatic joins with the flattened portion, is a rough eminence, the conoid tubercle; this, in the natural position of the bone, sm-mounts the coracoid process of the scapula, and gives attachment to the conoid ligament. From this tubercle an oblique ridge, the oblique or trapezoid ridge, passes forvvards and outwards, and affords attachment to the trapezoid Ugament. The anterior border is concave, thin, and rough, and gives attach- ment to the Deltoid ; it frequently presents, at its mner part, a tubercle, the deltoid tubercle. The posterior border is convex, rough, thicker than the anterior, and gives attachment to the Trapezius. The inner two-thirds constitute the prismatic portion of the bone, which is curved so as to be convex in front, concave behind, and is marked by three borders, separating three sm-faces. The anterior border is continuous wnth. the anterior margin of the flat portion. Its outer portion is smooth, and Capsular ligament Fig. 349.—Left clavicle. Inferior surface. Capsular ligament corresponds to the interval between the attachment of the Pectoralis major and Dtiltoid; its inner part forms the lower boundary of an elliptical space for the attachment of the clavicular portion of the PectoraUs major, and approaches the posterior border of the bone. The superior border is continuous with the posterior margin of the flat portion, and separates the anterior from the posterior surface. Smooth and rounded externaUy, it becomes rough towards the mner third for the attachment of the Sterno- mastoid, and termmates at the upper angle of the sternal extremity. The posterior or subclavian border separates the posterior from the inferior surtace, and extends from the conoid tubercle to the rhomboid impression ; It terms the posterior boundary of the groove for the Subclavius muscle, and gives attachment to a layer of cervical fascia which envelops the Omo-hyoid.