SYNDESMOLOGY 414 radius, between it and the capitcUum of the luimerus. The forearm becomes fixed in a position of semiflexion, midway between supination and pronation, and great pain is comphxined of upon any attempt to move the joint. It should be noted that tlie synovial membrane of the superior radio-ulnar joint is directly continuous with that of the elbow- joint, and, therefore, any septic or tuberculous disease which affects the latter also involves the former joint. The superior radio-ulnar joint is always removed in an excision of the elbow (see p. 412). 2. Middle Radio-ulnar Union The shafts of the radius and ulna are connected by the Oblique ligament and the Interosseous membrane. The Oblique Ligament (chorda obliqua) (fig. 452) is a small, flattened, fibrous band, which extends obliquely do\vnwards and outwards, from the outer side of the tubercle of the ulna at the base of the coronoid process to the radius a little below the bicipital tuberosity. Its fibres run in the opposite direction to those of the interosseous membrane ; and it appears to be placed as a substitute for it in the upper part of the interosseous interval. It is sometimes wanting. The Interosseous Membrane (membrana interossea antibrachii) is a broad and thin plane of fibrous tissue descending obliquely do\™wards and inwards, from the interosseous ridge on the radius to that on the ulna ; the lower part of the membrane is attached to the posterior of the two fines into wliich the interosseous ridge of the radius divides. It is deficient above, commencing about an inch beneath the bicipital tuberosity of the radius ; is broader in the middle than at either extremity ; and presents an oval aperture just above its lower margin for the passage of the anterior interosseous vessels to the back of the forearm. This ligament serves to connect the bones, and to increase the extent of surface for the attachment of the deep muscles. Between its upper border and the oblique ligament an interval exists, through which the posterior interosseous vessels pass. Two or three fibrous bands are occasionally found on the posterior surface of this membrane; they descend obliquely from the ulna towards the radius, and have consequently a direction contrary to that of the other fibres. The membrane is in relation, in front, by its upper three-fourths, with, the Flexor longus poUicis on the outer side, and A\'ith the Plexor profundus digitorum on the inner, lying in the interval bet^'een which are the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve ; by its lower fourth witli the Pronator quadi-atus ; hehind, with the Supinator brevis, Extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, Extensor breyis pollicis. Extensor longus poUicis, Extensor indicis ; and, near the wTist, with the anterior interosseous artery and posterior mt«rosseous nerve. 3. Inferior Radio-ulnar Articulation (Articulatio Radioulnaris DiSTALIS) This is a pivot-jomt formed between the head of the ulna and the sigmoid cavity on the inner side of the lower end of the radius. The articular surfaces are connected together by the following ligaments : Anterior Radio-ulnar. Posterior Radio-ulnar. Interarticular Fibro-cartii age. The Anterior Radio-ulnar Ligament (fig. 456) is a narrow baud of fibres extending from the anterior margin of the sigmoid cavity of the radius to the anterior surface of the head of the ulna. The Posterior Radio-ulnar Ligament (fig. 457) extends between corre- sponding surfaces on the posterior aspect of the articulation. Tlie Interarticular Fibro-cartilage (discus articulans) (fig. 459) is tri- angular in shape, and is placed transversely beneath the head of the ulna, binding the lower ends of the ulna and radius firmly together. Its periphery is thicker than its centre, which is thin and occasionally perforated, it is attached by its apex to a depression which separates the styloid process ot the ulna from the head of that bone ; and by its base, which is thin, to the prominent edge of the radius, which separates the sigmoid cavity from the carpal articular surface. Its margins are united to the ligaments of the