585 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OP THE LEG Relations.—The Tibialis posticus is in relation by its superficial surface with the Soleus, from which it is separated by the deep transverse fascia, the Flexor longus digitorum, the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and the peroneal vessels ; by its deep surface, with the interosseous ligament, the tibia, fibula, and ankle-joint. Nerves.—The Popliteus is supplied by the fourth and fifth lumbar, and first sacral nerves, through the internal popUteal nerve; the Flexor longus digitorum and Tibialis posticus by the fifth lumbar and first sacral, and the Flexor longus hallucis by the fifth lumbar, and the first and second sacral nerves, througli the posterior tibial nerve. Actions.—The Popliteus assists in flexing the leg upon the thigh ; when the leg is flexed, it will rotate the tibia inwards. It is especially called into action at the beginning of the act of bending the knee, inasmuch as it produces the slight inward rotation of the tibia which is essential in the early stage of this movement. The Tibialis posticus is a direct extensor of the foot at the ankle joint; acting in conjunction with the Tibialis anticus, it turns the sole of the foot inwards (i.e. inverts the foot), antagonising the Peronei, which turn it outwards (evert it). In the sole of the foot the tendon of the Tibialis posticus lies directly below the inferior calcaneo-na^'icular ligament, and is therefore an important factor in maintaining the arch of the foot. The Flexor longus digitorum and Flexor longus hallucis are the direct flexors of the phalanges, and, continuing their action, extend the foot upon the leg; they assist the Gastrocnemius and Soleus in extending the foot, as in the act of walking, or in standing on tiptoe. Tn consequence of the oblique direction of the tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum, the toes would be drawn inwards, were it not for the Flexor accessorius muscle, \yhich is inserted into the outer side of its tendon, and draws it to the middle line of the foot during its action. Taldng their fixed point from the foot, these muscles serve to maintain the upright posture by steadying the tibia and fibida perpendicularly upon the ankle-joint. They also serve to raise these bones from the oblique position they assume in the stooping posture. 7. Fibular region Peroneus longus. Peroneus brevis. The Peroneus longus is situated at the upper part of the outer side of the leg, and is the more superficial of the two muscles. It arises from the head and upper two-tliii'ds of the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula, from the deep surface of the fascia, and from the intermuscular septa between it and the muscles on the front and back of the leg : occasionally also by a few fibres from the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Between its attach- ments to the head and to the shaft of the fibula there is a small area of bone from which no muscular fibres arise ; here the external popUteal nerve passes beneath the muscle. It termuiates in a long tendon, which runs behind the outer malleolus, in a groove common to it and the tendon of the Peroneus brevis, behuid which it hes; the gi-oove is converted into a canal by a fibrous band, and the tendons in it are invested by a common synovial membrane. The tendon then extends obliquely forwards across the outer side of the OS calcis, below the peroneal tubercle, in a separate fibrous sheath lined by a prolongation of the synovial membrane which lines the groove behind the malleolus. It crosses the outer side of the cuboid, and then runs on the under surface of that bone in a groove, which is converted into a canal by the long calcaneo-cuboid ligament and lined by a synovial membrane : the tendon then crosses the sole of the foot obliquely, and" is inserted into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe and the outer side of the mternal cuneiform. Occasionally it sends a sHp to the base of the second meta- tarsal bone. The tendon changes its direction at t-^A'o points : first, behind the external malleolus ; secondly, on the outer side of the cuboid bone ; in both of these situations the tendon is thickened, and, in the latter, a sesamoid fibro-cartilage, or sometimes a bone, is usually developed in its substance. The Peroneus brevis Hes under cover of the Peroneus longus, and is a shorter and smaller muscle. It arises from the lower two-thu-ds of the external surface of the shaft of the fibula, internal to the Peroneus lon<^us ;