601 THE HEART end of the body of the sternum into the pericardial sac. Curschmann,* however, argues that the heart itself necessarily lies almost in contact with the anterior wall of the thorax even in cases of the largest pericardial effusion, so tliat there is risk of piercing it if the puncture is made in the fourth or fifth left intercostal space within even so much as two or three inches of the sternal margin. He therefore advises that in moderately large peri- cardial effusions the trochar should be inserted in the left mamillary line, and outside it if the effusion is very large, in the fifth or sixth interspace. In consequence of the uncertain and varying position of the anterior reflexion of the pleura, transfixion of the pleural sac cannot always be avoided. Pericardiotomy is required when the effusion is of a purulent nature. In this operation a portion of the fifth or sixth costal cartilage is excised. An incision is made along the left border of the sternum from the upper border of the fourth cartilage to the seventh. Transverse incisions an inch long are then made outward.s from either extremity of this, and the rectangular flap thus formed reflected outwards. The fifth costal cartilage is now separated from the sternum by means of a gouge, great care being taken not to let the instrument sUp and penetrate too deeply. The cartilage is then seized with lion forceps and raised, the tissues beneatli it being peeled off, so as to avoid wounding the internal mammary artery or the pleura. The Triangularis sterni is now scratched through, wth a director or the nail of the index finger, close to the sternum, and the pericardium felt for and opened, the finger guarding the pleura and left internal mammary artery. The Heart The Heart (cor) is a lioUow muscular organ of a somewhat conical form ; it lies between the lungs in the middle mediastinum and is enclosed in the pericardium. Fig. 561.—Showing relations of opened heart to front of chest. Ao. Aorta. AI'. Anterior papillary muscle. In. Innominate artery. Inl. Infundibular segment of tricuspid valve. LCC. Left common carotid artery. LS. Left subclavian artery. LV. Lett ventricle. I'A. TuUnonary artery. RA. lUght auricle. HV. Ilight ventricle. VS. Ventricular septum. Position (fig. 561).—It is placed obliquely in tlie chest behind the gladiolus and adjoining parts of the rib cartilages, and projects farther into the left than into the right half of the thoracic cavity, so that about one- * Therapiv der (regcntvart, 1905.