669 AXILLARY ARTERY reduce old dislocations of the shoulder-joint. This lesion is moat likely to occur during the prehminary breaking do\^ n of adhesions, in cases where the artery has become fixed to the capsule of the joint. Aneurysm of the axillary artery sometimes occurs : a large number of the cases are traumatic in their origin, due to the injuries to which the artery is exposed in the varied, extensive, and often violent movements of the limb. The application of a ligature to the axillari/ arterij may be required in cases of aneurysm of theujiper part of the brachial, or as a distal operation for aneurysm of the subclavian ; and there are only two situations in which it can be secured, viz. in the first and in the third parts of its course ; for the axillary artery at its central part is so deeply seated, and, at the same time, so closel3' surrounded with large nervous trunks, that the application of a hgature to it there would be almost impracticable. In the third part of its course the operation is most simple, and may be performed in the following manner. The patient being placed on a bed, and the arm separated from the side, with the hand supinated, an incision about two inches in length is made through the integument forming the floor of the axilla, a little nearer to the anterior than to the posterior fold of the axilla. After carefully dissecting through the areolar tissue and fascia, the median nerve and axillary vein are exposed ; the former is displaced to the outer, and the latter to the inner side of the arm, the elbow being at the same time bent so as to relax the structures and facilitate their separation; the ligature may be passed round the artery from the ulnar to the radial side. This portion of the artery is occasionally crossed by a muscular sUp, the axillary arch (page 490), derived from the Latissimus dorsi. Tlie Jirst portion of the axillary artery may be tied in cases of aneurysm encroaching so far upwards that a ligature cannot be applied in the lower part of its course. Not- withstanding that this operation has been performed in some few patients with success, its perfoimance is attended with much difficulty and danger. The student ■will remark that, in this situation, it would be necessary to divide a thick muscle, and, after incising the costo-coracoid membrane, the artery would be exposed at the bottom of a more or less deep space, with the cephalic and axillary veins in such relation with it as must render the application of a hgature to it particularly hazardous. Under such circumstances, it is an easier and, at the same time, more advisable operation, to tie the third part of the subclavian artery. The first part of the axillary can be best secured by a curved incision with the convexity downwards from a point half an inch external to the sterno-clavicular joint to a point half an inch internal to the coracoid process. The hmb is to be well abducted and the head inclined to the opposite side, and the incision carried through the superficial structures, care being taken of the cephalic vein at the outer angle of the incision. The clavicidar origin of the Pectorahs major is then divided in the whole extent of the ^A'ound. The arm is now brought to the side, and the upper edge of the Pectorahs minor defined and dra-nTi do\vnwards. The costo-coracoid membrane is carefully divided on a director, close to the coracoid process, and the axillary sheath exposed ; this is to be opened with especial care on account of the vein overlapping the artery. Tlie needle should be passed from below, so as to avoid wounding the vein. Collateral circtdation after ligature of the axillary artery.—If the artery be tied above the origin of the acromio-thoracic, the collateral circulation will be carried on by the same branches as after the hgature of the subclavian ; if at a lower point, between the acromio-thoracic and subscapular arteries, the latter vessel, by its free anastomoses with the other scapular arteries, branches of the subclavian, will become the chief agent in carrying on the ckculation; the long thoracic, if it be below the hgature, will materially contribute by its anastomoses with the intercostal and internal mammary arteries. If the pomt included in the hgature is below the origui of the subscapular artery, it will most probably also be below the origins of the two circumflex arteries. The chief agents in restoring the circulation will then be the subscapular and the two circumflex arteries anastomosing with the superior profunda from the brachial. The cases in which the operation has been perfoi-med are few in number, and no pubhshed accoimt of dissections of the collateral circulation appears to exist. The branches of the axillary artery are : 1. The superior thoracic (a. thoracalis suprenia) is a small artery, which may arise by a common trunk with the acromio-thoracic. Running forwards and inwards along the upper border of the Pectoralis niinor, it passes between it and the Pectoralis major to the side of the chest. It supplies these muscles, and Acromio-thoracic. From first part, Superior thoracic. From second I Subscapular. From third part I Posterior circumflex. ' Anterior circumflex.