OS CALCIS 353 articularis anterior) is placed on the anterior part of the body, and articulates with the anterior calcanean facet on the astragalus. The upper surface, anterior and external to the facets, is rough for tlie attacliment of ligaments and for tlie origin of the Extensor brevis digitorum. The inferior surface is uneven, wider behind than in front, and convex from side to side ; it is bounded posteriorly by two tubercles, separated by a depression ; the external (processus lateralis tuberis calcanei), small, promi- nent, and rounded, gives origin to part of the Abductor minimi digiti; the internal (processus medial is tuberis calcanei), broader and larger, gives attach- ment, by its prominent mner margin, to the Abductor hallucis, and in front to the Flexor brevis digitorum and the plantar fascia ; the depression between the tubercles gives origin to the Abductor minimi digiti. The rough surface in front of the tubercles gives attachment to the long plantar ligament, and to the outer head of the Flexor accessorius ; while to a prominent tubercle nearer the anterior part of this surface, as well as to a transverse groove in front of the tubercle, is attached the short plantar ligament. The external surface is broad behind, and narrow m front, flat and almost subcutaneous; near its centre is a tubercle, for the attachment of the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. At its upper and anterior part, this surface gives attachment to the external calcaneo-astragaloid ligament; and in front of the tubercle it presents a narrow surface marked by two oblique grooves. The grooves are separated by an elevated ridge, or tubercle, which varies much in size in different bones ; it is named the peroneal tubercle (processus trochlearis), and gives attachment to a fibrous process from the external annular ligament. The superior groove transmits the tendon of the Peroneus brevis ; the inferior, that of the Peroneus longus. The internal surface is deeply concave ; it is directed obliquely do^vnwards and forwards, and serves for the transmission of the plantar vessels and nerves mto the sole of the foot; it affords origm to part of the Flexor accessorius. At its upper and fore part is an emmence, the lesser process or sustentaculum tall, which projects horizontally inwards, and gives attachment to a slip of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. This process is concave above, and supports the middle articular surface of the astragalus ; below, it is grooved for the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis; its anterior margin gives attach- ment to the mferior calcaneo-navicular ligament, and its mner, to a part of the mternal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The anterior surface ffacies articularis cuboidea), of a somewliat triangular form, articulates with' the cuboid. It is concave from above, downwards and outwards, and convex in a du-ection at riglit angles to this. Its mner border gives attachment to the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament. posterior surface is promment, convex, wider below than above, and divisible into three areas. The lowest of these is rough, and covered by the fatty and fibrous tissue of the heel; the middle, also rough, gives insertion to tne tendo Achillis and Plantaris ; whfle the highest is smooth, and is covered by a bursa which mtervenes between it and the tendo Achillis. cuboicf"^^^*^°°^"~''^^^ ^^^^"^^ articulates mth two bones : the astragalus and The Astragalus (fig. 405) The Astragalus (talus) is the second largest of the tarsal bones. It occupies the middle and upper part of the tarsus, supporting the tibia above, art culatmg with the malleoli on either side, resting below upon the os calcis and Thead ^^'^^ navicular. It consists of a body, a neck «^*penor surf ace oi the body (corpus tali) presents, behmd, a smooth trochlear surface (trochlea tali) for articulation with the tibia. The trochlea IS Droader in front than behmd, convex from before backwards, slightly concave from side to side: m front it is confluent with the upper surface or tne neck of the bone. The inferior surface presents two articular areas, tne posterior and middle calcanean facets, separated from one another by a aeep groove, the sulcus tali. The groove runs obliquely forwards and outwards, becoming gradually broader and deeper in front : it corresponds ^Mtn a similar groove upon the upper surface of the os calcis, and forms.