TARSO-METATARSAL ARTICULATIONS 449 Applied Analomi/.—In spite of tlie great strength of the ligaments which connect the tarsal bones together, dislocation at some of the tarsal joints does occasionally occur ; tiiough, on account of the spongy character of the bones, they are more frequently broken as the' result of violence, than dislocated. When dislocation takes place, it is most commonly in connection v\'ith the astragalus ; for not only may this bono be dislocated from the tibia and fibula at the ankle-joint, but the other bones may be dislocated from it, the trochlear surface of the bone remaining in situ in the tibio-fibular mortise. This constitutes what is known as the sub-aslragaloid dislocation. Or, again, the astragalus may be dislocated fi-om all its connectioas—from the tibia and fibula above, the os calcis below, and the navicular in front—and may even undergo a rotation, on either a vertical or a horizontal axis. In the former case the long axis of the bone becoming du-ected across the joint, so that the head faces the articular surface on one or other malleolus ; or, in the latter, the lateral surfaces becoming directed upwards and doi«Tiwards, so that the trochlear surface faces to one or the other side. Reduction in these cases is often very difficult or impossible, and the displaced astragalus may then requu-e removal by open operation. Dislocation may also occur at the medio-tarsal joint, the anterior tarsal bones being luxated from the astragalus and calcaneum. The other tarsal bones are also, occasionally, though rarely, dislocated from their connections. VI. TARSO-METATARS\L ARTICULATIONS (ARTICULATIONES TARSOMETATARSE^) These are arthrodial joints. The bones entering into their formation are four tarsal bones, viz. the internal, middle and external cuneiform, and tlie cuboid, wliich articulate with the bases of the metatarsal bones of the five toes. The metatarsal bone of the great toe articulates with the internal cuneiform ; that of the second is deeply wedged in between the internal and external cuneiforms resting against the middle cuneiform, and is the most .strongly articulated of all the metatarsal bones ; the third metatarsal articulates w ith the external cuneiform ; the fourth, vnth. the cuboid and external cunei- form ; and the fifth, with the cuboid. The bones are connected by the following ligaments : Dorsal. Plantar. Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments consist of strong, flat bands, Avliich connect the tarsal with the metatarsal bones. Tiie first metatarsal is connected to the internal cuneiform by a single broad, thin band ; the second has three dorsal ligaments, one from each cuneiform bone.; the thkd has one from the external cuneiform ; the fourth has two, one from the external cuneiform and one from the cuboid ; and the fifth, one from the cuboid. The Plantar Ligaments consist of longitudinal and oblique bands connecting tlie tarsal and metatarsal bones, but disposed with less regularity than the dorsal ligaments. Those for the first and second metatarsals are the most strongly marked ; the second and tliird metatarsals receive strong bands, which pass obliquely across from the internal cuneiform ; the jjlantar ligaments of the fourth and fifth metatarsals consist of a few fibres derived from the cuboid. The Interosseous Ligaments are three in number : internal, middle, and external. The mterrial is, the strongest of the three, and passes from the outer surface of the internal cuneiform to the adjacent angle of the second metatarsal. The middle, less strong than the preceding, connects the external cuneiform with the adjacent angle of the second metatarsal. The external connects the outer angle of tlie external cuneiform with the adjacent side of the tliird metatarsal. The Synovial Membrane between the internal cuneiform bone and the fu-st metatarsal is a distinct sac. The synovial membrane between the middle and external cuneiforms beliind, and the second and tliird metatarsal bones in front, is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. Two prolonga- tions a,re sent forwards from it, one between the adjacent sides of the second and third and another between those of the tliird and fourth metatarsal bones. The synovial membrane between the cuboid and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones is a distinct sac. From it a prolongation is sent forwards between the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. Movements.—The movements permitted between the tarsal and metatarsal bones are hniited to shght gliding movements of the bones upon each other. G G