73 SEROUS MEMBRANES homogeneous basement membrane lined on its mner surface by a single layer of nofv-onal or pavement endothelial cells, supported on a matrix of fibrous connective tissue, mth networks of fine elastic fibres, in which are contained numerous capil- laries and lymphatics. On the surface of the endothehum between the ceUs numerous apertures or interruptions are to be seen Some of these^^-e the structures formerly described as stomata, each of which is composed of cubical endothehum (see fig. 90); others {fseudoslomata) are mere mterruptions m the endothelial layer, and are occupied by processes of the branched connect ve tissue corpuscles of the subjacent tissue or by accumulations of the interceUular cement substance. , , . . , , The amount of fluid contained in these closed sacs is, in most cases, only sufficient to moisten the surface; when a small quantity can be coUected, it is found to resemble lymph, and Uke that fluid coagulates spontaneously ; but when secreted in large quantities, as in dropsy, it is a more watery fluid, yet stiU contains a considerable amount of protein which is coagulated on boihng. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES Fig. 91.—^Villus of synovial mem- brane. (After Hammar.) Synovial membranes, like serous membranes, are connective tissue membranes. In some cases they form closed sacs (synovial sheaths and bui'sse) directly inter- posed between two movable tissues so as to diminish friction; thus they may be placed between a tendon and a bone where the former glides over the latter, or between the skin and various subcutaneous bony pro- minences. In other cases they form incom- plete finings for the capsules of movable joints ; in such cases a diminution of fi'iction between the joint-surfaces is effected by the secretion poured out from the synovial cells. The synovial membranes are composed essentially of the typical connective tissue, cells and fibres, containing numerous vessels and nerves. It was formerly supposed that these membranes were- analogous in structure to the serous membranes, and consisted of a layer of flattened cells on a basement mem- brane. No such continuous layer, however, exists, although here and there are patches of epithelioid cells, surrounded and held together by an albuminous ground substance. Long viUus-hke processes (fig. 91) are often found projecting from the surfaces of synovial membranes; they are covered by small rounded cells, and are supposed to extend the surface for the secretion of the fluid {synovia) which moistens the membranes. It is a rich lymph, plus a mucin-like substance, and to the latter constituent it owes its viscidity. A further description of the synovial membranes will be given with the anatomy of the joints. MUCOUS MEMBRANES Mucous membranes line all the passages of the internal organs, and are continuous with the skin at the various orifices by which these passages open on the surface of the body. They are soft and very vascular, and the surface is coated over by their secretion, mucus, which is of a tenacious consistence and serves to protect them from the foreign substances with which they are brought in contact.