221 FRONTAL BONE some extent on the size of the frontal can- sinuses,* but it must be noted that prominent ridges are occasionally associated with small air sinuses and vice versa. Beneath each superciliaiy ridge is a curved and prominent margin, the supra-orbital margin (margo supraorbitalis), which forms the upper boundary of the base of the orbit, and separates the frontal from tlie orbital portion of the bone. The outer part of this margin is sharp and prominent, affording to the eye, in that situation, considerable protection from injury ; the inner part is rounded. At the junction of its inner and middle thirds is a notch, sometimes converted into a foramen, the supra-orbital notch or foramen (incisura sive foramen supraorbitahs), which transmits the supra-orbital vessels and nerve. A small aperture in the upper part of the notch transmits a vein from the diploe to join the supra-orbital vein. The supra-orbital rnargin terminates externally in the external angular process, and internally in the internal angular process. The external angular process (processus zygomaticus) is strong, prominent, and articulates with the malar bone. Running upwards and back\vards from this process is a well-marked ridge, the temporal ridge (linea temporfilis); this ridge divides into the upper and lower temporal lines, which are continuous, in the articulated skull, witli the corresponding lines on the parietal bone. The area below and beliind the temporal ridge forms the anterior part of the temporal fossa, and gives origin to the Temporal muscle. The internal angular processes descend to a lower level than tlie external, and articulate with the lachrymal bones ; between them is a rough, uneven interval, the nasal notch, which articulates on either side of the middle hne with the nasal bone, and laterally with the frontal process of tlie maxilla. The term nasion is applied to the middle of the fronto-nasal suture. From the centre of the notch a process, the nasal process, projects downwards and forwards beneath the nasal bones and frontal processes of the maxillae, and supports the bridge of the nose. The nasal process terminates below in a sharp spine, the nasal spine, and on either side of this is a small grooved surface which enters into the formation of the roof of the nasal fossa. The nasal spine forms part of the septum of the nose, articulating in front vnth. the crest of the nasal bones and beliind with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid. The internal surface (fig. 291) of the frontal portion is concave and presents in the upper part of the middle line a vertical groove, the sulcus sagiltalis, the edges of which unite below to form a ridge, the frontal crest (crista frontalis); the sulcus lodges the superior longitudinal sinus, while its margins and the crest afford attachment to the falx cerebri. The crest ends below in a small notch wliich is converted into a foramen, the foramen caecum, by articulation with the ethmoid. This foramen varies in size in different subjects, and is frequently impervious ; when open, it transmits a vein from the nose to the superior longitudinal sinus. On either side of the middle line the bone presents depressions for the convolutions of the brain, and numerous small furroMs for the anterior branches of the middle meningeal arteries. Several small, irregular fossae may also be seen on either side of the sulcus sagittalis, for the reception of the Pacchionian bodies. Orbital or horizontal portion (pars orbitalis).—This portion consists of two thin triangular plates, the orbital plates, ^\■hicll form the vaults of the orbits, and are separated from one another by a median gap, the ethmoidal notch. The inferior surface (lig. 291) of each orbital plate is smooth and concave, and presents, under cover of the external angular process, a shallow depression, the lachrijmal fossa (fossa glandulse lacrimalis), for the lachrymal gland; near the internal angular process is a depression, the fovea trochlearis, for the attachment of the cartilaginous pulley of the Superior oblique muscle of the eyeball. The superior surface is convex, and marked by depressions for the convolutions of the frontal lobes of the brain, and faint grooves for the meningeal branches of tlie ethmoidal arteries. * Some confusion i.s occa.sioncd to students commencing tlie study of anatomy by the name 'sinus'having been given to two different kinds of space connected witli the skulL It may be as well, therefore, to state here that the 'sinuses' in the interior of the cranium wliich produce the grooves on the inner surfaces of the bones are venous channels which convey the blood from the brain, while the ' sinuses ' external to the cranial cavity (the frontal, sphenoidal, ethmoidal, and maxillary) are hollow spaces in the bones themselves which communicate with the nasal cavities, and contain air.