251 PALATE BONES Maxillary surface Superior mealus_ Spheno-palaline foramen of the opposite bone, the posterior fourth of the hard palate. At its posterior part may be seen a transverse ridge, more or less marked, for the attachment of part of the aponeurosis of the Tensor palati. Tlie anterior border is seiTated, and articu- lates with the palatal Fig. 322.—Left palate bone. Internal view. (Enlarged.) process of the maxilla. The posterior border is concave, free, and serves for the attacliment of the soft palate. Its inner extremity is sharp and pointed, and, when united with the opposite bone, forms a projecting pro- cess, the posterior nasal spine (spina nasalis pos- terior) for the attach- ment of the Azygos uvulae. The external border is united with the lower part of the per- pendicular plate, and is grooved by the lower end of the posterior palatine canal. The internal border, the thickest, is serrated for articulation with its fellow of the opposite side ; its superior edge is raised into a ridge, which, united Avith the ridge of the opposite bone, forms a crest for articulation Avith the posterior part of the lower edge of the vomer. The vertical plate (pars perpendicularis) (figs. 322 and 323) is thin, of an oblong form, and presents two surfaces and four borders. The internal surface (facies nasalis) exhibits at its lower part a broad, shallow depression, which forms part of the inferior meatus of the nose. Imme- diately above this is a weU-marked Maxillary jirocess HOmZOKTAL PLATE Fig. 323. -Left palate bone. (Enlarged.) Posterior view. ySpheno-iyalatine foramen Spheiioiilnl procesx A rticular portion yon-articular portion horizontal ridge, the inferior tur- binated crest (crista conchalis), for articulation with the inferior tur- binated bone'; still higher is a second broad, shallow depression, which forms part of the middle meatus, and is limited above by a horizontal ridge less prominent than the inferior, the superior turbinated crest (crista ethmoidalis), for articu- lation with the middle turbinated process. Above the superior tur- binated crest is a naiTOw, horizontal groove, which forms part of the superior meatus. The external surface (facies maxiUaris) is rough and irregular throughout the greater j)art of its extent, for articulation with the inner surface of the maxiUa; its upper and back part is smooth where it enters into the formation of the spheno-maxiUary fossa ; it is also smooth in front, where it covers tlie posterior part of the orifice of the antrum. Towards the posterior part of tlus surface is a deep vertical groove, converted into the posterior palatine canal, by articulation with the maxilla; this canal transmits the posterior or descending palatine vessels, and the large palatine nerve. INTERNAL SUBFACE Posterior nasal s^nne