THE MOUTH 1089 mitritive principles of the food are separated and absorbed ; finally the small rntestine t^erminates in the large intestine^ which is ^th' rectum, and anal canal, the last terminatmg on the surface of the body at the The accessory organs are the teeth, for purposes of mas ication ; the Uiree pairs of salivary glands-the parotid, submaxillary, and subbngual-the secret&n fi-om which mixes with the food in the mouth and converts it into a bolus aJd acts chemically on one of its constituents .the Z^t;er and pancreas two larrre glands in the abdomen, the secretions of which, m addition to that of numerous minute glands in the waUs of the ahmentary canal, assist in the process of digestion. Alimentary Canal Mouth. Pharynx. (Esophagus. Stomach. Teeth. Salivary glands Small intestine Large intestine Accessory Organs Parotid. Submaxillary. Sublingual. Duodenum. Jejunum. Ileum; Csecum. Colon. Rectum. Anal canal. Liver. Pancreas. The Mouth The mouth (cavum oris) is placed at the commencement of the alimentary canal (fig. 899) ; it is a nearly oval-shaped cavity, in which the mastication of the food takes place. It consists of two parts : an outer, smaller portion, the vestibule (vestibulum oris), and an iimer, larger part, the cavity proper of the mouth (cavum oris proprium). , , . ^ ^ ■, , ^ ,i i, The vestibulum oris is a slit-like space, bounded in front and laterally by the lips and cheeks ; behind and internally by the gums and teeth. It com- municates with the surface of the body by the aperture of the mouth. Above and below, it is hmited by the reflection of the mucous membrane from the lips and cheeks to the gum covermg the upper and lower alveolar arch respec- tively. It receives the secretion from the parotid glands, and communicates, when the jaws are closed, with the cavum oris by an aperture on either side behind the wisdom teeth, and by narrow clefts between opposing teeth. The cavum oris proprium is bounded laterally and in front by the alveolar arches with their contained teeth ; behind, it communicates with the pharynx by a constricted aperture termed the isthmus faucitm. It is roofed in by the hard and soft palates, \\hile the greater part of the floor is formed by the tongue, the remainder being completed by the reflection of the mucous membrane from the sides and under surface of the tongue to the gum lining the inner aspect of the mandible. It receives the secretion from the submaxillary and sublingual glands. The muccms membrane lining the mouth is continuous with the integument at the free margin of the lips, and with the mucous hning of the pharynx behind ; it is of a rose-pink tinge during life, and very thick where it overUes the hard parts bounding the cavity. It is covered by stratified epithelium. ' The lips (labia oris) are two fleshy folds which surround the orifice of the mouth (rima oris), formed externally of integument and internally of mucous membrane, between which are found the Orbicularis oris muscle, the coronary vessels, some nerves, areolar tissue, and fat, and numerous small labial glands. The inner surface of each lip is connected in the middle line to the gum of the corresponding jaw by a fold of mucous membrane, the frenulum—the upper being the larger of the two. The labial glands are situated between the mucous membrane and the Orbicularis oris, round the orifice of the mouth. They are circular in form, and about the size of small peas; their ducts opening by minute orifices upon the mucous membrane. In structure they resemble the salivary glands. 4 A