SYNDESMOLOGY 418 1. Articulations op the First or Proximal Row of Carpal Bones These are arfchrodial joints. The ligaments connecting the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform are : Dorsal, Palmar, and two Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments, two in number, are placed transversely behind the bones of the first row ; they connect the scaphoid and semilunar, and the semilunar and cuneiform. • The Palmar Ligaments, also two, connect the scaphoid and semilunai. and the semilunar and cuneiform ; they are less strong than the dorsal, and placed very deeply below the Flexor tendons and the anterior ligament of the wrist. The Interosseous Ligaments (fig. 456) are two narrow bundles of fibrous tissue, one connecting the semilunar with the scaphoid, the other joining it to the cuneiform. They are on a level with the superior surfaces of these bones, and their upper surfaces are smooth, and form part of the convex articular surface of the wrist-joint. The ligaments connecting the pisiform bone are— Capsular. Two Palmar. The Capsular Ligament is a thin membrane which connects the pisiform to the cuneiform. It is lined with a separate synovial membrane. The two Palmar Ligaments are strong fibrous bands; one, the piso- unciform ligament (Ug. pisohamatum), connects the pisiform to the unciform, the other, the piso-metacarpal ligament (hg. pisometacarpeum), joins the pisiform to the fifth metacarpal bone (fig. 456). These ligaments are, in reahty, prolongations of the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris. 2. Articulations of the Second or Distal Row of Carpal Bones These also are arthrodial joints. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage, and connected by the following ligaments : Dorsal, Palmar, and three Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments, tlu-ee in number, extend transversely from one bone to another on the dorsal surface, connecting the trapezium with the trapezoid, the trapezoid with the os magnum, and the os magnum with the unciform. , The Palmar Ligaments, also three, have a similar arrangement on the palmar surface. , , . , ^, r xi c ^ The three Interosseous Ligaments, much thicker than those of the hrst row are placed one between the os magnum and the unciform, a second between the os magnum and the trapezoid, and a third bet^^•een the trapezium and trapezoid. The first of these is much the strongest, and the third is some- times wanting. 3. Articulations of the Two Rows of Carpal Bones with each other The joint between the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform on the one hand, and the second row of carpal bones on the other, is named the mrd-c<irpal joint, and is made up of three distmct portions : in the centre the head of (he OS magnum and tlie superior surface of the unciform articulate wit li the deep cut)-shaped cavity formed by the scaphoid and semilunar, and constitute a sort of ball-and-socket joint. On the outer side the trapezium and trapezoid articulate with the scaphoid, and on the inner side tlie unciform articulates with the cuneiform, forming gliding joints. The ligaments are : Anterior or Palmar. Iiiternal Lateral Posterior or Dorsal. External Lateral. The Anterior or Palmar Ligament consists of short fibres, jl^jch pas^ for the most part, from the palmar surfaces of the bones of the first row to the front of the os magnnm.