1051 THE EAR diminishes eradually in size from the base to the summit, where it terminates in the cupula, which forms the apex of the cocldea. The commencement of this canal is about the tenth of an inch in diameter ; it diverges from the modiolus towards the tympanum and vestibule, and presents three openmgs. One the fenestra rotunda, communicates with the tympanum—m the recent state this aperture is closed by a membrane, the membrana tympani secun- daria • another, of an elliptical form, opens into the vestibule. The third is the aperture of the aqueductus cochleae, leading to a minute funnel-shaped canal, which opens on the basilar surface of the petrous bone and transmits a small vem, and also forms a communication between the subarachnoid space of the skull and the seala tympani. The lamina spiralis ossea is a bony shelf or ledge which projects outwards from the modiolus into the interior of the spiral canal, and, like the canal, takes two and tliree-quarter turns round the modiolus. It reaches about half- way towards the outer wall of the spiral tube, and partially divides its cavity into two passages or scalee, of which the upper is named the scala vestibuli, while the lower is termed the scala tympani. Near the summit of the cochlea the lamina terminates in a hook-shaped process, the hamulus lamina} spiralis, which assists in forming the boundary of a small openuig, the helicotrema, by which the two scal« communicate with eacli other. From the canalis spiralis modioli numerous canals pass outwards through the osseous spiral lamina as far as its free edge. In the lower part of the first turn a second bony lamina, the lamina spiralis secundaria, projects inwards from the outer wall of the bony tube ; it does not, however, reach the primary osseous spiral lamina, so that if viewed fi-om the vestibule a narrow fissure, the fissura vestibuli, is seen between them. The Membranous Labyrinth (figs. 867, 868, 869) The membranous labyrinth (labyrinthus membranaceus) is lodged within the bony cavities just described, and has the same general form as the cavities in which it is contained ; it is, ho\vever, considerably smaller, and is separated from the bony Avails by a quantity of fluid, the perilymph. It does not float loosely in this fluid, but in certain places is fixed to the walls of the caAdty. The membranous labyrinth contains fluid, the endohjmph, and on its walls the ramifications of the auditory nerve are distributed. Fig. 867.—The membranous labyrinth. (Enlarged.) END0LYMPHATICU3 Within the osseous vestibule the membranous labyrinth does not quite preserve the form of the bony cavity, but presents two membranous sacs, the utricle and the saccide. The utricle (utriculus), the larger of the two, is of an oblong form, com- pressed laterally, and occupies the upper and back part of the vestibule, lying in contact with the recessus eUipticus and the part below it. That jjortion which is lodged in the recess forms a sort of pouch or cul-de-sac, the floor