TOPOGRAPHY OF CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS 887 eminence. The ascending limb of the fissure of Sylvius may be marked out by drawing a line upwards, at right angles to the Sylvian line, for nearly an inch (two centimetres) ; and the horizontal limb by a line of the same length, drawn horizontally forwards from the same point. The fismireof Rolando.—Thane defines this fissure by taldng the centre of a line between the nasion and the inion and fixes the superior Rolandic ■point at half an inch behind this. The inferior Rolandic point is defined by drawing a line at right angles to the base-line of Reid, from the pre-auricular point to the Sylvian line; this it meets about an inch from the Sylvian point. By joLoing these two points, the Rolandic line, which overUes the fissure of Rolando, is mapped out. It forms an angle opening forwards, of about seventy degrees with the median line. Reid has devised another plan for mapping out this fissure. He draws two perpendicular hues from the base-line to the top of the head ; one from the pre-auricular point, and the other from the posterior border of the mastoid process at its root. A line drawn from the upper extremity of the posterior Fig. 753.—^Relations of the brain and middle meningeal artery to the surface of the skull. A 1, Nasion; 2, Imoa ; 3, Lambda ; 4, Fissure of Sylvius ; S, Fissare of Eolando. AA, Eeid's base line : B, Point for trepmnmg the antenor branch of the middle meningeal artery; C, Suprameatal triangle; D, Sigmoid bend 01 me lateral sinus ; E, Pomt for trephining over the straight portion of tbe lateral sinus, exposmg dura mater 01 Doth cerebrum and cerebeUum. OutUne of cerebral hemisphere indicated in blue ; course of middle meningeal artery m red. fine to the point where the Sylvian line crosses the anterior one would indicate the position of the fissure of Rolando. The external parieto-occipital fissure runs outwards at right angles to the great longi- tudinal fissure for about an inch, from a point one-fifth of an inch in front of the lambda (posterior fontanelle). Reid states that if the posterior Umb of the fissure of Sylvius be continued backwards to the sagittal suture, the last inch of this Une will indicate the position of the sulcus. The precentral and postcentral sulci are situated three-fifths of an inch in front of and behmd the Rolandic fissure respectively ; they are nearly parallel mth this fissure, and extend as low as the Sylvian line. The superior frontal fissure may be mapped out by drawing a line from the junction of the upper and middle third of the precentral sulcus, in a direction parallel with the longitudinal fissure, to a point midway between the middle line of the forehead and the temporal ridge, an inch and a half above the supra-orbital notch. The inferior frontal fissure follows the course of the superior temporal ridge, commencing at the junction of the middle and lower thkds of the precentral sulcus.