THE UTERUS 1225 The cavity of the body is a mere slit, flattened antero-posteriorly. It is triangular in shape, the base being formed by the internal surface of the fundus between the uterine orifices of the Fallopian tubes, the apex by the internal os through wMch the cavity of the body communicates with the cavity of the cervix. The cavity of the cervix (canalis cervicis uteri) is somewhat fusiform, flattened from before backwards, and broader at the middle than at either extremity. It communicates above through the internal os with the cavity of the body, and below through the external os witJa the vaginal cavity. The wall of the canal presents an anterior and a posterior longitudinal ridge, from each of which proceed a number of small oblique columns, giving the appearance of branches from the stem of a tree ; to this arrangement the name arbor viice uierina is applied. The longitudinal ridges are not exactly opposed, but fit against one another so as to close the cervical canal. The total length of the uterine cavity from the external os to the fundus is about two and a half inches. Ligaments.—The ligaments of the uterus are eight in number : one anterior ; one posterior ; two lateral or broad ; two utero-sacral ; and, lastly, two round ligaments. The anterior ligament consists of the utero-vesical fold of peritoneum, which is reflected on to the bladder from the front of the uterus, at the junction of the cervix and body. The posterior ligament consists of the recto-vaginal fold of peritoneum, which is reflected from the back of the upper fourth of the vagina on to the front of the rectum. It forms the bottom of a deep pouch called Douglas's pouch, wliich is bounded in front by the posterior M-all of the uterus, the supravaginal cervix, and the upper fourth of the vagina ; behind, by the rectum ; and laterally by two crescentic folds of ijcritoneum which j)ass back- wards from the cervix uteri on either side of the rectum to the posterior wall of the pelvis. These folds are named the sacro-genital, or recto-uterine folds. They contain a considerable amount of fibrous tissue and non-striped muscular fibres which are attached to the front of the sacrum and constitute the utero- sacral ligaments. The tioo lateral or broad ligaments pass from the sides of the uterus to the lateral walls of the pelvis. Together with the uterus they form a septum across the female pelvis, which divides that cavity into two portions. In the anterior part is contained the bladder ; in the posterior part, the rectum, and in certain conditions some coils of the small intestine and a part of the pelvic colon. Between the two layers of each broad ligament are contained : (1) the Fallopian tube superiorly ; (2) the round ligament ; (3) the ovary and its ligament ; (4) the parovarium, or organ of Rosenmiiller ; (5) connective tissue ; (6) unstriped muscular fibre ; and (7) blood-vessels and nerves. The portion of the broad Hgament which stretches from the Fallopian tube to the level of the ovary is known by the name of the mesosalpinx. Between the fimbriated extremity of the tube and the lower attachment of the broad ligament is a concave rounded margin, called the infundibulo-pelvic ligament. The round ligc ments are two flattened bands between four and five inches in length, situated between the layers of the broad ligament in front of and below the Fallopian tubes. Commencing on either side at the superior angle of the uterus, this ligament is directed forwards, upwards, and outwards over the pelvic brim. It then passes through the internal abdominal ring and along the inguinal canal to the labium majus, in which it becomes lost. The round Ugament consists principally of muscular tissue, prolonged from the uterus ; also of some fibrous and areolar tissue, besides blood-vessels and nerves, enclosed in a duplicature of peritoneum, which, in the foetus, is prolonged in the form of a tubular process for a short distance into the inguinal canal. This process is called the canal of Nuck. It is generally obliterated in the adult, but sometimes remains pervious even in advanced life. It is analogous to the processus vaginalis wMch precedes the descent of the testis. In addition to the ligaments just described, there is a band named the Ugamentum transversalis colli (Mackenrodt) on either side of the cervix uteri. It is attached to the lateral aspect of the cervix uteri and to the vault and lateral fornix of the vagina, and is