OSTEOLOGY 200 is cagaiji a gradual and progressive increase in width as Io^^• as the sacro- vertebral angle. From this point there is a rapid diminution, to the apex of the coccyx. »ij^a The posterior surface oi the vertebral column presents in the median lin- <^'if,sP^inous processes. In the cervical region these are short and horizontal with bifid extremities. In the upper part of the thoracic region thev aiv directed obliquely ; in the middle they are almost vertical, and in the lower part they are horizontal, with a slight inchnation dowiiwards The spinous processes of the lumbar vertebras are nearly horizontal. They are separated by considerable intervals in the loins, by narrower intervals in the neck and are closely approximated in the middle of the thoracic region' Occasionally one of these processes deviates a httle from tlie median line— a tact to be remembered in practice, as irregularities of this sort are attendant also on fractures or disialacements of the vertebral column. On either side of the spinous processes is the vertebral groove formed by the laminse in the cervical and lumbar regions, \vhere it is shaUow, and by the laminje and transverse processes in the thoracic region, where it is deep and broad; these grooves lodge the deep muscles of the back. External to the vertebral grooves are the articular processes, and still more externally the transverse processes. In the thoracic region, the latter processes stand backwards, on a plane, considerably posterior to the same processes in the cervical and lumbar regions! In the cervical region, the transverse processes are placed in front of the articular processes, on the outer sides of the pedicles and between the inter- vertebral foramina. In the thoracic region they are posterior to the pedicles, intervertebral foramina, and articular processes. In the lumbar region they are placed in front of the articular processes, but behind the intervertebral foramina. The lateral surfaces are separated from the posterior by the articular processes in the cervical and lumbar regions, and by the transverse processes in the thoracic region. These surfaces present, in front, the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, marked in the thoracic region by the facets for articulation with the heads of the ribs. More posteriorly are the intervertebral foramina, formed by the juxtaposition of the intervertebral notches, oval in shape, smallest in the cervical and upper part of the thoracic regions, and gradually increasing in size to the last lumbar. They transmit the spinal nerves and are situated between the transverse processes in the cervical region, and in front of them in the thoracic and lumbar regions. Tlie base of that portion of the vertebral column which is made up of the twenty-four movable vertebrae is formed by the under surface of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebrae ; and the siimmit, by the upper surface of the atlas. The vertebral or spinal canal follows the different curves of the column ; it is large and triangular in those regions of the column which enjoy the greatest freedom of movement, viz. the neck and loins ; and is small and rounded in the thoracic region, where motion is more limited. Surface Form.—The only parts of the vertebral column which are subcutaneous, and so dhectly mfluence the surface form, are the apices of the spinous processes. These are distinguishable at the bottom of a furrow, which, more or less evident, runs down the mesial line of tlie back from the external occipital protuberance to the middle of the sacrum. In the neck the furrow is broad, and ends below in a conspicuous projection caused by the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and first tlioracic vertebrae. Above this the spinous process of the sixth cervical vertebra sometimes forms a projection : the other cervical spinous processes are sunken, but that of the axis can be felt. In the thoracic region the fuiTOw is shallow, and during stooping disajipears, and then the spinous processes become more or less visible ; the markings produced by them arc small and clo^e together. In the lumbar region the fiu-row is deep, and the situation of the spinous processes is frequently indicated by little pits or depressions, especinll}' when the muscles in the loins are well developed. They are much larger and farther apart than in the thoracic region. In the sacral region the furrow is shallower, jiresenting a flattened area which ends below at the most prominent part of the posterior surface of the sacrum, formed by the spinous process of the third sacral vertebra. At (he bottom of the furrow the irregular posterior surface of the bone may be felt, and below this, in the deep gi-oove leading to the anus, the coccyx. In order to identify any particular spinous jirocess, it is customarj'to count from the prominence caused by the seventh cervical and first thoracic; of these two (he spinous process of the first thoracic is the more prominent. It is useful, how-