SYNDESMOLOGY 440 tlie front from those on the back of the leg. It consists of a thin aponeurotic lamma composed of oblique fibres, which for the most part pal dTnwa^ds and outwards; some few fibres, iiowever, pass in the oppositniieclion It is broader above than below. Its upper \nargin doe.s^no quite reS til superior tibio-fibular joint but presents a free concave border^above whlh is a large oval aperture for the passage of the anterior tibial vessels to t e fron of the leg. At Its lower part is an opening for the passage of the antli^or peroneal vessels. It is continuous, below with the inflrior in?erosseous ligament, and presents numerous perforations for the passage of snmU vessels FVf.il ^^"^^ Extensoi^longus digSun ' Extensor proprius hallucis, Peroneus tertius, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve ; behmd, M-ith the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus hallucis! 3. Inferiob Tibio-fibular Abtictjlation (Syndesmosis Tibio- pibulare) nf f^l"f ^^■^^^"l^^^i^^js by the rough, convex surface of the inner side of the lower end of the fibula, and a concave rough surface on the outer side of the tibia. Below, to the extent of about a sixth of an inch, these surfaces are smooth, and covered with cartilage, which is continuous with that of the anlde-joint. The ligaments of this joint are : Anterior Inferior Tibio-fibular. Transverse Inferior Posterior Inferior Tibio-fibular. Interosseous. .^^^ Inferior Tibio-fibular Ligrament (lig. maUeoli lateralis anterius) (fig. 476) is a flat, triangular band of fibres, broader below than above, which extends obliquely downwards and outwards between the adjacent margins of the tibia and fibula, on the front aspect of the articula- tion. It IS in relation, in front, with the Peroneus tertius, the aponeurosis of the leg, and the mtegument; behind, udth the inferior interosseous ligament • and lies in contact with the cartilage covering the astragalus. The Posterior Inferior Tibio-fibular Ligament (lig. maUeoli lateralis posterius), smaller than the preceding, is disposed in a similar manner on the posterior surface of the articulation. The Transverse Inferior Ligament lies under cover of the posterior ligament, and is a strong, thick band of yellowish fibres which passes trans- versely across the back of the joint, from the external malleolus to the posterior border of the articular surface of the tibia, almost as far as its malleolar process. This ligament projects below the margin of the bones, and forms part of the articulating surface for the astragalus". The Interosseous Ligament consists of numerous short, strong, fibrous bands, which pass between the contiguous rough surfaces of the tibia and fibula, and constitute the chief bond of union between the bones. It is continuous, above, with the interosseous membrane. The Synovial Membrane wliich is associated with the small arthrodial part of this joint is continuous with that of the ankle-joint. IV. ANKLE-JOINT (AETICULATIO TALOCRURALIS) The ankle-joint is a ginglymus, or hinge-joint. The structures entering into its formation are the lower extremity of the tibia and its malleolus, tlie external malleolus of the fibula, and the transverse ligament, \A-hich together form a mortise to receive the upper convex surface of the astragalus and its two lateral facets. The surfaces are connected by a capsule, which in places forms thickened bands constituting the following ligaments : Capsular. Anterior. Internal Lateral. Posterior. External Lateral. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) is an imperfect ligamentous structure which siuTounds the joint, and is attached, above, to the borders of the articular surface of the tiljia ; and below, to the astragalus around its