1229 THE VAGINA employed in vaginal hysterectomy, except that the proceeding is commenced from above. When the first two ligatures have been tied, and the broad ligament divided, it will be found that the uterus can be raised out of the pelvis. A transverse incision is now made through the peritoneum, where it is reflected from the anterior surface of the uterus on to the back of the bladder, and the serous membrane peeled from the surface of the uterus until the vagina is reached. The anterior wall of this canal is then cut across. The uterus is now turned forwards and the peritoneum at the bottom of Douglas's pouch incised transversely, and the posterior wall of the vagina cut across, until it meets the incision on the anterior wall. The uterus is now almost free, and is held only by the lower part of the broad ligament on either side, containing the uterine artery. A third ligature is made to encircle this as close to the uterus as possible, the position of the xu'eter being always kept in mind, and, after having been tied, the structures are divided between the hgatm-e and the uterus. The organ can now be removed. The vagina is plugged with gauze, and the external wound closed in the usual way. The vagina acts as a drain, and therefore the opening into it is not sutm-ed. Inflammation of the cellular tissue surrounding the cervix occasionally takes place. Laceration of the cervix by instruments or by the foetal head frequently occurs, opening up the cellular planes and so exposing them to any infection that may be present. An inflammatory mass forms in the cellular tissue between the layers of the broad ligament or of the utero-sacral ligaments, and the condition is termed pelvic celluhtis, or para- metritis. Tliis condition is usually confined to one side of the pelvis, forming a large inflammatory mass which pushes the uterus over to the opposite side. It does not alwaj's remain locaUsed, however, but may spread widely, surrounding the rectum or the neck of the bladder, or mounting into the iliac fossa, or even to the perinephric cellular tissue. The condition may resolve or an abscess may form. In the former condition the cicatrisation of the inflammatory products often produces displacements of the uterus towards the affected side of the pelvis, or stricture of the rectum when that viscus has been surrounded by the process. "When suppuration ensues, the pus may burst into the bladder, vagina, or rectum, or it may present above Poupart's ligament, or it may movmt to the anterior abdominal wall in front of the bladder or to the posterior abdominal w^all between the iliac crest and last rib. The abscess may, moreover, make its way into the buttock by passing out of the pelvis thi-ough the great sacro-sciatic foramen, or it may pass down between the fibres of the Levator ani and appear as a secondary ischio-rectal abscess. The Vagina (fig. 1014) The vagina extends from the vestibule to the uterus, and is situated behind the bhadder and in front of the rectum ; it is directed upwards and backwards, its axis forming with that of the uterus an angle of over 90°, opening forwards. Its walls are ordinarily in contact, and the usual shape of its lower part on transverse section is that of an H, the transverse limb being sUghtly curved forwards or backwards, while the lateral hmbs are some- what convex towards the median line ; its middle part has the appearance of a transverse slit. Its length is two and a half to three inches along its anterior wall, and three and a lialf inches along its posterior wall. It is constricted at its commencement, dilated in the middle, and narrowed near its uterine extremity ; it surrounds the vaginal portion of tlie cervix uteri, a short distance from the os, its attachment extending higher up on the posterior than on the anterior wall of the uterus. To the recess behind tlie cervix the term posterior fornix is applied, while the smaller recess in front is termed anterior fornix. The anterior surface of the vagina is in relation with the base of the bladder, and with the urethra. Its posterior surface is connected for the middle two fourths of its extent to the anterior wall of the rectum, the upper fourth being separated from that tube by tlie recto-vaginal pouch of peritoneum, or pouch of Douglas. The loM-er fourth is separated from the anal canal by the perinzeum. Its sides are enclosed between the Levatores ani muscles. As the terminal portions of the ureters pass forwards and inwards to reach the base of the bladder, they run one on either side of the lateral aspect of the upper part of the vagina. structure,—The vagina consists of an internal mucous Uning, and a muscular coat, separated by a layer of erectile tissue. The mucous membrane is continuous above with that lining the uterus. Its inner surface presents two longitudinal ridges, one on its anterior and one on its posterior wall, ihese ridges are called the colmnns of the vagina, and from them numerous transverse ndges or rugas extend outwards on either side. These rugaj are divided by furrows of variable depth, giving to the mucous membrane the appearance of being studded over with corneal projections or papilte ; they are most numerous near the orifice of the vagina, especially m females before parturition. The epithelium covering the mucous membrane