MYOLOGY 522 the Levator ani and Obturator interuus into a space known as tlie ischio- rectal fossa. The deep fascia forms the lining of the ischio-rectal fossa ; it comprises the anal fascia, and the portion of obturator fascia below the origin of Levator ani. Ischio-rectal fossa.—^The fossa is somewhat prisniatic in shape, with its base directed to the surface of the perina3um, and its apex at tlie line of meeting of the obturator and anal fasciae. It is bounded internally by the External sphincter ani, and the anal fascia ; externally by the tuberosity of the ischium and the obturator fascia ; anteriorly by the fascia of CoUes covering the trans- versus perinsei, and by tlie deep layer of the triangular hgament; posteriorly by the Gluteus maximus and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Crossing the space transversely are the infeiior hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerves ; at the back part are the perineal and perforating cutaneous branches of the pudendal plexus ; wliile from the fore part the superficial permeal vessels and nerves emerge. The internal pudic vessels and nerve lie in Alcock's canal on the external wall. The fossa is filled ^^dtli fatty tissue across Ai'liich numerous fibrous bands extend from side to side. A'pplied Anatomy.—Abscess ia the ischio-rectal fossa commonly occurs ; it is most often the result of infection from the bowel, and is especially prone to occur in tuberculous subjects ; occasionally it follows perforation by a foreign body which has been swallowed, such as a fish bone. The abscess may bulge at the side of the anus, at the border of Gluteus maximus, or against the rectal wall. There is great pain on defaecation, and, on examining the bowel, fulness on the side of the abscess may be detected. If left to itself the pus will find exit tlirough the skin, or into the rectum, between the two Sphincters ; and the condition will degenerate into one of the varieties of fistula, owing to the constant pull of the Sphincter preventing closure of the walls of the cavity. These abscesses should be opened at the earliest possible moment, as they tend to track and bui-row widely into the soft fat in the fossa, and also in the subcutaneous tissues. An incision should be made tangential to the anus over the region of the ischio-rectal fossa, and should then be con- verted into a T, by making another incision outwards at right angles to it, so that the wound may be kept open and may heal up from the bottom. Frequently, however, in spite of care, a fistula ensues which requires division of the External sphincter for its cure. The Corrugator cutis ani.—Around the anus is a thin stratum of involuntary muscular fibre, which radiates from the orifice. Liternally, the fibres fade off into the submucous tissue, wliile externally tliej'- blend with the true skin. By its contraction it raises the skin into ridges around the margin of the anus. The Sphincter ani externus (fig. 514) is a thin, flat plane of muscular fibres, elliptical in shape and intimately adherent to the integument surrounding the margin of the anus. It measures about three or four inches in length, from its anterior to its posterior extremity, being about an inch in breadth, opposite the anus. It consists of two strata, superficial and deep. The superficial. constituting the main portion of the muscle, arises from a narrow tendinous band, the ano-coccygeal raphe, which stretches from the tip of the coccyx to the posterior margin of the anus; it forms two flattened planes of muscular tissue, which encircle the anus and meet in front to be inserted into the central tendinous point of the perinseum, joining with the Transversus permaei, the Levator ani, and the Accelerator urinaj. The deeper portion forms a complete sphincter to the anal canal. Its flbres surround the canal, closely applied to the Internal sphincter, and in front blend with the other muscles at tlie central point of the perinjeum. In a considerable proportion of oases the fibres decussate in front of the anus, and are continuous with the Transversus perinsei. Posteriorly, they are not attached to the coccyx, the fibres of opposite sides being continuous behind the anal canal. The upper edge of the muscle is ill-defined, since fibres are given off from it to join tlie Levator ani. . . Nerve-supply.—A branch from the fourth sacral and twigs from the mferioi hteinorrhoidal branch of the internal pudic supply the muscle. Actions.—The action of this muscle is peculiar. 1. It is, like other inuscles. always in a state of tonic contraction, and having no antagonistic muscle it keeps the anal canal and orifice closed. 2. It can be put into a condition of greater contraction under the influence of the will, so as more firmly to occlude the anal aperture in expiratory efforts, unconnected with defajcation. 3. Taking its fixed