675 RADIAL ARTERY Eadial recurrent and those behind the iuternal and external epicondyles. The branches anasto- mosing in front of the internal epicondyle are : the anterior branch of the anastomotica magna, the an- terior nlnar recurrent, and the Fig- 598.—Tlie radial and ulnar arteries, anterior branch of the inferior profunda. Those behind the in- ternal epicondyle are: the ana- stomotica magna, the posterior ulnar recurrent, and the posterior terminal branch of the inferior profunda. The branches ana- stomosing in front of the external epicondyle are : the radial re- current and the anterior terminal branch of the superior profunda. Those behind the external epi- condyle (perhaps more properly described as being situated between the external epicondyle and the olecranon) are: the anastomotica magna, the in- terosseous recurrent, and the posterior terminal branch of the superior profimda. There is also a large arch of anastomosis above the olecranon, formed by the in- terosseous recurrent joining with the anastomotica magna and pos- terior ulnar recurrent (fig. 600). From this description it will be observed that the anasto- motica magna is the vessel most engaged, the only part of the anastomosis in which it is not employed being that in front of the external epicondyle. R.-vDiAL Artery (fig. 598) The radial artery (a. radi- alis) appears, from its dii-ection, to be the continuation of the brachial, but it is smaller in calibre than the ulnar. It commences at the bifurcation of the brachial, just below the bend of the elbow, and passes along the radial side of the forearm to the wrist. It then winds backwards, round the outer side of the carpus, be- neath the Extensor tendons of the thumb to the upper end of the space between the meta- carpal bones of the thumb and index finger, and, finally, passes forwards between the two heads of the First dorsal inter- osseous muscle, into the palm of the hand, where it crosses the metacarpal bones to the ulnar border of the hand, to form the deep palmar arch. At its termination, it anastomoses with the deep branch of the ulnar artery. The relations of this X X 2 Extensor brevis poinds Superficialis voice Veep brcmcJi of ulnar