875 THE FORNIX thalamus. Anteriorly, its fibres are partly continued into the anterior pillar of the fornix ; some, however, pass over the anterior commissure to the grey matter between the caudate nucleus and septum pellucidum, while others are said to penetrate the caudate nucleus. Posteriorly, it is continued into the roof of the middle or descending horn of the lateral ventricle, at the extremity of which it enters the nudexis amygdala}. Superficial to it is a large vein, the vena corporis striati, which receives numerous tributaries from the corpus striatum and thalamus ; it runs forwards to the foramen of Monro and joins with the vein of the choroid plexus to form the corresponding ve7ia Oaleni. On the surface of the vein of the corpus striatum is a narrow band of white fibres, named the lamina cornea. The fornix (figs. 721, 744) is a longitudinal, arch-shaped lamella of white matter, situated below the corpus callosum, with which it is continuous behind, but from which it is separated in front by the septum pellucidum. It may be described as consisting of two symmetrical bands, one for either hemisphere. The two portions are not united to each other in front and behind, but their central parts are joined together in the middle line. The anterior parts are called the anterior pillars {columnce fornicis) ; the intermediate united portions constitute the body of the fornix; and the posterior parts are termed the posterior pillars {crura fornicis). The hody of the fornix is triangular, narrow in front, and broad behind. The mesial part of its upper surface is coimected to the septum pellucidum in front and to the corpus callosum behind. The lateral portion of this surface forms part of the floor of the lateral ventricle, and is covered by the ventricular epithelium. Its outer edge overlaps the choroid plexuses, and is continuous with the epithelial covering of these structures. The under surface rests upon the velum interpositum, which separates it from the epithelial roof of the third ventricle, and from the inner portions of the upper surfaces of the thalami. When viewed from below the lateral portions of the body of the fornix are seen to be joined by a thin triangular lamina, named the psalterium or lyra. This lamina contains some transverse fibres which connect the two hippocampi across the middle line and constitute the hippocampal commissure. Between the psalterium and the corpus callosum a horizontal cleft, the so-called ventricle of the fornix or ventricle of Verga, is sometimes found. The anterior pillars arch downwards m front of the foramen of Monro and beliind the anterior commissure, and each descends through the grey matter m the lateral waU of the third ventricle to the base of the bram, where it termmates in the corpus albicans. From the cells of the corpus albicans a fasciculus of fibres, termed the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr, takes origin and is prolonged into the anterior nucleus of the thalamus. The anterior pillar of the fornix and the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr together form a loop resembling the figure 8, but the continuity of the loop is broken in the corpus albicans, ihe anterior pillar of the fornix is jomed by the stria pinealis and by the : superficial fibres of the ttenia semicircularis, and is also said to receive fibres 1 from the septum pellucidum. Zuckerkandl describes an olfactory fasciculus winch becomes detached from the main portion of the anterior pillar of the I^^' passes downwards in front of the anterior commissure to the base . ot the brain, where it divides into two bundles, one joining the inner root • ot the olfactory tract; the other joms the subcallosal gyi'us, and through it 1 reaches the hippocampal convolution. . The posterior pillars are prolonged backwards from the body of the fornix. xiiey are flattened bands, and at their commencement are intimately con- 1 nected by then: upper surfaces with the under aspect of the corpus caUosum. 'iJivergmg from one another, each curves round the posterior extremity of 'tne thalamus, and passes downwards and forwards into the descending norn ot the lateral ventricle. Here it lies along the concavity of the hippo- . ^^Qipus major, on the surface of which some of its fibres are spread out to ^ 101 m the alveus, while the remainder are continued as a narrow white band, ■ ^e jimbna or tmnia hippocampi, which is prolonged into the uncus of the : S^ius hippocampi. Its inner edge overlaps the dentate convolution (page 864) ^^pch It IS separated hy the fimbrio-dentate fissure; from its outer margin, IS thin and ragged, the ventricular epithelium is reflected over the i-noroid plexus as the latter projects into the choroidal fissure.