432 SYNDESMOLOGY and a half below the level of the tuberosity. It is crossed, at its lower part, by the tendons of the Sartorius, Gracilis, and Semitendinosus muscles, a synovial bursa being interposed. Its deep surface covers the antei'ior portion of the tendon of the Semimembranosus, with which it is connected by a few fibres, and the Lnierior internal articular vessels and nerve ; it is intimately adlierent to the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. Tlie External Lateral Ligament (lig. collaterale fibulare) is a strong, rounded, fibrous cord, attached, above, to the back part of the outer tuberosity of the femur, immediately above the groove for the Popliteus muscle ; below, to tlie outer side of the head of the fibula, in front of the styloid process. Its miter surface is covered by the tendon of the Biceps, which divides at its insertion into two parts, separated by the ligament. Passing beneath the ligament are the tendon of the Popliteus muscle, and the inferior external articular vessels and nerve. It has no attachment to the external semilunar fibro-cartilage. Fig. 469.—Right knee-joint. Fig. 470.—Right knee-joint. Showing Posterior view. interior ligaments. The Short External Lateral Ligament is an inconstant bundle of fibres placed behind and parallel .vith the preceding, attached, above, to the lower and back part of he outer tuberosity of the femur ; below, to the summit of the styloid process of fihula. jliis ligament is intimately connected v^ith the capsular ligament, while passmg beneath it are The tendon of the Popliteus muscle, and the inferior external articular vessels and nerve The Crucial Ligaments (ligg. cruciata genu) are of considerab e strength, situated in the interior of the jomt nearer its Posterior t an its anterior part. They are called crucial because thoy cross each other somewliat like ihe lines of the letter X; and have received the names anlcnor and posterior, from the position of their attachments to the tibia. „„.^-iu<»^ The Anterior or External Crucial Ligament (hg. cruciatun antcT s) (figs. 470, 471) is attached to the depression m Iront of the spine of the tibia, being blended with the anterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-