27 BONE tissue the veins being enclosed and supported by osseous structure, and having cxceec in.dv thin coats When the bony structure is divided, the vessels remain l^itulous? and do not contract in the canals in wluch they arc contained. Hence he occul-rence of purulent absorption after amputation in those cases where the stump becomes inflLmed and the cancellous tissue is infiltrated and bathed by pus Lumlhatic vessels, in addition to those found in the periosteum, have been traced by Cruikshank into the substance of bone, and Klem describes them as runmng in the Haversian canals. Nerves are distributed fi'eely to the periosteum, and accompany the nutrient arteries into the interior of the bone. They are said by KolHkertobe most numerous in the articular extremities of the long bones, in the vertebrae, and in the larger fiat bones. Minute anatomy.—The intimate structure of bone, in all essential particulars identical in the compact and in the cancellous tissue, is most easily studied m a transverse section from the compact wall of one of the long bones after maceration (fig. 33). , .„ _ , , , If this be examined with a rather low power the bone will be seen to be mapped out into a number of circular districts each consisting of a central hole smi-ounded by a number of concentric rings. These districts are termed Haversian systems ; the central hole is an Haversian canal, and the rings are layers of bone-tissue arranged concentrically around the central canal, and termed lamella;. More- FiG. 34.—Transverse section of compact tissue of bone. Magnified. (Sharpey.) over, on closer examination, it will be found that between these lamellae, and therefore also arranged concentrically around the central canal, are a number of little dark spots, the lacunce, and that these lacunae are connected with each other aud with the central Haversian canal by a number of fine dark hnes, which radiate like the spokes of a wheel and are called canaliculi. All these structures— the concentric lamella3, the lacunte, and the canalicuU—may be seen in any single Haversian system forming a circular district round a central Haversian canal. Filling in the irregular intervals which are left between these circular systems are other lamellae, with their lacunae and canaliculi running in various directions, but more or less curved (fig. 34). These are termed interslilial lamellae. Again, other lamellae, for the most part found ou the surface of the bone, are arranged parallel to the circumference of the bone, constituting, as it were, a single Haversian system of the whole bone, of which the medullary cavity would repre- sent the Haversian canal. These latter lamellae are termed circumjerential or by some authoi's primary or fundamental lamellae, to distinguish them from those laid down around the axes of the Haversian canals, which are then termed secondary or sfecial lamellae. The Haversian canals, seen in a transverse section of bone as round holes at or about the centre of each Haversian system, may be demonstrated to be true canals, if a longitudinal section be made (fig. 35). It will then be seen that the