923 SEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE whicli constitute the vasodilator nerves of the submaxillary and sublingual glands, and are conveyed to these glands through the chorda tympani. The sensory part contains the fibres of taste for the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. The motor root takes origin from a nucleus which lies deeply in the reticular formation of the lower part of the jDons Varolii. This nucleus is situated above the nucleus ambiguus, behind the superior olive, and internal to the lower sensory root of the fifth nerve. From this origin the fibres pursue a curved course in the substance of the pons. They first pass backwards and inwards towards the floor of the fourth ventricle, and, reaching the posterior extremity of the nucleus of the sixth nerve, run upwards close to the middle line beneath the eminentia teres. At the anterior end of the nucleus of the sixth nerve they make a second bend, and run do^vnwards and forwards through the pons to their point of emergence between the olivary and restiform bodies. Some fibres from the nucleus of the third nerve are said to descend in the posterior longitudinal fasciculus and join the motor root of the facial nerve before it leaves the pons. These fibres are beheved to supply the Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, and anterior belly of the Occipito-frontalis, since these muscles have been observed to escape paralysis in lesions of the motor nucleus of the facial nerve.* The sensory root arises from the geniculate ganglion, which is situated on the genu of the facial nerve in the aqueductus Fallopii, behind the hiatus Fallopii. The cells of this gangUon are unipolar, and the single process given off from each divides in a T-shaped manner into a central and a peripheral branch. The central branches run inwards, and, leaving the trunk of the facial nerve in the internal auditory meatus, form the sensory root ; the peri- pheral branches are continued into the chorda tympani and great superficial petrosal nerves. Entering the brain at the lower border of the pons between the motor root internally and the auditory nerve externally, the fibres of the sensory root pass into the substance of the medulla and terminate in the upper part of the nucleus of the glosso-pharyngeal and in the fasciculus solitarius. From their superficial attachments to the brain, the two roots of the facial nerve pass outwards and forwards with the auditory nerve to the internal auditory meatus. In the meatus the motor root lies in a groove on the upper and anterior surface of the auditory nerve, the sensory root being placed between the two. At the bottom of the meatus, the facial nerve enters the aqueductus Fallopii, and follows the course of that canal through the petrous portion of the temporal bone, to its termination at the stylo-mastoid foramen. It is at first directed outwards between the cochlea and vestibule towards the inner wall of the tympanum ; it then bends suddenly backwards and arches downwards behind the tympanurn to the stylo-mastoid foramen. The point where it changes its direction is named the geniculum ; it presents a reddish ganghform swelling, the ganglion geniculi, or nucleus of the sensory root of the nerve (fig. 779). On emerging from the stylo-mastoid foramen, it runs forwards in the substance of the parotid gland, crosses the external carotid artery, and divides behind the ramus of the man- dible into two primary branches, temporo-facial and cermco-facial, from which numerous offsets are distributed over the side of the head, face, and upper part of the neck, supplying the superficial muscles in these regions. As tlie primary branches and their offsets diverge from each other, they present somewhat the appearance of a bird's foot or claws ; hence the name of pes anserinus is given to the divisions of the facial nerve in and near the parotid gland. * See footnote, page 841. Fig. 779.—The course and connections of the facial nerve in the temporal bone. Eai /I ranch to Join