OCCIPITO-AXIAL ARTICULATIONS 381 . ■ 1, flio iflnt? On either side this lieament is defective below, !■ re^fhe^up^^^^^^^^^ h'li^SebxSnoteh, and forms wfth this noteh the boundary o an opeZcr for the passage of the vertebral artery and suboccipital nerve. Tlie fiee Wer of thi Ugament, which arches over the artery and nerve, omet mes becomes ossified. The ligament is m relation behind with the Recti postici mmores and Obliqui superiores ; in front, ^vlth the dura mater of the spinal canal, to which it is intimately adherent. The Lateral Ligaments are thickened portions of the capsular ligament, reinforced bv bundles of fibrous tissue, which are directed obliquely upwards and mwards, attached above to the jugular processes of the occipital bone, below, to the bases of the transverse processes of the atlas. Fig. 431.—Sagittal section through the occipital bone and first three cervical vertebra. (Spalteholz.) Anterior occipito atlantal ligament ilenthrana tectoria Crus superiiis of transverse ligament Lig. apicis dentis- Ant. arch of atlas- Odontoid process of axis Articular cavity Transverse Ugament Anterior atlanto- axial ligament Intervertebral disc Anterior common ligament Superficial layer of memhrana tectoria *%%. ^Canalis hypoglossi occipifo- igament Posterior arch of atlas Snboccipital nerve Posterior common Ugament Synovial Membranes.—There are two synovial membranes : one Iming each of the capsular ligaments. The joints occasionally communicate with that between the posterior surface of the odontoid process and the transverse ligament. Movements.—The movements permitted in this joint are («) flexion and extension, which give rise to the ordinarv forward and backward nodding of the head, and (6) shght lateral motion to one or other side. Flexion is produced mainly by the action of the Recti capitis antici major and minor; extension by the Recti capitis postici major and minor, the Superior oblique, the Complexus, Splenius, Sterno-mastoid, and upper fibres of the Trapezius. _ The Recti laterales are concerned in tlie lateral movement, assisted by the Trapezius, Splenius, Complexus, and the Sterno-mastoid of the same side,' all acting together. According to Cruveilhier, there is a slight movement of rotation in this joint.