192 OSTEOLOGY they pass outwards, the grooves being separated by prominent lidges of bone which give origin to the Pyriformis. If a sagittal section be made through the centre of the sacrum (fig. 259), the bodies are seen to be united at their circumferences by bone, wide intervals being left centrally, which, in the recent state, are filled by the intervertebral discs. In some bones this union is more complete between the lower than between the upper segments. The fosterior surface (facies dorsalis) (fig. 258) is convex and narrower than the anterior. In the middle line it displays a crest (crista sacralis media) surmounted by three or four tubercles, the rudimentary spinous processes of the upper three or four sacral vertebrae. On either side of the spinous pro- cesses is a shallow groove, the sacral groove, which gives origin to the Multi- fidus spinas, the floor of the groove being formed by the united laminae of the corresponding vertebrae. The laminae of the fifth sacral vertebra, and Fig. 257.—Sacrum, anterior surface. sometimes those of the fourth, fail to meet behind, and thus a deficiency (hiatus sacralis) occurs in the posterior A\ all of the sacral canal. On the lateral aspect of the sacral groove is a linear series of tubercles produced by the fusion of the articular processes which together form indistinct crests (crista^ sacralej articulares). The articular processes of the first sacral vertebra are large and oval in shape ; then" facets are concave from side to side, look backwards and inwards, and articulate with the facets on the inferior processes of the httli lumbar vertebra. The tubercles which represent the inferior articular pro- cesses of the fifth sacral vertebra are prolonged do\\nwards as rounded ]Dro- cesses, which are named the sacral conma (cornua sacralis) and are connected to the cornua of the coccyx. External to the articular processes are tlie four posterior sacral foramirui (foramina sacralia posteriora) ; tliey are smaller in size and less regular in form than the anterior, and transmit the posterior divisions of the sacral nerves. On the outer side of the posterior sacral fora- mina is a series of tubercles, whioli represent the tramvcrsc processes ot tlie