867 THE LATERAL VENTRICLES this extends laterally on either side into the temporal lobe, and covers in the body of the lateral ventricle. The lateral ventricles (ventriculi laterales) (fig. 736).— The lateral ventricles, two in number, right and left, are irregular cavities situated in the lower and inner parts of the cerebral hemispheres, one on either side of the middle line. They are separated from each other by a mesial vertical partition, the septum pellucidum, but communicate with the third ventricle and indirectly with each other through the foramen of Monro. They are Hned by a thin, diaphanous membrane, the ependyma, which is covered by ciliated epithelium, and moistened by cerebro-spinal fluid, which, even in health, may be secreted in considerable amount. Each lateral ventricle consists of a central cavity or body, and three prolongations from it, termed cornua. The anterior cornu curves forwards and outwards into the frontal lobe ; the pos- terior backwards and inwards into the occipital lobe ; and the middle Fig. 735.—Drawing of a cast of the ventricular descends into the temporal lobe. cavities viewed from above. (Testut.) The body (pars centralis) (fig. 736) of the lateral ventricle extends from the foramen of Monro to the splenium of the corpus caUosum. It is an irregularly curved cavity, triangular in shape on transverse section, and presents a roof, a fioor, and an inner wall. Its roof is formed by the under surface of the corpus callosum ; its floor is formed by the following parts, enumerated in their order of posi- tion, from before backwards : the caudate nucleus of the corpus striatum, the ttenia semicircularis and the vein of the corpus striatum, the outer portion of the upper sur- face of the thalamus, the choroid plexus, and the lateral part of the fornix ; its iimer waU is the pos- terior part of the septum pelluci- dum, which separates it from the opposite ventricle, and connects the under surface of the corpus callosum with the fornix. Tiie anterior cornu (cornu anterius) passes forwards and out- wards, with a slight inclination downwards, from the foramen of Monro into the frontal lobe, curv- ing round the anterior extremity of the caudate nucleus. It is bounded above by the corpus caUosum, and below by the upper surface of the reflected portion of this, the rostrum. ' It is bounded internally by the anterior portion of the septum pellucidum, and externally by the head of the caudate nucleus of tlie corpus striatum. Its apex reaches the posterior surface of the genu of the corpus caUosum (fig. 741). 1 \. '^^^ posterior cornu (cornu posterius) (figs. 736,737) passes into the occipital lobe, its direction being backwards and outwards, and then mwards; its concavity 18 therefore directed inwards. Its roof is formed by the fibres of the corpus callosum passmg to the temporal and occipital lobes. On its inner wall is seen a longitudinal eminence, which is an involution of the ventricular wall pro- duced by the calcarme fissure ; this is called the hippocampus minor, or calcar Just above this the forceps major of the corpus callosum, sweeping round P^.^'^t^r the occipital lobe, causes another projection, which is Imown as the oulb of the posterior cornu. The hippocampus minor and bulb of the posterior cornu are extremely variable in then- degree of development; in some cases wicy are ill-defined, in others unusually prominent. 3k2 a', a'. The three horns—anterior, posterior, and middle—of the left lateral Tentricle. 6. Thu-d ventricle, c. Fourth ventricle, d. Commencement of central canal of cord. 1. In- ferior angle of fourtli ventricle. 2. Superior angle. 3. Lateral angle. 4. Sylvian aqueduct. 5. Recessus suprapinealis. 0. Vulva. 7. Jimction of descending and posterior horns.