568 MYOLOGY there are numerous smaller septa, separating the individual muscles, and enclosing each in a distinct slieatii. Tlie saphenous opening (fig. 541).—At the upper and inner part of the thigh, a little below the inner end of Poupart's ligament, is a large oval-shaped aperture in the fascia lata; it transmits the internal saphenous vein, and other smaller vessels, and is termed the saphenous opening. The cribriform fascia, which is pierced by the structures passing through the opening, closes tlie aperture and must be removed to expose it. The fascia lata in this part of the thigh is described as consisting of an iliac and a pubic portion. The iliac portion of the fascia lata is the part on the outer side of the saphenous opening. It is attached, externally, to the crest and anterior superior spine of the ilium and to the whole length of Poupart's ligament, and to the pectineal line in conjunction M'itli Gimbernat's ligament. From the spine of the pubis it is reflected downwards and outwards, forming an arched margin, the falciform process, or boundary of the saphenous opening ; this margin overlies and is adherent to the anterior layer of the sheath of the femoral vessels : to its edge is attached the cribrifoim fascia. The upward and inward prolongation of the falciform process is named the superior cornu : its downward and inward prolongation, the inferior cornu. The latter is well defined, and is continuous behind the saphenous vein with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The pubic portion is situated on the inner side of the saphenous openmg : at the lower margin of this aperture it is continuous with the iliac portion; traced upwards, it covers the Pectineus, Adductor longus, and Gracilis muscles, and, passing behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, to ^^ilich it is closely united, is continuous with the fascia iliaca, and is attached to the ilio-pectineal line. Prom this description it may be observed that the ihac portion of the fascia lata lies in front of the femoral vessels, and the pubic portion behind them, so that an apparent aperture exists betM^een the two, through which the internal saphenous passes to join the femoral vein. The Tensor fasciae femoris (m. tensor fasciae latse) arises from the anterior part of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium; from the outer surface of the anterior superior spine, and part of the outer border of the notch below it, between the Gluteus medius and Sartorius; and from the inner surface of the fascia lata. It is inserted between the two layers of the iho-tibial band of the fascia lata about the junction of the middle and upper thirds of the thigh. The Sartorius, the longest muscle in the body, is fiat, narrow, and ribbon- like ; it arises by tendinous fibres from the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the upper half of the notch below it. It passes obliquely across the upper and anterior part of the thigh, from the outer to the inner side of the limb, then descends vertically, as far as the inner side of the knee, passing behind the inner condyle of the femur to end in a tendon. Tiiis curves obliquely forwards and expands into a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted, in front of the Gracilis and Semitendinosus, into the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, nearly as far forwards as the crest. The upper part of the aponeurosis is curved backwards over tlie upper edge of the tendon of the Gracilis so as to be inserted behind it. An offset, derived from its upper margin, blends with the capsule of the knee-joint, and another, given off from its lower border, blends \viti\ the fascia on the inner side of the leg. The relations of this muscle to the femoral artery should be carefully examined, as it constitutes the chief guide in tying the vessel. In the iipjier third of the thigh it forms the outer side of a triangular space, Scarpa's triangle, the inner side of wliich is formed by the inner border of the Adductor longus. and the base, turned upwards, by PouiiartV ligament; the femoral artery ])asses perpendicularly through the middle of this space from its base to its apex. In the middle third of the thigh, the femoral artery is contained in Hunter's canal, on the roof of which lies the Sartorius. The Quadriceps extensor (m. quadriceps femoris) includes the four remaining muscles on (he front of the thigh. It is tlie great extensor muscle of the leg, forming a large fleshy mass, which covers the front and sides of the femur, being united below into a tendon, attached to the patella: