MYOLOGY 4(34 f lower part of the nasal bone and upper part of the cartilage, w here it blends with the Compressor naris, and it is inserted into the skin over tlie lower part of the forehead between the two ej^ebrows, its fibres decussating with tliose of the Occipito-frontalis. '^^V^ J-^^^^^^ labii superioris alaeque nasi is a thin triangular rausole placed by the side of tJie nose, and extending between tlie inner margin of the orbit and the upper lip. It arises by a pointed extremity from the upper part of tlie frontal process of the maxilla, and, passing obliquely downwards and outwards, divides into tw^o slips^ one of which is mserted into the cartilage of the ala of the nose ; the other is prolonged into the upper Up, blending with the Orbicularis oris and Levator labii superioris proprius. " The Dilatator naris posterior is a small muscle, which is placed partly beneath the elevator of the nose and lip. It arises from the margin of the nasal notch of the maxilla, and from the sesamoid cartilages, and Ls inserted into the skin near the margin of the nostrU. The Dilatator naris anterior is a thin delicate fasciculus, passing from the cartilage of the ala of the nose to the integument near its margin." This muscle is situated in front of the preceding. The Compressor naris is a small, thin, triangular muscle, arising by its apex from the maxilla, above and a little external to the incisive fossa': its fibres proceed upwards and inwards, expanding into a thin aponem-osis which is continuous on the bridge of the nose wdth that of the muscle of the opposite side, and wdth the aponeurosis of the Pyramidahs nasi. The Compressor narium minor is a small muscle, attached by one end to the alar cartilage, and by the other to the integument at the end of the nose. The Depressor alae nasi is a short radiated muscle, arising from the incisive fossa of the maxilla ; its fibres ascend to be inserted into the septum, and back part of the ala of the nose. This muscle lies between the mucous membrane and muscular structure of the lip. Nerves.—All the muscles of this group are suppUed by the facial nerve. Actions.—The Pyramidahs nasi drawls down the inner angle of the eyebrows and produces transverse wrinkles over the bridge of the nose. The Levator labii superioris alseque nasi draws upwards the upper hp and ala of the nose ; its most important action is upon the nose, which it dilates to a considerable extent. The action of this muscle produces a marked influence over the couuteuauce, and it is the principal agent in the expression of contempt and disdain. The two DUatatores enlarge the aperture of the nose. Their action in ordinary breathing is to resist the tendency of the nostrils to close from atmospheric pressure, but in difiicult breathing, as well as in some emotions, such as auger, they may be noticed to be in violent action. The Depressor alge nasi is a direct antagonist of the other muscles of the nose, drawing the ala of the nose downw-ards, and thereby constricting the aperture of the nares. The Compressor naris depresses the cartilaginous part of the nose and draws the alaj together. The Levator labii superioris proprius is a thin muscle, of a quadrilateral form. It arises from the lower margin of the orbit immediateh* above the infra-orbital foramen, some of its fibres being attached to the maxUla, others to the malar bone ; its fibres converge to be inserted mto the muscular suit stance of the upper lip, between the attachment of the Levator labii superioris alseque nasi and the Levator anguli oris. The Levator anguli oris (m. caninus) arises from the canine fossa, imnir- diately below tiie infra-orbital foramen ; its fibres incline downwards and a little "outwards, to be inserted into the angle of the mouth, intermingling with those of the Zygomaticus major, the Depressor anguli oris, and tli(> Orbicularis oris. The Zygomaticus major is a slender fasciculus, which arises from the malar bone, in front of the zygomatic suture, and descending obliquely down- VI. Maxillary Region (fig. 486) Levator labii superioris proprius. Levator anguli oris. Zygomaticus major. Zygomaticus minor.