627 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY cases. In other cases the arteiy arises as a separate branch from the arch of the aorta, or it may arise in conjunction with the left carotid. Tlie left commoyi carotid varies in its origin more than tlio right. In the majority of abnormal cases it arises with the irmominate artery, or, if the innommate artery is absent, the two carotids arise usually by a single trunk. It is rarely joined with the left subclavian, except in oases of trans- position of the arch. Pecttliarities as to point of division.—In the majority of abnormal cases, this occurs higher than usual, the artery dividing into two branches opposite the hyoid bone, or even higher ; more rarely, it occur sbelow, opposite the middle of the larynx, or the lower border of the cricoid cartilage ; and one case is related by Morgagni, where the common carotid, only an inch and a half in length, divided at the root of the neck. Very rarely, the common carotid ascends in the neck -nathout any subdivision, either the external or the internal carotid being wanting ; and in a few cases the common carotid has been found to be absent, the external and internal carotids arising directly from the arch of the aorta. This peculiarity existed on both sides in some instances, on one side in others. Occasional branches.—The common carotid usually gives off no branch previous to its bifurcation ; but it occasionally gives origin to the superior thyroid or its laryngeal branch, the ascending pharyngeal, the inferior thyi-oid, or, more rarely, the vertebral artery. Surface Marki7ig.—The course of the artery is indicated by a line cira-sra from the upper part of the sternal end of the clavicle below, to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process above. The portion of this line below the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage represents the course of the vessel. Applied Anatomy.—Aneurysms are not commonly met with on the common carotid ; when they do occur they are usually situated low down at the root of the neck, or just below the point of bifm-cation of the vessel. They do not frequently assume a large size, and are more commonly foimd on the right side. As they increase in size they cSsplace the trachea and larynx, and therefore dyspnoea becomes a prominent symptom. Dysphagia also may be present from pressure on the oesophagus, especially if the aneui-ysm is on the left side ; and pressure on the recm-rent laryngeal nerve may produce hoarseness and laryngeal cough. Pressure on the sympathetic v.'iU. cause pupillary changes—dilatation of the pupil when the sympathetic is kritated, contraction when it has become paralysed—and may also give rise to unilateral sweating. Pressure on the superficial branches of the cervical plexus may give rise to pain in the head, face, and neck ; pressure on the vagus to in-egular action of the heart and to asthmatic attacks. It is important to bear in mind that an enlarged gland in the superior carotid triangle, receiving a transmitted pulsation from the carotid artery, may simulate aneurysm of that vessel, but may be distinguished from it by the character of the pulsation, which is not distensile. Embolism of the left common carotid has been known to produce aphasia by inter- ference with the blood supply of the brain. Digital compression of the common carotid is sometimes required, and is best effected by compressmg the vessel ^v^th the thumb against the anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra (see page 185). Ligature of the common carotid artery may be necessary in a case of wound of that vessel or its branches, in aneurysm, or in a case of pulsating tumour of the orbit or skull. If the wound involves the trunk of the common carotid, it will be necessary to tie the artery above and below the wounded part. In cases of aneurysm, the whole of the artery is accessible, and any part may be tied, except close to either end. ^Vhen the case is such as to allow of a choice being made, the lower part of the carotid should never be selected as the spot upon which to place a hgature, for not only is the artery in this situation placed very deeply in the neck, but it is covered by three layers of muscles, and, on the left side, the internal jugular vem, in the great majority of cases, passes obUquely in front of it. Neither should the upper end be selected, for here the superior thyroid vein and its tributaries would give rise to very considerable difficulty in the application of a ligature. The part of the vessel which is most favourable for the operation is that opposite the level of the cricoid cartilage. It occasionally happens that the carotid artery bifurcates below its usual position : if the artery be exposed at its pomt of bifurcation, both divisions of the vessel should be tied near their origin, in preference to tying the trunk of the artery near its termination ; and if, in consequence of the entire absence of the common carotid, or from its early division, two arteries, the external and internal carotids, are met with, the ligature should be placed on that vessel which is found on compression to be connected with the diseased area. In this operation, the direction of the vessel and the inner margin of the Sterno-mastoid are the chief guides to its performance. The patient should bo placed on his back with the head extended and turned slightly to the opposite side : an incision is to be made, three inches long, in the direction of the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, so that the centre corresponds to the level of the cricoid cartilage. After dividing the integument, superficial fascia, and Platysma, the deep fascia must be cut through on a director, so as to avoid wounding numerous small veins that are usually found beneath. The head may now bo brought forwards so as to relax the parts somewhat, and the margins of the wound lield asunder by retractoi-s. The descendens hypoglossi nerve may now bo exposed, and S S 2