580 MYOLOGY septa, which enclose the Peronei longus et brevis, and separate them from the muscles on the anterior and posterior tibial regions, and several smaller and more slender processes which enclose the individual muscles in eacli region. At the same time a broad transverse intermuscular septum, called the deep transverse fascia of the leg, intervenes between the superficial and deep muscles in the posterior tibio-fibular region. The Tibialis anticus (m. tibialis anterior) is situated on the outer side of the tibia ; it is thick and fleshy at its upper part, tendinous below. It arises from the outer tuberosity and upper half or two-thirds of the external surface of the shaft of the tibia ; from the adjoining part of tlie interosseous membrane ; from the deep surface of the fascia ; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the Extensor longus digitorum. The fibres pass vertically downwards, and tei-minate in a tendon, which is apparent on the anterior surface of the muscle at the lower third of the leg. After passing through the innermost compartment of the anterior annular ligament, it is inserted into the inner and under surface of the internal cuneiform bone, and the base-of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Tliis muscle overlaps the anterior tibial vessels and nerve in the upper part of the leg. The Extensor proprius hallucis (m. extensor hallucis longus) is a thin, elongated, and flattened muscle, situated between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum. It arises from the anterior surface of the fibula for about the middle two-fourths of its extent, its origin being internal to that of the Extensor longus digitorum ; it also arises from the interosseous mem- brane to a similar extent." The anterior tibial vessels and nerve lie between it and the Tibialis anticus. The fibres pass downwards, and terminate in a tendon, which occupies the anterior border of the muscle, passes tlirough a distinct compartment in the lower portion of the annular ligament, crosses, from without inwards, the anterior tibial vessels near the bend of the ankle, and is inserted into the base of tlie last phalanx of the great toe. Opposite the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, the tendon gives off a thin prolongation on each side, to cover the surface of the joint. An expansion, from the inner side of the tendon, usually passes across to be inserted uito the base of the first phalanx. The Extensor longus digitorum is an elongated, flattened, penniform muscle, situated at the outer part of the front of the leg. It arises from the outer tuberosity of the tibia ; from the upper three-fourths of the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula ; from the upper part of the interosseous membrane ; from the deep surface of the fascia ; and from the intermuscular septa between it and the Tibialis anticus on the inner, and the Peronei on the outer side. Between it and the Tibiahs anticus are the upper portions of the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. The tendon passes under the aimular ligament in company with the Peroneus tertius, and divides into four slips which run forward on the dorsum of the foot, and are inserted into the second and third phalanges of the four lesser toes. Each of the three inner tendons, opposite the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, is joined, on its outer side, by a tendon of the Extensor brevis digitorum. The tendons are mserted in the following manner : each receives a fibrous expansion from tlie Interossei and Lumbricales, and then spreads out into a broad aponeurosis, which covers the dorsal surface of the first phalanx : this aponeurosis, at the articulation of the first with the second phalanx, divides into three shps, a middle one, which is inserted into the base of the second phalanx; and two lateral slips which, after uniting on the dorsal surface of the second phalanx, are continued onwards, to be inserted into the base of the third. The Peroneus tertius is a part of the Extensor longus digitorum, and might be described as its fifth tendon. The fibres belonging to this tendon arile from the third or more of the anterior surface of the fibula; trom the lower part of the interosseous membrane ; and froni an "^tf™niscular septum between it and the Peroneus brevis. The teiidon, after J'"^j.^^^^^"?^^^ the same canal in the annular ligament as tli% Extensor longus d^itorum is inserted into the dorsal surface of tlie base of the metatarsal bone ot the little toe. This muscle is sometimes wanting. Nerves.-Thesc muscles are supplied by the fourth and fifth hnnbar and first sacral nerves through the anterior tibial nerve.