MYOLOGY 474 layer of the opposite side. Above, it is fixed to the hyoid bone, while below it IS carried downwards m front of the trachea and large vessels at the root of the neck, and ultimately blends with the fibrous pericardium. This layer IS fused on either side with the prevertebral layer, \dth which it completes the compartment containing the larynx and trachea, the thyroid gland tlic pharynx and oesophagus. ' ApTplied Anatomy.~ThQ deep cervical fascia is of considerable importance from a surgical point of view. As will be seen from the foregoing description, it may be divided into three layers: (1) an investing layer; (2) a layer passing in front of the trachea, and formmg with the superficial layer a sheath for the depressors of the hyoid bone ; (3) a prevertebral layer passing in front of the bodies of the cervical vertebra and forming with the second layer a space m which is contained the trachea, oBsophagus &c. The investing layer would oppose the extension of abscesses towards the surface, and pus formmg beneath it would have a tendency to extend laterally. If the pus be contained in the anterior triangle, it may find its way into the anterior mediastinum, being situated in front of the layer of fascia which passes down into the thorax to become continuous Fig. 490.—Muscles of the neck. Lateral view. with the pericardium ; but owing to the less density and thickness of the fascia in tlnV situation it more frequently finds its way through it and points above the sternum. Pus forming beneath the second layer would in all probability find its waj' into tlie posterior mediastinum. Pus forming behind the jirevertebral layer, in cases, for instance, of caries of the bodies of the cervical vertebras, might extend towards tlie posterior and lateral part of the neck and point in this situation, or might perfornlc this layer of fascia and the pharjmgeal fascia and point into the pharjaix (retro-pharyngca! abscess). In cases of cut throat the cervical fascia is of considerable importance. When the wound involves only the investing layer the injury is usually trivial, the special danger being injury to the external jugular vein, and the special complication, diffuse celluhtis. But where the second of the two layers is ojoened up, important structures maj- be injured, and serious results follow. The sternal head of origin of the Stemo-mastoid is contained in Burns's space, so that this space is opened in division of this tendon. The lower jiart of the anterior jugular vein is also contained in the same .space.