NEUROLOGY 980 Fig. 811.—Cutaneous nerves of right lower extremity. Posterior view. \ / the fascia lata, and over the long head of the Biceps to the back of the knee : here it pierces the fascia and accompanies the external saphenous vein to about the middle of the back of tl)e leg, its terminal twigs communicating with the external saphenous nerve. Its branches are all cutaneous, and are grouped as follows : gluteal, perineal, and femoral. The gluteal branches, three or four in number, turn upwards round the lower border of the Gluteus maximus, and supply the skin covering the lower and outer part of that muscle. The perineal branches (rami perineales) are distributed to the skin at the upper and inner side of the thigh. One branch, longer than the rest, the inferior pudendal, curves forwards below and in front of the ischial tuberosity, pierces the fascia lata, and runs forwards beneath the superficial fascia of the peruiaium to the skin of the scrotum in the male, and of the labium majus in the female. It communicates with the inferior hsemorrhoidal and superficial permseal nerves. The femoral branches consist of numerous filaments derived from both sides of the nerve, and are distributed to the skin covering the back and mner side of the thigh, the popliteal space, and the upper part of the back of the leg. The great sciatic (n. ischiadicus) (fig. 813) supplies nearly the whole of the integument of the leg, the muscles of the back of the thigh, and those of the leg and foot. It is the largest nerve in the body, measuring three-quarters of an inch in breadth, and is the contmuation of the flattened band of the sacral plexus. It passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below tlie Pyriformis muscle. It descends between the great trochanter of the femur and the tuberosity of the ischium, along the back part of the thigh to about its lower third, wliere it divides mto two large branches, the internal and e.rternal popliteal nerves. This division may take place at any point between the sacral plexus and tlie lower third of the thigh. When it occurs at the plexus, the ex- ternal popliteal nerve usually pierces the Pyriformis. -i i i As the nerve descends along the DacK of tlie tliis^h, it rests upon tlie posterior sui-face of' the ischium, the nerve to the Quadratus femoris, and the external rotator muscles of the thigh, m company with the small sciatic nerve and artery. ^ and is covered by the Gluteus maximus; lower down, it lies upon the Adductor magnus, and is covered by the long head of the Biceps. 1/ \