ANGIOLOGY 606 The Right Ventricle (veutriculus dexter) is triangular in form, and extends from tlie right auricle to near tlie apex of the lieart. Its antero- superior surface is rounded and convex, and forms the larger part of tlie front of the heart. Its under surface is flattened, rests upon the Diaphragm, and forms a small part of the postcro-inferior surface of the heart. Its posterior wall is formed by the septum between the two ventricles, the septum ventri- culorum, which bulges into the right ventricle, so that a transverse section of the cavity presents a semilunar outline. Its upper and inner angle forms a conical pouch, the infmidibuhim, or conus arteriosus, from which the pulmonary artery arises. A tendinous band, which may be named the tendon of the conus arteriosus, extends upwards from the right auriculo-ventricular fibrous ring and connects the posterior surface of the conus arteriosus to the aorta. The wall of the right ventricle is thinner than that of the left, the proportion between them being as 1 to 3; it is thickest at the base, and gradually becomes thinner towards the apex. The cavity equals in size that of the left ventricle, and is capable of containing about three fluid ounces. Its interior (fig. 564) presents the following parts for examination : ^ . (Right auriculo-ventricular. tt„i„„„ (Tricuspid. Opemngs {p^t,^onary artery. |Pulmonary. -Golutnfiee-carnese. Chordae tendineaj. The right auriculo-ventricular orifice is the large oval aperture of com- munication between the right auricle and ventricle. Situated at the base of the ventricle, it measures about an inch and a half in diameter, and is surrounded by a fibrous ring, covered by the lining membrane of the heart; it is considerably larger than the corresponding aperture on the left side, being sufficient to admit the ends of four fingers. It is guarded by the tricuspid valve. The opening of the pulmonary artery is circular in form, and situated at the summit of the conus arteriosus, close to the septum ventriculorum. It is jilaced above and to the left of Fig. 566.—^Base of ventricles exposed by removal the amiculo-ventricular open- ing, and is guarded by the pulmonary valve. The tricuspid valve (valvula tricuspidaUs) (figs. 564, 565) consists of three somewhat triangular cusps or segments. The largest cusp is iirterposed between the auriculo-ventri- cular orifice and the infundi- bulum, and is termed the in- fundibular cusp. A second, the marginal ct(sp, is in relation to the right margin of the ven- tricle, and a third, the septal cusp, to the interventricular septum. They are formed by duplicatures of the fining mem- brane of the heart, strengthened b}^ intervening layers of fibrous tissue : their central parts are thick and strong, theii" marginal portions tliin and translucent, and in the angles between the latter small intermediate segments are sometimes seen. Their bases are attached to a fibrous ring surrounding the auriculo-ventricular orifice and are also joined to each other so as to form a contmuous annular membrane, while their apices project into tlie ventricular cavity. Their auricular surfaces, directed towards the blood current from the auricle, are smooth ; their ventricular surfaces, directed towards the wall of the ventricle, are rough and irregular and, together with the apices and margms of tlie cusps, give attachment to a number of delicate tendinous cords, the cJiord^e tendinece. of the auricles.