313 CARPUS PiSIFOKM (fig. 367) Tlie Pisiform (os pisiforme) may be known by its small size, and by its presenting a single articular facet. It is situated on a plane anterior to the other carpal bones and is spheroidal in form, with its long diameter directed vertically. Its dorsal surface presents a smooth, oval facet, for articulation with the cuneiform : this facet approaches the superior, but not the inferior border of the bone. Tlic palmar surface is rounded and rough, and gives attach- ment to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and to the Flexor carpi ulnaris and Abductor minimi digiti. Tlie outer and inner surfaces are also rough, the former being concave, the latter usually convex. Articulation.—The pisiform articulates with one bone, the cuneiform. Bones of the Lower Row Trapezium (fig. 368) The Trapezium (os multangulum majus) may be distinguished by a deep groove, for tlie tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis. It is situated at the external and inferior part of the carpus, between the scaphoid and first metacarpal bone. The superior surface is directed upwards and inwards ; internally, it is smooth, and articulates ^^dth the scaphoid ; externally, it is rough, and continuous with the external surface. The inferior surface, directed dowTiwards and outwards, is oval, concave from side to side, convex from before backwards, so as to form a saddle-shaped surface, for articulation with the base of the first metacarpal bone. The palmar surface is narrow Fig. 368.—The left trapezium. T-i , ., Givove For trapezoia ^^iifF'^;:^^ nidge For scaphoid For 2nd /.^ metacarpal \ For 1st metacarpal For trapezoid For 2nd metacarpal and rough. At its upper part is a deep groove, ruiming from above obliquely downwards and inwards : it transmits the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis, and is bounded externally by an oblique ridge. Tliis surface gives origin to the Abductor, Opponens, and Flexor brevis poUicis muscles, and also affords attachment to the anterior amiular ligament of the wist. The dorsal surface is rough. The external surface is broad and rough, for the attachment of ligaments. The internal surface presents two facets : the upper, large and concave, articulates with the trapezoid; the lower, small and oval, with the base of the second metacarpal. Articulations.—The trapezium articulates with four bones : the scaphoid above, the trapezoid and second metacarpal internally, the first metacarpal below. Trapezoid (fig. 369) The Trapezoid (os multangulum minus) is the smallest bone in the second row. It may be known by its wedge-shaped form, the broad end of the wedge forming the dorsal, the narrow end the palmar, surface; and by its having four articular surfaces touching each other, and separated by sharp edges. The superior surface, quadrilateral, smooth, and slightly concave, articulates with the scaphoid. The inferior surface articulates with the upper end of the second metacarpal bone ; it is convex from side to side, concave from before backwards, and subdivided, by an elevated ridge, into two unequal lateral facets. Fig. 369.—The left trapezoid. Palmar For For scaphoid surface trapezium Dorsal surface For OS magnum For 2nd metacarpal The dorsal and palmar