OSTEOLOGY 244 middle of the posterior border and running obliquely downwards and for- wards ; this groove is converted into a canal, the 'posterior 'palatine canal by the palate bone. In front of tlie opening of the antrum is a deeji groove, the lachrymal groove (sulcus lacrimalis), wliich is converted into a canal (canalis nasolacrimalis) by the lachrymal and inferior turbinated bones ; tliis canal opens into the inferior meatus of the nose and transmits the nasal duct. More anteriorly is a well-marked oblique ridge, the inferior turbinated crest (crista conchalis), for articulation with the inferior turbinated bone. The shallow concavitj'^ above this ridge forms part of the atrium of the middle meatus of the nose ; while that below it forms part of the inferior meatus. The antrum of Highmore (sinus maxUlaris) is a large pyramidal cavity, hollowed out of the body of the maxilla : its apex, directed outwards, is formed by the zygomatic process; its base, directed inwards, by the outer wall of the nose. Its \\&Vls are everywhere exceedingly thin, and correspond to the orbital, facial, and zygomatic surfaces of the body of the bone. Its inner wall, or base, presents, in the disarticulated bone, a large, irregular aperture, which Fig. 314.—Left maxilla. Liner surface. With frontal Bones partially closing orifice of antrum marhed in outline Ethmoid Itiferior turhinated Folate With nasal bone A7it. 7iasal S2)ine Bristle 2>assed through anterior palatine canal communicates with the nasal fossa. In the articulated skull tliis aperture is much reduced in size by the following bones : the uncinate process of the ethmoid above, the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinated below, the vertical plate of the palate behind, and a small part of the lachrymal above and in front. It communicates with the middle meatus of the nose, generally by two small apertures left between the above-mentioned bones. In tlie recent state, usually only one small opening exists, near the upper part of the cavity, sufficiently large to admit the end of a probe ; the other is closed by mucous membrane. On the posterior loall are the posterior dental canals, transmitting the posterior dental vessels and nerves to tlie molar teeth. The floor is formed by the alveolar process of the jaw, and, in a cavity of average size, is on a level with the floor of the nose ; where the cavity is large it readies below this level. Projecting into the floor of the antrum are several conical processes, corresponding to the roots of the first and second molar teeth :* in some cases the floor is perforated by the fangs of the teeth. The infra-orbital canal usually * The number of teeth whose fangs are in relation with tlie floor of the antrum is variable. The antrum ' may extend so as to be in relation to all the teeth of the true maxilla, from the canine to the dens sapicniia;.'—(Salter.)