486 MYOLOGY In a dissection of the soft palate from its posterior or nasal surface to its anterior or oral surface, tlio muscles would be exposed in the following order : viz. the posterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus, covered by a continuation of the mucous membrane of the floor of the nasal fossce ; the Azygos uvulai ; the Levator palati ; the anterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus ; the aponeurosis of the Tensor palati, and the Palato-glossus covered 'by a continuation of the oral mucous membrane. Nerves.—The Tensor palati is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion ; the remaining muscles of this group are in all probabihty supphed by the bulbar portion of the spinal accessory through the pharyngeal plexus.* Actions.—During the first stage of deglutition, the bolus is driven back into the fauces by the pressure of the tongue against the hard palate, the base of the tongue being, at the same time, retracted, and the larynx raised with the pharynx, and carried forwards under it. During the second stage the entrance to the laiynx is closed, not, as was formerly supposed, by the folding backwards of the "epi- glottis over it, but, as Anderson Stuart has shown, by the drawing forward of the arytenoid cartilages towards the cushion of the epiglottis—a movement produced by the contraction of the External thyro-arytenoid, the Arytenoid and the Aryteno-epiglottidean muscles. The bolus after leaving the tongue passes on to the posterior or laryngeal surface of the epiglottis, and ghdes along this for a certain distance ; t then the Palato- glossi muscles, the constrictors of the fauces, contract behind it; the soft palate is shghtly raised by the Levator palati, and made tense by the Tensor palati; and the Palato-pharyngei, by their contraction, pull the pharynx upwards over the bolus, and come nearly together, the uvula filling up the shght interval between them. By these means the food is prevented from passing into the naso- pharynx ; at the same time, the Palato-pharyngei form an inchned plane, directed obliquely downwards and backwards, along the under surface of which the bolus descends into the lower part of the pharynx. The Salpingo-pharyngei raise the upper and lateral parts of the pharynx—i.e. those parts which are above the points where the Stylo-pharyngei are attached to the pharvnx. Applied Anatomy.—After the operation for the closure of a cleft in the palate, the palate muscles, especially the Tensor and Levator palati, have a tendency to retard the healing process by active traction upon the Hne of suture. To ob%'iate this, it is necessary to divide them. This is best done by making longitudinal incisions, on either side, parallel to the cleft and just internal to the hamular process, in such a position as to avoid the posterior palatine artery. Paralysis of the soft palate is a common sequel of diphtheria; it gives rise to regurgitation of fluids through the nose. VII. Anterior Vertebral Region (fig. 496) Rectus capitis anticus major. Rectus capitis lateralis. Rectus capitis anticus minor. Longus colli. The Rectus capitis anticus major (m. longus capitis), broad and thick above, narrow below, appears like a continuation upwards of the Scalenus anticus. It arises by four tendinous slips, from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra?, and ascends, converging towards its fellow of the opposite side, to be inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone. The Rectus capitis anticus minor (m. rectus capitis anterior) is a .short, flat muscle, situated immediately behind the upper part of the preceding. It arises from the anterior surface of tlie lateral mass of the atlas, and from the root of its transverse process, and passing obliquely upw ards and inwards, is inserted into the basilar process immediately behind the preceding muscle. The Rectus capitis lateralis is a short, flat muscle, which arises from tiio upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into llio under surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone. * 'The Innervation of the Soft Palate,' by Aldrcn Turner, Journal of Arwtomy ami PhyKwhiii/, vol. x.xiii. ]). 523. t Wfilton (quotocl by Anderson Stuart) maintains that the epiglottis is not essential to tlie deglutition even of liquids.