281 SURFACE FORM OF THE SKULL is converted into a foramen, the interruption does not exist. A line carried from this notch or foramen downwards over the face, to the second bicuspid tooth of the mandible, passes over the infra-orbital and the mental foramina, and thus constitutes a guide to the points of exit of the three largest cutaneous branches of the fifth cranial nerve.. In the less civilised races, as the forehead recedes backwards, the supra-orbital arch becomes more prominent and approaches more to the condition seen in the monkey tribe, in which the supra-orbital arches are very largely developed and acquire additional promi- nence from the oblique direction of the frontal bone. 2. The internal angular -process can scarcely be felt. Its position is indicated by the angle formed by the supra-orbital arch with the frontal process of the maxiUa and the lachrymal bone at the inner side of the orbit. Between the internal angular processes is a broad surface, which assists in forming the root of the nose, and immediately above this an expanded, smooth, somewhat triangular area, the glabella, situated between and connecting the superciliary ridges. 3. The external angular process is much more strongly marked than the internal, and can be plainly felt. It is formed by the junction of the supra-orbital and temporal ridges, and, articulating ^vith the malar bone, it serves to a very considerable extent to support the bones of the face. In carnivorous animals the external angular process does not articulate with the malar, and therefore this lateral support to the bones of the face is not present. 4. The zygomatic arch can be felt throughout its entire length, and is formed by the malar bone and the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. Its anterior part is broad, and constitutes the prominence of the cheek ; its posterior part is narrow, and terminates just in front and a little above the tragus of the external ear. Its upper border may be traced backwards, as the posterior root, above the tragus and the external auditory meatus to join the posterior part of the lower temporal ridge, forming the supramastoid crest. A spot in this line, immediately in front of the upper border of the tragus and between it and the condyle of the mandible, is known as the pre-auricular point. Tliis is an important landmark, since the temporal vessels and the am'iculo-temporal nerve cross it, and two inches vertically above it is the lower end of the fissure of Rolando. The lower border of the zygomatic arch is more plainlj' to be felt than the upper, in consequence of the dense temporal fascia being attached to the latter, which somewhat obscures its outline. 5. Behind the ear the mastoid portion o f the temporal bone can be plainly felt, terminating below in a nipple-shaped process. Its anterior border lies immediately behind the concha, and its apex is about on a level with the lobule of the ear. It is rudimentary in infancy, but gi-aduaUy develops in childhood. 6. The external occipital protuberance {inion) can be felt at the level where the skin of the neck joins that of the head. At this point the skull is thick for the purposes of safety, while radiating from it aro numerous curved arches or buttresses of bone which give to this portion of the skull further security. 7. Rumiing outwards on either side from the external occipital protuberance is an arched ridge of bone, the superior curved line, which gives attachment to some of the muscles which keep the head erect on the vertebral column. Below this line the surface of bone is obscured by the overlying muscles, except in the middle, where the external occipital crest can generally be felt at the bottom of the nuchal furrow. Above it, the vault of the cranium is thuily covered with soft structiu'es, so that the form of this part of the head is almost exactly that of the upper portion of the occipital, the parietal, and the fi'ontal bones themselves ; in bald persons, even the lines of junction of the bones (especially that of the occipital and parietals at the lambdoid suture) may be defined as slight depressions, caused by the thickening of the borders of the bones. 8. Near the line of the greatest transverse diameter of the head are the parietal eminences, one on either side of the middle line ; they denote the points where ossification of the parietal bones began. Tlie parietal eminence is particularly exposed to injury from blows or falls on the head, but fracture is to a certain extent prevented by the shape of the bone, which forms a dome, so that the force of the blow is diffused over the bone in every direction. 9. At the side of the head is the temporal ridge. Commencing at the external angular process, it may be felt as a curved ridge, passing upwards on the frontal bone, and then curving backwards, separating the forehead from the temporal fossa. It may then be traced, in a curved direction, over the parietal bone, where, though less marked, it can generally be recognised. Finally, the ridge curves do\TOwards and forwards, and terminates in the posterior root of the zygoma. 10. The frontal eminences vary in prominence in different individuals, and are frequently unsymmctrical. Their prominence depends more upon the general shape of the bone than upon the size of the eminences themselves. As the skull is more highly developed in consequence of increased intellectual capacity, so the frontal bone becomes more upright, and the frontal eminences stand out in bolder relief. Thus they may be considered as affording, to a certain extent, an indication of the development of the frontal lobes of the brain, and of the mental powers ot the individual. 11. Below the frontal eminences are the superciliary ridges, which denote the position of the frontal sinuses, and vary in different individuals, being, as a rule, small in the female, absent in children, and sometimes unusually prominent in the male, when the frontal sinuses are largely developed. The degree of prominence of the superciliary ridges is not, however, necessarily dependent on the size of the frontal sinuses, tor large sinuses may be present in cases where there is but little elevation of the ridges,