1141 THE SMALL INTESTINE fourth lumbar vertebra. It now takes a second bend, and passes from right to left across the vertebral column, having a slight inclination upwards ; and on the left side of the vertebral column it ascends for about an inch, and then terminates opposite the second lumbar vertebra in the jejunum. As it unites mth the jejunum it turns abruptly forwards, forming the duodeno-jejunai flexure. From the above description it will be seen that the duodenum may be divided into four portions : superior, descending, transverse, and ascending. Relations.—The first or superior portion is about two inches m length. Bet^inning at the pylorus, it ends at the neck of the gall-bladder. It is the most movable of the four portions. It is almost completely covered by peritoneum derived from the two layers of the lesser omentum, but a small part of its posterior surface near the neck of the gall-bladder and the inferior vena cava is uncovered. It is in such close relation with the gall-bladder that it is usually found to be stained by bile after death, especially on its anterior surface. It is in relation above and in front ^dth the quadrate lobe of the liver and the gall-bladder ; behind with the gastro-duodenal artery, the Fig. 941.—Interior of a portion of the duodenum, showing bile papilla. Probe in duct of Wirsung Probe in common bile-duct common bile-duct, and the portal vein ; and below with the head and neck of the pancreas. The second or descending portion is between three and four inches in length, and extends from the neck of the gall-bladder on a level with the first lumbar vertebra along the right side of the vertebral column as low as the upper border of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. It is crossed in its middle third by the transverse colon, the posterior surface of which is uncovered by peritoneum and is connected to the duodenum by a small quantity of con- nective tissue. The portions of the descending part of the duodenum above and below this interspace are named the supra- and infra-colic portions, and are covered in front by peritoneum ; the infra-coUc part is covered by the right leaf of the mesentery. Posteriorly the descending portion of the duodenum is not covered by peritoneum. It is in relation, in front, \nth the transverse colon, and above this with the Uver ; behind, with the inner part of the right kidney to which it is connected by loose areolar tissue, the renal vessels, the vena cava inferior, and the Psoas magnus below ; at its inner side is the head of the pancreas, and the common bile-duct ; to its outer side is the hepatic flexure of the colon. The common bile-duct and the pancreatic duct perforate tlie inner side of this portion of the intestine obliquely, some three or four inches below the pylorus (fig. 941). The relations of the second part of the duodenum to the right kidney present considerable variations.