969 THORACIC NERVES Applied A^iatomy.—The lower seven thoracic nerves and the ilio-hjrpogastric from the first lumbar nerve supply the skin of the abdominal wall. They run downwards and inwards fairly equidistant from each other. The sixth and seventh supply the skin over the ' pit of the stomach ' ; the eighth correspond.s to about the position of the middle linea transversa ; the tenth to the umbilicus ; and the ilio-hypogastric supplies the skin over the pubis and external abdominal ring. In many diseases affecting the nerve-trunks at or near their origms, the paui is referred to their peripheral terminations. Thus, in Pott's disease of the spine, children will often be brought to the surgeon suffering from pain in the belly. This is due to the fact that the nerves are irritated at the seat of disease as they issue from the spinal canal. When the in-itation is confined to a smgle pan- of nerves, the sensation complained of is often a feeling of constriction, as if a cord were tied round the abdomen, and in these cases the situation of the sense of constriction may serve to localise the disease in the spinal column. In other cases where the bone disease is more extensive, and two or more nerves are involved, a more general, diffused pain in the abdomen is felt. Agam, it must be borne in mind that the same nerves which supply the skin of the abdomen supply also the planes of muscle which constitute the greater part of the abdominal wall. Hence, it follows that any irritation applied to the peripheral terminations of the cutaneous branches in the skin of the abdomen is immediately followed by reflex contraction of the abdominal muscles. The supply of both muscles and skin from the same source is of importance in protecting the abdominal viscera from injury. A blow on the abdomen, even of a severe character, will do no injury to the viscera if the muscles are in a condition of firm contraction ; whereas in cases where the muscles have been taken unawares, and the blow has been struck while they were in a state of rest, an injury insufficient to produce any lesion of the abdominal wall has been attended with rupture of some of the abdominal contents. The importance, therefore, of immediate reflex contrac- tion upon the receipt of an mjury cannot be over-estimated, and the intimate association of the cutaneous and muscular fibres in the same nerve produces a much more rapid response on the part of the muscles to any peripheral stimulation of the cutaneous fila- ments than would be the case if the two sets of fibres were derived from independent sources. Again, the nerves supplying the abdominal muscles and skin, derived from the lower intercostal nerves, are intimately connected with the sympathetic supplying the abdominal viscera through the lower thoracic ganglia from which the sislanchnic nerves are derived. In consequence of this, in laceration of the abdominal viscera and in acute peritonitis, the muscles of the belly wall become firmly contracted, and thus as far as possible preserve the abdominal contents in a condition of rest. Inflammation of the ganglia on one or more of any of the posterior nerve-roots is the cause of shingles * or herpes zoster, in which there is a painful eruption of groups of cutaneous vesicles corresponding to the distribution of the nerves derived from the affected ganglia. It is commonest in the intercostal nerves ; the eruption is often preceded and followed, as well as accompanied, by girdle pains, and in old people these may be prolonged and serious in character. Herpes is the analogue on the sensory side to anterior poliomyelitis (page 810) on the motor side of the nervous system. LUMBO-SACRAL PLEXUS The anterior primaiy divisions of the lumbar, sacral and coccygeal nerves form the lumbo-sacral plexus, the first lumbar nerve being frequently joined by a branch from the twelfth thoracic. For descriptive purposes this plexus is usually divided into three parts—the lumbar, sacral and pudendal plexuses. LUMBAR NERVES (NN. LUMBALES) The anterior primary divisions of the lumbar nerves increase in size from above downwards. They are joined, near their origins, by grey rami communi- cantes from the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic cord. These rami consist of long, slender branches which accompany the lumbar arteries round tlie sides of the vertebral bodies, beneath the Psoas magnus. Their arrangement is somewhat irregular : one ganglion may give rami to two lumbar nerves, or one lumbar nerve may receive rami from two ganglia. The first and second, and sometimes the third and fourtli lumbar nerves are each connected with the lumbar part of the sympatlietic cord by a tvhiie ramus communicans. The nerves pass obliquely outwards behind the Psoas magnus, or between its fasciculi, distributing filaments to it and the Quadratus lumborum. The first * From Lat. cimgulvm, a belt.