SYNDESMOLOGY 416 condyle, which is received into the concavity above mentioned. All the bonv surfaces ol the articulation are covered with cartilage, and connected together by a Capsule, strengthened by the following ligaments : Anterior. Internal lateral. Posterior. External lateral. The Anterior Ligament (lig. radiocarpeum volare) (fig. 456) is a broad membranous band, attached above to the anterior margin of the lower end of the i-adius, to its styloid process and to the front of tlie lower end of tlie ulna • Its fibres pass downwards and inwards to be inserted into the palmar surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform, some of the fibres being continued to the OS magnum. In addition to this broad membrane, there is a distinct rounded fasciculus, superficial to the rest, which passes from the base of the styloid process of the ulna to the semilunar and cuneiform. The ligament is perforated by numerous apertures for the passage of vessels, and is in relation m front, with the tendons of the Flexor profundus digitorum and Flexor longus polhcis ; behind, it is closely adherent to the anterior border of the triangular fibro-cartilage of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation. Fig. 457.—Ligaments of mist and hand. Posterior view. The Posterior Ligament (lig. radiocarpeum dorsale) (fig. 457), less thick and strong than the anterior, is attached, above, to the posterior border of the lower end of the radius ; its fibres pass obliquely downwards and inwards, to be attached to the dorsal surfaces of the scaijhoid, semilunar, and cmieiform. being continuous witli those of the dorsal carpal ligaments. It is in relation, behind, with the Extensor tendons of the fingers ; in front, it is blended witli the triangular fibro-cartilage. The Internal Lateral Ligament (lig. collaterale carpi ulnare) (fig. 456) is a rounded cord, attaclied above to the extremity of the styloid process of the ulna, and dividing below into t^-o fasciculi, one of which is attached to the inner side of the cuneiform, tlie other to the pisiform and annular ligament. The External Lateral Ligament (lig. collaterale carpi radiale) (fig. 456) extends from the summit of the styloid process of tlie radius to the out^r side of the scaphoid, some of its fibres being prolonged to the trapezium and annular ligament. It has in relation with it the radial artery, which separates the ligament from the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi and Extensor brevis pollicis.