143 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIES tliird arch the right dorsal aorta disappears as far as the point where the two dorsal aortse fuse to form the descending aorta. The part of the left dorsal aorta which intervenes between the third and fourth arches disappears, while the remainder persists to form the descending part of the arch of the aorta. A constriction, the aortic isthmus, is sometimes seen in the aorta, between the origin of the left subclavian and the attachment of the ductus arteriosus. "Sometimes the right subcla\dan artery arises from the aortic arch beyond the ori<nn of the left subclavian and passes upwards and to the right behind the trachea and oesophagus. This condition may be explained by the persistence of the right dorsal aorta and the obUteration of the fourth right arch. In birds the fourth right arch forms the arch of the aorta ; m reptiles the fourth arch on both sides persists and gives rise to the double aortic arch in these '^'^ The heart originally Ues on the ventral aspect of the pharynx, immediately behind the stomatodajum. "With the elongation of the neck and development of the lungs it recedes within the thorax, and, as a consequence, the anterior EiG. 191.—Scheme of the aortic arches and theh- destination. (Modified from KoUmann.) External carotid Ventral aorta Internal carotid Common carotid night subclavian artery Bight pulmonary artery Trunk of pulmonary artery — Aortic arch Ductus arteriosus Vertebral artery Subclavian artery Left pulmonary artery ventral aortse are drawn out and the original position of the fourth and fifth arches is greatly modified. Thus, on the right side the fourth recedes to the root of the neck, while on the left side it is withdrawn within the thorax. The recurrent laryngeal nerves originally pass to their distribution under the sixth pair of arches, and are therefore pulled backwards mth the descent of these structures, so that in the adult the left hooks round the ductus arteriosus ; owing to the disappearance of the fifth and the sixth right arches the right nerve hooks round that immediately above them, i.e. the commencement of the subclavian artery. A series of segmental arteries arises from the primitive dorsal aortse, those in the neck alternating with the cervical segments of the spine. The seventh segmental artery which lies between the sixth and seventh cervical segments is of special interest, since it forms the lower part of the vertebral artery and, when the foreUmb bud appears, sends a branch to it (i.e. the subclavian artery) ; the upper part of the vertebral artery is formed by an inter-segmental anastomosis between the higher segmental arteries. From the seventh segmental arteries the entire left subclavian and the greater part of the right subclavian are formed.