PHARYNGEAL REGION 483 Relations.—The Inferior constrictor is covered by a thin membrane which surrounds « the entire pharj'nx (bucco-pharjmgeal fascia). Behind, it is in relation \\\t\\ the vertebral coluima and the prevertebral fascia and muscles ; laterally, with the thyroid gland, the common carotid artery, and the Sterno-thyroid muscle ; by its internal surface, with the Middle constrictor, the Stylo-pharyngeus, Palato-pharj'ngeus, the pharyngeal aponeurosis and mucous membrane of the pharynx. The internal laryngeal nerve and the laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery run near the ujiper border, and the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve and the laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery pass beneath the lower border of this muscle, before they enter the larynx. The Middle constrictor (ra. constrictor pharyngis medius) ii? a flattened, fan-shaped muscle, smaller than the preceding. It arises from the whole length of the upper border of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, from the lesser cornu, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament. The fibres diverge from their origin : the lower ones descending beneath the Inferior constrictor, the middle fibres passing transversely, and the Fig. 494. —Muscles of the pharynx. External view. upper fibres ascending and overlapping the Superior constrictor. The muscle is inserted into tlie posterior median fibrous raphe, blending in the middle line with the one of the opposite side. Relations.—This muscle is separated from the Superior constrictor by the glosso- phai-yngeal nerve and the Stylo-pharyngeus and stylo-hyoid ligament; and from the Inferior constrictor by the internal laryngeal nerve and laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery. Behind, it Ues on the prever- tebral fascia, the Longus colli, and the Rectus capitis anticus major. On its outer side it is in relation with the carotid vessels, the pharyngeal plexus, and some lympliatic glands. Near its origin it is covered by the Hyo-glossus, from which it is separated by the lingual vessels. It Ues upon the Superior constrictor, the Stylo-pharyngeus, the Palato-pharyngeus, the pharyngeal aponeurosis, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The Superior constrictor (m. con- strictor pharyngis superior) is a quadi-i- lateral muscle, thinner and paler than the other Constrictors, and situated at the upper part of the pharynx. It arises from the lower third of the pos- terior margin of the internal pterygoid plate and its hamular process, from the pterygo-mandibular ligament, from the alveolar process of the mandible above the posterior extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge, and by a few fibres from the side of the tongue. From these points the fibres curve backwards, to be inserted into the median raphe, being also prolonged by means of an aponeurosis to the pharyngeal spine on the basilar process of the occipital bone. The superior fibres arch beneath the Levator palati and the Eustachian tube. The interval between the upper border of the muscle and tlie base of the skuU is deficient in muscular fibres, and closed by the pharyngeal aponeurosis ; it is known as the sinus of Morgagni. Relations.-—The Superior constrictor is in relation by its outer surface with the pre- vertebral fascia and muscles, the vertebral column, the internal cai-otid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, the internal jugular vein and pharyngeal venous plexus, and the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, hypoglossal, lingual, and sympathetic nerves, the Middle constrictor and Internal pterygoid mtiscles, the styloid process, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the Stylo-pharyngeus. By its internal surface it is in relation I I 2