4G0 MYOLOGY the upiDer lip and not into the angle of the mouth, draws it backwards, upwards, and outwards, and thus gives to the face an expression of sadness. VII. Mandibular Region (fig. 486) ' Levator menti. Depressor labii inferioris. Depressor anguli oris. The Levator menti (m. mentalis) or Levator labii inferiorLs is a small conical fasciculus, placed on the side of the frsenum of the lower lip. It arises from the incisive fossa, external to the symphysis menti ; its fibres descend to be inserted into the integument of the chin. The Depressor labii inferioris (m. quadratus labii inferioris) is a small quadrilateral muscle. It arises from the external oblique line of the mandible, between the symphysis and the mental foramen, and passes obliquely up- wards and inwards, to be inserted into the integument of the lower lip, its fibres blending with the Orbicularis oris, and with those of its fellow of the opposite side. It is continuous Avith the fibres of the Platj^sma at its origm. This muscle contains much yellow fat intermingled with its fibres. The Depressor anguli oris (m. triangularis) is triangular in shape, arising by its broad base, from the external oblique line of the mandible, W'hence its fibres pass upwards, to be inserted, by a narrow fasciculus, into the angle of the mouth. It is continuous wdth the Platysma at its origin, and -with tlie Orbicularis oris and Risorius at its insertion, and some of its fibres are directly continuous with those of the Levator anguli oris. Nerves.—This group of muscles is supphed by the facial nerve. Actions.—The Levator menti raises and protrudes the lower hp, and at the same time wrinkles the integument of the chin, expressing doubt or disdain. The Depressor labii inferioris draws the lower lip directly downwards and a Uttle outwards, as in the expression of irony. The Depressor anguU oris depresses the angle of the mouth, being the antagonist of the Levator auguU oris and Zygomaticus major ; acting with the Levator anguU oris, it will draw the angle of the mouth directly inwards. VIII. Interbiaxillary Region Orbicularis oris. Buccinator. Risoruis. The Orbicularis oris (fig. 486) is not a simple sphincter muscle like the Orbicularis palpebrarum, but consists of numerous strata of muscular fibres having different directions and surrounding the orifice of the mouth. These fibres are partially derived from the other facial muscles which are mserted into the lips, and are partly fibres proper to the lips themselves. Of the former, a considerable number are derived from the Buccinator and foi-m the dfeeper stratum of the Orbicularis. Some of the Buccinator fibres—namely, those near the middle of the muscle—decussate at the angle of the mouth, those arising from the maxilla passing to the lower lip, and those from the mandible to the upper lip. Other fibres of the muscle, situated at its upper and lower part, pass across the lips from side to side without decussation. Superficial to this stratum is a second, formed on either side by the Levator and Depressor anguli oris muscles, which cross each other at the angle ot th- mouth ; those from the Depressor passing to the upper hp, and tjiose^ tror the Levator to the lower lip. along which they run to be inserted into 11 skin near the median line. In addition to those there are fibres from otln muscles inserted into the lips, the Levator labii superioris, the Levator labn superioris ateque nasi, the Zygomatici, and the Depressor laljii inferioris : these intermingle with tlie transverse fibres above described, and liave princi pallv an oblique direction. The proper fibres of tlie lips arc oblique, and pass from the under surface of the skin to the mucous membrane tlu-ougli tlie thickness of the lip. Finally there are fibres by which the muscle .s connected with the maxiUse and the septum of the nose and with themandihle^ In the upper lip these consist of two bands, imier and outer, on each side ot ni le er