OSTEOLOGY 356 The superior or dorsal surface, directed upwards and outw ards, is rough, for the attachment of numerous ligaments. The inferior or plantar surface presents in front a deep groove (sulcus m. perontei), which runs obliquely from without, forwards and inwards ; it lodges the tendon of the Poroneus longus, and is bounded behind by a prominent ridge, to which the long calcaneo-cuboid ligament is attached. The ridge terminates externally in an eminence, the tuberosity (tuberositas oss. cuboidei), the surface of which presents a convex facet; on this facet glides the sesamoid bone or cartilage frequently found in the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The surface of bone behind the^ groove is rough, for the attachment of the short plantar ligament, a few liljres of the Flexor brevis hallucis, and a fasciculus from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. The external surface presents a deep notch formed by the commence- ment of the peroneal groove. The posterior surface is smooth, triangular, and concavo-convex, for articulation with the anterior surface of the os calcis. The anterior surface, of smaller size, but also irregularly triangular, is divided by a vertical ridge into two facets : the inner, quacb-ilateral in form, articulates with the fourth metatarsal; the outer, larger and more triangular, articulates with the fifth. The internal surface is broad, rough, irregularly quadrilateral, present- ing at its middle and upper part a smooth oval facet, for articulation witli the external cuneiform ; and behmd this (occasionally) a smaller facet, for articulation with the navicular ; it is rough in the rest of its extent, for the attachment of strong interosseous ligaments. Articulations.—The cuboid articulates with four bones : the _ os calcis, external cuneiform, and fourth and fifth metatarsals; occasionally with a fifth, the na\dcular. The Navicular (fig. 407) The Navicular or Scaphoid (os naviculare pedis) is situated at the inner side of the tarsus, between the astragalus behmd and the three cuneiform bones in front. i t -j j t, ^ The anterior surface is convex from side to side, and subdivided by two ridges into tliree facets, for articulation with the three cuneiform bones. The posterior surface is oval, concave, broader externally than internally, and articulates with the rounded head of the astragalus. The superior surface iS convex from side to side, and rough for the attachment of ligaments. The Fig. 407. The left navicular, a. Antero-external view. B. Postero-internal view. For mid. cuneiform B . / ^ Occasional ^"^ ~ facet for cuboid For astragalus Tubercle inferior surface is irregular, and also rough for the attachment of l^ga™^"t^- Tiie inierjial surface presents a rounded tubercle (tuberositas ossis naviculans the lower part of which gives attachment to part of the tendon of « ^ Tibiali.j posticus. The external surface is rough and irregular fo^^.tl^^/ttato ligaments, and occasionally presents a small facet for articulation with the """^AitiSSations.-The navicular articulates with four bones : the astragalus and the three cuneiforms ; occasionally with a fifth, the cuboid.. The Internal Cuneiform (fig. 408) The Internal Cuneiform (os cuneiforme primum) is ^a^-f«f three cuneiforms. It is situated at the mner side of the foot, bet^^een the navicular bcJiind and the base of the first metatarsal in tront.