1025 THE EYE II. ViTEEOtrs Body The vitreous body (corpus vitreum) forms about four-fifths of the globe of the eye. It fills the concavity of the retina, and is hollowed in front, forming a deep concavity, the fossa hyaloidea, for the reception of the lens. It is perfectly transparent, of the consistence of thin jelly, and is composed of an albuminous fluid enclosed in. a delicate transparent membrane, the membrana hyaloidea. It has been supposed, by Hannover, that from its inner surface numerous thin lamellae are prolonged inwards in a radiating manner, forming spaces in which the fluid is contained. In the adult, these lamellte cannot be detected even after careful microscopic examination in the fresh state, but in preparations hardened in weak chromic acid it is possible to make out a distinct lameUation at the periphery of the body ; and in the foetus a peculiar fibrous texture pervades the mass, the fibres joining at numerous points, and presenting minute nuclear granules at their point of junction. In the centre of the vitreous humour, running from the entrance of the optic nerve to the posterior surface of the lens, is a canal, the canalis hyaloideus, filled with fluid and fined by a prolongation of the hyaloid membi-ane. This canal, in the embryonic vitreous body, conveyed the minute vessel from the central artery of the retina to the back of the lens. The fluid from the vitreous body is nearly pure water ; it contains, however, some salts, and a Uttle albumen. The membrana hyaloidea encloses the whole of the vitreous body. In fi'ont of the ora sen-ata it is thickened by the accession of radial fibres and is termed the zomile of Zinn or zonula ciliaris. Here it presents a series of radially arranged furrows, in which the cifiary processes are accommodated and to which they adhere, as is shown by the fact that when they are removed some of their pigment remains attached to the zonule. The zonule of Zinn spfits into two layers, one of which is thin and lines the fossa hyaloidea, the other is named the suspensory ligament of the lens ; it is thicker, and passes over the ciliary body to be attached to the capsule of the lens a short distance in front of its equator. Scattered and dehcate fibres are also attached to the region of the equator itself. Tliis ligament retains the lens in position, and is relaxed by the contraction of the radial fibres of the Ciliary muscle, so that the lens is allowed to become more convex. Behind the suspensory ligament there is a sacculated canal, the canal of Petit, which encircles the equator of the lens and which can be easily infiated through a fine blowpipe inserted under the suspensory figament. No vessels penetrate the vitreous body ; so that its nutrition must be carried on b}' the vessels of the retina and ciliary processes, situated upon its exterior. III. Crystalline Lens The crystalline lens (lens crji-staUina), enclosed in its capsule, is situated immed-iately behind the iris, in front of the vitreous body, and encircled by the ciliary processes, which shghtly overlap its margin. The capsule of the lens (capsula lentis) is a transparent structureless membrane which closely sui-rounds the lens, and is thicker in front than behind. It is brittle I^g- 845.—The crystalline lens, but liiglily elastic, and wlien ruptured the edges hardened and divided, roll up with the outer surface innermost. It (Enlarged.) rests, behind, in tlie fossa hyaloidea in the fore-part of the vitreous body ; in front, it is in contact with the free border of the iris, but recedes from it at the cu-cumference, thus forming the posterior chamber of the eye; it is retained in its position cliiefly by the suspensory ligament of the lens, akeady described. The lens is a transparent biconvex body, the convexity of its anterior being less than that of its posterior surface. The central points of these surfaces are termed respectively the anterior and posterior poles. A, fine connectmg the poles constitutes the axis of the lens (axis lentis), while the marginal circumference is termed the equator (aequator lentis). 3u