SPLANCHNOLOGY 1206 Fig. 1001.—The testis in situ, the tunica vaginahs having been laid open. Si^ermatic cord Artery of cord Tunica v%jliialis, parietal layer Digital fossa blood-letting from this part is judged to be desirable. The muscular fibre in the dartos causes contraction and considerable diminution in the size of a wound of the scrotum, as after the operation of castration, and is of assistance in keeping the edges together, and covering the exposed parts. The testes are suspended in the scrotum by the spermatic cords the left testis hanging somewhat lower than its fellow." The average dimensions of the testis are from one and a half to two inches in length, an inch in breadth, and an inch and a quarter in the antero-posterior diameter; its weight varies from six to eight drachms. Each testis is of an oval form (fig. 1001), compressed laterally, and having an oblique position in the scrotum ; the upper extremity is directed forwards and a little outwards ; the lower, backwards and a httle inwards ; the anterior convex border looks forwards and downwards ; the posterior or straight border, to which the cord is attached, backwards and upwards. The anterior border and lateral surfaces, as well as both extremities of the organ, are convex, free, smooth, and invested by the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis. The posterior border, to which the cord is attached, receives only a partial investment from that membrane. Lying upon the outer edge of this posterior border is a long, narrow, flattened body, named, from its relation to the testis, the epididymis. It consists of a central portion, or body (corpus) ; an upper enlarged extremity, the globus major, or head (caput) ; and a lower pointed extremity, the globus minor, or tail (cauda), which is continuous with the vas deferens or duct of the testis. The globus major is intimately connected with the upper end of the testis by means of the efferent ducts of the gland ; the globus minor is connected \\4th the lower end by cellular tissue, and a reflection of the tunica vaginalis. The outer surface and upper and lower ends of the ej)ididymis are free and covered by the serous membrane ; the body is also completely invested by it, excepting along its posterior border ; whjlst between the body and the testis is a pouch, named the digital fossa (sinus epididymidis). The epididymis is comaected to the back of the testis by a fold of the serous membrane. Attached to the ujiper end of the testis, close to the globus major, are two small pedunculated bodies. One of them is pear-shaped, and attached by its narrow stalk, the other is small and sessile ; they are believed to be the remains of the upper extremity of the Miillerian duct (page 170), and are termed the hydatids of Morgagni ; some observers, however, regard the stalked hydatid as bemg a rudiment of the pronephros. The testis is invested by three tunics : the tunica vaginalis, tunica albuginea, and tunica vasculosa. The tunica vaginalis is the serous covering of the testis. It is a pouch of serous membrane, derived from the peritoneum during the descent of the testis, in the foetus, from the abdomen into the scrotum. After its descent, that portion of the pouch which extends from the internal ring to near the upper part of the gland becomes obliterated ; the lower portion remains as a shut sac, which invests the outer surface of the testis, and is reflected on to the internal surface of the scrotum ; hence it may be described as consisting of a visceral and parietal portion. The visceral portion (lamina visceralis) covers the greater part of the testis and epididymis, connecting the latter to tlie testis by means of a distinct fold. From the posterior border of the gland it is reflected on to the internal surface of the scrotum.