VEINS OF THE HEAD AND FACE 731 Applied Anatomy.—There are some points about the facial vein which render it of great importance in surgery. It is not so flaccid as are most superficial veins, and, in consequence of this, remains more patent when divided. It has, moreover, no valves. It communicates freely with the intracranial circulation, not only at its commencement by the angular and supra-orbital veins which communicate -with the ophthalmic vem, a tributary of the cavernous sinus, but also by the deep facial vein, which communicates through the pterygoid plexus \vith the cavernous sinus by branches which pass through the foramen ovale and foramen laccrum medium (see page 730). These facts have an important bearing upon the surgery of some diseases of the face ; for on account of its patency the facial vein favours septic absorption, and therefore any phlegmonous inflam- mation of the face following a poisoned wound is liable to set up thrombosis in the facial vein, and detached portions of the clot may give rise to purulent foci in other parts of the body. On account of its communications mth the cerebral sinuses, these thrombi are apt to extend upwards into them, and so induce a fatal issue; this has been known to follow facial carbuncle. The superficial temporal vein (v. temporalis superficialis) commeuces on the side and vertex of the skuU in a plexus which commmiicates -with the frontal and supra-orbital veins in front, the corresponding vein of the opposite side, and the posterior auricular and occipital veins behind. From this network anterior and posterior branches arise, and imite above the zygoma to form the trmik of the vein, which is joined in this situation by a large vein, the middle temporal (v. temporalis media), from the substance of the Temporal muscle. It then crosses the posterior root of the zygoma, enters the substance of the parotid gland, and imites with the internal maxillary vein to form the tempore-maxiUary vein. Tributaries.—The temporal vein receives in its course some parotid veins, articular veins fi-om the temporo-mandibular joint, anterior auriciilar veins from the external ear, and a vein of large size, the transverse facial (v. transversa faciei), from the side of the face. The middle temporal vein, previous to its junction with the temporal vein, receives the orbital vein, which is formed by some external palpebral branches, and passes backwards betM^eeu the layers of the temporal fascia. The pterygoid plexus (plexus pterygoideus) is of considerable size, and is situated between the Temporal and External pterygoid, and partly between the two Pterygoid muscles. It receives tributaries corresponding wdth the branches of the internal maxillary artery. Thus it receives the middle meningeal, the deep temporal, the pterygoid, masseteric, buccal, alveolar, some palatine veins, and the inferior dental, and a branch which communicates with the ophthalmic vein through the spheno-maxillary fissure. This plexus communicates very freely with the facial vein ; it also communicates with the cavernous sinus, by branches through the foramen Vesalii, foramen ovale, and foramen lacerum medium, at the base of the skull. The internal maxillary vein (v. maxillaris interna) is a short trunk which accompanies the first part of the internal maxillary artery. It is formed by a confluence of the veins of the pterygoid plexus, and passes backwards between the internal lateral ligament and the neck of the mandible, and imites with the temporal vein to form the temporo-maxillar}^ vein. The temporo-maxiUary vein (v. facialis posterior), formed by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary veins, descends in the substance of the parotid gland, superficial to the external carotid artery but beneath the facial nerve, between the ramus of the mandible and the Sterno-mastoid muscle. It divides into two branches, an anterior, which passes inwards to join the facial vein, and a posterior, which is joined by the posterior auricular vein and becomes the external jugular. The posterior auricular vein (v. auricularis posterior) commences upon the side of the head, in a plexus which communicates with the tributaries of the temporal and occipital veins. It descends behind the external ear, and joins the posterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein to form the external jugular. It receives the stylo-mastoid vein, and some tributaries from the back part of the external ear. The occipital vein (v. occipitalis) commences in a plexus at the back part of the vertex of the skull. From the plexus emerges a single vessel, which pierces the cranial attachment of the Trapezius and, dipping into the sub-occipital triangle, joins the deep cervical vein. Occasionally it follows the course of the