OSTEOLOGY 240 broken in disarticulating the bones, forms a small part of the inner wall of the maxillary sinus or antrum of Highmore, and articulates witli the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinated bone. The inner surface of the lateral mass (fig. 309) forms part of the outer wall of the corresponding nasal fossa. It consists of a thin lamella, wliich descends from the under surface of the cribriform plate, and terminates below in a free, convoluted margin, the middle turbinated process (concha nasalis media). The Avhole of this surface is rough, and marked above by numerous grooves, which run nearly vertically downwards from the cribriform plate ; they lodge branches of the olfactory nerves, which are distributed to the mucous membrane covering the superior turbinated process. The back part of this surface is subdivided by a narrow obhque fissure, the superior meatus of tlie nose, which is bounded above by a thin, cm'ved plate, the siiperior turbinated process (concha nasahs superior) ; the posterior ethmoidal cells open into this meatus. Below, and in front of the superior meatus, is seen the convex inner surface of the middle turbinated process. It extends along the wliole length of the inner surface of the lateral mass, and its lower margin is free and thick ; its outer sui-face is concave, and assists in forming the middle meatus of the nose. The middle ethmoidal cells open into the central part of this meatus and from its front part a sinuous passage, termed the infundibulum, extends upwards and forw-ards thi-ough the lateral mass and communicates with the frontal sinus and the anterior ethmoidal cells. Ossification.^—The ethmoid is ossified in the cartilage of the nasal capsule by three centres : one for the perpendicular plate, and one for each lateral mass. The lateral masses are first developed, ossific granules making their appear- ance in the region of the os planum between the fourth and fifth months of foetal life, and extending into the turbinated processes. At birth, the bone consists of the two lateral masses, which are small and ill developed. During the first year after birth, the perpendicular plate and crista galli begin to ossify from a single nucleus, and are joined to the lateral masses about the beginmng of the second vear. The cribriform plate is ossified partly from the perpendicular plate and partly from the lateral masses. The formation of the ethmoidal cells does not commence imtil about the fourth or fifth year. Articulations.—The ethmoid articulates with fifteen bones: four of the cranium—the sphenoid, two sphenoidal turbinateds, and the frontal; and eleven of the face—the two nasals, two maxillse, two lachrymals, two palates, two inferior turbinateds, and the vomer. SXJPEWTJMERARY OR WORMIAN * BoNES (OSSA SUTUR.A.KUM) In addition to the constant centres of ossification of the cranium, additional ones may be found in the course of the sutiires. These form irregular, isolated bones, interposed between the cranial bones, and termed Wormian bones or ossa Iriqueira. They are most frequently fovmd in the course ot the lambdoid sutine, but are occasionally seen at the fontanelles, especially the posterior. One, the pterion ossicle, sometimes exists between the antero-inferior angle of the parietal and the greater wing of the sphenoid. They have a tendency to be more or less symmetrical on the two sides of the skull, and vary much in size, being in some cases not larger than a pin's head, and confined to the outer table, in other cases so large that one pair of these bones may form the whole ot the occipital bone above the superior curved lines, as described by Beclard and \\'ard. Their number is generally limited to two or three ; but more than a hundi-ed have been found in the skull ot an adult hydrocephalic sui)ject. In their development, structure, and mode of articulation, they resemble the other cranial bones. Congenital Fissures and Gaps An arrest in the ossifying process may give rise to deficiencies, gaps, or fissures which are of importance from a medico-legal ])oint of \'icw, as they are liable to be mis- taken for fractures. The fissures generally extend from the margins towards the centre of a bone, but the gaps may be found in the middle as well as at the edges. In course of time they may become filled with (hin laminaj of bone. In many of these ca.^es. however, the gaps must be regarded as due to absorption of lione already formed rather * Ole Worm, Professor of Anatomy at Copenhagen, 1G24-1G39, was erroneously suiJposed to have given the first detailed description of these bones.