SPLANCHNOLOGY 1174 slightly convex outwards, and 2 and 3 by a line slightly convex downwards. The fundus of the gall-bladder approaches the surface behind the anterior extremity of the ninth costal cartilage, close to the outer margin of the right Rectus muscle. It must be remembered that the liver is subject to considerable alterations in position, and the student should make himself acquainted with the different circumstances under which this occurs, as they are of importance in determining the existence of enlargement or other diseases of the organ. The position of the liver varies according to the posture of the body. In the erect position in the adult male, the edge of the liver projects al)out half an inch below the lower edge of the right costal cartilages, and its anterior border can often be felt in this situation if the abdominal wall is thin. In the supine position the liver gravitates backwards, and recedes above the lower margin of the ribs, and cannot then be detected by the finger. In the prone position it falls forward, and can then generally be felt in a patient with loose and lax abdominal walls. Its position varies also with the ascent or d&scent of the Diaphragm. In a deep insi^iration the Hver descends below the ribs ; in expiration it is raised behind them. Again, in emphysema, where the lungs are voluminous and the Diaphragm descends very low, the liver is pushed down : in some other diseases, as phthisis, where the Diaphragm is much arched, the liver rises very high up. Pressure from without, as in tight-lacing, by compressing the lower part of the chest, displaces the liver considerably ; its anterior edge frequentl}^ extending as low as the crest of the ilium ; and its convex surface is often at the same time deeply indented from the pressure of the ribs. Again, its position varies greatly according to the greater or less distension of the stomach and intestines. When the intestines are empty, the liver descends in the abdomen ; but when they are distended, it is pushed upwards. Its relations to sm-rounding organs may also be changed by the growth of tumoms, or by collections of fluid in the thoracic or abdominal cavities. Ptosis of the liver, or hepatoptosis, from abnormal laxity of its ligaments and failm-e of the support it usually receives from the subjacent viscera, is an occasional cause of various nervous and gastro-intestinal disturbances. It has been very fully described by Glenard and his pvipils. Applied Anatomy.—On account of its large size, its fixed position, and its friabihty, the liver is more frequently ruptui-ed than any of the other abdominal viscera. The ruptui-e may vary from a slight scratch to an extensive and complete laceration of its substance, dividing it into two parts. Sometimes an internal rupture, wdthout laceration of the peritoneal covering, takes place, and such injm-ies are most susceptible of repair; but small tears of the surface may also heal; when, however, the laceration is extensive, death usually takes place from haemorrhage, on account of the fact that the hepatic veins are contained in rigid canals in the liver-substance and are unable to contract, and are moreover unprovided with valves. The hver may also be torn by the end of a broken rib perforating the Diaphragm. It may be injured by stabs or other punctured wounds, and when these are inflicted through the chest-wall the pleui-al and peritoneal cavities may both be opened up, and both lung and hver wounded. In cases of wound of the hver fi-om the front, hernia of a part of this visous may take place, but generally can be easily replaced. In cases of laceration of the hver, when there is evidence that bleeding is going on, the abdomen must be opened, the laceration sought for, and the bleeding arrested. This may be done temporarily by introducing the forefinger into the foramen of \\inslow and placing the thumb on the gastro-hepatic omentum, and compressing the liepatic artery and portal vein between the two. Any bleeding points can then be seen and tied, and the margins of the laceration, if small, brought together and sutured by means of a blunt curved needle passed from one side of the wound to the other. All sutiu-es must be passed before any are tied, and this must be done %vith the greatest gentleness, as the liver substance is very friable. WTien the laceration is extensive it must be packed witli gauze, the end of which is allowed to hang out of the external wound. . , , Abscess of the liver is of not infrequent occurrence. The so-called tropical abscess is due to absorption from the intestine of the amreba of dysentery, which reaches the liver through the portal system and causes the formation of a large chronic abscess; this may open in many different ways on account of the relations of the liver t o otiier orgaiis. Ihus it has been known to burst into the lungs when the pus is coughed up, or into the stomacU when the pus is vomited ; it may burst into the colon, or duodenum ; or, by pertorat ing llie Diaphragm, it may empty itself into the pleural cavity. It often makes its way lorwards and points on the^antirior abdominal will, and finally it may burst into the pentonea or pericardial cavities. Abscesses of the liver frequently require opemng ^ must be done by an incision in the abdominal wall, in the thoracic ^ '™ region, according to the direction in which the abscess is tracking. The incision through the abdominal 4ll is to be preferred when possible. The abdomma wa is "--ed the swelling, and, unless the peritoneum is adherent, gauze is P'^'^k^^ a' round the c^^^^^^^^ liver surface and the abscess opened, and a large drainage tube inserted Hjdatid cysts are more often found in the liver than in any of the other viscera. .Tlie lea^on o IL is not far to seek. The embryo of the egg of the lo-nia echinococcus ^^mg J^^^™^^ the stomach by the disintegration of its .shell, bores its way g'^^^ "",;\Xrie^^ usually enters a blood-vessel, and is cnrried by the blood-stream to the hepatic capiUaues,