THE CHOROID PLEXUS OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLE 877 behind ; its inferior angle corresponds with the upper part of the anterior commissure. The cavum septi pellucidi or so-called fifth ventricle is generally regarded as part of the great longitudinal fissure, which has become shut "off by the union of the hemispheres in the formation of the corpus callosum above and the fornix below. Each half of the septum is therefore formed by the median wall of the hemisphere, and consists of a mesial layer of grey matter-, derived from the grey matter of the cortex, and an external layer of white substance continuous with the white matter of the cerebral hemispheres. The fifth ventricle differs from the other ventricles of the brain, inasmuch as it is not developed from the cavity of the cerebral vesicles, is not lined by ciliated epithelium, and does not communicate with the general ventricular cavity. The choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle (plexus chorioideus ven- triculi laterahs) (fig. 745) is a higldy vascular fringe-Uke process of pia mater, which ajipears as if it were contained within the ventricular cavity. The plexus, however, is not actually within the cavity, as it is everywhere covered by a layer of epithelium continuous with the epithelial Iming of the ventricle, which therefore shuts it out of the ventricular cavity. It extends from the foramen of Monro, where it is joined with the plexus of the opposite ventricle, to the extremity of the descendmg horn. The part in relation to the body of Fig. 746.—Coronal section of descending horn of lateral ventricle. (Diagrammatic.) Tail of cauda te nucleus Choroid plexus Epithelial lining of ventricle Pia mater Fimbria I' i mhrio-dentate. fissure Alveus Dentate gyrus Dentate fissure, I the ventricle forms the vascular frmged margm of a triangular process of pia I mater, named the velum interpositum, and projects from under cover of the * outer edge of the fornix. It lies upon the upper sm-face of the thalamus, from ' winch the epithehum is reflected over the plexus on to the edge of the fornix. Ihe portion in relation to the descending horn lies in the concavitv of the hippocampus major and overiaps the fimbria : from the outer edge of the latter the epithehum is reflected over the plexus on to the roof of the cornu (fig 746) i It consists of minute and highly vascular viUous processes, each witli an afferent ^ and an efferent vessel. The ceUs of the epitlieUum which covers it often contain .^yeUo^nsh fat molecules. The arteries of the plexus are: (a) the anterior icnoroidal, a branch of the internal carotid, which enters the plexus at the '^extremity of the descending horn; and (b) the posterior choroidal, one or wo smaU branches of the posterior cerebral, which pass forwards under the ^spienium. The veins of the choroid plexus unite to form a prominent vein, ■wmch courses from behind forwards to the foramen of Monro and joms with CMC vein of the corpus striatum to form the corresponding vein of Galen. When the choroid plexus is pulled away, the continuity of the epithehum V Which covers it, with that which Unes the yentricle, is severed, and a cleft-like ■Pvf*^/%P "f^'^- ™^ numed the choroidal fissure ; Uke the plexus, it ' Bxcenas trom the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending horn