THE PONS 823 Its ventral or aiilerior siirface is very prominent, markedly convex from side to side less so from above downwards. It consists of transverse fibres arched Uke a bridge across the middle Une, and gathered on either side uito a compact mass which forms the middle peduncle of the cerebeUum. It rests upon the posterior surface of the basi-sphenoid, and is limited above and below by well-defined borders. It presents, in the middle line, a furrow [sulcus basiLans) for the lodgment of the basUar artery ; this furrow is bounded on either sicle by an eminence—the pyramidal emwence—caused by the passage ot tne pvi-amidal fibres downwards through the substance of the pons. Outside tliese eminences, near the upper border of the pons, the fifth nerves make then: exit, each consisting of a smaUer, internal, motor root, and a larger, external sensory root; a vertical line, drawn on either side immediately outside the fifth nerve, may be taken as the boundary between the ventral surface of the pons and the middle peduncle of the cerebeUum. Fig. 702.—^Vertical transverse section of the pons, at its upper part. (Testut.) 1. Fourth ventricle; its ependyma in yellow. 2. Valve o£ Vicussens, with 2', its white stratum (superior medullary velum), and 2", its grey stratum (lingula). 3. Superior or Sylvian root of trigeminal. 4. Nerve-cells associated with tllis root. 5. Posterior longitudinal fasciculus. 6. Formatio reticularis. 7. Lateral sulcus. 8. Section of superior cerebellar peduncle. 9. Mesial flllet. 9'. Lateral fillet. 10,10. Transverse fibres of pons. 11,11. Pyramidal fibres. 12. Baphe. V. Trigeminal. Its dorsal or posterior surface, triangular in shape, is hidden by the cerebellum, and is bounded laterally by the superior cerebellar peduncles. It forms the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, with which it wiU be described. Structure (fig. 702).—Transverse sections of the pons show that it is composed of two parts which differ from each other in appearance and structure : thus, the ventral portion consists for the most part of fibres arranged in transverse and longitudinal bundles, together with a small amount of grey matter ; while the dorsal portion is a continuation of the reticular formation of the meduUa oblongata, and is called the tegmental portion, as most of its constituents are continued into the tegmentum of the crus cerebri. The ventral part of the pons (pars basilaris pontis) consists of—(a) super- ficial and deep transverse fibres, (b) longitudinal fibres, and (c) some small nuclei of grey matter, termed the nuclei pontis. Tlie superficial transverse fibres (fibrse pontis superficiales) constitute a rather thick layer on the ventral surface of the pons, and are collected into a large rounded bundle on either side of the middle hne. This bundle, with the addition