SPLANCHNOLOGY 1118 Tlio circuhir Jihres are coiiliauous above with tlie Inferior constrictor; their direction is transverse at the upper and lower parts of the tube, but obhque in the central part. 'J'he muscular iiljres in the ujjper part of the ccsophagus are of a red colour, and consist chielly of the striped variety ; but below, they consist for the most ))art of involuntary fibres. The areolar or mbmucous coal connects loosely the mucous and muscular coats. The mucous coal is thick, of a reddish colour above, and pale below. It is disposed in longitudinal folds, which disappear on distension of the tube. Its surface is studded wilh minute pai)ill;«, and it is covered throughout with a thick layer of stratified pavement epithelium. Beneath the mucous membrane, between it and the areolar coat, is a layer of longitudinally arranged non-stri]jed muscular fibres. This Ls the irtuscularis mucosas. At tho^conimencement of the ossophagus it is absent, or only represented by a few scattered bundles ; lower down it forms a considerable stratum. The cesophugeal glands are small compound racemose glands of the mucous type: they are lodged in the submucous tissue, and each opens upon the surface by a long excretory duct. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the oesophagus are derived from the inferior thyroid branch of the thyroid axis of the subclavian, from the descending thoracic aorta, from the gastric branch of the coeliac axis, and from the left inferior phrenic of the abdominal aorta. They have for the most part a longitudinal direction. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and from the sympathetic ; they fonn a plexus, in which are groups of ganglion-cells, between the two layers of the muscular coats, and also a second plexus in the submucous tissue. Afplied Anatomy.—The oesophagus may be obstructed by foreign bodies, and also by changes in its coats producing stricture, or by pressure on it from %vithout of new growths°or aneurysm, &c. The different forms of strictiure are: (1) the fibrous, due to cicatrisation following destruction of tissue, the result of swallowing boiling or corrosive fluids—here dilatation of the strictui-e may be carried out; and (2) maUgnant, usually epitheliomatous io its natui-e. This may be situated either at the upper end of the tube opposite the cricoid cartilage, or at its lower end at the cardiac orifice, but is most commonly found at that part of the tube where it is crossed by the left bronchus, in these cases, if the patient is losing weight from insufficient nourishment, the operation ot eastrostomymay be performed in order to avoid death from starvation ; death, however, most commonly occurs from ulceration of the growth into the mediastinum or au:-passages. In cases of strictm-e of the oesophagus it may be necessary to dilate the canal by a bougie, when it is of importance that the direction of the oesophagus and its relations to sm:rounding parts should be remembered. In cases of maUgnant disease of the oesophagus; where its tissues have become softened from infiltration o the gro\^'th the areatest care is requisite in directing the bougie thi-ough the strictured part, as a false passage may easily be made, and the instrument may pass into the mediastinum or mto one or other plem-al cavity, or even into the pericardium. In cases of obstniction of the oesophagus, and consequent symptoms of stricture, produced by an aneurysm of some part of the aorta pressing upon this tube, the passage of a bougie"could only hasten the fatal issue. , . , ^, „„a In pfssing a bou|ie the left forefinger should be introduced mto the mouth and the epiglottis felt for, carS being taken not to throw the head too far backwards. The bougie IS then to be passed beyond the finger until it touches the posterior wall of the pharynx patient is now asked to swallow? and at the moment of swallowmg the bougie is passed aentlv onwards, all violence being carefully avoided. ^ It occasionally happens that a foreign body becomes impacted in the oesophagus, which can Ser be brought upwards nor mSved downwards. When all ordinary means for its removal hive failed! excision is the only resource. This, of course, can only be performed vheH is not very L down. If the foreign body is allowed to -main, extensn^^inflam- mation and ulceration of the oesophagus may ensue. In one J^^/ ^he^^^^^^^^ ultimately penetrated the intervertebral substance, and destroj ed life by inflammation oi the membranes and substance of the cord. THE ABDOMEN The abdomen is the largest cavity in tlie body^ It is J" "^^^^^ the extreniities of the oval being directed upxvards and do^^n^^aids, ine mneTeXmitv is formed by the Diaphragm which extends as a dome mer ^HhCZX that the cavity extends high -to tlie l^ny J -f"'^? r.n tbo i-i.rlit sid(> in the nipple line, to the upper border of the nun no on ?he 1 ft side it ail. be ow th s level by about an inch. Tiie lower extremity is tmeS'bT tl e st uctures which clothe tiie inner surface of the bony i^ehis H- "■ipally tlie Levatores ani and Coccygei muscles ^^^tlier ide The e liiusclL are sometimes termed the Diaphragm fJ^JJ^/^^ticaT LTi - the wider above than below, and measures more in the vertical than