863 THE RHINENCEPHALON tlie dentate or hipiDOcampal fissure. These he separated on tlie morphological ground that tliey are well developed in animals possessing a keen sense of smell (osmatic animals), such as the dog and fox. They were thus regarded as a part of the rhinencephalon, but it is now recognised that they belong to the neopallium ; the callosal convolution is thei-efore sometimes described as a part of tlie frontal lobe and the hippocampal convolution as a jDart of the temporal lobe. The callosal convolution (gyrus cinguli) is an arch-shaped convolution, lying in close relation to the superficial surface of the corpus callosum, from which it is separated by a slit-Uke fissure, the callosal fissure. It commences below the rosti-um of the corpus callosum, curves round in front of the genu, extends along the upper surface of the body, and finally turns downM-ards behind the splenium, where it is connected by a narrow isthmus with the gyrus hippocampi It is separated from the marginal convolution by the calloso-marginal sulcus, and from the quadrate lobe by the subparietal sulcus. The hippocampal convolution (gyrus hippocampi) is bounded above by the hippocampal or dentate fissure, and below by the anterior part of tlie collateral fissure. Behind, it is continuous superiorly, through the isthmus, M-ith the callosal convolution, and inferiorly with the linguaf lobule. Running in the substance of the callosal and hippocampal convolutions, and connecting them together, is a tract of arclied fibres, named the cingulum. The anterior extremity of the hippocampal convolution is recurved in the form of a hook, named the uncus, which is separated from the apex of the temporal lobe by a shglit fissure, the incisura temporalis. Although superficially continuous with the hippocampal convolution the uncus forms morphologically a part of tiie rhinencephalon. The dentate or hippocampal fissure commences immediately behind the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, and runs forwards between the hippocampal and dentate convolutions to terminate in the uncus. It IS a complete fissure (see page 856), and gives rise to the prominence of the hippocampus major in the descending horn of the lateral ventricle. Rhinencephalon (fig. 732) The rhinencephalon comprises the olfactory lobe, the uncus, the sub- callosal, supracallosal, and dentate gyri, the septum pellucidum, the fornix, and the hippocampus major. Fig. 732.—Scheme of rhinencephalon. Gyrus supracallosus Gyrus dentatus Outer rout Xy'^ Anterior perforated space^ Uncus Band of Giacomini I In ^nJi^?^ situated on the under surface of the frontal lobe n many vertebrates it constitutes a well-marked portion of the hemisphere