THE EYE 1017 ones and to some extent unconnected with them, and have a circular course around the attachment of the iris. Tliey are sometimes called the ring muscle of Miiller, and were formerly described as the ciliary ligament. They are well developed in hypermetropic, but are rudimentary or absent m myopic eyes. The Ciliary muscle is the cMef agent ua accommodation, i.e. in adjusting the eye to the vision of near objects. When it contracts, it draws forwards the ciliary processes, relaxes the suspensory ligament of the lens, and thus allows the anterior surface of the lens to become more convex; the pupil is at the same time slightly contracted. The iris has received its name from its various colours in different individuals. It is a thin, cu'cular, contractile disc, suspended in the aqueous humour between the cornea and lens, and perforated a little to the nasal side of its centre by a circular aperture, the pupil (pupiUa), for the transmission of light. By its periphery it is continuous with the ciliary body, and is also connected with the posterior elastic lamina of the cornea by means of the pectinate ligament ; Fig. 837.—Section of the eye, showing the relations of the cornea, sclera, and. iris, together with the Ciliary muscle and the spaces of Fontana near the angle of the anterior chamber. (Waldeyer.) its surfaces are flattened, and look forwards and backwards, the anterior towards the cornea, the posterior towards the cihary processes and lens. The iris divides the space between the front of the lens and the back of the cornea into two chambers—anterior and posterior. The anterior chamber (camera oculi anterior) is bounded in front by the posterior surface of the cornea ; behind by the front of the iris and the central part of the lens. The posterior chamber (camera oculi posterior) is a narrow cliink between the peripheral part of the Ms, the suspensory ligament of the lens and the ciliary processes. In the adult the two chambers communicate tlurough the pupil, but in the foetus of the seventh month, when the pupil is closed by tlie membrana pupillaris, the two chambers are quite separate. Structure.—The iris is composed of the following structures : 1. In front is a layer of flattened endothelial cells placed on a delicate hyaline basement-membrane. This layer is continuous with the epithelial layer covering the membrane of Descemet, and in men with dark-colotired iiides the cells contain pigment-granules.