707 EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY artery; muscular branches, some of which are distributed to the abdominal muscles and peritoneum, anastomosing with the lumbar and circumflex. iliac arteries; branches which perforate the tendon of the External oblique, and supply the integument, anastomosing with branches of the superficial epigastric. Peculiarities.—The origin of the deei^ epigastric may take place from any part of the external iliac between Poupart's ligament and a point two inclios and a half above it; or it may arise below this ligament, from the femoral. It frequently arises from the external iliac, by a common trunk with the obturator. Sometimes it arises from the obturator, the latter vessel being furnished by the internal iliac, or it may be formed of two branches, one derived from the external iliac, the other from the internal iliac. Applied Anatomy.—Tlie deep epigastric arterj' follows a line drawn from the middle of Poupart's Mgament towards the nmbihcus ; but shortly after this line crosses the linea semilunaris, the dhection changes, and the course of the vessel is upwards along the line of junction of the inner with the middle third of the Rectus abdominis. It has important surgical relations, and is one of the principal means, through its anastomosis with the internal mammary, of establishing the coUateral circulation after ligature of either the common or external ihac arteries. It lies close to the internal abdominal ring, and is therefore internal to an obUque inguinal hernia, but external to a direct inguinal licrnia, as these emerge from the abdomen. It forms the outer boundary of Hesselbach's triangle, and is in close relationship with the spermatic cord, which lies in front of it in the mguinal canal, separated only by the transversalis fascia. The vas deferens hooks round its outer side. The deep circumflex iliac artery (a. circumflexa ilium profunda) arises from the outer side of the external iliac nearly opposite the deep epigastric artery. It ascends obliquely outwards behind Poupart's ligament, contained in a fibrous sheath formed by the junction of the transversalis and ihac fascite, to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, where it anastomoses with the ascending branch of the external circumflex ai^tery. It then pierces the transversalis fascia and passes along the inner surface of the crest of the ilium to about its middle, where it perforates the Transversalis, and runs backwards between that muscle and the Internal oblique, to anastomose with the ilio-lumbar and gluteal arteries. Opposite the anterior superior spine of the ilium it gives off a large branch, which ascends between the Internal oblique and Transversalis muscles, supplying them, and anastomosing with the lumbar and epigastric arteries. ARTERIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The artery which supplies the greater part of the lower extremity is the direct continuation of the external iliac. It continues as a single trunk from Poupart's ligament to the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, where it divides into two branches, the anterior and 'posterior tibial. The upper part of the main trunk is named the femoral, the lower part the popliteal. Femobai, Aeteey (figs. 617, 618) The ^ femoral artery (a. femoralis) commences immediately behind Poupart's hgament, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, and passes down the front and inner side of the thigh. It terminates at the junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh where it passes through an opening in the Adductor magnus to become the popliteal artery. The vessel, at the upper part of the thigh, lies m front of the hip-joint, on a line with the innermost part of the head of the femur ; in the lower part of its course it lies to the inner side of the shaft, and between these two parts, where it crosses the angle between the head and shaft, the vessel is some distance from the bone. The first inch and a half of the vessel is enclosed, together with the femoral vein, in a fibrous sheath— the femoral sheath. In the upper third of the thigh the femoral artery is contained in a, triangular space, called Scarpa's triangle, and in the middle thu'd of the thigh, in an aponeurotic canal, named Hunter's canal. The femoral sheath (fig. 614) is formed by a prolongation downwards, behmd Poupart's ligament, of the fascia which line the abdomen, the fascia transversalis being contmued down in front of the femoral vessels and the z z 2