ICSTEE-JOINT 431 FiQ. 468.—Right knee-joint. Anterior view. ligaments. Behind, the capsular ligament consists of vertical fibres which arise from tiie condyles and intercondyloid notcli of the femur, and are augmented by fibres derived from the tendon of the Semimembranosus, to form the jjosterior ligament. On the outer side of the joint, a jirolongation from the ilio-tibial band fills in the interval between tlie posterior and the external lateral ligaments, and partly covers the latter. On the inner side, expansions from the Sartorius and Semimembranosus pass ujawards to the internal lateral ligament and strengthen the capsule. Tlie Anterior Ligament, or Ligamentum Patellse (fig. 468), is the central portion of the common tendon of the Extensor muscles of tlie thigh, which is continued from the pateUa to the tubercle of the tibia, supj^lying the place of an anterior ligament. It is a strong, flat, ligamentous band, about three inches in length, attached, above, to the apex and adjoining margins of the patella and the rough depression on its posterior surface ; below, to the tubercle of the tibia; its superficial fibres are continuous over the front of the patella with those of the tendon of the Quadri- ceps extensor. The lateral portions of tlie tendon of the Extensor muscles pass down on either side of the patella, to be inserted into the upper extremity of the tibia on either side of the tubercle; these portions merge into the capsular ligament, as stated above, forming the lateral patellar ligaments. The posterior suiface of the ligamentum patellae is separated from the synovial membrane of the joint by a large pad {infrapatellar) of fat, and from the tibia by a synovial bursa. The Posterior Ligament (lig. posti- cum Winslowii) (fig. 469) is a broad, flat, fibrous band, formed of fasciculi sepa- rated from one another by apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves. It is attached above to the upper margin of the intercondyloid notch and posterior surface of the femur close to the articular margins of the condyles, and below to the posterior margm of the head of the tibia. Superficial to the main part of the liga- ment is a strong fasciculus, derived from the tendon of the Semimembranosus and passing from the back part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia obliquely upwards and outwards to the back part of the outer condyle of the femur, where it becomes lost in the general ligament.* The posterior ligament forms part of the floor of tlie popliteal space, and the popliteal artery rests upon it. The Internal Lateral Ligament (lig. collaterale tibiale) is a broad Hat, membranous band, situated nearer to the back than to the front of the M attached, above, to the inner tuberositv of the femur immcdiatelv Delow the Adductor tubercle ; below, to the inner tuberosity and inner surface o± the shaft of the tibia. The fibres of the posterior part of the ligament are short, and are inserted into the inner part of the tuberosity of tlie tibia aoove the groove for the Semimembranosus muscle. Thev incline back- Wi ""u .^ descend. The anterior part of the ligament is a flattened Dana, about four inches in length, which inclines forwards as it descends. J-t is inserted into the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia about an inch distUtirtn ?^ tf.'ncd the ligamentum posticum Winslowii, in contra- aistinction to the posterior ligament, which is then regarded as part of the capsular ligament