FIBULA 347 The Fibula The Fibula (figs. 396 and 398) is placed on the outer side of the tibia, with which it is connected above and below. It is the smaller of the two bones, and, in proportion to its length, the most slender of all the long bones. Its upper extremity is small, placed towards the back of the head of the tibia, below the level of the knee-joint, and excluded from the formation of this joint; the lower extremity inclines a little forwards, so as to be on a ^jlane anterior to that of the upper end; it projects below the tibia, and forms the outer part of the ankle. The bone presents for examination a shaft and two extremities. The upper extremity or head (capitulum fibulae) is of an irregular quadrate form, presenting above a flattened articular facet (facies articularis capituli fibulse), directed upwards, forwards and inwards, for articulation with a corresponding facet on the external tuberosity of the tibia. On the outer side is a thick and rough prominence, continued behind into a pointed eminence, the styloid process (apex capituli fibulse), which projects upwards from the posterior part of the head. The prominence, at its upper and outer part, gives attachment to the tendon of the Biceps, and to the long external lateral ligament of the knee, the ligament dividing the tendon into two parts. The summit of the styloid process gives attachment to the short external lateral ligament. The remaining part of the circumference of the head is rough, for the attaclunent of muscles and ligaments. It presents in front a tubercle for the origin of the upper and anterior fibres of the Peroneus longus, and a surface for the attachment of the anterior superior tibio-fibular ligament; and behind, another tubercle, for the attachment of the posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament and the origin of the upper fibres of the Soleus. The shaft (corpus fibulae) presents four borders—the antero-external, the antero-internal, the postero-external, and the postero-intemal; and four surfaces—anterior, posterior, internal, and external. The antero-external hord^er begins above in front of the head, runs verti- eaUy downwards to a little below the middle of the bone, and then curving somewhat outwards, bifurcates so as to embrace a triangular subcutaneous surface immediately above the outer surface of the external malleolus. This border gives attachment to. an intermuscular septum, which separates the Extensor muscles on the anterior surface of the leg from the Peronei longus et brevis on the outer surface. The antero-internal border, or interosseous ridge (crista interossea) is situated close to the inner side of the preceding, and runs nearly parallel with it m the upper third of its extent, but diverges from it so as to include a broader space in the lower two-thirds. It begins above just beneath the head of the bone (sometimes it is quite indistinct for about an inch below the head), and ends at the apex of a rough triangular surface immediately above the articular facet of the external malleolus. It serves for the attachment of the inter- osseous membrane, which separates the Extensor muscles in front from the Flexor muscles behind. The postero-external border is promment; it begins above at the base of the styloid process, and ends below hi the posterior border of the outer malleolus. It IS directed outwards above, backwards in the middle of its course, back- ^t-l * ^^^^^^ inwards below, and gives attachment to an aponeurosis which separates the Peronei on the outer surface of the shaft from the Flexor muscles on the posterior surface. The postero-intemal border, sometimes called the oblique line, begins above at the mner side of the head, and ends by becommg continuous with the antero-internal border or interosseous ridge at the lower fourth of the bone, it is well marked and prominent at the upper and middle parts of the bone. gives attachment to an aponeurosis which separates the Tibialis posticus the Soleus and Flexor longus hallucis. The anterior, .smfaao. is the interval between the antero-external and antero-mternal borders. It is extremely narrow and flat in the upper thnd f fvf•' grooved longitudinally in its lower thhd ; it serves lor the origin of three muscles, the Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor ■,E£2Erius haUucis. and Peroneus tertius.^