CERVICAL PLEXUS 953 The phrenic (n. plirenicus), or internal respiratory nerve of Bell, arises chiefly from the fourth cervical nerve, but receives a filament from the tliird and a brancli from tlie fifth ; the fibres from tlie fifth nerve occasionally- come through tlie nerve to the Subclavius. It descends to the root of the neck, running obliquely across the front of the Scalenus anticus, and beneath the Sterno-mastoid, the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, and the transversalis colli and suprascapular vessels. It next passes over the first part of the sub- clavian artery, between it and the subclavian vein, and, as it enters the chest, crosses the internal mammary arteiy near its origin. Within tlie chest, it descends nearly vertically in front of the root of the lung, and then between the pericardium and tlie mediastinal portion of tlie j)leura, to the Diaphragm, wliere it divides into branches, which separately pierce that muscle, and are distributed to its under surface. In the tliorax it is accompanied by a brancli of the internal mammary artery, tlie arteria comes nervi plirenici. The two phrenic nerves dift'er in their length, and also in their relations at tlie upper part of the thorax. The right nerve is situated more deejDly, and is shorter and more vertical in direction than the left; it lies on the outer side of the right innominate vein and superior vena cava. The left nerve is rather longer than the right, from the inclination of the heart to the left side, and from the Diaphragm being lower on this than on the opposite side. At the root of the neck it is crossed by the thoracic duct; in the superior mediastinum it is placed between the left common carotid and left subclavian arteries, and crosses in front of the vagus on the left side of the arch of the aorta. Each nerve supplies filaments to the pericardium and pleura, and at the root of the neck is joined by a filament from the sympathetic, and, occasionally, by one from the ansa liypoglossi. Branches have been described as passing to the peritoneum. From the right nerve, one or two filaments pass to join in a small ganglion with phrenic branches of the solar jjlexus ; and branches from this ganglion are distributed to the hepatic plexus, the suprarenal capsule, and inferior vena cava. From the left nerve, filaments pass to join the phrenic plexus of the sympathetic, but without any ganglionic enlargement. Deep Beanches of the Cervical Plexus. External Series Communicating branches.—The deep branches of the external series of the cervical plexus communicate with the spinal accessory nerve, in the substance of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, in the posterior triangle, and beneath the Trapezius. Muscular branches are distributed to tlie Sterno-mastoid, Trapezius, Levator anguli scapulae, and Scalenus medius. The branch for the Sterno-mastoid is derived from the second cervical; the Trapezius and Levator anguli scapulae receive branches from the third and fourth. The Scalenus medius is supplied sometimes by the thii-d, sometimes by the fourth, and occasionally by both nerves. Applied Anatomy.—Pains referred to tlie terminal branches of the cervical plexus are not uncommon in caries of the cervical spine, where pain may be felt radiating over the occiput, if the disease is situated high up in the spine. The Brachial Plexus (Plexus Brachialis) The brachial plexus (fig. 796) is formed by the union of the anterior primary divisions of the lower four cervical nerves and the greater jjart of the anterior primary division of the first thoracic nerve; a fasciculus from the fourth cervical nerve usually contributes and frequently one from the second thoracic nerve. It extends from the lower part of the side of the neck to the axilla. The nerves which form the plexus are nearly equal in size, but their mode of communication is subject to some variation, so that no one plan can be given as applying