258 OSTEOLOGY which supports it, the neck. The condyle presents an articular sui-face which articulates with the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone ; it is convex from before backwards, and from side to side, and extends farther on the posterior than on tlie anterior aspect. Its long axis is directed inwards and shghtly backwards, and if prolonged to the middle line will meet that of the opposite condyle near the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. At the outer extremity of the condyle is a small tubercle for the attachment of the external lateral liga- ment of the temporo-mandibular joint. The neck (collum mandibulae) is flattened from before backwards, and strengthened by ridges which descend from the fore part and sides of the condjde. Its posterior surface is convex ; its anterior presents a depression for the attachment of the External pterygoid muscle. Fig. 331.—Scheme showing ossification of the mandible, inner side (Low). The mem- brane bone is coloui-ed red. The greater jmrt of Meckel's cartilage is coloured blue. The uptm-ned, stippled portion near the symphysis represents the part of Meckel's cartilage which is surrounded and invaded by the membrane bone. The accessory nuclei of cartilage in the condyle, coronoid process, alveolar border and body are indicated by stippled areas. Meckel's cartilage The sigmoid notch, separating the two processes, is a deep semilunar depression, and is crossed by the masseteric vessels and nerve. Ossification.—The mandible is ossified in the fibrous membrane covering the outer surfaces of Meckel's cartilages. These cartilages form the cartilaginous bar of the mandibular arch (see p. 108), and are two in number, a right and a left. Their proximal or cranial ends are connected with the periotic capsules, and their distal extremities are joined to one another at the symphysis by mesodermal tissue. Thev can be seen on the inner aspect of the mandible of a five-months foetus (fig. 331), where they run forwards immediately below the condyles and then, bending downwards, he in a groove near the lower border of the bone ; in front of the canine tooth they inchne upwards and inwards to the symphysis. From the proximal end of each cartilage the malleus and incus, two of the bones of the middle ear, are developed ; the next Fig. 332.—Scheme showing ossification of mandible from the outer side (Low). Mem- brane bone coloured red. Accessory nuclei of cartilage stippled. succeeding portion, as far as the hngula, is replaced by fibrous tissue, which persists to form the spheno- mandibular hgameut. Between the lingula and the canine tooth the cartilage disappears, whilst the portion of it which hes below and behind the incisor teeth becomes ossified and incorporated with this part of the mandible. Ossification takes place in the mem- brane covering the outer surface of Meckel's cartilage (fig. 332), and each half of the bone is formed from a single centre which appears, near the mental foramen, about the sixth week of foetal life—i.e. earher than in any other bone except the clavicle. By the tenth week the portion of Meckel's cartilage which hes below and behind the incisor teeth is surroimded and invaded by the membrane-bone. Somewhat later, accessory nuclei of cartilage make then' appearance—viz. a wedge-shaped nucleus in the condyle, a small one in the coronoid process, and smaller ones in the front part of both alveolar walls and along the front of the lower border of the bone. These accessory nuclei possess no separate ossific centres, but ossification extends into them from the adjacent membrane-bone and they undergo absorption. The inner alveolar border, usua ly described as arising from a separate ossific centre (splemal centre), is formed in tUe human mandible by an ingrowth from the main mass of the bone. At birtli tlie