DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL 161 flexure of the tail-end of the embryo, the body-stalk, with its contained allantoic tube is carried forwards to the ventral aspect of the body, and consequently a Fig. 216.—Diagrams to ilhistrate the develoiDment of the great omentum and transverse mesocolon. Diaphragm Liver Small omentum. /Inrsa omenlalis. Stomacli - P<mcreas[ Great omentum-^. .'Vene viesocoloti— Transverse colon— Small intestine j Afesentery I bitodenum JJitiphrai/m /Acer _ Small omentum Lesser sae of peritoneum . _ Stomach ~- Obliterated part of mesogastrlum Duodenum Transverse colon —' Mesentertf Small intestine Fro. 217.—Final disposi- tion of the intestines and their vascular i-elations. (Jonnesco.) bend is formed at the junction of the hind-gut and allantois. This bend becomes dilated into a pouch, which constitutes the entodermal cloaca ; into its dorsal part the hind-gut opens, and from its ventral part the allantois passes forwards. At a later stage the Wolffian and Miillerian ducts open into its ventral portion. The cloaca is, for a time, shut off from the exterior by a membrane, the cloacal membrane, formed by the apposition of the ectoderm and entoderm, and reaching, at first, as far forwards as the future uni- biUcus. Behind the umbilicus, however, the mesoderm subsequently extends inwards to form the lower part of the abdominal wall and symphysis pubis. By the growth of the surrounding tissues the cloacal membrane comes to lie at the bottom of a depression, which is fined by ectoderm and named the ectodermal cloaca (fig. 218). The entodermal cloaca is divided into a dorsal and a ventral part by means of a partition consisting of two lateral mesodermal folds which grow inwards and unite with each other in the middle fine. The dorsal part forms the rectum, and the anterior part the urogenital sinus and bladder. By the rupture of the cloacal membrane the entodermal cloaca opens on the exterior, thus giving rise to a condition which exists permanently in the reptile, bird, and monotreme. Into this cloacal channel in these animals the urine, the fseces, and the products of the genital organs are discharged. The communication of the rectum with the cloaca is obhterated by the inward growth of two eminences, which make their appearance one on either side of the cloaca. These join in the middle fine to form the perineal septum, and also fuse with the hinder edge of the septum which separates the urogenital sinus and bladder from the rectum. The anal canal is not developed from the cloacal open- ing of the hind-gut, but is formed by an in- vagination of the ectoderm behind the perineal septum. This invagination is termed the proctodceum (fig. 223), and it meets with the ventral aspect of the hind-gut and forms with it the anal membrane. By the absorption of this membrane the anal canal becomes continuous with M ^.Aorta. //.Hepaticartery. M,Col. Branches oJ superior mesenteric artery, m, m\ Brandies of in- ferior mesenteric artery. S. Splenic artery.