DEVELOPMENT OF THE EYE 129 the future aperture of the pupil. The invagination is not limited to the outer wall of the bulb, but involves also its postero-inferior surface and extends in the form of a groove for some distance along the optic stalk, so that, for a time, a gap or fissure, the choroidal Jissure, exists in the lower part of the cup (fig. 165). i'hrough the groove and fissure the mesoderm extends into the optic stalk and cup, and in this mesoderm a blood-vessel is developed ; when the groove and fissure are closed this vessel forms the central artery of the retina. Some- FiG. 163.—Transverse section of head of chick embryo of forty-eight hours' incubation. (From Duval's ' Atlas d'Embryologie.') times the choroidal fissure remains patent, giving rise to the condition known as coloboma. The retina is developed from the optic cup. The outer stratum of the cup persists as a single layer of cells which assume a columnar shape, acquire pigment, and form the pigmented layer of the retina. The cells of the inner stratum proliferate and form a layer of considerable thickness from which the nervous elements and the sustentacular fibres of the retina, together with a por- tion of the vitreous body, are developed. In that portion of the cup which overlaps the lens the inner stratum is not differentiated into ner- vous elements, but forms a layer of columnar cells which is apphed to the pigmented layer, and these two strata form the pars ciliaris and pars iridica retince. Fig. 164.—Transverse section of head of chick embryo of fifty-two hours' incubation. (From Duval's ' Atlas d'Embryologie.') Cavity of fore-brain Pigmented layer of retina Ectodei-m Lens Nervous layer of retina Optic stalk The cells of the inner or retinal layer of the optic cup be- come differentiated into spon- gioblasts and germinal cells, and the latter by their sub- cUvisions give rise to neuro- blasts. As in the spinal cord, the spongioblasts ramify to form a myelospongium, from which the sustentacular fibres of Miiller, the outer and inner limiting membranes, together with the ground-work of the molecular layers of the retina are formed. The neuroblasts become arranged to form the ganglionic and nuclear layers. Cameron,* after careful study of the neuroblasts in the retina, spinal cord, and brau), maintains that they consist ° V u °"^^' ^'^^ possess no cytoplasmic investment; the ' clear protoplasm, which has been described as surrounding them during mitotic division, being merely the 1905 ^^'^^"P"^®"*^ °* Retina in Amphibia, Journal of Anatmiy and Physiology, vol. xxxix.,