TEMPORAL BONES 225 The internal surface of the squamous portion (fig. 294) is concave; it presents depressions corresponding to tlie convolutions of the temporal lobe of the brain, and grooves for the branches of the middle meningeal artery. The superior border is tliin, and bevelled at the expense of the internal table, so as to overlap the low er border of the parietal bone, forming with it the squamous suture. The antero-inferior harder is thick, serrated, and bevelled at the expense of the inner table above and of the outer below, for articulation with the greater wing of the sphenoid. Posteriorly, the superior border forms an angle [incisura parietnlis) with the mastoid portion of tlie bone. The petro-mastoid portion consists of (a) the mastoid process, a prominent, nipple-like mass behind the external auditory meatus ; and ih) the petrous portion, which is pja-amidal in shape, and projects inwards and forwards to form part of the floor of the skull. Fig. 294.—^Left temporal bone. Inner surface. Aqiieeductus cochleee Meatus acusticus interims ( The mastoid portion (pars mastoidea) forms the posterior part of the bone. Its outer surface (fig. 293) is rough, and gives attachment to the Occipito- trontalis and Retrahens auriculam. It is perforated by numerous foramma ; one of these, of large size, situated near the posterior border, is termed the loramen mastoideum ; it transmits a vein to the lateral sinus and a small branch ot the occipital artery to the dura mater. The position and size of this foramen are very variable ; it is not always present; sometimes it is situated in the occipital bone, or in the suture between the temporal and the occipital. The mastoid portion is continued below iato a conical projection, the mastoid process (processus raastoideus), the size and form of which vary somewhat; it is larger m the male than in the female. This process serves for the attachment of the bterno-mastoid, Splenius capitis, and Trachelo-mastoid. On the inner side ot tlie process is a deep groove, the digastric fossa (incisura mastoidea), for tlie attachment of the Digastric ; internal to this is a shallow furrow, the occipital groove, which lodges the occipital artery.