CARPUS 315 side is grooved for the passage of the Flexor tendons into the palm of the hand. It is one of the four eminences on the front of the carpus to which tlie anterior annular ligament of the wist is attached ; tlie others being the pisiform internally, the oblique ridge of the trapezium and the tuberosity of the scaphoid externally. The internal surface articulates with the cuneiform by an oblong Fig. 371.—The left unciform. For semilunar For oth metacarpal Unciform process For 5th metacarpal facet, cut oblique]}' fi-om above, dowjiwards and inwards. The external surface articulates -with the os magnum by its upper and posterior part, the remaining jrortion being rough, for the attachment of ligaments. Articulations.—The unciform articulates with five bones : the semilunar above, the fourth and fifth metacarpals below, the cuneiform internally, the os magnum externally. THE METACAKPUS The Metacarpus consists of five cylindrical bones which are numbered from without in\A-ards (ossa metacarpalia I-V); each consists of a shaft and two extremities. Common Chaeactees op the Metacabpal Bones The shaft (corpus) is prismoid in form, and cui'ved, so as to be convex in the longitudinal direction behind, concave in front. It presents three surfaces : two lateral and one dorsal. The lateral surfaces are concave, for the attach- ment of the Interosseous rnuscl es, and separated from one another by a prominent anterior ridge. The dorsal surface presents in its distal two-thirds a smooth, triangular, flattened area which is covered, in the recent state, by the tendons of the Extensor muscles. This surface is bounded by two lines, which commence in small tubercles situated on either side of the digital extremity, and, running upwards, converge to meet some distance behind the centre of the bone and form a ridge which runs along the rest of the dorsal surface to the carpal extremity. This ridge separates two lateral sloping surfaces tor the attachment of the Dorsal interossei.* To the tubercles on the digital J^.^^emities are attached the lateral ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal The carpal extremity or base (basis) is of a cuboidal form, and broader behmd than m front: it articulates above with the carpus, and on either side with the adjoming metacarpal bones; its dorsal and palmar surfaces are rough, for thp attachment ot ligaments. The digital extremity or head (capitulum) presents an oblong surface markedly convex from before backwards, less so from side to side, and flat- tened laterally ; it articulates with the proximal phalanx. It is broader, and extends farther forwards, on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect, and is longer in the antero-posterior than in the transverse diameter. On either side of the head is a tubercle for the attachment of the lateral ligament of the metacarpo- phalangeal joint. The dorsal surface, broad and flat, supports the Extensor tendons ; the palmar surface is grooved in the middle line for the passage ot the Flexor tendons, and marked on either side by an articular eminence continuous with the terminal articular surface. .v,, r/J^^ ^^°P'°& nietacarpal bones may be at once distinguished from the metatarsal bones. " o ^