THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES 993 a few filaments from the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and joins the right half of the deep cardiac plexus. In the neck, it communicates with the superior cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. On the left side, the middle cardiac nerve enters the cliest between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, and joins the left lialf of the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cervical ganglion (ganglion cervicale inferius) is situated between the base of the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, on the inner side of the superior intercostal artery. Its form is irregular ; it is larger in size than the preceding, and is frequently joined with the first thoracic ganglion. It is probably formed by tlie coalescence of two ganglia which correspond to the last two cervical nerves. It is connected to the middle cervical ganglion by two or more cords, one of which forms a loop around tl\e subclavian artery and supplies offsets to it. This loop is named the ansa Vieussenii. Tlie ganglion is joined to the seventh and eightli cervical nerves by grey rami communicantes. It gives off the inferior cardiac nerve, and offsets to blood-vessels. The inferior cardiac nerve (n. cardiacus inferior) arises from the inferior cervical or first thoracic ganglion. It passes down behind the subclavian artery and along the front of the trachea, to join the deep cardiac plexus. It communicates freely behind the subclavian artery with the recurrent laryngeal and middle cardiac nerves. The offsets to blood-vessels accompany the vertebral arteiy, and form a plexus around it ; this plexus supplies filaments to the vessel, and is continued up the vertebral and basilar to the cerebral and cerebellar arteries. Thoracic Portion of the Gangliatbd Cord (figs. 816, 818) The thoracic portion of the gangliated cord (pars thoracaUs s. sympathici) consists of a Series of ganglia, which usually correspond m number to that of the vertebrfe ; but, from the occasional coalescence of two, their number is uncertain. The ganglia (ganglia thoracalia) are placed on either side of tlie vertebral coluima, resting against the heads of the ribs, and covered by the pleura costalis ; the last two, however, are more anterior than the rest, being placed on the sides of the bodies of the eleventh and twelfth thoracic vertebra. The ganglia are small in size, and of a greyish colour. The first, larger than the others, is of an elongated form, and frequently blended with the last cervical. They are connected together by the mtervenmg portions of the cord. Two rami communicantes, one white and the other gi'ey, connect each ganglion with its con-esponding spinal nerve. The branches from the xipper five ganglia are very small; they supply fila- ments to the tlioracic aorta and its branches, and to the bodies of the vertebrte and their ligaments. Branches from the second, thud, and fourth ganglia enter the posterior pulmonary plexus. The branches from the lower seven ganglia are large, and white in colour ; they distribute filaments to the aorta, and unite to form the three splanchnic nerves. These are named the great, the lesser, and tlie least splanchnic. The great splanchnic nerve (n. splanclinicus major) is white in colour, firm in texture, and is formed by branches from the fifth to the ninth or tenth thoracic ganglia ; but the fibres in the higher roots may be traced upwards m the sympatlietic cord as far as the first or second thoracic ganglion. These roots unite to form a cord of considerable size. It descends obhquely inwards in front of the bodies of the vertebrae along the posterior mediastinum, perforates the crus of the Diaphragm, and terminates in the semilunar ganglion of the solar plexus, distributing filaments to the renal and suprarenal plexuses. A ganglion (the ganglion splanchnicum) exists on this nerve opposite the eleventh or twelfth thoracic vertebra. The lesser splanchnic nerve (n. splanchnicus minor) is formed by filaments from the ninth and tenth, and sometimes the eleventh ganglia, and from the cord between them. It pierces the Diaphragm with the preceding nerve and joins tlie aortico-renal ganglion of the solar plexus. It communicates iA the ciiest with the great splanchnic nerve, and ends m the solar plexus. 3s