985 SACRAL PLEXUS The musculo-cutaneous (n. peronfeus superficialis) (fig. 808) supplies the muscles on the fibular side of the leg, and the integument over the greater part of the dorsum of the foot. It passes forwards between the Peronei and the Extensor longus digitorum, pierces the deep fascia at the lower thu-d ot the leg, on its front and outer side, and divides into two branches. This nerve, in its'eourse between the muscles, gives off muscular branches to the Peronei longus and brevis, and cutaneous "filaments to the integument of the lower part of the leg. • x <. * 4.1 The internal branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve passes in tront ot tne ankle-joint, and divides into two branches, one of which supplies the inner side of the great toe, tlie other, the adjacent sides of the second and third toes. It also supplies the integument of the inner ankle and inner side of the foot, communicating with the internal saphenous nerve, and joining with the anterior tibial nerve, between the great and second toes. The external branch, the smaller, passes along the outer side of the dorsum of the foot, and divides into two branches, the inner being distributed to the contiguous sides of the third and fourth toes, the outer to the opposed sides of tlie fourth and fifth toes. It also suppb'es the integument of the outer ankle and outer side of the foot, communicating vnth. the short saphenous nerve. The branches of tlie musculo-cutaneous nerve supply all the toes excepting the outer side of the little toe, and the adjoining sides of the great and second toes, the former being supplied by the external saphenous, and the latter by the interna] branch of the anterior tibial. It frequently happens, however, that some of the outer branches of the musculo-cutaneous are absent, their places being tlien taken by branches of the external saphenous nerve. PuDENDAii Plexus (Plexus Pudendus) The pudendal plexus (fig. 809) is not sharply marked off from the sacral plexus, and as a consequence some of the branches which sprmg from it may arise in conjunction M-ith those of the sacral plexus. It lies on the posterior wall of the pelvis, and is usually formed by branches from the anterior primary divisions of the second and third sacral nerves, the whole of the anterior primary divisions of tlie fourtli and fifth sacral nerves and the coccygeal nerve. It gives off the following .branches : Perforating cutaneous 2, 3 S. Pudic 2, 3, 4 S. Visceral 3,4S. Muscular 4, S. Ano-coccygeal 4, 5, S. and Cocc. The perforating cutaneous usually arises from the posterior surface of the second and third sacral nerves. It pierces the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and winding round the inferior border of the Gluteus maximus supplies the skin covering the inner and lower parts of that muscle. The perforating cutaneous nerve may arise from the pudic or it may be absent: in the latter case its place may be taken by a branch from the small sciatic nerve or by a branch from the third and fourth, or fourth and fifth, sacral nerves. The pudic (n. pudendus) derives its fibres from the ventral branches of the second, third, and fourth sacral no;- It leaves tlie pelvis, below the Pyriformis, through tiie great r,acin-s(:iaiii foramen. It then crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters flie pelv'•: through the small sacro-sciatie foramen. It accompanies the pudic vessels upwards and forwards along the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, being contained in a slieatli of the obturator fascia, termed Alcock^s canal, and divides into two terminal branches, viz. the perineal nerve, and the dorsal nerve of the penis or clitoris. Before its division it gives off the inferior liasmorrhoidal nerve. The inferior hcemorrhoidal nerve is occasionally derived separately from the sacral plexus. It passes across the ischio-rectal fossa, with its accompanying vessels, towards the lower end of the rectum, and is distributed to tlie Sphincter ani externus and to the integument round the anus. Branches of this nerve