257 MANDIBLE mvlo-liyoid vessels and nerve. Beliind this groove is a rough surface, for the insertion of the Internal pterygoid. The inferior dental canal (canalis inandibulfe) runs obliquely downwards and forwards in the substance of the ramus, and then horizontally forwards in the body, where it is placed under the alveoK, and communicates with them by small openings. On arriving at the incisor teeth, it turns bacli to communicate with the mental foramen, giving off two small canals, which run forward to be lost in the cancellous tissue beneath the incisor teeth. The canal in the posterior two-thirds of the bone is situated nearer the internal surface of the mandible ; and in the anterior third, nearer its external surface. Its walls are composed of compact tissue at either extremity, and of cancellous in the centre. It contains the inferior dental vessels and nerve, from wliich branches are distributed to the teeth through small apertures at the bases of the alveoli. The lower border of the riimus is thick, straight, and continuous with the inferior border of the body of the bone. At its junction Math the posterior border is the angle (angulus mandibulae), which may be either inverted or everted, and is marked by rough, obhque ridges \on each side, for the attachment of the Masseter externally, and the Internal pterygoid internally; the stylo-mandibular Fig. 330.—^Mandible. Inner surface. Side view. Articulation with temporal BODY ligament is attached to the angle between these muscles. The anterior border is thin above, thicker below, and continuous with the external oblique line. The posterior border is thick, smooth, rounded, and covered by the parotid gland. The upper border is thin, and presents two processes, separated by a deep concavity, the sigmoid notch. Of these processes, tlie anterior is tlie coronoid, tlie posterior the condylar. The coronoid process (processus coronoideus) is a thin, triangular eminence, which varies in shape and size. Its anterior border is convex and is continuous below with the anterior border of the ramus; its posterior border is concave and forms the anterior boundary of the sigmoid notch. Its external surface is smooth, and affords insertion to the Temporal and Masseter muscles. Its internal surface gives insertion to the Temporal muscle, and presents a ridge which begins near the apex of the process and runs downwards and forwards to the inner side of the last molar tooth. Between this ridge and the anterior border is a grooved triangular area, the upper part of which gives attachment to the Temporal, the lower part to some fibres of the Buccmator. The condylar process (processus condyloideus) is thicker than the coronoid, and consists of two portions : the condyle, and the constricted portion s