OSTEOLOGY 204 273.—Posterior smiace of sternum. Stebno-hyoid H-For 1st jcostal ' cartilage then rapidly narrows to its lower extremity. Its average length in the adult IS about seven inclies, and is rather greater in the male than in the female. Tlio manubrium (manubrium sterni) is of a somewliat quadrangular form, broad and tliick above, narrow below at its junction with the gladiolus. Its anterior surface, convex from side to side, concave from above do\vn\\ards. is smooth, and affords attachment on either side to the sternal origins of the PectoraUs major and Sterno-inastoid muscles. In well-marked bones tlu- ridges limiting the attachments of these muscles are very distinct. Its posterior surface, concave and smooth, affords attachment on eitiier side to the Sterno- hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. The superior border is the thickest and presents at its centre the presternal notch (incisura jugularis); on either side of the notcli is an oval articular surface, directed upwards, backwards, and outwards, for articulation with the sternal end of the clavicle. The inferior border, oval and rough, is covered in a recent state with a thin layer of cartilage, for articulation with the gladiolus. The lateral borders are each marked above by a depression for the first costal cartilage, and Fig. 273.—Posterior smiace below by a small facet, which, Avith a similar facet on the upper angle of the gladiolus forms a notch for the reception of the costal cartilage of the second rib. These articular surfaces are separated by a narrow, curved edge, which slopes from above downwards and inwards. The gladiolus (corjDus sterni), considerably longer, narrower, and thinner than the manu- brium, attains its greatest breadth close to the lower end. Its anterior surface is nearly flat, directed upwards and forwards, and marked by three transverse ridges which cross the bone opposite the third, fourth, and fifth articular depressions.* It affords attachment on either side to the sternal origin of the Pectoralis major. At the junction of the tliird and fourth pieces is occasionally seen an orifice, the sternal fora- men, of varying size and form. The posterior surface, slightly concave, is also marked by three transverse Unes, less distinct, however, than those in front; it affords attachment below, on either side, to the Triangularis sterni. The superior border is oval and articulates with the manubrium, the junction of the two forming the ang^dus Ludovici (angulus sterni). The inferior border is narrow, and articulates with the ^^th ensiform appendix. Each lateral border, at its superior angle, has a small facet, which with a similar facet on the manubrium, forms a cavity for the cartilage of the second rib ; below tliis are four angular depressions which receive the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, wliile the inferior angle has a small facet, which, A^ ith a corresponding one on the ensiform appendix, forms a notch for the cartilage of the seventh rib. These articular depressions are separated by a series of curved interarticvdar mtervals, which diminish in length from above downwards, and correspond to the inter- costal spaces. Most of the cartilages belonging to the true ribs, as w ill be seen from the foregoing description, articulate with the sternum at the lines of junction of its primitive component segments. This is well seen in many of the lower animals, where the separate parts of the bone remain unuiiited longer than in man. • i • j The ensiform process or xiphoid appendix (processus xiphoideus) is the smallest of the tliree pieces : it is thin and elongated in form, cartilaginous * Paterson (77(c Huvum Sternum, 1904), who cxamiiied 52-1 specimens, points out that these ridges are altogether absent in 26 7 per cent.; that in 69 per cent, andge exists opposite the third costal attachment; in 39 per cent, opposite the fourth ; and m 4 per cent, only, opposite the fifth. k vis ■ rfeZi' - 3rd 1 ^5th N. 4^ ^ W