1228 SPLANCHNOLOGY secretion. They are called the ovula Nabolhi. The mucous membrane covering the lower half of the cervical canal presents numerous papilte. The epithelium of the upper two- thirds is cylindrical and ciliated, but below this it loses its cilia, and gradually chantres to squamous einthelium close to the external os. On the vaginal surface of the cervix the epithelium is similar to that lining the vagina, viz. stratified squamous. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the uterus are the uterine, from the internal iliac • and the ovarian, from the abdominal aorta (fig. 1016). They are remarkable for their tortuous course in the substance of the organ, and for their frequent anastomoses. The termination of the ovarian artery meets the termination of the uterine artery, and forms an anastomotic trunk from which branches are given oil to supply the uterus, their disposition being, as shown by Sir John Williams, circular. The veins are of large size, and correspond with the arteries. They terminate in the uterine plexuses. In the impregnated uterus the arteries carry the blood to, and the veins convey it away from, the maternal blood-sinuses of the placenta (see page 100). The lymphatics are described on page 789. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric and ovarian plexuses, and from the third and fourth sacral nerves. Applied Anatomy.—A certain amount of anteversion and retroversion can take place without the condition being regarded as pathological, but when the degree of flexion becomes considerable it must be regarded as a morbid condition. This is especially true of retroversion and retroflexion. The former is a falling back of the whole uterus, so that the cervix points upwards towards the pubes, and the latter is a bending backwards of the body, the cervix remaining in its normal position. The two conditions are usually combined. Prolapse of the uterus is another common infii-mity. The organ sinks to an abnormally low level in the pelvis, and sometimes protrudes beyond the vulva. This is due to the supporting mechanism of the uterus being insufficient to sustain the strain thrown upon it. The uterus may require removal in cases of mahgnant disease or for fibroid tumours. Carcinoma is the most common form of mahgnant disease of the uteras, though cases of sarcoma do occur. It may show itself either as a columnar carcinoma or as a squamous carcinoma ; the former commencing either in the cervix or body of the uterus, the latter always commencing in the epithehal cells of the mucous covering of the vaginal surface of the cervix. Cancer of the body or of the cervix may be treated in the early stage, before fixation has taken place, by removal of the uterus, either through the vagina or b\' means of abdominal section, but if the body be much enlarged the former operation is impossible. Vaginal hysterectomy is performed by placing the patient in the hthotomy position and introducing a large duckbill speculum. The cervix is then seized with a volsellum and pulled down as far as possible, and the mucous membrane of the vagina incised around the cervix and as near to it as the disease vidll allow, especially in front, where the m-eters are in dan:;er of being wounded. Douglas's pouch is tlien opened sufficientl}' to allow of the introduction of the two forefingers, by means of which the opening is dilated laterally as far as the sacro-uterine ligaments. A somewhat similar proceeding is adopted in front, but here the bladder has to be separated from the anterior wall of the uterus for about an inch before the vesico-uterine fold of peritoneum can be reached. Tliis is done by carefully burrowing upwards with a director and stripping the tissues off the anterior uterine wall. When the vesico-uterine pouch has been opened and the aperture dilated laterally, the uterus remains attached only by the broad ligaments, in which are contained the vessels that supply the uterus. Before division of the ligaments, these vassels have to be dealt with. The forefinger of the left hand is introduced into Douglas's pouch, and an aneurysm needle, armed wdth a long silk ligatiu-e, is inserted into the vesico-uterine pouch, and is pushed through the broad ligament about an inch above its lower level and at some distance from the uterus. One end of the ligature is now pulled through the anterior oijening. and in this way we have the lowest inch of the broad ligament, in which is contained the uterine artery (fig. 1016), enclosed in a ligature. This is tied tightly, and the operation is repeated on the other side. The broad ligament is then divided on either side, between the ligature and the uterus, to the extent to which it has been constricted. By traction on the volsellum which grasps the cervix, the uterus can be pulled considerabl)' further down in the vagina, and a second inch of the broad ligament is treated in a similar way. This second ligature will embrace the pampiniform plexus of veins, and, when the broad ligament has been divided on either side, it will be found that a third ligature can be made to pass over the Fallopian tube and top of the broad ligament, after the uterus has been dragged down as far as possible. After the third ligatm-e has been tied and the structures between it and the utei-us divided, this organ will be freed from all its con- nections and can be removed from the vagina. The third ligature \\\\\ contain the ovarian artery, between the ovary and the uterine cornu, as it lies below the Fallopian tulie. The vagina is then sponged out and lightly dressed with gauze ; no sutures being u-sed. In the treatment of uterine fibroids which require ojicrative interference, renioval of the whole of the uterus together with the tumours through an abdominal incision gives the most satisfactory results ; for, if the tumour is large, its size acts as a barrier to its safe delivery through the pelvis and genital passages. After the abdomen has been opened the uterine vessels are secured and the broad ligaments divided in a manner similar to that