MYOLOGY 546 Fig. 624.—Posterior sm-faoe of the forearm. Superficial muscles. A'xA ossis jnetacarpi /'otlicis KjcI. brevis poUlH •titton Superficial Layer Extensor communis digitorum. Extensor minimi digiti. Extensor carpi ulnaris. Anconeus. The Extensor communis digitorum (m. extensor digi- torum communis) is situated at tlie back part of the forearm. It arises from the external epi- condyle of tlie humerus, by tlie common tendon ; from tlie deejj fascia, and the intermuscular septa between it and the ad- jacent muscles. It divides belo\\- into four tendons, which pass, together with that of the Ex- tensor indicis, through a separate compartment of the annular liga- ment, lubricated by a synovial membrane. The tendons then diverge, and, after passing across the back of the hand, are in- serted mto the second and third phalanges of the fingers in the fol- lowing manner. Opposite the meta- carpo - phalangeal articulation each tendon is bomid by f ascicuh to the lateral hgaments and serves as the posterior ligament; after having passed the jomt.it spreads out uito a broad aponeinosis. which covers the dorsal surface of the first phalanx and is re- inforced, in this situation, by the tendons of the luterossei and Lumbricales. Opposite the first interphalangeal joint this apo- neurosis divides into three sUps, a middle and two lateral: the former is mserted into the base of the second phalanx ; and the two lateral, which are contuiued onwards along the sides of the second phalairx, unite by then- contiguous marguis, and are m- serted mto the dorsal surface of the last phalanx. As the tendons cross the interphalangeal jomts, they furnisli them with posterior hgaments. The tendon to the index finger is accompanied by the Extensor indicis, which lies on its mner side. On the back of the hand, the three inner tendons — those to the middle, ring, and httle fingers—are con- nected bv two obliquely placed bands, one from the third tendon passing downwards and oui- wards to the second tendon, and the other passing from the