633 FACIAL ARTERY The tonsillar brancli (ramus tonsillaris) (fig. 580) ascends between the Internal pterygoid and Stylo-glossus, and then along the side of the pharynx, perforating the Superior constrictor, to ramify in the substance of the tonsil and root of the tongue. The submaxillary or glandular branches (rami glandulares) consist of three or four large vessels, which supply the submaxillary gland, some being prolonged to the neighbouring muscles, lymphatic glands, and integument. The submental (a. submentalis), the largest of the cervical branches, is given off from the facial artery just as that vessel quits the submaxillary gland : it runs forwards upon the Mylo-hyoid muscle, just below the body of the mandible, and beneath the Digastric. After supplying the surrounding muscles, and anastomosing with the sublingual artery by branches which perforate the Mylo-hyoid muscle, it arrives at the symphysis menti, where it turns over the border of the mandible and divides into a superficial and a deep branch. The superficial branch passes between the integument and Depressor labii inferioris, suppUes both, and anastomoses with the inferior labial artery ; the deep branch runs between the muscle and the bone, supplies the lip, and anastomoses with the inferior labial and mental arteries. The inferior labial passes beneath the Depressor anguli oris, to supply the muscles and integument of the lower lip, anastomosing with the inferior coronary and submental branches of the facial, and with the mental branch of the inferior dental artery. The inferior coronary (a. labiaHs inferior) arises near the angle of the mouth ; it passes upwards and inwards beneath the Depressor anguh oris, and, penetrating the Orbicularis oris muscle, rims in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane, anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side. It supplies the labial glands, the mucous membrane, and the muscles of the lower Hp ; and anastomoses with, the inferior labial, and the mental branch of the inferior dental aitery. The superior coronary (a. labialis superior) is larger and more tortuous than the preceding. It follows a simdlar course along the edge of the upper lip, lying between the mucous membrane and the Orbicularis oris, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. It supphes the textures of the upper hp, and gives off in its course two or three vessels which ascend to the nose. One, named the inferior artery of the septum, ramifies on the nasal septum as far as the point of the nose ; another, the artery of the ala, supplies the ala of the nose. The lateral nasal is derived from the facial, as that vessel ascends along the side of the nose ; it supplies the ala and dorsum of the nose, anastomosing with its fellow, and with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, the inferior artery of the septum, the artery of the ala, and the infra-orbital. The angular (a. angularis) is the termination of the trunk of the facial; it ascends to the inner angle of the orbit, imbedded in the fibres of the Levator labii superioris alseque nasi, and accompanied by a large vein, the angular. It distributes branches on the cheek which anastomose with the infra-orbital, and, after supplying the lachrymal sac and Orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, terminates by anastomosing with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The muscular branches (rami musculares) in the neck are distributed to the Internal pterygoid and Stylo-liyoid, and on the face to the Masseter and Buccinator. The anastomoses of the facial artery are very numerous, not only with the vessel of the opposite side, but, in the neck, with the sublingual branch of the lingual; with the ascending pharyngeal; with the posterior palatine branch of the internal maxillary, by its inferior or ascending palatine and tonsillar branches ; on the face, with the mental branch of the inferior dental as it emerges from the mental foramen ; with the transverse facial branch of the superficial temporal ; with the infra-orbital branch of the internal maxillary ; and with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. Peculiarities.—The facial artery not infrequently arises by a trunk common to it and the lingual. It varies in its size and in the extent to which it sui^plies the face. It occasionally terminates as the submental, and not infrequently extends only as high as the angle of the mouth or nose. The deficiency is then compensated for by enlargement of one of the neighbouring arteries. Applied Anatomy.—The passage of the facial artery over the body of the mandible would appear to afford a favourable position for the application of pressure in cases of