ANGIOLOGY 610 attached to the musciUar structure by loose elastic tissue which contains blood- vessels and nerves ; its free surface is covered by endothelial cells. The Jibrous rings (annuli fibrosi) surround the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices, and are stronger upon the left than on the right side of the heart. The auri- culo-ventricular rings serve for the attachment of the muscular fibres of the auricles and ventricles, and for the attachment of the mitral and tricuspid valves. The left auriculo-ventricular ring is closely connected, by its right margin, with the aortic arterial ring ; between these and the right auriculo-ventricular ring is a triangular mass of fibrous tissue (trigonum fibrosum) which represents the os cordis seen in the heart of some of the larger animals, as the ox and elephant. Lastly, there is the tendinous band, already referred to (p. 606), on the posterior surface of the conus arteriosus. The fibrous rings surrounding the arterial orifices serve for the attachment of the great vessels and semilunar valves. Each ring receives, by its ventricular margin, the attachment of some of the muscular fibres of the ventricles ; its opposite margin presents three deep semicircular notches, to which the middle coat of the Fig. 568.—Section of the heart showing the interventricular septum. artery is firmly fixed. The attachment of the artery to its fibrous ring is strengthened by the thin cellular coat and serous membrane externally, and by the endocardium internaUy. From the margins of the semicircular notches, the fibrous structure of the ring is continued into the segments of the valve, ilie middle coat of the artery in this situation is thin, and the wall of the vessel is dilated to form the sinuses of Valsalva. The muscular structure of the heart consists of bands of fibres, wJiicli present an exceedingly intricate iriterlacement. They consist of (a) the fibres ol the auricles, (6) the fibres of the ventricles, and (c) the aiuiculo-ventricular bundle of His The fibres of the auricles are arranged in two layers—a superficial common to both cavities, and a deep proper to each. The superficial fibres are more distinct on the front of the auricles, across the bases of which they run m a transverse direction, forming a thin and incomplete layer. Some of these fibres run into the septum auricularum. The deep fibres consist of looped and annular fibres, ilie