OSTEOLOGY 196 1 for each lamina {6th week) Fig. 262. By 8 secondary centres Neuro-central sy7ichondrosis 11 for each \ trans, process I Wth year 1/or sirinous process (Wth year) Fig. 263. By 2 additional plates 1 for upper surface of body occur, excepting a gradual increase in the growtli of these primary centres, the upper and under surfaces of the bodies, and the ends of the transverse and spinous processes, being cartilaginous. Fig. 261.—Ossification ot a vertebra. By 8 ■primary centres 1 for body (6th week) About the sixteenth year (fig. 262), five secondary centres appear, one for the tip of each transverse process, one for the extremity of the spinous process, and two epiphysial plates, one for the upper and the other for the lower surface of the body (fig. 263). These fuse with the rest of the bone about the age of twenty-five. Exceptions to this mode of development occur in the first, second, and seventh cervical vertebrae, and in those of the lumbar region. The atlas is usually ossified from three centres (fig. 264). Two of these are destined for the lateral masses, the ossifica- tion of which commences about the seventh week of foetal life near the articular processes, and extends backwards ; at birth, these portions of bone are separated from one another behind by a narrow interval filled with cartilage. Between the third and fourth years they unite either directly or through the medium of a separate centre developed in the cartilage. The anterior arch, at birth, is alto- gether cartilaginous and consists of the hypochordal brace or bar (see page 103), which persists in the case of this vertebra; in tliis a separate nucleus appears about the end of the first year after birth, and joins the lateral masses from the sixth to the eighth year —their lines of union extending across the anterior portions of the superior articular facets. Sometimes two nuclei, one on either side of the median line, are developed in the cartilage, and join to form a single mass. Occasionally there is no separate centre, the anterior arch being formed by the forward extension and ultimate junction of the two lateral masses. The axis is ossified from five- primaiv and two secondary centres (fig. 265). The body and neural arch arc ossified in the same manner as the corre- sponding parts in the other vcrtebrre, viz., one centre for tl\c lower part of the body, and two for the neural arch. The centres for the neural arch appear about the 1 for under surface of body 16th year By 3 centres Fig. 264.—Atlas. 1 for anter. arch {end of 1st yr.) I Ith week 1 for each lateral mass ■ Fig. 265.—Axis. By Y centres ind year Glh month 1 for each lateral mass (jtli or eighth week) 1 for body {ith month) 1 for under surface of body Fig. 266.—Lumbar vertebra. 2 additional centres for mamillary tubercles