MUSCLES OF THE BACK 497 tiom four to eight. It is intimately united with the Semispinalis dorsi, which lies beneath it. The Spinalis colli is an inconstant muscle, which arises from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchaj, the spine of the seventh cervical, and sometimes from the spines of the first and second thoracic vertebrse, and is inserted into the spinous process of the axis, and occasionally into the spinous processes of the two vertebra; below it. The Complexus (m.^semispinalis capitis) is a broad, thick muscle, situated at the upper and back part of the neck, beneath the Splenius, and internal to the Transversalis cervicis and Trachelo-mastoid. It arises by a series of tendons from the tips of the transverse processes of the upper six or seven thoracic and the seventh cervical vertebrae, and from the articular processes of the three cervical above this. The tendons, uniting, form a broad muscle, which passes obliquely upwards and inwards, and is inserted into the innermost depression between the two curved lines of the occipital bone. This muscle is traversed about its middle by an imperfect tendinous intersection. The term Biventer cervicis is given to the inner portion of the Complexus ; this portion is usually separated from the rest of the muscle, and consists of two fleshy bellies connected by an intervening tendon. Fifth Layer The fifth layer, or rather group, of muscles comprises the Semispinalis dorsi. Extensor coccygis. Semispinalis colli. Inter trans versales. Multifidus spinae. Rectus capitis jjosticus major. Rotatores spinse. Rectus capitis posticus mmor. Interspinales. Obliquus capitis inferior. Obliquus capitis superior. The Semispinalis dorsi (fig. 499) consists of thin, narrow, fleshy fasciculi, interposed between tendons of considerable length. It arises by a series of small tendons from the transverse processes of the lower thoracic vertebrae, from the sixth to the tenth inclusive, and is inserted, by five or six tendons, into the spinous processes of the upper four thoracic and lower two cervical vertebrae. The Semispinalis colli (m. semispinalis cervicis), thicker than the pre- ceding, arises by a series of tendinous and fleshy fibres from the transverse processes of the upper five or six thoracic vertebrae, and is inserted into the cervical spinous processes, from the axis to the fifth inclusive. The fasciculus connected with the axis is the largest, and is chiefly muscular in structure. The Multifidus spinae (m. multifidus) consists of a number of fleshy and tendmous fasciculi, which fill up the groove on either side of the spinous processes of the vertebrae, from the sacrum to the axis. In the sacral region, these fasciculi arise from the back of the sacrum, as low as the fourth sacral foramen, from the aponeurosis of origin of the Erector spinae, from the mner surface of the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and from the posterior sacro- iliac ligaments ; in the lumbar region, from the mamillary processes ; in the thoracic region, from the transverse processes ; and m the cervical region, from the articular processes of the four lower vertebrae. Each fasciculus, passmg obliquely upwards and inwards, is inserted into the whole length of the spmous process of one of the vertebrae above. These fasciculi vary in length : the most superficial, the longest, pass from one vertebra to the third '^^ rP^^j''^ above ; those next in order pass from one vertebra to the second or third above ; while the deepest connect two contiguous vertebrae. ihe Rotatores spinae (mm. rotatores) are found only in the thoracic region ot the vertebral column, beneath the Multifidus spmae ; they are eleven in number on either side. Each muscle is small and somewhat quadrilateral in orm ; it arises from the upper and back part of the transverse process, and IS inserted into the lower border and outer surface of the lamina of the vertebra Th ^fi' • ^^^^^ extendmg inwards as far as the root of the spmous process, ine bi'st IS found between the first and second thoracic vertebrae ; the last, K K