624 ANGIOLOGY The thyreoidea ima ascends in front of tlic trachea to the lower part of the thyroid body, wliicli it supjjlies. It varies greatly in size, and appears to compensate for deficiency or absence of one of the other thyroid vessels. It occasionally arises from the aorta, the right common carotid, the subclavian or the internal mammary. Peculiarities in point of division.—When the bifurcation of the innominate artery varies from the point above mentioned, the vessel sometimes ascends a considerable distance above the sternal end of the clavicle ; less frequently it divides below it. In cases of the former class, its length may exceed two inches ; and, in the latter, be reduced to an inch or less. Position.—When the aorta arches over to the right side, the innominate is directed to the left side of the neck instead of the right. Collateral Circvlation.—Allan Burns demonstrated, on the dead subject, the possibilitj- of the establishment of the collateral circulation after ligature of the innominate arterj', by tying and dividing that artery. He then found that ' Even coarse injection, impelled into the aorta, passed freely by the anastomosing branches into the arteries of the right arm, filling them and all the vessels of the head completely.'* The branches by which this circulation would be carried on are very numerous ; thus, all the communications across the middle line between the branches of the carotid arteries of oiDposite sides would be available for the supply of blood to the right side of the head and neck; while the anastomosis between the superior intercostal of the subclavian and the first aortic inter- costal (see infra on the collateral circulation after obliteration of the thoracic aorta) would bring the blood, by a free and direct course, into the right subclavian. The numerous connections, also, between the intercostal arteries and the branches of the axillary and internal mammary arteries would, doubtless, assist in the supply of blood to the right arm, while the deep epigastric from the external iliac would, hy means of its anastomosis with the internal mammary, compensate for any deficiency in the vascularity of the wall of the chest. Applied Anatomy.—Aneurysm of the innominate artery not infrequently occurs a-s an accompaniment to aneurysm of the arch of the aorta. It causes bulgmg of the right sterno-clavicular articulation, pushing forwards the Sterno-mastoid muscle and filling up the suprasternal notch. It produces serious pressure symptoms: from pressure on the innominate veins it may cause oedema of the upper extremities, and of the head and neck ; from pressure on the trachea it produces dyspnoea ; and from pressure on the right recurrent laryngeal nerve, hoarseness and laryngeal cough. Although the operation of tying the innominate artery has been performed by several surgeons, not many successes have been recorded. The chief danger of the operation appears to be the frequency of secondary haemorrhage; but in the present day, mth the practice of aseptic surgery and our greater knowledge of the use of the hgature, more favourable results may be anticipated. The main obstacles to the operation are, the deep situation of the artery behind and beneath the sternum, and the number of important structures which surround it in every part. In order to apply a hgature to this vessel, the patient is to be placed upon his back with the thorax shghtly raised, the head bent a little backwards, and the right shoulder strongly depressed, so as to draw out the artery from behind the sternum into the neck. An incision three or more inches long is then made along the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, terminating at the sternal end of the clavicle. From this point, a second mcision is carried about the same length along the upper border of the clavicle. The skin is then dissected back, and the Platysma divided on a director: the sternal end of the Sterno-mastoid is now brought into view, and a director being passed beneath it, and close to its under surface, so as to avoid any small vessels, it is to be divided : in hke manner the clavicular origin is to be divided throughout the whole or greater part of its attachment. By pressing aside any loose cellular tissue or vessels that may now appear, the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyi-oid muscles will be exposed, and niust be divided, a director being previously passed beneath them. The inferior thjToid veins may come into view, and must be carefully drawi either upwards or downwards, by means of a blunt hook, or tied with double ligatures and divided. After tearing through a strong fibro-cellular lamina, the right carotid is brought into view, and being traced downwards, the arteria innorainata is arrived at. The left innominate vein should no« be depressed; the right innominate vein, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastrie nerve drawn to the right side ; and a curved aneurysm needle may then be ]3assed arouiui the aorta for the formation of the coaguluin. Ihe importi plexus of veins during the priniury steps of the operation, and the^ pleural sac vhik including the vessel in the ligature, should be most carefully borne in mind. * Siirginal Anatomy ofthr Hind and yech, p. 02.