396 SYNDESMOLOGY sciatio ligament; and below, by the small sacro-sciatic ligament. It is partially filled up, in the recent state, by the Pyi'iformis which passes through it. Above this muscle, the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve emerge from the pelvis ; and below it, the sciatic vessels and nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerve, the inferior gluteal nerve, and the nerves to the Obturator internus and Qiiadratus femoris make their exit from the pelvis. The inferior or small sacro-sciatic foramen (foramen ischiadicum minus) Ls bounded, in front, by the tuber ischii ; above, by the spine of the ischium and small sacro-sciatic ligament; behind, by the great sacro-sciatic ligament. It transmits the tendon of the Obturator internus, its nerve, and the internal pudic vessels and nerve. 3. Articulation op the Sacrum and Coccyx This articulation is an amphiartlirodial joint, formed between the oval surface at the apex of the sacrum, and the base of the coccyx. It is homologous with the joints between the bodies of the vertebr33, and is connected by similar ligaments. They are: Anterior Sacro-coccygeal. Lateral Sacro-coccygeal. Posterior Sacro-coccygeal. Interposed Fibro-cartilage. Interarticular. The Anterior Sacro-coccygeal Ligament (lig. sacrococcygeum anterius) consists of a few irregular fibres, which descend from the anterior surface of the sacrum to the front of the coccyx, becoming blended -with the periosteum. The Posterior Sacro-coccygeal Ligament (lig. sacrococcygeum posterius) is a fiat band, of a pearly tint, which arises from the margin of the lower orifice of the sacral canal, and descends to be inserted into the posterior sm-face of the coccyx. This ligament completes the lower and back part of the sacral canal and its superficial fibres are much longer than the more deeply seated. It is in relation, behind, with the Gluteus maximus. A Lateral Sacro-coccygeal Ligament (lig. sacrococcygeum laterale) exists on either side of the joint and connects the transverse process of the coccyx to the lower lateral angle of the sacrum. A disc of Fibro-cartilage is interposed between the contiguous surfaces of the sacrum and coccyx ; it differs from those between the bodies of the vertebrae in beuig thumer, and its central part firmer in texture. It is some- what thicker m. front and behind than at the sides. Occasionally the coccyx is freely movable, most notably during pregnancy ; in such cases a synovial membrane is present. . The Interarticular Ligaments are thin bands of ligamentous tissue, which unite the cornua of the two bones. The different segments of the coccyx are connected together by the exten- sion downwards of the anterior and posterior sacro-coccygeal ligaments, thin annular discs of fibro-cartilage bemg mterposed between the segments, in the adult male, all the pieces become ossified together at a comparatively early period ; but in the female, this does not commonly occur until a later period of life. At a more advanced age the joint between the sacrum and coccyx is obliterated. - , Movements.—The movements which take place between the sacrum and coccyx, and between the different pieces of the latter bone, are forwards and backwards ; they are very Umited. Their extent increases dunng pregnancy. 4. Articulation of the Pubic Bones (Symphysis Pubis) The articulation between the pubic bones is an amphiarthrodial joint, formed between the two oval articular surfaces of the pubic bones, ihe ligaments of this articulation are : Anterior Pubic. Superior Pubic. Posterior Pubic. Subpubic. Interpubic Disc. The Anterior Pubic Ligament (Hg. pubicum anterius) (fig. 442) consists of several superimposed layers, which pass across tlie front of the articiUation. The superficial fibres pass obUquely from one bone to the other, decussatmg