MUSCLES OF THE BACK 493 The Latissimus dorsi, when it acts upon the humerus, depresses it, draws it backwards, and at the same time rotates it inwards. It is the muscle which is principally employed in giving a downward blow, as in felling a tree or in sabre practice. If the arm be fixed, the muscle may act in various ways upon the trunk : thus, it may raise the lower ribs and assist in forcible inspiration; or, if both arms' be fixed, the two muscles may assist the Abdominal and great Pectoral muscles in suspending and drawing the whole trunk forwards, as in chmbing or wallcing on crutches. The Levator anguli scapula; raises the superior angle of the scapula, assisting the Trapezius in bearing weights or in shrugging the shoulders. If the shoulder be fixed, the Levator auguU scapulas inchnes the neck to the corresponding side and rotates it in the same direction. The Rhomboid muscles carry the inferior an^Ic backwards and upwards, thus producing a slight rotation of the scapula upon the side of the chest, the Rhomboideus major acting especially on the lower angle of the scapida, through the tendinous arch by which it is inserted. The Rhomboid muscles, acting together with the middle and inferior fibres of the Trapezius, will retract the scapula. TmRD Layer (fig. 497) Serratus posticus superior. Serratus posticus inferior. CI 1 • r Splenius capitis. Splenius < c 1 • IT [ Splenius colli. The Serratus posticus superior is a thin, flat, quadi-ilateral muscle, situated at the upper and back part of the thorax. It arises by a thin and broad aponeurosis from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchas, from the spinous processes of the last cervical and upper two or three thoracic vertebrjE and from the supraspinous ligament. Inclining downwards and outwards, it becomes muscular, and is inserted, by four fleshy digitations, into the upper borders of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs, a little beyond their angles. The Serratus posticus inferior is situated at the junction of the thoracic and lumbar regions : it is of an irregularly quadrilateral form, broader than the preceding, and separated from it by a wide interval. It arises by a thin aponeurosis from the spinous processes of the last two thoracic and upper two or three lumbar vertebrae, and from the supraspinous ligament. Passing obhquely upwards and outwards, it becomes fleshy, and divides into four flat digitations, which are inserted into the lower borders of the lower four ribs, a little beyond their angles. The thin aponeurosis of origin is intimately blended with the lumbar fascia. The vertebral fascia is a thin, fibrous lamina, extending along the whole length of the back part of the thoracic region, serving to bind down the long extensor muscles of the back which support the vertebral column and head, and to separate them from those muscles which connect the vertebral column to the upper extremity. It consists of longitudinal and transverse fibres blended together, forming a thin lamella, which is attached in the median line to the spinous processes of the thoracic vertebrae ; externally, to the angles of the ribs ; and below, to the upper border of the Serratus posticus inferior and to the portion of the lumbar fascia which gives origin to the Latissimus dorsi ; above, it passes beneath the Serratus posticus superior and the Splenius, and blends with the deep fascia of the neck. The lumbar fascia or aponeurosis (fig. 498), which may be regarded as the posterior aponeurosis of the Transversalis abdominis muscle, consists of three laminae, which are attached as follows : the posterior layer, to the spines of the lumbar and sacral vertebrae and the supraspinous ligament; the middle, to the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras and the intertransverse hgaments ; the anterior, to the roots of the lumbar transverse processes. The posterior layer is continued above as the vertebral fascia, while inferiorly it is fixed to the outer lip of the iliac crest. With this layer are blended the aponeurotic origin of the Serratus posticus inferior and part of that of the Latissimus dorsi. The middle layer is attached above to the last rib, and below to the iliac crest; the anterior layer is fixed below to the