639 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY The small meningeal (ramus meiiingeus accessorius) is sometimes derived from the preceding. It enters the skull through the foramen ovale, and supplies the Gasseriau ganglion and dura mater. The inferior dental (a. alveolaris inferior) descends with the inferior dental nerve to the foramen on the inner side of the ramus of the mandible. It runs along the dental canal in the substance of the bone, accompanied by the nerve, and opposite the first bicuspid tooth divides into two branches, incisor and mental. The incisor branch is continued forwards beneath the incisor teeth as far as the symphysis menti, where it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side; the mental branch (a. mentalis) escapes with the nerve at the mental foramen, supplies the chin, and anastomoses with the submental, inferior labial, and inferior coronary arteries. Near its origin the inferior dental artery gives off a lingual branch, which descends with the lingual nerve and supplies the mucous membrane of the mouth. As the inferior dental artery enters the foramen, it gives off a niylo-hyoid branch (ramus mylohyoideus) which runs in the mylo-hyoid groove, and ramifies on the under surface of the Mylo-hyoid. The inferior dental artery and its incisor branch during their course through the substance of the bone give off a few twigs which are lost in the cancellous tissiie, and a series of branches which correspond in number to the roots of the teeth : these enter the minute apertures at the extremities of the fangs, and supply the pulp of the teeth. Branches of the Second or Pterygoid Portion Deep temporal. Masseteric. Pterygoid. Buccal. The deep temporal branches, two in number, anterior (a. temporalis profunda anterior) and posterior (a. temporalis profunda posterior), ascend between the Temporal muscle and the pericranium ; they supply the muscle, and anastomose with the middle temporal artery ; the anterior commmiicates with the lachrymal by means of small branches which perforate the malar bone and greater wing of the sphenoid. The pterygoid branches (rami pterygoidei), irregular in their number and origin, supply the Pterygoid muscles. The masseteric (a. masseterica) is a small branch which passes outwards, above the sigmoid notch of the mandible, to the deep surface of the Masseter. It supplies the muscle, and anastomoses with the masseteric branches of the facial and with the transverse facial artery. The buccal (a. buccinatoria) is a small branch which runs obliquely forwards, between the Internal pterygoid and the ramus of the jaw, to the outer surface of the Buccinator, to which it is distributed, anastomosing with branches of the facial artery. Branches of the Third or Spheno-maxillary Portion Alveolar. Vidian. Infra-orbital. Pterygo-palatine. Descending palatine. Naso- or Spheno-palatine. The alveolar or posterior dental (a. alveolaris superior posterior) is given off from the internal maxillary, frequently in conjunction with the infra-orbital just as the trunk of the vessel is passing into the spheno-maxillary fossa. Descending upon the tuberosity of the maxilla, it divides into numerous branches, some of which enter the posterior dental canals, to supply the molar and bicuspid teeth and the lining of the antrum, while others are continued forwards on the alveolar process to supply the gums. The infra-orbital (a. infraorbitalis) appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of the trunk of the internal maxillary, but often arises from that vessel in conjunction with the preceding branch. It runs along the infra-orbital canal with the superior maxiUary nerve, and emerges on the face through the infra-orbital foramen, beneath the Levator labii superioris. While in the canal, it gives off (a) branches which ascend into the orbit, and assist in supplying the