687 ABDOMINAL AORTA common ligament and left lumbar veins. On the right side it is in relation above w^th the vena azygos major, receptaculum chyli, thoracic duct, and the right crus of the Diaphragm—the last separating it from the upper part of the inferior vena cava, and from the right semilimar ganglion; the inferior vena cava is in contact with the aorta below. On the left side are the left crus of the Diaphragm, the left semiUmar ganghon, the fourth part of the duodenum, and some coils of the small intestine. Surface Marking.—In order to map out the abdominal aorta on the surface of the abdomen, a line must be di-awn from the middle line of tlie body, on a level with the seventh costal cartilages, downwards and slightly to the left, so that it just skirts the umbilicus, to a zone dra%\'n round the body opposite the highest point of the crest of the ilium. This point is generally half an inch below and to the left of the umbilicus, but as the position of this structure varies with tlie obesity of the individual, it is not a reliable landmark for tlie situation of the bifurcation of the aorta. Applied Avatmny.—The abdominal aorta may be the seat of an aneurysm either at its upper part, close to and often involving the cojliac axis, or at its lower part, near the bifm'cation. Occasionally aneurysms are met witli on some of the branches of the aorta, the mesenteric or splenic, quite independent of the main trunk. When an aneurysmal sac is connected with the back part of the abdominal aorta, it usually produces absorption of the bodies of the vertebra;, and forms a pxilsating tumour that presents itself in the left hypochondriac or epigastric regions, and is accompanied by symptoms of disturbance in the ahmentary canal. Pain is invariably present, and is usually of two kinds—a fixed and constant j)ain in the back, caused by the tumoiu' pressing on or displacing the branches of the solar plexus and splanchnic nerves ; and a sharp lancinating pain, radiating along those branches of the lumbar nerves which are pressed on by the tumour ; hence the pain in the loins, the testes, the hjrpogastrium, and m the lower limb (generally of the left side). This form of aneurysm usuaUj'- bursts into the peritoneal cavity, or behind the peritoneum, in the left hypochondriac region ; or it may form a large aneurysmal sac, extending do^^Tl as low as Poupart's ligament. WTien an aneurj'smal sac is connected with the front of the aorta near the creliac axis, it forms a pulsating tumour in the left hypochondriac or epigastric regions, usually attended with symptoms of chsturbance of the ahmentary canal, as sickness, dyspepsia, or constipation, and accompanied by pain, which is constant, but nearly always fixed, in the loins, epigastrium, or some part of the abdomen ; the radiating pain being rare, as the lumbar nerves are seldom imphcated. This form of aneurysm may burst into the peritoneal cavity, behind the peritoneum, between the layers of the mesentery, or, more rarely, into the duodenum ; it rarely extends backwards so as to affect the spme. Occlusion of the abdominal aorta by thrombosis or embohsm is rare, but produces very severe symptoms when it does occur. The patient complams of intense pain in the legs ; pallor of the legs, followed by coldness, lividity, paresis, paralysis, and finally gangi'ene, are hkely to succeed, death usually supervening within a fortnight. The abdommal aorta has been tied several times, and although none of the patients permanently recovered, still, as one case lived forty-eight days, the possibihty of the re-estabUshment of the circulation may be considered to be proved. Collateral CircxiMion.—The collateral circulation would be can-ied on by the anasto- moses between the mternal mammary and the deep epigastric ; by the free communication between the superior and inferior mesenteries, if the hgature were placed above the latter vessel; or by the anastomosis between the inferior mesenteric and the internal pudic, when (as is more common) the point of ligature is below the origin of the inferior mesenteric ; and possibly by the anastomoses of the lumbar arteries with the branches of the internal' iliac. Branches op the Abdominal Aorta The branches of the abdominal aorta may be divided into three sets : visceral, parietal, and terminal. Visceral Branches. Parietal Branches. (Gastric. Inferior phrenic. Coeliac axis-Hepatic. Lumbar. i Splenic. Middle sacral. Superior mesenteric. Inferior mesenteric. Suprarenal. Renal. Terminal Branches. Spermatic or Ovarian. Common iliacs. Of the visceral branches, the coeliac axis and the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries are single, while the suprarenal, renal, and spermatic or