THE VASCULAR SYSTEM 59 migrating from the blood-vessels, emerge ; but this view, though probable, is not universallv accepted. Kolosaow describes these cells as having a rather more complex structure. He states that each consists of two parts: of hyaline ground-plates, and of a proto- plasmic granidar part, in which is imbedded the nucleus, on the outside of the iiround-plates. The hyaline internal coat of the capillaries does not form a complete membrane, but consists of ' plates ' which are inelastic, and though in contact with each other are not continuous ; when therefore the capillaries are subjected to intravascular pressure, the plates become separated from each other ; the protoplasmic portions of the cells, on the other hand, are united together. In many situations a deUcate sheath or envelope of branched nucleated connective tissue cells is found around the simple capillary tube, particularly in the larger ones ; and in other places, especially in the glands, the capillaries are invested with retiform connective tissue. Fig. 78.—Section of a medium-sized vein. Endothelium- lilastic layer Middle coat -^i:* Outer coat P. & cue In the largest capillaries (which ought, perhaps, to be described rather as the smallest arteries or pre-capillaries) there is, outside the epithelial layer, a muscular layer consisting of contractile fibre-cells arranged transversely, as in the tunica media of the arteries (fig. 77). Structure of veins.—The veins, like the arteries, are composed of three coats— uiternal, middle, and external; and these coats are, with the necessary modifica- tions, analogous to the coats of the arteries ; the internal being the endothelial, the middle the muscular, and the external the connective or areolar (fig. 78). The main difference between the veins and the arteries is in the comparative weakness of the middle coat in the former. In the smallest veins the three coats are hardly to be distinguished. The endothelium is supported on a membrane separable into two layers, the outer of which is the thicker, and consists of a deUcate, nucleated membrane (adven- titia), while the inner is composed of a network of longitudinal clastic fibres (incdia). In the veins next above these in size (one-sixtieth of an inch in diameter), according to Kolliker a connective tissue layer containing lunnerous