OSTEOLOGY 300 ossification begins in the capitellum, and extends inwards, to form the chief part of the articuhir end of the bone, the centre for the inner part of the trochlea not appearing until about the age of twelve. Ossification commences in the internal epicondyle about the fifth year, and in the external about the thirteenth or fourteenth year. About the sixteenth or seventeenth year, the outer epicondyle and both portions of the articulating surface, having already joined, unite with the shaft, and at tlie eighteenth year the inner epicondyle becomes joined to it. Articulations.—The humerus articulates with the scapula, and with the ulna and radius. Surface Form.—The humeriis is almost entirely clothed by the muscles which surroxmd it, and the only parts of the bone which are strictly subcutaneous are small portions of the internal and external epicondyles. In addition to these, the tuberosities and a part of the head of the bone can be felt under the skin and muscles by which they are covered. Of these the greater tuberosity forms the most prominent bony point of the shoulder, extending beyond the acromion process and covered by the Deltoid. It influences materially the surface form of the shoulder. It is best felt while the arm is lying loosely by the side ; if the arm be raised, it recedes from under the finger. The lesser tuberosity, directed forwards and inwards, can be felt on the inner side of the greater tuberositj', just below the acromio-clavicular joint. Between the two tuberosities lies the bicipital groove. This can be defined by making firm pressure with the finger, just internal to tlie greater tuberosity ; on rotating the humerus, the groove will be felt to pass under the finger. With the arm abducted from the side the lower part of the head of the bone can be felt by pressing deeply in the axilla. On either side of the elbow-joint, and just above it, are the internal and external epicondyles. Of these the internal is the more prominent, but the internal supracondylar ridge, f)assing upwards from it, is much less marked than the external, and, as a rule, is not to be felt. Occasionally, however, the hook-shaped process mentioned above is found on this border. The position of the external epicondyle is to be seen most plainly diu-ing semiflexion of the forearm, and is indicated by a depression between the attachments of the adjacent muscles. From it a strong bony ridge can be felt rimning up the outer border of the shaft of the bone. This is the external supra- condylar ridge ; it is concave forwards, and corresponds with the curved direction of the lower extremity of the humerus. Applied Anatomy.—There are several points of surgical interest coimected with the ossification of the humerus. The upper end, though the first to ossify, is the last to join the shaft, and the length of the bone is mainly due to growth from the upper epiphysial line. Hence, in cases of amputation of the arm in young subjects, the humerus continues to grow considerably, and the end of the bone which immediately after the operation was covered with a thick cushion of soft tissue begins to project, thinning the soft parts and rendering the stump conical. This may necessitate the removal of a couple of inches or so of the bone, and even after this operation a recurrence of the conical stump may take place. The region of the upper epiphysis, moreover, is the common site for the growth of tumours, both innocent and maUgnant. There are several points of surgical interest in connection -w-ith fractures of the himierus. The bone may be broken by direct or indirect violence, hke the other long bones, but, in addition to this, it is probably more frequently fractured by muscular action than any other bone of this class. It is usually the shaft, just below the insertion of the Deltoid, which is thus broken, and the accident has been kno^vn to happen from throwing a stone. Fractures of the upper end may take place either through the anatomical or surgical neck, or a separation of the greater tuberosity may occxn. Fracture of the anatomical neck is a very rare accident ; m fact, it is doubted by some whether it ever occurs. Fracture of the surgical neck of the bone is not xmeommon, and impaction may occur; on the other hand, the upper end of the lower fragment may be displaced into the axilla and may damage the vessels or nerves. The fractine some- what closely simulates dislocation of the shoulder-joint, but can be distmguished by the fact that the head of the bone remams in its normal position and the great tuberosity still forms the most prominent point of the shoulder. Separation of the upper epiphysis sometimes occurs in the young subject, and is marked by a characteristic deformity, con- sisting in the presence of an abrupt projection at the front of the jomt some short distance below the coracoid process, caused by the upper end of the lower fragment. In fractures of the shaft of the humerus the lesion may take place at any point, but appears to dc more common in the lower than the upper part of the bone. The points of mterest in connection with these fractures are: (1) that the musculo-spiral nerve may l>e injinecl as it lies in the groove on the bone, or may become involved in the callus which > subsequently thrown out; and (2) the frequency of non-union, winch is ^fjx^^-ed to be more common m the humerus than in any other bone. An important distinction to make in fractures of the lower end is between those that involve the elbow-jomt and thos^ which do not; the former are always serious, as they may lead to impairment ot the utility of the limb. They include the T-shaped fracture and oblique fractures ^^hlcn