197 OSSIFICATION OF VERTEBRA seventh or eighth week of foetal Ufe, that for the body about the tourth or fifth Zni The odontoid process consists originally of an extension upwards of the carSa^inous mass, in which the lower part of the body is formed About the sixth nionth of f^tal Ufe, two centres make their appearance in the base of this process : they are placed laterally. Fig. 267.—Ossification of the sacrum. AMitional centres for costal elements* At birth Fig. 268. At 44 yrs Fig. 269. Tivo epiphysial plates for each lateral surface* and join before birth to form a conical bilobed mass deeply cleft above ; the interval between the cleft and the summit of the process is formed by a wedge-shaped piece of cartilage. The base of the process is separated fi-om the body by a cartilaginous disc, which gradually becomes ossified at its cir- cumference, but remains cartilaginous in its centre until advanced age.* In this cartilage, rudiments of the lower epiphysial lamella of the atlas and the upper epiphysial lamella of the axis may sometimes be found. Finally, as Hum- phry has demonstrated, the apex of the odontoid process has a separate centre, which appears in the second year and joins about the twelfth year. This is the upper epiphysial lamella of the atlas. In addition to these there is a secondary centre for a thin epiphysial plate on the under surface of the body of the bone. The seventh cervical vertebra.—The anterior or costal part of the transverse process of this vertebra is sometiines ossified from a separate centre wliich appears about the sixth month of foetal Ufe, and joins the body and posterior part of the transverse process between the fifth and sixth years. Occasionally the costal part persists as a separate piece, and, becoming lengthened out- wards and forwards, constitutes what is known as a cervical rib. Separate ossific centres have also been found in the costal processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebree. The lumbar vertebrae (fig. 266) have two additional centres for the mamillary tubercles. The transverse process of the first lumbar is sometimes developed as • u f a separate piece, which may remain permanently ununited with the rest of the bone, thus forming a lumbar rib—a pecuUarity, however, rarely met with. Sacrum (figs. 267 to 270).—The body of each sacral vertebra is ossified fi'om a primary centre and two epiphysial plates, one for its upper and another for its under surface, whilst each neural arch is ossified from two centres. The anterior portions of the lateral masses have six additional centres, two for each of the first three vertebrae; these represent the costal elements, and make their appearance above and to the outer side of the anterior sacral foramina (figs. 268 and 269).f * See Cunningham, Joiirn. Anat., vol. xx., p. 238. t The extremities of the spinous processes of the upper tlirec sacral vertebra are sometimes developed from separate epiphyses, and Fawcctt (Amtniuifher Anzeiger, Band AXX., I.IOT) states that a number of epiphysial nodules may be seen in the sacrum at the age of eighteen years. These are distributed as follows: One for each of the mamillary processes of the first sacral vertebra ; twelve—six on either side—in connection with the costal elements (two each for the first and second and one each for the third and fourth) and eight for the At 25th yea)