MUSCULAR TISSUE 37 Fig. 44. — Transverse section from the sterno-mastoid in man. Magnified 50 times. from the perimysium and termed endomysium. This does not form the sheath of the fibres; but serves to support the blood-vessels and nerves ranufyuig between theiu The fibres are enclosed in separate and distinct sheaths of their own, but thcse'are not areolar tissue, and therefore not derived from the perimysium. A muscular fibre may be said to consist of a soft contractile substance, enclosed in a tubular sheath named by Bowman the sarcolcmma. The fibres are cyhndrical or prismatic in shape, and are of no great length, not exceeding, it is said, an inch and a half. They end either by blending with the tendon or aponeurosis, or else by rounded or tapering extremities which are connected to the neighbouring fibres by means of the sarcolemma. Their breadth varies in man from ^l,,- to of an inch. As a rule, the fibres do not divide or anastomose ; but occasionally, especially in the tongue and facial muscles, they may be seen to divide into several branches. The precise mode in which the muscular fibre joins the tendon has been variously described by different observers. It may, perhaps, be sufficient to say that the sarcolemma appears to blend mth a small bundle of fibres, into which the tendon becomes subdivided, wlule the muscular substance ter- minates abruptly and can be readily made to retract from the point of junction. The areolar tissue between the fibres appears to be prolonged more or less into the tendon, so as to form a kind of sheath around the tendon bundles for a longer or shorter distance. When muscular fibres are attached to skin or n. Epimysiiim. l>. Fasciculus. c. Perimysium, i. Fibre. Fig. 45.—^Two human mus- cular fibres. Magnified 350 times. In tlie ono, tlie bundle of librillaj (a) is torn, und tlio sarcolemma (6) is seen as an cmiity tube. Fig. 46.—Fragments of striped muscular fibres, showing a double cleavage. Magnified 300 diameters. C c" . Longitudinal cleavage. Tlie longitudinal and transverse lines are both seen. Some longitudinal lines are darkerand wider than the rest, and are not continuous from end to end. This results from partial separation of the flbrilla'. c. Fibrillaj separated fi-om one another by violence at the broken end of the fibre, and marked by transverse lines oq\ial in width to those on the fibre, c' (f represent two apiiearanccs commonly presented by the sejiaratcd single fibrillii^ (more highly magnified). At c' the borders and transverse lines arc all perfectly rectiluiear, and the included spa(!PS perfectly rectangular. At c" the borders are scallojied and the siiaccs bead-like. When most distinct and definite the librilla presents the former of these appearances. I. Transverse cleavage. The longitudinal lines arc scarcely visible, a. Incom]ileto fracture following the opposite sur- faces of a disc, which stretches across the interval, and retains the two fragments in connection. Tlio edge and surfaces of this disc are seen to be nunutely granidar, the granules corresponding in size to the thickness of the disc, and to the distance between the faint Io^^'itullinal lines. h. Another dis<; nearly detached, b'. DetjicluMl disc, more highly magnified, showing the sarcous elements. niucous niembrancs, their fibres are described by Hyde Salter as becoming continuous with those of the areolar tissue. The sarcolemma, or tubular sheath of the fibre, is a transparent, elastic, and apparently homogeneous membrane of considerable toughness, so that it sometijnes