THE ABDOMEN 1121 middle zone is the umbilical; and the two lateral regions, the right and left lumbar. The middle region of the lower zone is the hypogastric or pubic region ; and the lateral regions are the right and left iliac or inguinal (fig. 922). The pelvis is that portion of the abdominal cavity which lies below and behind a plane passing through the promontory of the sacrum, the ilio-pectineal lines, and the pubic crests. It is bounded behind by the sacrum, coccyx, Pyi-iforrais muscles, and the sacro-sciatic ligaments ; in front and laterally by the pubes and ischia and Obturator internus muscles ; above it communicates with the abdomen proper ; below it is closed by the Levatores ani and Coccygei muscles and the triangular ligament. The pelvis contains the bladder, the pelvic colon, a few coUs of the small intestine, and some of the generative organs. When the anterior abdominal wall is removed, the viscera are partly exposed as follows : above and to the right side is the liver, situated chiefly under the shelter of the right ribs and their cartilages, but extending across the middle Une and reaching for some distance below tlie level of the ensiform cartilage. To the left of the liver is the stomach, from the lower border of which an apron-like fold of - peritoneum, the great omentum, descends for a varying distance, and obscures, to a greater or lesser extent, the other viscera. Below it, however, some of the coils of the small intestine can generally be seen, wliile in the right and left iliac regions respectively the caecum and the iUac colon are partly exposed. The bladder occupies the anterior part of the pelvis, and, if distended, will project above the symphysis pubis ; the rectum lies in the concavity of the sacrum, but is usually obscured by the coils of the small intestine. The pelvic colon lies between the rectum and the bladder. If the stomach is followed from left to right it will be found to be continuous with the first part of the small intestine, or duodenum, the point of continuity being marked by a thickened ring which indicates the position of the pyloric valve. The duodenum passes tow-ards the under surface of the Hver, and then, curving downwards, is lost to sight. If, however, the great omentum be thrown upwards over the chest, the terminal part of the duodenum will be observed passing across the vertebral column towards the left side, where it becomes continuous with the coils of the jejunum and ileum. These measure some twenty feet in length, and if followed downwards will be seen to end in the right ihac fossa by opening into the caecum or commencement of tlie large intestine. From the caecum the large intestine takes an arched course, passing at first upwards on the right side, then across the middle line and downwards on the left side, and forming respectively the ascending, transverse, and descending parts of the colon. In the left iliac region and pelvis it assumes the form of a loop, the iho-pelvic colon or sigmoid flexure, and terminates in the rectum. The spleen hes behind the stomach in the left hypochondriac region, and may be in part exposed by pulling the stomach over towards the right side. The glistening appearance of the deep surface of the abdominal wall and of the exposed viscera is due to the fact that the former is lined, and the latter more or less completely covered, by a serous membrane, the peritoneum. The Peritoneum The peritoneum is the largest serous membrane in the body, and consists, in the male, of a closed sac, a part of wliich is applied against the abdominal parietes, wliile the remainder is reflected over the contained viscera. In the female the peritoneum is not a closed sac, since the free extremities of the Fallopian tubes open directly into the peritoneal cavity. The part which lines the parietes is named the parietal portion of the peritoneum ; that which is reflected over the contained viscera constitutes the visceral portion of the peritoneum.' The free surface of the membrane is smooth, covered by a layer of flattened endothelium, and lubricated by a small quantity of serous fluid. Hence the viscera can glide freely against tlie wall of the cavity or upon one another witli the least possible amount of friction. The attached surface is rough, being connected to the viscera and inner surface of the parietes by means of areolar tissue, termed the subserous areolar tissue. 4c