135 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM Ectoderm Mesoderm Entoderm Blood island DEVELOPMENT OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM There are three distinct stages in the development of the circulatory system, each in accordance mth the manner in which nourishment is provided for at different periods of the existence of the individual. In the first stage there is the vitelline circulation, during which nutriment is extracted from the vitellus or contents of the yolk-sac. In the second stage there is the placental circulation, dunng which nutriment is obtained by means of the placenta from the blood of the mother. In the third stage, com- mencing after birth, Fig. 177.—Section througli vascular area to show commencing there is the complete development of blood-vessel. (Semi-diagrammatic.) circulation of the adult, during which nutrition is provided for by the organs of the individual. Blood-vessels first make their appearance in the mesodermal wall of the yolk-sac, i.e. out- side the body of the embryo. Here the cells become arranged into sohd strands or cords . , i n r ^i. x j which ioin to form a close-meshed network. The peripheral cells of these strands become flattened and joined to each other by their edges to form the walls of the primitive blood-vessels. Fluid collects within the strands and converts them into tubes, and the more centraUy situated cells of the cell-cords are thus pushed to the sides of the vessels and appear as masses of loosely arranged cells which project towards the lumen of the tube. These masses are termed blood islands h» 177)- their ceDs acquire colouring matter, (hsemoglobm), and are then detached to form the blood-corpuscles (fig. 178).* The earUest blood-corpuscles are all nucleated : they are also capable of subdivision and of executing amceboid movements, and in these respects resemble colourless blood-corpuscles. Soon, however, true colourless iv.G. 178.-Later stage. Wood - corpuscles make their appearance, and, according to Beard.f are first derived from the rudi- ments of the thyroid gland. Coincidently with the development of the blood- vessels in the vascular area, the first rudiment of the heart appears as a pair of tubular vessels which are developed in the splanchno- pleure of the pericardial area. These are named the frimilive aortce, and a direct continuity is soon established between them and the vessels of the vascular area. Each receives anteriorly a vein—the vitelHne vein— from the yolk-sac, and is prolonged backwards on the lateral aspect of the notochord under the name of the dorsal aorta. The dorsal aortse end at first on the yolk-sac ; but with the development of the allantois they are continued backwards through the body-stalk as the umbilical arteries to the villi of the chorion. By the forward growth and flexure of the head the pericardial area and the anterior portions of the primitive aortse are folded backwards on the ventral * Some observers incline to the view that the endothelium of the vessels is of entodermal origin. The blood-corpuscles are developed from these endothelial cells, and are therefore also entodermal, the sequence of the development of the different .structures being : first the heart, then the blood-vessels, and lastly the blood-corpuscles. (Consult Dr. E. Mehnert's Biomeohanik, Jena, 1898.) t Anatamncher Anzeigcr, December 1900. elode.rm Mesoderm Entoderm Vessel wall Blood-corpuscles