OSTEOLOGY 232 of the mastoid portion grows downwards and forwards to form the mastoid process and the styloid process and stylo-mastoid foramen now come to lie on the undei surface. The descent of the foramen is necessarily accompanied by a correspond- ing lengthening of the aqueduct of Fallopius. (4) The downward and forward growth of the mastoid process also pushes forward the t}anpauic plate, so that tho portion of it which formed the original floor of the meatus and contained tin foramen of Husclike is ultimately found in the anterior wall. (5) The fossa suh- arcuata becomes filled up and almost obliterated. Articulations.—Tho temporal articulates with five bones: occipital, parietal, sphenoid, mandible, and malar. The Sphenoid Bone The sphenoid bone (os sphenoidale) is situated at the base of the skull in front of the temporals and basilar part of the occipital. It somewhat resembles a bat with its ^yings extended, and is divided into a central portion or body, two greater and two lesser wings extending outwards from the sides of the body, and two pterygoid processes A\hich project from it below. The body (corpus), more or less cubical in shape, is hollowed out in its interior to form two large cavities, the sphenoidal air sinuses, \\'hich are separated from each other by a septum. The superior surface of the body (fig. 301) presents in front a prominent spine, the ethmoidal spine, for articulation with the cribriform plate of the ethmoid ; behind this is a smooth surface slightly raised in the middle Line, with a depression on either side for the olfactory lobes of the brain. This surface is bounded behind by a ridge, which forms the anterior border of a Pig. 301,-—Sphenoid bone. Upper surface. Ellnuoidal narrow, transverse groove, the optic groove (sulcus cliiasmatis), above and behind which lies the optic commissure ; the groove terminates on either side in the optic foramen (foramen opticuni) which transmits the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. Behind the optic groove is an olive-like elevation, the olivary eminence (tuberculum sellae) ; and still more posteriorly, a deep depression, the pituitary fossa, or sella turcica (fossa hypophyseos), which lodges the pituitary body. This fossa is bounded in front by two small eminences, one on either side, called the middle clinoid processes (processus clinoidei medii), and behind by a square-shaped plate of bone, the dorsum sellce, terminating at its superior angles in two tubercles, the posterior clinoid processes (processus clinoidei posteriores), the size and form of which vary considerably in different individuals. The posterior clinoid processes deepen the pituitary fossa, and give attachment to the tentorium cerebelli. On