OSTEOLOGY 2m of the palatine glands. When the two maxillae are articulated, a depression, the anterior palatine fossa, is seen in the middle Ime, immediately behind the incisor teeth. On examining the bottom of this fossa four canals are \dsible: two are situated laterally, and two in the middle line. The lateral canals are named the incisor foramina or foramina of Stenson ; they contam the remains of the organ of Jacobson, and tlirough each of them passes the terminal branch of the posterior palatine artery, which ascends from the mouth to the nasal fossa. The canals in the middle line are termed the foramina of Scarpa, and transmit the naso-palatine nerves, the left passing through the anterior, and the right through the posterior canal. On the under surface of the palatal process, a dehcate linear suture, well seen in young skulls, may sometimes be noticed extending outwards and forwards from the anterior palatine fossa to the interval between the lateral incisor and the canine tooth. The small part in front of this suture constitutes the premaxilla or os incisivum, which in most vertebrates forms an independent 5iG. 315.—The palate and alveolar arch. Foramina of Stenson Horizontal pla te of i>alate lone Accessory palatine canaU bone. It includes the whole tliickness of the alveolus, the corresponding part of the floor of the nose and the anterior nasal spine, and contains the sockets of the incisor teeth. The upper surface of the palatal process is con- cave from side to side, smooth, and forms the greater part of the floor of the nasal fossa. It presents, close to its inner margin, the upper oriflce of the foramen of Stenson. The outer border of the process is incorporated with the rest of the bone. The inner border is thicker in front than behind, and is raised above into a ridge, the nasal crest (crista nasalis), which, with the corresponding ridge of the opposite bone, forms a groove for the reception of the vomer. The front part of this ridge rises to a considerable height, and is n&med the incisor crest; it is prolonged forwards into a sharp process, which forms, together with a similar process of the opposite bone, the anterior nasal spine (spina nasaUs anterior). The middle of the inferior border of the anterior nasal apertui-e at the base of the nasal spine is named the svbnasal point. The posterior border is serrated for articulation with the horizontal plate of the palate-bone.