THE OVUM. 79 The vitellus or yolk comprises (1) the cijloplasm of the ordinaiy aiiimal cell mth its reticulum and cytolymph, the cytoplasm of the ovum being frequently termed' the formaiivc yolk, in order to distinguish it from (2) the nutritive yolk or deidoplasm, which consists of numerous rounded granules of fatty and albu- minoid substances imbedded in the cytoplasm. In the mammalian ovum the nutritive yollc is extremely small in amount, and is of service m nourishing the embryo in the early stages of its development only, whereas in the egg of the bird there is sufficient to supply the chick with nutriment throughout the whole period of incubation. The nutritive yolk not only varies in amomit, but in its mode of distribution within the egg : thus, in some animals it is nearly uniformly distri- buted throughout the cytoplasm ; in others it is centrally placed and is surrounded by the cytoplasm ; in still others it is accumulated at the lower pole of the ovum, while the cytoplasm occupies the upper pole. An attraction sphere with its centro- some is present in the ova of the lower animals, and is probably represented in the ova of mammals by the hoclij of Balbiani. This body is not visible during all the stages of the development of the ovum, and is ' most readily seen before the space appears in the Graafian foUicle. Then the body in question lies in the immediate neighbourhood of the nucleus. It consists of a lighter central sphere enclosing one or two smaller spheres, and surroimded by a more darkly staining protoplasm.' * The germinal vesicle or nucleus is a large spherical body which at first occupies a nearly central position, but becomes eccentric as the growth of the ovum proceeds. Its structure is that of an ordinary cell-nucleus, viz. it consists of a reticulum of achromatin the meshes of which are filled with nuclear sap or karyoplasm ; while connected with, or imbedded in, the achromatic reticulum are a number of chromatin masses or chromosomes, which may present the appearance of a skein or may assume the form of rods or loops. The nucleus is enclosed by a delicate nuclear membrane, and contains in its interior a well-defined nucleolus or germinal spot. COVEEINGS OF THE OVUM The zona pellucida or zona striata (figs. 93, 94) is secreted by the cells of the corona radiata, and consists of a thick, clear membrane, which, under the higher powers of the microscope, is seen to be perforated by numerous fine radially arranged channels. These give to it a striated appearance, and may suffice for the passage of nutritive materials to the ovum; they may also provide an entrance for the spermatozoa at the time of fertiUsation. In some animals (e.g. insects) the zona pellucida presents one or more small perforations or micropyles, by which the spermatozoa are believed to enter. The zona pellucida persists for some time after fertihsation has occurred, and may serve for protection during the earlier stages of segmentation. The corona radiata (fig. 94) consists of two or three strata of cells ; they are derived from the cells of the Graafian follicle, and adhere to the outer surface of the zona pellucida when the ovum is set free from the folUcle. The cells are radially arranged around the zona, those of the innermost layer being columnar in shape, and sending, according to some observers, deUcate processes from their deep ends into the channels of the zona. The cells of the corona radiata soon disappear; in some animals they secrete, or are replaced by, a layer of adhesive protein, which may assist in protecting and nourisliing the ovum. The phenomena attending the discharge of the ova from the Graafian follicles belong more to the ordinary functions of the ovary than to the general subject of embryology, and are therefore described with the anatomy of the ovaries.f MATURATION OF THE OVUM Before an ovum can be fertilised it must undergo a process of maturation or ripening. This takes place previous to, or immediately after, its escape from the Graafian follicle, and consists essentially of an unequal subdivision of the ovum (fig. 95) first into two and then into four cells. Three of the four are small, incapable * Robinson, ' Hunterian Lectures on the Mammalian Ovum and Placenta.' Journal of Anatom;/ and Phyaiology, vol. xxxviii. t See descriplion of the ovary on a future iJage.