450 SYNDESMOLOGY VII. INTEEMETATAESAL AETICULATIONS {AETICULATIONES INTEEMETATAESE^: i The base of the first metatarsal is not connected with the second metatarsal by anj' ligaments ; in this respect the great toe resembles the thumb. The bases of the four outer metatarsals are connected by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal Ligaments pass transversely between the dorsal surfaces of the adjacent metatarsal bones. The Plantar Ligaments have a similar arrangement to those on tlic dorsum. The Interosseous Ligaments consist of strong transverse fibres wliich pass between the rough non-articular portions of the lateral surfaces. The Synovial Membranes between the second and third, and that between the third and fourth metatarsal bones are part of the great tarsal synovial membrane ; that between the fourth and fifth is a prolongation of the synovial membrane of the cubo-metatarsal joint. Movements.—The movement permitted in the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones is limited to a sHght gliding of the articular sm-faces upon one another. Tlie digital extremities of all the metatarsal bones are connected together b}'^ the transverse metatarsal ligament. The Transverse Metatarsal Ligament is a narrow band which passes transversely across the anterior extremities of all the metatarsal bones, connecting them together. It is blended anteriorly with the plantar (glenoid) ligaments of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations ; to its posterior border is comiected the fascia covering the Interosseous muscles. Its inferior surface is concave where the Flexor tendons run below it; above it the tendons of the Interosseous muscles pass to their insertion. It differs from the transverse metacarpal ligament in that it is attached to the fu-st digit and connects it with the others. The Synovial Membranes in the Tarsal and Metatarsal Joints The Synovial Membranes (fig. 480) found in the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus are six in number : one for the posterior calcaneo- astragaloid articulation; a second for the anterior calcaiieo-astragaloid and the astragalo-navicular articulations ; a third for the calcaneo-cuboid articulation ; and a fourth for the articulations of the navicular with the Fig. 480.—Oblique section of the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus. Showing the six synovial membranes. three cuneiforms, the three cuneiforms with each other, the external cuneiforin with the cuboid, and the middle and external cuneiforms with the ba.ses ot the second and third metatarsal bones, and the lateral surfaces of the second third, and fourtii metatarsal bones with each other ; a fiftli for tlie mternal cuneiform with tiie metatarsal bone of the great toe; and a sixtli for tlie