629 EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Surface Marking.—The position of the external carotid artery may be marked out with sufficient accuracy by a line dra\vn from the side of the cricoid cartilage to the front of the meatus of the external ear, arcliing the line slightly forwards. Applied Anatoniij.—The apphcation of a ligature to the external carotid may be required in cases of wound of this vessel, or of its branches when these cannot be tied, and in some cases of pidsating tumours of the scalp or face. It is also done as a preliminary measure to excision of the maxilla. The operation is to be preferred to ligature of the common carotid, as it does not interfere wth the cerebral circulation. The seat of election for ligature is between the origins of the superior tliyi-oid and lingual branches, about a finger's breadth below the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. To tie the vessel, an incision is to be made from the angle of the mandible to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and the superficial tissues and the deep fascia di\aded. The anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid must be retracted and the lower border of the parotid gland raised, so as to expose the tendon of the Digastric and the hypoglossal nerve, which cross the artery. The great difficulty in doing this is due to the plexus of veins derived from the superior thyroid and lingual veins,which overhe the artery. If necessary, these must be ligatured and divided. Care must be taken not to mistake the Ungual and facial, when they arise by a common trunk, as they sometimes do, for the external carotid. Svhen the vessel is exposed, the needle is to be passed from without inwards, carefully avoiding the superior laryngeal nerve, which lies in close proximity to the artery. The circulation is at once re-estabUshed by the free communication between most of the largo branches of the artery (facial, lingual, superior thyroid, occipital) and the corresponding arteries of the opposite side, and by the anastomosis of its branches with those of the internal carotid, and of the occipital with branches of the subclavian, &c. Branches of the External Carotid Artery The external carotid artery gives off eight branches, which, for convenience of description, may be divided into four sets. (See fig. 575.) Anterior. Superior thyroid. Lingual. Facial. Posterior. Occipital. Posterior auricular. Ascending. Ascending pharyngeal. Terminal. Superficial temporal. Liternal maxillary. Fig. 575.—Plan of the branches of the ex- ternal carotid 1. The superior thyroid artery (a. thyreoidea superior) (fig. 574) arises from the external carotid artery just below the level of the great cornu of the hyoid bone and terminates in the thyroid gland. Relations.—From its origin under the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid it runs upwards and forwards for a short distance in the carotid triangle, where it is covered by the skin, Platysma, and fascia; it then arches downwards beneath the Omo-hyoid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-thyroid. To its inner side are the Inferior constrictor of the pharynx and the external laryngeal nerve. Branches. — It distributes twigs to the adjacent muscles, and numerous branches to the thyroid gland, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the inferior thyroid arteries. The branches to the glaud are generally two in nmnber : one, the larger, supphes principally the anterior surface of the gland ; it courses along the inner border of the lateral lobe to the isthmus, in which it anastomoses with the corre- sponding artery of the opposite side : a second branch descends on the posterior surface of the lateral lobe and anastomoses with the inferior thyroid artery. Besides the arteries distributed to the muscles and to the thyroid gland, the branches of tlie superior thyroid are : Infrahyoid. Sterno-mastoid. Superior laryngeal. Crico-thyroid. The infrahyoid branch (ramus hyoideus) is small and runs along the lower border of the hyoid bone beneath the Thyro-hyoid muscle; after supplying the muscles connected to the hyoid bone, it forms an arch, by anastomosing with the vessel of the opposite side.