277 DIFFERENCES IN THE SKULL The anterior nasal apertwe is a heart-shaped or pyriform opening, whose long axis is vertical, and narro^v extremity upwards. This opening in the recent state is much contracted by the cartilages of the nose. It is bounded above by the inferior borders of the nasal bones ; laterally by the thin, sharp margins «-hich separate the facial from the nasal surfaces of the maxillas; and below by the same borders, where they slope inwards to join each otlier at the anterior nasal spine. The posterior nares or choance are each bounded above by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid and ala of the vomer ; below, by the posterior border of the horizontal plate of the palate-bone ; externally, by the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate ; they are separated from each other by the posterior border of the vomer. Differences in the Skull due to Age At birth the skull as a whole is large in proportion to the other parts of the skeleton, but its facial portion is sniall, and equals only about one-eighth of the bulk of the cranium as compared with one-half in the adult. The frontal and parietal eminences are prominent, and the greatest width of the skull is at the level of the latter ; on the other hand, the glabella, supercihary ridges, and mastoid processes are not developed. Ossification of the skull-bones is not completed, and many of them—e.g. the occipital, temporals, sphenoid, frontal, and mandible— consist of more than one piece. Unossified membranous intervals, termed fontanelles, are seen at the angles of the parietal bones ; these fontanelles are six in number : two, an anterior and a posterior, are situated in the middle hne, and two, an antero-lateral and a postero-lateral, are placed on either side. The anterior or hregmatic fontanelle (fig. 345) is the largest, and is situated at the junction of the sagittal, coronal, and interfrontal sutures ; it is lozenge-shaped, and measures about an inch and a half in its antero-posterior and an inch in its trans- FiG. 345.—Skull at bii-th, showng the Fig. 346.—The lateral fontanelles. anterior and posterior fontanelles. verse diameter. The posterior fontanelle is triangular in form and is situated at the junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures. The lateral fontanelles (fig. 346) are small, irregular in shape, and correspond respectively with the antero-inferior and postero-inferior angles of the parietal bones. An additional fontanelle is some- times seen in the sagittal suture at the region of the obeUon. The fontanelles are usually closed by the growth and extension of the bones which surround them, but sometimes they are the sites of separate ossific centres which develop into Wormian bones. The posterior and lateral fontanelles are obhterated within a month or two after birth, but the anterior is not completely closed until the first half of the second year ; sometimes it remains open beyond the second year, a condition which is usually due to malnutrition in rickets. A knowledge of the shape and position of the fontanelles is of service to the accoucheur in enabling mm to determine which part of the foetal head is presenting during parturition. ihe small size of the face at birth is mainly accounted for by the rudimentary condition of the jaws, the non-eruption of the teeth, and the'small size of the