183 VERTEBRA General Chabactees of a Vertebra A tvBical vertebra consists of two essential parts-viz. an anterior .Payment the body or centrum (corpus vertebra), and a posterior part the t^ZPLhLouI vevtehv^); these enclose a foramen, the spinal ov vertebral 7Zien tvlZn verteSe . The neural arch consists of a ^^v: oi pedicles ZdTvToUamince, and supports seven processes-vi^^. four arUcular (zyg- apoph/seS, two transverse (processus transversi), and one spinous (processus '^^met the vertebrae are articulated mth each other the bodies form a .trnr;cfnniar for the support of the head and trunk, and the spmal foramma oonstS^ute a caLl ^^^^^^^ of the spinal cord, wliilst between every S?of ve?tS a^^^^ intervertebral foramma (foramina rntervertebralia), one on either side, for the transmission of the spmal nerves and vessels Each of these constituent parts must now be considered. The body or centrum is the largest part of a vertebra and is more or less cvUndricS L shape. Its upper and lower surfaces are flattened and rough, aS Jve atUchmLt to the intervertebral fibro-cartilages, ^nd each presents a rill around its circumference. In front, it is convex from side to side and coi^ve from above dotards. Behind, it is flat from above doxswards aM sUgbtiy concave from side to side. Its anterior surface presents a fevv smaU apertures, for the passage of nutrient vessels ; on the posterior ir^i^lr" \;Se!"':; ^O. 248.-Sagittal section of a h,nibar vei-tebra. occasionally more than one, for the exit of veins from the body of the vertebra—the vence basis vertebrae. The pedicles are two short, thick processes of bone, which project ba,ck- wards, one on either side, from the upper part of the body, at the junction of its posterior and lateral surfaces. The concavities peSesTrt named t\ie intervertebral notches; and when the vertebrae are articulated, the notches of each contiguous pair of bones form the %nter- vertebral foramina, already referred to. , , , j j • j„ t^^^ The laminae are two broad plates directed backwards and inwards from the pedicles. They fuse in the middle hne posteriorly, and so complete the posterior boundary of the vertebral foramen." Their upper borders and the lower parts of their anterior surfaces are rough for the attachment of the ligamenta subflava. j r ^ The spinous process is directed backwards and downwards trom tne junction of the laminae, and serves for the attachment of muscles and ligaments. The articular processes, two superior and two inferior, sprmg trom tne junction of the pedicles and laminae. The superior project upwards and their articular surfaces are directed more or less backwards ; the mtenoi project downwards, and their surfaces look more or less forwards. The transverse processes, two in number, project one at either side irom the point where the lamina joins the pedicle, between the superior and interior articular processes. They serve for the attachment of muscles and ligaments. Structure of a vertebra (fig. 248).—The body is composed of cancellous tissue, covered by a thin coating of compact bone ; the latter is perforated by numerous orifices, some of large size, for the passage of vessels ; the interior of the bone is traversed by one or two large canals, for the reception of vems, which converge towards a single large, irregular aperture, or several small apertures, at the posterior part of the body. The arch and processes projecting from it have a thick covering of compact tissue.