47 NERVOUS TISSUE Fig. 62.—A small ner- vous branch from the sympathetic of a mam- mal. oridn but this has been experimentally proved by Halliburton and Mott not to be the case,. °he proliferated nuclei in tlie peripheral portions taking part merely m the formation of the so-called scaffolding along which the new axons pass. Non-medullaled Jibres.-Uost of the fibres of the sympathetic system, and some of the cerebro-spinal, consist of the grey or gelatinous nerve-fibres—/iftrcs 0/ Remak 62). Each of these consists of a central core or axis cyhiider enclosed in a nucleated sheatli which tends to spUt into fibrillse, and is probably of the nature of neurokeratin. In external appearance the non-medullated ncrve-hbrcs are semi-transparent and grey or yellowish-grey. The individual fibres vary in size, generally averaging about half the size of the meduUatM hbres. Development of nerve cells and fibres.—The nerve-cells are developed fi-om certain of the cells which hne the neural canal or form the neural crest of the embryo (see section on Embryology). Some of these cells assume a rounded form and are termed neuroblasts, and from each neuroblast there grows out a process, the axis-cylinder process or axon, and subsequently the branchmg processes or deudrons. The axis cylinders, at first naked, acquire then: inedullary sheaths, possibly by some metamorphosis of their outer layers. The neurilemma is thought to be derived from mesodermal cells which become flattened and wrapped round the fibre, the cement substance at their apposed ends forming the material which stains with silver nitrate at the nodes of Eanvier. Nerve-cells in the sympathetic and peripheral ganglia take their origin from small collections of neuroblasts, which are split off from the rudimentary spinal gangUa. Cells which are, originally, similar to neuroblasts seem to give rise to neurogUa cells, numerous processes sprouting from the cell to form the neuroghal fibres. The nervous structures are divided into two great systems — viz. the central, comprising the brain and spinal cord ; and the peripheral, consisting of the nerves connected with them. All these structures require separate consideration; they are composed of the two kinds of nervous tissue above described, intermingled in various proportions, and having, in some parts, a very intricate arrangement. The brain and spinal cord form the central system. In the brain the grey nervous matter is found on the surface, forming the convolutions of the cerebrum, and the lamina) of the cerebellum; in the interior it is collected into large and distinct masses or gangU- omc bodies, such as the corpus striatum, thalamus, and corpora quadrigemina; or is intermingled inti- mately with the white as in the pons Varolii and the floor of the fourth ventricle. In the spinal cord the grey matter is accumulated in the centre and the white matter on the periphery. The special arrangement and distribution of the grey and white matter m the central nervous system arc described with the anatomy of the nervous system. The nerves are round or flattened cords, formed of the nerve-fibres already described. They are connected at one end with the central nervous system or with the ganglia, and are distributed at the other end to the various textures of the body ; they are subdivided into two great classes—the cerebrospinal nerves, which proceed directly from the brain and spinal cord, and the sympathetic nerves, which proceed from the ganglia of the sympathetic. The cerebro-spinal nerves consist of numerous nerve-fibres collected together and enclosed in membranous sheaths (fig. 63). A small bundle of fibres, enclosed in a tubular sheath, is called 11 funiculus ; if the nerve is of small size, it may consist only of a single funiculus ; but if large, the funiculi are collected together into larger bundles or fasciculi, which are bound together in a common membranous investment. In structure, the common membranous investment, or sheath of the whole nerve {epineurium), as well as the septa given off from it, to separate the fascicuU, a. Two meduUatcd nerve-libres among a number of grey nerve- fibres, b.