OVARIAN, INFERIOR PHRENIC, AND LUMBAR ARTERIES 695 The ovarian arteries (aa. ovaricse) are the corresponding arteries in the female to tlie spermatic in the male. They supply the ovaries, are shorter than the spermatic, and do not pass out of the abdommal cavity. The oric^in and course of the first part of each artery are the same as those of the spermatic, but on arriving at the margin of the pelvis the ovarian artery passes inwards, between the two layers of the broad ligament of the uterus, to be distributed to the ovary. Small branches are given to the ureter and the Fallopian tube ; and one passes on to the side of the uterus, and anastomoses with the uterme artery. Other offsets are contmued along the round ligament, through the ingumal canal, to the integument of the labium and gi-oin. • i-- , -j At an early period of foetal life, when the testes or ovaries he by the side of the vertebral column, below the kichieys, the spermatic or ovarian arteries are short; but as these organs descend into the scrotum or pelvis, the arteries become gradually lengthened. Inferior Phrenic Arteries (fig. 602) The inferior phrenic arteries (aa. phrenicai inferiores) are t^yo small vessels, which present much variety in their origin. They may arise sepa- rately from the front of the aorta, immediately above the coeliac axis, or by a common trunk, which may spring either from the aorta or from the coeliac axis. Sometimes one is derived from the aorta, and the other from one of the renal arteries. In only one out of thirty-six cases examined did these arteries arise as two separate vessels from the aorta. They diverge from one another across the crura of the Diaphragm, and then pass obHquely upwards and outwards upon its under surface. The left phrenic passes behind the oesophagus, and runs forwards on the left side of the oesophageal opening. The right phrenic passes behind the inferior vena cava, and ascends along the right side of the apertui-e which transmits that vein. Near the back part of the central tendon each vessel divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch runs forwards, supplying the Diaphragm, and anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the musculo-phrenic and comes nervi phrenici branches of the internal mammary. The external branch passes towards the side of the thorax, and anastomoses with the lower intercostal arteries, and with the musculo-phrenic. The internal branch of the right phrenic gives off a few vessels to the inferior vena cava ; and the left one, some branches to the oesophagus. Each vessel also sends glandular branches to the suprarenal gland of its own side. The spleen and the liver also receive a few branches from the left and right vessels respectively. Ltijibar Arteries The lumbar arteries (aa. lumbales) are in series with the intercostals. They are usually four in number on either side, and arise from the back part of the aorta, opposite the bodies of the upper four lumbar vertebrae. A fifth pair, small in size, is occasionally present : it arises from the middle sacral artery. They run outwards and backwards on the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, behind the sympathetic cord, to the intervals between the adjacent transverse processes, and are then contmued into the abdominal wall. The arteries of the right side pass beliind the inferior vena cava, and the upper two on each side run behind the corresponding crus of the Diaphragm. The arteries of both sides pass beneath the tendinous arches which give origin to the Psoas magnus, and are then continued behind this muscle and the lumbar plexus. They now cross the Quadratus lumborum, the upper three arteries running behind, the last usually in front of the muscle. At the outer border of the Quadratus lumborum they pierce the posterior aponeurosis of the Trans- versahs abdominis and are carried forwards between this muscle and the Internal obhque. They anastomose with the lower intercostals, the subcostal, the iUo-lumbar, the deep ckcumflex iliac, and the deep epigastric arteries. Branches.—^In the interval between the adjacent transverse processes each lumbar artery gives oS a dorsal branch (ramus dorsaUs) which is continued backwards between