13 EPITHELIUM Fig. 11.—Spheroidal epithel- ium. Magnified 250 times. network, which gives to the cell the appearance of granulation. This kind of epithelium forms the lining of the aii'-sacs of the lungs. The endothelium, which covers the serous membranes, and which lines the heai-t, blood-vessels, lymphatics, and the anterior chamber of the eye, is also of the pavement type, being composed of a single layer of flattened trans- parent squamous cells, joined edge to edge in such a manner as to form a membrane of cells. The base- ment membrane, which supports the epithelial cells, is composed of a homogeneous material. In some instances it has a number of apertures, and is then spoken of as a fenestrated membrane, whilst in other cases it is formed of flattened cells. The columnar or cylindrical epithelium (fig. 9) is formed of cylindrical or rod-shaped cells set together so as to form a complete layer, resembling, when viewed in profile, a palisade. The cells have a prismatic figure, flattened froni mutual pressure, and are set upright on the surface on which they are supported. Their protoplasm is always more or less reticulated, and fine longitudinal striee may be seen in it; the nucleus of each is oval in shape and contains an intranuclear network. Fro. 12.—CUiated epitheHum from the human trachea. Mi i\-Superficial ciliated cells ^Deeper non-ciliated cells — I'fisement membrane \ 'lifer layer of elastic fibres Inner layer of elastic fibres ■—Basal knobs The outer free border of each of these cells is distinctly marked off from the rest of the protoplasm, and contains well marked vertical striations. Tliis form of epithelium covers the mucous membrane of nearly the whole gastro-intestinal tract and its glands, the greater part of the urethra, the vas deferens, the prostate, Cowper's glands. Bar- cell (semidiagrammatic) ^j^^j.^,^ ^^^^^^^^ ^ p^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ mv.cou& membrane. In a modified form it also covers the ovary. Gollet or chalice cells are modified columnar cells. The goblet cell appears to be formed by an alteration in shape of a columnar cell (ciliated or otherwise) consequent on the formation of granules, which consist of a substance called mucigen, in the interior of the cell. This distends the upper part of the cell, while the nucleus is pressed down towards its deep part, until the cell bursts and the mucus is discharged on to the surface of the mucous membrane (fig. 10), the cell then assuming the shape of an open cup or chalice. The glandular or spheroidal epithelium (fig. 11) is composed of spheroidal or polyhedral cells, but the cells may be columnar or cubical in shape in some situations. As in other forms of epithelial cells, the protoplasm is a fine reticulum, which gives to the cells the appearance of gi'anulation. Glandular cells are found in the terminal recesses of secreting glands, and the protoplasm of the cells usually contains the materials which the cells secrete. Ciliated epithelium (fig. 12) generally inclines to the columnar shape. It is distinguished by the presence of minute processes, like hairs or eyelashes (cilia)