476 MYOLOGY irritationof the muscle or of the nerves which supply it, and may occur in acute glandular enlargement, cellulitis of the neck, myositis of the muscle, or cervical carie^ It mav however, be permanent, and is then most often due to injury to the muscle durmg birth' especially in breech presentations ; rupture of the muscle and subsequent cicatriciai contraction takmg place. In these cases, division of the muscle is often necessary to effect a cure, and this may be done either subcutaneously or through an open wound Tlie subcutaneous method is thus performed : the external jugular Ld anterior jugular veins having been, if possible, dehned, a tenotomy knife is introduced close to the margin of one tendon of origm of the muscle, about half an inch above the clavicle, and the teno- tome passed fiat behmd the tendon and then turned forwards, and the tendon divided from behind forwards while the muscle is put well upon the stretch by an assistant. Th,- othof tendon IS then divided m a similar manner. In dividing the clavicular oriem it is always desirable to introduce the tenotome along the posterior border, in order to avoid the external jugular vein. The open method is, however, much to be preferred, as bemg the more effectual and the less dangerous, if precautions are taken to keep the wound aseptic. Ihe tendons of origin are freely exposed by a horizontal incision across the root of the neck and carefully divided ; any tense bands of fascia which can be felt should also be divided. The wound is now sutured and dressed, and the head fixed in as straight a position as possible. ^ There is also a condition coming on m adult Ufe (spasmodic torticollis), which is a ver\ distressing form of functional nervous disease. It begins with tonic or clonic spasm of one of the Sterno-mastoids, which is soon followed by spasm of the Trapezius, particularly its clavicular portion. The Splenius of the opposite side, the Scaleni, Complexi, and Itachelo-mastoids, may all become involved in turn, with secondary contracture of the deep cervical fascia. Operation m these cases often fails to give satisfactory results. Tenotomy of the affected muscles or section of the nerves supplying them may afford temporary relief, but the spasm often returns when the cut nerves or muscles rejom. II. Infrahyoid Region (figs. 490, 491) Sterno-hyoid. Thyro-hyoid. Sterno-thyroid. Omo-hyoid. The Sterno-hyoid (m. sternoliyoideus) is a thin, narrow, riband-Uke muscle, which arises from the posterior surface of the inner extremity of the clavicle, the posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, and the upper and posterior part of the manubrium sterni; passing upwards and inwards, it is inserted, by short, tendmous fibres, into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone. Below, this muscle is separated from its fellow by a considerable interval; but the two muscles come into contact with one another in the middle of their course, and from this upwards, lie side by side. It sometimes presents, immediately above its origin, a transverse tendinous intersection, hke those in the Rectus abdominis. The Sterno-thyroid (m. sternothjrreoideus) is shorter and wider than the preceding muscle, beneath which it is situated. It arises from the posterior surface of the manubrium sterni, below the origin of the Sterno-hyoid, aad from the edge of the cartilage of the fii-st rib, and sometimes of the second rib also ; and is inserted into the obhque line on the side of the ala of the thyroid cartilage. This muscle is in close contact with its feUow at tlie loMer part of the neck ; and is occasionally traversed by a transverse or oblique tendinous intersection Uke those in the Rectus abdominis. The Thyro-hyoid (m. thyreohyoideus) is a small, quadrilateral muscle appearing like a continuation of the Sterno-thyroid. It arises from the oblique line on the side of the tbjToid cartilage, and passes vertically upwjirds to be inserted into the lower border of the body and greater cornu of the hyoid bone. The Omo-hyoid (m. omohyoideus) passes across the side of the neck, from the scapula to the hyoid bone. It consists of two fleshy bellies united by a central tendon. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, and occasionally from the transverse ligament w^hich crosses the suprascapular notch, its extent of attachment to the scapula varying from a few lines to an inch. From this origin, the posterior belly forms a flat, narrow fasciculus, which inclines forwards and slightly upM-ards across the lower part of the neck, being bound dowTi to the clavicle by a fibrous expansion ; it then passes behind the Sterno-mastoid muscle, becomes tendinous and changes its direction, forming an obtuse angle. It terminates in the anterior belly, -H hich