INTERMAXILLARY REGION 467 t the middle line ; the outer band (m. incisivus superior) arises from the alveolar border of the maxilla, opposite the lateral incisor tooth, and arching outwards ■ is continuous at the angle of the mouth with the other muscles inserted into ■ this part; the inner band (to. nasolahialis) connects the upper lip to the back , of the septum of the nose. The interval between tlie two inner bands corre- i sponds with the depression, called the phiUrum, seen on the lip beneath the ' septum of the nose. The additional fibres for tlie lower lip constitute a slip (m. incisimis inferior) on either side of the middle line which arises from the mandible, external to the Levator labii inferioris, and arches outwards to the angle of the mouth, to join the Buccinator and the other muscles attaclied to tliis part. , . c The Buccinator (fig. 494) is a broad, thin muscle, quadrilateral m form, occupying the interval between the jaws at the side of the face. It arises from the outer surfaces of the alveolar processes of the upper and lower jaws, corre- sponding to the three molar teeth ; and behind, from the anterior border of the pterygo-mandibular ligament which separates it from the Superior constrictor of the pharynx. The fibres converge towards the angle of the mouth, where the central fibres intersect each other, those from below being continuous with the upper segment of the Orbicularis oris, and those from above with the inferior segment; the uppermost and lowermost fibres continue forward uninterruptedly into the corresponding lip without decussation. Relations.—The Buccinator is in relation by its superficial surface, behiad, with a large mass of fat, which separates it from the ramus of the lower jaw, from the Masseter, and from a small portion of the Temporal, and which has been named the suctorial pad, because it is supposed to assist in the act of sucldng. In front the superficial sm-face of the Buccinator is in relation with the Zygomatici, Risorius, Levator anguli oris, Depressor angiili oris, and Stenson's duct which pierces it opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw ; the facial artery and vein cross it from below upwards ; it is also crossed by the branches of the facial and buccal nerves. The deep surface is in relation with the buccal glands and mucous membrane of the mouth. The pterygo-mandibular ligament is a tendinous band, derived from the deep cervical fascia and attached by one extremity to the hamular process of the mternal pterygoid plate, and by the other to the posterior extremity of the internal oblique line of the mandible. Its inner surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth. Its outer surface is separated from the ramus of the mandible by a quantity of adipose tissue. Its posterior border gives attachment to the Superior constrictor of the pharynx ; its anterior border, to the fibres of the Buccinator (see fig. 494). The Risorius consists of a narrow bundle of fibres, which arises in tlie fascia over the Masseter muscle and, passing horizontally for\^'ards, is inserted into the skin at the angle of the mouth (fig. 486). It is placed superficial to the Platysma, and is broadest at its outer extremity. This muscle varies much in its size and form. Nerves.—The muscles in this group are all supplied by the facial nerve. Actions.—The Orbicularis oris in its ordinary action produces the direct closure of the hps ; by its deep fibres, assisted by the obhque ones, it closely applies the hps to the alveolar arch. The superficial part, consisting principally of the decussating fibres, brings the hps together and also protrudes them forwards. The Buccinators contract and compress the cheeks, so that, during the process of mastication, the food is kept under the immediate pressure of the teeth. When the cheeks have been previously distended with air, the Buccinator muscles expel it from between the hps, as in blowing a trumpet. Hence the name ijiuccina, a trumpet). The Risorius retracts the angles of the mouth, and produces the unpleasant expression which is sometimes seen in tetanus, and is known as ' risus sardonicus.' IX. Temporo-mandibulab Region Masseter. Temporal. Masseteric fascia.—Covering the Masseter muscle, and firmly connected with it, is a strong layer of fascia, derived from the deep cervical fascia. Above, this fascia is attached to the lower border of the zygoma, and behind it-invests the parotid gland, constituting the parotid fascia. H H 2/