482 MYOLOGY and especially with the Transverse lingiialis. The fourth layer of muscular fibres of the tongue consists partly of extrinsic fibres derived from the Stylo-glossus, and partly of intrinsic fibres, the Inferior lingualis. At the sides of the under surface of the organ arc some fibres derived from the Stylo-glossus ; as this muscle rinis forwards at the side of the tongue, it gives off fibres which pass forwards and inwards between the fibres of the Hyo-glossus and form an inferior oblique stratum which joins in front with the anterior fibres of the Inferior linguahs. The Inferior lingualis is a longitudinal band, situated on the under surface of the tongue, and extending from the base to the apex of the organ. Behind, some of its fibres are connected with the body of the hyoid bone. It lies between the Hyo-glossus and the 6enio-hyo-glossus ; in front of the Hyo-glossus it comes into relation with the Stylo-glossus, mth the fibres of wliich it blends. It is in relation by its under surface with the ranine artery. Applied Anatomy.—The fibrous septum which exists between the two halves of tlie tongue is very complete, so that the anastomosis between the two hugual arteries is not very free. This is a point of considerable importance in connection with removal of one-half of the tongue for cancer, an operation which is now frequently resorted to when the disease is strictly confined to one side of the organ. If the mucous membrane be divided longi- tuduially exactly in the middle line, the tongue can be split into halves along the median raphe, without any appreciable haemorrhage, and the diseased half can then be removed. Actions.—The movements of the tongue, although numerous and comphcated, nray be understood by carefully considering the direction of the fibres of its muscles. The Genio-hyo-glossi, by means of their posterior fibres, draw the base of the tongue forwards, so as to protrude the apex from the mouth. The anterior fibres draw the tongue back into the mouth. The whole of these two muscles acting along the middle fine of the tongue draw it downwardjs, so as to make it concave from side to side, forming a channel along which fluids may pass towards the pharynx, as in suclcing. The Hyo-glossi depress the tongue, and draw down its sides, so as to render it convex from side to side. The Stylo- glossi draw the tongue upwards and backwards. The Palato-glossi draw the base of the tongue upwards. The intrinsic muscles are mainly concerned in alteriiig the shape of the tongue, whereby it becomes shortened, narrowed from side to side, or curved in different directions ; thus, the Superior and Inferior Uuguales tend to shorten the tongue, but the former, in addition, turn the tip and sides upwards so as to render the dorsum concave, while the latter pull the tip downwards and cause the dorsum to become convex. The Transverse linguahs narrows and elongates the tongue, and the Vertical linguaUs flattens and broadens it. The complex arrangement of the muscular fibres of the tongue, and the various direc- tions in which they run, give to tliis organ the power of assuimug the various forms necessary for the enunciation of the different consonantal sounds ; and Macalister states ' there is reason to believe that the musculature of the tongue varies in different races owing to the hereditary practice and habitual use of certain motions required for enunciating the several vernacular languages. V. Pharyngeal Region (fig. 494) Inferior constrictor. Superior constrictor. Middle constrictor. Stylo-pharyngeus. Palato-pharyngeus. \ ^^^^^ section.) Salpingo-pharyngeus. I The Inferior constrictor (ra. constrictor pharyngis inferior), the thickest of the three constrictors, arises from the sides of the cricoid and thyroid carti- lages. To the cricoid cartilage it is attached in the interval between the Crico- thyroid muscle in front, and the articular facet for the mfenor cornu of the thyroid cartilage behind. To the thyroid cartilage it is attached to the obl.qu.. line on the side of the ala, to the cartilaginous surface behind 't- n^^'^; far as its posterior border, and to the inferior cornu. In-om t \cse attachme s the fibres spread backwards and inwards, to be inserted xnto the l^brous i aphe in the posterior median line of (be pharynx. The inferior fibres are l^orizontol, and continuous with the circular fibres of the CBSophagus ; the rest ascenrt, increasing hi obliquity, and overlap the Middle constrictor.