1047 THE EAR tlie only means of escape for the products is by rupture of the tympanic membrane, which iisually occurs spontaneously and is followed by a free discharge of pus and rehef to the acute pain which exists in these cases. Should the swelling of the walls of the Eustachian tube then subside, the normal ch-ainageof the cavity will be established and the perforation in the drum will heal, but if not—as is often the case because the opening of the tube may be occluded by adenoid growths m the naso-pharynx or other cause—the pus will continue to accumulate in the middle ear and will overflow through the perforation as a chronic otorrhcea. In the course of time the disease spreads beyond the mucous membrane to the walls of the tympanic cavity, to the ossicles, or to the bone of the mastoid process, and when this has occurred the condition Ls incurable except by the removal of the carious bone. Further severe intracranial complications are at this time often produced owing to purulent material bemg retamed ; thus an abscess may form between the bone and dura mater, (a) about the roof of the tympanum, and immediately beneath the dura covermg the temporal lobe, or (6) between the deep aspect of the mastoid process and the sigmoid bend of the lateral smus, possibly extendmg widely and surrounding the smus. In this latter tyioe of case, thrombosis of the lateral smus readily occurs, and the clot being also infected tends to dismtegrate and be carried into the general cu-culation, particles often becommg lodged m the capillaries of the lungs and setting up abscesses therem. Pyaimia from lateral sinus thrombosis is probably more common than from any other focus of origin. In addition, bone disease of the tympanum or mastoid antrum may be associated with severe and fatal septic meningitis, or with the formation of abscess in the encephalon, the most common sites being the temporal lobe and the hemisphere of the cerebellum. Less serious, but more common, is the formation of a subperiosteal mastoid abscess with great swellmg behmd the ear, and protrusion outwards of the auricle ; such a condition demands an early incision dow through all the structures, including the periosteum, over the whole length of the mastoid process, and then it will frequently be foimd that the underlying bone is carious or that a track leads through the bone into the mastoid antrum. In such conditions extensive operations for the removal of bone are often required. In many cases of chronic bone disease in the tympanic cavity the facial nerve becomes exposed as it hes m the aqueduct of Fallopius, and an mfiammatory process is set up in the nerve, leading to facial paralysis of the infranuclear type (see page 927). In other cases localised areas of bone disease, most often in the region of the attic, form the points from which aural polypi grow, and the ear polypus, lilce the nasal polypus, must be considered to have originated in a spot of carious bone, the removal of which is necessary if a cure is to be established. Fractm-es of the middle fossa of the base of the skull almost invariably involve the tympanic roof, and are accompanied by a rupture of the drum or fracture through the roof of the bony meatus. They are associated with profuse continued bleeding from the ear, and, if the dura has also been lacerated, with discharge of copious amomits of cerebro-spinal fluid. Here the avoidance of infection from the outside is of the vitmost importance, as should it occur septic meningitis must inevitably follow with a fatal issue. Of the non-suppurative conditions which affect the middle ear, chronic catarrh, leading to sclerosis of the whole of the tympanic contents, is again due to spread of inflammation from some nasal or pharyngeal condition. The progress is very slow, but leads to ever- increasing deafness—this deafness in the first instance is m no way connected with any defect in the auditory nerve, and this can be shown by the fact that the hearmg by bone conduction over the mastoid process remains normal. In chronic non-suppurative otitis, media treatment must be especially directed towards placing the nose and pharynx in a healthy condition; when this has been accomplished, the aural condition often improves of itself ; if not, however, improvement may be induced by forcing air up the Eustachian tube by means of the Politzer bag, or directly into the orifice of the tube by means of the Eustachian catheter. Internal Ear, or Labyrinth The internal ear (auris interna) is the essential part of the organ of hearing, receiving the ultimate distribution of the auditory nerve. It is called the labyrinth, from the complexity of its shape, and consists of two parts : the osseous labyrinth, a series of cavities channelled out of tlie substance of the petrous bone, and the memhranous labyrinth, the latter being contained within the former. The Osseous Labyrinth (fig. 863) The osseous labyrinth (labyrinthus osseus) consists of three parts : the vestibule, semicircular canals, and cochlea. These are cavities hollowed out of the substance of the bone, and Hned by periosteum ; they contain a clear fluid, the perilymph, in which the membranous labyiinth is situated. The vestibule (vestibulum) is the central part of the internal ear, and is situated on the inner side of the tympanum, behind the cochlea, and in