671 BRACHIAL ARTERY through the quaclraugular space bounded by the Teres major and minor, the scapuhir head of the Triceps and the humerus. It winds round the neck of the humerus and is distributed to the Deltoid muscle and shoulder-joint, anastomosing with the anterior circumflex and acromio-thoracic arteries, and with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. 7. The anterior circumflex (a. circumflexa humeri anterior) (fig. 595), con- siderably smaller than the preceding, arises nearly opposite it, from the outer side of the axillary artery. It passes horizontally outwards, beneath the Coraco- brachialis and short head of the Biceps, lying upon the fore part of the neck of the humerus. On reaching the bicipital groove, it gives off an ascending branch which ascends along the groove to supply the head of the liumerus and the shoulder-joint. The trunk of the vessel is then continued outwards beneath the Deltoid, which it supplies, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex artery. Pecidiarities.—The branches of the axillary artery vary considerably in different subjects. Occasionally the subscapular, oiroumflex, and profunda arteries arise from a com- mon trunk, and when this occurs the branches of the brachial plexus surroimd this trunk instead of the maiavessel. Sometimes the axillary artery divides into the radial and ulnar arteries, and occasionally it gives origin to the anterior inter- osseous artery of the forearm. Fio. 596.—The brachial artery. Internal cutaneous nerve Miisciilo-spiral nerve Superior prof unda In ferior inofunda Anastomotica magna Brachial Artery (fig. 596) The Brachial artery (a. brachii) commences at the lower margin of the tendon of the Teres major, and, passing down the inner and anterior aspect of the arm, terminates about half an inch below the bend of the elbow, where it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. At first the brachial artery lies internal to the liumerus ; but as it runs down the arm it gradually gets in front of the bone, and at the bend of the elbow it lies midway between the two condyles. Relations. — The artery is superficial throughout its entire extent, being covered, in front, by the integument and the superficial and deep fascias; the bicipital fascia lies in front of it opposite the elbow and separates it from the vena mediana cubiti; the median nerve crosses it from without inwards opposite the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis. Behind, it is separated from the long head of the Triceps by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. It then lies upon the inner head of the Triceps, next upon the insertion of the Coraco- brachialis, and lastly on the Brachialis anticus. By its outer side, it is in relation with the commencement of the median nerve, and the Coraco-brachialis and Biceps,