OSTEOLOGY 268 below, by the external border of the orbital surface of the maxilla and the orbital process of the palate bone ; externally, by a small part of the malar bone * : internally, it joins at right angles with tlie pterygo-maxLUary fissure. Through the sphcno-maxiUary fissure the orbit communicates with the temporal, zygomatic, and spheno-maxillary fossae ; the fissure transmits the superior maxillary nerve and its temporo-malar branch, the infra-orbital vessels, the ascending branches from Meckel's ganglion, and a vein which connects the ophthalmic vein with the pterygoid venous plexus. The pterygo-maxillary fissure is vertical, and descends at right angles from the inner extremity of the preceding ; it is a triangular interval, formed by the divergence of the maxilla from the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. It connects the spheno-maxillary fossa with the zygomatic fossa, and transmits the terminal part of the internal maxillary artery. The spheno-maxillary fossa (fossa pterygo-palatina) is a small, tri- angular space situated at the angle of junction of the spheno-maxillary and pterygo-maxillary fissures, and placed beneath the apex of the orbit. It is bounded above by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid and by the orbital process of the palate bone ; in front, by the zygomatic surface of the maxilla ; behind, by the base of the pterygoid process and lower part of the anterior surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid ; internallj', by the vertical plate of the palate bone with its orbital and sphenoidal processes. This fossa communicates with the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, ^vith the nasal cavitj' by the spheno-palatine foramen, and -^^dth the zygomatic fossa by the pterygo-maxillary fissure. Five foramina open into it. Of these, tliree are on the posterior wall, viz. : the foramen rotundum, the Vidian canal, and the pterygo-palatine canal, from without downwards and inwards. On the inner wall is the spheno-palatine foramen, and beloM' is the superior orifice of the posterior palatine canal. The fossa contains the superior maxillary nerve and Meckel's ganglion, and the termination of the internal maxillary artery. The Skuxl feom Behind (norma occipitalis) When viewed from behind the cranium presents a more or less circular outline. In the middle line is the posterior part of the sagittal suture con- necting the parietal bones; extending downwards and outwards from the hinder end of the sagittal suture is the deeply serrated lambdoid suture joioing the parietals to the occipital and continuous below with the parieto-mastoid and occipito-mastoid sutures; it frequently contains one or more Wormian bones. Near the middle of the squama occipitalis is the external occipital protuber- ance or inion, and extending outwards from it on either side is the superior curved line (linea nuchas superior), and above this the faintly marked linea suprema. The part of the squama above the inion and linese supreme is named the planum occipitale, and is covered by the Occipito-frontalis muscle : the part below is termed the planum nuchale, and is divided by a mesial ridge which runs downwards and forw ards from the inion to the foramen magnum ; this ridge gives attachment to the ligamentum nuchas. The muscles attached to the planum nuchale are enumerated on page 215. Below and m front are the mastoid processes, convex externally and grooved internally by the digastric foss£e. In or near the occipito-mastoid suture is the mastoid foramen for the passage of the mastoid emissary vein. The Skull from the Feont (norma frontalis) When viewed from the front (fig. 341) the skull exhibits a somewhat oval outline, limited above by the frontal bone, below by the body of the mandible, and laterally by the malar bones and the mandibular rami, ihe upper part, formed by the vertical plate of the frontal, is smooth and convex ; the lower part, made up of the bones of the face, is irregular, and is excaval^ed laterally by the orbital cavities, and presents in the middle fine the anterior nasal aperture leading to the cavity of the nose, and below tins the transverse slit between the upper and lower dental arcades. Above, the frontal eminences * Occasionally the superior maxillary bone and the sphenoid articulate with each other at the anterior extremity of this fissure ; the malar is then excluded from it.