1066 SPLANCHNOLOGY the false vocal cords, and between these and the true vocal cords are the ventricles of the larynx. Tlie portion below the true vocal cords is at first of an elliptical form, but lower down it widens out, assumes a circular form, and is continuous with the tube of the trachea. The superior aperHire of the larynx (aditus laryngis) (fig. 881) is a triangular or cordiform opening, \Yide in front, narrow beliind, and sloping obliquelj^ downwards and backwards. It is bounded, in front, by the epiglottis ; behind, by the apices of tlie arytenoid cartilages and the cornicula larjmgis ; and on either side, by a fold of mucous membrane, enclosing ligamentous and muscular fibres, stretched between the side of the epiglottis and the apex of the arytenoid cartilage ; tliis is the aryteno-epiglottic fold (plica aryepiglottica), on the margin of which the cuneiform cartilage forms a more or less distinct whitish prominence. The superior or false vocal cords (plicae ventriculares), so called because they are not directly concerned in the production of the voice, are two thick folds of mucous membrane, each enclosing a narrow band of fibrous tissue, the superior ihyro-arytenoid ligament. This is attached in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage immediately below the attachment of the epiglottis, and behind to the antero-external surface of the arytenoid cartilage, a short distance above the vocal process. The lower border of this ligament, enclosed in mucous membrane, forms a free crescentic margin, which constitutes the upper boundary of the ventricle of the larynx. The inferior or true vocal cords (plicae vocales), so called from their being concerned in the production of sound, are two strong bands, named the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments. Each ligament consists of a band of yellow elastic tissue, attached in front to the depression between the two alse of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the vocal process of the base of the arytenoid. Its lower border is continuous Avith the thin lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane. Its upper border forms the lower boundary of the ventricle of the larynx. Externally the Thyro-arytenoideus muscle lies parallel mth it. It is covered internally by mucous membrane, which is extremely thin, and closely adherent to its surface. The ventricle of the larynx or laryngeal sinus (ventriculus laryngis) is an oblong fossa, situated between the superior and inferior vocal cords on either side, and extending nearly their entire length. The fossa is bounded, above, by the free crescentic edge of the false vocal cord ; below by the straight margin of the true vocal cord ; externally, by the mucous membrane covering the corresponding Thyro-arytenoideus muscle. The anterior part of the ventricle leads up by a narrow opening into a ceecal pouch of mucous membrane of variable size, called the laryngeal saccule. The laryngeal saccule (appendix ventriculi laryngis) is a membranous sac, placed between the superior vocal cord and the inner surface of the tlijTOid cartnage, occasionaUy extending as far as its upper border or even higher ; it is conical in form, and curved slightly backwards. On the surface of its mucous membrane are the openings of sixty or seventy mucous glands, wliicli are lodged in the submucous areolar tissue. This sac is enclosed in a fibrous capsule, continuous below with the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament : its laryngeal surface is covered by a fe^- delicate muscular fasciculi whicli arise from the apex of the arytenoid cartilage and become lost in the fold of mucous membrane extending between the arytenoid cartilage and the side ot tne epiglottis (they were named by Hilton the compressor saccuh Jaryngrs) ; win e its exterior is covered by the Thyi-o-arytenoideus and Th^To-epiglottidci s muscles. These muscles compress the laryngeal saccule, and express tne secretion it contains upon the vocal cords to lubricate their surfaces. The rima qlottidis is the elongated fissure or chink between the "ifP"oi ?r true vocal cords in front, and the bases and vocal processes of ^he ary cm oia cartilages beliind. It is therefore frequently subdivided into a larger antnior inter-ligamentous or vocal portion, the glottis vocabs (Pf» i»tivanienibranace^ wliich measures about tliree-fifths of the length of the and a posterior intcrcartUaginous or rcsjnratory v^^xt, ^bi ane (pars intercartilaginea). Posteriorly it is limited by t'|<-. "?"^«"^^»^ "^^^^^^^ passing between the arytenoid cartilages. The rnna glotlidis ,s t'^, "'^I'Tu e part of the cavity of the larynx, and its level corresponds with the bases ot tne