SPLANCHNOLOGY 1176 organ, or body, by a slight constriction, the neck ; while its left extremity gradually tapers to form tlie tail. It is situated transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen, at the back of the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions. Its length varies from five to six inches, and its weight from two to three and a lialf ounces. Relations (figs. 970, 971, 972).—The head (caput pancreatis) is flattened from before backwards, and is lodged within the curve of the duodenum. Its upper border is in contact with the first part of the duodenum and its lower overlaps the third part ; its right and left borders overlap in front, and insinuate themselves behind, the second and fourth parts of the duodenum respectively. The angle of junction of the lower and left lateral borders forms a prolongation, termed the processus uncinatus. In the groove between the duodenum and the right lateral and lower borders in front are the anasto- mosing superior and inferior pancreatico-duodenal arteries ; the common bile-duct descends behind, along the right border', to its termination in the second part of the duodenum. jRectus muscle Fig. 971.—Transverse section through the middle of the first lumbar vertebra, showing the relations of the pancreas. (Braune.) Eighth costal cartilage y/ Seventh costal cartilage Seventh rih Eighth rib .Ninth rib Tenth rib Abdominal ciorla Dia])hragh TwelfLh rib Eleventh rib Anterior surface.—The greater part of the right half of this surface is in contact with the transverse colon, only areolar tissue intervening. From its upper part the Jieck originates, its right limit being marked by a groove tor the gastro-duodenal artery. The lower part of the right half, below the transverse colon, is covered by peritoneum continuous with the inferior layer of the transverse mesocolon, and is in contact with the coils of the small intestine. The superior mesenteric artery ])asses down in front of the lett half across the processus uncinatus ; the superior mesenteric vein runs upwards on the right side of the artery and, behind the neck, joins Anth the splenic vein to form the portal vein. . . , ,1 • ,4!„^;^^ Posterior surface.—The posterior surface is in relation witli tlie interior vena cava, the renal veins, the right crus of tlie Diaphragm, and tlie aorta. The neck springs from the right upper portion of the front of the Head It is about an inch in length, and is directed at first upwards and forwards and then upwards and to the left to join the body; it is somewhat flattened troiii above downwards and backwards. Its antero-superior surface supports tne