THE EYE 1021 surface, is found to consist of ten layers, named from within outwards as follows : 1. Membrana limitans interna. 2. Layer of nerve-fibres (stratum opticum). 3. Ganglionic layer, consisting of nerve-cells. 4. Inner j^lexiform layer. 5. Inner nuclear layer, or layer of inner granules. 6. Outer plexiform layer. 7. Outer nuclear layer, or layer of outer granules. 8. Membrana limitans externa. 9. Jacob's membrane (layer of rods and cones). 10. Pigmented layer (tapetum nigrum). 1. The membrana limitans interna is the innermost layer, and is in contact with the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous body. It is derived from the supporting framework of the retina, with which it will be described. 2. The layer of nerve-fibres is formed by the expansion of the optic nerve, the fibres of which pass through all the layers of the retina, except the mem- brana Mmitans interna. As the nerve passes through the lamina cribrosa scleras, its fibres lose their medullary sheaths and are continued onwards through the choroid and retina as simple axis cylinders. When these non- medullated fibres reach the internal surface of the retina they radiate from their point of entrance over the sm-face of the retina, grouped in bundles, and in many places arranged in plexuses. Most of the fibres in this layer are centripetal, and are the direct continuations of the axis-cylinder processes of the cells of the next layer, but a few of them are centrifugal and run through this and the next succeeding layer to ramify in the inner molecular and inner nuclear layers, where they terminate in enlarged extremities (fig. 843). The layer of nerve-fibres is thickest near the optic nerve disc, gradually diminishing towards the ora serrata. 3. The ganglionic layer consists of a single layer of large ganglion-cells, except in the macula lutea, where there are several strata. The cells are somewhat flask-shaped; the roimded internal surface of each resting on the preceding layer, and sending off an axon which is prolonged as a nerve-fibre into the fibrous layer. Prom the opposite extremity numerous dendrites extend into the inner plexiform layer, where they branch and form flattened ar- borisations at different levels (fig. 843). The ganglion-cells vary much in size, and the dendrites of the smaller ones as a rule arborise in the inner plexiform layer as soon as they enter it; wloile those of the larger cells ramify close to the inner nuclear layer. 4. The inner plexiform layer is made up of a dense reticulum of minute fibrils, formed by the interlacement of the dendrites of the ganglion-cells with those of the cells of the inner nuclear layer, immediately to be described. Witliin the reticulum formed by these fibrils a few branched spongioblasts are sometimes imbedded. 5. The inner nuclear layer or layer of inner granules is made up of a number of closely packed cells, of which there are three varieties, viz. bipolar cells, horizontal cells and amacrine cells. The bipolar cells are by far the most numerous, and are round or oval in shape, each cell being prolonged into an inner and an outer process. They are divisible into rod-bipolars and cone-bipolars. The inner processes of the 7-od- bipolars run through the inner plexiform layer and arborise around the bocUes of the cells of the ganglionic layer ; their outer processes end in tufts of fibrils around the button-Uke ends of a number of rod-fibres. The mner processes of Fig. 842.—Section of retina. (Magnified.) a. Membrana limitans interna. 5. Layer of nerre-flbres. c. Ganglionic layer. d. Inner plexiform layer, c. Inner nudear layer. /. Outer plexiform layer. g. Outer nuclear layer. Ii. Slembrana limitans externa, i. Layer of rods and cones, k. Pigmented layer, m. Fibres of Miiller.