MEMBRANES AND APPENDAGES OF THE EMBRYO 101 Umhilical Avimon chorion vein Umbilical artery of the stratum compactum persist and are condensed to form a series of septa, which extend from the basal plate through the thickness of the placenta and subdivide it into the lobes or cotyledons seen on the utenne surface of the detached ^^^^The^fcetal and maternal blood currents traverse the placenta, the former passin" through the blood-vessels of the placental vilU and the latter through the material blood sinuses or intervillous spaces (fig. 127). The two currents do not inter- mingle being separated from each other by the delicate walls of the villi. Never- theless' the fcBtal blood is able to absorb, through the thin walls of the vilh, oxygen and nutritive materials from the maternal blood, and give up to the latter its waste products. The blood, so purified, is carried back to the foetus by the umbilical vein. It will thus be seen that the placenta not only estabhshes a mechanical connection between the mother and the foetus, but subserves for the latter the purposes of nutrition, respiration, and excretion. In favour of the view that the placenta possesses certain selective powers may be mentioned the fact that glucose is more plentiful in the maternal than in the foetal blood. It is interesting to note also that the proportion of iron, and of lime and potash, in the foetus is increased during the last months of pregnancy. Further, j27.—Scheme of placental circulation, there is evidence that the maternal leucocytes may migrate into the foetal blood, since leucocytes are much more numerous in the blood of the umbilical vein than in that of the umbilical arteries. The placenta is usually attached near the fundus uteri, and more frequently on the posterior than on the anterior wall of the uterus. It may, how- ever, occupy a lower position and, in rare cases, its site is close to the OS uteri internum, which it may occlude, thus giving rise to the condition known as -placenta frcevia. Separation of the placenta.— After the child is born, the placenta and membranes are expelled from the uterus as the after-hirth. The separation of the placenta from the uterine wall takes place through the stratum spongiosum, and necessarily causes rupture of the uterine vessels. The orifices of the torn vessels are, however, closed by the firm contraction of the uterine muscular fibres, and thus post-partum hcBmorrJiage is prevented. The epithelial lining of the uterus is regenerated by the proliferation and extension of the epithelium which lines the persistent portions of the uterine glands in the unaltered layer of the decidua. The expelled placenta appears as a discoid mass which weighs about a pound, and has a diameter of from six to eight inches. Its average thickness is about an inch and a quarter, but this diminishes rapidly towards the circumference of the disc, which is continuous with the membranes. Its uterine surface is divided by a series of fissures into lobules or cotyledons, the fissures containing the remains of the septa which extended between the maternal and fcetal portions. Most of these septa end in irregular or pointed processes; others, especially those near the edge of the placenta, pass through its thickness and are attached to the chorion. In the early months these septa convey branches of the uterine arteries which open into the maternal sinuses on the surfaces of the septa. The foetal sur- face of the placenta is smooth, being closely invested by the amnion. Seen through the latter, the chorion presents a mottled appearance, consisting of grey, purple. Uterine vein Uterine artery