THE EAR 1053 nerve and has attached to its internal surface a layer of calcareous particles (otoUths). The cavity of the utricle communicates behind with the mem- branous semicircular canals by five orifices. From its anterior wall is given off a small canal, the ductus utriculosaccularis, which opens into the ductus endolymphaticus. • • i r i The saccule (sacculus) is the smaller of tlie two vestibular sacs ; it is globumr in form, and lies in the recessus sphsericus near the opening of the scala vesti- buli of the cochlea. Its anterior part exhibits an oval thickening, the macula acustica saccuU, to which are distributed the saccular filaments of the auditory nerve. Its cavity does not directly communicate with that of the utricle. From the posterior wall is given off a canal, the ductus endolymphaticus ; this duct is joined by the ductus utriculo-saccularis, and then passes along the aquffiductus vestibuli and ends in a blind pouch (saccus endolymphaticus) on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, where it is m contact with the dura mater. From the lower part of the saccule a short tube, the canalis reuniens of Hensen, passes doA\ nwards and outwards to open into the ductus cochlearis near its vestibular extremity (fig. 867). The membranous semicircular canals (ductus semicirculares) (fig. 864) are about one-fourth of the diameter of the osseous canals, but in number, sliape, and general form they are precisely similar, and each presents at one end an ampulla (ampulla membranacea). They open by five orifices into the utricle, one opening being common to the inner end of the superior and the upj)er end of the posterior canal. In the ampuUse the ^^•all is thickened, and projects into the cavity as a fiddle-shaped, transversely placed elevation, the septum transversum, in which the nerves end. The utricle, saccule, and membranous canals are held in position by numerous fibrous bands which stretch across the space between them and the bony walls. Structure.—The walls of the utricle, saccule, and semicircular canals consist of three layers. The outer layer is a loose and flocculent structure, apparently composed of ordinary fibrous tissue, containing blood-vessels and some pigment-cells. The middle layer, thicker and more transparent, forms a homogeneous membrana propria, and presents on its internal surface, especially in the semicircular canals, numerous papiUiform projections, which, on the addition of acetic acid, exhibit an appearance of longitudinal fibrillation and elongated nuclei. The inner layer is formed of polygonal nucleated epithelial cells. In the maculae of the utricle and saccule, and in the transverse septa of tlie ampuUse of the canals, the middle coat is thickened and the epithelium is columnar, and consists of supporting cells and hair-cells. The former are fusiform, and their deep ends are attached to the membrana propria, while their fi-ee extremities are united to form a thin cuticle. The hair-cells are flask-shaped, and then' deep, rounded ends do not reach the membrana propria, but lie betM'een the supporting cells. Tlie deep part of each contains a large nucleus, while its more superficial part is granular and pigmented. The free end is surmounted by a long, tapering, hair-like filament, which projects into the cavity. The filaments of the auditory nerve enter these parts, and having pierced the outer and the thickened middle layers, they lose their medullary sheaths, and then* axis cylinders ramify betAveen the haii'-cells. Two small rounded bodies termed otoconia (otoliths), and consisting of a mass of minute crystalline grains of carbonate of lime, held together in a mesh of delicate fibrous tissue, are contained in the \\ alls of the utricle and saccule opposite the distribution of the nerves. According to Bowman, a calcareous material is also sparingly scattered in the cells lining tlie ampullae of the .semicircular canals. The membranous cochlea, ductus cochlearis, or scala media consists of a spirally arranged tube enclosed in the bony canal of the cochlea and lying along its outer waU. As already stated, the osseous spiral lamina extends only part of the distance between tlie modiolus and the outer bony wall of the cochlea, while a membrane, the membrana basilaris, stretclies from its free edge to tlie outer wall of tlie cochlea, and completes the roof of the scala tympani (fig. 870). A second and more delicate membrane, the membrane of lleissner (membrana vestibularis) extends from the thickened periosteum covering tlie lamina