333 FEMUR proportion to the development of the pelvis and the stature. In consequence of tlie prominence of the hips and widenmg of the pelvis in tlie female, the neck of the thigh-bone forms more nearly a right angle with the shaft than it does in the male. It has been stated that the angle dimmishes in old age and that the durection of the neck becomes horizontal, but this statement is founded on insufficient evidence. Humphry found that the angle decreases during the period of growth, but after full grow th has been attained it does not usually undergo any change, even in old age ; it varies considerably in different persons of the same age. It is smaller m short than in long bones, and when the pelvis is wide.* The neck is flattened from, before back- wards, contracted in the middle, and broader externally than internally. The vertical diameter of the outer half is mcreased by the obliquity of the lower edge, which slopes do^vnwards to join the shaft at the level of the small trochanter, so that it measures one-tlm-d more than the antero- posterior diameter. The inner half is smaller, and of a more circular shape. The anterior surface of the neck is perforated by numerous vascular foramina. The posterior surface is smooth, and is broader and more concave than the anterior ; it gives attachment to the posterior part of the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, about half an inch above the posterior intertrochanteric line. Fig. 386.—Upper extremity of right femiu" viewed from behind and above. The superior border is short and thick, and terminates externally at the great trochanter ; its' surface is perforated by large foramina. The inferior border, long and narrow, curves a little backwards, to terminate at the small trochanter. The trochanters are prominent processes of bone which alford leverage to the muscles which rotate the thigh on its axis. They are two in number, the great and the small. The great trochanter (trochanter major) is a large, irregular, quadi-ilateral eminence, situated at the outer side of the neck, at its junction with the upper part of the shaft. It is directed a little outwards and backwards, and, in the adult, is about three-quarters of an inch lower than the head. It presents for examination two surfaces and four borders. The external surface, quadri- lateral in form, is broad, rough, convex, and marked by a diagonal impression, which extends from the postero-superior to the antero-inferior angle, and serves for the uxsertion of the tendon of the Gluteus medius. Above the impression is a triangular surface, sometimes rough for part of the tendon of the same muscle, sometimes smooth for the interposition of a bursa between tlie tendon and the bone. Below and behind the diagonal impression is a smooth, triangular surface, over which the tendon of the Gluteus maximus plays, a bursa being interposed. The internal surface, of much less extent * Journal of Anatoviy and Physiology, vol. xxiii.'