SPHENOID BONE 233 either side of the dorsum sellse is a notch for the passage of the sixtli nerve, and below it presents a sharp process, tlie petrosal process, which articulates with the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, forming the inner boundary of the foramen lacerum medium. Behind the dorsum sellse, the bone presents a sliallow depression, the clivus, which slopes obliquely backwards, and is contiimous witl) the basilar groove of the occipital bone ; it supports the upper part of the pons Varolii. The lateral surfaces of the body are united with the greater wings and internal pterygoid plates. Above the attachment of each of the greater wings is a broad gi'oove, curved something like the italic letter /'; it lodges the internal carotid artery and the cavernous sinus, and is named the carotid groove (sulcus caroticus). Along the posterior part of the outer margin of this groove, in the angle between the body and greater wing, is a ridge of bone, called the lingula. The posterior surface, quadrilateral in form (fig. 303), is joined, dui'ing infancy and adolescence, to the basilar process of the occipital bone by a plate of cartilage. Between the eighteenth and twenty-fifth years this becomes ossified, ossification commencing above and extending dowuMards, and the two bones then form one piece. The anterior surface of the body (fig. 302) presents, in the middle line, a vertical crest, the crista sphenoidalis, which articulates with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, and forms part of the septum of the nose. On either side of the crest is an irregular opening leading into the coiTcsponding sphenoidal air sinus. These sinuses are two large, irregular cavities hollowed out of tlie interior of the body of the sphenoid bone, and separated from one another by a bony septum, which is seldom quite vertical, being commonlj^ bent to one or the other side. They vary considerably in form and size,+ are seldom symmetrical, and are often partially subdivided by iiTegular osseous laminae. Occasionally, they extend into the basilar process of the occipital nearly as far as the foramen magnum. They begin to be developed m the third year, and are of a considerable size by the age of six. They are partially closed, in front and below, by two thin, curved plates of bone, the sphenoidal turbinated bones (see p. 236), leaving in the articulated skull a round opening at the upper part of each sinus by which it communicates with the upper and back part of the nose and occasionally with the jjosterior . . * figure both the anterior anJ inferior surfaces of the body of the sphenoid bone are shown, the bone being held with tlie pterygoid processes almost horizontal. t Aldren Turner (op. cit.) gives the following as their average measurements: vertical Height, I in.; antero-posterior depth, | in.; transverse breadth, J in.