412 SYNDESMOLOGY of the radio-humeral joint can be ascertained by feeUng for a slight groove or depression between the head of the radius and the capitellum of the humerus at the back of the articulation. Applied Anatomy.—From the great breadth of the joint, and the manner in which the articular surfaces are interlocked, and also on account of the strong lateral ligaments and the support which the joint derives from the mass of muscles attached to each condyle of the humerus, lateral displacement of the bones is very uncommon ; whereas antero- posterior dislocation, on account of the shortness of the antero-posterior diameter, the wealaiess of the anterior and posterior hgaments, and the want of support of muscles, occurs much more frequently. Dislocation backwards takes place when the forearm is in a position of extension, and forwards when in a position of flexion. For, in the extended position, the coronoid process is not locked into the coronoid fossa, and loses its gi'ip to a certain extent, whereas the olecranon process is in the olecranon fossa, and entirely prevents displacement forwards. On the other hand, during flexion, the coronoid process is in the coronoid fossa, and prevents dislocation backwards, while the olecranon, having left the olecranon fossa, is not so efficient in preventing a forward displacement. ^Vhen lateral dislocation does take place it is generally incomplete. Dislocation of the elbow-joint is of common occurrence in children, far more common than dislocation of any other articulation. As a rule, in young persons, the apphcation of any severe violence to a joint is more likely to produce a fracture of bone than dislocation. In lesions of this joint there is often very great difficulty in ascertaining the exact nature of the injury. The elbow-joint is occasionally the seat of acute synovitis. The joint-cavity then becomes distended with fluid, the bulging showing itself principally around the olecranon process, that is to say, on its inner and outer sides and above, in consequence of the laxness of the posterior ligament. Again, there is often some swelling just above the head of the radius, in the line of the radio-humeral joint, or the whole elbow may assume a fusiform appearance. There is not generally much swelling at the front of the joint, though sorne- times deep-seated fulness beneath the Brachialis anticus may be noted. When suppuration occurs the abscess usually points at one or other border of the Triceps ; occasionally the pus discharges itself in front, near the insertion of the Brachialis anticus. In cases of suppurative synovitis, incisions should be made into the joint on either side of the olecranon, care being taken to avoid wounding the ulnar nerve on the inner side. Chronic synovitis, usually of tuberculous origin, is of common occurrence in the elbow-joint: in such cases the forearm tends to assume the position of semiflexion, which is that of greatest ease and relaxation of hgaments. It should be borne in mind that if anlvylosis occur in this or the extended position, the hmb will not be nearly so useful as if ankylosed in a position of rather less than a right angle. The elbow-jomt is also sometimes affected with osteo-arthritis, but less commonly than some of the larger joints. Excision of the elbow is principally requu-ed for one of three conditions—viz. tuber- culous arthritis, uijury and its results, or faulty ankylosis—but may be necessary for some other rarer conditions, such as disorganismg arthritis after pyremia and unreduced dis- locations. The results of the operation are, as a rule, more favourable than those of excision of any other joint, and it is one, therefore, that the surgeon should never hesitate to perform, especially in any of the first three conditions mentioned above. The operation is best performed by a vertical mcision down the back of the jomt; a straight incision is made about four inches long, the mid-pomt of which is on a level with and a httle to the inner side of the tip of the olecranon. This incision is made Aoym to the bone, through the substance of the Triceps. The operator, guardmg the soft parts ^yith his thumb-nail, separates them from the bone with the point of his knife. In doing this there are two structiu-es which he should carefully avoid : the ulnar nerve, which lies parallel to his mcision, but a Uttle mternal, as it coiurses down between the mternal condyle and the olecranon process ; and the prolongation of the Triceps into the deep fascia of the forearm over the Anconeus. Having cleared the bones and di\^ded the lateral and posterior hgaments, the forearm is strongly flexed and the ends of the bones turned out and sawn off. The tummg out of the ends of the bones is rendered easier by first cutting off the olecranon process with a pair of cutting bone forceps. The section of the humerus should be through the base of the condyles, that of the uhia and radius should be just below the level of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the uhia and the neck of the radius, in this operation the object is to obtain such union as shall allow free motion of the bones of the forearm ; and, therefore, passive movements must be commenced early—that is to say about the tenth day. It is most important to maintam the contmuity of the iYiceps wth the deep fascia of the forearm, so as to obtam good power of extension m the new joint. V. RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS The articulation of tlie radius with the ulna is effected by ligaments, which connect together both extremities as well as the shafts of these bones, ihe Haaments may, consequently, be subdivided into three sets: 1, those of the superior radio-ulnar articulation; 2,the middle radio-ulnar ligaments; 6, those of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation.