524 MYOLOGY cord, and Scarpa's fascia upon the anterior wall of tlie abdomen ; on either side it is firmly attached to the margins of the rami of the pubis and ischium, external to the crus penis and as far back as the tuberosity of the ischium ; posteriorly, it curves round the Transversus perinaji muscles to join the lowci' margin of the triangular ligament. In the middle line, it is connected with the superficial fascia and with the median septum of the Accelerator urinaj muscle. This fascia not only covers the muscles in this region, but sends upM'ards a vertical septum from its deep surface, which separates the back part of the subjacent space into two, the septum being incomplete in front. The central tendinous point of the perinaeum.—This is a fibrous point in the middle line of the perinaeum, between the urethra and the rectum, and about half an inch in front of the anus. At this point six muscles converge and are attached : viz. the External sphincter ani, the Accelerator urina^. the two Transversi perinsei, and the anterior fibres of the Levatores ani ; so that by the contraction of these muscles, which extend in different directions, it serves as a fixed point of support. The Transversus perinaei is a narrow muscular slip, which passes more or less transversely across the perineal space in front of the anus. It arises by tendinous fibres from the inner and fore part of the tuberosity of the ischium, and, running inwards, is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perinseum, joining in this situation with the muscle of the opposite side, with the External sphincter ani behind, and \vith the Accelerator urinse in front. In some cases, the fibres of the deeper layer of the Sphincter ani decussate in front of the anus and are continued into this muscle. Occasionally it gives off fibres, which join with the Accelerator urinse of the same side. Nerve-supply.—It is supplied by the jDerineal branch of the mternal pudic. Actions.—The simultaneous contraction of the two muscles serves to fix the central tendinous point of the perinseum. The Accelerator or Ejaculator urinae (m. bulbocavemosus) is placed in the middle line of the perinseum, in front of the anus. It consists of two symmetrical parts, united along the median line by a tendinous raphe. It arises from the central tendon of the perhiseum and from the median raphe in front. Its fibres diverge like the plumes of a quill-pen ; the most posterior form a thin layer, which is lost on the superficial surface of the triangular ligament ; the middle fibres encurcle the bulb and adjacent parts of the corpus rgrhtfi^v^t-s-pongiooum, and join with the fibres of the opposite side, on the upper part «AX<^A€ J of the eorp»6- spongiooum-, in a strong aponeurosis ; the anterior fibres, the longest and most distinct, spread out over the side of the corpus cavernosum,pf^ cX/'o- to be inserted partly into that body, anterior to the Erector penis, occasion- vtfr/jojws ally extending to the pubis, and partly terminating in a tendinous expansion which covers the dorsal vessels of the penis. The latter fibres are best seen by dividing the muscle longitudmally, and reflecting it outwards from the surface of the corpus spongiosum. Actions.—This muscle serves to empty the canal of the urethra, after the bladder has expelled its contents ; during the greater part of the act of mictunnou its fibres are relaxed, and it only comes into action at the end of the process. The middle fibres are supposed by Krause to assist in the erection of the corpus spongio- sum, by compressing the erectile tissue of the bulb. The anterior fibres, according to Tyrrel, also contribute to the erection of the penis by compressmg the dorsal vein, as they are inserted into, and continuous with, the fascia of the perns. The Erector penis (m. ischiocavernosus) covers the crus penis. It is an elongated muscle, broader in the middle than at either extremity, and situated on either side of the lateral boundary of the perina5um. It arises by tendinous and fleshy flbres from the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the crus penis ; and from the rami of the pubis and ischium on either side of the crus. From these points fleshy fibres succeed, and end in an aponeurosis which is inserted into the sides and under surface of the crus ^^"ilerve-supply.—The Erector penis is supphcd by the perineal branch of tlu- internnl pudic. . j x j +1 + ,rn Action.—The Erector penis compresses the crus poms, and retards tlie return of the blood through the veins, and thus serves to maintain the organ erect.