SPLANCHNOLOGY 1232 of erectile tissue, placed one on either side of the vaginal orifice and united to each other in front by a narrow median band termed the pars intermedia. Each lateral mass measures a little over an inch in length. Their posterioi ends are expanded and are in contact with the glands of Bartholin ; tlieir anterior ends are tapered and joined to one another by the pars intermedia ; their deep surfaces arc in contact Mith the triangular ligament; superficially they are covered by the Bulbo-cavernosus muscle. The glands of Bartholin (glandulse vestibularos majores) are the homo- logues of Cowper's glands in the male. They consist of two small, roundish bodies of a reddish-yellow colour, situated one on either side of the vaginal orifice in contact with the posterior end of each lateral mass of the bulbus vestibuli. Each gland opens by means of a duct, about three-quarters of an inch in length, immediately external to the hymen, in the groove between it and the labium minus. Mammary Glands The mammae, or breasts, secrete the milk, and are accessory glands of the generative system. They exist in the male as well as in the female ; but in the former only in the rudimentary state, unless their growth is excited by peculiar circumstances. In the female they are two large hemispherical eminences lying witliin the superficial fascia and situated to\i^ards the lateral aspects of the pectoral region ; they correspond to the intervals between the second and sixth ribs, and extend from the side of the sternum to near the mid-axillary line. Their weight and dimensions differ at different periods of life, and in different individuals. Before puberty they are of small size, but enlarge as the generative organs become more completely developed. Fig. 1019.—Dissection of the lower half of the female breast during the period of lactation. (Luschka.) Lobule iinravplh il hacliferoiis duct Lobules Lonili in connective tissue They increase during pregnancy, and especially after delivery, and become atrophied in old age. The left mamma is generally a little larger than the right. The base of each is nearly circular, flattened, or slightly concave, and has its long diameter directed upwards and outwards towards the axuUa ; it is separated from the fascia covering the Pcctoralis major and Serratus magnus muscles by loose connective tissue. The outer surface of tlie mamma is convex, and presents, just below the centre, a small conical prommence, the nipple. ,, The nipple (papilla mamnunp) is a cylindrical or conical emnience, capawe of undergoing a sort of erection from m'echanical excitement, a change mamJy