ANGIOLOGY 704 Pyriformis muscle behind the internal pudic artery to the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, through which it escapes from the pelvis between the Pyriformis and Coccygeus. It then descends in the interval between the great trochanter of the femur and tuberosity of the ischium, accompanied by the sciatic nerves, and covered by the Gluteus maximus, and is continued down ■ the back of the thigh, supplying the sldn, and anastomosing with branches of the perforating arteries. Inside the pelvis it distributes branches to the Pyriformis, Coccygeus, and Levator ani muscles ; some heemorrhoidal branches, which supply the rectum, and occasionally take the place of the middle hsemorrhoidal artery ; and vesical branches to the base and neck of the bladder, vesicul^ seminales, aiad prostate gland. Outside the pelvis it gives off the following branches : Muscular. Anastomotic. Coccygeal. Articular. Comes nervi ischiadici. Cutaneous. The muscular branches supply the Gluteus maximus, anastomosing with the gluteal artery in the substance of the muscle; the external rotators, anastomosing with the internal pudic artery ; and the muscles attached to the tuberosity of the ischium, anastomosmg with the external branch of the obturator and the internal circumflex arteries. The coccygeal branch runs inwards, pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and suppUes the Gluteus maximus, the integument, and other structm:es on the back of the coccyx. The comes nervi ischiadici (a. comitans n. ischiadici) is a long, slender vessel, which accompanies the great sciatic nerve for a short distance ; it then penetrates it, and runs in its substance to the lower part of the thigh. . The anastomotic is directed downwards across the external rotators, and assists m forming the so-called crucial anastomosis by anastomosing with the superior perforatmg and internal and external circumflex arteries. The articular branch, generally derived from the anastomotic, is distributed to the capsule of the hip-joint. The cutaneous branches are distributed to the skin of the buttock and back ot the tmgli. The ilio-lumbar artery (a. iliolumbalis), given ofi from the posterior trimk of the internal iliac, turns upwards and outwards behind the obtui-ator nerve and the external iliac vessels, to the inner margin of the Psoas muscle, behind which it divides into a lumbar and an iUac branch. The lumbar branch (ramus lumbahs) supplies the Psoas and Quadratus lumborum muscles, anastomoses with the last lumbar artery, and sends a small spmal branch through the mtervertebral foramen between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, into the spinal canal, to supply the cauda equina. The iliac branch (ramus iliacus) descends to supply the Ihacus muscle ; some offsets, run- ning between the muscle and the bone, anastomose vnth the ihac branch of the obtvu-ator : one of these enters an obhque canal to supply the diploe, while others run along the crest of the ilium, distributmg branches to the gluteal and abdominal muscles, and anastomosmg in then: course with the gluteal, cu-cumflex iUac, and external circumflex arteries. The lateral sacral arteries (aa. sacrales laterales) (fig. 608) are usually two in number on either side, superior and inferior. . The superior, which is of large size, passes inwards, and, after anastomosmg with branches from the middle sacral, enters the first or second anterior sacral foramen, supplies branches to the contents of the sacral canal, and, escapmg b> the corresponding posterior sacral foramen, is distributed to the sknn and muscles on the dorsum of the sacrum, anastomosing with the gluteal. _ The inferior passes obliquely across the front of the Pyriformis muscle and sacral nerves to the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina, descends on the front of the sacrum, and anastomoses over the coccyx with the imddle sacxal am opposite lateral sacral artery. In its course it gives off branches, ^vbich entn the anterior sacral foramina; these, after supplying t^!^*f' 'f'^ canal, escape by the posterior sacral foraimna, and are distributed to the muscle, and skin on the dorsal surface of the sacrum, anastomosing with the gluteal. The gluteal artery (a. gluta^a superior) is the largest branch of the inteina u ar and appears to be the continuation of the posterior division of that vessel. It ^ «hort, thick trunk, which runs backwards between the '"'P^^^"'"" i .,lr of e first sacral nerve, and, passing out of the pelvis iihove the upper ^^"'rt^'' « ^^^^^^ Pyriformis muscle, immediately divides into a superficial and a deep hanch. W ithm