MYOLOGY 480 connection with the hyoid bone is very slight and may be altogether absent. It is a flat, triangular muscle, placed vertically close to the middle line, its apex corresponding with its point of origin from the mandible, its base with its insertion into the tongue and hyoid bone. It arises by a short tendon from the superior genial tubercle on the inner surface of the symphysis menti, immediately above the Genio-hyoid, and from this point spreads out in a fan-like form. The inferior fibres extend downwards, to be attached by a thin aponeurosis to the upper part of the body of the hyoid bone, a few passing between the Hyo-glossus and Chondro-glossus to blend with the Constrictor muscles of the pharynx ; the middle fibres pass backwards, and the superior ones upwards and forwards, to enter the whole length of the under surface of the tongue, from the base to the apex. Behind, the muscle is quite distinct from its fellow of the opposite side ; the two muscles are separated at their insertions into the under surface of the tongue by a tendinous raphe, which extends through the middle of the organ ; in front, they are more or less blended : distinct fasciculi are to be seen passing off from one muscle, crossing the middle hne, and intersecting bundles of fibres, derived from the muscle on the other side. The Hyo-glossus is a thin, flat, quadrilateral muscle, which arises from the side of the body and whole length of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, and passes almost vertically upwards to enter the side of the tongue, between the Stylo-glossus and Inferior lingualis. The fibres of this muscle which arise from the body of the hyoid bone are directed upwards and backwards, overlapping those arising from the greater cornu, which are inchned upwards and forwards. Relations.—The Hyo-glossus is in relation by its external surface with the Digastric, the Stylo-hyoid, Stylo-glossus and Mylo-byoid muscles, the submaxiUary gangUon, the lingual and hypoglossal nerves, Wharton's duct, the ranine vein, the subhngual gland, and the deep portion of the submaxillary gland. By its deep swr/oce it is in relation with the stylo-hyoid ligament, the Genio-hyo-glossus, Inferior lingualis, and Middle constrictor, the hngual vessels, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The Chondro-glossus is a distinct muscular slip, though it is sometime^ described as a part of the Hyo-glossus, from which, however, it is separated by the fibres of the Genio-hyo-glossus, which pass to the side of the pharynx. It is about three-quarters to an inch in length, and arises from the mner side and base of the lesser cornu and contiguous portion of the body ot tlie hvoid bone, and passes directly upwards to blend with the mtrmsic muscular fibres of the tongue, between the Hyo-glossus and Genio-hyo-glossus. A smaU slip of muscular fibres is occasionally found, arismg from the cartilage triticea in the thyi'O-hyoid ligament , it pas.ses upwards and forw ards and enters the tongue with the hindermost fibres of the Hyo-glossus The Stvlo-glossus, the shortest andsmaUest of the three styloid muscles, arises from the anterior and outer side of the styloid process, neai' its apex and from the stylo-mandibular ligament. Passing downwards and fofA.ards between the internal and external carotid arteries, and becoming nearly horrzontal in its direction, it divides upon the side of the tongue into U^o po io^ : one, longitudinal, enters the side of the tongue r its doijal surface blendiAg with the fibres of the Inferior lingualis m front of the Hjo- gbLS; the oTher, oblique, overlaps the Hyo-glossus muscle and decussates "''^Neive^-^The muscles of this group are supplied by the hypoglossal. Muscular substance of tongue (%/i'J3).-The tongue consists o^ tuo sym- metrical portions separated from each other in the middle line by * J ous Sptum. Its muscular fibres run in various directions, but "^^^ greuped into Uvo sets-extrinsic and intrinsic. The extrinsic muscles are those ^vhlch ha^e into which the muscular fibres which terminate on the surface of the tongue