673 BRACHIAL ARTERY side and the hand supinated. An incision about two inches in length shoiild be niade on the inner side of the Coraco-brachialis muscle, and the subjacent fascia cautiously divided, so as to avoid wounding the internal cutaneous nerve or basilic vein, as the latter sometimes runs on the surface of the artery as high as the axilla. The fascia having been divided, it should be remembered that the uhiar and internal cutaneous nerves he on the inner side of the artery, the median on the outer side, the latter nerve bemg occasion- ally superficial to the artery in this situation, and that the venee comites are also ui relation vrith the vessel, one on either side. These being carefully separated, the aneurysm needle should be passed round the artery from the inner to the outer side. In the case of a high division, the two arteries are usually placed side by side ; and if they are exposed in an operation, the surgeon should endeavour to ascertain, by alter- nately pressing on each vessel, which of the two communicates with the wound or aneurysm, wlien a Ugature may be applied accordmgly ; or if pulsation or hemorrhage ceases only when both vessels are compressed, both vessels must be tied, as it may be concluded that the two communicate above the seat of disease, or are reunited. In the middle of the arm the brachial artery may be exposed by making an incision alone the inner margin of the Biceps muscle. The forearm bemg bent so as to relax the muscle, it should be drawn slightly aside, and the fascia carefully divided, when the median nerve -will be exposed lying upon (sometimes beneath) the artery ; this bemg drawTi inwards and the muscle outwards, the artery should be separated from its accom- panj-ing veins and secured. In this situation the inferior profunda may be mistaken for the'main trunk, especially if enlarged fi-om the collateral circulation having become established ; this may be avoided by du-ecting the incision externally towards the Biceps, rather than inwards or backwards towards the Triceps. The loiver part of the brachial artery is of interest from a surgical point of view, on account of the relation which it bears to the veins most commonly opened in venesection. Of these vessels, the vena mediana cubiti is the largest and most promment, and, consequently, the one usually selected for the operation. It should be remembered that this vem rims parallel mth the brachial artery, from which it is separated by the bicipital fascia, and that care should be taken, in opening the vein, not to carry the incision too deep, so as to endanger the artery. Collateral Ciradation.—After the application of a ligature to the brachial artery in the upper third of the arm, the cu-culation is carried on by branches from the circumflex and subscapular arteries anastomosing with ascending branches fi'Oin the superior profunda. If the brachial be tied below the origui of the profunda arteries, the cu'culation is maintained by the branches of the profunda anastomosing with the recurrent radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries. The branches of the brachial artery are: 1. The superior profunda (a. profunda brachii) arises from the inner and back part of the brachial, just below the lower border of the Teres major, and passes backwards to the interval between the outer and inner heads of the Triceps muscle, accompanied by the musculo-spiral nerve. It winds round the back of the shaft of the humerus in the spiral groove, between the outer head of the Triceps and the bone, to the external intermuscular septum where it divides into two terminal branches. One of these pierces the septum, and descends, in company with the musculo-spiral nerve, to the space between the Brachialis anticus and Brachio-radiaUs, where it anastomoses with the recurrent branch of the radial artery; the other, much larger, descends behind the external intermuscular septum to the back of the elbow-joint, where it anastomoses with the posterior interosseous recurrent, the posterior ulnar recurrent, the anastomotica magna, and inferior profunda (fig. 597). The superior profmida suppUes the Triceps muscle and gives off a nutrient artery which enters the humerus at the upper end of the musculo-spiral groove. Near its commencement it sends a branch upwards Superior profunda. Nutrient. Inferior profunda. Anastomotica magna. Muscular. X X