89 THE NEURAL GROOVE AND TUBE coutiuuous wdth eacli other, and from there gradually extend backwards, one on .'ither side of the primitive streak. Between these folds is seen a mesial, longitu- dinal t'roove, the neural c/roove (figs. 108, 109), which gradually deepens as the medulfary folds become elevated. Ultimately the folds meet and coalesce in the middle Une, converting the neural groove into a closed tube, the neural tube or canal (fig. Ill), the surrounding ectodermal wall of which forms the rudiment of the nervous system. By the coalescence of the medullary folds over the anterior end of the primitive streak, the blastopore no longer Fio. 109.—Human embryo—length 2 mm. Dorsal view, opens on the surface but into the closed canal of the neural tube, and thus a transitory communica- tion, the neurenteric canal, is estabhshed between the neural tube and the primi- tive ahmentary canal. The coalescence of the medul- lary folds occurs first in the region of the hind- brain, and from there ex- tends forwards and back- wards ; the hinder part of the neural groove presents for a time a rhomboidal shape, and to this ex- panded portion the term sinus rhomboidalis has been apphed (fig. 110). Before the neural groove is closed to form the neural tube a ridge of ectodermal cells appears along the promi- nent margin of each medul- lary fold; this is termed the neural crest or ganglion ridge (fig. 150), and from it the spinal and cranial nerve ganglia and the gangha of the sympathetic nervous system are developed. The cephahc end of the neural groove exhibits several dilatations, which, when the tube is closed, assume the form of three vesicles ; these constitute the three primary cerebral vesicles, and correspond respectively to the future/ore-ftraw, mid- brain, and hind-brain (fig. 110). Their walls are developed into the nervous tissue and neurogha of the brain, while their cavities become modified to form its ventricles. The remainder of the tube forms the central canal of the spinal cord, whilst from its ectodermal wall the nervous and neurogUal elements of the spinal cord are developed. THE NOTOCHORD The notochord (fig. Ill) consists of a rod of cells situated on the ventral aspect of the neural tube; it constitutes the foundation of the axial skeleton, since around it the segments of the vertebral colunm are formed. Its appearance synchronises \vith that of the neural tube. On the ventral aspect of the neural groove an axial thickening of the entoderm takes place ; this thick- ening assumes the appearance of a furrow—the chordal furroiv—the margins of which come into contact, and so convert it into a solid rod of cells—the notochord —which is then separated from the entoderm. It extends throughout the entire length of the future vertebral column, and reaches as far as the anterior end of the mid-brain. Its cephahc extremity lies immediately behind the pituitary invagination of the stomatodfEura, where it ends in a hook-like extremity in the region of the future dorsum sellce of the sphenoid bone. It hes at first between the neural tube and the entoderm of the primitive ahmentary canal, but soon becomes separated from them by the mesoderm, wliich grows inwards and with the amnion laid oiJen. x 30. (After Graf Spee ; reconstruction.)