226 OSTEOLOGY The inn^er surface of tlie mastoid portion presents a deep, curved groove, the sulcus sigmoideus, which lodges part of the lateral sinus ; in it may be seen the opening of the mastoid foramen. The groove for the lateral sinus is separated from the innermost of the mastoid air-cells by only a thin lamina of bone, and even tliis may be partly deficient. A section of the mastoid process (fig. 295) shows it to be hollowed out into a number of spaces, tlie mastoid cells (cellulse mastoideai), which exhibit the greatest possible variety as to their size and number. At the upper and front part of the bone they are large and irregular and contain air, but towai-ds the lower part of the bone they diminLsh in size, while those at the apex of the process are frequently quite small and contam marrow. Occasionally they are entirely absent, and the mastoid is then solid throughout. In addition to these a large irregular cavity is situated at the upper and front part of the bone. It is called the mastoid antrum (antrum tympanicum), and must be distinguished from the mastoid cells, though it communicates with them. Like the mastoid cells it is filled -n'ith air and lined by a prolongation of the mucous membrane of the tympanic cavity, with which Fig. 295.—Coronal section of right temporal bone. Mastoid antrum Teginen ti/mjjnni Prominence of extl. semicircular canal Prominence of facial canal Fenestra ovalis Bristle in canal for Tensor tympani Processus cochleariformis Bristle in liiatux Fallopii Carotid canal Bony part of Eustachian tube Promontory Bristle in pyramid Fenestra rotunda Sulcus tympanicus Bristle in stylo-mastoid foramen it communicates. The mastoid antrum is bounded above by a tlun plate of bone, the tegmm tympani, whiclr separates it from the middle fossa of the base of th; skull • below by the mastoid process : externally by t he squamous portion of the bone'just below the supra-mastoid crest, and internally by the externa semicircular canal of the internal ear which projects l^to .its cavity It opei s in front into that portion of the tympanic cavity which is known as the attic trmSXum is a cavity of some considerable size a. t.eJi- of birth, and is derived, together with t ^^^y^^Pf ^^'^^ ni^^^^^^^ tube from the inner part of the first visceral cleft. The mastoid air ceiis mav'be regarded as diverticula from tlie antrum, and begin to appear at or Sore birth - by the fifth year they are weU marked, but then- development is not completed until towards puberty.