654 ANGIOLOGY limited area of the central ganglia can be injected, and tte injection cannot be driven beyond the area of the part supplied by the particular vessel which is the subject of the experiment. The cortical arterial system.—The vessels forming this system are the terminal branches of the anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral arteries. These vessels divide and ramify iii the substance of the pia mater, and give off nutrient arteries which penetrate the brain cortex perpendicularly. The nutrient vessels are divisible into two classes, long and short. The long, or medullary artmes, pass through the grey matter and penetrate the subjacent white matter to the depth of about" an inch and a half, without intercommunicating othermse than by very fine capillaries, and thus constitute so many independent small systems. The short vessels are confined to the cortex, where they form with the long vessels a compact network in the middle zone of the grey matter, the outer and inner zones being sparingly supplied with blood (fig. 589). The vessels of the cortical arterial system are not so strictly ' terminal' as those of the central ganglionic system, but they approach this type very closely, so that injection of one area from the vessel of another area, though possible, is frequently very difficult, and is only efiected through vessels of small calibre. As a result of this, obstruction of one of the main branches, or its divisions, may have the effect of producmg softening in a limited area of the cortex. ARTERIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The artery which supplies the upper extremity continues as a single trunk from its commencement do^vn to the elbow ; but different portions of it have received different names, accordmg to the regions thi'ough which they pass_ That part of the vessel which extends from its origm to the outer border ot the first rib is termed the subclavian ■ beyond this point to the lower border of the axiUa, the artery is termed the axillary ; and from the lower margin of the axillary space to the bend of the elbow, it is termed brachial; here, the trunk ends by dividing into two branches, the radial and ulnar. Subclavian Arteries (fig. 590) On the right side the subclavian artery (a. subclavia) arises from the innominate a?tery opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation; on the Mt side it sprmgs fi^m the arch of the aorta. The two vessel, therefore, m ihe first l^S ot their course, differ in length, dii-ection, and relation witli ""^t^^^^cS: the description, more especiaUy from a surgical point of view each subclavian artery is divided mto three parts. The fi^^t POition on the riSit side, passes upwards and outwards from the origm of the ve.sel ?o the iSner border-of the Scalenus anticus. On the left side it ascends neail> verUcaUy to gain the inner border of that muscle. The second part .passe. nutwarS' behfnd the Scalenus anticus ; and the third part extends from he oSrx iSmifrtS beneath the clavicle, to the out^er border of the first rib Xie i becomes the axiUary artery. The first portions of the « ves el differ so much in their course and r;elations "^^^J^^^^^^^ that they will be described separately. The second and third parts practically alike on the two sides. First Part of the Right Subclavian Artery (figs. 572, 590) PWysm., deep fascia, the clavieolar ?' "^^^^^^ It is hyoid, and Stemo-thytoid ■""'"'"■.""''.T v. m L^d bv tt P iclioeastric erosai by the internal iigiilat and vertebral vcms, and by tlie pnei t