ORGANS OP SPECIAL SENSE 1014 of modified connective tissue, the fibres of \\hich are directly continuous with the fibres of the sclera. The fibres of each lamella are for the most part parallel with one another, but at right angles to those of adjacent lamellae. Fibres, however, frequently pass from one lamella to the next. The lamellae are connected with each other by an interstitial cement- substance, in which are spaces, the corneal spaces. These are stellate in shape and have numerous offsets, by which they communicate with each other. Each contains a cell, the corneal corpuscle, resembling in form the space in which it is lodged, but not entirely filling it. Immediately beneath the conjunctival epithelium, the cornea proper presents certain characteristics wliich have led some anatomists to regard it as a distinct membrane, and it has been named the lamina elastica anterior of Bowman. It differs, however, from the lamina elastica posterior, in presenting evidence of fibrillar structure, and in not having the same tendency to curl inwards, or to undergo fracture, when detached from the other layers of the cornea. It consists of extremely closely interwoven fibrils, similar to those found in the substantia propria, but contains no corneal corpuscles. It may be regarded as a part of the proper tissue of the cornea. The lamina elastica posterior {membrane of Descemet or Demours) covers the posterior sui-face of the substantia propria, and consists of an elastic, transparent homogeneous membrane, of extreme thinness, which is not rendered opaque by either water, alcohol, or acids. It is very brittle, but its most remarkable properties are its extreme elasticity, and the tendency wliich it presents to curl up, or roll upon itself, mth the attached surface innermost, when separated from the proper substance of the cornea. Its use appears to be ' to preserve the requisite permanent correct curvature of the flaccid cornea proper ' (Jacob). At the margin of the cornea the lamina elastica posterior breaks up into fibres which form a reticular structure at the outer angle of the anterior chamber, the intervals between the fibres forming small cavernous spaces, the spaces of Fontana (spatia anguh iridis). These spaces communicate \^ith a circular canal in the substance of the sclera close to its jmiction with the cornea. This is the canal of Schlemm (sinus venosus sclerae) ; it communicate^ internally mth the anterior chamber through the spaces of Fontana, and externally with the scleral veins. Some of the fibres of this reticulated struc- ture are continued into the substance of the iris, forming the ligamentum pectinatum iridis ; while others are connected with the fore-part of the sclera and choroid. . . The layer of endothelium (endothelium camerae anterioris) covers the pos- terior surface of the elastic lamina, is reflected on to the front of tlie ms, and also lines the spaces of Fontana. It consists of a single stratum of polygonal, flattened, nucleated cells, similar to those lining other serous ca%aties. Vessels and Nerves.—The cornea is a non-vascular structure, the capillary vessels terminating in loops at its circumference. Lymphatic vessels have not as yet been demonstrated in it, but are represented by the channels in which the bundles of nerves run ; these are lined by an endothehum. The nerves are numerous and are derived from the ciliary nerves. They form an annular j>lexiis around the periphery of the comea, from which fibres enter the substantia propria. They lose their medullary sheaths and rami y throughout its substance m a delicate network, and their termmal filaments form a farm and closer plexus on the surface of the cornea proper, beneath the epithelium ihis is termed the sub-epithelial plexus, and from it fibrils are given off which ramify between tne epithelial cells, forming an intra-epithelial plexus. ' II. The Vascular and Pigmented Tunic (figs. 832, 834, 835.) The middle tunic of the eye is formed from behind forwards by the choroid, the ciliary body, and the iris. , „..f„nrl« as The choroid invests the posterior five-sixths of the globe, and extends as far forwards as the ora serrata of the retina The ciliary b«dy co^ec^ts tl^ choroid to the circumference of the iris. The ms is a "i"^"!'-^ , f^'^l behind the cornea, and presents in its centre a rounded '^^P^^'^^^f';^'^^^;"f dark The choroid (chorioidea) is a thin, highly vascular i^^l^^brane, of a dark brou-n or chocolate colour, which invests the posterior fi^T-^'f^^^il,^;,^^^^^^^^^ it is pierced behind by the optic nerve, and in this situation is firmly adhcicnt