925 SEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE The tympanic branch arises from the nerve opposite the pyramid ; it passes through a small canal in the pyramid, and supplies the Stapedius muscle. The chorda tympani is given off from the facial as it passes vertically downwards at the back of the tympanum, about a quarter of an inch before its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. It runs from below upwards and forwards in a distinct canal, and enters the cavity of the tympanum, through an aperture (iter clwrdoe posterius) on its posterior wall, close to the inner aspect of the posterior border of the membrana tympani and on a level with the upper end of the handle of the malleus, and becomes invested with mucous membrane. It traverses the cavity of the tympanum, between the fibrous and mucous laj'ers of the membrana tympani, crosses over the handle of the malleus, and emerges from the cavity through a foramen situated at the inner end of the Glaserian fissure, and named the iter chordce anterius, or canal of Huguier. It then descends between the two Pterygoid muscles on the inner aspect of the spine of the sphenoid, which it sometimes grooves, and joins, at an acute angle, the posterior border of the lingual nerve. It receives a few efferent fibres from the motor root ; these enter the submaxillary ganglion, and through it are distributed to the submaxillary and sublingual glands ; the majority of its fibres are afferent and continued omvards through the muscular substance of the tongue to the mucous membrane covering its anterior two-thirds ; they constitute the nerve of taste for this portion of the tongue. Before joining the lingual nerve the chorda tympani receives a small communicating branch from the otic ganglion. The posterior auricular nerve (n. auricularis posterior) arises close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and passes upwards in front of the mastoid process ; here it is joined by a filament from the auricular branch of the pneumo- gastric, and communicates with the mastoid branch of th© great auricular, and with the small occipital. As it ascends between the meatus and mastoid process it divides into auricular and occipital branches. The auricular branch supplies the Retrahens auriculam and the small intrinsic muscles on the cranial surface of the puma. The occipital branch, the larger, passes backwards along the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and suppUes the occipital portion of the Occipito-frontalis. The digastric branch ( ramus digastricus) arises close to the stylo-mastoid foramen ; it divides into several filaments, which supply the posterior belly of the Digastric ; one of these perforates that muscle to join the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. The stylo-hyoid branch (ramus styloliyoideus) frequently arises in con- junction with that to the posterior belly of the Digastric ; it is long and slender, and passes mwards to enter the Stylo-hyoid about its middle. The temporo-facial division, the larger of the two terminal branches, runs upwards and forwards through the parotid gland, crosses the external carotid artery and temporo-maxillary vein, and passes over the neck of the condyle of the mandible, being connected in this situation with the auriculo- temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. It breaks up mto branches, which are distributed over the temple and upper part of the face ; these are grouped mto three sets : temporal, malar, and infraorbital. Tlie temporal branches (rami temporales) cross the zygoma to the temporal region, supplying the Attrahens and Attollens auriculam muscles, and join with the temporal branch of the temporo-malar, a branch of the superior maxillary, and with the auriculo-temporal branch of tlie mferior maxillary. The more anterior branches supply the frontal portion of the Occipito-frontalis, the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and the Corrugator superciUi, and join mth the supraorbital and lachrymal branches of the oplitlialmic. The malar branches (rami zygomatici) run across the malar bone to the outer angle of the orbit, where they supply the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and jom wnth filaments from the lachrymal nerve and the malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The infraorbital branches (rami mfraorbitales), of larger size than the rest, pass horizontally forwards to be distributed between the lower margin of the orbit and the mouth. The superficial branches run beneath the skin and above the superficial muscles of the face which they supply : some branches are distributed to the Pyramidalis nasi, joining at the inner angle of the orbit