MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE FOOT 587 it is continuous with the fascia of the leg ; it contains one synovial sheath for the tendon of tlie Tibiahs anticus ; the other tendons and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve joass beneatli it, but without any synovial sheaths. The Y-shaped portion is placed in front of the ankle-joint, the stem of the Y being attached externally to the ujDper surface of the os calcis, in front of the depression for the interosseous ligament; it is directed inwards as a double layer, one lamina passing in front of, and the other behind, the tendons of the Peroneus tertius and Extensor longus digitorum. At tlie inner border of the latter tendon these two layers join together, forming a sheatli in which tlie tendons are enclosed, surrounded by a synovial membrane. From the imier extremity of tin's slieath the two limbs of the Y diverge : one is directed upwards and inwards, to be attached to tlie internal malleolus, passing over the Extensor proprius liallucis and the vessels and nerves, but enclosing tlie Tibialis anticus and its synovial sheath by a splitting of its fibres. The other limb extends downwards and inwards to be attached to the inner border of the plantar fascia, and passes over the tendons of the Extensor proprius hallucis and Tibialis anticus and also the vessels and nerves. Tliese two tendons are contained in separate synovial sheaths situated beneath the ligament. The internal annular ligament is a strong fibrous band, which extends from the internal malleolus above to the margin of the os calcis beloM-, converting a series of grooves in this situation into canals, for the passage of the tendons of the Flexor muscles and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve into the sole of the foot. It is continuous by its upper border with the deep fascia of the leg, and by its lower border with the jilantar fascia and the fibres of origin of the Abductor hallucis muscle. The four canals which it forms transmit, from within outwards, the tendon of the Tibialis posticus ; the tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum ; the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, which run tlirough a broad space beneath the Hgament; and lastly, in a canal formed partly by the astragalus, the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis. The canals for the tendons are lined bj'^ separate synovial membranes. The external annular ligament extends from the extremity of the external malleolus to the outer sui-face of the os calcis : it binds down the tendons of the Peronei longus et brevis in their passage beneath the outer ankle. The two tendons are enclosed in one synovial sheath. 8. Dcyrsal Region (fig. 546) Extensor brevis digitorum. The fascia on the dorsum of the foot (fascia dorsaHs pedis) is a thin membranous layer, continuous above with the anterior margin of the lower part of the annular ligament; on either side it blends with the lateral portions of the plantar fascia; anteriorly it forms a sheath for the tendons on the dorsum of the foot. The Extensor brevis digitorum (fig. 546) is a broad, thin muscle, which arises from the fore part of the upper and outer sui-faces of the os calcis, in front of the groove for the Peroneus brevis ; from the external calcaneo- astragaloid ligament; and from the common limb of the Y-shaped portion of the anterior annular ligament. It passes obliquely across the dorsum of the foot, and terminates in four tendons. The iimermost, which is the largest, is inserted into the dorsal surface of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, crossing the dorsalis pedis artery; the other three, into the outer sides of the long Extensor tendons of the second, tlurd, and fourth toes. Nerves.—It is supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. Actions.—The Extensor brevis digitormn extends the phalanges of the four inner toes, but in the great toe acts only on the first phalanx. The obliquity of its direction coimteracts the oblique movement given to the toes by the long Extensor, so that when both muscles act, the toes are evenly extended". 9. Plantar Region The plantar fascia (aponeurosis plantaris) is of great strength, and consists of pearly-white glistening fibres, disposed, for the most part, longitudinally: it is divided into a central and two lateral portions.