1139 THE STOMACH long conical diverticulum of the stomach protrudes from the external wound, and tho parietal peritoneum and the posterior laj'er of the sheath of the Rectus are sutured to it. A second incision is made through the skin, over the margin of the costal cartilage, above and a httle to the outer side of the first incision. A track is made under the skin through the subcutaneous tissue fi'om the one opening to the other, and the diverticulum of the stomach is di-awn along this track by means of the sutm'e inserted into it, so that its apex appears at the second opening. A small perforation is now made into the stomach through this protruding apex, and its margins are carefull3' and accurately sutm-ed to the edge of the external wound. The remainder of this incision and the whole of the fu-st incision are then closed in the ordinary way and the wound di'essed. In cases of gastric ulcer perforation sometimes takes place, and this was formerly regarded as an almost fatal complication. In the present day, by opening the abdomen and closing the perforation, which is generally situated on the anterior surface of tlie stomach, a considerable number of cases are cm'ed, provided the operation is done not longer than twelve or fifteen hours after the perforation has taken place. The opening is best closed by bringing the peritoneal surfaces on either side into apposition by means of Lembert's sutures. Excision of the pylorus has occasionally been performed, but the results of this operation are by no means favourable, and, in cases of cancer of the pylorus, before operative proceedings are undertaken, the tumoui- has become so fixed and has so far implicated sm-rounding parts that removal of the pylorus is impossible and gastro- enterostomy has to be substituted. The object of this operation is to make a fistulous communication between the stomach, on the cardiac side of the cUsease, and the small intestine, as high up as is possible. In cases of cancer of the stomach involving other parts than the pylorus, the question of removing the whole or greater part of the stomach has to be considered. This operation has been performed by Schlatter and others with success. Hypertrophy and spasm of the ckcumferential muscular coat of the pylorus coming on during the first few weeks or months of life, and somewhat erroneously described as congenital hypertrophic stenosis of the pylorus, is a rare but serious disorder of infancy. It is characterised by abdominal pains and obstinate vomiting coming on after food has been given, and gastric peristalsis can be observed by inspection of the child's epigastrium after it has been fed and before vomiting has occurred. Progressive wasting for want of nourishment, and death from exhaustion, tend to ensue. Treatment should be by washing out the stomach, and the administration at frequent intervals of small quantities of easily digested food, so as to minimise u-ritation of the gastric mucous membrane. Surgical interference — pyloroplasty or pylorectomy — entailing a severe operation, gives less favourable results. The stomach is seldom ruptured from external violence, on accoimt of its protected position. If it occurs, it is when the organ is distended with food. The stomach is some- times injured in gunshot wounds. Tliere is intense shock and severe pain, localised at first at the seat of the injury, but soon radiating over the whole abdomen. The treatment consists in opening the peritoneal cavity, clearing away all the extruded contents of the stomach, and repairing the rent. The Small Intestine (Intestinum tenue) The small intestine is a convoluted tube, extending from the pylorus to the ileo-caecal valve, where it terminates in the large intestine. It is about twenty feet in length,* and gradually diminislies in size from its commence- ment to its termination. It is contained in the central and lower parts of the abdominal cavity, and is surrounded above and at the sides by the large intestine ; a portion of it extends below the brim of the pelvis and lies in front of the rectum. It is in relation, in front, \ntli the great omentum and abdominal parietes, and is connected to the vertebral column by a fold of peri- toneum, the mesentery. The small intestine is divisible into three portions : the duodenum, the jejunum, and ileum. The duodenum (figs. 940, 970) has received its name from being about equal m length to the breadth of twelve fingers (ten inches). It is the shortest, the -ividest, and the most fixed part of tlie small intestine, and lias no mesentery, bemg only partially covered by peritoneum. Its course presents a remarkable curve, somewhat of the shape of an imperfect circle, so that its termination is not far removed from its starting-point. * Treves states that, in one hundred cases, the average length of the small intestine in tlie ailiilt male was 22 lect G inclies, and in the adult female 28 feet 4 inches ; but that it varies very much, the extremes in the male being 31 feet 10 inches in one case, and 15 feet 6 inches in another, a difference of over 15 feet. He states that he has convinced himself that the length of the bowel is mdependent, in the adult, of age, height, and weight. 4 D 2