THE PLEURiE 1U75 and pericardium, is caUed the parietal layer of the pleura (pleura panetahs). 1 he smce bet^yeen these two layers is caUed the cavity oj the pleura (cavum pleurae), buTft must be borne in mind that in the healthy condition the two layers are in contact and that there is no real cavity. When the lung becomes coUapsed a separation of it from the wall of the chest takes place and a cavity appears Each pleura is a shut sac, one occupying the right the other the left half of the tliorax • and they are perfectly separate from each other. The two pleural do not meet in the middle of the chest, excepting anteriorly opposite the second and thii-d pieces of the sternum. The space left between them contains aU the thoracic viscera excepting the lungs, and is named the mediastinum.. Different portions of the parietal pleura have received special names which indicate their position : thus, that portion which Unes the inner surfaces of the ribs and Intercostal muscles is the costal pleura (pleura costahs) ; that which Fig 889.—Front view of chest, showing relations of pleur£B and kings to the chest-wall The blue lines indicate the lines of the reflection of the pleurae ; the red, the outhnes ot the lungs and their fissures. A. Line of pleural reflection on to Diaphragm Lower edge of lung coats the convex surface of the Diaphragm is the diaphragmatic pleura (pleura diaphragmatica) ; tliat which rises into the neck, over the summit of the lung, is the cervical pleura (cupula pleuraj) ; and tliat which is applied to the adjacent structures in the mediastinum is tlie mediastinal pleura (pleura mediastinalis). Reflections of the pleura (figs. 889, 890).—Commencing at the sternum, the pleura passes outwards, lines the costal cartilages, the inner surfaces of the ribs and Intercostal muscles, and at the back part of the thorax passes over the gangliated cord of tlie sympathetic and its branches, and is reflected upon the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, where it is separated by a narrow interval, the posterior mediastinum (cavum mediastinale posterius), from tlie opposite pleura. From the vertebral column the pleura passes to the side of 3 z 2