THE KIDNEYS 1183 Tlie inferior extremity (extremitas inferior), directed a little outwards as ^^■ell as dmvinvards, is smaller and tliinner than the superior. It extends to within two inclies of the crest of the iUum. , „ ^, The relative position of the main structures m the hilus is as tollows : tlie vein is in front, the artery in the middle, and the ureter behind and directed downwards. Frequently, however, brandies of both artery and vein are placed behind the ureter. j -i. , Fixation of the kidney (figs. 978, 979).—The kidney and its vessels are imbedded in a mass of Fig. 978.—Sagittal section tkrough posterior abdo- minal wall, showing the relations of the capsule of the kidney. (After Gerota.) Eleventh rib Twi-lfth rib Posterior lamella of fascia' renalia Paranephric body Peritoneum Vessels ofliiliis of kichiei/ ) Section of colon fatty tissue, termed the capsula adiposa, which is thickest at the margin of the Iddney and is prolonged through the liUus into the renal sinus. The kidney and the capsula adiposa are en- closed in a sheath of fibrous ti.ssue continuous with the sub- peritoneal fascia, and named the fascia renalis. At the outer border of the kidney the fascia renalis splits into an anterior and a posterior layer. The anterior layer is carried inwards in front of the kidney and its vessels, and is continuous over the aorta with the corresponding layer of the opposite side. The posterior layer extends inwards beliind the kidney and blends with the fascia on the Quadratus lumborum and Psoas and through tliis fascia is attached to the vertebral column. At the upper margin of the suprarenal gland the two layers of the fascia renalis fuse, and unite with the fascia of the Diaphragm ; below they remain separate, and are gradually lost in the subperitoneal fascia of the iliac fossa. The fascia renalis is connected to the fibrous capsule of the kidney by numerous trabeculse, which traverse the capsula adiposa, and are strongest near the lower end of the organ. Behind the fascia renalis is a considerable quantity of fat, which constitutes tlie paranephric body. The kidney is held in position partly through the attachments of the fascia renalis and partly by the apposition of the neighbouring viscera. General structure of the kidney.—^The kidney is invested by a capsule of fibrous tissue (tunica fibrosa), which forms a firm, smooth covering to the organ. The capsule can be easily stripped off, but in doing so, numerous fine processes of connective tissue and small blood-vessels are torn through. Beneath this coat, a thin wide-meshed network of unstriped muscular fibre forms an incomplete covering to the organ. When the capsule is stripped off, the surface of the kidney is found to be smooth and even, and of a deep red colour. In infants, fissures extending for some depth may be seen on the surface of the organ, a remnant of the lobular construction of the gland. Tlie Iridney is dense in textm'e, but is easily lacerable by mechanical force. If a vertical section of the kidney be made from its convex to its concave border, and the loose tissue and fat removed from around the vessels and the excretory duct it will be seen that the kidney consists of a central cavity sm-rounded at all parts but one by the proper kidney-substance (fig. 980). This central cavity is called the renal sinus, and is lined by a prolongation of the capsule, which is continued round the lips of the hilus. Through the hilus the blood-vessels of the kidney and its excretory duct pass, and therefore these structures, upon entering or leaving the kidney, are contained within the sinus. The excretory duct or ureter begins by several short truncated branches termed calyces or infundibula (calyces renales), which unite to form two or three short tubes ; tliese in turn expand into a wde funnel-.shaped sac named