659 VERTEBRAL ARTERY scapular, and posterior scapular branches of the subclavian, from all of which it received so great an influx of blood as to dilate it to three times its natural size.' * Allien a ligature is applied to the first part of the subclavian artery, the collateral circulation is carried on by : 1, the anastomosis between the superior and inferior thyroid ; •2, the anastomosis of the two vcrtebrals ; 3, the anastomosis of the internal mammary with the deep epigastric and the aortic intercostals ; 4, the superior intercostal anasto- mosing with the aortic intercostals ; 5, the profunda cervicis anastomosing with the princeps cervicis ; 6, the scapular branches of the thyroid axis anastomosing vnth the branches of the axillary ; and 7, the thoracic branches of the axillary anastomosing with the aortic intercostals. Branches.—The branches given ofE from the subclavian artery are : Vertebral. Thyi-oid axis. Internal mammary. Superior intercostal. On the left side all four branches generally arise from the first portion of the vessel; but on the right side (fig. 591) the superior intercostal usually springs fi'om the second portion of the vessel. On both sides of the body, the first three branches arise close together at the inner margin of the Scalenus anticus ; in the majority of cases, a free interval of from half an inch to an inch exists between the commencement of tlie artery and the origin of the nearest branch. 1. The vertebral artery (a. vertebralis) is the first branch of the subclavian, and arises from the upper and back part of the first portion of the vessel. It is surrounded by a plexus of nerve fibres derived from the inferior cervical gangUon of the sympathetic trunk, and ascends through the foramina in the transverse processes of the upper six cervical vertebrae ; f it then winds behind the superior articular process of the Fig. 591.—Plan of the branches of the right subclavian artery. atlas and, entering the skuU through the foramen magnum, unites, at the lower border of the pons VaroUi, with the vessel of the opposite side to form the basUar artery. Relations.—The vertebral artery may be divided into four parts. The first fart runs upwards and backwards between the Longus colli and the Scalenus anticus. In front of it are the internal jugular and vertebral veins, and it is crossed by the inferior thyroid artery; the left vertebral is crossed by the thoracic duct also. Behind it are the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the sympathetic cord. The second fart runs upwards through the foramina in the transverse processes of the upper six cervical vertebrae, and is surrounded by a plexus of veins which unite to form the vertebral vein at the lower part of the neck. It is situated in front of the trimks of the cervical nerves, and pursues an ahnost vertical course as far as the transverse process of the atlas, above which it runs upwards and outwards to the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas. The third fart issues from the latter foramen on the inner side of the Rectus lateralis muscle, and inclines backwards and inwards beliind the superior articular process of the atlas ; it lies in the groove on the upper surface of the posterior arch of the atlas, and enters the spinal canal by passing beneath the posterior occipito- atlantal ligament. This part of the artery is covered by the Complexus muscle and contained in the suboccifital triangle—a triangular space bounded by the Rectus capitis posticus major and the Superior and Inferior obhque muscles. The suboccipital nerve lies between the artery and the posterior arch * Guy's Hospital J/apnrts, vol. i. 1836. Case of axillary aneurysm, in which Aston Key had tied the subclavian artery on the outer edge of the Scalenus anticus, twelve years previously. t The vertebral artery sometimes enters the foramen in the transverse process of the fifth vertebra. Smyth, who tied this artery in the living subject, found it, in one of his dissections, passing into the foramen in the seventh vertebra. xr tr 2