715 FEMORAL ARTERY The second perforating artery (a. perforans secunda), larger than the first, pierces the tendons of the Adductor bre\'is and Adductor magnus muscles, and divides into ascending and descending branches, which supply the flexor muscles of the thigh, anastomosing with the first and third perforating. The second artery frequently arises in common with the first. The nutrient artery of the femur (a. nutricia femoris) is usually given off from this branch. The third fcrfornling artery (a. perforans tertia) is given off below the Adductor brevis; it pierces the Adductor magnus, and divides into branches which supply the flexor muscles of the thigh; anastomosing above with the higher perforating arteries, and below with the terminal branches of the profunda and the muscular branches of the popliteal. The nutrient artery of the femur may arise from this branch. The termination of the profunda artery, already described, is sometimes termed the fourth perforating artery. Numerous muscular branches arise from the profunda ; some of these end in the Adductor muscles, others pierce the Adductor magnus, give branches to the hamstrings, and anastomose with the internal circumflex artery and with upper muscular branches of the popliteal. The anastomotica magna (a. genu suprema) (fig. 618) arises from the femoral artery just before it passes through the tendinous opening in the Adductor magnus muscle, and immediately divides into a superficial and a deep branch. The superficial branch (ramus saphenus) pierces the aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal, and accompanies the long saphenous nerve to the inner side of the knee. It passes between the Sartorius and Gracilis muscles, and, piercing the fascia lata, is distributed to the integument of the upper and inner part of the leg, anastomosing with the inferior internal articular artery. The deep branch (ramus musculoarticularis) descends in the substance of the Vastus internus, lying in front of the tendon of the Adductor magnus, to the inner side of the knee, where it anastomoses with the superior internal articular artery and anterior recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. A branch from this vessel crosses outwards above the articular surface of the femur, forming an anastomotic arch with the superior external articular artery, and supplying branches to the knee-joint. The Popliteal Space (fig. 620) Boundaries.—The popliteal space, or ham, is a lozenge-shaped space, at the back jjart of the knee-joint. Above, it is bounded externally by the Biceps and internally by the Semitendinosus and Semimembranosus ; below, it is limited by the outer head of the Gastrocnemius and the Plantaris externally and by the inner head of the Gastrocnemius internally. The floor is formed by the lower part of the posterior surface of the shaft of the femur, the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, the upper end of the tibia, and the fascia covering the Popliteus muscle ; the space is covered in by the fascia lata. Contents.—The popliteal space contains the popliteal vessels and nerves, together with the termination of the external saphenous vein, the lower part of the small sciatic nerve, the articular branch from the obturator nerve, a few small lymphatic glands, and a considerable quantity of loose adipose tissue. The internal popliteal nerve descends in the middle line of the space, lying under the deep fascia and crossing the vessels from without mwards. The external popliteal nerve descends on the outer side of the upper part of the space, close to the tendon of the Biceps muscle. At the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, the vein being superficial to the artery and united to it by dense areolar tissue ; the vem is a thick-waUed vessel, and lies at first to the outer side of the artery, and then crosses it to gam the inner side below ; sometimes it is double, the artery lying between t\yo vena3 comites, which are usually comiected by short transverse branches. J-he articular branch from the obturator nerve descends upon the artery to supply the knee. The popliteal lymphatic glands, four or five in number, surround the artery : one usually lies sujoerficial to the vessel ; another is situated between it and the bone ; and the rest arc placed on either side 01 it. Arising from the artery, and passing off from it at right angles, are its articular branches. ^> F 6 6 = .