751 SPINAL VEINS The Spinal Veins (figs. 640, 641) The spinal veins may be arranged into four groups, viz. : 1. The extra-spinal veins. 2. The iutra-spinal veins, between the vertebrae and the dura mater. 3. The veins of the bodies of the vertebrae. 4. The veins of the spinal cord. 1. The extra-spinal veins form an anterior and a posterior spinal plexus. The anterior spinal plexus (plexus venosi vertebrales anteriores) is situated on the front of the bodies of the vertebrae, and is best marked in the cervical region. It consists of relatively small Fig. 640.—Transverse section of a thoracic vertebra, showing the spinal veins. Posterior spinal plexus vessels, which anastomose with the intraspinal veins and the veins from the bodies of the vertebrae, and open into the deep cervical, intercostal, lumbar, and lateral sacral veins in the re- spective regions of the vertebral column. The posterior spinal plexus (plexus venosi vertebrales pos- teriores) receives tributaries fi'om the integument of the back and from the muscles in the vertebral grooves. It forms a complicated network, which surromids the spinous processes, the laminae, and the transverse and articular processes of all the vertebrae. It communicates with the intra- spinal veins by branches which perforate the ligamenta subflava and others which pass through the intervertebral foramina. It terminates by joining the ver- tebral veins in the neck, the intercostal veins in the thorax, and the lumbar and sacral veins in the loins and pelvis. 2. The intra-spinal veins (w. spinales internae) are situated between the dura mater and the vertebrae. They consist of two longitudinal plexuses, one of which runs along the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae {anterior longitudinal spinal veins); the other (posterior Fig. 641.—Vertical section of two thoracic longitudinal spinal veins) is vertebriE, showing the spinal veins. pieced on the inner or anterior surfaces of the laminae of the vertebrae. The anterior longitudinal spinal veins consist of two large, tortuous veins, which extend from the foramen magnum to the base of the coccyx, being placed one on either side of the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, along the mar- gin of the posterior common ligament. They commiinicate through the foramen magnum with the basilar and occipital , . . sinuses, and give off branches Which umte above the atlas to form the commencement of the vertebral vein. They W f""^™^'^^^^*^ '^^tli one another opposite each vertebra by a transverse trunk. Which passes beneath the posterior common ligament; these transverse branches receive the vena; basiverlebrales horn the interior of the vertebral bodies. The anterior longitudinal spinal veins are least developed in the cervical and sacral