Fig. 592.—The scapular and circumflex arteries. INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY 663 and Scaleni muscles, and in triangle, to the anterior margin of the Trapezius muscle, beneath which it divides into two branches, the swperjicial cervical and the foslerior scapular. It crosses in front of the phrenic nerve front of or between the divi- sions of the brachial plexus, and is covered by the Platvsma, Sterno-mastoid, Omo-hyoid, and Trapezius muscles. The superficial cervical (ramus ascendens) ascends Ijeneath the anterior margin of the Trapezius, distri- buting branches to it, and to the neighbouring muscles and glands in the neck, and anastomoses with the super- ficial branch of the arteria princeps cervicis. The posterior scapular (ramus descendeus) (fig. 592) passes beneath the Levator angidi scapulae to the superior angle of the scapida, and then descends along the posterior border of that bone as far as the inferior angle. It is covered by the Rhomboid muscles, supplying them and the Latissimus dorsi and Trapezius, and anastomosing with the suprascapular and sub- scapular arteries, and with the posterior branches of some of the intercostal arteries. Peculiarities.—The superficial cervical frequently arises as a separate branch from the thyi'oid axis ; and the posterior scapular, from the third, more rarely from the second, part of the subclavian. 3. The internal mammary (a. mammaria interna) (fig. 593) arises from the under surface of the first portion of the subclavian artery, opposite the thyi-oid axis. It descends behind the cartilages of the upper six ribs at a distance of about half an inch from the margm of the sternum, and at the level of the sixth intercostal space divides into the musculo-phrenic and superior epigastric arteries. Relations.—It is directed at first downwards, forwards, and inwards behind the inner end of the clavicle, the subclavian and internal jugular veins, and the first costal cartilage. As it enters the thorax it is crossed from without inwards by the phrenic nerve, and passes forwards close to the outer side of the innominate vein. Below the first costal cartilage it descends almost vertically to its point of bifurcation. It is covered in front by the Pectoralis major and the cartilages of the upper six ribs with their intervening intercostal muscles, and is crossed by the terminal portions of the upper six intercostal nerves. Behind, it rests on the pleura, as far as the third costal cartilage ; below this level, upon the Triangularis sterni muscle. It is accompanied by a pair of veins : these unite above to form a single vessel, which passes to the inner side of the artery and ends in the corresponding innominate vein. The branches of the internal mammary are : Comes nervi phrenici. Anterior intercostal. Mediastinal. Perforating. Pericardial. Musculo-phrenic. Sternal. Superior epigastric. The comes nervi phrenici (a. perlcardiacophrenica) is a long slender branch, which accompanies the phrenic nerve, between the pleura and pericardium, to the Diaphragm, to which it is distributed ; it anastomoses with the other phrenic arteries from the internal mammary and abdominal aorta.