997 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES ganglia of the sympathetic, and the cardiac branches of the recurrent laryngeal and°vagus. The only cardiac nerves which do not enter into the formation of this'plexus are the superior cardiac branch of the left sympathetic, and the inferior cervical cardiac branch from the left vagus, which pass to tlie superficial plexus. The branches from the right side of this plexus pass, some in front ot, and others behind, the right pulmonary artery ; the former, the more numerous, transmit a few filaments to the anterior pulmonary plexus, and are then continued onwards to form part of the right coronary plexus ; tliose behind the puhuonary artery distribute a few filaments to tlie right auricle, and are then continued onwards to form part of the left coronary plexus. The left side of the plexus is connected with the superficial cardiac plexus, and gives filaments to the left auricle of the heart, and to the anterior pulmonary plexus, and is then continued to form the greater part of the left coronary plexus. The left coronary plexus (plexus coronarius posterior) is larger than the right, and accompanies the left coronary artery ; it is chiefly formed by filaments prolonged from the left side of the deep cardiac plexus, and by a few from the right side. It gives branches to the left auricle and ventricle. The right coronary plexus (plexus coronarius anterior) is formed partly from the superficial and partly from the deep cardiac plexus. It accompanies the right coronary artery, and gives branches to the right auricle and ventricle. Epigastric or Solar Plexus (figs. 819, 820) The epigastric or solar plexus supplies the viscera in the abdominal cavity. It consists of a great netM'ork of nerves and ganglia situated behind the stomach and lesser sac of the peritoneum, and in front of the aorta and crura of the Diaphragm. It surrounds the coeliac axis and root of the superior mesenteric artery, extending downwards as low as the pancreas, and outwards to the suprarenal glands. This plexus, and the ganglia connected with it, receive the great and small splanchnic nerves of both sides, and some filaments from the right vagus. It distributes filaments, which accomjiany, under the name of plexuses, all the branches from the front of the abdominal aorta. Of the ganglia of which the solar plexus is partly composed the principal are the two semilunar ganglia (ganglia cosliaca), which are situated one on either side of the plexus, and are the largest peripheral ganglia in the body. They are large irregular gangUform masses, formed by the aggregation of smaller ganglia, having interspaces between them. They are situated in front of the crura of the Diaphragm, close to the suprarenal glands, that on the right side lying behind the inferior vena cava. The upper part of each ganglion is joined by the great splanchnic nerve, and to the inner side of each the branches of the solar plexus are connected. The lower portion of each semi- lunar gangUon is segmented off, and is named the aortico-renal ganglion. This receives the lesser splanchnic nerve, and gives off the greater part of the renal plexus. From the epigastric or solar plexus are derived the following : Phrenic or Diaphragmatic plexus. ^Gastric plexus. Suprarenal plexus. Coeliac plexus ^ Hepatic plexus. Renal plexus. i Splenic plexus. Spermatic plexus. Superior mesenteric plexus. Aortic plexus. The phrenic plexus (plexus phrenicus) accompanies the inferior phrenic artery to the Diaphragm, some filaments passing to the suprarenal gland. It arises from the upper part of the semilunar ganglion, 'and is larger on thd right than on the left side. It receives one or two branches from the phrenic nerve. At the point of junction of the right phrenic plexus Avith the phrenic nerve is a small ganglion [ganglion phrenicum). This ganglion distributes branches to the inferior vena cava, the suprarenal gland, and the hepatic plexus. There is no ganglion on the left side. The suprarenal plexus (plexus suprarenalis) is formed by branches from the solar plexus, from the semilunar ganghon, and from the phrenic and great