BONE 35 and if the patient survived, a tubular sequestrum of tlio divided shaft subsequently bep^ated^^^ understanding of the epiphyses is of the utmost possible importance to the student, and greatly simplifies many of the problems in the pathology of bone disease. Speaking generally, the long bones have at either end an epiphysis from the cartilage of which groAvth occurs, and hence the shaft of the bone increases in length from both ends. In every case, however, one epiphysis is the more active, and also continues in its activity for a longer time. This actively growing epiphysis is always the one from which the nutrient foramen in the diaphysis points, and it unites to the shaft at a later date. It follows, therefore, that the increase in length of a long bono is largely dependent on this epiphysis, and hence anything which interferes with the gi'owth from this epiphysial line at any time prior to the union of the epiphysis with the shaft must residt in a cessation of gro^vth in length of that bone. Thus when dealing with disease in the neigh- bourhood of this actively growing epiphysis very great care should be taken not to excise or destroy its line of union with tlie shaft. These epiphyses are particularly prone to become the seat of tuberculous disease, which especially tends to attack the soft, highly vascular cancellous tissue. Again, the actively growing epiphysial lino is the portion of a long bone which is in the vast majority of oases afl'ected by tumour growth in bone, whether it be innocent or malignant, the former (viz. osteoma) usually appearing about puberty, and the latter (viz sarcoma) usually towards the end of the active period of epiphysial gi'owth. Epiphysial growth, moreover, has to be considered by the surgeon when he is about to amputate in a child. If the amputation is being performed through a bone, the actively gi-o\\Tng epiphysis of which is at the upper end, and which will continue to grow for many years (i.e. humerus and tibia), it will be necessary to make allowance for this and to cut the flaps long ; as otherwse, owing to continued gi-owth, the sawn end of the bone will ultimately project through the stump, and a condition known as ' conical stump' wiU result. This requires removal of a further portion of the bone. An inflammatory condition termed acute epiphysitis also occurs, although it is not so frequent as the acute infective conditions of the diaphysis, owing to the fi-eer blood supply of the epiphysis ; in late years it has been shown that acute epiphysitis in children is very frequently the result of a pneumococcal infection, and it may imss on to complete separation of the epiphysis. In this connection it is worthy of note that some of the epiphysial lines lie entirely wthin the capsules of their corresponding joints, in other cases entirely without the capsules; and it must follow that in the former case epiphysial disease, acute or chronic, becomes, ipso facto, practically synonymous with disease of that joint. The best examples of intra-articular epiphyses are those for the head of the femur and head of the humerus, and the vast majority of aD eases of tuberculous disease of the hip start as a tuberculous epiphysitis about the intra-articular epiphysial line of the femur ; again cases of acute septic arthritis of the shoulder or hip joints generally have their origins in these intra-articular epiphysial lines, and often result in separation of the affected epiphysis. The other class, or extra-articular epiphyses, when diseased, do not tend to involve the neighbouring joint so readily ; and it should be the surgeon's duty to keep the disease from involving the joint. For example, the trochanteric epiphysis of the femur is extra- articular as regards the hip joint, and the epiphysial line of the head of the tibia is well below the level of the knee joint, and should a chronic tuberculous abscess form in the latter situation, it should be attacked from the outside before it has time to sjiread up and involve the cartilage of the head of the tibia. It is therefore of great surgical mterest to note in every case the relations which the various epiphysial lines bear to their respective joint capsules. A knowledge of the exact periods when the epiphyses become joined to the shaft is often of great importance in medico-legal inquiries. It also aids the surgeon in the dia- gnosis of many of the injuries to which the joints are liable ; for it not infrequently happens that, on the application of severe force to a joint, the epiphysis becomes separated from the shaft, and such injuries may be mistaken for fracture or dislocation. PIGMENT In various parts of the body pigment is found ; most frequently in epithelial cells and in the cells of connective tissue. Pigmented epithelial cells are found in the external layer of the retiiia, on the posterior surface of the iris, iu the olfactory region of the nose, and in the membranous labyrinth of the car. Pigment is likewise found in the cells of the deeper layers of the cuticle and in the hairs ; in the skin of the coloured races it is abundantly present, but in the white races it is well marked only in the areolaj round the nipples and in irregular coloured patches. In the conneclive-tissue cells pigment is frequently met with in the lower vertebrates. In man it is found in the choroid coat of the eye (fig. 43), and D 2