MYOLOGY 478 body of the mandible, and extending, in a curved form, from the mastoid process of the temporal to the symphysis menti. The posterior belly (vent^-r posterior), longer than the anterior, arises from the digastric groove on tlie inner side of the mastoid process, and passes doMTiwards, forwards, and inwards. Tlie anterior belly (venter anterior) arises from a depression on the inner side of the lower border of the mandible, close to the symphysis, and passes downM'ards and backwards. The two bellies terminate in the central tendon which perforates the Stylo-hyoid muscle, and is held in connection with the side of the body and the greater cornu of the hyoid bone by a fibrous loop, lined by a synovial membrane. A broad aponeurotic layer is given off from the tendon of the Digastric on either side, to be attached to the body and greater cornu of the hyoid bone ; this is termed the suprahyoid aponeurosis. It forms a strong layer of fascia between the anterior portions of the two muscles, and a firm investment for the deeper muscles of the supra-hyoid region. The Digastric muscle divides the anterior superior triangle of the neck into smaller triangles : (1) the submaxillary triangle, bounded above by the lower border of the body of the mandible and a hne drawn from its angle to the mastoid process, below by the posterior belly of the Digastric and the Stylo-hyoid muscles, in front by the anterior belly of the Digastric; (2) the carotid triangle, bounded above by the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid, behind by the Sterno-mastoid, below by the Omo-hyoid ; (3) the suprahyoid or sub- mental triangle, bounded externally by the anterior belly of the Digastric, internally by the middle line of the neck from the hyoid bone to the symphysis menti and inferiorly by the body of the hyoid bone. Relations.—The Digastric is in relation by its superficial surface with the Platysma. Sterno-mastoid, part of the Splenius, Trachelo-mastoid, mastoid process, Stylo-hyoid. and the parotid gland. The deep surface of the anterior belly Ues on the Mylo-hyoid : the deep surface of the posterior belly on the Stylo-glossus, Stylo-pharyngeus, and Hyo-glossus muscles, the external carotid artery and its occipital, lingual, facial, and ascending pharjmgeal branches, the internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and hypoglossal nerve. The Stylo-hyoid (m. stylohyoideus) is a small, slender muscle, lying in front of, and above, the posterior belly of the Digastric. It arises from the back and outer surface of the styloid process, near the base ; and, passing downwards and forwards, is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone, at its junction with the greater cornu, and just above the Omo-hjJ^oid. This muscle is perforated, near its insertion, by the tendon of the Digastric. The stylo-hyoid ligament.—In connection with the Stylo-hyoid muscle a ligamentous band, the stylo-hyoid ligament, may be described. It is a fibrous cord, often containing a little cartilage in its centre, which continues the styloid process down to the hyoid bone, being attached to the tip of the former and the lesser cornu of the latter. It is often partially ossified, and in many animals forms a distinct bone, the epihyal. The Mylo-hyoid (m. myloliyoideus) is a flat, triangular muscle, situated immediately above the anterior belly of the Digastric, and formmg, with its fellow of the opposite side, a muscular floor for the cavity of the mouth. It arises from the whole length of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the mandibli". extending from the symphysis in front to the last molar tooth behmd. Tiie posterior fibres pass inwards and slightly do^^•nwards, to be inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. The middle and anterior fibres are inserted into a median fibrous raphe extending from the symphysis menti to the hyoid boiu-. where they join at an angle with the fibres of the opposite muscle. This median raphe is sometimes wanting ; the muscular fibres of the two sides are then directly continuous with one another. Relations.—The mylo-hyoid is in relation by its superficial or under s«r/occ with the Platysma, the anterior bellv of the Digastric, the suprahyoid aponeurosis, the superficial part of the submaxillary gland, the facial and submental vessels, and the mylo-liyoid vessels and nerve. By its deep or superior surface it is in relation with the Gemo-hyoid. part of the Hyo-glossus. and Stylo-glossus muscles, the hypoglossal and lingual nerves, the submaxillary ganglion, the sublingual gland, the deep portion of the submaxillary gland and Wharton's duct, the sublingual and ranine vessels, and the buccal mucous membrane.