SPLANCHNOLOGY 1230 is of the stratified squamous variety'. The submucous tissue is very loose, and contains numerous large veins, which l)y their anastomoses form a ])iexus, together with smooth muscular fibres derived from the muscular coat; it is regarded by Gussenbauer as an erectile tissue. It contains a numljcr of mucous crypts, but no true glands. The muscttlur coal consists of two layers : an external longitudinal, which is by far the stronger, and an internal circular layer. The longitudinal fibres are continuous with the sui)erlicial muscular fibres of the uterus. The strongest fa.sciculi are tho.se attached to the recto-vesical fascia on each side. The two layers are not distinctly separable from each other, but are connected by obhque decussating fasciculi, which pass from the one layer to the other. In addition to this, the vagina at its lower end is surrounded by a band of striped muscular fibres, the Sphincter vagince (see page 526). External to the muscular coat is a layer of connective tissue, containing a large plexus of blood-vessels. The erectile tissue consists of a layer of loose connective tissue, situated lietween the mucous membrane and the muscular coat; imbedded in it is a plexus of large veins, and numerous bundles of unstriped muscular fibres, derived from the cu-cular muscular layer. The arrangement of the veins is similar to that found in other erectile tissues. External Organs (fig. 1018) The external genital organs of the female are : the mons Veneris, the labia majora et minora, the clitoris, the bulbus vestibuli, and the glands of Bartholin. The term vulva or pudendum (pudendum muliebre), as generally applied, includes all these parts. Fig. 1018.—External genital organs of female. The labia minora have been drawn apart. The mons Veneris is the rounded ominence in front of the pwhk symphysis, formed by a collection of fatty tissue beneati> the integument. It becomes covered vvith hair at the time of puberty. Tlie labia majora (labia, majora ]nidendi) are two prominent longitudinal cutaneous folds wiiicii extend downwards and backwards from the mons