THE EPITHALAMUS 849 is connected internally with the upper quadrigeniinal body by the superior brachium. It is of a dark colour, and presents a laminated arrangement consisting of alternate layers of grey and white matter. It receives numerous fibres from the optic tract, while other fibres of tliis tract pass over or through it into the pulvinar. Its cells are large and pigmented ; their axons pass to the visual area in the occipital part of the cerebral cortex. The upper quadi'igeminal body, the plilvinar and the external geniculate body receive many fibres from the optic tracts, and are therefore intimately connected with sight, constituting what are termed the lower visual centres. Extirpation of the eyes in new-ly born animals entails an arrest of the develop- ment of these centres, but has no effect on the internal geniculate or lower quadi-igeminal bodies. Moreover, the latter are well-developed in the mole, an animal in which the upper quadi-igeminal body is rudimentary. The epithalamus comprises tlie trigonum liabenulse, the pineal body, and the posterior commissure. The trigonum Imhenuloe is a smaU depressed triangular area situated in front of the upper quadrigeminal body and on the lateral aspect of the posterior part of the stria pineaHs. It contains a group of nerve-ceUs termed the ganglion Jiabenulce. Fibres enter it from the stria pinealis, and others, forming what is termed the superior commissure (commissura habenularum), pass across the middle line to the corresponding ganglion of the ojDposite side. Most of its fibres are, however, directed downwards and form a bundle, the fasciculus retroflexus of Meynert, which passes on the mesial side of the red nucleus, and, after decussating with the corresponding fasciculus of the opposite side, ends in the gangUon interpedunculare. The pineal body (corpus pineale) is a small, conical, reddish-grey body which lies in the depression between the upper quadrigeminal bodies. It is placed beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum, but is separated from this by the velum interpositum, the lower layer of which envelops it. It measures about one-third of an inch in length, and its base, directed forwards, is attached by a stalk or peduncle of white matter. The stalk of the pineal body divides anteriorly mto two laminae, a dorsal and a ventral, separated from one another by the recessus pinealis of the third ventricle. The ventral lamina is con- tinuous with the posterior commissure ; the dorsal lamina is continuous with the commissura habenularum and divides into two strands, named the stri* modullares, wliich run forwards, one on either side, along the junction of the mesial and upper surfaces of the thalamus to blend in front with the anterior pillars of the fornix. Structure.—The pineal body is destitute of nervous matter, and consists of follicles lined by epithehum and enveloped by connective tissue. These follicles contam a variable quantity of gritty material named brain sand, composed of phosphate and carbonate of calcium, phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, and a little animal matter. The pineal body is generally believed to be the bomologue of the pineal eye of lizards. In these animals it is attached by an elongated stalk and projects through an aperture in the roof of the cranium. Its extremity lies immediately under the epidermis, and, on microscopic examination, presents in a rudimentary fashion structures similar to those lound m the eyeball. Recent observations tend to the conclusion that the pineal body aiiaes as a paired structure, probably serially homologous with the paired eyes. P'^^^^^^o^ commissure (commissura posterior) is a rounded band of ■ white fibres which stretches across the middle line on the dorsal aspect of the ' upper end of the Sylvian aqueduct. Its fibres acquire their medullary sheaths I early, but their connections have not been definitely determined. Most of them nave their origm m a nucleus, the nucleus of the posterior commissure or nucleus < 0/ JJarkschewitsch, which lies m the central grey matter of the upper end of ine Sylvian aqueduct, in front of tlie nucleus of the tliird nerve. Some = are probably derived from the posterior part of the thalamus and the superior quadrigeminal body, while others are believed to be continued aoNvnwards mto the posterior longitudinal bundle. ir,^ M hypothalamus (fig. 721) includes the subthalamic tegmental region ma the structures which form the greater part of the floor of the third 3i