1028 ORGANS OP SPECIAL SENSE the slcin, and it is one of the places from which melanotic sarcomata may grow. These tumours contain a large amount of pigment in their cells, and originate only in those parts where pigment is naturally present. The iris may be absent, either in part or altogether as a congenital condition, and in some instances the pupillary membrane may remain persistent, though it is rarely complete. Again, the iris may be the seat of a malformation, termed colohoma, which consists in a deficiency or cleft, clearly due in a great number of cases to an arrest in development. In these cases it is foimd at the lower aspect, extending directly downwards from the pupil, and the gap frequently extends through the choroid to the entrance of the optic nerve. In some rarer cases the gap is found in other parts of the iris, and is not then associated with, any deficiency of the choroid. Wounds of the iris, especiallj' if comphcated with injury to the ciliary body, may be followed by serious consequences. If septic matter is introduced, and a suppurative inflammation is set up, complete loss of vision may result; and, what is perhaps of greater consequence, similar inflammatory changes may be set up in the sound eye, from spreading of the infective process through the con- nective tissue surrounding the optic nerve to the commissure, and thence down the opposite nerve to the sound eye. The iris is abimdantly supplied with blood-vessels and nerves, and is very prone to become inflamed, and when inflamed, in consequence of the intimate relationship which exists between the vessels of the iris and choroid, this latter timic is very liable to participate in the inflammation. The iiis is covered with epithehum, and partakes of the character of a serous membrane, and, like these structures, is apt to pour out a plastic exudation, when inflamed, and contract adhesions, either to the cornea in front {synechia anterior), or to the capsule of the lens behind {synechia 'posterior). In iritis the lens may become involved, and the condition known as secondary cataract may be set up. Tumours occasionally commence in the iris ; of these, cysts, which are usually congenital, and sarcomatous tumours, are the most common. Gummata are not infrequently found in this situation. In some forms of mjury of the eyebaU, as from the impact of a spent shot, the rebound of a twig, or a blow with a whip, the iris may be detached from the CiUary muscle, the amount of detachment varying from the sUghtest degree to separation of the whole iris from its ciliary connection. The retina, with the exception of its pigment layer and its vessels, is perfectly transparent when examined by the ophthalmoscope, so that its diseased conditions are recognised by its loss of transparency. In retinitis, for instance, there is more or less dense and extensive opacity of its structure, and not infrequently extravasations of blood into its substance. HajmoiThages may also take place into the retma, fi-om rupture of a blood-vessel without inflammation. The retina may become displaced from effusion of serum between it and the choroid, or by blows on the eyeball, or may occur without apparent cause in progressive myopia, and in this case the ophthalmoscope shows an opaque, tremulous cloud. Glioma, a form of sarcoma, and essentially a disease of early life, is occasionally met with in connection -with the retina. The lens has no blood-vessels, nerves, or connective tissue in its structirre, and therefore is not subject to those morbid changes to which tissues contaming these structures are liable. It does, however, present certam morbid or abnormal conditions of various kinds. Thus, variations in shape, and displacements, are among its congenital defects. Opacities may occur from injury, senile changes, or mahiutrition. These opacities give rise to cataract, of which the senile variety is the most common. They vary as to the part of the lens m which the opacity commences, and are classified accordingly, as nuclear, cortical, lamellar, anterior and posterior polar. Senile changes may take place in the lens, impau-mg its elasticity and rendering it harder than in youth, so that it loses its power of altermg its curvature to suit the requirements of near vision. This condition is known as presbyopm. And finally, the lens may be dislocated or displaced by blows upon the eyeball; and its relations to surrounding structures altered by adhesions or the pressure of new growths. There are two particular regions of the eye which require special notice -. one ot tliese is known as the ' filtration area,' and the other as the ' dangerous area. The ^pUratton area is the circumcorneal zone immediately in front of the iris. Here are situated he cavernous spaces of Fontana, which communicate with the canal of Schlemm througli which the chief transudation of fluid from the eye is believed to take place. If any obstruc- tion to this transudation occur, increased intra-ocular tension is set up, and the disease known as glaucoma results. The dangerous area of the eye is the region m the "eighbourhooa of the ciliary body, and wounds or injuries in this situation are P«f"l^«;; ^ J^^l^gfJ^^ for inflammation of the ciliary body is apt to spread to many of of the eye, especially to the iris and choroid, which are mtimately connected with it by nervous and vascular supplies. Appendages of the Eye The appendages of the eye (organa oculi accessoria) include the ^J'^^^^^:^ the eyelids, the conjunctiva, and the lachrymal apparatus, viz. the lachrymal gland, the lachrymal sac, and tlie nasal duct.