53 NERVOUS TISSUE Motor nerves can be traced into either unstriped or striped muscular fibres. In tlie unstriped or involuntary muscles the nerves are derived from the sym- pathetic, and are composed mainly of the non-meduUated fibres. Near their terminations they divide into numerous branches, which communicate and form intimate plexuses. At the junctions of the branches small-triangular nuclear bodies (gaugUon-cells) are situated. From these plexuses minute branches are given off, which divide and break up into the ultimate fibrillas of which the nerves are composed. These fibrillie course between the involuntary muscle-cells, and, according to Ehscher, terminate on the surfaces of the cells, opposite the nuclei, in minute swellings. Arnold and Frankenhauser beheved that these ultimate fibrillse penetrated the muscular cells, and ended in the nuclei. More recent observation has, however, tended to disprove this. In the striped or voluntary muscle, the nerves supplying the muscular fibres are derived from the cerebro-spinal nerves, and are composed mainly of medullated fibres. The nerve, after entering the sheath of the muscle, breaks up into fibres, or bundles of fibres, which form plexuses, and gradually divide until, as a rule, a single nerve-fibre enters a single muscular fibre. Sometimes, however, if the muscular fibre be long, more than one nerve-fibre enters it. Within the muscular fibre the nerve terminates in a special expansion, called by Kiihne, who first accurately described it, a motor end-plate (fig. 70).* The nerve-fibre, on approaching Fig. 70.—Muscular fibres of Laceria viridis with the terminations of nerves. a. Seen in profile, r P. Tlio nerve end-platos. S S. The base ot the plate, consisting of a granular mass witli nuclei. ' b. The same as seen in looking at a perfectly fresh fibre, the nervoiLS ends beinc; iprobably still excitable. (The forms of the variously divided plato can hardly be reiiresented in a woodcut by s\illicient.ly delicate and pale contours to reproduce correctly what is seen in nature.) c. The same as seen two hoius after death from poisoning by ciurare. the muscular fibre, suddenly loses its medullary sheath, the neurilemma becomes continuous with the sarcolemma of the muscle, and only the axis cyhnder enters the muscular fibre. There it at once spreads out, ramifying like the roots of a tree, immediately beneath the sarcolemma, and becomes imbedded in a layer of granular matter, containing a number of clear, oblong nuclei, the whole constituting an end-plate from which the contractile wave of the muscidar fibre is said to start. Ganglia are small aggregations of nerve-cells. They are found on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves ; on the posterior or sensory root of the fifth cranial nerve; on the facial and auditory nerves ; on the glosso-pharyngeal and pnoumo- gastric nerves. They are also found in a connected series along cither side of the vertebral column, forming the trunk of the sympathetic ; and on the branches of sympathetic nerves, generally in the plexuses or at the points of jimction of two or more nerves with each other or with branches of the cerebro-spinal system. On section they are seen to consist of a reddish-grey substance, traversed by numerous white nerve-fibres ; they vary considerably in form and size ; the largest are found in the cavity of the abdomen ; the smallest, not visible to the naked eye, exist in considerable numbers upon the nerves distributed to the different viscera. * 'I'liey had, however, previously been noticed, thoiifi;h not acciiratLly desci ibcd, by Doydrc, who named thera ' nerve-hillocks.'