430 SYNDESMOLOGY Congenital dislocation is more commonly met with in the hip-joint than in any other articulation. The displacement usually takes place on to the dorsum ilii. It gives rise to extreme lordosis, and a waddling gait is noticed as soon as the child commences to walk. Excision of the liip may be required for disease or for injury, especially gunshot. It may bo performed either by an anterior incision or by a posterior one. The former entails less interference with important structures, especially muscles, than the latter, but permits of less efficient drainage. In these days, however, when the surgeon aims at securing healing of the wound without suppuration, this second desideratum is not of so much importance. In the operation from the front, an incision is made three to four inches in length, starting immediately below and external to the anterior superior spinous process of the iliiim, downwards and inwards between the Sartorius and Tensor fascia; femoris, to the neck of the bone, dividing the cajisule at its upper part. A narrow- bladed saw now divides the neck of the femur, and the head of the bone is extracted with sequestrum forceps. All diseased tissue is carefully removed with a sharp spoon or scissors, and the cavity thoroughly flushed out with a hot antiseptic or sterile fluid. The posterior method consists in makmg an incision three or four inches long, commencing midway between the top of the great trochanter and the crest of the Uium, and extending down the posterior border of the trochanter. The muscles are detached from the great trochanter, and the capsule opened freely. The head and neck are freed from the soft parts and the bone sawn through just below the top of the trochanter with a narrow saw. The head of the bone is then levered out of the acetabulum. In both operations, if the acetabulum is eroded, it must be freely gouged. II. KNEE-JOINT (AETICULATIO GENU) The knee-joint was formerly described as a ginglymus or hinge-joint, but is really of a much more complicated character. It must be regarded as consisting of three articulations in one : two condyloid joints, one between each condyle of the femur and the corresponding semilunar cartilage and tuberosity of the tibia, and a third between the patella and the femur, partly arthrodial, but not completely so, since the articular surfaces are not mutually adapted to each other, so that the movement is not a simple gliding one. This view of the construction of the knee-joint receives confirmation from the study of the articulation in some of the lower mammals, Avhere, corresponding to these three subdivisions, three synovial membranes are sometimes found, either entirely distinct or only connected together by small communications. This view is further rendered probable by the existence within the joint of the two crucial ligaments, which must be regarded as the external and internal lateral ligaments of the inner and outer joints respectively. The existence of the ligamentum mucosum would further indicate a tendency to separation of the synovial cavity into two minor sacs, one corresponding to each lateral joint. The bones entering into the formation of the knee-joint are the condyles of the femur above, the head of the tibia below, and the patella in front. They are connected together by ligaments, some of which are placed on the exterior of the joint, while others occupy its interior. Exterior Ligaments ' Interior Ligaments Capsular. Anterior or External Crucial. Anterior, or Ligamentum Posterior or Internal Crucial. Patellaj. Two Semilunar Fibro-cartilages. Posterior, or Ligamentum Transverse. Posticum Winslowii. Coronary. Internal Lateral. Ligamentum mucosum |Processes of Syn- Extei'nal Latoi-al. Ligamenta alaria ) ovial membrane. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) consists of a thin, but strong, fibrous membrane M hich is strengthened in almost its entire extent by bands inseparably connected with it. Above and in front, beneath the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor muscle, it is so tliin that it is usually described as defective. Its chief strengthening bands arc derived from the fascia lata and from the tendons surrounding the joint. In front, expansions from the Vasti and from the fascia lata and its ilio-tibialband fill in the mtcr- vals between the anterior and lateral ligaments, constituting the lateral patellar