MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE FOREARM 545 ill flexing the wrist and elbow. The Flexor subliixiis digitorum flexes first the middle, and then the proximal phalanges. It assists in flexing the wrist and elbow. The Flexor profundus digitorum is one of the flexors of the phalanges. After the Flexor sublimis has bent the second phalanx, the Flexor profundus flexes the terminal one ; but it cannot do so until after the contraction of the superficial muscle. It also assists in fle.xing the wrist. The Flexor longus pollicis is a flexor of the phalanges of the thumb ; when the thumb is fixed, it also assists in fle.xing the wrist. The Pronator quadratus helps to rotate the radius upon the ulna, rendering the hand prone. 9. Radial Region (figs. 520, 522) Brachio-radialis {Supinator longiis). Extensor carpi radialis longior. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. The Brachio-radialis [Supinator longus) is the most superficial muscle on the radial side of the forearm : it is fleshy for the upper two-thu'ds of its extent, tendinous below. It arises from the ujDper two-thii-ds of the external supracondylar ridge of the humerus, and from the external intermuscular septum, being limited above by the musculo-spiral groove. Interposed between it and the Bracliialis anticus are the musculo-spu-al nerve and the anastomosis between the anterior branch of the superior profunda artery and the radial recuixent. The fibres terminate above the middle of the fore- arm in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the outer side of the base of the styloid process of the radius. The tendon is crossed near its insertion by the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and Extensor brevis pollicis ; on its ulnar side is the radial artery. The Extensor carpi radialis longior (m. extensor carpi radialis longus) is placed partly beneath the preceding muscle. It arises from the lowev third of the external supracondjdar ridge of the humerus, from the external mtermuscular septum, and by a few fibres from the common tendon of origin of the Extensor muscles of the forearm. The fibres terminate at the upper third of the forearm in a flat tendon, which runs along the outer border of the radius, beneath the Extensor tendons of the thumb ; it then passes beneath the posterior annular ligament of the wist, where it lies in a groove on the back of the radius common to it and the Extensor carpi radialis brevior, immediately behind the styloid process. It is inserted into the posterior surface of the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, on its radial ■-ide. The Extensor carpi radialis brevior (m. extensor carpi radialis brevis) IS shorter, as its name implies, and thicker than the preceding muscle beneath which it is placed. It arises from the external epicondyle of the humerus, by a tendon common to it and the three following muscles ; from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint; from a strong aponeurosis which covers its surface; and from the intermuscular septa between it and tiie adjacent muscles. The fibres terminate about the middle of the forearm m a flat tendon, winch is closely connected with that of the preceding muscle and accompanies it to the wrist; it passes beneath the Extensor tendons of tlie thumb, then beneath the annular ligament, and, diverging somewhat trom its fellow, is inserted into the posterior surface of the base of the meta- carpal bone of the middle finger, on its radial side. Under the posterior annular ligament of the wrist the tendon lies on the back of the radius in a s laUow gi-oove, to the ulnar side of the groove which lodges the tendon of ridge ' ^^"^^^ ^'^dialis longior, and separated from it by a faint rhe tendons of the two preceding muscles pass through the same com- membrane° ''annular ligament, and are lubricated by a single synovial 10. Posterior Radio-Ulnar Region (fig. 524) The muscles in this region are divided for purposes of description into two groups or layers, superficial and deep.