410 SYNDESMOLOGY the deep aspect of the transverse band to the upper part of the fossa. This ligament is in relation, behind, with the tendon of tlie Triceps and tlic Anconeus. The Internal Lateral Ligament (lig. coUaterale ulnare) (fig. 452) is a thick triangular band consisting of two portions, an anterior and posterior, united by a thinner intermediate portion. The anterior portion, directed obliquely forwards, is attached, above, by its apex, to tlie front part of the internal epicondyle of the humerus ; and, below, by its broad base, to the inner margin of the coronoid process. The posterior portion, also of triangular form, is attached, above, by its apex, to the lower and back part of the internal epicondyle ; below, to the inner margin of the olecranon. Between these two bands a few intermediate fibres descend from the internal epicondyle to blend with a transverse band of ligamentous tissue which bridges across the notch between the olecranon and coronoid processes. This ligament is in relation, internally, Fig. 454.-Sagittal section of right elbow-joint taken with the Triceps and Flexor somewhat obliquely and seen from the radial aspect, carpi uhiaris and the ulnar (After Braune.) nerve, and gives origin to part of the Flexor subhmis digitorum. The External Lateral Ligament (lig. coUaterale radiale) (fig. 453) is a short and narrow fibrous band, less distinct than the in- ternal, attached, above, to a depression below the ex- ternal epicondyle of the humerus; below, to the orbicular ligament, some of its most posterior fibres passing over that ligament, to be mserted into the outer margin of the ulna. It is intimately blended with the tendon of origin of the Supinator brevis. The Synovial Mem- brane is very extensive. It extends from the margin of the articular surface of the humerus, and lines the coro- noid and olecranon fossae on that bone ; it is reflected over the anterior, posterior, and lateral ligaments, and forms a pouch between the lesser sigmoid cavity, the internal surface o( the orbicular ligament, and "j'^^f ft' oivily t °a^te^ntrMa^r&f^=^^ The Muscles in relation with the joint are ^^^^^^^^^ a„d the Median cephalic vein Head of radius Badial nerve