891 SENSORY TRACT others are continued directly into the posterior columns of tiic cord, whore they form the fasciculus gracilis and fasciculus cuneatus. From tiie cells of the posterior horn, fibres arise ^\■hich cross the middle line and ascend in the peripheral part of tlie lateral column as the tract of Cod ers. Certain observers maintain that some of the sensory fibres ascend in the anterior column. The fibres of the fasciculus gracilis and fasciculus cuneatus end by arborising around the cells of the gracile and cuneate nuclei, and from these cells the fibres of the mesial fillet take origin and cross to the oi^ijosite side m the sensory decussation. The mesial fillet is then joined by the fibres of Cowers' tract, which have already crossed in the cord, and in its further course receives fibres from the cranial sensory nuclei of the opposite side, with the exception of the cochlear division of the auditory nerve. Ascending through the crus, the fiUet gives off some fibres to the lenticular nucleus and island of Reil, but the greater part of it is carried into the thalamus, where most of its fibres terminate—only a small proportion being continued directly into the cerebral cortex. From the grey matter of the thalamus the fibres of the third fink in the chain arise and pass to the cerebral cortex. The fibres from the terminal nuclei of the cochlear nerve pass upwards in the lateral fillet, and are carried through the posterior part of the internal capsule to the temporal lobe. Further, Gowers' tract gives off a fasciculus which reaches the cerebellum through its superior peduncles. It wOl be evident, therefore, that in most cases there are three cell-stations interposed in the course of the sensory impulses. For clinical purposes, therefore, three neurons are described. (1) The series of lower sensory neurons comprises the cells of the posterior root ganglia and their peripheral and central processes. Of the two upper sensory neurons, (2) the lower series includes the cells of the nuclei cuneati and graciles and their processes, while (3) the upper group contains the cells of the thalami and the fibres passmg from these to the cerebral cortex. Afjulied Anatomy.—The chief symptoms of diEcases of the brain and spinal cord depend upon the particular systems of neurons picked out for attack, and some of them may be briefly summarised as follows. Motor -paralysis of the spastic type, wth rigidity of the muscles and increased reflexes, foUows destruction of the upper motor nexurons ; flaccid paralysis, wth loss of the reflexes and rapid muscular atrophy, follows desti-uction'of the lower motor neuron. Sensory paralysis follows injury to any part of the sensory path ; in tabes it is due to injm-y of the lower sensory neuron, in hemiplegia to destruction of the upper sensory axon as it traverses the posterior part of the internal capsule. Dissociation of sensations, or the loss of some forms of sensation while others remain unimpau-ed, is seen in a number of conditions such as tabes or syringomyeUa ; it shows that the paths through which various forms of sensation travel to the brain are cUfferent. Abnormalities 0} rejle.v actions are of very great help in the diagnosis of nervous complaints. The nnmeToua superjicial or skin rejlexes {e.g. the scapular, imtation of the skin over the scapula produces contraction of the scapular muscles ; the abdominal, strokmg the abdomen causes its retraction ; the cremasteric, stroking the inner side of the thigh causes retraction of that side of the scrotum ; the plantar, ticklmg the sole of the foot brings on plantar flexion ot the toes), i£ present, show that the reflex arcs on whoso integrity their existence depends are intact; but they are often absent m health, and so cannot be trusted to indicate disease, ihe deep reflexes or tendon reactions, such as the Imee-jerk or the tendo AchiUis jerk aremcreased in chrome degeneration of, or gi-adually increasmg pressui-e on, the pyramidal hbres (upper motor neuron), in nervous or hysterical patients, and when the irritabihty of the anterior cornual cells (lower motor neuron) is increased, as happens in tetanus or in poisonmg by strychmne. They are lost when the lower motor or lower sensory neurons are diseased, and m a few other conditions ; absence of the knee-jerk is very rare in health anct suggests disease in some part of its reflex arc, in the third and fourth lumbar segments 01 the cord, or else, more rarely, grave intracrauial or spinal disease cutting off the lower irom the higher nervous centres. The organic reflexes of the pupil, bladder, and rectum, aie ot the greatest practical importance. The commonest defect in the reflexes of the pupu Ls reflex u-idoplegia, or failure to contract on exposure to light, wthout failure to contract on convergence or accommodation (' ArgyU Robertson ' pupil). The pupil is also contracted (miosis), and may or may not chlate when the skin of the neck is pinched tue ciuo-spinal reflex). Micturition is a spinal reflex much under the control of the brain ; u me centre for micturition in the second sacral segment is destroyed the sphincter and tne waUs ot the bladder are paralysed, the bladder becomes chstondod with urino and mcontinence from overflow results. If this centre escapes injury but is cut ofl: more or less completely from impulses descending to it from above, there will be more or less interference witu micturition. This varies in degree from the ' precipitate mictui-ition ' of tabetic patients, who must perforce hurry to pass water the moment the impulse seizes them to the