293 SCAPULA (tuberositas supraglenoidalis), to which the long tendon of the Biceps is attached. The surface is covered wdth cartilage in the recent state ; and its margins, slightly raised, give attachment to a fibro-cartilaginous structure, the glenoid ligavient, which deepens the cavity. The neck ot the scapula (collum scapulae) is the slightly depressed surface wliicli sui'rounds the head; it is more distinct beiiind where it forms part of the great scapular notcli, than in front, and below than above. The coracoid process (processus coracoideus) is a thick curved process attached by a broad base to the upper part of the neck of the scapula ; it is directed at first upwards and inwards ; then, becoming smaller, it changes its direction, and passes forwards and outwards. The ascending portion, flattened from before backwards, presents in fi'ont a smooth concave surface, over wliich the Subscapularis passes. The horizontal portion is flattened from above downwards ; its upper surface is convex and irregular, and gives attachment Fio. 352.—Plan of ossification of the scapula. From seven centres. to the Pectoralis minor ; its under surface is smooth ; its inner border is rough, and gives attachment to the Pectoralis minor ; its outer border is also rough tor the coraco-acromial ligament, wliile the apex is embraced by the conjoined tendon of origm of the short head of the Biceps and Coraco-brachialis and gives attachment to the costo-coracoid ligament. At the inner side of the root of the coracoid process is a rough impression for the attachment of the conoid ligament; and running from it obliquely forwards and outwards, on to the upper surface of the horizontal portion, is an elevated ridge for the attachment of the trapezoid ligament. Structure.—The bead, processes, and the thickened parts of the bone, contam cancellous tissue ; the rest of the bone consists of a thin layer of compact tissue, ihe central part of the supraspinous fossa and the upper part of the infraspinous lossa, but especially the former, are usually so thin as to be semi-transparent; occasionally the bone is found wanting in this situation, and the adjacent muscles are separated only by fibrous tissue.