799 THE SPINAL CORD Internal STRtrcTUKE of the Spinal Cord On examining a transverse section of the cord (fig. 675) it is seen to consist of grey and white nervous matter, the former being enclosed \vithin the latter. Grey matter.—The grey matter (substantia grisea) consists of two symmetrical portions, one in each half of the cord : these are joined across the middle line by a transverse band, termed the grey commissure (com- missura grisea), through which runs a mmute canal, the canalis centralis of the cord, just visible to the naked eye. Each half of the grey substance is shaped in the form of a comma or crescent, the concavity of which is directed outwards ; and these, together with the intervening grey commissure, j)resent on transverse section the appearance of the letter H. An imaginary line drawn transversely through the central canal serves to divide each crescent into an anterior or ventral, and a posterior or dorsal cornu. The anterior cornu (columna anterior) is directed forwards, and is broad and of a roimded or quadrangular shape. Its posterior part is termed the base, and its anterior part the head, but these are not differentiated from each other by any well-defined constriction. It is separated from the surface of Fig. 675.—Transverse section of the spinal cord in the mid-thoracic region. Posterior median Anterior nerve-roots Anterior median fissivre the cord by a layer of white matter which is traversed by the bundles of the anterior nerve-roots. In the thoracic region, the postero-external part of the anterior cornu projects outwards as a triangular field, which is named the' lateral cornu (columna lateralis). The posterior cornu (columna posterior) is long and slender, and is directed backwards and outwards : it reaches almost as far as the postero- lateral sulcus, from which it is separated by only a thin layer of white sub- stance, the tract of Lissauer. It consists of a base, which is directly continuous with the corresponding part of the anterior horn ; a neck (cervix cohmmse post.) or slightly constricted portion, which is succeeded by an oval or fusiform area, termed the head (caput columnse post.), of which the summit (apex columnae post.) approaches the postero-lateral sulcus. The head is capped by a V-shaped or crescentic mass of translucent, gelatinous neurogUa, termed the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando, which contains not only neuroglia-cells, but numerous small nerve-ceUs. Between the anterior and posterior comua the grey matter extends as a series of processes for some distance into the lateral column, to form a network called the formatio reticularis.