ANGIOLOGY fil4 Peculiarities in the Vascui.ar System of the Pcetus The development of the lieart and vascular system is described on pp. 135 to 150. The chief peculiarities of the foetal heart are the direct communication between the auricles tlirough the foramen ovale, and the large size of the Eustachian valve. Amongst otlier peculiarities the following may be noted. (1) In early foetal life it lies immediately below the mandibular arch, and as development proceeds is gradually drawn back M-itliin the thorax. (2) For a time the auricular portion exceeds tiie ventricular in size, and the walls of the ventricles are of equal thickness : towards the end of foetal life the ventricular portion becomes the larger and the wall of the left ventricle exceeds that of the right in thickness. (3) Its size is large as compared with that of the rest of the body, the proportion at the second month l)eing 1 to 50, and at birth 1 to 120, A\ hile in the adult the average is about 1 to 160. The foramen ovale is situated at the lower and back part of the auricular septum, forming a communication between the auricles. It remains as a free oval opening until the middle period of foetal life. The septum {septum secundum) A^'hich grows dovm from the upper wall of the auricle to the right of the foramen ovale advances over the opening, so as to form a sort gf valve, which allows the blood to pass only from the right to the left auricle, and not in the opposite direction. The Eustachian valve is directed upwards on the left side of the opening of the inferior vena cava, and serves to direct the blood from this vessel through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. The peculiarities in the arterial system of the foetus are the communication between the pulmonary artery and the descending aorta by means of the ductus arteriosus, and the continuation of the internal iliac arteries as the umbilical or hypogastric arteries to the placenta. The ductus arteriosus is a short tube, about half an inch in length at birth, and of the diameter of a goose-quill. In the early condition it forms the continuation of the pulmonary artery, and opens into the descending, aorta, just below the origin of the left subclavian artery ; and so conducts the chief part of the blood from the right ventricle into the aorta. Wkan the branches of the pulmonary artery have become larger relatively to the ductus arteriosus, the latter is chiefly connected to the left pulmonary artery ; and the fibrous cord, which is all that remains of the ductus arteriosus in later life, is attached to the root of that vessel. The umbilical or hypogastric arteries are continued from the internal iliacs, along the sides of the bladder to its apex ; they pass out of the abdomen at the umbilicus and are carried in the umbiUcal cord to the placenta. They convey the blood which has circulated through the foetus to the placenta. The peculiarities in the venous system of the foetus are the communica- tions established between the placenta and the hver and portal vem, through the umbilical vein ; and between the umbilical vein and the inferior vena cava through the ductus venosus. Foetal Circulation (fig. 570) The blood destined for the nutrition of the foetus is returned from the placenta to the foetus by the umbilical vein. This vein enters the abdomen at the umbilicus, and passes upwards along the free margm of the falciform ligament of the liver to the under surface of that organ, where it gives off two or three branches, one of whicli is of large size, to the left lobe, and others to the lobus quadratus and lobus Spigelii. At the transverse fissure it divides into two branches : of these, the larger is joined by the portal vein, and enters the right lobe ; the smaUer is continued upwards, under the name of tlie ductus venosus, and joins the left hepatic vein at the pomt of junction ot that vessel with the iiifcrior vena cava. The blood, therefore, which traverses the umbUical vein, passes to the inferior vena cava in three diiTercnt ways. The greater quantity circulates through the liver with the portal venous blood, before entering the vena cava by the hepatic veins ; some enters the liver directly, and is also returned to the inferior cava by the hepatic veins :