934 NEUROLOGY accompanied by the spinal accessory, and is contained in the same sheath of dum mater with it, a membranous septum separatmg them from the giosso- nharvnaeal which lies in f.'ont (fig. 636). The nerve in this situation presents ^liiaijiie, ^ well-marked ganglionic Yio. 786. Course and distributioii of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh cranial nerves. ai03io-pharii»ge<d Fneumogaslrie Spinal accessor enlargement, which is called the ganglion of the root (ganglion jugulare) ; to it the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected by one or two filaments. After its exit from the jugular foramen the nerve is joined by the accessory portion of the spinal accessory, and en- larges into a second gangU- form sweUing, called the ganglion of the trunk (gan- ghon nodosum) ; through this the fibres of the acces- sory portion of the spinal accessory pass unchanged, being i)rmcipally distri- buted to the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the vagus, but some of the filaments from it are contmued mto the trunk of the vagus below the ganglion, to be distri- buted with the recurrent laryngeal nerve and prob- ably also with the cardiac nerves. The vagus nerve passes vertically down the neck within the carotid sheath, lying between the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vem as far as the thyroid carti- lage, and then between the same vein and the common carotid artery to the root of the neck. From this dovni- wards, the course of the nerve difiers on the two sides of the body. On the right side, the nerve passes across the sub- clavian artery between it and the right innominate vem, and descends by the side of the trachea to the back part of the root of the lung, where it spreads out in a plexiform network {pos- terior imhnonary plcxits). From the lower part ot this two cords descend on the oesophagus, and divide nerve, the oesophageal plexus (P^^-^'"^^. bad part of the oesophagus, collected into a single cord, which 7'^%^^° » ^^^"^S^u^^ of the stomach, enters the abdomen, and is distributed to the posteuox