796 THE SPINAL CORr> one another.' According to this theory (neuron theory) the processes of one neuron only come into contact, and are never in direct continuity, with those of other neurons ; while impulses are transmitted from one nerve-cell to another through these points of contact. This theory is based on the following facts, viz. : (1) embryonic nerve-cells or neuroblasts are entirely distinct from one another; (2) when nervous tissues are stained by the Golgi method no continuity is seen even between neighbouring neurons ; and (3) M'hen degenerative changes occur in nervous tissue, either as the I'esult of disease or experiment, they never spread from one neuron to another, but are limited to the individual neurons, or groups of neurons, primarily affected. It must, however, be added that within the past few years the validity of the neuron theory^las been called in question by certain eminent histologists, wlio maintain that by the employment of more delicate histological methods, minute fibrils can be followed from one nerve-cell into another. The Spinal Coed The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) forms the elongated, nearly cylindiical, part of the central nervous system which occupies the upper two-thirds of tlie vertebral canal. Its average length in the male is about eighteen inches (45 cm.), in the female about seventeen inches (42-43 cm.),w^hile Fig. 671.—Showing the relation of the spinal its weight amounts to a little cord to the dorsal surface of the trunk, over an ounce. It extends from The vertebra, &c., are outlined in red. the level of the upjDer border of the atlas to that of the lower border of the first, or upper border of the second, lumbar vertebra (fig. 671). Above, it is directly continuous with the hind-brain; below, it ends in a conical extre- mity, the conus medullaris, from the apex of which a delicate filament, the filum termivxile, is continued do\rawards as far as the first segment of the coccyx (fig. 672). The position of the spinal cord varies with the movements of the vertebral column, its lower extre- mity being drawn slightly upwards when the column is flexed. It also varies at different periods of hfe : up to the third month of fcBtal life the cord is as long as the canal in which it hes, but from this stage onwards the vertebral column elon- gates more rapidly than the cord, so that by the end of the fifth month the cord terminates at the base of the sacrum, and at birth about the level of the third lumbar vertebra. The spinal cord does not nearly fill the canal in which it lies, being enshcathed by three protec- tive membranes, separated from each other by two concentric spaces. The three membranes are named from without inwards tlie dura mater, the araclmoid membrane, and the pia mater. The dura mater is a strong, fibrous membrane whicli forms a wide, tubular sheath around the cord ; this sheath extends below^ the termina- tion of the cord and ends in a pointed cul de sac at the level of the lower