NEUROLOGY 812 The anterior fissure (fissura mediana anterior) contains a fold of pia mater and extends along tlie entire length of the medulla : it terminates at the lower border of tlie pons Varolii in a small triangular expansion, the foramen cmcum. Its lower part is interrupted by bundles of fibres whicli cross obliquely from one side to the other, and constitute the fyramidul decussation. Some fibres, termed the anterior external arcuate fibres, emerge from the fissure above this decussation and curve outwards and upwards over the lateral aspect of the medulla. The posterior fissure (fissura mediana posterior) is a narrow groove which exists only in the closed part of the medulla ; it becomes graduaUy shaUower from below upwards, and finally terminates about the middle of the medulla, \yhere the central canal of the cord expands into the cavity of the fourth ventric e. These two fissures divide the closed Fig. 688.—Decussation of pyramids. Scheme showing passage of various tracts from cord to medulla. (Testut.) part of the medulla into symmetrical halves, each half presenting elongated eminences which, on surface vieM", are continuous M ith the columns of the cord. In the open part of the medulla. the halves are separated by the an- terior median fissure, and by a median raphe which extends from the bottom of the fissure to the floor of the fourth ventricle. Further, certain of the cranial nerves pass through the suIj- stance of the medulla, and are attached to its surface m series with the roots of the spinal nerves ; thus, the fibres of the hypoglossal nerve represent the upward continuation of the anterior nerve-roots, and emerge m linear series from a furrow termed the ^re-olivary or antero-lateral sulcus (sulcus laterahs an- terior). Similarly, the spmal accessor}-, vagus, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves correspond with the posterior nerve- roots, and are attached to the bottom of a sulcus named the postero-lateral sulcus (sulcus laterahs posterior). Advantage is taken of this arrangement to sub- divide each half of the medulla mto three areas, anterior, middle, and posterior. Although these three areas appear to be directly contmuous with the corresponding columns of the cord, it must be pointed out that they do not necessarily contam the same fibres, since some of the nerve-tracts of the cord terminate in the medulla, while others alter their course m passing through it. . The anterior area (fig- o»0 named the pyramid (pyramis), ana lies between the anterior fissure and the antero-lateral sulcus. Its "l>per extremiy is sUghtly -stneted ~ £E%SS-^^and t^"^ finSfta^Jf Int^t nUc. column of the cord, w.th Srat first sight, itWars to be directly continuoi^. ^. Tlie two pyramids constitute the grea 'J^^'^''''''^^^^^^ spinal cord. a Pons VarolU. b. Medulla from the front, c. De- "•cui^tion ot the pyramids. </. Section of ™^ nart o£ cord. 1. Direct pyramidal tract (m red). r Crossed pyranudal tract (In red) 3. Sensory tract ffasciculi trracUis et cuneatiis) (ni blue), i . Ufae^ I'S cSieaS nuclei, i. Antero-lateral ground bund e cin dotted line') 5. Praunid. 6. Fillet. }-°f- ^tSior lon^tuctnal fasdculus. 8 Gowers'tract (in blue). 9. Direct cerebellar tract (in yellow).