999 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES In the female, the ovarian plexus (plexus ovaricus) arises like the spermatic plexus and is distributed to the ovary, and fundus of the uterus. The ccEliac plexus (plexus coehacus), of large size, is a direct contmuation from the solar plexus : it surrounds the coeliac axis, and subdivides into the gastric hepatic, and splenic plexuses. It receives branches from the lesser splanchnic nerves, and, on the left side, a filament from the right vagus. _ The gastric or coronary plexus (plexus gastricus superior) accompanies the gastric artery along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and joins with branches from the left vagus. „ r i.u v The hefaiic flcxus (plexus hepaticus), the largest offset from the coeliac plexus, receives filaments from the left vagus and right phrenic nerves. It accompanies the hepatic artery, ramifying upon its branches, and upon those of the portal vein in the substance of the liver. Branches from this plexus accompany all the divisions of the hepatic artery. Thus there is a pyloric plexus on the pyloric branch of the hepatic, which joins with the gastric plexus and vagi nerves. There is also a gastro- duodenal plexus, subdividing mto the pancreaiico-duodenal plexus, which accompanies the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery, to supply the pancreas and duodenum, and joins with branches from the mesenteric plexus ; and the gastro-epiploic plexus, which accompanies the right gastro-epiploic artery along the greater curvature of the stomach, and unites with branches fiom the splenic plexus. A cystic plexus, Avhich supphes the gall-bladder, also arises from the hepatic plexus, near the hver. The splenic plexus (plexus lienalis) is formed by branches from the coeliac plexus, the left semilunar gangha, and from the right vagus nerve. It accom- panies the splenic artery and its branches to the substance of the spleen, giving off, in its course, filaments to the pancreas {pancreatic plexus), and the left gastro-epiploic plexus, which accompanies the left gastro-epiploic artery along the greater curvature of the stomach. The superior mesenteric plexus (plexus mesentericus superior) is a continuation of the lower part of the solar plexus, receiving a branch from the junction of the right vagus nerve with the ccehac jilexus. It surrounds the superior mesenteric artery, accompanies it into the mesentery, and divides into a number of secondary plexuses, which are distributed to all the parts supplied by the artery, viz. pancreatic branches to the pancreas ; intestinal branches to the smaU intestme ; and ileo-colic, right colic, and middle cohc branches, which supply the corresponding parts of the great intestine. The nerves composing this plexus are white in colour and firm in texture ; in the upper part of the plexus close to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery is a ganglion {ganglion mesentericum superius). The aortic plexus (plexus aorticus abdominahs) is formed by branches derived, on either side, from the solar plexus and the semilunar ganglia, and receives filaments from some of the lumbar ganglia. It is situated upon the sides and front of the aorta, between the origins of the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. From this plexus arise j^art of the spermatic, the inferior mesenteric, and the hypogastric plexuses ; it also distributes filaments to the inferior vena cava. The inferior mesenteric plexus (plexus mesentericus inferior) is derived chiefly fi'om the left side of tlie aortic plexus. It surrounds the inferior mesen- teric artery, and divides into a number of secondary plexuses, which are distributed to aU the parts supplied by the artery, viz. tlie left colic and sigmoid plexuses, which supply the descending and ilio-pelvic parts of the colon ; and the superior hcemorrJioidal plexus (plexus ha?moiTlioida]is superior) which supplies the rectum and joins in the pelvis Mith branches from the pelvic plexuses. Hypogastric Plexus (fig. 816) The hypogastric plexus (plexus hypogastricus) is situated in front of the promontory of the sacrum, between the two common iliac arteries, and is formed by the union of numerous filaments, which descend on either side from the aortic plexus, and from the lumbar ganglia. This plexus contains no evident ganglia ; it bifurcates, below, into two lateral portions which form the pelvic plexuses.