1135 THE STOMACH its surfaces are directed more forwards and backwards. The lowest part of the stomach is at the pyloric vestibule, which reaches to the region of the umbilicus. Where the intestines interfere with the downward expansion of the fundus the stomach retains the horizontal position which is characteristic of the contracted viscus. Examination of the stomach during hfe by a;-rays has confirmed these findings, and has demonstrated that, in the erect posture, the full stomach usually presents a hook-like appearance, the long axis of the physiological fundus being du-ected downwards, inwards, and forwards towards the umbilicus, while the pyloric portion cm'ves upwards to the duodeno-pyloric junction. Interior of the stomach.—When examined after death, the stomach is usually fixed at some temporary stage of the digestive process. A common form is that shown in fig. 935. If the viscus be laid open by a section through the plane of its two curvatures, it is seen to Fig. 935.—Interior of the stomach. consist of two segments : (a) a large globular portion on the left and (6) a narrow tubular part on the right. These correspond to the physiological subdivisions of fundus and pyloric portions aheady described, and are separated by a constriction which indents the body and greater curvature, but does not involve the lesser cui-vature. To the left of the cardiac orifice is the incisura cardiaca : the projection of this notch into the cavity of the stomach increases as the organ distends, and has been supposed to act as a valve preventing regurgitation into the ossophagus. In the pyloric portion are seen: (a) the elevation corresponding to the incisura angularis, and (b) the circular projection from the duodeno- pyloric constriction which forms the pyloric valve. The separation of the pyloric vestibule from the pyloric canal is scarcely indicated, but the manner in which the pylorus is invaginated into the duodenum is evident. The pyloric valve is formed by a reduplication of the mucous membrane of the stornach, containing numerous circular muscular fibres, which are aggregated into a thick ring. Some of the deeper longitudinal fibres turn in and interlace mth the circular fibres of the valve. Structure.—^The wall of the stomach consists of four coats: serous, muscular, areolar, and mucous, together with vessels and nerves. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum, and covers the entire surface of the organ, excepting along the greater and lesser cvurvatm-es, at the points of attachment of the greater and lesser omenta ; here the two layers of peritoneum leave a small triangular space, along which the nutrient vessels and nerves pass. On the posterior surface of the stomach, close to the cardiac orifice, there is also a small area uncovered by peritoneum, where the organ is in contact with the under surface of the Diaphragm. The muscular coal (figs. 936, 937) is situated immediately beneath the serous covering, to which it is closely connected. It consists of three sets of fibres : longitudinal, cu-cular, and oblique. The hngiludiml fires are the most superficial, and are arranged in two sets. The first set consists of fibres continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus ; they radiate in !i stellate manner from the cardiac oi-ifice and are practically all lost before the pyloric