MUSCLES AND FASCIA OP THE THIGH 571 may be torn away from its insertion into the patella ; or the tendon of the patella may be ruptured about an inch above the bone. This accident is caused in the same manner as fracture of the patella by muscular action, viz. bj' a violent muscular effort to prevent falling while the knee is m a position of semiflexion. A distinct gap can be felt above the patella, and, owing to the retraction of the muscular fibres, union may fail to take place. 2. Internal Femoral Region Gracilis. Adductor longus. Pectineus. Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. The Gracilis (figs. 542, 544) is the most superficial muscle on the inner side of the thigh. It is tliin and flattened, broad above, narrow and tapering below. It arises by a thin aponeurosis from the anterior margins of the lower haK of the symphysis pubis and the upper half of the pubic arch. The fibres run vertically downwards, and terminate in a rounded tendon, which passes behind the internal condyle of the femur, and, curving round the inner tubero- sity of the tibia, becomes flattened, and is inserted into the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, below the tuberosity. A few of the fibres of the lower part of the tendon are prolonged into the deep fascia of the leg. At its insertion the tendon is situated immediately above that of the Semitendinosus, and its upper edge is overlapped by the tendon of the Sartorius, with which it is in part blended. As it passes across the internal lateral hgament of the Imee-joint, it is separated from it by a synovial bursa common to it and the Semitendinosus. The Pectineus (fig. 542) is a flat, quadrangular muscle, situated at the anterior part of the upper and inner aspect of the thigh. It arises from the ilio-pectineal line, and to a sUght extent from the surface of bone in front of it, between the pectineal eminence and spine of the pubis, and from the fascia covering the anterior surface of the muscle ; the fibres pass do^\'nwards, backwards, and outwards, to be inserted into a rough hne leading from the small trochanter to the linea aspera. Relations.—It is in relation by its anterior surface with the pubic portion 'of the fascia lata, which separates it from the femoral vessels and internal saphenous vein ; by its posterior surface, with the capsular ligament of the hip-joint and the Adductor brevis and Obturator externus muscles, the obturator vessels and nerve being interposed; by its otUer border, with the Psoas, a cellular interval separating them, through which pass the internal circumflex vessels ; by its inner border, with the margin of the Adductor longus. The Adductor longus (fig. 543), the most superficial of the tlu-ee Adduc- tors, is a flat, triangular muscle, Ijang in the same plane as the Pectineus. It arises by a flat, narrow tendon, from the front of the pubis, at the angle of junction of the crest with the symphysis ; and soon expands into a broad fleshy belly. Tliis passes downwards, backwards, and outwards, and is inserted, by an aponeurosis, into the linea aspera, between the Vastus internus and the Adductor magnus, with both of which it is usually blended. Relations.—It is in relation by its anterior surface with the fascia lata, the Sartorius, and, near its insertion, with the femoral artery and vein; by its posterior surface, with the Adductores brevis et magnus, the anterior division of the obturator nerve, and near its insertion with the profunda artery and vein; by its outer border, with the Pectineus ; by its inner border, with the GraciUs. The Adductor brevis (fig. 543) is situated immediately behind the two preceding muscles. It is somewhat triangular in form, and arises by a narrow origin from tiie outer surface of the body and descending ramus of the jiubis, between the Gracilis and Obturator externus. Its fibres, passing backwards, outwards, and downwards, are inserted, by an aponeurosis, into the line leading from the small trochanter to the linea aspera and into the upper part of the linea aspera, immediately behind the Pectineus and upper part of the Adductor longus.