299 HUMERUS Fig. 365.—Longitudinal section of head of left humerus. E])iphijsiul line Fig. 356,—Plan of ossification of the humeras. the summit of tlie olecranon process is received in extension of the forearm. These fossae are separated from one another by a thin, transparent lamina of bone, which is sometimes perforated, form- ing the supratrochlear foramen; their margins afford attachment to the anterior and posterior ligaments of tlie elbow-joint; the fossae are lined, in the recent state, by the synovial membrane of this articula- tion. The external epicondyle (epicondylus lateralis) is a small, tubercular eminence, less prominent tlian the internal, curved a little forwards, and giving attachment to the external lateral ligament of the elbow- joint, and to a tendon common to the origin of some of the Extensor and Supi- nator muscles. Tlie internal epicondyle (epicondylus medialis), larger, more promi- nent, and therefore more liable to fracture than the external, is directed a little back- wards ; it gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, to the Pronator teres, and to a tendon common to the origin of some of the Flexor muscles of the forearm. The ulnar nerve runs in a groove (sulcus n. ulnaris) on the back of the internal epicondyle. These epicondyles are dii-ectly continuous above ^vith the external and internal supracondylar ridges. Structure.—The extremities con- sist of cancellous tissue, covered with a thin, compact layer (fig. 355) ; the shaft is composed of a cyUu- der of compact tissue, thicker at the centre than towards the extremi- ties, and contains a large medullary canal which extends along its whole length. Ossification (fig. 356). — The humerus is ossified fi-om eight centres, one for each of the following parts : the shaft, the head, the greater tuber- osity, the lesser tuberosit}', the radial head, the trochlear portion of the articular surface, and one for each epicondyle. The centre for the shaft appears near the middle of the bone in the eighth week of foetal life, and soon extends towards the extremities. At birth the humerus is ossified in nearly its whole length, only the extremities remaining cartilaginous. During the first year, sometimes before birth, ossification commences in the head of the bone, and during the third year the centre lor the greater tuberosity, and during the fifth that for the lesser tuberosity, make their appearance. By the sixth year the centres for the head and tuberosities have increased in size and become joined, so as to form a single large - • — about the twentieth year. The lower end ot the humerus is ossified as follows. At the end of the second Epijihijses of head and \ y/\^ tuherosities blend at V/ \^ Jifth year, and unite with shaft at twcnti eth year Unites with shaft \ a,- at eighteenth year J 5 epiphysis, which fuses with the shaft vear