186 OSTEOLOGY vertebral foramen into two unequal parts—the anterior or smaller receiving the odontoid process of the axis, the posterior transmitting the spinal cord and its membranes. This part of the spinal canal is of considerable size, much greater than is required for the accommodation of the spinal cord, and hence lateral displacement of the atlas may occur without compression of this struc- ture. The transverse processes are large ; they project out\vardfi and down- wards from the lateral masses, and serve for the attachment of muscles wliich assist in rotating the head. They are long, and do not present anterior and posterior tubercles, since these have become fused into one mass ; the foramen for the vertelDral artery is directed from below, upwards and backwards. The second cervical vertebra (fig. 251) is named the axis or epistropheus because it forms the pivot upon which the first vertebra, carrying the head, rotates. The most distinctive character of this bone is the strong tooth-like odontoid process which rises perpendictdarly from the upper surface of the body. The body is deeper in front than behind, and prolonged downwards anteriorly so as to overlap the upper and fore part of the third vertebra. It presents in front a median longitudinal ridge, separating two lateral depres- sions for the attachment of the Longus coUi muscles. Its under surface is concave from before backwards and convex from side to side. The odontoid process (dens) exhibits a shght constriction, or neck, where it joins the body. On its anterior surface is an oval or nearly cu'cular facet for articulation with Fig. 251.—Second cervical vertebra, or Axis. Odontoid process Hough surface for check ligament Groove for transverse ligament Sjnnous process- A rticidar facet for atlas Body ~j Transverse process Inferior articular process '^ton^e anterior arch of the atlas. On the back of the neck, and frequently extending on to its lateral aspects, is a shaUow groove for the transverse ligament which retains the process in position. The apex is pomted, and gives attachment to the middle odontoid or check Ugament; below the apex the process is somewhat enlarged, and presents on either side a rough impres- sion for the attachment of the lateral odontoid or check hgament; these Ugaments connect the odontoid process to the occipital bone. Ihe internal structure of the odontoid process is more compact than that ot tiie ooay. The pedicles are broad and strong, especiaUy m front, where they coalesce mth the sides of the body and the root of the odontoid process, ihey are covered above by the superior articulating surfaces. The ImmnxE are thick and strong, and the spinal foramen large, but srnaUer than that ot the atlas. The transverse processes are very smaU, not bifid but t«rnimating m a single tubercle ; each is perforated by the foramen for the vertebral arterj, which is directed obUquelj^ upwards and outwards^ The super^or art^l^r surfaces are round, slightly convex, directed upwards and outwards a d are supported on the body, pedicles, and transverse processes The ariicvlar surfaces have the same direction as ^liose of the other cerym^^^ vertebriB. The superi(yr intervertebral notches are very .shaUow, and lie bemna IS art'?ular processes ; the inferior lie in front of the articular P^^^^f/^' the other cervical vertebrae. The spinoiis process is large very stiong, deqDiy channeUed on its under surface, and presents a bifid, tubercular extremity