807 THE SPINAL CORD Fig. 682. — Descending fibres in the posterior column, shown at dif- ferent levels. (Testut.) and is sometimes termed the secondary sensory tract; and (3) the spino-tectal <mc<, which passes to the corporca quadrigemina. ^ ^- . (c) The tract of Lissauer is a small strand situated m relation to the tip ot the posterior horn close to the entrance of the posterior nerve-roots. It con- sists of fine fibres which do not receive then: medullary sheaths until towards the close of fcetal Ufe. It is usually regarded as being formed by some of the fibres of the posterior nerve-root, which ascend for a short distance in the tract and then enter the posterior horn, but since its fibres are myelmated later than those of the posterior nerve-roots, and do not undergo degeneration in locomotor ataxia, they are probably hitersegmental in character. {d) The lateral basis bundle constitutes the re- mainder of the lateral column, and the portion of it which hes next the grey matter is sometimes named the lateral limiting zone. It is continuous in front with the anterior basis bundle, and the two together constitute the antero-lateral ground bundle. It con- sists chiefly of intersegmental fibres which arise from cells ui the grey matter, and, after a longer or shorter course, re-enter the grey matter and ramify in it. Some of its fibres are, however, continued upAvards into the brain under the name of the dorsal or posterior longitudinal fasciculus. Tracts in the posterior column.—This coluinn comprises two main tracts, viz. the fasciculus gracilis, and the fasciculus cuneatus. These are separated from each other in the cervical and upper thoracic regions by the postero-intermediate septum, and consist mainly of ascending fibres derived from the posterior nerve-roots. The fasciculus gracilis (tract of Goll) is wedge- shaped on transverse section, and lies next the pos- terior median fissure, its base bemg at the surface of the cord, and its apex directed towards the posterior grey commissure. It increases in size from below upwards, and consists of long thin fibres derived from the posterior nerve-roots, which ascend as far as the medulla oblongata, where they end in the nucleus gracihs. The fasciculus cuneatus (tract of Burdach) is triangular on transverse section, and lies between the fasciculus gracihs and the posterior comu, its base con-esponding with the surface of the cord. Its fibres, larger than those of the fasciculus gracilis, are mostly derived from the same source, viz. the posterior nerve-roots. Some ascend for only a short distance in the tract, and, entering the grey matter, come into close relationship with the cells of Clarke's column ; while others can be traced as far as the medulla oblongata, wliere they end in the gracile and cuneate nuclei. Occupying the ventral part of the posterior column is a strand of fibres termed the cornu- commissural tract. It is somewhat triangular on transverse section, and occupies the angle between the posterior grey commissure and the posterior comu. It is best marked in the lumbar region, but can be traced into the thoracic and cervical regions. Its fibres, derived from the cells of the posterior- horn, divide into ascending and descending branches which re-enter and ramify m the grey matter. It has been found to preserve its integrity in certain cases of locomotor ataxia. Descending fibres in the posterior column (fig. 682).—The posterior column contains some descending fibres which occupy different parts of the column at In the conus medullaris. 5 B. In the lumbar region. C. In the lower thoracic region. D. In the upper thoracic region. 1. Posterior horn. 2. Posterior nerve - roots. .3. Posterior median fissure. ■!. Triangular strand. 5. Oval area ot Flcclisig. G. Dorsal peripheral band. 7. De- scending comma tract.