544 MYOLOGY this muscle and those of the Flexor sublimis digitorum, while contained in the osseo-aponeurotic canals of the fingers, are invested in synovial sheaths, and are connected to each other, and to tlie phalanges, by slender, tendinous filaments, called vincula accessoria (fig. 523). There are two sets of these : (o) the ligamenta brevia, which are two in number in each finger, and consist of triangular bands of fibres connecting tlie tendon of the Flexor sublimis digitorum to the front of the first interphalangeal joint and head of the first phalanx, and the tendon of the Flexor profundus digitorum to the front of the second interphalangeal joint and head of the second phalanx ; (6) tlie ligamenta longa, which connect the under surfaces of tlie tendons of the Flexor profundus digitorum to those of the subjacent Flexor sublimis after the tendons of the former have passed through the latter. The ligamenta brevia of the deep Flexor tendons consist largely of yellow elastic tissue, and may assist in drawing down the tendons after flexion of the finger. Four small muscles, the Lumbricales, are connected with the tendons of the Flexor profundus in the palm. They will be described Mith the muscles of the hand. The Flexor longus poUicis (m. flexor polUcis longus) is situated on the radial side of the forearm, lying in the same plane as the preceding. It arises from the grooved anterior surface of the shaft of the radius, extending from immediately below the tuberosity and oblique line, to M-ithin a short distance of the Pronator quadratus. It also arises from the adjacent part of the interosseous membrane, and generally by a fleshy slip from the iimer border of the coronoid process, or from the internal condyle of the humerus. The fibres proceed downwards, and terminate in a flattened tendon, wliich passes beneath the annular ligament, is then lodged in the interspace between the outer head of the Flexor brevis poUicis and the Adductor obhquus pollicis, and, entermg an osseo-aponeurotic canal similar to those for the other Flexor tendons, is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. The anterior interosseous nerve and vessels pass downwards on the front of the interosseous membrane between the Flexor longus pollicis and Flexor profundus digitorum. The Pronator quadratus is a small, flat, quadi-ilateral muscle, extending transversely across the front of the radius and ulna, above theu- carpal extremities. It arises from the pronator ridge on the lower part of the anterioi* surface of the shaft of the ulna ; from the inner part of the anterior surface of the lower fourth of the ulna ; and from a strong aponem-osis which covers the inner thu'd of the muscle. The fibres pass outwards and sUghtly doAvn- wards, to be inserted into the lower fourth of the outer border and the anterior surface of the shaft of the radius. The deeper fibres of the muscle are inserted into the triangular area above the sigmoid cavity of the radius—an attach- ment comparable with the origin of the Supinator brevis from the triangular area below the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. ,. j i. Nerves.—All the muscles of the superficial layer are supphed by the median nerve excepting the Flexor carpi ulnaris, which is supphed by the ulnar. The Pronator teres, the Flexor carpi radialis, and the Palmaris longus derive their supply primarily from the sixth cervical; the Flexor sublimis digitorum from the seventh and eighth cervical and first thoracic, and the Flexor carpi uluaris from the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves. Of the deep layer, the Flexor profundus digitorum is supphed by the eighth cervical and first thoracic through the ulnar, and anterior interosseous branch of the median. The remaining two muscles Flexor longus pollicis and Pronator quadratus, are also supplied by the erghth cervical and first thoracic through the anterior interosseous branch ot the ™^Actions.—These muscles act upon the forearm, the wrist, and hand. The Pronator teres helps to rotate the radius upon the ulna, rendering the hand prone ; when the radius is fixed, it assists the other muscles m flexing the forearm The Flexor carpi racUalis is one of the flexors of the wrist; when acting alone it flexes the wrist! inclining it to the radial side. It can also assist in pronating the forearm and hand, and, by continuing its action, m b«"<i'"f. tl^*^ ,^''^"7; a/'^^^ Flexor carpi ulnaris is one of the flexors of the wrist; when acting alone, it flexes the wrist, inclining it to the ulnar side ; and by continumg to f' ^^^^J the elbow. The Palmaris longus is a tensor of the palmar fascia. It also assists