PALATE BONES 253 and forms part of the splieno-maxillary fossa. The anterior border forms the posterior bouiiclary of the spheno-palatine notcli. The posterior harder, serrated at the expense of the outer table, articulates with the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate. The orbital and sphenoidal processes are separated from one another by the spheno-palatine notch (incisura sphenopalatina). Sometimes the two processes are united above, and form between them a complete foramen (fig. 322), or the notch may be crossed by one or more spicules of bone, giving rise to two or more foramina. Ossification.—The palate bone is ossified in membrane from a single centre, which makes its appearance about the sixth or eighth week of foetal fife at the angle of junction of the two plates of the bone. From this point ossification spreads inwards to the horizontal plate, downwards into the tuberosity, and upwards into the vertical plate. Some authorities describe the bone as ossifying from four centres : one for the tuberosity and portion of the vertical plate behind the posterior palatine groove ; a second for the rest of the vertical and the horizontal plates ; a third for the orbital, and a fourth for the sphenoidal process. At the time of birth the height of the vertical plate is about equal to the trans- verse width of the horizontal plate, whereas in the adult the former measures about twice as much as the latter. Articulations.—The palate articulates with six bones : the sphenoid, ethmoid, maxiUa, inferior turbinated, vomer, and opposite palate. The Inferior Turbinated Bones The Inferior Turbinated Bone (concha nasalis inferior) extends horizontally along the outer wall of the nasal fossa (fig. 324) and consists of a lamina of spongy bone, curled upon itself like a scroll. It presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The internal surface (fig. 325) is convex, perforated by numerous apertures, and traversed by longitudinal grooves for the lodgment of vessels. The ex- ternal surface is concave " " Fig. 324.—^Inferior turbinated bone and lachrymal bone in situ. (fig. 326), and forms part of the inferior meatus. Its upper border is thin, irregular, and connected to various bones along the outer wall of the nose. It may be divided into three portions: of these, the anterior articu- lates with the inferior turbinated crest of the maxilla; the posterior with the inferior tur- binated crest of the palate ; the middle por- tion presents three -well- marked processes, which vary much in their size and form. Of these, the anterior and smallest is situated at the junction of the anterior fourth mth the posterior three- fourths of the bone: it is small and pointed, and is Ethmoidal process Frontal process Sit2>- turhinated crest Lachrymtil process hxf. turhi- nated crest called the lachrymal process (processus lacrimalis) ; it articulates, by its apex, with the descending or turbinal process of the lachrymal bone, aiid, by its margins, \\-ith the groove on the back of the frontal process of the maxilla, and thus assists in forming the canal for the nasal duct. Behind this process a broad, thin plate, the ethmoidal process (processus ethmoidalis) ascends to join the uncinate process of the ethmoid ; from its lower border a thin lamina