ARTICULATION OF OS CALCIS AND ASTRAGALUS 445 The Posterior Calcaneo-astragaloid Ligament lig. talocalcaneum oosterius) (fig. 475) coimects the external tubercle of the astragalus with the upper and inner part of the os caleis ; it is a short band, the fibres of which radiate from their narrow attachment to the astragalus The Interosseous Ligament (lig. talocalcaneum interosseum) (fig. 477) forms the chief bond of union between the bones. It is, in fact the umted capsular ligaments of the two joints mentioned above, tlie astragalo-calcaneo- navicularand the astragalo-calcanean, and consists of two partially united layers of fibres, one belonging to the anterior and the other to the posterior joint. It is attached by one extremity to the groove between the articular Fig 478. —Sagittal section of the right foot near its inner border, dividing the tibia, astragalus, navicular, internal cuneiform, and first metatarsal bone, and the first phalanx of the great toe. (After Braune.) 'TLEXOn IlllEVIS HALLtJCIS ExI. plaulnr vessels Abductor MINIMI digit: facets of the under surface of the astragalus; by the other, to a corresponding depression on the upper surface of the os calcis. It is very thick and strong, being at least an inch in breadth from side to side, and serves to unite the os calcis and astragalus solidly together. The Synovial Membrane (fig. 480) lines the capsule of the joint, and is distinct from the other synovial membranes of the tarsus. Movements.—The movements permitted between the astragalus and os calcis are hmited to gUding of the one bone on the other backwards and forwards and from side to side. 2. Articulation of the Astragalus with the Os Cai-cis and Navicular (Articul.'Vtio Talocalcaneonavicularis) The articulation between the astragalus and navicular is an arthrodial joint: the rounded head of the astragalus being received into the concavity formed by the posterior surface of the navicular, the anterior articular surface of the calcaneum, and the upper surface of the inferior calcaneo- navicular ligament, which are all directly continuous with each other. There are two ligaments in this joint : Capsular. Superior Astragalo-navicular. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) consists of a layer of fibres, imperfectly developed except posteriorly, where it becomes greatly increased, and forms, with a part of the capsule of the astragalo-calcanean joint, the strong interosseous ligament -which fills in the canal formed by the opposing grooves on the os calcis and astragalus, as above mentioned. The Superior Astragalo-navicular Ligament (lig. talonaviculare dorsale) (fig. 475) is a broad band, which passes obliquely forwards from the neck of the astragalus to the superior surface of the navicular bone. It is weak, and thin