195 COCCYX Fig. 260.—Coccyx. Coniua Budim. trans. process Anterior surface a separate piece ; the last three, diminishing in size from above downwards, are usually fused to form a single bone. TJie gradual diminution in the size of the segments gives this bone a triangular form, the base of the triangle joining the end of the sacrum. It presents for examination an anterior and a posterior surface, two' borders, a base, and an apex. The anterior surface is slightly concave, and marked wth three transverse grooves, indicating the lines of junction of the different segments. It gives attachment to the anterior sacro-coccygeal ligament and Levator ani, and supports the middle part of the rectum. The posterior surface is convex, marked by transverse grooves similar to those on the anterior surface ; and presents on either side a hnear row of tubercles, the rudimentary articular processes of the coccygeal vertebrje. Of these, the superior pair are large, and are called the cornua coccygea ; they project upwards, and articulate with the cornua of the sacrum, and on either side complete the fifth posterior sacral foramen for the transmission of the posterior primary division of the fifth sacral nerve. The lateral borders are thin, and exhibit a series of small eminences, which represent the transverse processes of the coccygeal vertebrae. Of these, the first is the largest; it is flattened from before backwards, and often ascends to join the lower part of the thin lateral edge of the sacrum, thus completing the fifth anterior sacral foramen for the transmission of the anterior primary division of the fifth sacral nerve; the others diminish in size from above downwards, and are often want- ing. The borders of the coccyx are nan'ow, and give attachment on either side to the sacro-sciatic ligaments, to the Coccygeus in front of the liga- ments, and to the Gluteus maximus behind them. The base presents an oval surface for articu- lation with the sacrum. The apex is rounded, and has attached to it the tendon of the external Sphincter muscle of the anus. It may be bifid, and is sometimes deflected to one or other side. Ossification of the vertebral column.—Each ver- tebra is ossified from three primary centres (fig. 261), two for the neural arch, and one for the body.* Ossification commences in the neural arches of the upper cervical vertebrte about the sixth week of foetal hie, and gradually extends down the column. The ossific granules first appear in the situations where the transverse processes afterwards project, and spread backwards to the spine, forwards into the pedicles, and outwards into the transverse and articular processes. Ossification of the body commences about the eighth week in the lower thoracic region, and subsequently extends upwards and downwards along the column. At birth these three pieces are perfectly separate. The ossific centre for the body does not give rise to the whole of the body of the adult vertebra ; the postero-lateral portions of the body are ossified by extensions from the neural arch centres. The body of the vertebra during the first few years of life shows, therefore, two synchon- droses (neurocentral stjnchondroses) traversing it along the lines of junction of the three centres. In the thoracic region, tlie facets for the heads of the ribs he behind the neuro-central synchondroses and are ossified from the centres for the nem-al arch. During the first year the laminae become united behind, union taking place first in the lumbar region and then extending upwards through the thoracic and lower cervical regions. About the third year the bodies of the upper cervical vertebrse are joined to the arches on either side ; in the lower lumbar vertebriB the union is not completed until the sixth year. Before puberty, no other changes * A vertebra is occasionally found in which the body consists of two lateral portions—a condition which proves that the body is sometimes ossified from two primary centres, one on either side of the middle line. o 2 Posterior surface