SYNDESMOLOGY 392 forwards, increasing the aiitero-posterior and transverse diameters of this region of the chest. The movement of the second rib is also slight in normal respiration, as its anterior extremitj' is fixed to the manubrium, and prevented therefore from moving upwards. The chondro-sternal articidation, however, allows the middle of the shaft to be drawn up, and in this way the transverse thoracic diameter is increased. Elevation of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth ribs raises and thrusts forwards their anterior extremities, the greater part of the movement being effected by the rotation of the rib-neck backwards. The thrust of the anterior extremities carries forwards and upwards the gladiolus, which moves on the manubrio-gladiolar joint, and thus the antero-posterior thoracic diameter is increased. This movement is, however, soon arrested, and the elevating force is then expended in raising the middle part of the rib-shaft and everting its lower border ; at the same time the costo-chondral angle is opened .., T^- 1. • it ■ c L out. Bv these latter movements Fro. 441.—Diagram showing the axis of movement -S i_i • • ^v, (AB)of avertebro-chondralrib. The interrupted a considerable mcrease in the lines indicate the position of the rib in in- transverse diameter of the thorax spiration. is effected. Vertebra - chondral ribs (fig. 441).—The seventh rib is in- cluded with this group, as it conforms more closely to their type. While the movements of these ribs assist in enlarging the thorax for respiratory purposes they are also concerned in in- creasing the upper abdominal space for viscera displaced by the action of the Diaphragm. The costal cartilages articvdate with one another, so that each pushes up that above it, the final thrust being directed to pushing forwards and upwards the lower end of the gladiolus. The amount of elevation of the an- terior extremities is limited on accoimt of the very slight rota- tion of the rib-neck. Elevation of the shaft is accompanied by an outward and backward move- ment ; the outward movement everts the anterior end of the rib and opens up the subcostal angle, while the backward movement pulls back the anterior extremity and counteracts the forward thrust due to its elevation; this latter is most noticeable in the lower ribs, which are the shortest. The total result is a considerable increase in the transverse and a diminution in the median antero-posterior diameters of the upper part of the abdomen; at the same time, however, the lateral antero-posterior diameters of the abdomen are increased. Vertebral ribs—These ribs, having only costo-central articulations with no interarticular Ligaments and free anterior extremities, are capable of slight move- ments in all directions. When the other ribs are elevated these are depressed and fixed to form points of action for the Diaphragm. VIII. ARTICULATION OP THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN WITH THE PELVIS The ligaments connecting the last lumbar vertebra with the sacrum are simUar to those which join the movable segments of the vertebral column with each other—viz.: 1. The continuation downwards of the anterior and posterior common ligaments. 2. The intervertebral disc, connectmg the body ot tiie last lumbar to that of the first sacral and forming an amp narthrodial joint. 3. Ligamenta subflava, connecting the arch of the last lumbar vertebra witn the posterior border of the sacral canal. 4. Capsular ligaments connecting