NEUROLOGY 920 Fig. 775.—Figui-e showing the mode of innervation of the In- ternal and External recti muscles of the eye (after Duval and Laborde). (Testut.) A small trephine (half-inch) is applied to the bone, below, but including the mfraorbital foramen and the antrum opened. The trephine is then applied to the posterior wall of the antrum 'and the spheno-maxillary fossa exposed. The infraorbital canal is opened uj) from below, and the nerve di-awn down into the trephine hole, it being held on'the stretch bv means of the piece of silk ; it is severed with fine curved scissors as near the j^'^^?" rotundum as possible, any branches coming ofi from the ganglion being also divided, ihe inferior dental nerve can be reached by a transverse mcision over the ramus of the jaw placed so as to avoid injury to the facial nerve; the Masseter muscle havmg been divided, a small trephine is applied to the ramus immediately beneath the masseteric notch, and, when the bone has been removed, the nerve is found lying on the Internal pterygoid ]ust as it enters the inferior dental canal, and it can here be resected. , ,. • ^, The lingual (gustatory) nerve is occasionally divided with the view of relievmg the pain in canceroul disease of the tongue. This may be done in that part of its course where it Ues below and behind the last molar tooth. If a line be drawn from the middle of the crown of the last molar tooth to the angle of the jaw it will cross the nerve, which Ues about half an inch behind the tooth, parallel to the bulging alveolar ridge on the inner side of the body of the bone. The tongue should be pulled forwards and over to the opposite side, when the nerve can be seen standing out as a firm cord under the mucous niembrane by the side of the tongue, and can be easily seized with a sharp hook and divided ov a portion excised. This is a simple enough operation on the cadaver, but ^^en the ^ea^e is extensive and has extended to the floor of the mouth as is generally the case when division of a nerve is required, the operation IS not practicable. In severe cases of neuralgia of the fifth nerve, the Gasserian ganghon J^^^ removed in whole or in part with a considerable measure of success. Rose was the first removeumvvu i^. . perform this operation; and he reached the ganghon by trephining the base of the skull m the position of the foramen ovale, after dividing the zygomatic arch, in front and behind, and turmng it and the Masseter muscle downwards, and. cuttmg through the coronoid process of the lower jaw, and turning it and the Temporal muscle upwards. A moi-e efficient method appeal's to be that known as the Itrau^fe-Hartl^y method. The bone forming the temporal fossa having been removed to a sufficient extent, the temporal lobe of the brain with the ' dura mater, is gradually raised froni the mid^e fossa, until th« foramen spinosum, with the middle meningeal artery passing through it, is exposed This vessel is to he ligatured in two places, and divided inetween the ligatures ; and then by further raising the temporal lobe, the foramina ovale and rotundum will be exposed, with the second and third divisions of the fifth nerve passing through them. These nerves are to be clearly defined and divided. The dura mater Is then to be raised from the ganglion, when tiie^hthalmic nerve will be exposed and must be divided, and the ganglion by means of a httle careful dissection, raised froni its bed and removed. In some cases where the neuralgia has been limited to the second chvision of the nerve an intracranial resection of that division alone has been performed with great success. In other cases where the disease ha.s not affected the ophthalmic division, ^esec ion o the outer half of the ganglion only, mth ^^^J^'^''^ and inferior maxillary nerves, has been V^^iovm^ thus leaving the sensory nerve supply to the ^oinea intact The motor root is usually resected Mth third divL.ion of the nerve, leading ^ comp ete paralysis of the muscles of mastication on that side. Sixth Nerve (figs. 769, 775) The Sixth nerve (n. abducens) supplier the External rectus muscle of the e^e ^'"its fibres arise from a smaU nucleus situated in tlie upper part of tbe flooi of the fourth ventricle, close to the mMdle ^^^^^^ ^^^J^X^o. They pass downwards and forwards through the pons, ana emerg a. Lea eyeball. 6. Kight eyeball. 1-^"''^I' nal rectvLS muscle. 2. Internal recto muscle. 1 Floor of fourth ventricle. 4. Nucleus o£ ;ixtl. nerve. 6. ^Ulclem of tJiird nen-c fi Sixt'i nerve. 7. Nerve lo Internal rectu-s arising from the nucleus of the third nerve of ?he sfme side. V. Nerve to the Internal rectus of the other side arismg froni Uic opposite nucleus. 8. Decussation of the fibres of sixth nerve to Internal recti.