SPLAiJCHNOLOGY 1234 Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the mamm;e are derived from the thoracic branches of the axillary, the intercostals, and the internal mammary. The veins describe an anastomotic circle round the base of the nipple, called by Haller tlie circulus venoms From this, large branches transmit the blood to the cu-cumference of the gland, and end in the axillary and internal mammary veins. The lympJiatics are described on page 790. The nerves are derived from the anterior and lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax. Applied Analomy.—The ducts descending from the nipple radiate through the'gland, and when an incision is made into the breast the scalpel should be dii-ected radially, frorn the centre to the periphery, so that it may not pass aci'oss the ducts. A milk duct may become obstructed and distended, forming a tumour known as a galactocele. Abscess frequently occurs about the breast, and most often in women who are lactating, especially those who have cracks or fissures about the nipple. The abscess may lie between the septa, in the breast-tissue itself ; or it may he Jbeneath the skin by the side of the nipple and superficial to the breast; or it may form beneath it, between the breast and the deep fascia. Free incision, radiating from the nipple, is requii-ed in such cases. Cystic formation of many different kinds is commonly seen in the mamma : in .some cases it is due to dilatation of the larger ducts or of the lymph spaces throughout the gland; in others the cysts occur in new growths of the mamma, or as the result of obstruction of the smaller ducts by chi-onic inflammatory processes. Malignant growths are seen more often in the breast than in any other organ; they are of great variety, but the commonest is the spheroidal-celled cancer, the cells of which are intermingled with a varying amount of fibrous tissue. A hard contractmg tumour-mass results, which drags on the fibrous septa between the lobes so that fixation or retraction of the nipple ensues, and sooner or later the malignant infiltration invades the surrounding breast-tissues, the skin, the deep fascia and Pectorals, and even the chest wall and pleura. The lymphatic glands beneath the Pectorals and those situated towards the apex of the axilla become early involved with secondary malignant deposit, and later the supraclavicular glands enlarge. In other cases the mediastinal glands may be involved, when the disease is situated on the inner side of the nipple. The operation for removal of a breast affected with malignant disease should be an extensive procedure, with the object of extu-pating all fascial planes and lymphatic struc- tures that may be infected. The incision commences below, over the upper part of the sheath of the Rectus, encloses the mamma by an ellipse, and is then continued on towards the apex of the axilla. The skin is reflected on both sides of the incision ; anteriorly, till the sternum is reached, and posteriorly to the posterior boundary of the axilla. The origin of the sternal portion of the Pectorahs major is then divided and turned backwards. The Pectoralis minor is next seen, and its origin is then divided in a similar manner. The whole of the muscular and fascial planes of the front of the chest are thus separated en masse, carrying with them the mamma and the skin covering it. The insertions of the two Pectorals have next to be divided, and finally the axillary lymphatic glands and fat are removed from the axillary vessels in one piece with the mass of tissue alread}' detached. This is done by first freely exposing the whole length of the axillary vein and then, with a blunt instrument, peehng the structures off the vein from above downwards, from the point where they are crossed by the Subclavius muscle to the lower border of the axilla. In this part of the operation many branches of both vein and artery require ligature. The only thing which then remains to be divided is the deep fascia along the posterior axillary wall. The wound is then closed, drainage is provided, and fu-m pressure is applied with the dressings. It will be noted that the clavicular portion of the Pectoralis major is left intact, as it is of considerable service for the subsequent movements of the arm, the utUity of which is but slightly impaired. THE DUCTLESS GLANDS There are certain organs which are very similar to secreting glands, but differ from them in one essential particular, viz. tliey do not possess any ducts by which their secretion is discharged. These organs are knomi as ductless glands. They are capable of internal secretion—that is to say, of forming, from materials brought to them in tlie blood, substances whicli have a certain influence upon the' nutritive and other changes going on in the body. This secretion is carried into the blood-stream, cither directly by the veins or indirectly tlirougli tlic medium of the lymphatics. These glands include the thyroid and the paratliyroids, the thymus, tlie spleen, the suprarenal glands, and tlio small carotid and cocc,ygeal bodies, which will be described in this section. Tliey also include the lymphatic glands, which have already been described m the section on Angiology ; and the pineal gland and pituitary body desciibed in tlie section on Neurology.