873 THE INTERNAL CAPSULE the cortico-striate fibres ; (2) to the thalamus, by fibres which pass through the internal capsule, and by a strand named the ansa Icnticularis ; (3) to tlie crus cerebri, by fibres which leave the lower aspect of the caudate and lenticular nuclei. The claustrum is a thin layer of grey matter, situated on the outer sur- face of the external capsule. On transverse section it is seen to be triangular, with its apex dh'ected upwards and its base downwards. Its inner surface, which is contiguous to the external capsule, is smooth, but its outer surface presents ridges and furrows which correspond with the convolutions and sulci of the island of ReU, with which it is in close relationship. The claustrum is regarded as a detached portion of the grey matter of the island of Reil, from which it is separated by a layer of white fibres, the capsula extrema or hand of Baillarger. Its cells are small and Fig. 743.—Horizontal section of the internal capsule. (Schematic.) (Testut.) Below the horizontal section, there is shown a transverse section of the corresponding eras cerebri. spindle-shaped, and contain yellow jjigment; they are similar to those found in the deepest layer of the cortex. The nucleus amygdalae is an ovoid mass of grey matter, situated in the roof of the descending horn, at its lower extremity. It is merely a locahsed thickening of the grey cortex, continuous with that of the uncus ; in front it is continuous with the putamen, behind with the taenia semicircularis and the tail of the caudate nucleus. The internal capsule is a flattened band of white fibres, which hes between the lenticular nucleus on the outer side and the caudate nucleus and thalamus on the inner side. In horizontal section (figs. 740, 743) it is seen to be somewhat abruptly curved, with its convexity inwards ; the prominence of the curve is called the genu, and pro- jects between the caudate nucleus and the thalamus. The portion in front of the genu is termed the anterior limb (pars frontalis), and separates the lenticular from the caudate nucleus; the portion be- hind the genu is the posterior hmb (pars occipitalis), and separates the lenticular nucleus from the thalamus. The anterior limb of the internal capsule contains: (I) fibres which pass fi-om the thalamus to the frontal lobe (cortico-thalamic) ; (2) fibres connecting the lenticidar and caudate nuclei (lenticulo-caudate); (3) fibres con- necting the cortex with the corpus striatum (cortico-striate); and (4) fibres P'j^'^sing from the frontal lobe to the nuclei pontis (cortico-pontine). The nbres which occupy the region of the genu are named the geniculate fibres; they originate in the motor part of the cerebral cortex, and, after passing downwards in the inner fifth of the crusta, undergo decussation and end in the motor nuclei of the cranial nerves of the opposite side. The anterior two-thirds of the posterior limb contains the pyramidal fibres, wliicli arise in the motor area of the cortex and, passing dowTiwards through the middle three-fifths of the crusta, are continued into the pyramids of the meduUa. The posterior third of the posterior limb contains : (1) sensory fibres, which are largely derived from the thalamus, but some of which may be continued 1. Thalamus. 3. Lenticular 0. Lateral thalamus. . 2'. Caudate nucleus, nucleus. 4, Claustrum. 5. Island of Reil. ventricle. 7. jVntorior stalk of optic 8. Optic radiations, a. Anterior segment of internal capsule. !>. Geniculate bundle (in green), c. Pyramidal fibres (in red). </. Posterior cortico-pontine fibres. e. Fillet.