15 EPITHELIUM of this superficial portion. It exists in the form of coarse granules, and is especially well seen in the stratum granulosum of the epidermis. The most superficial layers lose their nuclei, die, and are thrown or worn off. Stratified epithelium is found in the skin, in the mucous membrane of the nose, excepting the olfactory portion, in the mucous membrane of the mouth, part of the phar3''nx, the oesophagus and in the conjunctiva. Certain colls found in the deeper layers of stratified epithelium, and termed prickle-cells (fig. 16), constitute a variety of squamous epitheUum. They possess short, fine fibrils, which pass from their margins to those of neighbouring cells, ser\dng to connect them together cement-substance, but are separated from each other by ititercellular channels, across which the fibrils may be seen bridging. When a cell is isolated, it appears to be covered over with a number of short spines, in consequence of the fibrils being broken through. These cells were first described by Max Schultze and Virchow, and it was believed by them that the cells were dovetailed together. Martyn subsequently showed that this was not the case and that the prickles were attached to each other by their apices : and Delepine believes the prickles to be parts of fibrils forming internuclear bundles between the nuclei of the cells of an epithelium in a state of active growth (see page 7, and fig. 2). Transitional epithelium occurs in the ureters and urinary bladder. Here the cells of the most superficial layer are cubical, with depressions on their under surfaces, to fit on to the rounded ends of the cells of the second layer, which are pear-shaped, the apices touching the basement membrane. Between the tapering points of the cells of the second layer is a third variety of cells of smaller size than those of the other two layers (fig. 17). CONNECTIVE TISSUES The term connective tissue includes a number of tissues which possess this feature in common, viz. they support and connect the other tissues of the body. The connective tissues may differ considerably from each other in appearance, but they present many points of relationship, and are, moreover, developed from the same layer of the embryo, the mesoderm. They are divided into three great groups : (1) the connective tissues proper, (2) cartilage, and (3) bone. Blood, which has already been described, is, strictly speaking, a form of con- nective tissue, and is so dealt with by many histologists. The Connective Tissues Proper Several forms or varieties of connective tissue are recognised : (1) Areolar tissue. (2) White fibrous tissue. (3) Yellow elastic tissue. (4) Mucous tissue. (5) Retiform tissue. They are all composed of a homogeneous matrix, in which are imbedded cells and fibres—the latter of two kinds, white, and yellow or elastic. The distinction between the different forms of tissue depends upon the relative preponderance of one or other Idnd of fibre, of cells, or of matrix. Connective tissue corpuscles.—The cells of the connective tissues are of three principal kinds : (1) Flattened lamellar cells, which may be either branched or unbranched. The branched lamellar cells are composed of clear cell-substance, and contain oval nuclei. The processes of these cells unite so as to form an open network, as in the cornea. The unbranched cells are joined edge to edge Hke the cells of an epitheHum. The ' tendon cells,' presently to be described, are examples of this variety. (2) Granule cells, which are ovoid or spheroidal in shape. They are formed of a soft protoplasm, containing granules which are albuminous in character and stain deeply with eosin. (3) Plasma cells of \yaldeyer, varying greatly in size and form, but distinguished from the other two varieties by con- taining a vacuolated protoplasm. The vacuoles are filled with fluid, and the