TEMPORO-MANDIBULAR JOINT 385 The sjrinding movement is caused by the alternate action of the two Pterygoids of either side. Surface Form.—The temporo-mandibular articulation is quite superficial, and is situated below the base of the zygoma, in front of the tragus and external auditory meatus, and behind the posterior border of the upper part of the Masseter. Its position can be ascertaiaed by feeling for the condyle of the jaw, the movements of which can be distinctly felt in opening and shutting the mouth. When the mouth is opened wide, the condyle advances out of the glenoid fossa on to the eminontia articularis, and a depression is felt in the situation of the joint. Applied Anatomy.—The mandible is dislocated only in one direction—viz. forwards. The accident is caused by violence or muscular action. When the mouth is open, the 1 ondyle is situated on the eminentia articularis, and any sudden violence, or even a sudden nmsoular spasm, as during a convulsive yaw, may displace the condyle forwards into I he zygomatic fossa. The displacement may be unilateral or bilateral. Reduction is accomplished by depressing the jaw with the thumbs placed on the last molar teeth, and at the same time elevating the chin. The downward pressure overcomes the spasm of the Masseter, Temporal and Internal pterygoid, and elevation of the chin tlirows the condyle backwards ; the above-mentioned muscles then draw the condyle !)ack into its normal position. In close relation to the condyle of the mandible are the external auditory meatus and the tympanum ; any force, therefore, applied to the bone is liable to be attended with damage to these parts, or inflammation in the joint may extend to the ear; or on the other hand inflammation of the middle ear may involve the articulation and cause its destruction, thus leading to ankylosis of the joint. The joint is also occasionally the seat of osteo-artliritis, leading to great suffering during efforts of mastication. A peculiar affection sometimes attacks the neck and condyle of the mandible, consisting in liypertrophy and elongation of these parts and consequent protrusion of the chin to the opposite side. V. AKTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS WITH THE VERTEBB^ (ARTICULATIONES COSTOVERTEBRALES) The articulations of the ribs with the vertebral column may be divided into two sets : 1, those which connect the heads of the ribs with the bodies Fig. 435.—Costo-eentral and costo-transverse articulations. Anterior view. Inlerarticular ligament Louer synovial cavity of the vertebrse (costo-cenlral) ; 2, those \\ hich connect the necks and tubercles or tlie ribs with the transverse processes {costo-transverse) C 0