THE EYE 1023 off numerous &ie fibrils, wliich come in contact \vitli the outer processes of the cone-bipolars. 8. The membrana Umitans externa.—Tliis layer, like the membrana limitans interna, is derived from the supporting framework of the retina, with which it will be described. 9. Jacob's membrane {layer of rods ami cones).—The elements whicli compose this layer are of two kinds, rods and cones, the former being much more numerous than the latter. The rods are of nearly uniform size, and are arranged perpendicularly to the surface. Each rod consists of two segments, an outer and inner, of about equal lengths. The segments differ from each other as regards refraction and in tlieir behaviour with colouring reagents, the inner segment becoming stained by carmine, iodine, &c., the outer segment remaining unstained with these reagents, but staining yellowish-brown with osmic acid. The outer segment is marked by transverse striae, and tends to break up mto a number of tliin discs superimposed on one another. It also exhibits faint longituduial markings. The inner segment at its deeper part where it is joined to the outer process of the rod-granule, is indistinctly granular ; its more superficial part presents a longitudinal striation, being composed of fine, bright, highly refracting fibrils. The visual purple or rhodopsin is found only in the outer segments. The cones are conical or flask-shaped, their broad ends resting upon the membrana limitans externa, the narrow pointed extremity being turned to the choroid. Like the rods, each is made up of two segments, outer and inner ; the outer segment is a short conical process, which, like the outer segment of the rod, exhibits transverse striae. The inner segment resembles the inner segment of the rods in structure, presenting a superficial striated and deep granular jjart, but differs from it in size and shape, being bulged out laterally and flask-shaped. The chemical and optical characters of the two portions are identical with those of the rods. 10. The pigmented layer.—The most external layer of the retina, formerly regarded as a part of the choroid, consists of a single layer of hexagonal epithelial cells, loaded with pigment-granules. They are smooth externally, where they are in contact with the choroid, but internally they are prolonged into fine, straight processes, which extend between the rods, this being especially the case when the eye is exposed to light. In the eyes of albinos, the cells of the pigmented layer are present, but they contain no colouring matter. Supporting framework of the retina.—Almost all these layers of the retina are connected together by a supporting framework, formed by the fibres of Midler, or radiating fibres, from which the membranae limitans interna et externa are derived. These fibres stretch between the two limiting layers, ' as columns between a floor and a ceiling,' and pass through all the nervous layers, except Jacob's membrane. Each commences on the inner surface of the retina by an expanded, often forked, base, which sometimes contains a spheroidal body, staining deeply with haematoxylin, the edges of the bases of adjoining fibres being united to form the membrana limitans interna. As they pass thi-ough the nerve-fibre and ganglionic layers they give off few lateral branches ; in the inner nuclear layer tliey give oii numerous lateral processes for the support of the inner granules, wliile in the outer nuclear layer they form a, network around the rod- and cone-fibrils, and uxiite to form the external limiting membrane at the bases of the rods and cones. In the imier nuclear layer each fibre of Miiller presents a clear oval nucleus, which is sometimes situated at the side of, sometimes altogether within, the fibre. Macula lutea and fovea centralis.—The structure of the retina at the jrellow spot presents some modifications. In the macula lutea: (1) the nerve-fibres are wanting as a continuous layer ; (2) the ganglionic layer consists of several strata of cells, instead of a single layer ; (3) m Jacob's membrane there are no rods, but only cones, and these are longer and narrower than in other parts ; and (4) in the outer nuclear layer there are only cone-fibres, wliich are very long and arranged in curved lines. At the fovea centralis the only parts which exist are (1) the cones of Jacob's membrane ; (2) the outer nuclear la.yer, the cone-fibres of which are almost horizontal in direction ; (3) an exceedingly thin hmer plexiform layer ; (4) the pigmented layer, which is thicker and its pigment more pronounced than elsewhere. The colour of the macula seems to