THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA 819 nerve-roots pass forward between the anterior and lateral areas of the medulla, and emerge from tlie preolivary sulcus. 2. The motornucleus (figs. 697, 698) common to the glosso-pharyngeal,vagus, and bulbar portion of the spinal accessory nerves, is named the nucleus ambiguus. It represents the head of the anterior horn, lies deeply in the formatio reticularis grisea, and extends thi-oughout nearly the whole length of the medulla. 3. The sensory nu£lev^ (figs. 697, 699), or nucleus of termination of the sensory fibres of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus, represents the base of the posterior horn. It measures nearly three-quarters of an inch in length, and m the lower, closed part of the medulla is situated behind the liypoglossal nucleus ; whereas in the upper, open part it lies to the outer side of that nucleus, and corresponds to an eminence, named the irigonum vagi, in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Fig. 698.—Nuclei of origin of cranial motor nerves schematically represented ; lateral view. 4. The nuclei of the auditory nerve are described on page 825. 5. The olivary nuclei (fig. 695) are three in number on either side of the middle line, viz. the inferior olivary nucleus, and the mesial and dorsal accessory oUvary nuclei ; they consist of small, round, yellowish cells and Jiumerous fine nerve-fibres, (a) The inferior olivary nucleus (nucleus olivaris inferior) is the largest of these, and is situated within the olivary body. It consists of a grey folded lamina arranged in tiie form of an incomplete capsule, which opens internally by an aperture called the hilus, emerging from which are numerous fibres which collectively constitute the peduncle of the olive, (b) The mesial accessory olivary nucleus (nucleus olivaris accessoriiis medialis) lies between the inferior oUvary nucleus and the anterior pyramid, and forms a curved lamina, the concavity of wliicli is directed outwards. The fibres of the hypoglossal nerve, as they traverse the meduUa, pass between the mesial accessory and the inferior olivaiy nuclei, (c) The dorsal accessory olivary nucleus (imcleus olivaris accessorius dorsalis) is the smallest of the three, and 3 G 2