APPLIED ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA 1073 Vessels and Nerves.—The trachea is supplied with blood by the inferior thyroid arteries. The veins terminate in the thyroid venous plexus. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and its recurrent branches, and from the sympathetic. . Surface Form —In the middle line of the neck, some of the cartilages of the larynx can be'readily distinguished. In the receding angle below the chin, the hyoid bone can easily be made out (see page 261), and a finger's breadth below it is the pomum Adami the prominence between the upper borders of the two ate of the thyi'oid cartilage. About an inch below this, in the middle line, is a depression corresponding to the crico-thyroid space, in which the operation of laryngotomy is performed. This depression is bounded below by a prominent arch, the anterior part of the cricoid cartilage, below which the trachea can be felt, though it is only in the emaciated that the separate rings can be distincruished. The lower part of the trachea is not easily made out, for as it descends in the neck it takes a deeper position. The level of the vocal cords corresponds to the middle of the anterior margin of the thyroid cartilage. . , With the laryngoscope the following structures can be seen : the base of the tongue, and the upper surface of the epiglottis, with the glosso-epiglottic ligaments ; the superior aperture of the larynx, bounded on either side by the aryteno-epiglottic folds, m which may be seen two roiuided eminences, corresponding to the cornicula and cuneiform cartilages. Beneath these lie the false and true vocal cords with theventricle between them. Still deeper are seen the cricoid cartilage and some of the anterior parts of the rmgs of the trachea, and somethnes, in deep inspkation, the bifiu'cation of the trachea. Applied Anatomy.—Foveign bodies often find thek way into the au'-passages. These may consist of large soft substances, as pieces of meat, which may become lodged in the upper apertiu-e of the larynx, or in the rima glottidis, and cause speedy suffocation unless rapidly got rid of, or unless an opening is made into the air-passages below, so as to enable the patient to breathe. Smaller bodies, fi-equently of a hard nature, such as cherry or plum stones, small pieces of bone, buttons, &c., may find theii- way through the nma glottidis into the trachea or bronchus, or may become lodged in the ventricle of the larynx. The dangers then depend not so much upon the mechanical obstruction as upon the spasm of the glottis wliich they excite from reflex irritation. When lodged ua the ventricle of the larynx, they may produce very few symptoms, beyond sudden loss of voice or alteration in the voice sounds immediately after the inhalation of the foreign body. When, however, they are situated in the trachea, they are constantly striking against the vocal cords during expu-atory efforts, and produce attacks of dyspnoea from spasm of the glottis. When lodged in the bronchus, they usually become fixed there, and, occluding the lumen of the tube, cause a loss of the respiratory murmur on the affected side, and may subsequently lead to purulent bronchitis and gangrene of the lung. Foreign bodies in the air-passages should always be removed as soon as possible. In the less urgent cases a thorough examination of the pharynx, larynx, and bronchi should be made, using one or another of the modern forms of laryngoscope, tracheoscope, or bronchoscope ; when discovered, the foreign body should be removed by appropriately shaped forceps. In the cases where urgent dyspnoja is produced and death seems imminent from asphyxia, after digital examination of the back of the throat and mversion with shaking of the patient have failed to give relief, tracheotomy should be rapidly performed. Beneath the mucous membrane of the upper part of the air-passages there is a con- siderable amount of submucous tissue, which is liable to become much swollen from effusion in inflammatory affections, constituting the condition kno\ra as ' cedema of the glottis.' This effusion does not extend below the level of the vocal cords, on account of the fact that the mucous membrane is closely adherent to these structures without the intervention of any submucous tissue. So that, in cases of cedema of the glottis, in which it is necessary to open the air-passages to prevent suffocation, the operation of laryngotomy is sufficient. Laryngeal orglottidean cedema may be secondary to some local inflammatory affection, such as acute septic laryngitis, syphilitic laryngeal perichondritis, or to malignant disease. Or the oedema may be passive (non-inflammatory), consequent upon renal or cardiac mischief, angioneurotic oedema, or, in unusually susceptible persons, the administration of potassium iodide. Chronic laryngitis is an inflammation of the mucous glands of the larynx, which occurs in those who speak much in public, and is known as ' clergyman's sore throat.' It is due to the di-yness induced by the large amount of cold air diawn into the air-passages during prolonged speaking, which excites increased activity of the mucous glands to keej) the parts moist, and this eventually terminates in inflammation of these stractui'es. Ulceration of the larynx may occur from syphilis, either as a superficial ulceration, or from the softening of a gumma ; from tuberculous disease (larj'ngeal phthisis), or from malignant disease (epithelioma). The air-passages may be opened in three different situations : by a vertical incision through the centre of the thyroid cartilage {thyrotomy) ; through the crico-thyroid membrane (laryngotomy), or in some part of the tracliea {tracheotomy). Thyrotomy is usually performed for the purpose of removing growths from the vocal cords or for extracting foreign bodies from the ventricle of the larynx. A median incision 3 z