THE LARYNX 1061 line, and is distinguished from the alse by being more transparent and more ^^^The cricoid cartilage (cartilago cricoidea) is so called from its resemblance to a signet ring. It is smaller, but thicker and stronger than the thyroid cartilage, and forms the lower and back part of the wall of the larynx, it consists of two parts : a quadrate portion, situated behmd, and a narrow ring or arch, one-fourth or one-fifth of the depth of the posterior part situated m front. The posterior square portion rapidly narrows at the sides of the cartilage, at the expense of the upper border, into the anterior portion. The posterior portion is very deep and broad, and measures from above downwards about an inch (2 to 3 cm.) ; it presents, on its posterior surface, in the middle hne, a vertical ridge for the attachment of the longitudinal hbres of the oesophagus ; and on either side of this a broad depression for the Crico-arytenoideus posticus muscle. 4.- n u + The anterior portion is narrow and convex, and measures verticaUy about one-fourth or one-fifth of an inch (7 to 5 mm.) ; it affords attachment externally in front and at the sides to the Crico-thyroid muscles, and behmd, to part of the Inferior constrictor. _ ■ , i. t t-i. At the junction of the posterior quadi-ate portion with the rest ot tne cartilage is a small round articular eminence on either side, for articulation with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. , j ^^.v. The loiver border of the cricoid cartilage is horizontal, and connected to ttie upper ring of the trachea by a fibrous membrane. The upper border is directed obliquely upwards and backwards, owing the threat depth of the posterior surface. It gives attachment, in front, to the middle portion of the crico-thyroid membrane ; at the sides, to the lateral portions of the same membrane and to the Crico-arytenoideus laterahs muscles ; behind, it presents, in the middle, a shallow notch, and on either side of this is a smooth, oval, convex surface, directed upwards and outwards, for articulation with the base of an arytenoid cartilage. The inner surface of the cricoid cartilage is smooth, and uned by mucous membrane. The arytenoid cartilages (cartilagines arytsenoidese) are two in number, and situated at the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, at the back of the larynx. Each cartilage is pyi-amidal in form, and presents for examination three surfaces, a base, and an apex. The posterior surface is triangular, smooth, concave, and gives attachment to the Aj-ytenoideus muscle. The antero-external surface is somewhat convex and rough. It presents rather below its centre a transverse ridge, to the inner extremity of which is attached the false vocal cord ; to the outer part, as well as to the surfaces above and below it, the Thyro-arytenoideus muscle is inserted. The internal surface is narrow, smooth, and flattened, covered by mucous membrane, and forms the lateral boundary of the respiratory part of the glottis. The base of each cartilage is broad, and presents a concave smooth surface, for articulation with the cricoid cartilage. Two of its angles require special mention :■ the external, which is short, rounded, and prominent, projects back- wards and outwards, and is termed the processus muscularis ; it gives insertion to the Crico-arytenoideus posticus behind, and to the Crico-arytenoideus lateralis in front. The anterior angle, also prominent, but more pointed, projects horizontally forwards, and gives attachment to the true vocal cord. This angle is called the processus vocalis. The apex of each cartilage is pointed, curved backwards and inwards, and surmounted by a small conical, cartilaginous nodule, the corniculum laryngis. The cornicula laryngis or cartilages of Santorini (cartilagines corni- culatae) are two small conical nodules, consisting of yellow elastic cartilage, which articulate with the summits of the arytenoid cartilages and serve to prolong them backwards and inwards. They are situated in the posterior parts of the aryteno-epiglottic folds of mucous membrane, and are sometimes united to the arytenoid cartilages. The cuneiform cartilages or cartilages of Wrisberg (cartilagines cuneiformes) are two small, elongated pieces of yellow elastic cartilage, placed one on either side, in the aryteno-epiglottic fold, where they give rise to small