513 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN into an outer and an inner portion—tlie former being termed the ligament of Hesselbach ; tlic latter, the lujament of Henle (fig. 507). The Rectus abdominis is a long flat muscle, which extends along the whole length of the front of tlie abdomen, being sejDarated from its feUow of the ojiposite side by the linea alba. It is much broader, but thinner, above than below, and arises by two tendons, the external or larger being attached to the crest of the pubis, the internal, smaller portion, interlacing with its fellow of the opposite side, and being connected with the ligaments covering the front of the symphysis pubis. The muscle is inserted by three portions of unequal size into the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. The upper portion, attached principally to the cartilage of the fifth rib, usually has some fibres of insertion into the anterior extremity of the rib itself. Some fibres are occasionally connected with the costo-xiphoid ligaments, and side of the ensiform cartilage. The Rectus muscle is traversed by tendinous intersections, three in number, which have received the name of linece transverscB (inscriptiones tendineie). One of these is usually situated opposite the umbilicus, one corresponds to the extremity of the ensiform cartilage, and the other is about midway between the ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus. These intersections pass trans- versely or obliquely across the muscle in a zigzag course ; they rarely extend completely through its substance ; they may pass only halfway across it, and are intimately adherent in front to the sheath in which the muscle is enclosed. Sometimes one or two additional lines, generally incomplete, may be seen below the umbilicus. Fig. 508.—Diagram of sheath of Rectus. The Rectus is enclosed in a sheath (fig. .508) formed by the aponeuroses of the Oblique and Transversalis muscles, which are arranged in the following manner. When the aponeurosis of the Internal oblique arrives at the outer margin of the Rectus, it divides into two lamellae, one of which passes in front of the Rectus, blending with the aponeurosis of the External oblique, the other, behind it, blending with the aponeurosis of the Transversalis, and tliese, joinmg again at its inner border, are inserted into the linea alba. This arrangement of the aponeurosis exists from the costal margin to midway between the umbilicus and symphysis pubis, where the posterior wall of the sheath terminates in a thin curved margin, the semihmar fold of Douglas (linea semicu-cularis), the concavity of which looks downwards towards the pubis : below this level the aponeuroses of all three muscles pass in front of the Rectus without any separation. Tlie extremities of the fold of DouMas descend as pillars to the pubis. The inner pillar is attached to the symphysis pubis ; the outer pillar, the ligament of Hesselbach, or outer part of the conjoined tendon, passes downwards as a distinct band on the inner side of the internal abclominal rmg, and there its fibres divide mto two sets, internal and external: tUe internal fibres are attached to the ascending ramus of the pubis and the pectineal fascia ; the external ones pass to the Psoas fascia, to the deep surface ot Foupart's ligament, and to the tendon of the Transversalis on the outer siae ot the ring. The Rectus muscle, m the situation where its sheath is m ffnil^^ L*^^^' separated from the peritoneum by the fascia transversalis ing. 5U9). Since the tendons of the Internal oblique and Transversahs only R^ffi 11^^ margin, it follows that above this level the fiieatu ot the Rectus is also deficient behind, the muscle resting directly on