SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY 665 The mediastinal, pericardial, and sternal branches, together with some twigs from the comes nervi phrenici, anastomose with branches from the intercostal and bronchial arteries, and form a miiiute plexus beneath the pleura, which has been named by iurner the sithpleural mediastinal flexus. , , , „ r The anterior intercostal branches (rami intercostales) supply the upper hvc or six intercostal spaces. Two in number in each space, these small vessels pass outwards one lying near the lower margin of the rib above, and the other near the upper margin of the rib below and anastomose with the intercostal arteries from the aorta. Ihey are at hrst situated between the pleura and the Internal intercostal muscles, and then between the Internal and External mtercostal muscles. They supply the Intercostal muscles and, by branches which perforate the External intercostal muscle, the Pectoral muscles and the mammarv gland. , , • • ^ The perforating branches (rami perforantes) correspond to the hve or six upper inlei- costal spaces. They pass forwards through the intercostal spaces, and, curving outwards, supply the Pectoralis major and the mtegument. Those which correspond to the second, third, and fourth spaces are distributed to the mammary gland, and during lactation are of large size. . , , ,. it j The musculo-phrenic (a. musculophremca) is directed obliquely downwards and outwards, behind the cartilages of the false ribs, perforates the Diaphragm at the eighth or ninth costal cartilage, and terminates, considerably redviced in size, opposite the last intercostal space. It gives ofi anterior intercostal arteries to the seventh, eighth, and ninth intercostal spaces ; these diminish in size as the spaces decrease in length, and are distributed in a manner precisely similar to the anterior intercostals from the internal mammary. The musculo-phrenic also gives branches to the lower part of the pericardium, and others which run backwards to the Diaphragm, and downwards to the abdominal muscles. The superior epigastric (a. epigastrica superior) continues in the original direction of the internal mammary ; it descends through the cellular interval between the costal and sternal attachments of the Diaphragm, and enters the sheath of the Rectus abdominis muscle, at first lying behind the muscle, and then perforating and supplying it, and anastomosing with the deep epigastric artery from the external iliac. Some vessels perforate the anterior wall of the sheath of the Rectus, and supply the muscles of the abdomen and the integument, and a small branch, which passes inwards upon the side of the ensiform appendix, anastomoses in front of that cartilage with the artery of the opposite side. It also gives some twigs to the Diaphragm, while from the artery of the right side small branches extend into the falciform Ligament of the liver and anastomose with the hepatic artery. Applied Anatomy.—The course of the internal mammary artery may be defined by a line drawn half an inch oiitside and parallel -with the sternal margin. The vessel is liable to be wounded in stabs of the chest-wall and in the operation of paracentesis pericardii (page 600). It is most easily reached by a transverse incision in the second intercostal space. 4. The superior intercostal (truncus costocervicalis) (fig. 580) arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery, behind the Scalenus anticus on the right side, and internal to that muscle on the left side. Passing backwards, it gives off the profunda cervicis, and then descends behind the pleura in front of the necks of the first and second ribs, and anastomoses with the first aortic intercostal. As it crosses the neck of the first rib it lies to the inner side of the anterior division of the first thoracic nerve, and to the outer side of the first thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic. In the first intercostal space, it gives off a branch which is distributed in a manner similar to the distribution of the aortic intercostals. The branch for the second intercostal space usually joins with one from the highest aortic intercostal. This branch is not constant, but is more commonly fomid on the right side ; when absent, its place is supplied by an intercostal branch from the aorta. Each inter- costal gives off a branch to the posterior spinal muscles, and a small one which passes through the corresponding intervertebral foramen to the spinal cord and its membranes. The profunda cervicis (a. cervicalis profunda) arises, in most cases, from the superior intercostal, and is analogous to the posterior branch of an aortic inter- costal artery : occasionally it is a separate branch from the subclavian artery. Passing backwards, above the eighth cervical nerve and between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, it runs up