797 THE SPINAL CORD Decussation of the pyramids ' Anterior tnedian fissure Posterior 'intermediate sulcus _ Cervical enlargement Posterior nedian fissure Postero- lateral sulcus of spinal nerves are grouped as follows : cervical 8, thoracic 12, lumbar 5. sacral 5, coccygeal 1, and, for convenience of description, the cord is divided into cervical, thoracic, lumbar and sacral regions, corresponding with tliese different groups of nerves. Although no trace of trans- Fig. 674.—Diagrams of the spinal cord, verse segmentation is visible on the surface of the spinal cord it is convenient to regard it as being built up of a series of superimposed spinal segments or neuromeres, each of which has a length equivalent to the extent of attachment of a pair of spinal nerves. Since the distance between the successive pairs of nerves varies in differ- ent parts of the cord, it follows that the spinal segments are of varying lengths; thus, in the cervical region they average about thirteen millimetres, in the mid-thoracic region about twenty-six millimetres, while in the lumbar and sacral regions they diminish rapidly from about fifteen mUlunetres at the level of the first pair of lumbar nerves to about four miUimetres oppo- site the attachments of the lower sacral nerves. As a consequence of the unequal rate of growth of the spinal cord and vertebral column, the nerve-roots, which at first passed transversely outwards to reach their respec- tive intervertebral foramina, become more and more oblique in direction from above doAvn- wards, so that tlie lower part of the tubular sheath of dura mater is occupied by the lumbar and sacral nerves, which de- scend almost vertically to reach their points of exit. From the appearance these nerves pre- sent at their attachment to tlie cord and from their great length they are collectively termed the Cauda equina (fig. 673). The filum terminale is a delicate filament, about eight inches in length, prolonged down\vards from the apex of the conus medullaris. It con- sists of two parts, an upper and a lower. The upper part, or filum terminale internum, mea- sures about six inches in length and reaches as far as the lower border of the second sacral ver- tebra. It is contained within the tubular sheath of dura Ventral aspect Dorsal aspect Lumbar enlargement -Conus — Filum ■