628 ANGIOLOGY must be avoided, and the shoath of the vessel having been raised by forceps, is to be opened to a small extent over the artery at its inner side. The internal jugular vein may present itself alternately distended and relaxed ; this should be compressed both above and below, and di-ami outwards, in order to facilitate the operation. The aneurysm needle is passed from the outside, care being taken to keep the needle in close contact with the arterjs and thus avoid the risk of injurmg the internal jugular vein, or including the vagus nerve. Before the ligature is tied, it should bo ascertained that nothing but the artery is included in it. Ligature of the common carotid at the lower part of the neck.—This operation is some- times required in cases of aneurysm of the upper part of the carotid, especially if the sac is of large size. It is best performed by divicling the sternal origin of the Stcrno- mastoid muscle, but may be done in some cases, if the aneurysm is not of very large size, by an incision along the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, extending down to the sterno-clavicular articulation, and by then retracting the muscle. The easiest and best plan, however, is to make an incision two or three inches long down the lower part of the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle to the sterno-clavicular joint, and a second incision, startmg from the termination of the first, along the upper border of the clavicle for about two mches. This incision is made through the superficial and deep fasciai and the sternal origm of the muscle is exposed. This is to be divided on a director and turned up, with the superficial structures, as a triangular flap. Some loose comiective tissue is to be divided or torn through, and the outer border of the Sterno-hyoid muscle exposed. In doing this, care must be taken not to wound the anterior jugular vein, which crosses the muscle to reach the external jugular or subclavian vem. The Sterno- hyoid and Stemo-thyi-oid are to be drawn mwards by means of a retractor, and the sheath of the vessel exposed. This must be opened with great care on its mner or tracheal side, so as to avoid the internal jugular vein. This is especiaUy necessary on the left side, where the artery is commonly overlapped by the vein. On the right side there is usually an interval between the artery and the vem, and the risk of woundmg the vein is less. , . , , , ■ i^- i i The common carotid artery, being a long vessel without any branches, is particularly suitable for the performance of Brasdor's operation for the cure of an aneurysm of the lower part of the vessel. Brasdor's procedure consists in hgaturing the artery on the distal side of the aneurysm, and in the case of the common carotid there are no branches given ofi from the vessel between the aneurysm and the site of the Hgatm-e; hence the flow of blood through the sac of the aneui-ysm is cbminished, and cure takes place m the usual way by the deposit of lammated fibrm. ,., ^, „ ^ , • , 4--„„ Collateral Circ^dation.—Mtev ligature of the common carotid, the eoUateral circulation can be perfectly estabhshed, by the free communication which exists between the carotid arteries of opposite sides, both without and Avithin the cranium, and by enlargement of the branches of the subclavian artery on the side corresponding to that on which the vessel has been tied The chief communications outside the skull take place between the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, and the profunda cervicis and arteria princeps cervicis of the occipital; the vertebral takes the place of the internal carotid withm the cranium. ExTEENAL Carotid Artery The external carotid artery (a. carotis externa) (%• 574) commences opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartila|e and, takuig a .shghtly ciuved course, passes upwards and forwards, and then mchnes back^^ard. ?o the space behind the ieck of the mandible, where it divides mto the super- ficial temporal and internal maxillary arteries. It rapidly dmrmishes m in its course up the neck, owing to the number and large size o tl«^ biand^^^^^^ eiven off froin it. In the child, it is somewhat smaller than the internal carSid butTn the adult, the two vessels are of nearly equal size. At its origTn this artery is more superficial, and placed nearer the middle hue than the internal carotid, and is contained within the carotid tnangle. Relations.-The external carotid artery is covered 6?/ the skm supei hci. 1 fascia Platysma, deep fascia, and anterior margm of the Sterno-mastoid it is crossed by the h^pogllssal ne^vc, by the lingual, ranine, facial and superior thyro d veins and bv So Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles; higher up it passes deeply Into the substance of the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the facial nerve a^ d the imictbn of the temporal and internal maxillary veins. Internalh, are the In o d hnn^ the w ill of the pharynx, the superior laryngeal nerve, and a portion of the mrotid Ldand ExZrnll in tho lowSr part of its course, is the internal carotid Irte^v SuZ t carorigin, is the'superior laryngeal nerve ; and higher up JSpaSdt^nX intern^ carotid byke ^tylo-gl-us and St. o-j^ar^^ muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal ner^^e, the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, ana part of the parotid gland.