537 MUSCLES AND FASCL5: OF SHOULDER AND ARM to the clavicle, acromion, and. spine of the scaj)ula ; it forms a thin, loose, membranous sheath investing the muscles of the arm, and sends inwards septa between them ; it is composed of fibres disposed in a circular or spiral direction, and connected together by vertical and oblique fibres. It differs in thickness at different parts, being thin over the Biceps, but thicker where it covers the Triceps, and over the condyles of the humerus : it is strengthened by fibrous aponeuroses, derived from the Pectoralis major and Latissimus dorsi on the inner side, and from the Deltoid externally. On either side it gives off a strong intermuscular septum, which is attached to the corresponding supra- condylar ridge and condyle of the humerus. These septa serve to separate the muscles of the anterior from those of tlie posterior brachial region. The external intermuscular septum extends from the lower part of the anterior bicipital ridge, along the external supracondylar ridge, to the outer epicondyle ; it is blended with the tendon of the Deltoid, gives attachment to the Triceps beliind, to the Brachialis anticus, Bx-acliio-radiaUs and Extensor carpi radialis longior in front, and is perforated by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. The internal intermuscular septum, thicker than the preceding, extends from the lower part of the posterior lip of the bicipital groove below the Teres major, along the internal supracondylar ridge to the inner epicondyle ; it is blended with the tendon of the Coraco-brachialis, and affords attachment to the Triceps behind and the Brachialis anticus in front. It is perforated by the ulnar nerve, the inferior profunda artery, and the posterior branch of the anastomotic artery. At the elbow, the deep fascia is attached to all the prominent points round the joint, viz. the epicondyles of the humerus and the olecranon process of the ulna, and is continuous with the deep fascia of the forearm. Just below the middle of the arm, on its inner side, in front of the internal intermuscular septum, is an oval opening in the deep fascia, which transmits the basilic vein and some lymphatic vessels. The Coraco-brachialis, the smallest of the tliree muscles in this region, is situated at the upper and inner part of the arm. It arises by fleshy fibres from the apex of the coracoid process, in common with the short head of the Biceps, and from the intermuscular septum, between the two muscles ; the fibres pass downwards, backwards, and a little outwards, to be inserted by means of a flat tendon into an impression at the middle of the inner surface and internal border of the shaft of the Jiumerus between the origins of the Triceps and Brachialis anticus. It is perforated by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The inner border of the muscle forms a guide to the position of the terminal portion of the axillary and upper part of the brachial arteries. Relations.—The Coraco-brachialis is in relation by its anterior surface with the Pectoralis major above, and at its insertion with the brachial vessels and median nerve which cross it; by its posterior surface, with the tendons of the Subscapxilaris, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major, the inner head of the Triceps, the humerus, and the anterior circumflex vessels ; by its inner border, with the third part of the axillary and the upper part of the brachial artery and the median and muscido-cutaneous nerves; by its outer border, with the short head of the Biceps and Brachialis anticus. The Biceps (m. biceps brachii) is a long fusiform muscle, occupying the anterior surface of the arm, and divided above into two portions or heads, from which cu-cumstance it has received its name. The short head (caput breve) arises by a thick flattened tendon from the apex of the coracoid process, in common with the Coraco-brachialis. The long head (caput longum) arises from the supraglenoid tubercle at the upper margin of the glenoid cavity, and is continuous witli the glenoid ligament. This tendon arches over tlie head of the humerus, being enclosed in a special sheath of the synovial mem- brane of the shoulder-joint ; it then passes through an opening in the capsular ligament at its attachment to the humerus, and descends in the bicipital groove, in which it is retained by the transverse humeral ligament and by a fibrous prolongation from the tendon of the Pectoralis major. Each tendon is succeeded by an elongated muscular belly, and the two bellies, although closely applied to each other, can readily be separated until within about three inches of the elbow-joint. Here they end in a flattened tendon, which IS inserted into the rough posterior portion of the tuberosity of the radius, a synovial bursa being interposed between the tendon and the front part of