713 FEMORAL ARTERY border of the Sartorius exposed, this muscle should bo drawn inwards, when the strong fascia which is stretched across from the Adductors to the Vastus internus will bo observed, and must be freely divided ; the sheath of the vessels is now seen, and must be opened, and the artery seciffed by passing the aneurysm needle between it and the vein, in the direction froni \vithout inwards. In this situation the femoral vein lies on tlie outer side, and the long saphenous nerve iir front of the artery. It has been seen that the femoral artery occasionally divides into two trunks below the origm of the profunda. If, in the operation for tying the femoral, two vessels be met with, the surgeon should alternately compress each, in order to ascertain which is con- nected with the aneurysmal tumour, or with the bleeding from the wound, and that one only should be tied which is the source of the pulsation or htemorrhage. If, however, it be necessary to compress both vessels before the circulation is controlled, both should be tied, as it is probable that they become reunited, as in the instances referred to above. Collateral Circulalion.—After ligature of the femoral artery, the main channels for carrying on the circulation are the anastomoses between—(1) the gluteal and sciatic branches of the internal iliac with the internal and external circumflex and superior perforating branches of the profunda femoris ; (2) the obturator branch of the internal iliac with the internal circumflex of the profunda; (3) the internal pudic of the internal iliac with the superficial and deep external pudic of the femoral ; (4) the deep circumflex ihac of the external iliac with the external circumflex of the profunda and the superflcial circumflex iliac of the femoral ; and (5) the sciatic and comes nervi ischiadici of the internal iliac ■with the perforating branches of the profimda. Branches.—The branches of the femoral artery are : Superficial epigastric. Muscular. Superficial circumflex iliac. /External circumflex. Superficial external pudic. Profunda - Internal circumflex. The superficial epigastric (a. epigastrica superficiaHs) arises from the front of the femoral artery about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, and, passing through the femoral sheath and the cribriform fascia, turns upwards in front of Poupart's ligament, and ascends between the two layers of the superficial fascia of the abdomi- nal wall nearly as far as the umbilicus. It distributes branches to the superficial inguinal glands, the superficial fascia, and the integument; it anastomoses with branches of the deep epigastric, and with its fellow of the opposite side. The superficial circumflex iliac (a. circumfiexa ilium superficialis), the smallest of the cutaneous branches, arises close to the preceding, and, piercing the fascia lata, nms outwards, parallel with Poupart's ligament, as far as the crest of the iHum ; it divides into branches which supply the integument of the groin, the superficial fascia, and the superficial inguinal lymphatic glands, anastomosing with the deep circumflex iUac, and with the gluteal and external circumflex arteries. The superficial external pudic (a. pudenda externa superficiaUs) arises from the mner side of the femoral artery, close to the preceding vessels, and, after piercing the femoral sheath and cribriform fascia, courses inwards, across the spermatic cord (or round hgament in the female), to be distributed to the integument on the lower part of the abdomen, the penis and scrotum in the male, and the labium majus in the female, anastomosing with branches of the internal pudic. The deep external pudic (a. pudenda externa profimda), more deeply seated than the preceding, passes inwards across the Pectineus and Adductor longus muscles ; it is covered by the fascia lata, which it pierces at the inner border of the thigh, and is distributed, in the male to the integument of the scrotum and perinsoum, in the female to the labium majus ; its branches anastomose Avith those of the superficial perineal artery. Muscular branches are supplied by the femoral artery to the Sartorius, Vastus internus, and Adductors. The profunda (a. profunda femoris) (fig. 620) is a large vessel arising from the outer and back part of the femoral artery, from one to two inches below Poupart's ligament. At first it lies on the outer side of the femoral artery ; it then runs behind it and the femoral vein to the inner side of the femur, and, passing downwards behind the Adductor longus, terminates at the lower third of the thigh in a small branch, which pierces the Adductor magnus, and is distributed on the back of the thigh to the Flexor muscles. The terminal part of the profunda is sometimes named the fourth per/orating artery. Deep external pudic. (Three perforating. Anastomotica magna.