PELVIS 329 Fig. 383.—Mesial sagittal section of pelvis. behind tlie symphysis pubis. In the female, the uterus and vagina occupy the interval between these viscera. .1^.1 The lowpr circumference of the pelvis is very uregular; the space enclosed bv it is named tlie outlet (apertura pelvis inferior) (fig 382) and is bounded behind by the point of the coccyx ; and lateraUy by the tuberosities of the ischia. These eminences are separated by three notches : one m front tiie pubic arch (arcus pubis), formed by the convergence of the rami of the ischium and pubis on eitlier side. The other notches, one on either side, are formed by the sacrum and coccyx behind, the ischium in front, and the ilium above : they are caUed the sacro-sciatic notches ; m the natural state they are converted into foramina by the great and small sacro-sciatic ligaments. When the ligaments are in situ, the outlet of the pelvis is lozenge-shaped bounded, in front, by the subpubic ligament and the rami of the pubes and iscbia ; laterally by the tuberosities of the ischia; and behind, by the great sacro-sciatic ligaments and the tip of the coccyx. . The diameters of the outlet of the pelvis are two, antero-posterior and transverse. The antero-posterior diameter extends from the tip of the coccyx to the lower part of the symphysis pubis ; its average measurement is three and three-quarter inches in tlie male, and five inches in the female. It varies with the length of the coccyx, and is capable of increase or diminution, on account of the mobility of that bone. The transverse diameter, measured between the posterior parts of the ischial tuber- osities, is three and a half inches in the male, and four and three-quarters in the female.* Axes (fig. 383).—A Ime at right angles to the plane of the inlet at its centre would, if prolonged, pass through the umbilicus above and the middle of the coccyx below: the axis of the inlet is therefore directed downwards and backwards. The axis of the outlet, produced upwai-ds, would touch the base of the sacrum, and is also directed downwards, and slightly backwards. The axis of the cavity—i.e. an axis at right angles to a series of planes between those of the inlet and outlet—is curved like the cavity itself: this curve corresponds to the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx, the extremities being indicated by the central points of the inlet and outlet. A knowledge of the dii'ection of these axes serves to explain the course of the foetus in its passage through the pelvis during parturition. Position of the pelvis (fig. 383).—In the erect posture, the pelvis is placed obliquely with regard to the trimk : the plane of the pelvic inlet forms an angle of from 50° to 60°, and that of the outlet one of about 15° with the horizontal plane. The pelvic surface of the symphysis pubis looks upwards and backwards, the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx downwards and forwards ; the base of the sacrum in well-formed female bodies being nearly four inches above the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and the apex of the coccyx a little more than half an inch above its lower border. In consequence of this obliquity of the pelvis, the line of gravity of the head, which passes through the middle of the odontoid process of the axis and the points of junction of the curves of the vertebral column to the sacro-vertebral angle, descends towards the front of the cavity, so that it bisects a line drawn transversely through the centres of the heads of the thigh-bones (see page 199). Differences between the male and female pelves.—The female pelvis (fig. 385) is distinguished from that of the male (fig. 384) by its bones being more delicate and its depth less. The whole pelvis is less massive, and its * i he measurements of the pelvis given above are fairly accurate, but different measure- ments arc g:iven by various authors, no doubt due in a great measure to differences in the physique and stature of the population from whom the measurements have been taken.