1105 THE TONGUE two-thirds of its upper surface, giving to it its cliaracteristic roughness. The varieties of papUlae met wnth are tlie papUlse vallataj, j)apilise fungiformes, papillae filiformes, and papillte siniplices. Tlie papillm vallatce are of large size, and \'ary from eight to twelve in number. They are situated on the dorsum of the tongue immediately in front of the foramen caecum and sulcus terminalis, forming a row on either side ; the ty\'o row s run backwards and inwards, and meet in the middle line, like the limbs of the letter V inverted. Each papilla consists of a projection of mucous membrane from v,V to iV of a-n inch wide, attached to the bottom of a circular depression of the mucous membrane ; the papilla is shajjed like a truncated cone ; the smaller end being directed dowmvards and attached to the tongue, the broader part or base projecting a little above the surface of the tongue and being studded with numerous small secondary iDapillse and covered by stratified squamous epithelium. The cup-shaped depression forms a kind of fossa round the papilla, and the mucous membrane outside the fossa forms a circular elevation, named the wall (vallum). The papillce fungiformes, more numerous than the preceding, are found chiefly at the sides and apex, but are scattered irregularly and sparingly over the dorsum. They are easily recognised, among the other papilla, by their large size, rounded eminences, and deep red colour. They are narrow at their attachment to the tongue, but broad and rounded at their free extremities, and covered with secondary papiUse. Fig. 914.—^The thi-ee kinds of papillse. (Magnified.) Wilifnrm The papillce filiformes cover the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum of the tongue. They are very minute, more or less conical or filiform in shape, and arranged in lines parallel with the two rows of the papUlis circumvallatse ; excepting at the apex of the organ, where their direction is transverse. Pro- jecting fi'om their apices are numerous filiform processes, or secondary papillae; these are of a wiiitish tint, owing to the thickness and density of the epithelium of which they are composed, and whicli lias here undergone a peculiar modifica- tion, the cells having become cornified and elongated into dense, imbricated, brush-like processes. They contain also a number of elastic fibres, which render them firmer and more elastic than the papillse of mucous membrane generally. Simple papillce, similar to those of the skin, cover the whole of the mucous membrane of the tongue, as w^ell as the larger papillae. They consist of clcsely set microscopic elevations of the corium, contaming a papillary loop, covered by a layer of epithelium. Structure of the tongue.—The tongue is partly invested by mucous membrane and a suhmucoius fibrous layer. It con.sists of symmetrical halves, separated from each other m the middle line by a fibrous septum (septum linguaj). l-^aoh half is composed of muscular fibres arranged in various directions (page 480), containing much interposed fat, and supplied by vessels and nerves. The mucous membrane differs in different parts. Tliat covering the under surface of the organ is thin, smooth, and identical in structure with that lining the rest of the 4 B