ANTERIOR VERTEBRAL REGION 487 The Longus colli is a long, flat muscle, situated on the antenor surface of the vertebral column, between the atlas and the third thoracic vertebra. It is broad in the middle, narrow and pointed at each extremity, and consists of three portions, a superior oblique, an inferior oblique, and a vertical portion. The superior oblique portion arises from the anterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae ; and, ascending obliquely inwards, is inserted by a narrow tendon into the tubercle on the anterior"arch of the atlas. The 'inferior oblique portion, the smallest part of the muscle, arises from the front'of the bodies of the first two or three tlioraeic vertebrae ; and, ascending obliquely outwards, is inserted into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrffi. The vertical portion lies directly on the front of the spine ; it arises, Fig. 496.—^The prevertebral muscles. below, from the front of the bodies of the upper three thoracic and lower three cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the front of the bodies of the second, tliird, and fourth cervical vertebrae above. Nerves.—The Rectus capitis anticus minor and the Rectus lateralis are suppUed from the loop between the first and second cervical nerves ; the Rectus capitis iuiticus major by branches from the second, third, and fourth cervical; the Longus coin by Ijranches from the second to the seventh cervical nerves. Actions.—The Rectus capitis anticus major and minor are the direct antagonists of the muscles at the back of the neck, serving to restore the head to its natural position after it has been drawn backwards. These muscles also serve to flex the head, and from their obUquity, rotate it, so as to turn the face to one or the other side. The Rectus lateralis, acting on one side, bends the head laterally. The Longus colh flexes and slightly rotates the cervical portion of the spine.