1161 APPLIED ANATOMY OF INTESTINE WTiere the processus vaginalis is occluded at the internal ring only and remains patent throughout the rest of its extent two varieties of oblique inguinal hernia may be produced, viz. infantile and encysted hernim. In the infanlile form (fig. 958, c) the bowel presses upon the peritoneum in the immediate neighbourhood of the septum and causes it to jneld and form a sac which descends behind the tunica vaginalis ; so that in front of the bowel there are thi-ee layers of peritoneum, the two layers of the tunica vaginalis and its own sac. In the encysted form (fig. 958, d) pressure at the occluded spot causes the septum to yield and form a sac which projects into the tunica vaginalis, forming thus a sac within a sac, so that in front of the bowel there are two layers of peritoneum, one from the tunica vaginalis, and one from its own sac. Where the processus vaginalis is occluded at the lower point only, i.e. just above the testis, the intestine descends into the pouch of peritoneum as far as the testis, but is pre- vented from entering the sac of the tunica vaginalis by the septum which has formed between it and the pouch. Tliis is known as hernia into Ihe funicular process; it resembles the congenital form except that instead of enveloping the testis it hes above it. In directinguinal hernia the protrusion makes its way tlu-ough some part of Hesselbach's triangle, either through (a) the outer part, where only extra-peritoneal tissue and trans- versalis fascia intervene between the peritoneum and the aponeurosis of the External oblique; or through (6) the conjoined tendon which stretches across the inner two-thii-ds of the triangle between the artery and the middle line. In the former the hernial protrusion escapes from the abdomen on the outer side of the conjoined tendon, pushes before it the peritoneum, extra-peritoneal tissue and transversalis fascia, and enters the inguinal canal. It passes along nearly the whole length of the canal and finally emerges from the external ring, receiving an investment from the intercolumnar fascia. The coverings of this form of hernia are similar to those of the obhque form, except that a portion derived from the general layer of transversalis fascia replaces the iniundibuUform fascia. In the second form, which is the more frequent, the hernia is either forced tlu-ough the fibres of the conjoined tendon, or the tendon is gradually distended in front of it so as to form a complete investment for it. The intestine then enters the lower end of the inguinal canal, escapes at the external ring, lying on the inner side of the cord, and receives additional coverings from the intercolumnar fascia, the superficial fascia and the integument. The coverings of this form therefore differ from those of the oblique form in that the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremaster, and the infimdibuliform fascia is replaced by a portion of the general layer of the transversalis fascia. The seat of stricture in both varieties of direct hernia is usually found either at the neck of the sac or at the external ring. In that form which perforates the conjoined tendon it not infrequently occm-s at the edges of the fissure through whicli the gut passes. In all cases of inguinal hernia, whether direct or obhque, it is proper to divide the stricture dii'ectly upwards ; by cutting in this direction the incision is made parallel to the deep epigastric artery—external to it in the oblique variety, internal to it in the direct form of hernia ; all chance of wounding the vessel is thus avoided. Direct inguinal hernia is of much less frequent occurrence than obhque, and is found more often in men than in women. The main differences in position between it and the oblique form are : (a) it is placed over the pubis and not in the course of the inguinal canal ; (h) the deep epigastric artery runs on the outer or iliac side of the neck of the sac ; and (c) the spermatic cord hes along its external and posterior sides, not directly behind it as in obhque inguinal hernia. Femoral hernia.—In femoral hernia the protrusion of the intestine takes place through the crural ring. As already described (page 708), this ring is closed by the septum crurale, a partition of modified extra-peritoneal tissue ; it is therefore a weak spot in the abdominal wall, and especially in the female, where the ring is larger and where profound changes are produced in the tissues of the abdomen by pregnancy. Femoral hernia is therefore more common in women than in men. When a portion of intestine is forced through the crural ring, it carries before it a pouch of peritoneum, which forms the hernial sac. It receives an investment from the extra- peritoneal tissue or septum crurale, and descends along the crural canal, or inner compart- ment of the sheath of the femoral vessels, as far as the saphenous opening ; at this point it changes its course, being prevented from extending farther down the sheath on account of the narrowing of tlie latter, and its close contact with the vessels, and also the close attachment of the superficial fascia and femoral sheath to the lower part of the circum- ference of the saphenous opening. The tumour is consequently directed forwards, pushing before it the cribriform fascia, and then curves upwards over Poupart's ligament and the lower part of the External oblique, being covered by the superficial fascia and integument. Wliile the hernia is contained in the craral canal it is usually of small size, owing to the resisting nature of the surrounding parts, but when it escapes from the saphenous opening into the loose areolar tissue of the groin it becomes considerably enlarged. The direction taken by a femoral hernia in its descent is at first downwards, then forwards and upwards ; in the application of taxis for the reduction of a femoral hernia therefore, pressure should be directed in the reverse order. The coverings of a femoral hernia from within outwards are: peritoneum, septum crurale, femoral sheath, cribriform fascia, superficial fascia, and integument. Su- Astley