ANGIOLOGY 602 third of it is situated on the right and two-thirds on the left of the mesial plane. Size.—The heart, in the adiUt, measures about five inches in length, three inches and a half in breadth at the broadest part, and two inches and a lialf in thickness. Its weight, in the male, varies from ten to twelve ounces ; in the female, from eiglit to ten : the proportions to the body-weiglit being as 1 to 169 in males ; 1 to 149 in females. The heart continues to increase in weight and size up to an advanced period of life : this increase is more marked in men than in women. Component Parts.—As has already been stated (page 597), the heart is subdivided by a septum into right and left halves, and a transverse constriction subdivides each half of the organ into two cavities, the upper cavity being called the auricle, the lower the ventricle. The heart therefore consists of Fig. 562.—Base and postero-inferior surface of heart. Vena azygos major Posterior vein of left ventricle Middle cardiac vein four chambers, viz. right and left auricles, and right and left ventricles. The course of the blood through the heart cavities and blood-vessels lias already been described (page 597). The division of the heart into four cavities is indicated on its surface by grooves. The auricles are separated from the ventricles by the auriculo- ventricular groove (sulcus coronarius). It contains the trunks of the nutrient vessels of the heart, and is deficient in front, where it is crossed by tlic root of the pulmonary artery. The interauricular groove, separating the two auricles, is scarcely marked on the posterior surface, wliile anteriorly it is hidden bj^ the pulmonaiy artery and aorta. The ventricles are separated by tA\ o grooves, the interventricular grooves, one of which (sulcus longitudinalis anterior) is situated on the antero-superior surface close to the left margin of the heart, the other (sulcus longitudinalis posterior) on the postero-iirferior surface near the right margin ; these grooves extend from the base of the ventricular portion to a point a little to the right of the apex of the heart.