3m from the seventh cervical vertebra to the sacrum. It is thicker and broader in the lumbar than in the thoracic region, and intimately blended, in both situations, with the neighbouring aponeurosis. The most superficial fibres of this ligament connect three or four vertebrae ; those more deeply seated pass between two or three vertebraj; while the deepest connect the spinous processes of neighbouring vertebrae. It is continued upwards to the external occipital protuberance and crest, as the ligamentum nuchse. The Ligamentum nuchae is a fibrous membrane, which, in the neck, represents the supraspinous ligaments of the lower vertebrae. It extends from the external occipital protuberance and crest to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra. From its anterior border a fibrous lamina is given off, which is attached to the posterior tubercle of the atlas, and the spinous processes of all the cervical vertebra3, so as to form a septum between the muscles on either side of the neck. In man it is merely the rudiment of an important elastic ligament, which, in some of the lower animals, serves to sustain the weight of the head. The Interspinous Ligaments (ligg. interspmalia) (fig. 424), thm and membranous, are mterposed between the spinous processes. These ligaments extend from the root to the apex of each spinous process, coimecting together their adjacent margins. They meet the ligamenta subflava in front and the supraspinous ligament behmd. They are narrow and elongated in the thoracic region ; broader, quadrilateral in form, and thicker in the lumbar region ; and only slightly developed in the neck. The Intertransverse Ligaments (ligg. mtertransversaria) are mterposed between the transverse processes. In the cervical region they consist of a few irregular, scattered fibres ; m the thoracic region they are rounded cords intimately connected with the deep muscles of the back ; ra the lumbar region they are thin and membranous. Movements.—The movements permitted in the vertebral column are, Flexion, Extension, Lateral movement. Circumduction, and Rotation. In Flexion, or movement forwards, the anterior common ligament is relaxed, and the intervertebral discs are compressed in front; while the posterior common Hgameut, the Hgamenta subflava, and the inter- and supra-spmous Hgaments are stretched, as well as the posterior fibres of the intervertebral discs. The interspaces between the laminae are widened, and the inferior articular processes ghde upwards, upon the superior articular processes of the subjacent vertebra. Flexion is the most extensive of all the movements of the vertebral '^^^^^Extension, or movement backwards, an exactly opposite disposition of the parts takes place. This movement is not extensive, being hmited by the anterior common Ugament, and by the approximation of the spinous processes. In Lateral Movement, the sides of the intervertebral discs are compressed, the extent of motion being hmited by the resistance offered by the surrounding hgaments. This movement may take place in any part of the column, but is freest in the neck and loins. ■ r ^r. j- Circumduction is very hmited, and is merely a succession of the preceding ™°^oSow is produced by the twisting of the intervertebral discs ; this, although only sUght between any two vertebrte, produces a considerable extent ot mo\ o- ment when it takes place in the whole length of the column, the front of the upper part of the column being turned to one or other side. This movement occurs to a shght extent in the neck, is freer in the upper part of the thoracic region, and absent in the lumbar region. j . -i i,„„„ The extent and variety of the movements are influenced by the shape and direction of the articular surfaces. . , In the cervical region the upward inchnation of the superior articular suifaces allows of free flexion and extension. Extension can be earned farther than flexion at tie upper end of the region it is checked by the locking of tlie Pos -lor^e^^^^^^^^ of the superior atlautal facets in the posterior condyloid fossae of the occipital bo e at the lower end it is hmited by a mechamsm whereby the inferior <:"^^^^^^ cesses of the seventh cervical vertebra slip into grooves behind and below the supmor articular processes of the first thoracic. Flexion is arrested '''^'^lJ^^J''''''^l convexity is straightened; the movement is checked by the apposition of the