THE SPINAL COKD 805 to the anterior median fissure, and is present only in the upper part of the cord ; gradually diminishmg in size as it descends, it terminates about the middie°of the "thoracic region. It consists of descending fibres which arise from cells in the motor area of the cerebral hemisphere of the same side, and which, as they run doA\n\\'ards in the cord, cross in succession through the white commissure to the opposite side, where they end by arborismg around the motor cells m the anterior cornu. In addition to the direct pyramidal tract there are strands of fibres m the anterior column, which connect certain ganglia in the brain with the grey matter of the spinal cord. The most important of these is the vestibulospinal tract, which occupies chiefly the marginal part of the column and is mainly derived from the cells of Deiter's nucleus, i.e. the chief terminal nucleus of the vestibular division of the eighth cranial nerve. Of the other descending fibres some pass do\vnwards from the corpora quadrigemina and others are continuous with the posterior longitudinal bundle. The remaining fibres of the anterior column constitute what is termed the anterior basis bundle (fasciculus anterior proprius). It consists of (a) longi- tudinal intersegmental fibres which arise from cells in the grey matter, more especially from those of the mesial group of the anterior horn, and, after a longer or shorter course, re-enter the grey matter ; (b) fibres from the grey matter of the opposite side, which cross m the anterior commissure ; (c) fibres arising from cells of the cerebellum and extendmg down the cord to terminate round the cells of the anterior horn—these fibres constitute an irregular tract disposed in the peripheral portions of the anterior and lateral basis bundles (descending cerebellospinal tract of LiJiventhal) ; and (rf) fibres of the anterior nerve-roots which run obliquely forwards to reach the surface of the cord. Tracts in the lateral column.—1. Descending tracts.—(a) The crossed pyramidal tract (fasciculus cortico.spinaUs dorsaUs) extends throughout the entire lengtlx of the cord, and on transverse section appears as an oval area in front of the posterior horn and on the mesial side of the direct cerebellar tract. It consists of fibres which arise from cells m the motor area of the cerebral hemisphere of the opposite side. They pass downwards in company with those of the du-ect pyramidal tract through the same side of the brain as that from which they originate, but, unlike those of the direct pyramidal tract, they cross to the opposite side in the meduUa oblongata and descend m the lateral column of the cord ; they end by arborising around the motor cells in the anterior horn.* The crossed and direct pyramidal tracts constitute the motor fasciculi of the spinal cord and have their origins in the motor cells of the cerebral cortex. They descend through the internal capsule of the cerebrum, traverse the crus cerebri and pons Varolii and enter the anterior jiyramid of the medulla oblongata. In the lower part of the medulla some t\vo-thirds of them cross the middle line and run downwards in the lateral column as the crossed pyra- midal tract, while the remaining fibres do not cross the middle Ime, but are continued into the same side of the cord, where they form tlie direct pyra- midal tract. The fibres of the latter tract, however, have been .seen to cross the middle Ime in the anterior commissure of the cord and thus the motor fibres from one side of the brain ultimately reach the opposite side of the cord. The proportion of fibres which cross in the medulla oblongata is not a constant one and thus the direct and crossed pyi-amidal tracts vary inversely in size. Sometimes tlie dnect pyi-amidal tract is absent, and in such cases it may be presumed that the decussation of the pyramidal fibres in the medulla oblongata lias been complete. The fibres of these two tracts do not acquire their medullary sheaths until after birth. In some animals the pjramidal fibres are situated in the posterior column of the cord. (b) The rubrospinal tract (tract of Monakow) lies on the ventral aspect of the crossed pyramidal tract and on transverse section appears as a somewhat * It is probable (Schafer, Py•o^^ Physiolog. Soc. 1899) that the fibres of the direct and (■rossed pyramidal tracts are not related in this direct manner with the cells of the anterior horn. 'J hey terminate by arborising round the cells at the base of the posterior horn and the colls of Clarke's column, which in turn link them to the motor cells in the anterior horn, usually of several segments of the cord. In consequence of these interposed neurons the fibres of the pyramidal tracts correspond not to individual muscles, but to associated groups of muscles.