THE VASCULAR SYSTEM 61 Fia. 79.—^Pseiidostomata of serous membranes. olono-ated endothelial cells mth serrated margins, by which the adjacent cells are dovetailed into one another. These arc supported on an clastic membrane. The m iddle coat is composed of smooth muscular and fine elastic fibres, disposed in a ■ lansverse direction. The external coat consists of connective tissue, intermixed .vith smooth muscular fibres longitudinally or obliquely disposed. It forms a in-otective covering to the other coats, and serves to connect the vessel with the neighbouring structures. The above description applies only to the larger lyniphatics ; in the smaller vessels there is no muscidar or elastic coat, and the wall consists only of a connective tissue coat, lined by endothelium. The thoracic duct has a more complex structure than the other lymphatics ; it presents a dis- tinct sub-endotheUal layer of branched corpuscles, similar to that found in the arteries, and in the middle coat is a layer of connective tissue with its fibres arranged longitudinally. The lymphatics are suppUed by nutrient vessels, which are dfstributed to their outer and middle coats ; and here also have been traced many non-medullated nerve-fibres in the form of a fine plexus of fibrils. The lyniphatics are very generally provided with valves, which assist materially in effecting the circulation of the fluid they contain. These valves are formed of thin layers of fibrous tissue, lined on both surfaces by endothelium, which presents the same arrangement upon the two surfaces as was described in connection with the valves of veins. In form they are semilunar ; they are attached by their convex edges to the sides of (he vessel, the concave edges being free and directed along the course of the contained current. Usually two such valves, of equal size, are found opposite one another ; but occasionally exceptions occur, especially at or near the anas- tomoses of lymphatic vessels. Thus, one valve may be of very rudimentary size and the other increased in proportion. The valves in the lymphatic vessels are placed at much shorter intervals than in the veins. They are most numerous near the lymphatic glands, and are found more frequently in the lymphatics of the neck and upper extremity than in those of the lower extremity. The wall of a lymphatic immediately above the point of attachment of each segment of a valve is expanded into a pouch or sinus, which gives to these vessels, when dis- tended, the knotted or beaded appearance which they present. Valves are wantmg in the vessels composing the plexiform network in which the lymphatics usually originate on the surface of the body. Origia of lymphatics.—The finest lymphatic vessels (lymphatic capillaries) form a plexiform network in the tissues and organs, and their walls consist of a single layer of endothelial plates, with more or less sinuous margins ; the vessels of the lymphatic system therefore form a series of closed tubes similar to those of the blood vascular system. The lymphatic vessels for the most part accompany the arteries or veins throughout the body; sometimes a minute artei y may be seen to be ensheathed for a certain distance l)y a lymphatic capillary vessel, which is often many times wider than a blood capillary. These are known as perivascular lymphatics. Terminations of lymphatics.—The lymphatics, including the lacteals, discharge their contents into tlie veins at two points : namely, at the angles of junction of the subclavian and internal jugular veins—on the left side by means of the thoracic duct, and on the right side by the right lymphatic duct. (See description of lymphatics.) Lymphatic glands (lijmjjh (/lands) are small oval or bean-shaped bodies, situated in the course of lymphatic and lacteal vessels so that the lymph and chyle pass 1. Endothelium from tlie under surface of the cnilntm trndiniiim of the rabbit. *J. I'jndotheliunx of the mediastinum of the dog. 3. Section throuijh tlie pleura of the same animal, a. Pseudo- stomata. b. Free orifices of short lateral passages of the lyniph-cauals. (Copied from I,uilwig. Schweigger- Seidcl and Dyhkowsky.)