NEUROLOGY 972 Fig. 806.—Cutaneous nerves of lower extremity. Front view. part, and crosses obliquely in tront of the Quadratus lumborum to the crest of the ilium. It then iDcrforates the Transversalis muscle at its posterior part, near the crest of the ilium, and divides between it and the Internal oblique into two branches, iliac and hypo- gastric. The iliac branch (ramus cutaneus lateralis) pierces the Internal and External oblique muscles immediately above the crest of the ilium, and is distributed to the integument of the gluteal region, behind the lateral cutaneous branch of the last thoracic nerve (fig. 811). The size of the nerve bears an inverse proportion to that of the lateral cutaneous branch of the last thoracic nerve. The hypogastric branch (ramus cutaneus anterior) (fig. 806) continues onwards between the Internal oblique and Trans- versalis muscles. It then pierces the Internal oblique, and becomes cutaneous by perforating the aponeurosis of the External oblique, about an inch above, and a little to the outer side of the ex- ternal abdominal ring, and is distributed to the integument of the hypogastric region. " The ilio-hypogastric nerve communi- cates with the last thoracic and ilio- inguinal nerves. . The ilio-inguinal (n. iliomgumalis), smaller than the preceding, arises with it from the first lumbar nerve. It emerges from the outer border of the Psoas just below the ilio-hypogastric, and, passing obliquely across the Quadi-atus lumborum and Iliacus muscles, perforates the Trans- versalis, near the fore part of the crest of the ilium, and communicates with the ilio- hypogastric nerve between that muscle and the Internal oblique. The nerve then pierces the Internal oblique, distributing filaments to it, and, accompanymg the spermatic cord through the external ab- dominal ring, is distributed to the in- tegument of the upper and inner part ot the thigh, to the skin over the root ot the penis and upper part of tlie scrotum in the male, and to the skin covering the mons Veneris and labium majus in the female. The size of this nerve is in inverse pro- portion to that of the iUo-hypogastric. Occasionally it is very small, and ends by ioining the ■ilio-hypogastric ; m such cases, a branch from the ilio-hypogastric tal^es the place of the ilio-inguinal, or the latter nerve may be altogether absent. The g-enito-crural (n. genitofemoralis) arises fiom tlie first and second lumbar nerves It passes obliquely through the substance of the Psoas, and emerges from its inner border, close to the vertebral ^^^J-^^^^^^PP^eny ^ between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae ; it then descenas External saphenous Anterior tibial