694 ANGIOLOGY iliac colon, and the pelvic colon ; anastomosing above witli the left colic, and below with the superior htemorrhoidal artery. The superior hsemorrhoidal (a. hremorrhoidalis superior), the continuation of the inferior mesenteric, descends into the pelvis between the layers of the mesen- tery of the pelvic colon, crossing, in its course, the ureter and left common iliac vessels. It divides, opposite the third sacral vertebra, into two branches, which descend one on either side of the rectum, and about four or five inches from the anus break up into several small branches. These pierce the muscular coat of the l^owel and run downwards, as straight vessels, placed at regular intervals from each other in the wall of the gut between its muscular and mucous coats, to the level of the internal sphincter ; here they form a series of loops around the lower end of the rectum, and communicate wth the middle hsemorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac, and with the inferior hsemorrhoidal branches of the internal pudic. Avplied .4watowi?/.—Embolism of the mesenteric arteries produces acute and severe svmptoms of which the chief are abdominal pain and tenderness, nausea and vomitmg, (^arrhcBa or constipation, and intestinal obstruction; blood is found in the stools of nearly half the patients. SUPKAKENAL AbTEBIBS (fig. 602) The suprarenal arteries (aa. suprarenales) are two small vessels which arise, one from either side of the aorta, opposite the superior mesenteric artery. They pass obliquely upwards and outwards, over the crura of the Diaphragm, to the under surface of the suprarenal glands, to which they are distributed . anastomosing with suprarenal branches of the mferior phrenic and renal arteries. In the adult these arteries are of smaU size ; m the foetus they are as large as the renal arteries. Renal Arteries (fig. 602) The renal arteries (aa. renales) are two large trunks, which arise from the sides of the aorta, immediately below the superior mesenteric artery. Each is directed outwards across the crus of the Diapliragm, so as o form nearly a right angle with the aorta. The right is longer than the left on account of the position of the aorta ; it passes behmd the mferior vena cava The left is somewhat higher than the right. Before reaching the hdus of the kiSiey eLHrtery divides into four or five branches ; the greater number of these lie between the renal vein and ureter, the vein bemg m front, the IttTehtd'hut one branch is usually situated bf ^ the ureter^^^^^^^^ aives off some smaU branches to the suprarenal gland, the ^retei and the surrounding cellular tissue and muscles. One or two accessory renal artei le a e freJuentlv found, more especiaUv on the left side : they usually arise from the Sa and may come off above or below the main artery, the former being the more 'commo?^position. Instead of entering the kidney at the hilus, they usually pierce the upper or lower part of the gland. Spermatic and Ovarian Arteries The soermatic arteries (aa. spermaticse interna) (fig. 602) are distributed to the testes TherSe two slender vessels of considerabb length and arise It crosses obliquely over the ureter and the lower par o the ^^^ernal ihac a^^^^^^ anastomosing with the artery of the vas deferc , other f « the inguinal canal gives one or two twigs to the Ciemaster.