SPLANCHNOLOGY 1220 Epobphoron and paroophoron (figs. 1010, 1011).—Lying in the broad ligament, botwoon tlio ovary and the Fallopian tube, is the epoophoron or 'parovarium, also called the orgaii of Rosenmilller. This consists of a few closed convoluted tubes, lined with epithelium, which converge towards the ovary at one end and at tlie other are united by a longitudinal tube, the duel of Gartner. In the human fenrale this duct terminates in a bulbous enlargement ; in the cow it attains a greater development and opens into the vagina. The paroophoron consists of a few scattered rudimentary tubules, best seen in the child, situ- ated in the broad ligament between the parovarium and the uterus. The epoophoron and paroophoron are remnants of the Wolffian body or meso- nephros, and the duct of Giirtner is a persistent portion of the Wolffian duct. In the foetus, the ovaries are situated, hke the testes, in the lumbar region, near the kidneys. They ma}'- be distinguished from those bodies at an early period by their elongated and flattened form, and by their position, which is at first oblique and then nearly transverse. They gradually descend into the pelvis. structure (fig. 1012).—The siu-face of the ovary is covered Ijy a layer of columnar cells which constitute the germinal epithelium of Waldeyer. This epithelium gives to the ovary a dull grey colour as compared with the shining smoothness of the peritoneum ; and the transition between the pavement epithelium of the peritoneum and the columnar cells which cover the ovary is usually marked by a line around the anterior border of the ovarj'. The ovary consists of a number of Graafian follicles imbedded in the meshes of a stroma or framework. The stroma is a loecuhar soft tissue, abundantly supphed with blood-vessels, consisting for the most part of spindle-shaped cells with a small amount of ordinary connective tissue. These cells have been re- FiG. 1012.—Section of the ovary. (After Schron.) garded by some anatomists as un- striped muscle-cells, which, indeed, they most resemble ; by others as connective-tissue cells. On the siu-- face of the organ this tissue is much condensed, and forms a layer (tunica albuginea) composed of short con- nective-tissue fibres, with fusiform cells between them. Graafian follicles.—Upon making a section of an ovary, numerous round transparent vesicles of various sizes are to be seen ; they are the Graafian follicles, or ovisacs con- taining the ova. Immediately beneath the superficial covering is a layer of stroma, in which are a large number of minute vesicles, of uniform size, about j-irr of an inch in diameter. These are the follicles in their earliest condition, and the layer where the.y are found has been termed the cortical layer. They are • especialh' numerous in the ovary of the young child. After puberty, and during the whole of the child-bearing ]ieriod. large and mature, or almost matui-e. Graafian follicles are also found in the cortical layer in small numbers, and also ' corpora lutea,' the remains of follicles which have bm-st and are undergoing atrophy and absorption. Beneath this superficial stratum, other large and more mature follicles are found imbedded in the ovarian stroma. Tliese increase in size as they recede from the surface towards a highly vascular stroma in the centre of the organ, termed the medullary substance {zona vasculosa, Waldeyer). This stroma forms the tissue of the hilus by which the ovary is attached, and through which the blood-vessels enter : it does not contain any Graafian follicles. The larger Graafian follicles consist of an external fibro-vascular coat, connected with the surrounding stroma of the ovary by a network of blood-vessels ; and an internal coat, named the ovirnpsvle, which is lined by a layer of nucleated cells, called the memhrana grnmilosa. In that i)art of the mature Graafian follicle which is nearest the surface of the ovary, the cells of the memhrana granulosa are connected into a mass which ]irojects into the cavity of the follicle. This is termed the discus proligerua, and in it the ovum is imbedded.* Tlie follicle contains a transparent albuminous fiuid. 1. Outer covering. 1'. Attaolicd border. 2. Central stroma. 3. Peripheral stroma. d. Blood-vessels. 5. Graafian follicles in their earliest stage. 6, 7, 8. More advanced follicles. 9. An almost mature follicle. D'. Volliclc from which the ovum has escaped. 10. Corpus luteum. * For a description of the ovum, see page 78.