THE PITUITARY BODY 851 The tuber cinereum is a hollow eminence of grey matter situated between the corpora mamillaria behind, and the optic commissure in front. Laterally it is continuous with the grey matter of the anterior perforated spaces and anteriorly with a thin lamina, tlie lamina terminalis. From the under surface of the tuber cinereum a hollow conical process, the infundihulum, projects downwards and forwards and is attached to the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. In the lateral part of the tuber cinereum is a nucleus of nerve-cells, the basal optic nucleus of Meynert, while close to the cavity of the third ventricle are three additional nuclei. Between the tuber cinereum and the corpora mamillaria a small elevation, with a corresponding depression in the third ventricle, is sometimes seen. Retzius has named it the eminentia saccularis, and Fig. 722.—^The pituitary body, in position. Shown in sagittal section. (Testut.) G regards it as the representative of the saccus vasculosus found in this situation in some of the lower vertebrates. 1.1'. Aiitciiur and posterior lobes of pituitary bodj-. 2. Inlimdi- bulum. 3. Optic commissure. I. Lamiim terminalis. 5. Optic recess. 6. Anterior commissure. 7, 7'. Circular sinus. 8. Anterior cerebral artery. 9. Basilar artery. 10. Posterior cerebral artery. 11. Corpus albicans. 12. Crus cerebri. 13. Tons Varolii. The 'pituitary body (hypo- physis) (fig. 722) is a reddish- grey, somewhat oval mass, measuring about half an inch in its transverse, and about one-third of an inch in its antero-posterior diameter. It is attached to the extremity of the infundibulum, and is situated in the pituitary fossa of the sphenoid bone, where it is retained by a circular fold of dura mater, the diaphragrna sellce. This fold almost com- pletely roofs in the pituitary fossa, leaving only a small central aperture through which the infundibulum passes. The pituitary body consists of an anterior and a posterior lobe, which differ froni one another in their mode of development and in their structure. The anterior lobe is the larger, and is someM-hat kidney-shaped, the concavity being directed backwards and embracing the posterior lobe. It is developed from a diverticulum of the ectoderm of the primitive buccal cavity or stoma- todseum (see page 155). It is highly vascular, and consists essentially of epithelial cells aiTanged in cord-like trabeculaj or alveoli, the latter sometimes containing a colloid material similar to that found in the alveoli of the thyi-oid body. The posterior lobe is developed as a downgrowtli from the floor of the embryonic brain, and during early fa?tal life contains a cavity continuous with that of the third ventricle. This cavity undergoes obliteration and, in the adult, the lobe consists of a reticulum of connective tissue with branched cells, some of which contain pigment. In nian this lobe contains no nervous elements, but in certain of the lower vertebrates (e.g. fishes) nervous structures are present, and the lobe is of large size. „4 ,- , . --- - The optic commissure consists of a flattened, somc- «nat quadrilateral band of fibres, which is situated at the junction of the floor ana anterior wall of the third ventricle. Most of its fibres have their origin in ne retina, and reach it through the optic nerves, which are continuous with its (fipfi ^^S^^^- tlie commissure, they undergo a partial decussation dp V ' ^^^^ which come from the nasal or inner half of tlic retina ecussate and enter the optic tract of the opposite side,while the fibres from the raporal or outer half of the retina do not undergo decussation, but pass back 3 I 2 Pig. 723.—Course of the fibres in the optic com- missure. Uncrossed fibres Crossed fibres CommUsure of Gudden Optic commissure.