1032 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE Lachrymal Appaeatus (fig. 851) The lachrymal apparatus (apparatus lacrimalis) consists of the lachrymal gland which secretes the tears, and its excretory ducts which convey the fluid to the surface of the eye ; the fluid is cariied away by the lachrymal canals into the lachrymal sac, and along the nasal duct into the cavity of the nose. The lachrymal gland is lodged in the lachrymal fossa, on the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is of an oval form, about the size and shape of an almond, and consists of an upper and a lower portion. The upper portion {glandula lacrimalis suj^erior) is connected to the periosteum of the orbit by a few fibrous Fig. 851,—The lachrymal apparatus. Right side. bands, and rests upon the Superior and External recti, which separate it from the globe of the eye. The lower part [glandula lacrimalis inferior) Ls separated from the upper by a fibrous septum, and projects into the back part of the upper eyelid, where its deep surface is related to the conjunctiva. The ducts of the gland, from six to twelve in number, run obliquely beneath the mucous membrane for a short distance, and, separating from each other, open by a series of minute orifices on the upper and outer half of the conjunctiva, near the superior fornix. These orifices are arranged in a row, so as to disperse the secretion over the surface of the membrane. Structure of the laclirymal gland (fig. 852).—In structure and general appearance the lachrymal resembles the serous salivary glands (page 1112). In the recent state the cells are so crowded with granules that their limits can hardly be defined. They contain oval nuclei, and the cell protoplasm is finely fibrillated. The lachrymal canals (ductus lacrimales) commence at the minute orifices, puncta lacrimalia, on the summit of small conical elevations, the papillce lacrimales, seen on the margins of the lids, at the outer extremity of the lacus lacrimalis. The superior canal, the smaller and shorter of the two, at first ascends, and then bends at an acute angle, and passes inwards and downwards to the lachrymal sac. The inferior canal at first descends, and then passes almost horizontally inwards to the lachrymal sac. They are dense and elastic in structure and are dilated into ampullae at their angles. The mucous membrane is covered with stratified scaly epithelium, placed on a basement membrane. Outside the latter is a layer of striped muscle, continuous with the Tensor tarsi; at the bases of the lachrymal papilla) the fibres of this layer are circularly arranged and form a kind of sphincter. The lachrymal sac (saccus lacrimalis) is the upper dilated extremity ot tiie nasal duct, and is lodged in a deep groove formed by the lachrymal bone and frontal process of tlie maxilla. It is oval in form, its u])per extrauily being closed in and rounded, while below, it is continued mto tlie nasal duct. It is covered by a fibrous expansion derived from the tendo oculi, and on its deep surface it is crossed by the Tensor tarsi muscle (Horner s muscle, page 40u;. which is attached to the ridge on the lachrymal bone. Pig. 852.- -Alveoli of lachrymal gland.