THE EAR 1043 tubaj. The latter arises from the hook of the cartilage and from, the membranous part of the tube, and blends below with the Tensor palati. The membrana tympani (fig. 859) separates the cavity of the tympanum from the bottom of the external meatus. It is a thin, semi-transparent mem- brane, nearly oval in form, somewhat broader above than below, and directed very obliquely do^^'nwards and inwards so as to form an angle of about fifty-five degrees with the floor of the meatus. Its longest diameter is directed from above and behind, downwards and fortt'ards, ^nd measures fi-om nine to ten millimetres ; its shortest diameter measures from eight to nine millimetres. The greater part of its circumference is tliickened to form an annular ring wliich is fixed in a groove, the sulcus tympanicus, at the inner extremity of the meatus. Tliis sulcus is deficient superiorly at the incisure or notch of Ri vinus. From the extremities of tliis notch two bands, the ctjiterior and posterior inalleolar folds, are prolonged to the short process of the malleus. The smaU, somewhat triangular part of the membrane situated above these folds is lax and tliin, and is named the pars flaccida of ShrapneU ; in it a small orifice is sometimes seen. The handle of the malleus is fii-mly attached to the inner aspect of the membrane as far as its centre, which it draws inwards towards the cavity of the tympanum. The outer surface of the membrane is thus concave, and the most depressed part of this concavity is named the umbo (umbo membranse tympani). Structure.—The membrana tympani is composed of three layers^ an external (cuticular), a middle (fibrous), and an internal (mucous). The cuticular layer (stratum cutaneum) is derived from the integument lining the meatus. The fibrous layer consists of two strata, an external (stratum radiatum) of radial fibres, which diverge from the handle of the malleus, and an internal (stratum circulare) of circular fibres, which are plentiful aroimd the cncumference but sparse and scattered near the centre of the membrane. Branched or dendritic fibres, as pointed out by Griiber, are also present, especially in the posterior half of the membrane. ' Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the membrana tjonpani are derived from the deep auricular branch of the internal maxillary, which ramifies beneath the cuticular layer: and from the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular, and tympanic branch of the mternal maxillary, which are distributed on the mucous surface. The superficial vems open into the external jugular ; those on the mucous surface di-ain partly into the lateral sinus and veins of the dura mater, and partly into a plexus on the Eustachian tube. The membrane receives its nerve supply from the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary, the auricular branch of the vagus, and the tympanic branch of the glosso- pharyngeal. Ossicles of the Tympanum (Ossicula auditus) The tympanic cavity contains a chaha of three movable bones the rmlUus, %ncus, and stapes. The first is attached to the membrana tympani the last to the cu-cumference of the fenestra ovalis, the incus hamc placed ^^r^TVA comiected to both by deUcate articulations. Ihe Malleus (fig. 860), so named from its fancied resemblance to a hammer consists of a head, neck, and three processes, viz. the handle or manubrium' the ^processus gracdis, and the processus brevis. The head (capitidum maUei) is the large upper extremity of the bone • it IS oval in shape, and articulates posteriorly Avith the incus,'being free in'the rest of Its extent. The facet for articulation witli the incus is constricted near the middle, and consists of an upper larger, and lower lesser part, which form nearly a right angle with each other. Opposite the constriction the lower Elalleus Pi-ojects in the form of a process, the cog-tooth or spur of ^T^}'"'^ contracted part just beneath the Head. ; belovv it is a prommence, to M'hich the various processes are attached. ihe handle (manubrium mallei) is connected by its outer margin vnih the membrana tympam. It is directed downwards, imvards, and backwards ; ? decreases in size towards its free extremity, whicli is cur;ed slightly forwa -ds and flattened from withm outwards. On the inner side, near its upper end 'TK.r^'''""' ^7*° l^'"" '''' ^^'^^^^^ Tenso; tvmp^ni Sseiied: ihe processus gracilis (processus anterior [Foliij) is a deUcate process, 3x2