NEUROLOGY 1000 Pelvic Plexuses (fig. 816) The pelvic plexuses supply the viscera of the pelvic cavity, and are situated at the sides of tlie rectum in the male, and at the sides of the rectum and vagina in the female. They arc formed on either side by a continuation of the hypogastric plexus, by the visceral branches from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves, and by a few filaments from the first two sacral gangha. At the points of junction of these nerves small ganglia are found. From these plexuses numerous branches are distributed to the viscera of the pelvis. They accompany the branches of the internal iliac artery. The middle haemorrhoidal plexus (plexus hsemorrhoidalis medius) arises from the upper part of the pelvic plexus. It supphes the rectum, and joins with branches of the superior hfemorrhoidal plexus. The vesical plexus (plexus vesicalis) arises from the fore-part of the pelvic plexus. The nerves composing it are numerous, and contain a large jiro- portion of spinal nerve-fibres. They accompany the vesical arteries, and are distributed to the side and base of the bladder. Numerous filaments also pass to the vesicula seminalis and vas deferens ; those accomjianying the vas deferens join, on the spermatic cord, with branches from the spermatic plexus. The prostatic plexus (plexus prostaticus) is continued from the lower part of the pelvic plexus. The nerves composing it are of large size. They are distributed to the prostate gland, vesiculse seminales, and erectile structure of the penis. The nerves supplying the erectile structure of the penis consist of two sets, the small and large cavernous nerves, which arise from the fore- part of the prostatic plexus, and, after joining Avith branches from the internal pudic nerve, pass forwards beneath the pubic arch. The small cavernous nerves (nn. cavernosi penis minores) perforate the fibrous covering of the penis, near its root. The large cavernous nerve (n. cavernosus penis major) passes fom^ards along the dorsum of the penis, joins with the dorsal nerve of the penis, and is distributed to the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum. The vaginal plexus (plexus vagmalis) arises from the lower part of the pelvic plexus. It is distributed to the walls of the vagina, to the erectile tissue of the vestibule, and to the clitoris. The nerves composing this plexus contain, like the vesical, a large proportion of spinal nerve-fibres. The uterine plexus (plexus uterinus) accompanies the uterine artery to the side of the uterus, between the layers of the broad hgament; it communicates with the ovarian plexus. Applied Anatomy.—hittle is known as to the connection between the numerous micro- scopical alterations (pigmentation, atrophy, haemorrhage, fibrosis) that have been described in the sympathetic nervous system, and the functional changes that ensue therefrom. Grosser lesions due to stabs, bullet-wounds, or the pressure of new growths, may cause either irritative or paralytic symptoms. In paralysis of the cervical sympathetic on one side, the pupil is small and does not dilate when shaded or on the instillation of cocaine, although it contracts still further when brightly illuminated ; it also loses the cilio-spmal reflex, failing to dilate when the skm of the neck is pinched. The palpebral fissure narrows from paralysis of the involuntary muscle of the eyelid, and the eyeball sinks backwards into the orbit—enophthalmus—either from paralysis of Muller's orbital muscle winch closes the spheno-maxillary fissure, or from wasting of the intra-orbital fat. The super- ficial vessels of the face and scalp are at first dilated, but later they contract. Anidrosis or absence of sweatmg, is often noted on the affected side. Irntalwn of the cerAncal sympathetic produces signs mainly the converse of those d&scnbed above ^\e have no definite knowledge of the signs and symptoms that follow lesions of the thoracic or abdominal sympathetic systems. It is likely, however, that a number of nervous disorders characterised by persistent vascular disturbancas, such as dilatation of the vessels witii throbbing, flushing, sweating, and localised oedema, or contraction of the vessels wiiii pallor, chilliness, pain, and malnutrition of the affected parts, arc due to implication of the sympathetic nervous system. It is possible, too, that the rare condition of progressive facial hemiatrophy, coming on between the ages of ten and twenty, and producing marked unilateral'shrinkage of all the tissues of the face, is piimanly an affection of tlie sympathetic.