HUMAN ANATOMY INTRODUCTION THE term human anatomy comprises a consideration of the various struc- tures which make up the human organism. In a restricted sense it deals merely with the parts which form the fully developed individual and which can be rendered evident to the naked eye by various methods of dissec- tion. Regarded from such a standpoint it may be studied by two methods: (1) the various structures may be separately considered—systematic anatomy; or (2) the organs and tissues may be studied in relation to one another— topograpJdcal or regional anatomy. It is, however, of much advantage to add to the facts ascertained by naked- eye dissection those obtained by the use of the microscope. This introduces two fields of investigation, viz. the study of the minute structure of the various component parts of the hody—histology ; and the study of the human organism in its immature condition, i.e. the various stages of its intra-uterine develop- ment from the fertilised ovum up to the period when it assumes an independent existence—embryology. Owing to the difficulty of obtaining material illus- trating aU the stages of this early development, gaps must be filled up by observations on tlie development of lower iovms—comparative embryology, or by a consideration of adult forms in the line of human a.ncestvy—comparative anatomy. Finally, the direct application of the facts of human anatomy to the various pathological conditions M'hich may occur constitutes the subject of applied anatomy. . Systematic anatomy.—The various systems of which the human body is composed are grouped under the following headings : 1. Osteology—the bony system or skeleton. 2. Syndesmology—the articulations or joints. 3. Myology—the muscles. With the description of the muscles it is convenient to include that of the fasciae which are so intimately connected with them. 4. Angiology—the vascular system, comprising the heart, blood-vessels, lymphatic vessels and lymphatic glands. 5. Neurology—the nervous system. The organs of sense may be included in this system. 6. Splanchnology—the visceral system. Topographically the viscera form two groups, viz. the thoracic viscera and the abdomino-pelvic viscera. The heart, a thoracic viscus, is best considered wdth the vascular system. The rest of the viscera may be grouped according to their functions : (a) the respiratory system ; (6) the alimentary system; and (c) the genito-urinary system. Strictly speaking, the third sub-group should include only such components of the genito-urinary system as are included \\ithin the abdomino-pelvic