575 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE THIGH aponeurosis) covering its outer surface. The fibres converge to a strong flattened tendon, winch is inserted into the oblique ridge wliich runs down- wards and forwards on the outer surface of the great trochanter. A synovial bursa separates the tendon of the muscle from the surface of the trqchanter in front of its insertion. The Gluteus minimus, the smallest of the three Glutei, is placed immediately beneath the preceding. It is fan-shaped, arising from the outer surface of the ilium, between the middle and inferior curved lines, and beliind, from the margin of the great sacro-sciatic notch. The fibres converge to the deep surface of a radiated aponeurosis, which, terminating in a tendon, is inserted into an impression on the anterior border of the great trochanter, and gives an expansion to the capsule of the hip-joint. A synovial bursa is interposed between the tendon and the great trochanter. Between the Gluteus medius and Gluteus minimus are the deep branches of the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve. The deep surface of the Gluteus minimus is in relation Avitli the reflected tendon of the Rectus femoris and the capsular ligament of tlie liip-joint. The Pyriformis is a flat muscle, pyi-amidal in shape, lying almost parallel with the posterior margin of the Gluteus medius. It is situated partly witlain the pelvis against its posterior Avail, and partly at the back of the liip-joint. It arises from the front of the sacrum by three fleshy digitations, attached to the portions of bone between the first, second, third, and fourth anterior sacral foramina, and also to the grooves leading from the foramina : a few fibres also arise from the margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and from the anterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The muscle passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, the upper part of which it fills, and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the u^jper border of the great trochanter, behind, but often partly blended with, the tendon of the Obturator internus and Gemelli. Relations.—Within the pelvis the Pyriformis is in relation by its anterior surface with the rectum (especially on the left side), the sacral plexus of nerves, and the branches of the internal iliac vessels, and by its posterior stirface with the sacrum. External to the pelvis, its anterior surface is in contact with the posterior surface of the ischium and capsular ligament of the hip-joint ; and its posterior sxirface, with the Gluteus maximus ; its upper border is in relation with the Gluteus medius, and the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve; its lower border, with the Gemellus superior and Coccygeus, the sciatic vessels and nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerve, and muscular branches from the sacral plexus, passing from the pelvis in the interval between the two muscles. The muscle is frequently pierced by the external popliteal nerve. The obturator membrane (fig. 444) is a tliin layer of interlacing fibres, which almost completely closes the obturator foramen. It is attached, externally, to the margin of the foramen ; internally, to the posterior surface of the ischio-pubic ramus, below and internal to the margin of the foramen. At its upper and outer part it is deficient, leaving a srnall canal, which is bounded below by a thickened band of fibres, and gives passage to the obturator vessels and nerve (see page 326), Both Obturator muscles are connected with tliis membrane. Tlie Obturator internus, like the preceding muscle, is situated partly within the cavity of the pelvis, and partly at the back of the hip-joint. It arises from the inner surface of the antero-lateral wall of the pelvis, where it surrounds the greater part of the obturator foramen, being attached to thd descending ramus of the pubis and the ramus of the ischium, and at the side to the inner surface of the innominate bone below and beliind the pelvic brim, reaching from the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen above and behind to the obturator foramen below and in front. It also arises from the inner surface of the obturator membrane except at its posterior part, from the tendinous arch which completes the canal for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve, and to a slight extent from the obtm-ator layer of the pelvic fascia, which covers it. Tlie fibres converge rapidly towards the small sacro-sciatic foramen, and terminate in four or five tendinous bands, which are found on the deep surface of the muscle ; these bands are reflected at a right angle over the grooved surface of the ischium between its spine