MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE UROGENITAL REGION 527 to the central tendinous point of the perinseum, where it blends with the External sphincter ani. Its fibres pass forwards on either side of the vagina, to be inserted into the corpora cavernosa of tlie clitoris, a fasciculus crossing over the body of the organ so as to comi^ress the dorsal vein. Nerve-supply.—It is supphed by the perineal branch of the internal pudic. Actions.—The Sphincter vaginas diminishes the orifice of the vagina. The anterior fibres contribute to the erection of the clitoris, as they are inserted into and are continuous with the fascia of the clitoris, compressuig the dorsal vein during the contraction of the muscle. Tlie Erector clitoridis (m. ischiocavernosus) corresponds with the Erector penis in tlie male, but is smaller. It covers the unattached surface of the ( Tus clitoridis. It is an elongated muscle, broader at the middle than at I'ither extremity, and situated on tlie side of the lateral boundary of the perina5um. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the inner surface Fig. 516.—^Muscles of the female perinsemu. (Modified from a drawing by Peter Thompson.) Clitoris Spliincter ani externus of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the crus clitoridis ; from the surface of the crus ; and from the adjacent portion of the ramus of the ischium. From these points fleshy fibres succeed, and end in an aponeurosis, Avhich is inserted mto the sides and under surface of the crus clitoridis. Nerve-supply.—The perineal branch of the internal pudic supphes this muscle. Actions.—The Erector clitoridis compresses the crus cHtoridis and retards the return of blood through the veins, and thus serves to maintain the organ erect. The triangular ligament in the female is not so strong as in the male. It is attached to the pubic arch, its apex being connected with the subpubic ligament. It is divided in the middle line by the aperture of the vagina, witli the external coat of which it becomes blended, and in front of this is per- forated by tlie urethra. Its posterior border is continuous, as in the male, M^ith the deep layer of the superficial fascia around the Transversus perinsei muscle. Like the triangular ligament in the male, it consists of two layers, between which are to be found the following structures : the dorsal vein of the clitoris.