87 THE EMBRYONIC AREA streak a third layer of cells, the mesoderm or mesoblast, extends outwards between the ectoderm and entoderm. Although the mesoderm is mainly derived from the priniitive streak, possibly the entoderm a so contributes to It. The extension of the mesoderm takes place thronghont the whole of the embryonic and extra-embryonic areas of the ovum, except in certain regions. One of these is seen immediately in front of the neural tube. Here the mesoderm extends forwards in the form of two crescentic masses, which curve inwards and meet in Fig. 105.—Embryo of a rabbit. (After Kolliker.) Fig. 106.—Embryonic area of the ovum of rabbit at the seventh day. (From Kolliker.) ory. Embryonic area. streak. pr. Primitive the middle line so as to enclose behind them an area which is devoid of mesoderm and is named the bucco-pharyngeal area, since it afterwards forms the septum betweeir the primitive mouth and primi- tive pharynx. In front of the bucco-pharyngeal area, where the lateral crescents of mesoderm have fused in the middle Une, the peri- cardium is afterwards developed, and this region is therefore designated the pericardial area. A second region where the mesoderm is absent, at least jfor a time, is that immediately in front of the pericardial area. This is termed the pro-amniolic area, and is the region where the pro-amnion is developed; in man however, a pro-amnion is apparently never formed. Other regions are : a band on the ventral aspect of the neural tube in the site of the future vertebral column, and an area at the hinder end of the embryo in the position of the cloaca. ay. Embryooio area, o, o. Region of the blastodermic vesicle immediately surrounding the embryonic Tarea. pr. Primitive streak, ri. Neural groove between the nem-al folds. Fig. 107.—Section across primitive streak (semi-diagrammatic). Primitive streak The blastoderm now consists of three layers, named from without inwards, ectoderm, mesoderm and entoderm. Each has distinctive characteristics and gives rise to certain tissues of the body. The ectoderm consists of columnar cells, which are, however, somewhat flattened or cubical towards the margin of the embryonic area. It forms the whole of the nervous system, the epidermis of the sl<in, the lining cells of the sebaceous, sweat and mammary glands, the hairs and nails, the epitheUum of the nose and adjacent air-sinuses, and that of the cheeks and roof of the mouth. From it also