DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN 121 either side, in the postero-lateral part of the lamina and become continuous with a third fissure, the post-nodular, which is developed across the central part of the lamina. By this means a narrow area is mapped off; the central part of this area becomes the nodule, its lateral extremities the flocculi, and the intermediate portions the inferior medullary velum. Three additional furrows are soon developed. One, the fissura prima of Elliot-Smith, appears as a transverse groove on the anterior part of the upper surface and extends into the hemispheres ; it indicates the preclival fissure of the adult cerebellum. The portion of the cerebellum m front of it is differentiated into the Ungula, the lobus centralis, and the lobus culniiuis. The other two furrows mark off the future pyramid and are named the supra-pyramidal and pre-pyramidal fissures. The supra-pyramidal is the fissura secunda of ElUot-Smith, and forms the post-pyramidal fissure of the adult cerebellum. During the fourth and fifth months the following fissures appear in the lateral hemispheres: (1) the post-lunate, between the posterior crescentic and postero-superior lobes; the union of the two post-lunate fissures across the middle line forms the post- clival fissure which constitutes Fig. 154.—Exterior of brain of human embryo of the posterior boundary of the lobus cHvi ; (2) the' pa/ra- pyramidal, which blends with the post-pyramidal and separates the lobus tuberis from the lobus pyramidis; (3) the post-tonsillar, between the biventral lobe and the amygdala or tonsil; this becomes continuous with the pre- pyramidal, and with it forms the posterior Umitof the lobus uvulae; (4) the great horizontal fissure; although an important land- mark in the adult cerebellum, this fissure does riot appear until about the end of the fifth month, and from a developmental point of view is therefore of secondary interest. Some observers main- tain that the folium cacuminis, which connects the postero- superior lobes across the middle fine, is not developed until after birth, while others assert that it is present at the sixth month of foetal life. On the ventri- cular surface of the cerebellar lamina a transverse furrow, the incisura fastigii, appears, and deepens to form the tent-like recess of the roof of the fourth ventricle. The rudiment of the cerebellum at first projects in a dorsal direction ; but, by the baclcward growth of the cerebrum, it is folded downwards and sornewhat flattened, and the thin roof-plate of the fourth ventricle, originally continuous with the posterior border of the cerebellum, is projected inwards towards the cavity of the ventricle. The mid-brain or mesencephalon.—The mid-brain (figs. 154 to 157) exists for a time as a thin-walled cavity of some size, and is separated from the istlimus rhombencephali behind, and from the fore-brain in front, by slight constrictions. Its cavity becomes relatively reduced in diameter, and forms the Sylvian aqueduct of the adult brain. Its basal laminae increase in thickness to form the crura cerebri, which are at first of small size, but rapidly enlarge after the fourth month. The neuroblasts of these laminaj are grouped in relation to the sides and floor of the Sylvian aqueduct, and constitute the nuclei of the third and fourth nerves, and of the descending root of the fifth nerve. By a similar thickening process its alar laminai are developed into the four and a half weeks. (From model by His.)