THE LARGE INTESTINE 1149 The cjecum (intestinum ca3cum), the commencement of the large intesthae, is the large blind pouch situated below the ileo-csecal valve (fig. 951). Its blind end is directed downwards, and its open end upwards, communicating directly with the colon, of which this blind pouch appears to be the beginning or head, and hence the old name of cafut ccecum coli was applied to it. Its size is variously estimated by different authors, but on an average it may be said to be two and a half inches in length and three in breadth. It is situated in the right iliac fossa, above the outer half of Poupart's ligament : it rests on the Ilio-psoas muscle and lies immediately behind the anterior abdominal wall. As a rule, it is entirely enveloped by peritoneum, but in a certain number of cases (5 per cent;, Berry) the peritoneal covering is not complete, so that the upper part of the posterior surface is uncovered and connected to the iliac fascia by connective tissue. The caecum lies quite free in the abdominal cavity and enjoys a considerable amount of movement, so that it may become herniated down the right inguinal canal, and has occasionally been found in an inguinal hernia on the left side. The caecum varies in shape, but, according to Treves, in man it may be classified under one of four types. In early Fig. 951.—The cfecum and appendix, with their arteries. foetal life it is short, conical, and broad at the base, with its apex turned upwards and inwards towards the ileo-caecal junction. It then resembles the caecum of some monkeys, e.g. mangabey monkey. As the fcetus grows the caecum increases in length more than in breadth, so that it forms a longer tube than in the primitive form and without the broad base, but with the same inclination inwards of the apex towards the ileo-caecal junction. This form is seen in other monkeys : e.g. the spider mdnkey. As development goes on, the lower part of the tube ceases to grow and the upper part becomes greatly increased, so that at birth there is a narrow tube, the vermiform appendix, hanging from a conical projection, the caecum. Tliis is the infantile form, and as it persists throughout life in about 2 per cent, of cases, it is regarded by Treves as the first of liis four types of human caeca. The caecum is conical and the appendix rises from its apex. The three longitudinal bands start from the appendix and are equidistant from each other. In the seco7id type, the conical caecum has become quadrate by the growing out of a saccule on either side of the anterior longitudinal band. These saccules are of equal size, and the appendix arises from between them.