ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1018 2. Stroma.—The stroma iridis consists of fibres and cells. The former are made up of delicate bundles of fibrous tissue, of which some few fibres have a circular direction at the circumference of the iris ; but the chief mass consists of fibres radiating towards the pupil. They form, by their interlacement, delicate meshes, in which the vessels and nerves are contained. Interspersed between the bundles of connective tissue are numerous branched cells with fine processes. In dark eyes many of them contain pigment-granules, but in blue eyes and the pink eyes of albinos they are unpigmented. Ha. 838.—Vessels of the choroid, ciliary processes, and iris of a child. (Arnold.) Magnified 10 times. Fig. 839.—Diagrammatic representation of the course of the vessels in the eye. Horizontal section. (Leber.) Arteries and capillaries red ; veins blue. a. Capillary network of the posterior part of the choroid, endiBg at 6, the ora serrata. c. Arteries of the corona ciliaris, supplying the ciliary processes, d, and passing into the iris, e. f. The caplUary network close to the pupillary margin of the iris. 3. The muscular fibres are involuntary, and consist of circular and radiating fibres. The circular fibres (m. sphincter pupillse) sur- round the margin of the pupil on the posterior surface of the iris, like a sphincter, forming a narrow band about one-thirtieth of an inch (1 mm.) in width; those near the free margin are closely aggregated; those more external, somewhat separated, form incom- plete circles. The radiating fibres (m. dilatator pupillse) converge. „;,,^,,inr fibrfs from the circumference towards the centre, and blend with the cucular fibres near the margin of the pupil. These fibres are regarded by some as elastic, "^V^The posterior surface (facies posterior) of the iris is of a deep l^rpl^^^^^^^^^^ being covei^d by two layers of pigmented -oh^nmav ev^thehnm co^^^ at the periphery of the iris with the pars ciliaris retinw. Tins P'gm^ntea epitheliSmTs nLed the pars iridica retinc. or, from the resemblance of its colour to that of a ripe grape, the uvea. ) Entrance of optic nerve, a. Short posterior ciliary artenes. 6 Long posterior ciliary arteries, c. .^Jltcrior ciliary vessels. d. Posterior conjunctival vessels, d'. Anterior conjunctivul vessels, c. Central vessels of the retina, f. ^ ffisels of tlie inner sheatli of the optic nerve, g. Vessels of tlie outer sheath, h. Vorticose vein. i. Short posterior cihary vein. Branches of Uie short posterior ciharj- arteries to the optic nerve I Anastomosis of choroidal vessels with those of optic nerve, m. Chorio-capUlaris. n. Kpi.-;deral vessels. 0 Becurrent artcivof tlie choroid, p. OrciUus indis major (in section). ?. VesscLs of iris. J-- Vessels of cihary pr^f.'j. s Branch from eiliarv muscle to vorticose vein. <. Branch from cUiary muscle to anterior ciliary vein. «. Canal of Schlemm. r. Capillarv loop at margin of coniea.