NEUROLOGY 984 minimi digiti, divides into a superficial and a deep branch. Before its division, it supplies the Flexor accessorius and Abductor mmimi digiti. Ihe superficial branch (ramus superlicialis) separates into two digital nerves : one, the smaller of the two, supplies the outer side of the little toe, the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, and tlie two Interosseous muscles of the fourth metatarsal space ; the other and larger digital branch supplies the adjoining sides of the fourth and fifth toes, and communicates with the internal plantar nerve. Tlie deep branch (ramus profundus) accompanies tlie external x^lantar artery on the deep surface of the tendons of the Flexor muscles and the Adductor obliquus hallucis, and supplies all the Interossei (except thoi?e in the fourth metatarsal space), the three outer Lumbricales, the Adductor obhquus hallucis, and the Adductor transversus hallucis. The external popliteal or peroneal (n. peronseus commimis) (fig. 813), about one-half the size of the internal popliteal, is derived from the dorsal branches of the last two lumbar and first two sacral nerves. It descends obliquely along the outer side of the popliteal space to the head of the fibula, close to the inner margin of the Biceps muscle. It is easily felt beneath the skin behind the head of the fibula, at the inner side of the tendon of the Biceps. It lies bet^^'een the tendon of the Biceps and outer head of the Gastrocnemius muscle, winds round the neck of the fibula, between the Peroneus longus and the bone, and divides beneath the muscle into the anterior tibial and musculo- cutaneous nerves. The branches of the external -popliteal nerve, previous to its division, are^ articular and cutaneous. The articular branches are three in number ; two of these accompany the superior and inferior external articular arteries to the outer side of the knee. The upper one occasionally arises from the great sciatic nerve before its bifurcation. The third [recurrent) articular nerve is given off at the point of di^asion of the external popliteal nerve ; it ascends with the anterior recurrent tibial artery through the Tibialis anticus muscle to the front of the knee, which it supphes. The cutaneous branches, two or three in number, supply the integument along the back part and outer side of the leg ; one of these, larger than the rest the communicans peronei (ramus anastomoticus peronteus), arises near the head of the fibula, crosses the external head of the Gastrocnemius to the middle of the leg, and joins with the communicans tibialis to form the external saphenous. The communicans peronei is occasionally continued down as a separate branch as far as the heel. The anterior tibial (n. peronseus profundus) (fig. 808) commences at the bifurcation of the peroneal nerve, between the fibula and upper part of the Peroneus longus, passes obUquely forwards beneath the Extensor longus dif^itorum to the fore part of the interosseus membrane, and comes mto relation with the anterior tibial artery above the middle of the leg ; it then descends with the artery to the front of the ankle-joint, where it divides mto an external and an internal branch. It lies at first on the outer side of the anterior tibial artery, then in front of it, and again on its outer side at the ankle-joint. The branches of ihe anterior tibial nerve, in its course through the leg, are muscuUr to the Tibiahs anticus. Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius. and Extensor proprius hallucis muscles, and an articular bramh to the anKie- """^^The external terminal branch passes out^^'ards across the tarsus beneath the Extensor brevis digitorum, and, having become enlarged like tlie posterior interosseus nerve at the wrist, supplies the Extensor brevis digitorum i lo n the enlaraement three minute interosseous branches are given oH, wlncii suppiv tlie tarsal joints and the metatarso-phalangeal joints of second, ttod and fourth toes. The first of these sends a filament to the Second dorsal intei osseous The internal branch, the continuation of the nerve, accompames «o™s pedis artery along the inner side of the dorsum of the foot and at^ tbe ti st nterosseous space, divides into two branches, which supply '-^^J-^^^"*^^ of the great aid second toes, communicating with the innermost branch of the musculicutaneous nerve. Before it divides it gives ofE to the fiist space ^n interosseous branch wliicli supplies the metatarso-phalangeal joint ot (he great toe and sends a filament to the First dorsal interosseous muscle.