MEMBRANES AND APPENDAGES OF THE EMBRYO 99 intervenes between the ovum and the uterine wall is named the decidua basalts or decidua vlacentalis : it is here that the placenta is subsequently developed. The part of the decidua which lines the remainder of the uterus is known as the The trophoblast of the ovum proliferates rapidly and forms numerous branching villous processes which cover the entire surface of the ovum and invade and destroy the surrounding decidua. They embrace and erode the uterine capillaries so that blood spaces containing maternal blood are formed around the villi and m the trophoblast These spaces become greatly distended and constitute the maternal blood sinuses or intervillous spaces. The villi are at first non-vascular and consist of trophoblast only ; processes of mesoderm, however, soon invade them and carry into them branches of the umbilical vessels. Coincidently with the growth of the embryo, the decidua capsulars is thinned and extended (fig. 12-1). Its vascular supply is diminished, and it undergoes deo'eneration, and at the same time the non-placental villi atrophy and disappear. The space between the decidua capsularis and decidua vera is gradually obliterated, so that by the third month of pregnancy the two are in contact. By the fifth month ■piQ. 124. Sectional plan of the gravid uterus in the third and fourth month. (Modified from Wagner.) Placental villi imbedded in the ' uterus f amnion vera the decidua capsularis has practically disappeared, and, as a consequence, the chorion Iseva comes directly into contact with the decidua vera. During the succeeding months of pregnancy the decidua vera also undergoes atrophy, owing to the in- creased pressure. The glands of the stratum compactum are obliterated, and their epithelium is lost. In the stratum spongiosum the glands are compressed and present the appearance of slit-like fissures, while their epithelium undergoes degeneration. In the deepest or unaltered layer, however, the glandular epithelium retains a columnar or cubical form. The placenta.—The placenta comiects the fcetus to the uterine wall, and is the organ by means of which the nutritive, respiratory, and excretory functions of the fcetus are carried on. It is composed of foetal and maternal portions. The festal portion of the placenta consists of the villi of the placental part of the chorion. It has already been pointed out that the chorionic villi consist at firstoftrophoblast (ectoderm) only (fig. 125), and that they become vascularised by the growth into them of the mesoderm which conveys branches of the umbilical vessels (fig. 126). Further, it has been shown that, for a time, they cover the entire surface of the ovum and invade the whole o£ the surrounding decidua, but owing to the growth of the ovum and consequent extension of the decidua capsularis the