399 MECHANISM OF THE PELVIS Fig. 448.—Coronal section of posterior sacral segment. interposes the resistance of its wedge shape and that of the iiiterloclcing mechanism ^. unurfaces • a rotatory movement, however, is produced by winch the anterior s'^mentt il ed downwards and the posterior upwards ; the axis of thrs rotation nasSs through the dorsal part of the middle segment. The movement of the Er or segment is slightly limited by its wedge form, but chiefly by the postenor srcro-iliac ligaments ; that of the posterior segment is checked to a shght extent by its wedge form, but the chief Hmiting factors are the great and small sacro- sciatic hgameuts. In all these movements the effect of the sacro- iliac and iUo-lumbar ligaments and the Ugaments of the sym- physis pubis in resisting the separation of the iUac bones must be recognised. . _ ^.v/ //l'<i-'.-/H\'~ During pregnancy the pelvic joints and ligaments are relaxed, and capable therefore of more extensive movements. When the foetus is being expelled the force is appUed to the front of the sacrum. Upward dislocation is again prevented by the inter- . , r ^ i i j +t, locking mechanism of the middle segment. As the foetal head passes the anterior segment the latter is carried upwards, enlarging the antero-posterior diameter of the pelvic inlet; when the head reaches the posterior segment this also is pressed upwards against the resistance of its wedge, the movement only being possible by the laxity of the joints and the stretching of the sacro-sciatic ligaments. ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The articulations of the Upper Extremity may be arranged as follows : . ^ SacraL - Segment^ 1 >-.a s I. Sterno-clavicular. II. Acromio-clavicular. III. Shoulder. IV. Elbow\ V. Radio-ulnar. XI. Interphalangeal. VI. Wrist. VII. Carpal. VIII. Carpo-metacarpal. IX. Intermetacarpal. X. Metacarpo-phalangeal. I. STERNO-CLAVICULAE ARTICULATION (ARTICULATIO STERNOCLAVICXJLARIS) The Sterno-clavicular articulation (fig. 449) is regarded by most anatomists as an artlirodial joint; but Cruveilhier considers it to be an articulation by reciprocal reception. Probably the former opinion is correct, the variety of movements which the joint enjoys being due to the interposition of an inter- articular fibro-cartilage between the joint surfaces. The parts entering into its formation are the sternal end of the clavicle, the upper and lateral part of the manubrium sterni, and the cartilage of the first rib. The articular surface of the clavicle is much larger than that of the sternum, and is invested with a layer of cartilage,* which is considerably thicker than that on the latter bone. The ligaments of this joint are: Capsular. Interclavicular. Anterior Sterno-clavicular. Costo-clavicular (rhomboid). Posterior Sterno-clavicular. Interarticular fibro-cartilage. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) completely surrounds the articulation and consists of fibres of varying degrees of thickness and strength. Those in front and behind are of considerable thickness, and form the anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular ligaments ; but those above, and especially those below, are thin and scanty, and partake more of the character of areolar than of true fibrous tissue. * According to Bruch, tlie sternal end of the clavicle is covered by a tissue which is fibrous rather than cartilaginous in structure.