341 APPLIED ANATOMY OF FEMUR fragments become united by fibrous tissue, but frequently no union takes place, and the opposed surfaces become smooth and eburnated. Fractures at the junction of the neck with the great trochanter are usually termed exlra-capsular, but this designation is also incorrect, as the fracture is partly within the capsule owing to its attachment in front to the anterior intertrochanteric line, which is situated below the line of fracture. These fractures are produced by direct violence to the great trochanter, as from a fall laterally on the hip. From the manner m which the accident is caused the neck of the bone is driven into the trochanter, where it may remain impacted, or the trochanter may be split into two or more fragments, disimpaction resulting. , .. . Fractm'es of the shaft may occur at any part, but the most usual situation is at or near the centre of the bone. They may be caused by direct or mdirect violence. Fractures of the upper third of the shaft are almost always the result of mdirect violence, while those of the lower thu-d are the result, for the most part, of direct violence. Fractures of the shaft are generally obhque, but they may be transverse, longitudinal, or spiral. The transverse fracture occurs most frequently in children. The fractures of the lower end of the femur include transverse fracture above the condyles, the most common ; and this may be complicated by a vertical fracture between the condyles, constituting the T-shaped fracture. In these cases the popliteal artery is in danger of being wounded. Obhque fracture separating either the internal or external condyle, and a longitudinal mcomplete fracture between the condyles, may also take place. The femur as well as the other bones of the leg is frequently the seat of acute osteo- myeUtis in children. This is no doubt due to then- greater exposui-e to injury, which is often the excitmg cause of this disease. Necrosis of portions of the diaphysis frequently ensues, especially in the region of the popliteal surface of the femur, and the disease may contmue for years, great trouble being experienced with dischargmg sinuses which periodically close and reopen to allow of the exit of a piece of dead bone. Tumoiu-s are not infrequently foimd growing from the femm-: the most common forms being sarcoma which may grow either from the periosteum or from the medullary tissue within the interior of the bone, and exostosis which commonly originates in the neighbourhood of the epiphysial cartUage of the lower end. The periosteal sarcomata of the femur and most of the central growths are usually of a very high degree of malignancy; although the 'myeloid' growth, which nowadays cannot be classed as a malignant tumour, may also be found. The region of the lower epiphysial line is by far the commoner seat for all these tumours, and it should be noted that the lower epiphysis has the longest period of active growth, and that these tumours usually begin to grow towards the end of the period of active growth. Sarcomata about the upper end of the femur are seen occasionally, but very rarely in comparison wdth those at the lower end. Secondary carcinoma also occurs in this bone, most commonly due to a primary focus in the breast, and spontaneous fracture of the bone may take place in these cases. The Patella The Patella (figs. 394 and 395) is a flat, triangular bone, situated at the anterior part of the knee-joint. It is usually regarded as a sesamoid bone, developed in the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor, and resembles these bones (1) in being developed in a tendon ; (2) in its centre of ossification presenting a knotty or tubercular outline ; (3) in being com- Fig. 394.—^Right patella. Fig._395.—Right patella, posed mainly of dense can- cellous tissue. It serves to protect the front of the joint, and increases the leverage of the Quadriceps extensor by making it act at a greater angle. It presents an anterior and a posterior surface, three borders, and an apex. The anterior surface is convex, perforated by small apertures, for the passage of nutrient vessels, and marked by numerous rough, longitudinal striae. This surface is covered, in the recent state, by an expansion from the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor, which is continuous below with the superficial fibres of the ligamentum patellae. It is separated from the integument by a bursa. The 'posterior surface (facies articularis)