SACRAL PLEXUS 983 Fro. 814.—The plantar nerves. Ea-ternal idantar Deep hranch 'The articular branch is given off just above tlie bifurcation of the nerve, and supplies the ankle-jomt. The internal plantar (n. plantaris medialis) (fig. 814), the larger of the two termmal branches of the posterior tibial, accompanies the internal plantar artery along the inner side of the foot. From its origin at the inner ankle it passes beneath the Abductor hallucis, and then forwards between this muscle Internal^ and the Flexor brevis digitorum; it plantar divides opposite the bases of the meta- tarsal bones into four digital branches, and communicates with the external plantar nerve. Branches.—In its course, the internal plantar nerve gives off cutaneous branches, which pierce the plantar fascia, and supply the integument of the sole of the foot; muscular branches, which supply tlie Abductor hallucis and Flexor brevis digitorum; articular branches to the ^articulations of the tarsus and meta- tarsus; and four digitalbranches. The first (innermost) branch becomes cutaneous about the middle of the sole, between the Abductor hallucis and Flexor brevis digitorum; the three outer branches pass between the divisions of the plantar fascia in the clefts between the toes. They are distributed in the following manner: the first supplies the inner border of the great toe, and sends a filament to the Flexor brevis hallucis muscle ■ the second bifurcates, to supply the adjacent sides of the great and second toes, sending a filament to the First lumbricalis ; * the third digital branch suppUes the adjacent sides of the second and third toes ; the fourth suppUes the corresponding sides of the third and fourth toes, and receives a commmricating branch from the external plantar nerve. Each digital nerve gives off cutaneous and articular filaments ; and opposite the last phalanx sends a dorsal branch, which suppUes the structures around the nail, the continuation of the nerve being distributed to the ball of the toe. It will be observed that these digital branches are precisely similar in their distribution to those of the median nerve m the liand. The external plantar (n. plantaris lateralis), the smaller of the two, completes the nervous supply to the structures of the sole of the foot, being distributed to the little toe and outer half of the fourth, as well as to most of the deep muscles, its distribution being similar to that of the uhxar in the hand. It passes obliquely forwards with the external plantar artery to the outer side of the foot, lying between the Flexor brevis digitorum and Flexor accessorius ; and, in the interval between the former muscle and the Abductor Fig. 815.—Cutaneous distribution of plantar nerves. Internal saphenous L. 3.4 External ■saphenous S. 1.2 ♦ Consult article by Brooks, Joivrnal of Anat. amd Physiol., vol. xxi.