COSTAL CARTILAGES 211 The Costal Cartilages The costal cartilages (cartilagines costales) (fig. 272) are bars of white, iiyahne cartilage, which serve to prolong the ribs forward to the front of the chest, and contribute very materially to the elasticity of its walls. The first seven pairs are connected with tlie sternum; the next three are each articu- lated with the lower border of the cartilage of the preceding rib ; the last two have pointed extremities, which end in the walls of the abdomen. Like the ribs, the costal cartilages vary in their length, breadth, and direction. They increase in length from the first to the seventh, then gradually diminish to tlie last. Then- breadth, as well as that of the intervals between them, diminishes from the first to the last. They are broad at their attachments to the ribs, and taper towards their sternal extremities, excepting the first two, which are of the same breadth throughout, and the sixth, seventh, and eighth, which are enlarged where their margins are in contact. They also vaiy in direction : the fu-st descends a little, the second is horizontal, the third ascends slightly, while the others follow the course of the ribs for a short distance, and then ascend to the sternum or preceding cartilage. Each costal cartilage presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The anterior surface is convex, and looks forwards and upwards : that of the first gives attachment to the costo-clavicular ligament and the Subclavius muscle ; that of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth, at their sternal ends, to the Pectorahs major.* The others are covered by, and give partial attachment to, some of the fiat muscles of the abdomen. The posterior surface is concave, and directed backwards and downwards; the first gives attachment to the Sterno-thyroid, the third to the sixth inclusive to the Triangularis sterni, and the six or seven inferior ones to the Transversalis abdominis and the Diaphragm. Of the two borders, the superior is concave, the inferior convex; they afford attachment to the Internal intercostal muscles: the upper border of the sixth gives attachment also to the Pectoralis major. The con- tiguous borders of the sixth, seventh, and eighth, and sometimes the ninth and tenth, costal cartilages present small, smooth, oblong-shaped facets at the points Avhere they articulate with one another. Of the two extremities, the outer one is continuous with the osseous tissue of tlie rib to which it belongs. The inner extremity of the first is continuous with the sternum ; the six succeeding ones have rounded ends, wliich are received into shallow concavities on the lateral margins of the sternum. The inner extremities of the eighth, ninth, and tenth costal cartilages are pointed, and are connected with the cartilage immediately above. Those of the eleventh and twelfth are free and pointed. The costal cartilages are most elastic in youth, those of the false ribs being more so than those of the true. In old age they become of a deep yellow colour, and are prone to undergo superficial ossification. Surface Form.—The bones of the chest are to a very considerable extent covered by muscles, so that in the strongly developed muscular subject they are for the most part concealed. In the emaciated subject, on the other hand, the ribs, especially in the lower and lateral regions, stand out as prominent ridges with the sunken, intercostal spaces between them. In the middle line, in front, the superficial surface of the sternum can be felt through- out its entire length, at the bottom of a deep median furrow, the sternal furrow, situated between the Pectoralis major muscles. These muscles overlap the anterior surface somewhat, so that the whole of the sternum in its entire width is not subcutaneous, and this overlapping is greater opposite the centre of the bone than above and below, so that the furrow is wide at its upper and lower part, but narrow in the middle. The centre of the upper border of the sternum constitutes the presternal notch, and is in the same horizontal plane as the lower border of the bod^' of the second thoracic vertebra ; the lateral parts of this border are obscured by the tendinous origins of the Sterno- niastoid miiscles, w-hich appear as oblique tendinous cords, naiTowing and deepening the notch. Lower down on the subcutaneous surface a well-defined transverse ridge, the anguliis Lxidovici, is always to be felt. This denotes the line of junction of the manubrium and gladiolus ; it lies at the level of the fifth thoracic vertebra, and is a useful guide to the second costal cartilage, and thus to the identity of any given rib. The second rib being found, through its costal cartilage, it is easy to coimt downwards and find any * The first and seventh in addition occasionally give origin to the same muscle. P 2