THE NUTRITIVE FLUIDS 9 The third and fourtli varieties together constitute from 20 to 30 per cent, of the colourless corpuscles, but of these two varieties the lymphocytes are by far the more numerous. Leucocytes having in their protoplasm granules which stam mth basic dyes (basophil) have been described as occurring in human blood, but they are rarely found except in disease. The colourless corpuscles are very various in shape in Uving blood (fig. 5), because many of them have the power of constantly changing their form by protruding finger-shaped or filamentous processes of their substance, by wliich they move, and take up granules from the surrounding medium. In locomotion the corpuscle pushes out a process of its substance—a fseudopodium, as it is called—and then ■piQ, 4.—Varieties of leucocytes found in human blood. Highly magnified. shifts the rest of the body into it. In the same way when any granule or particle comes in its way the corpuscle wraps a pseudopodium round it, and then mth- draws the pseudopodium with the contained particle into its own substance. By n^eans of these amoeboid properties the cells have the power of wandering or emigrating from the blood-vessels by penetrating their walls and thus finding their way into the extra-vascular spaces. A chemical investigation of the proto- plasm of the leucocytes shows the presence of nucleo-protein and of a globuHn. The occurrence of small amounts of fat and glycogen may also be demonstrated. The blood platelets are discoid or irregularly shaped, colourless, refractile bodies, much smaller than the red cells. Considerable discussion has arisen as to their significance. Recent observers have shown that under the action of certain Fig. 5.—Human colourless blood-corpuscle, shomng its successive changes of outline within ten minutes when kept moist on a warm stage. (Schofield.) S t ^ € ^ stains the centrally situated portion of the blood platelet takes on an appearance suggestive of a nucleus. In spite of this, and of the fact that they have been ob- served in the blood-vessels during hfe, there is still a tendency to regard them as products of disintegration of the wliite cells, or as precipitates, possibly of nucleo- p'otein, and not as hving elements of the blood. Origin of the blood corpuscles.—In the embryo the red corpuscles are developed from cells in the vascular area of the blastoderm. These cells unite with one another to form a network, their nuclei multiply in number, and around some of the nuclei aggregations of coloured protoplasm take place. After a time the fibres of the network become hollowed out by an accumulation of fluid, and form capillary blood-vessels, and in the fluid those nuclei which are surrounded by