THE PIA MATER 899 Fig. 760.—Transverse section of the spinal cord and its membranes. level of the lower border of the second sacral vertebra, and extends downwards as far as the base of the coccyx, where it blends witli tlie periosteum. It assists in maintaining the cord in its position dming the movements of the trunk, and is, from tliis circumstance, called the central ligament of the cord. The pia mater of botli the brain and the spinal cord forms sheaths for the nerves as they emerge from the central nervous matter. This sheath is closely connected mth the nerve, and blends with its common membranous investment. The lig-amentum denticulatum (figs. 757, 760) is a narrow fibrous band situated on either side of the spinal cord throughout its entire length, and separat- ing the anterior from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. It has received its name from the serrated appearance which it presents. Its inner border is continuous with the pia mater at the side of the cord. Its outer border pre- sents a series of triangular tooth-Uke processes, the points of which are fixed at intervals to the dui'a mater. These processes are twenty-one in number, on either side, the fii'st being attached to the dura mater, opposite the margin of the foramen magnum, between the vertebral artery and the hypoglossal nerve ; and the last near the lower end of the cord. Its function Is to support the cord in the fluid by which it is surrounded. Applied Anatomy.—Evidence of great value in the diagnosis of meningitis may some- times be obtained by pimctuiing the membranes of the cord and TOthdrawing some of the cerebro-spmal fluid ; moreover the operation of lumbar puncture is in many cases curative, under the supposition that the draining of some of the cerebro-spinal fluid reheves the patient by diminishing the intracranial pressure. The operation is performed by inserting a trocar, of the smallest size, between the laminae of the third and fourth, or of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, through the ligamentum subflavum. The spinal cord, even of a child at bu-th, does not reach below the third lumbar vertebra, and therefore the canal may be punctured between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae without any risk of injuring this structure. The point of puncture is indicated by lajang the child on its side and droppmg a perpendicular line from the highest point of the crest of the ilium ; this will cross the upper border of the spine of the fourth lumbar vertebra, and mil indicate the level at which the trocar should be inserted a little to one side of the middle line. The puncture may require to be repeated more than once, and the greatest precaution must be taken not to allow septic infection of the meninges. If there be any appreciable increase of pressure, the fluid will flow through the trocar with the greatest freedom. In addition to the constitutional signs and symptoms of fever, aciUe spinal meningitis exhibits certam characteristic features. Pain and tenderness to pressure along the spinal ■ column are common, and so are pains in the limbs or round the trunk from irritation of the posterior nerve-roots by the inflammatory products. Irritation of the anterior nerve- roots IS shown by the increased tone of the muscles, which may go on to the point where they pass into a state of spasm with much increased reflexes ; this is often seen in the retraction of the head and neck. Later in the disease the reflexes are often lost when also, the urine and faeces may be passed involuntarily. CRANIAL NERVES (NERVI CEREBRALES) There are twelve pairs of cranial nerves ; they are attached to the brain and are transmitted through foramina in the base of the cranium. Taken in their order, from before backwards, the different pairs are named as foUoM-s • 1st. Olfactory. 2nd. Optic. 3rd. Motor oculi. 4th. Trochlear (Pathetic). 5th. Trifacial (Trigeminus). 6th. Abducent. 7th. Facial. 8th. Auditory. 9th. Glosso-pharyngeal. 10th. Pneumogastric or Vagus, nth. Spinal accessory. 12th. Hypoglossal. The area of attachment of a cranial nerve to the surface of the brain is termed its superficial or apparent origin. The fibres of the nerve can, in all 3 M 2