THE LIVER 1171 the liver by the portal vein and hepatic arterj' finds its way into the interlobular plexus. From this plexus the blood is carried into the lobule by fine branches which converge from the circumference to the centre of the lobule, and are connected by transverse branches (fiw. 964). In the interstices of the network of vessels thus formed are situated the liver-cells ; and here it is that, the blood being brought into intimate connection wdth the liver-cells, the bile is secreted. Ai-rived at the centre of the lobule, all these minute vessels empty themselves into one vein, of considerable size, which runs down the centre of the lobule from apex to base, and is called the intralobular vein. At the base of the lobule this vein opens directly into the suhlobular vein, with which the lobule is connected. The sublobular veins imite to form larger and larger tranks, and end at last in the hepatic veins, which converge to form three large trunks which open into the inferior vena cava, while that vessel is situated in the fissm-e appropriated to it at the back of the liver. (3) The hile-ducls.—Several views have prevailed as to the mode of origin of the hepatic ducts ; it seems, however, to be generally believed that they commence by little passages which are formed between the cells, and which have been termed intercellular biliary passages or bile capillaries, although some authorities maintain that they have an intra- cellular origin. These passages are merely little channels or spaces left between the contiguous surfaces of two cells, or in the angle where three or more liver-cells meet (fig. 966), and they are always separated from the blood capillaries by at least half the width of a liver-cell. The channels thus formed radiate to the cu'cumference of the lobule, and form a plexus (interlobular) between the lobules. From this plexus ducts are derived which pass into the portal canals, become enclosed in Glisson's capsule, and, accompanying the portal vein and hepatic artery (fig. 967), join with other ducts to form two main trunks, which leave the liver at the transverse fissm-e, and by their union form the hepatic duct. Structure of the ducts.—The walls of the biliary ducts consist of a connective-tissue coat, in which are muscle-cells, arranged both circularly and longitudinally, and an epithelial layer, consisting of short columnar cells resting on a distinct basement-membrane. ExcBETOBY Apparatus of the Liver The excretory apparatus of the liver consists of (1) the hepatic duct, formed, as we have seen, by the junction of the two main ducts, which pass out of the liver at the transverse fissure ; (2) the gall-bladder, which serves as a reservoir for the bUe ; (3) the cystic duct, or the duct of tlie gall-bladder ; and (4) the common bile-duct, formed by the junction of the hepatic and cystic ducts. The hepatic duct.—Two main trunks of nearly equal size issue from the liver at the transverse fissure, one from the right, the other from the left lobe ; these unite to form the hepatic duct (ductus hepaticus), which then passes downwards and to the right for about an inch and a half, between the layers of the lessor omentum, where it is joined at an acute angle by the cystic duct, and so forms the common bile-duct (ductus choledochus). The hepatic duct is accompanied by the hepatic artery and portal vein. 4 F 2