MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN 515 If the pelvis and vertebr.al column be fixed, these muscles compress the lower part of the thorax, materially assisting expiration. If the pelvis alone be fixed, the thorax is bent directly forward, when the muscles of both sides act; when the muscles of only one side contract the trunk is bent towards that side and rotated towards the opposite side. If the thorax be fixed, the muscles, acting together, draw the pelvis upwards, as in climbing; or, acting singly, they draw the pelvis upwards, and bend the vertebral column to one side or the other. The Eecti, acting from below, depress the thorax, and consequently flex the vertebral column ; when acting from above, they flex the pelvis upon the vertebral column. The Pyramidales are tensors of the linea alba. The fascia transversalis is a thin aponeurotic membrane which lies between the inner surface of the Transversalis muscle and the extra-peritoneal fat. It forms part of the general layer of fascia lining the abdominal parietes, and is directly continuous with the iliac and pelvic fasciae. In the inguinal region, the transversalis fascia is thick and dense in structure and joined by Fig. 510.—The left internal abdominal ring. fibres from the aponeurosis of the Transversalis muscle, but it becomes thin as it ascends to the Diaphragm, and blends with the fascia covering the under aspect of this muscle. In front, it unites across the middle line with the fascia on the opposite side of the body ; and behind, it becomes lost in the tat which covers the posterior surfaces of the kidneys. Below, it has the following attachments : posteriorly, to the whole length of the crest of the mum, between the attachments of the Transversalis and Iliacus muscles ; between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the femoral vessels it IS connected to the posterior margin of Poupart's ligament, and is there continuous with the iliac fascia. Internal to the femoral vessels it is thin and attached to the pubis and ilio-pectineal line, behind the conjoined tendon, with which it is united ; it descends in front of the femoral vessels to form tlie anterior wall of the femoral sheath. Beneath Poupart's ligament it is strengthened by a band of fibrous tissue, which is only loosely connected to Poupart's ligament, and is specialised as the dee-p crural arch. "^The spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female pass through the L L 2