1027 THE EYE mesoderm, and associated in its diseases with the fibro-vasoular structures of the body; and (3) the posterior elastic layer -ndth its endothelium, also derived from the mesoderm Fig. 847. — Section through the margin of the lens, showing the transition of the epithelium into the lens-fibres. (Babuchin.) and having "the characters of a serous membrane, so that inflammation of it resembles inflammation of the other serous and synovial membranes of the body. The cornea contains no blood-vessels except at its periphery, where numerous delicate loops, derived from the anterior ciliary arteries, may be demonstrated on its anterior surface. The rest of the cornea is nourished by lymph, which gains access to the proper substance of the cornea and the posterior layer through the spaces of Fon- tana. This lack of a direct blood-supply renders the cornea very apt to inflame in the cachectic and ill-noui-ished. In cases of granular lids, there is a peculiar affection of the cornea, called panmis, in which the anterior layers of the cornea become vascularised, and a rich network of blood-vessels may be seen upon it ; and in interstitial keratitis new vessels extend into the cornea, giving it a pinldsh hue to which the term ' salmon patch ' is applied. The cornea is richly supplied with nerves, derived from the ciliary, which enter the cornea through the fore-part of the sclera and form plexuses in the stroma, terminating between the epithelial cells by free ends or in corpuscles. In cases of glaucoma the ciliary nerves may be pressed upon as they course between the choroid and sclera, and the cornea becomes anaesthetic. The sclera has very few blood-vessels and nerves. The blood-vessels are derived from the anterior ciliary, and form an open plexus in its substance. As they approach the corneal margui the arrangement is peculiar. Some branches pass through the sclera to the ciliary body; others become superficial and lie in the episcleral tissue, and form arches, by anastomosing with each other some little distance behind the corneal margin. From these arches numerous straight vessels are given off, which nm forwards to the cornea, forming its marguial plexus. In inflammation of the sclera and episcleral tissue these vessels become con- spicuous, and form a pinkish zone of straight vessels radiating from the corneal margui. commonly known as the zone of ciliary injection. In in- flammation of the iris and ciliary body this zone is present, since the sclera speedily becomes involved when these structures are inflamed. But in in- flammation of the cornea the sclera is seldom much affected, though the two are structurally continuous. This would appear to be due to the fact, that the nutrition of the cornea is derived from a different source than that of the sclera. The sclera may be ruptured subcutaneously Avithout any laceration of the conjunctiva and the rupture usually occurs near the corneal margin, where the tunic is thinnest. It may be complicated with lesions of adjacent parts—laceration of the choroid, retina, u-is, or suspensory ligament of the lens— and is then often attended with haaraorrhage into the anterior chamber, which masks the nature of the injury. In some cases the lens has escaped through the rent in the sclera and has been found under the conjunctiva. Wounds of the sclera are always dangerous, and are often followed by inflammation, suppuration, and by sympathetic ophthalmia. One of the functions of the choroid is to provide nutrition for the retma, and to convey vessels and nerves to the ciliary body and iris. Inflammation of the choroid is therefore followed by grave dLsturbances in the nutrition of the retina, and is attended with early mterference with vision. Its diseases bear a considerable analogy to those which affect 3 u 2