723 POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY Relations.—The posterior tibial artery lies successively upon the Tibialis posticus, the Flexor longus digitorum, the tibia, and the back part of the ankle- joint. It is covered by the deep transverse fascia, which separates it above from the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles : at its termination it is covered by the Abductor hallucis muscle. In the lower third of the leg, where it is more super- ficial, it is covered only by the integument and fascia, and runs parallel with the inner border of the tendo Achillis. It is accompanied by two veins, and by the posterior tibial nerve, which lies at first to the inner side of the artery, but soon crosses it, and is, in the greater part of its course, on its outer side. Behind the inner malleolus, the tendons and blood-vessels are arranged, under cover of the internal annular ligament, in the following order from within outwards : first, the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum, lying in the same groove, behind the inner malleolus, the former being internal. External to these is the posterior tibial artery, having a vein on either side; and, still more externally, the posterior tibial nerve. About half an inch nearer the heel is the tendon of the Flexor longus haUucis. Peculiarities in size.—The posterior tibial is not infi-equently smaller than usual, or absent, its place being supplied by a large peroneal artery, which passes inwards at the lower end of the tibia, and either joins the small posterior tibial artery, or continues alone to the sole of the foot. Surface Marking.—The course of the posterior tibial artery is indicated by a line drawn from a point an inch below the centre of the popliteal space to midway between the tip of the internal malleolus and the centre of the convexity of the heel. Applied Anatomy.—The apphcationof a ligature to the posterior tibial maybe required in cases of wound of the sole of the foot, attended with great haemorrhage, when the vessel should be tied at the inner ankle. In cases of wound of the posterior tibial, it will be necessary to enlarge the opening so as to expose the vessel at the wounded point, excepting where the vessel is injured by a punctured wound from the front of the leg. In cases of aneurysm from wound of the artery low down, the vessel should be tied in the middle of the leg. To tie the posterior tibial artery at the ankle, a semilunar incision, convex backwards, should be made through the Integument, about two inches and a half in length, midway between the heel and inner ankle, or a little nearer the latter. The subcutaneous cellular tissue having been divided, a strong and dense fascia, the internal annular ligament, is exposed. This ligament is continuous above with the deep fascia of the leg, covers the vessels and nerves, and is intimately adherent to the sheaths of the tendons. This having been cautiously divided upon a director, the sheath of the vessels is exposed, and, being opened, the artery is seen with one of the venae comites on either side. The aneurysm needle should be passed round the vessel from the heel towards the ankle, in order to avoid the posterior tibial nerve, care at the same time being taken not to include the venae comites. The vessel may also be tied In the lower third of the leg by making an incision about three inches in length, parallel vnth the inner margin of the tendo Achillis. The internal saphenous vein being carefully avoided, the two layers of fascia must be divided upon a director, when the artery is exposed along the outer margin of the Flexor longus digitorum, with one of Its venae comites on either side, and the nerve lying external to It. Ligature of the posterior tibial in the middle of the leg is a very difficult operation, on account of the great depth of the vessel from the surface. The patient being placed in the recumbent position, the injured limb should rest on its outer side, the knee being partially bent, and the foot extended, so as to relax the muscles of the calf. An incision about four mches in length should then be made through the Integument, a finger's breadth behind the inner margin of the tibia, care being taken to avoid the internal saphenous vein. The deep fascia having been divided, the margin of the Gastrocnemius is exposed, and must be drawn aside, and the tibial attachment of the Soleus divided. The artery may now be felt pulsating beneath the deep fascia, about an Inch from the margin of the tibia. The fascia ha^^ng been divided, and the limb placed in such a position as to relax A ^y^^^^^^ °^ ^^^f *8 much as possible, the veins should be separated from the artery and the aneurysm needle passed round the vessel from without inwards, so as to avoid woundmg the posterior tibial nerve. Branches.—The branches of the posterior tibial artery are: Peroneal. Muscular. Nutrient. Communicating. Internal calcanean. fib T^*^ peroneal (a. peronsea) lies, deeply seated, along the back part of the ubular side of the leg. It arises from the posterior tibial, about an inch below 3a2