MYOLOGY 574 Fio. 514 —Muscles of the hip and thigh. Inner liamalring tendms SortoriiiH — Gracilis Scmilendinusus Scmi- membranosua Oilier hdiiislring lenilon Biceps Tliree synovial bursce are usually found in relation with the deep surface of this muscle. One of these, of large size, and generally multilocular, separates it from the great trochanter. A second, often wanting, is situated on the tuberosity of the ischium. A third is found between the tendon of the muscle and that of the Vastus externus. Relations. — The Gluteus maximus is ia relation by its superficial surface with a thin fascia which separates it from the subcutaneous tissue; 1^3' its deep surface, from above down- wards, with the ilium, sacrum, coccyx, and great sacro-sciatic ligament, part of the Gluteu.s medius, Pyriformis, Giemelli. Obturator interniLs, Quaxiratus femoris, the tuberosity of the ischium, great trochanter, the origins of the Biceps, Semi- tendinosvLS, Semimembranosus, and the Adductor magnus. Tlie superficial part of the gluteal artery reaches the deep surface of the muscle by passing between the Pyriformis and the Gluteus medius; the sciatic and internal pudic vessels and nerves, and muscular branches from the sacral plexus, issue from the pelvis below the Pyriformis. The first per- forating artery and the terminal branches of the mternal circum- flex artery are also found under cover of the lower part of the muscle. Its upper border is thin, and connected mth the Gluteus medius by the fascia lata. Its lower border is free and promi- nent, and is crossed by the fold of the nates. The Gluteus medius is a broad, thick, radiating muscle, situated on the outer surface of the pelvis. Its pos- terior third is covered by the Gluteus maximus, its anterior two-thirds by the fascia lata, which separates it from the superficial fascia and integu- ment. It arises from the outer surface of the ilium, between the superior and middle curved lines, and from the outer lip of that portion of the crest M-hich is between them ; it also arises from the dense fascia (gluteal