821 THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA The anterior external arcuate fibres vary as to theii- prominence in different cases : in some they form an aimost continuous layer covering the pyramid and olivary body, while in otliers they are barely visible on the surface. They arise from the cells of the gracile and cuneate nuclei, and passing forwards through the formatio reticularis, decussate in the middle line. Most of them reach the surface by way of the anterior median fissure, and arch outwards and backwards over tlie pyramid. Reinforced by others which emerge between the pyi-amid and olivary body, they pass backwards over the olivary body and lateral area of the medulla, and enter the outer part of the restiform body. They thus connect the cerebellum with the gracile and cuneate nuclei of tlie opposite side. As the fibres arch across the pyi-amid, they enclose a small nucleus which lies in front and to the inner side of the pyramid. This is named the nucleus arcuatus, and is directly continuous above with the nuclei pontis in the pons Varolii : it contains small fusiform cells, around which some of the arcuate fibres terminate, and from which others arise. The posterior external arcuate fibres also take origin iji the gracile and cuneate nuclei ; they do not undergo decussation, but pass to the restiform body of the same side. Fig. 700.—Diagram showing the coui'se of the arcuate fibres. (Testut.) I. Medulla, anterior surface. 2. Anterior median fissure. 3. Fourth ventricle. 4. Olivary body, witli t'nc accessory olivary nuclei. 5. Gracile nucleus. 0. Cuneate nucleus. 7. Trigeminal. 8. Inferior cerebellar peduncles, seen from in front. 9. Posterior external arcuate fibres. 10. Anterior external arcuate fibres. 11. Internal arcuate fibres. 12. Peduncle of olivary body. 13. Nucleus arcuatus. 14. rneumogastric. 16. Hypoglossal. Formatio reticularis (fig. 701). This term is applied to the coarse reticulum wliicli occupies the anterior and lateral areas of the meduUa, and is seen M'hen transverse sections are examined. It is situated behind the pyi-amid and olivary body, extending laterally as far as the restiform bodies, and dorsally to within a short distance of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The reticulum is caused by the intersection of bundles of fibres running at right angles to each other, some being longitudmal, others more or less transverse in direction. The formatio reticularis presents a different appearance in the anterior area from wiiat it does in the lateral area ; in the former, there is an almost entire absence of nerve-cells, and hence this part is known as the reticularis alba ; whereas nerve-cells are numerous in the lateral area, and as a consequence it presents a grey appearance, and is termed the reticularis cjrisea. In the substance of the formatio reticularis are two small nuclei of grey matter : one is situated near the dorsal aspect of the hilus of the inferior olivary nucleus, and is named the inferior central nucleus, or nucleus of Roller ; the other lies between the olivary body and the .spinal root of the fifth nerve, and is termed the nucleus lateralis.