OSSIFICATION 319 Ossification of the Bones of the Hand The Carpal Bones are each ossified from a single centre, and ossification pro- ceeds in the following order (fig. 377) : in the os magnum and unciform during the first year, the former preceding the latter ; in the cuneiform, during the third rear; in the semilunar and trapezium, during the fifth year, the former preceding the latter; in the scaphoid, during the sixth year; in the trapezoid, during the eighth year; and in the pisiform, about the twelfth j^ear. Occasionally an additional bone, the os ceMrale, is found on the back of the c arpus, lying between the scaphoid, trapezoid, and os magnum. During the second month of foetal life it is represented by a small cartilaginous nodule, which usually fuses with the cartOaginous scaphoid. Sometimes the styloid process of the third metacarpal is detached and forms an additional ossicle. The Metacarpal Bones are each ossified from two centres ; one for the shaft and one for the digital extremity of each of the four inner bones ; one for the shaft and one for the carpal extremity of the first metacarpal bone.* It will be seen, therefore, that the first metacarpal bone is ossified in the same manner as the phalanges, and this has led some anatomists to regard the thumb as being made up of three phalanges, and not of a metacarpal bone and two phalanges. Ossification commences in the middle of the shaft about the eighth or ninth week of foetal life, the centre for the first metacarpal bone being the last to appear, and graduallj' proceeds towards either end of the bone; about the thii-d year the digital extremities of the four inner metacarpals, and the base of the first metacarpal begin to ossify ; they unite with the shafts about the twentieth year. The Phalanges are each ossified from two centres ; one for the shaft, and one for the proximal extremity. Ossification begins in the shaft, about the eighth week of foetal life. Ossification of the proximal extremity commences in the bones of the first row between the third and fourth years, and a year later in those of the second and third rows. The two centres become united in each row between the eighteenth and twentieth years. In the ungual phalanges the centres for the shafts appear at the distal extremities of the phalanges, instead of at the middle of the shafts, as in the other phalanges. Moreover, of all the bones of the hand, the ungual phalanges are the first to begin to ossify. Surface Form.—On the front of the -wrist are two subcutaneous eminences, one on the radial side, the larger and flatter, produced by the tuberosity of the scaphoid and the ridge on the trapezium; the other on the uhiar side, caused by the pisiform bone. The tuberosity of the scaphoid can be felt just below and internal to the apex of the styloid process of the radius, between the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and Flexor carpi radialis ; it is best perceived by extending the hand on the forearm. Half an inch below this tubercle another and better marked prominence can be felt; this is the ridge on the trapezium, which gives attachment to some of the short muscles of the thumb. On the inner side of the front of the wrist the pisiform bone forms a small but prominent projection. It is some distance below the lower end of the ulna, and just below the level of the styloid process of the radius ; it is crossed by the crease which separates the front of the forearm from the palm of the hand. The rest of the front of the carpus is covered by tendons and the annular ligament, and is entirely concealed, with the exception of the hooked process of the unciform, wliich can be made out only with difficulty. The back of the carpus is convex and covered by the Extensor tendons, so that the posterior surface of the cuneiform is the only bone which can be felt. Below the carpus the dorsal surfaces of the metacarpal bones, except the fifth, are covered by tendons, and are only visible m very thin hands. The dorsal surface of the fifth is, however, subcutaneous throughout almost its whole length, and is plainly to be perceived and felt. Slightly external to the middle line of the hand is a prominence, frequently well marked, but occasionally mdistinct, formed by the styloid process of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. This prommence is in the same line as tlie dorsal radial tubercle, and is an mch and a half below it. Tlie heads of the metacarpals are plainly to be felt and seen, rounded in contour and standing out in bold relief under the skin, when the fist is clenched. It should be borne in mind that when the fingers are flexed on the hand, the articular surfaces of the first phalanges glide off the heads of the metacarpals on to their anterior surfaces ; so that the heads of these bones form the prommences of the * Allen Thomson demonstrated the fact that the first metacarpal bone is often developed trom three centres : that is to say, there is a separate nucleus for the distal end, forming a distinct epiphysis visible at the age of seven or eight years. He also states that there are traces of a proximal epiphysis in the second metacarpal bone. Journal of Anat. and Physiol., 18G9.