LYMPHATICS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS 785 the hepatic glands and downwards to the pre-aortic glands around the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. The lymphatic vessels of the jejunum and ileum are termed lacteals, from the milk-white fluid they contain during intestinal digestion. They run between the layers of the mesentery and enter the mesenteric glands, the efferents of which terminate in the pre-aortic glands. The lymphatic vessels of the vermiform appendix and ccecum (figs. 665, 666) are numerous, since in the wall of the appendix there is a large amount of adenoid tissue. From the body and tail of the appendix eight to fifteen vessels ascend between the layers of the meso-apiDcndix, one or two being interrupted ill the appendicular gland. On reaching the stem of the appendicular artery, they unite to form three or four vessels, which end partly in the lower and partly in the upper glands of the ileo-colic chain. The vessels from the root of the appendix and from the c£ecum consist of an anterior and a posterior group. The anterior vessels pass in front of the caecum, and end in the anterior ileo-colic glands, and in the upper and lower glands of the ileo-colic Fig. 666.—The lymphatics of caecum and vermiform appendix, from behind. (Jamieson and Dobson.) Ujijjer group of ■ileo-colic glands Lower grouj) of ileo-colic glands Vermiform appendix CcBcii/m chain; the posterior vessels ascend over the back of the caecum and termi- nate in the posterior ileo-colic glands and in the lower glands of the ileo-colic chain. Lymphatic vessels of the colon.—The lymphatics of the ascending and transverse parts of the colon finally terminate in the mesenteric glands, after traversing the right colic and meso-colic glands. Those of the descending and ilio-pelvic parts of the colon are interrupted by the small glands on the branches of the left colic and sigmoid arteries, and ultimately end in the pre-aortic glands around the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery (fig. 664). Lymphatic vessels of the anus, anal canal, and rectum.—The lymphatics from the anus pass forwards and end with those of the integument of tiie perineeum and scrotum in the superficial inguinal glands ; those from the anal canal accompany the middle and inferior haemorrhoidal arteries, and end in the internal iliac glands ; while the vessels from the rectum traverse the pararectal glands and pass to those in the pelvic meso-colon ; the efferents of the latter terminate in the pre-aortic glands around the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery. 3 s