1177 THE PANCREAS iwlorus ■ its postero-infeiior surface is in relation with the commencement of the portal vein ; on the right it is grooved by tlie gastro-duoclenal artery. The body (corpus pancreatis) is somewhat prismatic in shape, and has three surfaces : anterior, posterior, and inferior. , • i- The anterior surface (facies anterior) is somewhat concave, and is clirectea forwards and upwards : it is covered by the postero-inferior surface of the stomach which rests upon it, the two organs being separated by the lesser sac of the peritoneum. Where it joins tlie neck there is a well-marked promi- nence, the tuber omentale, wliich abuts against the posterior surface of the smaU omentum. . i • ■ The posterior surface (facies posterior) is devoid of peritoneum, and is in contact AAdth the aorta, the splenic vein, the left kidney and its vessels, the left suprarenal gland, the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, and the crura of the Diaphragm. • , i The inferior surface (facies inferior) is narrow on the right but broader on the left, and is covered by peritoneum ; it lies upon the duodeno-jejunal Fig. 972.—The pancreas and duodenum from behind. (Drawn from His' model.) Superior mesenteric arteri/ Gmliao axis Area for diajilirar/m flexure and on some coils of the jejunum ; its left extremity rests on the splenic flexure of the colon. The superior border (margo superior) is blunt and flat to the right; narrow and sharp to the left, near the tail. It commences on the right in the omental tuberosity, and is in relation \vitli the cceliac axis, from which the hepatic artery courses to the right just above the gland, while the splenic artery runs towards the left in a groove along this border. The anterior border (margo anterior) separates the anterior from the inferior surface, and along this border the two layers of the transverse mesocolon diverge from one another : one passing upwards over the anterior surface, the other backwards over the inferior surface. The inferior border separates the posterior from the inferior surface ; the superior mesenteric vessels emerge under its right extremity. The tail (cauda pancreatis) is narrow ; it extends to the left as far as the lower part of the gastric surface of the spleen, and it is in contact with the splenic flexure of the colon. Birmingham describes the body of the pancreas as projecting forwards as a prominent ridge into the abdominal cavity and forming a sort of shelf on