CONNECTIVE TISSUES 17 posed of white fibres and yellow elastic fibres intercrossing in all directions, and united together by a homogeneous cement or ground substance, the matrix, showing cell-spaces wherein lie the connective tissue corpuscles ; these contain the protoplasm out of which the whole is developed and regenerated. The tvhite fibres are arranged in waving bands or bundles of minute transparent homogeneous filaments or fibrillro. The bundles have a tendency to split up Fig. 19.—Adipose tissue. High power. a. Starliko appearance, from crystallisation of fatty acids. longitudinally or send off slips to join neighbouring bundles, and receive others in return, but the individual fibres are unbranched, and never join other fibres. The yelloiv elastic fibres have well-defined outlines and are considerably largcsr in size than the white fibrillro, but vary much, being from the ^Icin to the -j_i^,Tr of an inch in diameter. They form bold and wide curves, branch, and freely anastomose mth each other; Fig. 20.—Development of fat. (Klein and Noble Smith.) they are homogeneous in appear- ance, and tend to curl up, especially at their broken ends. Adipose tissue.—In almost all parts of the body the ordinary areolar tissue contains a variable quantity of fat. The principal situations where it is not found arc the subcutaneous tissue of the eyelids, of the penis and scrotum, of the njTnphpe; within the cavity of the cranium; and in the lungs, except near their roots. Its dis- tribution is not uniform ; in some parts it is collected in great abund- ance, as in the subcutaneous tissue, especially of the abdomen ; around the kidneys, and in some other situations. Lastly, fat enters largely into the formation of the marrow of bones. A distinction must be made between fat and adipose tissue ; the latter being a distinct tissue, the former an oily matter, which in addition to forming adipose tissue is also widely present in the body, as in the brain and liver, and in the blood, chyle, &c. Adipose tissue consists of small yeniolcs, fat-cells, lodged in the meshes of areolar ti.ssue. Fat-cclls (fig. 19) vary in size, but are of about the average diameter of y,',,-, of an inch; each consists of an exceedingly delicate protoplasmic mem- brane, filled with fatty matter, which is liquid during life, but becomes solidified a. Minute artery, r. Minute vein. c. Capillary blood-ves-sels iu tlie course of fonnntion ; tliey are not yet conipleti'ly lioUowcci out, there being still left in them protoiilasniio sepia. (/. The ground substance, containing numerous nucleated cells, some of which are more distinctly branched and flattened than others, and appear therefore more spindle-shaped.