1196 SPLANCHNOLOGY the symphysis pubis and the umbilicus ' (Symington).* Its posterior surface is clothed with peritoneum as far as the level of the orifice of the urethra. Although the bladder of the infant is usually described as an abdominal organ, Symington has pointed out that only about one-half of it lies above the plane of the pelvic inlet. Disse maintains that the urethral orifice sinks rapidly during the first three years, and then more slowly until the ninth year, after which it remains stationary until puberty, when it again slowly descends and reaches its adult position. The female bladder (fig. 995).—In the female, the bladder is in relation behind with the uterus and tlie upper part of the vagina. It is separated from the anterior surface of the body of the uterus by the utero-vesical pouch of peritoneum, but below the level of this pouch it is connected to the front of the cervix uteri and the upper part of the anterior wall of the vagina by areolar tissue. When the bladder is empty the uterus rests upon its superior surface. Fig. 995.—Median sagittal section of female pelvis. Sacrum Coccyx Becto-vesical pouch or pouch of Douglas Os uteri extemmn Anal canal Utero-vesical pou ch Urethra The female bladder is said by some to be more capacious than that of the male, but probably the opposite is the case. Ligaments.—The bladder is retained in its place by ligaments, which are divided into true and false. The true ligaments are five in number : two anterior, two lateral, and the urachus. The false Ugaments, also five in number, are formed by folds of the peritoneum. The anterior true ligaments (pubo-prostatic) extend from the back of the pubic bones, one on either side of the symphysis, to the front of the neck of the bladder, over tlic anterior surface of" the prostate gland. These hganicnts are formed by the fascia cndopelvina, and contain a fcAV muscular fibres prolonged from the bladder. The lateral true ligaments, also formed by the fascia cndopelvina are broader and tliinner than tlie preceding. They are attached to the lateral parts of the prostate, and to the sides of the base of the bladder. * The Anaiomy of the child.