1129 THE PERITONEUM The mesenteries are : the mesentery proper, the transverse mesocolon, and the pelvic mesocolon. In addition to these there are sometimes present an ascending and a descending mesocolon. The mesentery -proper (mesenterium) is the broad, fan-shaped fold ot peri- toneum which connects the convolutions of the jejunum and ileum with tlie posterior wall of the abdomen. Its roo<—the part connected with the structures in front of the vertebral column—is narrow, about six inches in length, and is directed obUquely from the duodeno-jejunal flexure at the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa (fig. 927). Its intestinal border is about twenty feet in length ; and here the two layers separate to enclose the intestine, and form its peritoneal coat. Its breadth, between its vertebral and intestinal borders, is about eight inches. Its upper border is continuous mth the under surface of the transverse mesocolon : its lower border, mth the peritoneum covering the CBCcum and ascending colon. It serves to retain the small intestines in their position, and contains between its layers the rami intestini tenms of the superior mesenteric artery, with their accompanying veins and plexuses of nerves, the lacteal vessels, and mesenteric glands. In most cases the peritoneum covers only" the front and sides of the ascending and descending parts of the colon. Sometimes, however, these are surrounded by the serous membrane and attached to the posterior abdominal wall by an ascending and a descending mesocolon respectively. At the place where the transverse colon turns downwards to form the descend- ing colon, a fold of peritoneum is continued to the Diaphragm opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs. This is the phreno-colic ligament; it passes below the spleen, and serves to support tliis organ, and therefore it has received the name of sustentaculum lienis. The transverse mesocolon (mesocolon transversum) is a broad fold, Avhich connects the transverse colon to the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is continuous with the two posterior layers of the great omentum, which, after separating to surround the transverse colon, join behind it, and are continued backwards to the spine, where they diverge in front of the anterior border of the pancreas. This fold contains between its layers the vessels which supply the transverse colon. The pelvic mesocolon is the fold of peritoneum which retains the pelvic colon in connection with the pelvic wall. Its fine of attachment forms a V-shaped curve, the apex of the curve being placed about the point of division of the left common ihac artery. The curve begins on the inner side of the left Psoas, and runs upwards and backwards to the apex, from which it bends sharply dowmvards and inwards, and ends in the mesial plane at the level of the third sacral vertebra. Between the two layers of this fold run the sigmoid and superior hsemorrhoidal vessels. The appendices epiploicce are small pouches of the peritoneum filled ^\^th fat and situated along the colon and upper part of the rectum. They are cliiefly appended to the ti'ansverse colon. Retro-peritoneal fossae.—In certain parts of tlie abdominal cavity there are recesses of peritoneum forming culs-de-sac or pouches, which are of surgical interest in connection with the possibiUty of the occurrence of retro-peritoneal hernia. One of these is the lesser sac of the peritoneum, which may be regarded as a recess of peritoneum through the foramen of Winslow, in which a hernia may take place, but there are several others, of smaller size, which require mention. These recesses or fossaj may be divided into three groups, viz. : 1, the duodenal fossje ; 2, the circumcsecal fossae ; and 3, the intersigmoid fossa. 1. Duodenal fossm (figs. 928, 929).—Moynihan has described no less than nine fossae as occurring in the neighbourhood of the duodenum. Three of these are fairly constant, and are the only ones which require mention, (a) The inferior duodenal fossa is the most constant of all the peritoneal fossae in this region, being jDresent in from 70 to 75 per cent, of cases. It is situated oppo- site the third lumbar vertebra on the left side of the ascending portion of the duodenum. Its opening is directed upwards, and is bounded by a thin sharp fold of peritoneum Avith a concave margin, called the inferior duodeiial fold. The tip of the index finger introduced into the fossa under the fold passes