1214 SPLANCHNOLOGY front of tlie symphysis jjubis by tlie suspensory lujamml (lig. suspensoriuni penis). Tlie upper fibres of tliis ligament pass downwards from the lower end of the linea alba, and the Jower fibres from the symphysis pubis • togetlier they form a strong fibrous band, which extends to tlie upper surface of the root, where it splits into two fasciculi and blends with the fascial sheath of the organ. Tiie body (corpus penis) extends from the root to the ends of the corpora cavernosa, and in it the corpora cavernosa are intimately bound to one another A shallow groove which marks their junction on the upper surface lodges the deep dorsal vein of the penis, while a deeper and mder groove between them on the under surface contains the corpus spongiosum. The body is ensheathed by fascia, which is continuous above with the fascia of Scarpa, and below with the dartos of the scrotum and the fascia of CoUes. The extremity is formed by the glans penis, the expanded anterior end of the corpus spongiosum. It is separated from the body by the constricted neck, which is overhung by the corona glancUs. The integument covering the penis is remarkable for its thinness, its dark colour, its looseness of connection mth the deeper parts of the organ and its absence of adipose tissue. At the root of the penis it is continuous with that over the pubes, scrotum, and perinseum. At the neck it leaves the surface and^ becomes folded upon itself to form the prepuce or foreskin (prseputium penis). The internal layer of the prepuce is directly continuous, along the line of the neck, with the integument over the glans. Immediately belund the urinary meatus it forms a small secondary reduplication, attached along the bottom of a depressed median raphe, which extends from the meatus to the neck ; tliis fold is termed the frenulum (frenulum prseputii). The integument covering the glans is continuous with the urethral mucous membrane at the meatus ; it is devoid of hairs, but projecting from its free surface are a number of small, highly sensitive papillae. On the corona and neck numerous small glands, the glandulce Tysonii odoriferoe (glandulse prseputii) have been described.* They secrete a sebaceous material of very peculiar odour, which probably contains casein, and readily undergoes decomposition. The prepuce covers a variable amount of the glans, and is separated from it by a potential sac—the preputial sac—wliich presents two shallow recesses (fossae frenuli), one on either side of the frenulum. Structure of the penis,—^Prom the internal surface of the fibrous envelope of the corpora. cavernosa as well as from the sides of the septum, numerous bands or cords are given off, which cross the interior of the corpora cavernosa in all directions, subdividing them into a number of separate compartments, and giving the entire structure a spongy appearance. These bands and cords are called trabecidoe (trabecule corporum cavernosorum), and consist of white fibrous tissue, elastic fibres, and plain muscular fibres. In them are contained numerous arteries and nerves. The component fibres which form the trabeculse are larger and stronger round the circumference than at the centres of the corpora cavernosa ; they are also thicker behind than in front. The interspaces (cavernous spaces), on the contrary, are larger at the centre than at the circumference, thek long diameters being du-ected transversely. They are filled with blood, and are lined by a layer of flattened cells similar to the endothelial lining of veins. The arteries bringing the blood to these spaces are the arteries of the corpora cavernosa and branches from the dorsal arteries of the penis, which ])erforate the fibrous capsule, along the upper surface, especially near the fore-part of the organ. On entering the cavernous structure the arteries divdde into branches, which are supported and enclosed by the trabeculfe. Some of these arteries terminate in a capillary network, the branches of which open dhectly into the cavernous spaces ; others assume a tendril-like appearance, and form convoluted and somewhat dilated vessels, which were named by Miiller helicine arteries. They ju-oject into the spaces, and from them are given ofi small capillary branches to supply the trabecular structure. They are bound down in the spaces by fine fibrous processes, and are most abundant in the back part of (he corjjora cavernosa (fig. 1008). The blood from the cavernous spaces is returned by a series of vessels, some of which emerge in considerable numbers from the base of the glans penis and converge on the ♦ Stieda (Conijjteii-rendufi du, XII Congrh International de Mddooitw, Moscow, 18!17) asserts that Ty.son's glands arc never found on the corona glandis, and that what have hitherto been mistaken for glands are really large papillie.