769 LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAB, PACE, AND NECK integument and mucous membrane of the nose and cheek; their efferents pass to the submaxillary glands. The internal maxillary glands (lymphoglandulse faciales profundaa) are deeply placed beneath the ramus of the mandible, on the outer surface of the External pterygoid, in relation to tlie internal maxillary artery. Their afferent vessels di'ain the temporal and zygomatic fossae and the naso-pharynx; their eiferents pass to the upper glands of the deep cervical grouiJ. The lingual glands (lymphoglandultB Imguales) are two or three small nodules lying on the Hyo-glossus, and under the Genio-hyoglossus. They form merely glandular sub-stations in the course of the lymphatic vessels of the tongue. The retro-pharyngeal glands (fig. 651) lie in the bucco-pharyngeal fascia, behind the upper part of the pharynx and in front of the arch of the atlas, being separated, however, from the latter by the Rectus capitis anticus major. Their afferents drain an extensive area, comprising the nasal fossa?, the naso-pharynx, and the Eustachian tubes ; their efferents pass to the upper glands of the deep cervical group. The lymphatic vessels of the scalp are divisible into (a) those of the frontal region, which terminate in the parotid glands ; (6) those of the temporo- FiG. 651.—^L5miphatics of pharynx. (Poirier and Charpy.) Affei'iiU vessel to (tfHj cerrictit glanUs Glandular nodule Gland of deep cervical chain Kffcient vessels of retro- 2'/iariin(je<il glands parietal region, which end in the parotid and posterior auricular glands ; and (c) those of the occipital region, which terminate partly in the occipital glands and partly in a trunk which runs down along the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid to end in the lower group of deep cervical glands. The lymphatic vessels of the pinna and external auditory meatus are also divisible into thi-ee groups : (a) an anterior, from the outer surface of the pinna and anterior wall of the meatus to the parotid glands ; (&) a posterior, trom the margin of the pinna, the upper part of its inner surface, the internal surface and posterior wall of the meatus to the posterior auricular and upper deep cervical glands ; (c) an inferior, from the floor of the meatus and from tlie lobule to the external jugular and upper deep cervical glands. Th f ^y^'P^^^'^ vessels of the face are more numerous than those of the scalp, inose from the eyelids and conjunctivae terminate partly in the submaxillary, out mainly in the parotid glands. The vessels from the posterior part of tho Cheek also pass to the parotid glands, while those from the anterior portion of tbe cheek, the side of the nose, the upper lip, and the lateral portions of the lower hp terminate m the submaxillary glands. The deeper vessels from tne temporal and zygomatic fossae pass to the internal maxillary and upper aeep cervical glands. The deeper vessels of the cheek and lips terminate, iiiie the superficial, m the submaxillary glands. Both superficial and deep vessels of the central part of the lower lip run to the suprahyoid glands. 3d