OS INNOMINATUM 325 immediately below the crest; lower down, from without inwards, the Obturator externus, the Adductor brevis, and the upper part of tlie Gracilis take origin. The 'posterior stirface, convex from above downwards, concave from side to side, is smooth, and forms part of tlie anterior wall of the pelvis. It gives origin to the Levator ani and Obturator internus, and attachment to the pubo- prostatic hgaments and to a few muscular fibres prolonged from the bladder. The upper border presents a prominent tubercle, wliich projects forwards, the pubic spine (tuberculum pubicum); the outer pillar of the external abdominal ring and Poupart's ligament are attached to it. Passing upwards and out- wards from the pubic spine is a well-defined ridge, forming a part of the linea Uio-pectinea which marks the brim of the true pelvis : to it are attached a portion of the conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis, Gimbernat's ligament and the triangular fascia of the abdomen. Internal to the spine of the os pubis is the crest, which extends from this process to tlie inner extremity of tlie bone. It affords attacliment to tlie conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis, and to the Rectus and Pyramidalis. The point of junction of the crest with the inner border of the bone is called the angle ; to it, as well as to the symphysis, the internal piUar of the external abdominal ring is attached. The internal border is articular ; it is oval, covered by eight or nine transverse ridges, or a series of nipple-hke processes arranged in rows, separated by grooves ; they serve for the attachment of a thin layer of cartilage, placed between it and the central fibro-cartilage. The outer border presents a sharp margin, which forms part of the circumference of the obturator foramen and affords attachment to the obturator membrane. The ascending: or superior ramus (ramus superior oss. pubis) extends from the body to the point of junction of the pubis \nth the Uium, and forms the upper part of the circumference of the obturator foramen. It presents for examination superior, inferior, and posterior surfaces, and an outer extremity. The superior surface presents a continuation of the Uio-pectineal line, already mentioned as commencing at the pubic spine. In front of this line, the surface of bone is triangular in form, wider externally than internally, smooth, and is covered by the Pectineus. The surface is bounded externally by a rough eminence, eminentia ilio-pectinea, which serves to indicate the point of junction of the iUum and pubis, and below by a prominent ridge, the obturator crest (crista obturatoria), which extends from the cotyloid notch to the spine of the pubis. The inferior surface forms the upper boundary of the obturator foramen, and presents, externally, a broad and deep, oblique gi'oove, for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve ; and internally, a sharp margin which forms part of the circumference of the obturator foramen, and gives attachment to the obturator membrane. The posterior surface constitutes part of the anterior boundary of the true pelvis. It is smooth, convex from above downwards, and affords origin to some fibres of the Obturator internus. The outer extremity, the thickest part of the ramus, forms one-fifth of the acetabulum. The descending or inferior ramus (ramus inferior oss. pubis) is thin and flattened. It passes, outwards and dowmvards, becoming narrower as it descends and joins \nth the ramus of the ischium. Its anterior surface is rough, for the origin of muscles—the GraciUs along its inner border ; a portion of the Obturator externus where it enters into the formation of the Obturator foramen; and between these two, the Adductores brevis et magnus from within outwards. The posterior surface is smooth, and gives origin to the Obturator internus, and, close to the inner margin, to the Compressor urethrse. The inner border is thick, rough, and everted, especially in females. It presents two ridges, separated by an intervening space. The ridges extend downwards, and are continuous with similar ridges on the ramus of the ischium ; to the external is attached the fascia of CoUes, and to the internal the superficial layer of the triangular ligament of the uretlu-a. The outer border is thin and sharp, forms part of the circumference of the obturator foramen, and gives attachment to the obturator membrane. The acetabulum, or cotyloid cavity, is a deep, cup-shaped, hemispherical uepression, directed downwards, outwards, and forwards. It is formed internally by the pubis, above by the ilium, behind and below by the ischium ; a little less than two-fifths being contributed by the ilium, a little more than two