THE ORBITS 271 these are united by a vertical suture whicli terminates below at the front end of the spheno-maxillavy fissure. On the orbital process of the malar are the orifices of one or two canals wliich transmit the temporal and malar branches of the temporo-malar nerve. Between the roof and the outer wall, near the apex of the orbit, is the sphenoidal fissure. Through this fissure the third, the fourth, the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth nerves enter tlie orbital cavity, also some filaments from the cavernous plexus of tlie sympathetic and the orbital branches of the middle meningeal artery. Passing backwards througli tlie fissure are the ophthalmic vein and the recurrent branch from the lachrymal artery to the dura mater. The outer wall and the floor are separated posteriorly by the spheno-maxillary fissure wliich transmits the superior maxillary nerve and its temporo-malar branch, the infra-orbital vessels, and the ascending branches from Meckel's ganglion. The base of the orbit, quadrilateral in shape, is formed above by the supra- orbital arch of the frontal bone, in which is the supra-orbital notch or foramen for the passage of the supra-orbital vessels and nerve ; below by the malar and maxilla, united by the malo-maxillary stiture ; externally by the malar and the external angular process of the frontal joined by the fronto-malar suture; internally by the internal angular process of the frontal and the frontal process of the maxilla, the fronto-maxillary suture intervening. The apex, situated at the back of the orbit, corresponds to the optic foramen,* a short, circular canal, which transmits tlie optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. It will thus be seen that there are nine openings communicating with each orbit—viz. : the optic foramen, sphenoidal fissure, spheno-maxillary fissure, supra-orbital foramen, infra-orbital canal, anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina, malar foramen, and the canal for the nasal duct. INTERIOR OF THE SKULL In order to study the interior of the skuU the skull-cap should be removed hj a saw-cut carried round the cranium about the level of the frontal eminences and the upper limits of the squamous sutures, cutting the occipital bone about an inch above the external protuberance. Inner Surface of the Skull-cap The inner surface of the skull-cap is concave and presents depressions for the convolutions of the cerebrum, together with numerous furrows for the lodgment of branches of the meningeal arteries. Along the middle line is a longitudinal groove, narrow in front, where it commences at tlie frontal crest, but broader behind ; it lodges the superior longitudinal sinus, and its margins afford attachment to the falx cerebri. On either side of it are several depressions for the Pacchionian bodies, and at its back part, the openings of the parietal foramina when these are present. It is crossed, in front, by the coronal suture, and behind by the lambdoid, whilst the sagittal lies in the mesial plane between the parietal bones. Upper Sttrface ov the Base op the Skull The upper surface of the base of the skuU or floor of the cranial cavity (fig. 342) presents three fossae, called the anterior, middle, and posterior cranial fossae. Anterior fossa.—The floor of the anterior fossa is formed by the orbital plates of the frontal, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and the lesser wings and front part of the body of the sphenoid ; it is limited behind by the posterior borders of the lesser wings of the sphenoid and by the anterior margin * Some anatomists describe the apex of the orbit as corresponding with the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure. It seems better, however, to adopt the statement in the text, since the muscles of the eyeball take origin around the optic foramen, and diverge from it to the globe of the eye.