256 OSTEOLOGY ramus : it affords attachment to the Depressor labii inferioris and Depressor anguli oris ; the Platysma is attached below it. The internal surface (fig. 330) is concave from side to side, and presents, near tlie lower part of the symphysis, a pair of laterally placed tubercles, termed the genial or mental spines (spinas mentales), which give origin to the Genio-hyo-glossi. Immediately below these is a second pair of spines, or more frequently a median ridge or impression, for the origin of the Genio- hyoid muscles. In some cases the mental spines are fused to form a single eminence, in others they are absent and their position is indicated merely by an iiTcgularity of the surface. Above the mental spines a median foramen and furrow are sometimes seen ; they mark the line of union of the halves of the bone. Below the mental spines, on either side of the middle Une, is an oval depression for the attachment of the anterior belly of the Digastric. Extending upwards and backwards on either side from the lower part of the symphj'sis is the inter7ial oblique line or mylo-hyoid ridge (linea mylo- hyoidea) which gives origin to the Mylo-hj-oid ; at its posterior end, near the alveolar margin, it gives origin to a small part of the Superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and attachment to the pterygo-mandibular ligament. Above the anterior part of this ridge is a smooth triangular area against Fig. 329.—Mandible. Outer surface. Side view. Coronoid process Condyle Mental process' which the sublingual gland rests, and below the hinder part of the ridge is an oval fossa for the submaxillary gland. • , ^ • , n a The superior or alveolar border, wider behmd than m front., is hoilowecl into cavities, for the reception of the teeth ; these cavities are sixteen ni number, and vary in depth and size according to the teeth which tliey contain, io its outer lip, on either side, the Buccinator is attached as far fore-ard as the first molar tooth. The inferior border is rounded, longer than the superior, and thicker in front than behind ; at the point where it joins the lower border of the ramus a shallow groove, for the facial artery, may be present. The perpendicular portion, or ramus (ramus mandibul^) is quadrilateial in shape, and presents for examination two surfa^ces, four borders, «nd tAvo processes. The external surface (fig. 329) is fiat and marked by oblique nd^es at its lower part; it gives attachment throughout nearly the whole of its extent to the Masseter.^ Tiie internal surface (^g. 330) presents about its cen re ?he oblique apemcre of the inferior denial cajml (foramen mandibulare for the passage of the inferior dental vessels and ner^-e. The margm of this open ngTs iiTeaular; it presents in front a promment ridge surmounted bx a^sSspinrthe I mjt^la mandibul^. wh\c\x gives attachment to the spheno- maSuiriikamentT at its lower and back part is a notch from .Jich t^h mylo-hyoid groove runs obliquely dowmxards and forxxards, and lodges tlio