DEVELOPMENT OF URINARY AND GENERATIVE ORGANS 175 or lobules and the lobulated condition of the Iddneys exists iov some time after birth while traces of it may be found even in the adult. The kidney of the ox •uid many other animals remains lobulated throughout life. The Urethra.—In the female the urethra is formed from the upper part ot tlie uro<^emtal sinus, viz. that part which hes above the openings of the Wolffian and MuUerian ducts. The portion of the sinus below these opemngs becomes gradually shortened, and is ultimately opened out to form the vestibule, and in this manner the urethra and vagina come to open separately on the surface. Wood-Jones let^ards the female urethra as ' the cloacal remnant in its simplest form, and ijolnts out that it does not remain tubular throughout foetal Ufe, but is for a time ' obUterated more or less completely by the proliferation of the vaginal bulbs. Developmentally considered, the male urethra consists of two parts : (1) the prostatic and membranous portions, which are derived from the urogenital sinus and correspond to the whole of the female urethra; (2) the penile portion, which is formed by the fusion of the inner genital folds (see below). _ , f t i The Prostate Gland originally consists of two separate portions, each ot which arises as a series of diverticular buds from the epithelial lining of the urogenital sinus, between the third and fourth months. These buds become tubular, and form the glandular substance of the two lobes, which ultimately meet and fuse behind the urethra and also extend on to its ventral aspect. The third or middle lobe is formed as an extension Fig. 240.—Tail end of human embryo, from eight and a half to nine weeks old. (From model by Keibel.) Ureter Wolffian duct Miillerian dud ^ Bladder Symphysis pubis Glans penis Urethra Vertebral column of the lateral lobes between the common ejaculatory ducts and the bladder. Skene's ducts in the female urethra are regarded as the homologues of the prostatic glands. The glands of Cowper in the male, and of Bartholin in the female, also arise as diverticula from the epithelial lining of the urogenital sinus. The Urinary Bladder. —The trigone of the bladder is formed from the upper part of the urogenital sinus (page 161) ; the remainder of the viscus is devel- oped from the part of the cloaca which hes above the sinus (fig. 239). The bladder is at first tubular in shape, its canal being continuous with that of the allantois, but after the second month its cavity expands to form a sac, from the summit of which the tube of the allantois extends to the umbilicus ; this tube undergoes obliteration to form the fibrous cord of the urachus. In some cases the allantoic canal remains patent, and urine may escape by it at the umbilicus. If the urethra be looked upon as the remnant of the cloaca, then the bladder, with the exception of the trigone, must be regarded as being developed by a dilatation of the proximal part of the allantois. The External Organs of Generation (fig. 241), Uke the internal, pass during development through an indifferent stage in which there is no distinction of sex. It is therefore necessary to describe this stage, and then follow the development of the female and male organs respectively. As already stated (page 161), the cloacal membrane, which is composed of ectoderm and entoderm, originally reaches from the umbiHcus to the tail. The mesoderm around the cloacal chamber gradually extends between the layers of the membrane, stopping short, however, round the margins of the entodermal cloaca, so that the bilaminar cloacal membrane is limited to this part. About the fifth week a prominence, the genital tubercle, arises in front of the cloacal membrane, while at the sides the edges of the mesoderm are elevated to form the labia-scrotal or outer genital folds. Along the under surface of the genital tubercle the ectoderm is thickened, and at the apex of the tubercle projects forwards as an epithelial horn. In this ectodermal