NERVOUS TISSUE 55 with those of nnotlier neuron existed, aitliougli the close relationship of these jirocesses permitted pliysiologieal functional continuity. With improved methods of staunng and impregnation of nerve-cells and theii- processes, the neuron theory has gamed ground and is now accepted by the majority of anatomists. On the other hand, it is maintained by Bethe, Apathy and others that the nervous system is made up of a network of nem-o- fibrillsc which is continuous throughout the whole nervous system, is not confined to the neurons, and can give rise to new axons independent of nerve-cells. THE VASCULAR SYSTEM Fig. 73.—Transverse section through a small artery and vein of the mucous membrane of the epiglottis of a child. Magnified about 350 cUameters. (Klein and Noble Smith.) The Vascular system, exclusive of its central organ the heart, is divided into four classes of vessels: the arteries, capillaries, veins, and lymphatics. The minute structure of these vessels will be briefly described here, tlie reader being referred to the body of the work for the details of their ordinary anatomy. Structure of arteries (fig. 73).—The arteries are composed of three coats: internal or endothelial coat {tunica intima of Kolliker) ; middle muscular coat {tunica media) ; and external connective tissue coat {tunica adventitia). The two inner coats together are very easily separated from the external, as by the ordinary operation of tying a ligature round an artery. If a fine string be tied forcibly upon an artery and then taken oS, the external coat will be found undivided, but the two inner coats are divided in the track of the hgature and can easily be further dissected from the outer coat. The inner coat {tunica intima) can be separated from the middle by a little maceration, or it may be stripped ofi in small pieces ; but, on account of its friability, it cannot be separated as a complete membrane. It is a fine, trans- parent, colourless structure which is highly elastic, and is commonly corrugated into longitudinal winkles. The inner coat consists of: (1) A layer of pavement endotheUum, the cells of which are poly- gonal, oval, or fusiform, and have very distinct round or oval nuclei. This endo- theUum is brought into view most dis- tinctly by staining with nitrate of silver. (2) A sub-endothehal layer, consisting of deUcate connective tissue with branched cells lying in the interspaces of the tissue ; in arteries of less than a twelfth of an inch in diameter the sub-endothelial layer consists of a single stratum of stellate cells, and the connective tissue is only largely developed in vessels of a consider- able size. (3) An elastic or fenestrated layer, which consists of a membrane con- taining a network of elastic fibres, having principally a longitudinal direction, and in which, under the microscope, small elongated apertures or perforations may be seen, giving it a fenestrated appear- ance. It was therefore called by Henle the fenestrated membrane. This membrane forms the chief thickness of the inner coat, and can be separated into several hiycrs, some of which present the appearance of a network of longitudinal elastic fibres, and others present a more membranous character, marked by pale hues having a longitudinal direction. The fenestrated membrane in microscopic arteries is a very thin layer ; but in the larger arteries, and especially in the aorta, it has a very considerable thickness. A. Artery, showing the nucleated cntlothelium, e, wliidi lines it: the vessel being contracted, the cndothclinl cells appear very tliick. Underneath the eiidothclinni is the wavy clastic Ultima. The chief part of the wall of the vessel is occupied by the circular muscle- coat in : the stall-shaped nuclei of the muscle-cells are well seen. Outside this L-s a, part of the adven- titia. This is composed of bundles of connective tissue fibres, shown in section, with the nuclei of the connective tissue corpuscles. The adventitia f;radu- ally merges into the simounding connective tissue. V. Vem showing a thin endothelial membrane, e, raised accidentally from the intima, which on account of its delicacy is seen as a mere lino on the media m. This latter is composed of a few circular unstriped muscle-cells, o. The adventitln, similar in struc- ture to that of an artery.