THE EAR 1049 Fig. 864.—Transverse section of a human semi- circular canal (after Riidinger). (Testut.) its arch forms a round projection. It describes about two-thu-ds of a circ e. Its outer extremity is ampullated, and opens mto the upper part of the vestibule : the opposite end joins with the upper part of the posterior canal to form the crus commune, whicli opens into the upper and inner part ot the ^^^The^^7)05/e?-ior semicircular canal (canalis semicircularis posterior), also vertical is directed backwards, nearly parallel to the posterior surface of the petrous bone ; it is the longest of the three, measurmg from 18 to 22 mm.; its lower or ampullated end opens into the lower and back part of the vestibule, its opposite opens into the crus commune already mentioned. The external or horizontal canal (canalis semicircularis lateralis) is the shortest of the three. It measures from 12 to 15 mm., and its arch is directed horizontally outwards and backwards ; thus each semicircular canal stands at right angles to the other two. Its ampullated end corresponds to the upper and outer angle of the vesti- bule, just above the fenestra ovalis, where it opens close to the ampuUary end of the superior canal; its opposite end opens by a distinct orifice at the upper and back part of the vestibule. ' The ex- ternal canal of one ear is very nearly in the same plane as that of the other ; while the superior canal of one ear is nearly parallel to the pos- terior canal of the other.' * The cochlea (figs. 865,866) bears some resemblance to a common snail-shell; it forms the anterior part of tlie laby- rinth, is conical in form, and placed almost horizontally m front of the vestibule ; its apex (cupula) is du-ected for- M'ards and outwards, with a slight inclination downwards, towards the upper and front part of the inner wall of the tympanum ; its base (basis cochleae) corresponds \^"ith the bottom of the internal audi- tory meatus, and is perforated by numerous apertures for the passage of the cochlear division of the auditory nerve. It measures about 5 mm. from base to apex, and its breadth across the base is somewhat greater (about 9 mm.). It consists of a conical-shaped central axis, the modiolus \ of a canal, the imier Mall of which is formed by the central axis, MOund spu'ally around it for two turns and three-quarters, from the base to the apex; and of a delicate lamina (the lamina spiralis ossea) which projects from the modiolus, and, foUo^dng the bindings of the canal, partially subdivides it into two. In the recent state a membrane, the membrana basilaris, stretclies from the free border of this lamina to the outer wall of the bony cochlea and completely separates the canal into two passages, which, however, communicate with each other at the apex of the modiolus by a small opening, named the kelicotrema. The modiolus is the central axis or pillar of the cochlea. It is conical in form, and extends from the base to the ajjex of the cochlea. Its base (basis 1. Bony semicircular canal. 2. Periosteum. 3. Membranous semi- circular canal, with 1, papillilorm prooes.ses on its internal surface. 5. Connective tLsiiue binding tlio membranous canal to tbc peri- osteum. 8, G. Fibrous hands muting tbe tree surface of the mem- branous canal to the periosteum. 7. Vessels. S. Endolymphatic space. !), 9. Perilymphatic space. * Crum Brown, Journal of Anatomy and Pliysiologtj, vol. viii.