519 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE PELVIS of the muscle are therefore often found extending up towards, and in some cases reaching, the pelvic brim, and on these the fascia is carried. It wall be evident that the fascia covering that part of the Obturator internus above the origin of the Levator ani is a comjiosite fascia and includes the following: (a) the obturator fascia; (b) the fascia of the Levator ani ; (c) degenerated fibres of origin of the Levator ani. This portion was formerly described as the pelvic fascia. The lower margin of the fascia covering the upper surface of the pelvic diaphragm is attached along the line of insertion of the muscle. At the level of a line extending from the lower part of the symphysis pubis to the spine of the ischium is a thickened A^ hitish band in this upper layer of the pelvic diaphragmatic fascia. It is termed the white line (arcus tendineus fasciae pelvis), and marks the line of attachment of the special fascia (pars endopelvina fasciae pelvis) which is associated ^vith the pelvic viscera. The fascia endopelvina is to be regarded as a tliickening of the subperitoneal tissue round the various pelvic viscera, to form for them fibrous coverings Fig. 512.—Side view of pelvic viscera of the male subject, showing the fascia endopelvina. which will be described later (see section on Splanclinology). It is attached to the fascia on the upper surface of the pelvic diaphragm along the wliite line, and has been subdivided in accordance with the ^dsce^a to which it is related. Tlius its anterior part, known as the vesical layer, forms the anterior and lateral ligaments of the bladder. Its middle part crosses the floor of the pelvis between the rectum and vesiculae seminales as the recto-vesical layer; in the female this is perforated by the vagina. Its posterior portion passes to the side of the rectum ; it forms a loose sheath for the rectum, but is firmly attached round the anal canal ; this portion is known as the rectal layer. The Levator ani (fig. 513) is a broad, thin muscle, situated on the side of the pelvis. It is attached to the inner surface of the side of the true pelvis, and descends to unite with its fellow of the opposite side and form the greater part of the floor of the pelvic cavity. It supports the viscera in this cavity and surrounds the various structures whicli pass through it. It arises, in ifont, from the posterior surface of the body of the pubis on the outer side