1003 THE NOSE cartilage of the septum, but separated from it below by a narrow fissure. Its posterior margin is attached to the nasal bone and the frontal process of the maxilla. Its inferior margin is connected by fibrous tissue with the lower lateral cartilage ; one surface is turned outwards, the other inwards towards the nasal cavity. ' The lower lateral cartilage (cartilago alaris major) is a thm, flexible plate, situated immediately below the preceding, bent upon itself in such a manner as to form the inner and outer walls of the naris of its own side. Tlie portion wliich forms the inner wall (crus mediate) is thicker than the rest, and loosely connected with the corresponding portion of the opposite cartilage, to form a part of the colunma ; the opposed inferior borders form, with the thickened integument and subjacent tissue, the septum mobile nasi. The part which forms the outer wall [crus laterale) is curved to correspond with the ala of the nose ; it is oval and flattened, narrow behind, where it is connected with the frontal process of the maxilla by a tough fibrous membrane, in Fig. 825.—Bones and cartilages of septum of which are foimd three or four nose. Right side, small cartilaginous plates, the cartilagines alares minores. Above, it is connected by fibrous tissue to the upper lateral cartilage and front part of the cartilage of the septum ; below, it faUs short of the margin of the nostril, the ala being completed by fatty and fibrous tissue covered by skin. In front, the lower lateral cartilages are separated by a notch which corresponds with the point of the nose. The cartilage of the septum (cartilago septi nasi) is somewhat quadrilateral in form, thicker at its margins than at its centre, and completes the separation between the nasal foss£e in front. Its anterior margin, thickest above, is connected with the nasal bones, and is continuous with the anterior margms of the two upper lateral cartilages ; below, it is connected to the inner portions of the lower lateral cartilages by fibrous tissue. Its posterior margin is connected with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid ; its inferior margin with the vomer and the palatal processes of the maxillae. It may be prolonged backwards (especially in children) for some distance between the vomer and perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, forming what is termed the processus sphenoidalis. The septal cartilage does not reach as far as the lowest part of the nasal septum. This is formed by the imier portions of the lower lateral cartilages and by the skin ; it is freely movable, and hence is termed the septum mobile nasi. The various cartilages are connected to each other, and to the bones, by a tough fibrous membrane, which allows the utmost facility of movement between them. The muscles of the nose have been described on pages 463, 464. The integument covering the dorsum and sides of the nose is thin, and loosely connected with the subjacent parts ; but where it forms the tip and the aloe of the nose it is thicker and more firmly adherent, and is furnished with a large number of sebaceous follicles, the orifices of which are usually very distinct. The arteries of the outer nose are the lateralis nasi from the facial, and the infei-ior artery of the septum from the superior coronary, which supply the alto and septum ; the sides and dorsum being supplied from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and the infra-orbital branch of the internal maxillary. The veins terminate in the facial and ophthalmic. The nerves for the muscles of the nose are derived from the facial, while the skin receives Ijranches from the infra-trochlear and nasal branches of the ophthalmic, and from the infra-orbital.