743 SrNTJSES OF THE DURA MATER structures are divided from each other by two processes of fibrous tissue. The junctiou of the inferior petrosal sinus with the internal jugular vein takes place superficial to the nerves, so that these latter lie a little internal to the venous channels in the foramen. The basilar sinus (plexus basUaris) consists of several interlacing veins between the layers of the dura mater over the basilar process of the occipital bone, which serve to connect the two inferior petrosal sinuses. They communicate with the anterior spinal veins. Emissary veins.—The emissary veins are vessels which pass through apertures in the cranial wall and estabUsh commimications between the sinuses inside the skull and the veins external to it. Some of these are always present, others only occasionally so. They vary much in size in different individuals. The principal emissary veins are the following. 1. A vein (emissarium mastoideum), almost always present, runs through the mastoid foramen and unites the lateral sinus with the posterior auricular or with the occipital vein. 2. A vein (emissarium Fig. 636.—Relation of structures in jugular foramen. parietale) passes through the parietal foramen and connects the superior longi- tudinal sinus with the veins of the scalp. 3. A plexus of minute veins (rete canahs hypoglossi) traverses the anterior condyloid foramen and joins the lateral sinus with the vertebral vein and deep veins of the neck. 4. An inconstant vein (emissarium condyloideum) passes through the posterior condyloid foramen and connects the lateral sinus with the deep veins of the neck. 5. A plexus of veins (rete foraminis ovaHs) imites the cavernous sinus with the pterygoid aaid pharyngeal plexuses through the foramen ovale. 6. Two or three small veins run through the foramen lacerum medium and connect the cavernous sinus with the pterygoid and pharyngeal plexuses. 7. There is sometimes a small vein passing through the foramen of Vesalius connecting the same parts. 8. A plexus of veins (plexus venosus caroticus internus) traverses the carotid canal and unites the cavernous sinus with the internal jugular vein. 9. A vein is transmitted through the foramen cJEcum and connects the superior longitudinal smus with the veins of the mucous membrane of the nose.