SYNDESMOLOGY 384 The Synovial Membranes, two in number, are jilaced one above, and the other below, the fibro-cartilage. The upper one, the larger and looser of the two, is continued from the margin of the cartilage covering the glenoid cavity and eminentia articularis on to the upper surface of the fibro-cartilage. The lower one passes from the under surface of tlie fibro- cartilage to the neck of the condyle, being prolonged a little farther downwards behind thair in front. Tlie interarticular cartilage is sometimes perforated in its centre, and the two synovial sacs then communicate with each other. The Stylo-mandibular Ligament (lig. stylomandibulare) (fig. 433) is a specialised band of the cervical fascia, which extends fi"om near the apex of the styloid process of the temporal bone to the angle and posterior border of the ramus of the mandible, between the Masseter and Internal pterygoid. This ligament separates the parotid from the submaxillary gland, and from its inner side some fibres of the Stylo-glossus take origin. Although usually classed among the ligaments of the jaM^ it can only be considered as accessory to the articulation. The nerves of this joint are derived from the auriculo-temporal and masse- teric branches of the inferior maxillary, the arteries from the temporal branch of the external carotid. Movements.—The movements permitted in this articulation are very extensive. Thus, the mandible may be depressed or elevated, or it may be carried forwards or backwards ; a sUght amount of lateral movement is also permitted. It must be borne in mind that there are two distinct joints in this articulation—one between the condyle and the interarticu- FiG. 434.—Vertical section of temporo- lar fibro-cartilage, and another mandibular articulation. between the fibro-cartilage and the glenoid fossa. '\\Tien the mouth is but sUghtly opened, as during ordinary conversation, the movement is confined to the lower of the two joints. On the other hand, when the mouth is opened more widely, both joints are concerned in the movement; in the lower joint, viz. that between the condyle and the fibro-cartilage, the movement is of a hinge-hke character, the condyle moving round a trans- verse axis on the fibro-cartilage. while in the upper joint the movement is of a gUding character, the fibro-cartilage. too-ether with the condyle, ghding forwards on to the emmentia articularis, round an axis which passes through the dental foramina. These two movements take place simultaneously, the condyle and fibro-cartilage move forwards on the eminence, and at the same time the condyle revolves on the fibro-cartUage. in the opposite movement of shutting the mouth the reverse action takes place ; tUc fibro-cartilage gUdes back, carrying the condyle ^vith it, and this at the same time revolves back to its former position. When the mandible is carried horizontally forwards, as in protruding the lower incisors in front of the upper, the movement takes place principaJlv in the upper compartment of the joint, the fibro-cartUagc and the condyle gliding forwards on the glenoid fossa. The grinding or chewing movement is produced by one condyle, with its fibro-cartilage, ghding ahernatel> forwards and backwards, wliile the other condyle moves snnultaneously in the opposite direction; at the same time the condyle undergoes a vertical rotation on the fibro-cartilage. One condyle advances and rotates, the other condyle recedes and rotates, in alternate succession. • . j k„ Plntv^mi the The mandible is defvcssed by its own weight, assisted by the Plat^sma tne Digastric, the Mylo-hyoid, and the Genio-hyoid It femed by the anter o part of the Temporal, Masseter, and Internal pterygoid It a ^ ".^^^^^ bv the simultaneous action of the External and Internal pterygoids, tl^^"J'^^^fi"^^^^ fibres of the Masseter and the anterior fibres of the Temporal ; it is c^^^.nu hachvards by the deep fibres of the Masseter and the posterior fibres of the Temporal.