584 MYOLOGY * That is, in the order of dissection of the sole of the foot. tendon passes behind the internal malleohis, in a groove, common to it and tlie Tibialis posticus, but separated from tlie latter by a fibrous septum each tendon being contained in Fig. 548.—Muscles of the back of the leg. Deep layer. FemarM I' Inner Condyle OuieA ' Cortdi//ei a special sheath lined by a separate synovial membrane. It passes obliquely forwards and outwards, superficial to tiie mternal lateral hga- ment, into the sole of the foot (fig. 550), where it crosses tlie tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis,* lying on its plantar aspect and receiving from it a strong tendinous slip. It then becomes expanded and is joined by the Flexor accessorius, and finally divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the bases of the last phalanges of the four lesser toes, each tendon passing through an opening in the corresponding tendon of the Flexor brevis digitorum oi)posite the base of the first phalanx. 'V Relations.—In the leg this muscle is in relation by its superficial surface with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and the deep transverse fascia which separates it fi'om the Soleus ; by its deep surface, with the tibia and Tibialis posticus. In the foot, it is covered by the Abductor hallucis and Flexor brevis digitorum, and crosses superficial to the Flexor longus hallucis. The Tibialis posticus (m. tibialis posterior) lies between the two preceding muscles, and is the most deeply seated of all the muscles in the leg. It commences above by two pointed pro- cesses, separated by an angular interval, through which the anterior tibial vessels pass forwards to the front of the leg. It arises from the M'hole of the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane, excepting its lowest part; from the outer portion of the posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia, between the commencement of the oblique line above and the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the shaft below; and from the upper two-thirds of the internal surface of the filjula; some fibres also arise from the deep transverse fascia, and from the intermuscular septa separating it fi'om the adjacent muscles on either side. In the lower fourth of the leg it passes in front of the Flexor longus digitorum and terminates in a tendon, which lies in a groove behind the inner malleolus, with the tendon of that muscle, but enclosed in a separate sheath ; it then passes through another sheath, over the internal lateral liga- ment into the foot, and then beneath the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament. The ten- don contains a sesamoid fibro-cartilage. as it runs under the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament. It is inserted into the tuberosity of the navicular bone, and gives olT fibrous expan- sions, one of which passes backwards to tiie sustentaculum tali of the os calcis. others forwards and outwards to the tiirce cuneiforms, the cuboid, and the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones.