MYOLOGY 588 * That is, in the order of dissection of tlie sole of the foot. The central portion, the thickest, is narrow behind and attaclied to the inuei- tubercle of the os calcis, posterior to the origin of the Flexor brevis digitoruin ; and becoming broader and thinner in front, divides near the heads of tlie metatarsal bones into five processes, one for each of the toes. Each of these processes divides opposite the metatarso-phalangeal articulation into two strata, supei'ficial and deep. The superficial stratum Ls inserted into the skin of the transverse sulcus which separates the toes from the sole. The deeper stratum divides into two slips which embrace the side of the Flexor tendons of the toes, and blend with the sheaths of the tendons, and laterally W'ith the transverse metatarsal ligament, thus forming a series of arclies through which the tendons of the short and long Flexors pass to the toes. The intervals left between the five processes allow the digital vessels and nerves, and the tendons of the Lumbricales to become superficial. At the point of division of the fascia, numerous transverse fibres (fascicuh trans- versi) are superadded, which serve to increase the strength of the fascia at this part by binding the processes together, and connecting them with the integument. The central portion of the plantar fascia is continuous with tlie lateral portions at either side, and sends upwards into the foot, at the lines of junction, two strong vertical intermuscular septa, broader in front than behind, which separate the middle from the external and internal plantar group of muscles ; from these again are derived thinner transverse septa which separate the various layers of muscles in this region. The upper surface of this fascia gives attachment behind to the Flexor brevis digitorum. The lateral portions of the plantar fascia are thinner than the central piece, and cover the sides of the foot. The outer portion covers the under surface of the Abductor minimi digiti; it is thin in front and thiclc behind, where it forms a strong band between the outer tubercle of the os calcis and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; it is continuous internally with the middle portion of the plantar fascia, and externally with the dorsal fascia. The inner portion is thin, and covers the under aspect of the Abductor haUucis ; it is attached behind to the internal annular ligament, and is continuous around the side of the foot with the dorsal fascia, and externally with the middle portion of the plantar fascia. The muscles in the j)lantar region of the foot may be divided into tlu-ee groups, in a similar manner to those in the hand. Those of the mternal plantar region are connected with the great toe, and correspond -n-ith those of the thumb ; those of the external plantar region are connected with the little toe, and correspond with those of the little fuiger ; and those of the middle plantar region are connected with the tendons intervening between the two former groups. But in order to facilitate the description of these muscles, it will be found more convenient to divide them into four layers, in the order in Mhich they are successively exposed. First Layer (fig. 549) Abductor liallucis. Flexor brevis digitorum. Abductor minimi digiti. The Abductor hallucis lies along the inner border of the foot and covers the origins of the plantar vessels and nerves. It arises from the inner tubercle on the under surface of the os calcis'; from the internal amiular ligament ; from the plantar fascia covering it; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the Flexor brevis digitorum. The fibres terminate in a tendon, which is inserted, together with the innermost tendon of the Flexor brexns hallucis, into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The Flexor brevis digitorum lies in the middle of the sole of the foot, immediately beneath * the central part of the plantar fascia, with which it is firmly united. Its deep surface is separated from the external plantar vessels and nerves by a thin layer of fascia. It arises by a narrow tendinous process, from the inner tubercle of the os calcis, from the central part of the