SYNDESMOLOGY 386 1, COSTO-CENTBAL ArTICDXATIONS (ArTICULATIONES CaPITULORUM) (fig. 435) These constitute a series of gliding or arthrodial joints, and are formed by the articulation of the heads of the ribs with the facets on the contiguous margins of the bodies of the thoracic vertebraj and with the intervertebral discs between them ; in the case of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs the cavity is formed by a single vertebra. The ligaments of the joints are : Capsular. Anterior Costo-vertebral or SteUate. Intcrarticular. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) surrounds and encloses the joint, being composed of short, strong fibres, which pass between the head of the rib and the circumference of the articular cavity formed by the niter- vertebral disc and the adjacent vertebra;. It is most distmct at the upper and lower parts of the articulation ; some of its upper fibres pass through the intervertebral foramen to the back of the intervertebral disc, while its posterior fibres are continuous with the middle costo-transverse ligament. The Anterior Costo-vertebral or Stellate Ligament (lig. capituli costa; radiatum) is a specialised part of the capsule, and comiects the anterior part of the head of each rib with the sides of the bodies of two vertebra?, and the intervertebral disc between them. It consists of three flat bundles of ligamentous fibres, which are attached to the anterior part of the head of the rib just beyond the articular surface. The superior bundle passes upwards to be connected with the body of the vertebra above ; the inferior one descends to the body of the vertebra below; and the middle one, the smallest and least distinct, passes horizontally inwards, to be attached to the mter- vertebral disc. The ligament is in relation, in front, v,ith the thoracic gangha of the sympathetic, the pleura, and, on the right side, Mith the vena azygos major • behind, with the intcrarticular Hgament and synovial membranes. In'the first costo-central joint, where the rib articulates with a single vertebra this ligament does not present a distinct division mto tlu-ee fasciculi; its fibres however, radiate, and are attached to the body of the last cervical vertebra, as weU as to the body of the first thoracic. In the costo-central articu- lations of the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, each of Avhich articulates with a single vertebra, the division does not exist; but the fibres of the ligament in each case radiate and are connected to the vertebra above, as well as to that with which the rib articulai.es. , ■ . a The Intcrarticular Ligament (lig. capituli costee interarticidare) is situated in the interior of the joint. It consists of a short band of fibres, flattened from above downwards, attached by one extremity to the sharp crest which separates the two articular facets on the head of the rib, and by tlie otliei to the intervertebral disc; it divides the johit into two cavities. In the first tenth, eleventh, and twelfth costo-central jomts, the interaiticula ligament does not exist; consequently, there is but one cavity. This ligainen is the homologue of the ligamailum conjugnk of some mammals, winch unites the heads of opposite ribs across the back of the intervertebral disc. Synovial Membranes.-There are two synovial membranes in each of the aSiions m which there is an. intcrarticular ligament one above and one below this structure : only one in those ]omts where there is a single cavity. 2 COSTO-TRANSVERSB ARTICULATIONS (ArTICULATIONES CoSTOTHANSVERSARI.^^) (fig. 436) The articular portion of the tubercle of the rib forms with the articular facet on the adjacent transverse process an arthrodial ]0"it- In the eleventh and twelfth ribs this articulation is wanting. The ligaments connecting these parts are : C„„gular Middle Costo-transverse (Interosseous). Anterior Costo-transverse. Posterior Costo-transverse. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) is a thin, membranous