MYOLOGY 606 upward and 14 mm. in a forward direction ; the width of the Bubcostal angle, at a level of 30 mm. below the raeso-metasternal articulation, is increased by 26 mm.; the umbilicus is retracted and drawn upwards for a distance of 13 mm. III. Muscles of the Abdomen The muscles of the abdomen may be divided, into two groups : 1, The antero-lateral muscles ; 2, The posterior muscles. 1. Antero-laterai, Muscles The muscles of this group are: Obliquus Externus. Transversalis. Obliquus Internus. Rectus. Pyramidalis. The superficial fascia of the abdomen consists, over the greater part of the abdominal wall, of a single layer of fascia which contains a variable amount of fat; but as this layer approaches the groin it is easily divisible into two, between which are found the superficial vessels and nerves and the superficial inguinal lymphatic glands. The superficial layer [fascia of Camber) is thick, areolar in texture, and contains in its meshes adipose tissue, the quantity of which varies in different subjects. Below, it passes over Poupart's ligament, and is continuous with the superficial fascia of the thigh. In the male, thif? fascia is continued over the penis and outer surface of the cord to the scrotum, where it helps to form the dartos. As it passes to the scrotum it changes its character, becoming thin, destitute of adipose tissue, and of a pale reddish colour, and in the scrotum it acquires some involuntary muscular fibres. From the scrotum it may be traced backwards to be continuous with the superficial fascia of the perinaeum. In the female, this fascia is continued into the labia majora. The deeper layer (fascia of Scarpa) is thinner and more membranous in character than the superficial layer, and contains a considerable quantity of yellow elastic fibres. It is loosely connected by areolar tissue to the apo- neurosis of the External oblique, but in the middle line it is more intimately adherent to the linea alba and to the symphysis pubis, and is prolonged on to the dorsum of the penis, forming the suspensory ligament; above, it is continuous with the superficial fascia over the rest of the trunk ; below and externally, it blends with the fascia lata of the thigh a little below Poupart s ligament • internally and below, it is continued over the perns and spermatic cord to the scrotum, where it helps to form the dartos. From the scrotum it may be traced backwards into continuity with the deep layer of the super- ficial fascia of the perineum [fascia of Colics). In the female, it is contmued into the labia majora and thence to the fascia of CoUes. , •, , The Obliquus externus abdominis (fig. 502) is situated on the side and fore part of the abdomen, bemg the largest and the most superficial of the three flat muscles in this region. It is broad, thm, and irregularly quadri- lateral, its muscular portion occupying the side, its aponeurosis the anterior wall of the abdomen. It arises, by eight fleshy digitations, from the external surfaces and lower borders of the lo^ver eight ribs ; these digitations are arranged in an oblique line which runs downwards and back^v^ards, the upper ones being attached close to the cartilages of the correspondmg ribs, the lowest to the apex of the cartilage of the last rib, the intermediate ones to the ribs at some distance from their cartilages. The five superior serrations mcrease in size from above downwards, and are received between correspondmg pro- cesses of the Serratus magnus ; the three lower ones diminish in size froin above downwards, receiving between them corresponding processes from the Latissi- muTdorsi. From these attachments the fleshy fibres proceed m various du-ections. Those froin the lowest ribs pass nearly J^rtically downjj.ir^^^^ to bo inserted into the anterior half of the outer hp of the crest of tj^j^^ "^n the middle and upper fibres, directed downwards and forwards ^^^^^^^ in an aponeurosis, opposite a line dra^-n from the prominence of the mnth costal cartilage to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The apoicurosis of the External obliqv. is a thin but stroii^^ ^ structure, the fibres of which are directed obliquely downwards andim^ards.