COMMON CAROTID ARTERY 625 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK The principal arteries of supply to the head and neck are the two common carotids ; they ascend in the neck and each divides into two branches, viz. (1) the external carotid, supplying the superficial parts of the head and face, and the greater part of tlie neck ; (2) the internal carotid, supplying to a great extent the parts within the cranial cavity. Common Carotid Arteries The common carotid arteries differ in length and in theii- mode of origin. The ricjht (a. carotis communis dextra) begins at tlie bifurcation of tiie innominate artery behind the sterno-clavicular joint and is confined to the neclv. The left (a. carotis communis sinistra) springs from tlie highest part of the arch of tlie aorta to the left of and on a plane posterior to the innominate artery, and therefore consists of a thoracic and a cervical portion. The thoracic portion of the left common carotid artery ascends from the arch of the aorta through the superior mediastinum to the level of the left sterno-cla\dcular joint, wliere it is continuous with the cervical portion. Relations,—In front, it is separated from the first piece of the sternum by the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the anterior portions of the left pleura and lung, the left inuommate vein, and the remains of the thymus gUxud ; behind, it hes on the trachea, oesophagus, left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and thoracic duct. To its right side below is the innominate artery, and above, the trachea, the inferior thyroid veins, and the remains of the thymus gland ; to its left side are the left pneumogastric and phrenic nerves, left pleura, and lung. The left subclavian artery is posterior and slightly external to it. The cervical portions of the two common carotids resemble each other so closely, that one description wiU apply to both (fig. 574). Each vessel passes obliquely upwards, from behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, to the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, opposite the lower border of the third cervical vertebra, where it divides into tlie external and internal carotid arteries. At the lower part of the neck the two common carotid arteries are separated from each other by a very small interval, which contains the trachea ; but at tlie upper part, the thyi'oid body, the larynx and pharynx project forwards between the two vessels, and give them the appearance of being placed farther back in this situation. The common carotid artery is contained in a sheath, which is derived from the deep cervical fascia and encloses also tlie internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve, the vein lying on the outer side of the artery, and the nerve between the artery and vein, on a plane posterior to both. On opening the sheath, these three structures are seen to be separated from one another, each being enclosed in a separate fibrous investment. Relations.—At the lower part of the neck the common carotid artery is very deeply se;itcd, being covered hy the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep cervical fascia, the Sterno-mastoid, Storno-hyoid, Sterno-th3Toid and Omo- hyoid muscles ; in the upper part of its course it is more superficial, being covered merely by the integument, the superficial fascia, Platysma, deep cervical fascia, and mner margin of the Sterno-mastoid. When the latter muscle is drawn backwards, the artery is seen to be contained in a triangular space, the carotid triangle, bounded behind by the Sterno-mastoid, above by the Stylo-hyoid and postenor belly of the Digastric, and below by the anterior belly of the Omo- nyoid. This part of the artery is crossed obliquely, from within outwards, by the sterno-mastoid artery; it is also crossed by the superior and middle thvi-oid veins which terminate in the internal jugular; descending on its sheath in iront IS the descendens hypoglossi nerve, this filament being joined by one or two branches from the cervical nerves, which cross the vessel from without mwards. Sometimes the descendens hypoglossi is contained within the sheath, ihe superior thyroid vein crosses the ai-tery near its termination, and the middle thyroid vein a little below the level of the" cricoid cartilage ; the anterior jugular vem crosses the artery just above the clavicle, but is separated from it by the fiterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. Behind, the artery is separated from s s