499 MUSCLES OF THE BACK The Suboccipital triangle.—Between the two Oblique muscles and the Rectus capitis posticus major a triangular interval exists, the suboccipital triangle. This triangle is bounded, above and internally, by the Rectus capitis posticus major; above and externally, by the Obhquus capitis superior; below and externally, by the Obliquus capitis inferior. It is covered in by a layer of dense fibro-fatty tissue, situated beneath the Complexus muscle. The floor is formed by the posterior occipito-atlantal hgament, and the posterior arch of the atlas. It contains the vertebral artery running in a deep groove on the upper surface of the posterior arch of the atlas, and the posterior primary division of the suboccipital nerve. Nerves.—The fourth and fifth layers of the muscles of the back arc supplied by the posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves. Actions.—When both the Spinales dorsi contract, they extend the thoracic portion of the vertebral column ; when only one contracts, it helps to bend it to one side. The Erector spinae, comprising the lUo-costahs and the Longissiraus dorsi with their accessory muscles, serves, as its name implies, to maintain the column in the erect posture ; it also serves to bend the trunk backwards when it is required to counterbalance the influence of any weight at the front of the body—as, for instance, when a heavy weight is suspended from the neck, or when there is any great abdominal distension, as in pregnancy or dropsy ; the pecuUar gait imder such cu'cumstances depends upon the vertebral column being drawn backwards, by the counterbalancing action of the Erector spinse muscles. The muscles which form the continuation of the Erector spinse upwards steady the head and neck, and fix them in the upright position. If the IHo-costalis and Longis- simus dorsi of one side act, they serve to draw down the chest and vertebral column to the corresponding side. The Cervicales ascendentes, taking their fixed points from the cervical vertebrre, elevate those ribs to which they are attached; taking their fixed points from the ribs, both muscles help to extend the neck ; while one muscle bends the neck to its own side. The Transversales cervicis, when both muscles act, taking their fixed points from below, bend the neck back- wards. The Trachelo-mastoids, when both muscles act, taking their fixed points from below, bend the head backwards; while, if only one muscle acts, the face is turned to the side on which the muscle is acting, and then the head is bent to the shoulder. The two Recti draw the head backwards. The Rectus capitis posticus major, owing to its obliquity, rotates the cranium, with the atlas, romid the odontoid process, turning the face to the same side. The Multifidus spinaj acts successively upon the different parts of the column: thus, the sacrum furnishes a fixed point from which the fasciculi of this muscle act upon the lumbar region; these then become the fixed points for the fasciculi moving the thoracic region, and so on throughout the entire length of the column; it is by the successive contraction and relaxation of the separate fasciculi of this and other muscles that the erect posture is preserved without the fatigue that would necessarily have been produced had this position been maintained by the action of a smgle muscle. The Multifidus spinse, besides preserving the erect position of the column, serves to rotate it, so that the front of the trunk is turned to the side opposite to that from which the muscle acts, this muscle being assisted in its action by the Obliquus externus abdominis. The Complexi draw the head directly backwards ; if one muscle acts, it draws the head to one side, and rotates it so that the face is turned to the opposite side. The Superior oblique draws the head backwards and to its own side. The Inferior oblique rotates the atlas, and with it the cranium, round the odontoid process, turning the face to the same side. The Semispinales, when the muscles of the two sides act together, nelp to extend the vertebral column; when the muscles of only one side act, tliey rotate the thoracic and cervical pai-ts of the column, turning the body to the opposite side. The Interspinales by approximating the spinous process help to extend the column. The Intertransversales approximate the transverse processes, M u-fiT *° *^ column to one side. The Rotatores spinsB assist the Multitidus spinte to rotate the vertebral column, so that the front of the trunk IS turned to the side opposite to that from which the muscles act. n.nfTfR'^^F°"""~'^^ surface forms produced by the muscles of the back are numerous fioi 1 1 • a ^^^^y^^ unless they are considered in systematic order. The most super- ciai layer influences to a certain extent the surface form, and at the same time reveals thl '^y^''^ beneath. The Trapezius at the upper part of the back, and in neci£, covers over and softens down the outline of the underlying muscles. Its anterior K K 2