APPLIED ANATOMY OF INTESTINE 1163 have been done for the removal of cancer of the rectum, and in these the peritoneal cavity has necessarily been opened. If, in these cases, the opening is plugged with antiseptic gauze until the operation is completed and then the edges of the wound m the peritoneum are accurately brought together with sutm-es, no evil result appears to follow. For cases of cancer of the rectum which are too low to be reached by abdominal section, and too high to be removed by the perineum, Ki-aske has devised an operation which goes by his name. The patient is placed on his right side and an incision is made from the last piece of the sacrum to the anus. The soft parts are now separated from the back of the sides of the sacrum and coccyx, and the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments are separated. The coccyx is removed, and if necessary a small piece of the sacrum, and the edges of the wound being now forcibly di-awn outwards, a considerable length of the rectum is brought into view, and the diseased portion can be removed, leaving the anal portion of the gut, if healthy. The two divided ends of the gut can sometimes be approximated and sutured together, the posterior part being left open for diainage. The colon frequently requires opening in cases of intestinal obstruction, and by some surgeons this operation is performed in cases of cancer of the rectum as soon as the disease is recognised, in the hope that the symptoms may be reheved by removing the irritation produced by the passage of faecal matter over the diseased surface. The operation of colostomy may be performed either in the inguinal or lumbar region ; but inguinal colostomy has in the present day entkely superseded the lumbar operation. The main reason for preferring this operation is that a spur-shaped process of the mesocolon can be formed, which prevents any fascal matter finding its way past the artificial anus, and the greater ease in maintaining cleanliness. The pelvic colon being entirely surrounded by peritoneum, a coil can be dra^\n out of the wound and opened, leaving the attachment of the mesocolon to fonn a spm-, much as it does in an artificial anus caused by sloughing of the intestine after a strangulated hernia, and this prevents any ftecal matter finding its way from the gut above the opening into that below. The operation is performed by making an incision two or three inches in length from a point one inch internal to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, parallel to Poupart's hgament. The various muscular layers are cut through, and the peritoneum opened ; the pehic colon is now sought for, pulled out of the wound, and fixed by passing a needle threaded wth carbolised silk fu'st through the mesocolon close to the gut, and then through the abdominal wall. The wound is dressed, and about the second day the protruding coil of intestine is opened. The loose connective tissue roimd the rectum is occasionally the site of an abscess, the active focus of which, however, may be located elsewhere. This form of abscess may be described as the superior pelvic-reclal; it is placed above the pelvic diaphragm but beneath the peritoneum. The acute variety is generally due to ulceration or perforation of the bowel (possibly produced by a foreign body) above the level of attaclmient of the Levator ani. The abscess m.ay also occur above a stricture (simple or mahgnant) of the rectum ; occasionally it arises from suppuration around the prostate, and more rarely follows abscess of the vesiculfe seminales. Chronic abscesses also appear in the same region either from caries of the anterior surface of the sacrum or from caseation of the presacral lymphatic glands, whilst in other cases an abscess finds its way down into the pelvis from disease of the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the lumbar vertebras. The Liver The liver (hepar) is the largest gland in the body, and is situated in the upper and right parts of the abdominal cavity, occupying almost the whole of the right hypochondrium, the greater part of the epigastrium, and not uncommonly extending into the left hypochondi-ium as far as the mammary line. In the male it weighs from fifty to sixty ounces, in the female fi'om forty to fifty. It is relatively much larger in the foetus than in the adult, constitutiiig, in the former, about one-eighteenth, and in the latter, about one thirty-sixth of the entire body weight. Its greatest transverse measure- ment is from eight to nine inches. Vertically, near its lateral or riglit surface, it measures about six or seven inches, while its gi-eatest antero-posterior diameter is on a level with the upper end of the right kidney, and is from four to five inches. Opposite the vex'tebral column its measurement from before backwards is reduced to about three inches. Its consistence is that of a soft solid : it is, however, friable and easily lacerated ; its colour is a dark reddish- brown, and its specific gravity is 1-05. To obtain a correct idea of its shape it must be hardened in site, and it win then be seen to present the appearance of a wedge, the base of which is directed to the right and the thin edge towards the left. Symington describes its shape as that ' of a right-angled triangular prism Avith the right angle rounded off.'