PTERYGO-MANDIBULAR REGION 469 The Temporal (m. temporalis) (fig. 487) is a broad radiating muscle, situated at the side of tlie head, and occupymg the entne extent of the tempoSl fossa. It arises from the whole of the temporal fossa (except that poSi of it which is formed by the malar bone) and from the inner surface of the temporal fascia. Its fibres converge as they descend and termmate in a tendon; which is inserted into the mner surface, apex, and anterior boixler of the coronoid process, and the anterior border of the ramus of the mandible, nearly as far forwards as the last molar tooth. Relations —The Temporal is in relation by its superficial surface with the integunient, the Attrahens and AttoUens aui-iculam muscles, the temporal fascia, the superhcia temporal vessels, the auriculo-temporal nerve, the temporal branches of the facial and Zporo-malar nerves, the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis. « ^;yf .'P^' ^'^^ Masseter. By its deep surface, it is in relation with the tempora fossa, the External ntervoid and part of the Buccinator muscles, the internal maxil ary artery, and its deep temporal branches, the deep temporal nerves, and the buccal vessels and nerve Behind the tendon are the masseteric vessels and nerve. Its anterior border is separated from the malar bone by a mass of fat. Ilerves.—Both muscles are supplied by the inferior maxillary nerve. X. Ptbrygo-Mandibtjlar Region (fig. 488) Pterygoideus externus. Pterygoideus internus. The Pterygoideus externus is a short, thick muscle, somewhat conical m form which extends almost horizontally between the zygomatic fossa and the condyle of the mandible. It arises by two heads, separated by a shght mterval: the Ufper from the inferior portion of the external surface of the greater wing Fig. 488.—^The Pterygoid muscles; the zygomatic arch and a portion of the ramus of the jaw have been removed. of the sphenoid and from the pterygoid ridge which separates the zygomatic from the temporal fossa; the lower from tlie outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. Its fibres pass liorizontally backwards and outwards, to be inserted into a depression in front of the neck of the condyle of the mandible, and into the front of the interarticular filn-o-cartilage of the temporo-mandibular articulation.