SPLANCHNOLOGY 1166 The posterior surface (fig. 961) is rounded and broad behind the right lobe, but narrow on the left. Over a large part of its extent it is not covered by peritoneum ; this uncovered portion is about three inches broad at its widest part, and is in direct contact with the Diaphragm. It is marked off from tlie upper surface by the hne of reflection of the upper or anterior layer of the coronary ligament, and from the under surface by the line of reflection of the lower layer of the coronary hgament. Tlie central part of the posterior surface presents a deep concavity which is moulded on the vertebral column and crura of the Diaphragm. To the right of tliis the inferior vena cava is lodged in an indentation in the liver substance, lying between the uncovered area and the Spigelian lobe. Close to the right of this indentation and immediately above the renal impression is a small triangular depressed area {impressio suprarenalis), the greater part of which is devoid of peritoneum ; it lodges the right suprarenal gland. To the left of the inferior vena cava is the Spigelian lobe, wMch lies between the fissure for the vena cava and the fissure for the ductus venosus. Its lower end projects and forms part of the posterior boundary of the transverse fissure ; on the right, it is connected mth the Fig. 961.—The liver. Posterior surface. (Drawn from His' model.) Suprarenal impression 1 Oesophageal groove Fismre of the ductus venosus , .,, Tuber uapiUare Umbilical fissure under surface of the right lobe of the liver by the caudate lobe, and on the left it presents a tubercle, the tuber papillare. Its posterior surface rests upon the Diaphragm, being separated from it merely by the upper part of the lesser sac of the peritoneum. To the left of the fissure for the ductus venosus is a groove in which hes the antrum cardiacum of the oesophagus. The inferior border is thin and sharp, and marked opposite the attachment of the falciform Ugament by a deep notch, the wmbilical iwtch, and opposite tlie cartilage of the ninth rib by a second notch for the fundus of the gaU-bladder. In adult males tliis border generaUy corresponds A\ath the lower margm ot t]ie thorax in the right nipple Une ; but in women and chUdren it usuaUy projects below the ribs. , , , , ,^ The left extremity of the liver is thin and flattened from above downwards. Fissures (fig. 961).—As already described, five fissures are seen upon tiie under and posterior surfaces of the Uvor. They are, the umbihcal fissure and tlie fissure for the ductus venosus, forming together the longitudinal bssuie the transverse fissure ; the fissure for the gall-bladder ; and the fissure tor tne inferior vena cava.