191 LUMBAR VERTEBRA inferior articular processes are weU defined, projecting respectively upwards iiid downwards from the junctions of pedicles and lammse. The facets on I he superior processes are concave, and look backwards and inwards ; those on the inferior are convex, and are directed forwards and outwards. Tlie former are wider apart than the latter, smce in the articulated column the inferior articular processes are embraced by the superior processes of the subjacent vertebra. The transverse processes are long, slender, and directed transversely outwards in the upper three lumbar vertebrte ; they incUne a little upwards in the lower two. In the upper three vertebrae they arise from the junctions of the pedicles and the laminae, but in the lower two they are set further forward and arise from the pedicles and posterior parts of the bodies. They are situated in front of the articular processes instead of behind them as in the thoracic vertebrae, and are homologous with the ribs. Of the three tubercles noticed in connection with the transverse processes of the lower thoracic vertebrte, the superior one is comiected in the lumbar region with the back part of the superior articular process, and is named the mamillary process ; the inferior is situated at the back part of the base of the transverse process, and is called the accessory process (fig. 256). Although in man these are comparatively small, in some animals they attain considerable size, and serve to lock the vertebrae more closely together. Tlie external tubercle becomes the transverse process. The fifth lumbar vertebra is characterised by its body being much thicker in front than behind, which accords with the prominence of the sacro- vertebral articulation ; by the smaller size of its spinous process ; by the wide interval between the inferior articular processes ; and by the thick- ness of its transverse processes, which spring from the body as well as from the pedicles. Sacral and Coccygeal Vertebb.s! The sacral and coccygeal vertebrae consist at an early period of Ufe of nine separate segments which are united in the adult, so as to form two bones, five entering into the formation of the sacrum, four into that of the coccyx. Sometimes the coccyx consists of five bones; occasionally the number is reduced to three. The Sacrttji The sacrum (os sacrum) is a large, triangular bone, situated in the lower part of the vertebral column and at the upper and back part of the pelvic cavity, where it is inserted Mke a wedge between the two innominate bones; its upper part or base articulates Math the last lumbar vertebra, its apex with the coccyx. The sacrum is cui'ved upon itself, and placed very obhquely, its base projecting - forwards, and forming the prominent sacro-vertehral angle Avhen articulated with the last lumbar vertebra; its central part is projected backwards, so as to give increased capacity to the pelvic cavity. It presents for examination an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral surfaces, a base, an apex, and a central canal. The anterior surface (facies pelvina) (fig. 257) is concave from above doAvn- wards, and sUghtly so from side to side. In the middle are seen four transverse ridges, indicating the original division of the bone into five separate pieces. The portions of bone intervening between the ridges correspond to the bodies of the vertebrae. The body of the first segment is of large size, and in form resembles that of a lumbar vertebra ; the succeeding ones diminish from above downwards, are flattened from before backwards, and curved so as to accommodate themselves to the form of the sacrum, being concave in front, convex behind. At the ends of the ridges are seen the anterior sacral foramina (foramina sacraUa anteriora), four in number on either side, somewhat rounded in form, diminishing in size from above downwards, and directed outwards and forwards : they give exit to the anterior primary divisions of the sacral nerves and entrance to the lateral sacral arteries. External to these foramina is the lateral mass (pars lateralis), consisting of separate segments at an early period of Hfe ; in the adult, these become blended mth the bodies and with each other. Each lateral mass is traversed by four broad, shallow grooves, which lodge the anterior divisions of the sacral nerves as