327 OS INNOMINATUM frequently in the male than in the female), one for the tuberosity of the ischium, one for the symphysis pubis (more frequent in the female than in the male), and one or more for the V-shaped piece at the bottom of the acetabulum. The centres appear in the following order : in the lower part of the ilium, immediately above the sciatic notch, about the eighth or ninth week of foetal life ; in the body of the ischium, about the third month ; in the body of the pubis, between the fourth and fifth months. At birth, the three primary centres are quite separate, the crest, the bottom of the acetabulum, the ischial tuberosity, and the rami of the ischiiun and pubis being still cartilaginous. By the seventh or eighth year, the rami of the pubis and iscliium are almost completely united by bone. About tlie thirteenth or fourteenth year, the three primary centres have extended their growth into the bottom of the acetabidum, and are there separated from each other by a Y-shaped portion of cartilage, which now presents traces of ossification, often by two or more centres. One of these, the os acelahuU, appears about the age of twelve, between the ilium and pubis, and fuses with them about the age of eighteen ; it forms the pubic part of the acetabulum. The ilium and ischiimi then become joined, and lastly the pubis and ischium, through the intervention of this Y-shaped portion. At about the age of puberty, ossification takes place in each of the remaining portions, and they join with the rest of the bone between the twentieth and twenty-fifth years. Separate centres are frequently found for the pubic and ischial spines, and for the crest and angle of the pubis. Articulations.—The os innominatimi articulates with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the sacrum and femur. The Pelvis The Pelvis, so called from its resemblance to a basin, is stronger and more massively constructed than the walls of the cranial or thoracic cavities ; it is a bony ring, interposed between the movable vertebrte of the spinal column which it supports, and the lower limbs upon which it rests. It is composed of four bones : the two ossa innominata laterally and in front; and the sacrum and coccyx behind. The pelvis is divided by an oblique plane passing through the prominence of the sacrum, the linea dio-pectinea, and the upper margin of the symphysis pubis, into the false and true pelvis. The circumference of this plane is termed the pelvic brim. The false pelvis (pelvis major) is the expanded portion of the cavity situated above and in front of the pelvic brim. It is bounded on each side by the ilium; in front it is incomplete, presenting a wide interval between the spinous processes of the ilia on either side, which is filled up in the recent state by the parietes of the abdomen ; behind, in the middle line, is a deep notch. Its walls support the intestines, and transmit part of their weight to the anterior wall of the abdomen; the term false pelvis is therefore incorrect, and the space ought more properly to be regarded as part of the hypogastric and iliac regions of the abdomen. The true pelvis (pelvis minor) is that part of the pelvic cavity which is situated below and beliind the pelvic brim. It is smaller than the false pelvis, but its bony walls are more perfect. For convenience of description, it is divided into an inlet bounded by the superior circumference, an outlet bounded by the inferior circumference and a cavity. The superior circumference forms the brim of the pelvis, the included space being called the inlet (apertura pelvis superior) (fig. 381). It is formed laterally by the ilio-pectineal lines, in front by the crests of the pubic bones, and behind by the anterior margin of the base of the sacrum and sacro-vertebral angle. The inlet of the pelvis is somewhat heart-shaped, obtusely pointed in front, diverging on either side, and encroached upon behind by the projection forwards of the promontory of the sacrum. It has three principal diameters : f\ntero-posterior, transverse, and oblique. The antero-posierior or conjugate diameter extends from the sacro-vertebral angle to the symphysis pubis ; its average measurement is four inches in the male, four and three-quarters in the female. The transverse, diameter extends across the greatest width of the inlet, from the middle of the brim on one side to the same point on the opposite ; its average measurement is four and a haU inches in the male, five and a