1045 THE EAR Ligaments of the Ossicula.—These small bones are connected with each other, and with the walls of the tympanum, by ligaments, and moved by small muscles. The articular surfaces of the malleus and incus, and the orbicular process of the incus and head of the stapes, are covered with cartilage and connected together by delicate capsular ligaments, lined by synovial membrane. The lifxaments connecting the ossicula with the walls of the tympanum are five in°number: three for the malleus, one for the incus, and one for the stapes. . The anterior ligament of the malleus (lig. mallei anterius) was tormeriy described as a muscle [Laxator tympani). It is noAv, however, believed by most observers to consist of ligamentous fibres only. It is attached by one extremity to the neck of the malleus, just above the processus gracilis, and by tile other to the anterior wall of the tympanum, close to the Glaserian fissure, some of its fibres being prolonged tlirough the fissure to reach the spine of the sphenoid. The superior ligament of the malleus (Hg. mallei superius) is a delicate, round bundle of fibres which descends perpendicularly from the roof of the epitympanic recess to the head of the malleus. The external ligament of the malleus (lig. mallei lateralis) is a triangular plane of fibres passmg from the posterior part of the notch in the tympanic ring (incisura Rivini) to the head of the malleus. The posterior ligament of the incus (lig. incudis posterius) is a short, thick, ligamentous band \vhich connects the extremity of the short process of the incus to the fossa incudis in the epitympanic recess. The vestibular surface and the circumference of the foot of the stapes are covered with hyaline cartilage; that encircling the base is attached to the margin of the fenestra ovalis by a fibrous ring, the annular ligament of the stapes (lig. annulare baseos stapedis). A superior ligament of the incus (lig. incudis superius) has been described, but it is little more than a fold of mucous membrane. The muscles of the tympanum are two : Tensor tympani. Stapedius. The Tensor tympani, the larger, is contained in the bony canal above the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube, from which it is separated by the processus cochleariformis. It arises from the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube and the adjoining part of the greater wdng of the sphenoid, as well as from the osseous canal in which it is contained. Passing backwards through the canal, it terminates in a slender tendon which enters the tympanum, makes a sharp bend outward round the extremity of the processus cochleari- formis, and is inserted into the handle of the malleus, near its root. It is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion. The Stapedius arises from the side of a coniqal cavity, hollowed out of the interior of the pyramid ; its tendon emerges from the orifice at the apex of the pyramid, and, passing forwards, is inserted into the posterior surface of the neck of the stapes. Its surface is aponeurotic, its interior fleshy ; and its tendon occasionally contains a slender bony spine, which is constant in some mammalia. It is suppHed by a branch of the facial nerve. Actions.—The Tensor tympani draws the membrana tympani inwards, and thus increases its tension. The Stapedius dra^\■s the head of the stapes backwards, and thus causes the base of the bone to rotate on a vertical axis drawn through its own centre ; the back part of the base is pressed inwards towards the vestibule, while the fore part is drawn from it. It ^irobably compresses the contents of the vestibule. The mucous membrane of the tympanic cavity is continuous with that of the pharynx, through the Eustachian tube. It invests the ossicles, and the muscles and nerves contained in the tympanic cavity ; forms the internal layer of the membrana tympani, and the outer layer of the membrana tympani secundaria, and is reflected into the mastoid antrum and cells, Avhich it lines throughout. It forms several vascular folds, which extend from the A^-aUs of the tympanum to the ossicles ; of these one descends from the roof of the tympanum to the head of the malleus and upper margin of the body of the incus, a second invests the Stapedius muscle : other folds invest the chorda