THE PENIS 1213 in the mesial plane a partition or septum (septum penis). This is thick and complete behind, but is imperfect in front, where it consists of a series of vertical bands arranged like the teeth of a comb ; it is Fig. 1006.—The constituent cavernous cylinders of therefore named the septum the penis. The glans and anterio)- part of the y ■/■ ytniJ corpus spongio.suui are detached irom the corpora 'pectmijorme. „^-^„^ cavernosa and turned to one side. The corpus spongiosum (corpus cavernosum urethraj) contains the urethra. BeMnd, it is expanded to form the urethral bulb (bulbus urethrje), and lies in apposition with the superficial layer of the trian- gular ligament, from which it receives a fibrous investment. The urethra enters the bulb nearer to the upper than to the ■ lower surface. On the latter there is a depressed median raphe (sulcus bulbi), from which a thin fibrous septum projects into the substance of the bulb and divides it imperfectly into two lateral lobes or hemispheres. The portion of the corpus spongiosum in front of the bulb lies in a groove on the under surface of the conjoined corpora cavernosa. It is cylindrical in form and tapers slightly from behind forwards. Its anterior extremity is expanded in the form of an obtuse cone, flat- tened from above downwards. This expansion, termed the glans penis, is moulded on the rounded ends of the corpora cavernosa, extending further on their upper than on their lower surfaces. At the summit of the glans is the slit-like vertical urethral orifice or meatus (orificium urethrse externum). The circumference of the base of the glans forms a rounded projecting border, the corona glandis, overhanging" Fig. 1007.—Transverse section of the penis. Dorsal veins Dorsal artery and nerve Integument Fibrous envelope Corjiora cavernosa a deep sulcus (sulcus retroglan- dularis), behind which is the neck (coUum penis) of the penis. For descriptive purposes it is convenient to divide the penis into three regions : the root, the body, and the extremity. The root (radix penis) of the penis is triradiate in form, con- sisting of the diverging crura, one on either side, and the mesial bulb of the corpus spongiosum. Each crus is covered by the Erector penis, while the bulb is surrounded by the Ejaculator urinse. The root of the penis lies in the perinajum between the superficial layer of the triangular ligament and the fascia of Colles. In addition to being attached to the pubic rami and triangular ligament, it is bound to the Urethra Corp us spmiijiosum