SPLANCHNOLOGY 1164 Surfaces.—The liver possesses five surfaces, viz. superior, inferior, anterior, posterior, and lateral. A sharp, well-defined margin divides the inferior from the anterior and lateral surfaces, but tlie other surfaces are separated fi'ora one another by thick, rounded borders. The superior and anterior surfaces are attached to the Diaphragm and anterior abdominal wall by a triangular or falciform fold of peritoneum, the suspensory or falciform ligament, in the free margin of wliich is a rounded cord, the ligamentum teres or obliterated umbilical vein. The line of attachment of the falci- form ligament divides the hver into two parts, termed the right and left lobes, the right bemg much the larger. The inferior and posterior suifaces are divided into five lobes by five fissures, which are arranged in the form of the letter H. The left limb of the H marks on these surfaces the division of the liver into right and left lobes : it is known as the longitudinal fissure, and consists of two parts, viz. the umbilical fissure in front and the fissure for the ductus venosus beliind. The right limb of the H is formed in front by the fissure or fossa for the gall-bladder, and beliind by the fissure for the inferior vena cava ; these Uvo fissures are separated from one another by a band of liver-substance, termed the caudate lobe. The bar connecting the two limbs Fig. 959.—The liver. Superior and anterior surfaces. His' model.) (SUghtly modified from lateral ligament Left ligament of the H is the transverse or fortal fissure ; in front of it is the quadrate lobe, behind it the Spigelian lobe. The superior surface (fig. 959) comprises a part of both lobes, and, as a whole, is convex, and fits under the vault of the Diaphragm ; its central part, however, presents a shallow depression, which corresponds with the position of the pericardium on the upper surface of the Diaphragm. It is separatea from the anterior, posterior, and lateral surfaces by thick, rounded borders. Its left extremitv is separated from the under surface by a prominent sliarp margin. Except along the lines of attachment of the falciform hgament it is completely covered by peritoneum. . The anterior surface is large, triangular in shape, and comprises also a part of both lobes. It is directed forwards, and the greater part of it is m contact with the Diaphragm, which separates it on the right from the sixth to the tentu ribs and their cartilages, and on the left from the seventh and eighth costal cartilages. In the middle Une it lies behind the ensiform cartilage, and m the angle between the diverging rib cartilages of opposite sides is in contact with the abdominal wall. It is separated from the inferior surface by a sharp margin, and from the superior and lateral surfaces by thick rounded boi-ders It is completely covered by peritoneum except along the Une of attaciimenT; of the falciform ligament.