102 EMBRYOLOGY or yellowish areas. The umbilical cord is usually attached near the centre of the placenta but may be inserted anwhere between the centre and the margm. In some cases it is inserted into the membranes, i.e. the veZamentoMS insertion. From the attachment of the cord the larger branches of the urabihcal vessels radmte under the amnion, the veins being deeper and larger than the artei-ies. ihe remains of the vitelline duct and yolk-sac may be sometimes observed beneath the amnion, close to the cord, the former as an attenuated thread, the latter as a minute sac. ^ i i +1, On section, the placenta presents a soft, spongy appearance, caused by the greatly branched vilU ; surrounding them is a varying amount of materna blood giving the dark red colour to the placenta. Many of the larger viUi extend from the chorionic to the decidual surface, while others are attached to the septa which separate the cotyledons ; but the great majority hang free in the maternal sinuses, like the branches of a tree. i • The further growth of the embryo wiU be best understood from a descnption of the principal facts relating to the development of the chief parts of which the body consists. DEVELOPMENT OF THE PARIETES The Skeleton.-The skeleton is of mesodermal origin, and may be di^dded into (a) that of the trunk (axial skeleton), comprising the vertebral column, skuU, iibs, and stenuuu, and (h) that of the Umbs (appe-liculax^skelet^^^^^^^^ _ YiG 128 —Transverse section of a human embryo of the third week to show the differentiation of the prmiitive segment. (Kollmann.) The uotochord (fig. HI) is a temporary structure and forms a central axis, around which the segments of the vertebral column are de- veloped.* It is derived from the entoderm, and consists of a rod of cells, which lies on the ventral aspect of the neural tube and reaches from the anterior end of the mid- brain to the extremity of the tail. On either side of it is a column of paraxial meso- derm which di%ades into a number of more or less cubical segments, the primi- tive segments or frotovertebral somites (figs. 110, HI, 112). These are separated from one another by intersegmental septa and are arranged sym- metrically on either side of the neural tube and uoto- chord : to every^ segment a spinal nerve is ["distributed. At first each segment con- tains a central ca\-ity, the myoccel, but this is soon filled with a core of angular and spindle-shaped cells. The cells of the segment become differentiated into three groups, VZ^sSomMfSrSr . I„ .ho a,„phlo,«. th. .ot«ho,.l p„.to ..d fon.> the onl, ropre.enuli.o of . -kele... in that animal. ao, aorta m.p., musdo-plato; h.c, neural canal; ac, sclerotome; s.p., cutis-plate.