337 FEMUR The lower extremity (fig. 389), larger than the upper, is somewhat cuboid in form, but its transverse diameter is greater than its antero-posterior; it consists of two lateral oblong eminences known as the condyles. In front, the condyles are but slightly prominent, and are separated from one another by a smooth shallow articular depression called the trochlea ; behind, they project considerably, and the interval between them forms a deejj notch, the inter- co7idyloid notch (fossa intercondyloidea). The external condyle (condylus lateralis) is the more prominent and the broader both in its antero-posterior and trans- verse diameters; the internal condyle (condylus medialis) is the longer and, when the femur is held with its shaft perpendicular, projects to a lower level. Wlien, however, the femur is m its natural oblique position the lower surfaces of the two condyles lie practically in the same horizontal plane. The condyles are not quite parallel with one another ; the long axis of the external is almost directly antero-posterior, but that of the internal runs backwards and inwards. Then- opposed surfaces, viz. the inner surface of the external and the outer of the internal, are small, rough, and concave, and form the lateral walls of the intercondyloid notch. This notch is limited above by a ridge, the linea inter- condyloidea, and below by the central part of the posterior margm of the trochlear surface. The posterior crucial ligament of the knee-joint is attached to the lower and front part of the inner wall of the notch and the anterior crucial ligament to an impression on the upper and back part of its outer wall. The outer surface of the external condyle and the inner of the internal are each surmounted by a tuberosity. That on the internal condyle—the inner tuberosity (epicondylus medialis)—is a large convex eminence to which the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint is attached. At its upper part is the adductor tubercle, already referred to, and behind it is a rough impression which gives origin to the inner head of the Gastrocnemius. That on the external condyle, the outer tuberosity (epicondylus lateralis), smaller and less promment than the mtemal, gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the knee- jomt. Du-ectly below it is a small depression from which a smooth well-marked groove curves obHquely upwards and backwards to the posterior extremity of the condyle. This groove is separated from the articular surface of the condyle by a prominent lip across which a second, shallower groove runs vertically downwards from the depression. In the recent state these grooves are covered mth cartilage. The Popliteus arises from the depression ; its tendon is lodged m the oblique groove when the knee is flexed and m the vertical groove when the knee is extended. Above and behind the outer tuberosity is an area for the origm of the outer head of the Gastrocnemius, above and to the mner side of which the Plantaris arises. The articular surface of the lower end of the femur occupies the anterior inferior, and posterior surfaces of the condyles. Its front part is named the trochlea (facies pateUaris) and articulates with the patella; it presents a median groove which extends do^rawards to the intercondyloid notch and two lateral convexities, the external of wliich is broader, more prominent and extends farther upwards than the internal. The lower and posterior parts ot the articular surface constitute the tibial surfaces for articulation wtli the corresponding tuberosities of the tibia and' semilunar cartUages. xnese surtaces are separated from one another by the intercondyloid notch o^^^ 1'°"^ ^^clilea by faint grooves which extend obliquely across the conayles. 1 he outer of these grooves is the better marked ; it runs outwards ana torwards from the front part of the intercondyloid notch, and expands externaUy to form a triangular depression. When the knee-joint is fully extenaecl the outer triangular part of this groove rests upon the anterior portion 01 Hie external semilunar cartilage, and its inner part comes into contact with the fnh! ^^''f";^ of t/i? outer articular surface of the tibia in front of the external ^uoercie ot the tibial spme. The iiuier groove is less distinct than the outer. A^aoes not reach as far as the intercondyloid notch and therefore exists only un cne inner part of the condyle ; it receives the anterior edge of the internal PYf^ if '^^^g® ^^'lien the knee-joint is extended. Where the groove ceases Aceinauy the trochlear surface is seen to be continued backwards as a semi- l,,r^... ''''''''' anterior part of the intercondyloid notch ; this semi- fkSnn''''?ff f ^^^^^ internal vertical facet of the pateUa in forced nexion of the knee-joint. The tibial surfaces of the condyles are convex from