419 CARPAL ARTICULATIONS Tlip Posterior or Dorsal Ligament consists of short, irregular bimdles of fibres passing between the bones of the first and second rows on the dorsal surface of the carpus. .,1.1 i- i i-i The Lateral Ligaments are very short : one is placed on the radial, the other on the ulnar side of the carpus ; the former, the stronger and moie distinct connects the scaphoid and trapezium, the latter the cuneiform •ind unciform • they are continuous with the lateral ligaments of the wrist- joint. In addition to these ligaments, a slender interosseous band sometimes connects the os magnum and the scaphoid. , • .rm The Synovial Membrane of the Carpus is very extensive (fig. 459) ; it passes from the margins of the under surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, Mid cuneiform bones to the margins of the upper surfaces of the bones of the second row. It sends two prolongations upwards—between the scaphoid and semilunar and the semilunar and cuneiform—and three prolongations doAvn- \\ ards between the four bones of the second row. The prolongation between the trapezium and trapezoid, or that between the trapezoid and os magnum, is often continued onwards, omng to the absence of the interosseous ligament, into the carpo-metacarpal joints, sometimes of the yio. 459.—^Vertical section thi-ough the articulations four mner metacarpal bones, at the wrist, showing the five synovial membranes, sometimes of the second and tliird only. In the latter condition the joint between the unciform and the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones lias a separate synovial mem- brane. The sjmovial mem- branes of these joints are prolonged for a short distance Ijetween the metacarpal bones. There is a separate synovial membrane between tlie pisiform and cunei- form. Movements.—The articu- lation of the hand and wrist considered as a whole involves four articular surfaces : (a) the inferior surfaces of the radius and triangular fibro-cartilage ; (b) the superior surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform, the pisiform having no essential part in the move- ment of the hand; (c) the S-shaped sui-face formed by the inferior sm-faces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform ; (d) the reciprocal surface formed by the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform. These fom- surfaces form two joints : (1) the superior or wrist-joint proper ; and (2) the inferior or mid-carpal joint. (1) The articulation between the forearm and carpus is a true condyloid articula- tion, and therefore all movements but rotation are permitted. Flexion and exten- sion are the most free, and of these a greater amount of extension than of flexion is permitted since the articulating surfaces extend farther on the dorsal than on the palmar surfaces of the carpal bones. In this movement the carpal bones rotate on a transverse axis drawn between the tips of the styloid processes of the radius and ulna. A certain amount of adduction (or ulnar flexion) and abduction (or radial flexion) is also permitted. The former is considerably greater in extent than the latter on account of the shortness of the styloid process of the ulna, abduction being soon limited by the contact of the styloid process of the radius with the trapezium. In this movement the carpus revolves upon an autero-posterior axis drawn through the centre of the wrist. Finally, circumduction is permitted by the combined and consecutive movements of E E 2