382 SYNDESMOLOGY Ligaments connecting the Axis with the Occipitai. Bone Occipito-axial. Three Odontoid. The Occipito-axial Ligament (membrana tectoria) is situated within the spinal canal. It is a broad, strong band, which covers the odontoid process and its ligaments, and appears to be a prolongation upwards of the posterior common ligament of the vertebral column. It is attached, below, to the posterior surface of the body of the axis, and, becoming expanded as it ascends, is mserted mto the basQar groove of the occipital bone, m front of the foramen magnum, where it blends with the dura mater of the skuE. It Ls in relation by its anterior surface with the transverse ligament, by its posterior surface with the dura mater. The Odontoid or Check Ligaments (ligamenta alaria) (fig. 430) are strong, rounded fibrous cords, which arise one on either side of the upper part of the odontoid process, and, passmg obhquely upwards and outwards, are inserted into the rough depressions on the inner sides of the condyles of the occipital bone. In the triangular mterval between these ligaments is another fibrous cord, the ligamentum apicis dentis or middle odontoid ligament (fig. 431), which extends from the apex of the odontoid process to the anterior margm' of the foranien magnum, being intimately blended with the deep portion of the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament and upper fasciculus of the transverse ligament of the atlas. It is regarded as a rudimentary intervertebral disc, and in it traces of the notochord may persist. The odontoid ligaments serve to limit the extent to which rotation of the cranium may be carried ; hence they have received the name of check ligaments. In addition to these ligaments which connect the atlas and axis to the skull, the ligamentum nuchse must be regarded as one of the ligaments by which the vertebral column is connected with the cranium. It has been described on page 376. Applied Anatomy.—The ligaments which unite the component parts of the vertebral columu together are so strong, and the bones are so interlocked by the arrangement of their articulating processes, that dislocation is very uncommon,' and, indeed, except in the upper part of the neck, rarely occurs unless accompanied by fracture. Dislocation of the occiput from the atlas has been recorded only ia one or two cases ; but dislocation of the atlas from the axis, with rupture of the transverse Ugament, is much more common : it is the mode in which death is produced ia many cases of execution by hanging. In the lower part of the neck—that is, below the third cervical vertebra—dislocation unattended by fracture occasionally takes place. IV. ARTICULATION OF THE MANDIBLE (AETICULATIO MANDIBULARIS) This is a ginglymo-arthrodial joint; the parts entering into its formation on either side are, above, the anterior part of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone and the eminentia articularis ; and, below, the condyle of the mandible. The ligaments are the following : Capsular. Internal Lateral. External Lateral. Interarticular Fibro-cartUage. Stylo-mandibular. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) forms a thin and loose, but distinct capsule, attached above to the circumference of the glenoid cavity and the articular surface immediately in front; below, to the neck of the condyle of the mandible. It is thinnest on the inner side. The External Lateral Ligament (lig. temporomandibulare) (fig. 432) is an accessory band of the capsular ligament, and is not separable from it. It consists of two short, narrow fasciculi, one in front of the other, attached, above, to the outer surface of the zygoma and to the tubercle on its lower border; below, to the outer surface and posterior border of the neck of the mandible. It is broader above than below ; its fibres are jjarallel with one another, and directed obliquely downwards and backwards. Externally, it is covered by the parotid gland, and by the integument. The Internal Lateral Ligament (lig. sphenomandibulare) (fig. 433) is a flat thin band which is attached above to the spinous process of the sphenoid