THE TEETH 1101 Fig. 912.—Dental sac of a human embryo at an advanced stage of develoj)ment. Partly diagrammatic. Those which are in immecUate contact witli the pai)illa become elongated, and form a layer of well-marked columnar epithelium coating the pajjiila. They are the cells which form the enamel fibres, and are therefore termed enamel cells or adamantohlasla. The cells of the outer layer of the special dental germ, which are in contact with the inner surface of the dental sac, presently to be described, are much shorter, cubical in form, and are named the external enamel ejnthelmm. All the intermediate round cells of the dental germ between these two layers undergo a peculiar change. They become stellate in shape and develop processes, which unite to form a network into which fluid is secreted; this has the appearance of a jelly, and to it the name of enamel pulp is given. This transformed special dental germ is now known under the name of enamd organ. While these changes are going on, a sac is formed around each enamel organ from the sm-rounding mesodermal tissue. This is known as the denkd sac, and is a vascular membrane of coimective tissue. It grows up from below, and thus encloses the whole tooth germ ; as it grows it causes the neck of the enamel organ to atrophy and disappear ; so that all communication between the enamel organ and the superficial epithelium is cut off. At this stage there are vascular papilte svu-mounted by inverted caps of epithelial cells, the whole being surrounded by membranous sacs. The cap consists of an internal layer of cells—the enamel cells or adamantoblasts—in contact with the papilla ; of an external layer of cells—the external enamel epithelium—lining the interior of the dental sac; and of an intermediate mass of stellate cells, with anastomosing processes—the enamel pulp (fig. 912). Formation of the enamel.—The enamel is formed exclusively from the enamel cells or adamantoblasts of the special dental germ, either by direct calcification of the columnar cells, which become elongated into the hexa- gonal rods of the enamel; or, as is believed by some, as a secretion from the adamanto- blasts, ^\ithin which calcareous matter is subsequently deposited. The process begins at the apex of each cusp, at the ends of the enamel cells, in con- tact with the dental papilla. Here a fine globular deposit takes place, being apparently shed from the end of the adamantoblasts. It is known by the name of enamel droplet, and resembles keratin in its resistance to the action of mineral acids. This di-oplet then calcifies and forms the first layer of the enamel; a second di'oplet now appears and calcifies, and so on ; successive droplets of keratin-like material are shed from the adamantoblasts and form successive layers of enamel, the adamantoblasts gradually receding as each layer is produced, until at the termination of the process they have almost disappeared. The intermediate cells of the enamel pulp atrophy and disappear, so that the newly formed calcified material and the external enamel epithelium come into apposition. This latter layer, however, soon disappears on the emergence of the tooth beyond the gum. After its disappearance the crown of the tooth is still covered by a distinct membrane, which remains persistent for some time. This is known as the cuticula denlis, or NasmytJis membrane, and is believed to be the last-formed layer of enamel derived from the adamantoblasts, which has not become calcified. It forms a horny layer, which may be sejiarated from the subjacent calcified mass by the action of strong acids. It is marked by the hexagonal impressions of the enamel prisms, and, when stained by nitrate of silver, shows the characteristic appearance of epithelium. Formation of the dentine.—While these changes are taking place in the epithelium to form the enamel, contemporaneous changes occuiTing in the differentiated mesoderm of the dental papillae result in the formation of the dentine. As before stated, the first germs of the dentine are the papillae, corresponding in number to the teeth, formed from the soft mesodermal tissue whicli bounds the depressions containing the special enamel germs. The papilla; grow upwards into the enamel germs and become covered by them, both being enclosed in a vascular connective tissue, the dental sac, in the manner above described. Each papilla then constitutes the formative pulp from \\'hich the dentme and permanent pulp are developed ; it consists of rounded cells, and is very vascular, and soon begins to assume the shape of the future tooth. The next step is the appeai'ance of the odontoblasts, which have a relation to the development of the teeth similar to that of 0. Wall of the sac, formed of connective tissue, with its outer stratum, o', and its inner, a . i. Enamel organ, c. The external enamel epitheUum. d. The enamel cells, c. Dentine cells. /. Dental papilla. (/, i. Transition of the wall of the folUcle into the tissue of the dental germ.