401 STERNO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION Movements.—Tliis articulation is the centre of the movenionts of the .sliouhler, and admits of a Hniited amount of motion in nearly every direction—U])war(l.s, downwards, backwards, forwards, as well as circumduction. _ When these move- ments take place in the joint, the clavicle in its motion carries the scapula with it, tliis bone gliding on the outer surface of the chest. This joint therefore forms the centre from which all movements of the supporting arch of the shoulder ori'Tinate, and is the only point of articulation of this part of the skeleton with thiTtnmk. ' The movements attendant on elevation and depression of the shoulder take place between the clavicle and the interarticular fibro-cartilage, the bone rotatinti upon the ligament on an axis drawn from before backwards through its own articular facet. When the shoulder is moved forwards and backwards, the clavicle, with the interarticular fibro-cartilage, rolls to and fro on the articular surface of the sternmn, revolving, with a shding movement, romid an axis drawii nearly vertically through the sternum. In the circumduction of the shoulder, which is compounded of these two movements, the clavicle revolves upon the interarticular fibro-cartilage, and the latter, with the clavicle, rolls upon the sternum.' * Elevation of the shoulder is Umited principally by the costo-clavicular ligament; depression, by the interclavicular hgament and interarticular fibro- cartilage. The muscles which raise the clavicle, as in shrugging the shoulders, are the upper fibres of the Trapezius, the Levator anguh scapulas, and the clavicular head of the Sterno-mastoid, assisted to a certain extent by the two Rhomboids, which pull the vertebral border of the scapula backwards and upwards and so raise the clavicle. The depression of the clavicle is principally effected by gravity assisted by the Subclavius, Pectoralis irunor, and lower fibres of the Trapezius. It is drawn backwards by the Rhomboids and the middle and lower fibres of the Trapezius, and forwards by the Serratus magnus and PectoraUs minor. Surface Form.—The sterno-clavicular joint is subcutaneous and its position may be easily ascertained by feeling the enlarged sternal end of the clavicle just external to the long, cord-like, sternal origin of the Sterno-mastoid. If this muscle be relaxed by bending the head forwards, a depression just internal to the end of tlio clavicle, and between it and the sternum, can be felt, indicating the exact position of the joint. Applied^ Anatoimj.—The strength of this joint mainly depends upon its hgaments, and it is owing to this, and to the fact that the force of the blow is usually transmitted along the long axis of the clavicle, that dislocation rarely occurs, and that the bone is broken rather than displaced, ^\^len dislocation does occur, the course which the displaced bone takes depends more upon the direction in which the violence is applied than uj^on the anatomical construction of the joint; it may bo either forwards, backwards, or upwards. Should it be displaced backwards it may cause pressure on the trachea. The chief point worthy of note, as regards the construction of the joint, in comicetion wth dislocation, is the fact that, owing to the shape of the articular surfaces, and the strength of the joint mainly depending upon the hgaments, the displacement when reduced is very liable to recur, and hence it is extremely difficult to keep the end of the bone in its proper place. 11. ACROMIO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION (ARTICULATIO ACROMIO- CLAVICULARIS) The acromio-clavicular articulation (fig. 450) is an arthrodial joint between the outer extremity of the clavicle and the inner margin of the acromion process of the scapula. Its ligaments are : Capsular. Interarticular Fibro-cartilage. Superior Acromio-clavicular. r, i • i i Trapezoid a Tnf.^,.;^.. A • 1 • 1 Coraco-clavicular ^, interior Acromio-clavicular. Conoid. I'he Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) completely surrounds the articular margins, and is .specially strong above and below, where it forms the superior and inferior acromio-clavicular ligaments. It consists of fibres arranged parallel to each other and passing between the adjacent borders of the two bones. The Superior Acromio-clavicular Ligament (lig. acromioclaviculare sup.) IS a quadrilateral band, which covers the superior part of the articulation, extending between the upper part of the outer end of the clavicle and the adjoin- ing part of the upper surface of the acromion. It is composed of parallel fibres, * nuiiipbry, On the Human Slifltlon, page 402.