HUMERUS 295 and partly to weakness and flaccidity of the Latissimus dorsi and Serratus magnus. The shoulders are held low in these subjects, and the clavicles slope dowiawards and forwards, carrying with them the scapula, which fit ill to the posterior wall of the chest and so tend to project from it. Tumours of various kinds grow from the scapula. Of the innocent form probably the osteomata are the most common. When an osteoma gi-ows from the venter of the scapula, as it sometimes does, it is of the compact variety, such as usually grows from membrane-formed bones, as the bones of the skull. Sarcomatous tumours sometimes grow from the scapula, and may necessitate removal of the bone, with or without amputation of the upper limb. The bone may be excised by a T-shaped incision, and the flaps being reflected, the removal is commenced from the posterior or vertebral border, so that the subscapular vessels which lie along the axillary border are amongst the last structures divided, and can be at once secured. The Humerus The Humerus (figs. 353 and 354) is the longest and largest bone of the upper extremity ; it presents for examination a shaft and two extremities. The upper extremity consists of a large rounded head joined to the shaft by a constricted portion called the neck, and two eminences, the greater and lesser tuberosities. The head (caput humeri), nearly hemispherical in form,* is directed upwards, inwards, and a little backwards, and articulates with the glenoid cavity oif the scapula. The circumference of its articular surface is slightly constricted, and is termed the anatomical neck, in contradistinction to the constriction which exists below the tuberosities. The latter is called the surgical neck (collum chirurgicum), since it is frequently the seat of fracture. Fi-acture of the anatomical neck does sometimes, though rarely, occur. The anatomical neck (coUum anatomicum) is obliquely directed, forming an obtuse angle with the shaft. It is most distmctly marked in the lower half of its cu-cumference ; in the upper half it is represented by a narrow groove separating the head from the tuberosities. Its circumference affords attachment to the capsular Ugament, and is perforated by numerous vascular foramina. The greater tuberosity (tuberculum majus) is situated on the outer side of the head and lesser tuberosity. Its upper surface is rounded and marked by three flat impressions, separated by two shght ridges : the highest impres- sion gives insertion to the Supraspinatus ; the middle to the Infraspinatus ; the lowest one, and the shaft of the bone below it, to the Teres minor. The outer surface of the greater tuberosity is convex, rougli, and continuous with the outer surface of the shaft. The lesser tuberosity (tuberculum minus), although smaller, is more prominent than the greater : it is situated in front, and is directed inwards and forwards. Above and in front it presents an impression for the insertion of the tendon of the Subscapularis. The tuberosities are separated from each other by a deep groove, the bicipital groove (sulcus iutertubercularis) which lodges tlie long tendon of the Biceps, and transmits a branch of the anterior circumflex artery to the shoulder-joint, it begms above between the two tuberosities, runs obUquely downAvards and a elf ®nds near the junction of the upper with the middle thu-d ot the bone. In the recent state its upper part is covered Math a tliin layer of cartilage, hned by a prolongation of the synovial membrane of the shoulder- joint; its lower portion gives msertion to the tendon of the Latissimus dorsi. It IS deep and narrow above, and becomes shallow and a Uttle broader as it descends, its lips are called, respectively, the anterior and posterior bicipital ridges (cristse tuberculi majoris et minoris), and form the upper parts of the anterior and mternal borders of the shaft of the bone. The shaft (corpus humeri) is almost cyhndrical in the upper half of its extent, prismatic and flattened below, and presents three borders and three surtaces for examination. * Though the head is nearly hemispherical in form, its margin, as Humphry has shown, is uy no means a true circle. Its greatest diameter is, from the top of the bicipital groove in a aireotion downwards, inwards, and backwards. Hence it follows that the greatest elevation nhi;^® 'T''" . obtained by rolling the articular surface in this direction—that is to say, Obliquely upwards, outwards, and forwards.