919 FIFTH CRANIAL NERVE of the nerve is at first confined to one only of the main divisions, and the search for the causative lesion should always commence with a thorough examination of all those parts which are supplied by that division ; although in severe cases pain may radiate over the branches of the other main divisions. The commonest example of this condition is the neuralgia which is so often associated with dental caries—here, although the tooth itself may not appear to be painful, the most distressing referred pains may be experienced, and these are at once relieved by treatment directed to the aSected tooth. Many other examples of ' fifth nerve ' reflexes could be quoted, but it will be sufficient to mention the more common ones. Dealing with the ophthalmic division, severe supra- orbital pain is commonly associated with acute glaucoma or with disease of the frontal or ethmoidal air-cells. Malignant growths or empyema of the maxillary antrum, or imhealthy conditions about the inferior turbinateds or the septum of the nose, are often found giving rise to ' second division ' neuralgia, and should be always looked for in the absence of dental disease in the maxUIa. It is on the third division, however, that some of the most striking reflexes are seen. It is quite common to meet with patients who complain of pain in the ear, in whom there is no sign of aural disease, and the cause is usually to be found in a carious tooth in the mandible. Moreover, with an ulcer or cancer of the tongue, often the first pain to be jB^g. 774.—Diagram showing cutaneous areas of face and spalp. experienced is one which radiates to the ear and temporal fossa, over the distribution of the auriculo-temporal nerve. The fifth nerve is often the seat of severe neuralgia for which no local cause can be discovered; each of the three divisions has been divided, or a portion of the nerve excised, for this affection, usually, however, with only temporary relief. The supraorbital nerve may be exposed by making an incision an inch and a half m length along the supra- orbital margin, below the eyebrow which is to be drawn upwards, the centre of the incision corresponding to the supraorbital notch. The skin and Orbicularis palpebrarum havmg been divided, the nerve can be easily found emerging from the notch, and lying in some loose cellular tissue. It should be drawn up by a blunt hook and divided, or, better, a portion of it removed. The infraorbital nerve has been divided at its exit by an mcision on the cheek ; or the floor of the orbit has been exposed, the infraorbital ^'^^ u ivT^"^ > ^""^ anterior part of the nerve resected ; or the whole nerve, together with Meckel's ganglion as far back as the foramen rotundum may be removed, but even then a return of the neuralgia in some other branches of the fifth nerve is the rule rather than the exception. The operation is performed as follows : the superior maxillary bone is first exposed by a T-shaped incision, one limb passing along the lower margin of the orbit, the other from the centre of this vertically down the cheek to the angle of the mouth. The nerve is to be found, divided, and a piece of silk tied to it as a "uide.