OSTEOLOGY 362 in their turn articulate with the fii-st and third : the ungual phalanges articulate with the second. In the great toe the first phalanx articulates behind with, the metatarsal bone and in front with the ungual phalanx. Ossification of the Bones of the Foot (fig. 416) The Tarsal bones are each ossified from a single centre, excepting the os calcis, which has an epiphysis for its posterior extremity. The centres make their appearance in the following order : os calcis, at the sixth month of foetal hfe ; astragalus, about the seventh mouth ; cuboid, at the ninth month ; external cuneiform, during the first year; internal cuneiform, in the third year; middle cuneiform and navicular, in the fourth year. The epiphysis for the posterior extremity of the os calcis appears at the tenth year, and unites with the rest of the bone soon after puberty. The tubercle on the posterior surface of the astragalus is sometimes ossified from a separate centre, and may remain distinct from the main mass of the bone, when it is named the os trigonum. The Metatarsal bones are each ossified from two centres : one for the shaft, and one for the digital extremity, in the four outer metatarsals ; one for the shaft, and one for the proximal extremity, in the metatarsal of the great toe.* Ossifi- cation commences in the centre of the shaft about the ninth week, and extends towards either extremity. The centre for the proximal end of the first metatarsal appears about the third year; the centres for the distal ends of the other bones between the fifth and eighth years ; they join the shafts between the eighteenth and twentieth years. The Phalanges are each ossified from two centres : one for the shaft, and one for the metatarsal extremity. The centre for the shaft appears about the tenth week, that for the metatarsal extremity between the fourth and tenth years ; it joins the shaft about the eighteenth year. Comparison op the Bones op the Hand and Foot The hand and foot are constructed on somewhat similar principles, each con- sisting of a proximal part, the carpus or the tarsus, a middle portion, the metacarpus or the metatarsus, and a terminal portion, the phalanges. The proximal part con- sists of a series of more or less cubical bones which allow a slight amount of ghding on one another and are chiefly concerned in distributing forces transmitted to or from the bones of the arm or leg. The middle part is made up of slightly movable long bones which assist the carpus or tarsus in distributing forces and also give greater breadth for the reception of such forces. The separation of the individual bones from one another allows of the attachments of the Interossei and protects the dorsi-palmar vascular anastomoses. The distal portion is the most movable, and its separate elements enjoy a varied range of movements, the chief of which are flexion and extension. The functions of the hand and foot are, however, very different, and the general similarity between them is greatly modified to meet these requirements. Thus the foot forms a firm basis of support for the body in the erect posture, and is therefore more solidly built up and its component parts are less movable on each other than those of the hand. In the case of the phalanges the difference is readily noticeable ; those of the foot are smaller and their movements are more liimted than those of the hand. Very much more marked is the difference between the meta - carpal bone of the thumb and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The metacarpal bone of the thumb is constructed to permit of great mobility, is directed at an acute angle from that of the index finger, and is capable of a considerable range of movements at its articulation with the carpus. The metatarsal bone of the great toe assists in supporting the weight of the body, is constructed with great solidity, lies parallel witli the other metatarsals, and has a very limited degree of mobility. The carpus is small in proportion to the rest of the hand, is placed in line with the forearm, and forms a transverse arch, the concavity of which constitutes a bed for the flexor tendons and the palmar vessels and nerves. Ihe tarsus forms a considerable part of the foot, and is placed at right angles to the leg, a position which is almost pecuUar to man, and has relation to his erect ♦ As was noted in the first metacarpal, so in the tir.st metatarsal, there is often a second epiphysis for its distal extremity (see footnote, page 319).