08Teoloc;y attachment of the anterior co8to-transver.se ligament; its inferior border is rounded. On the ijosterior surface at the junction of the neck and shaft and nearer the lower than the upper border, is an eminence—the tubercle (tuberculum costa?) ; it consists of an articular and a non-articular portion The articular portion, the inner and lower of the two, presents a small oval surface for articulation with the extremity of the transverse process of the lower of tlie two vertebrae to M^hich tlie head is connected. The non-articular portion is a rough elevation, and affords attachment to the posterior costo-transverse ligament. The tubercle is much more prominent in the upper than in the lower ribs. The shaft (corpus costse) is thin and flat, with two surfaces, an external and an internal; and two borders, a superior and an inferior. The external surface is convex, smooth, and marked, a little in front of the tuberosity, by a prominent hne, directed obliquely from above downwards and outwards ; this gives attachment to a tendon of the Iho-costalis or of one of its acces- sory portions, and is called the angle (angulus costse). At this point the rib is bent in two directions, and at the same time twisted on its long axis. If the rib be laid upon its lower border, it will be seen that the portion of the shaft in front of the angle rests upon this border, and that the portion behind the angle is bent inwards and at the same time tilted upwards; as thfe result Fig. 279.—A central rib of the left side, viewed from behind. of the twisting, the external surface, belund the angle, looks downwards, and in front of the angle, slightly upwards. The distance between the angle and the tuberosity is progressively greater from the second to the tenth ribs. The portion between the angle and the tuberosity is rounded, rough, and irregular, and serves for the attachment of the Longissimus dorsi. The external surface presents, towards its sternal extremity, an oblique line, the anterior angle. The internal surface is concave, smooth, directed a little Upwards behind the angle, a little downwards in front of it, and is marked by a ridge which commences at the lower extremity of the head ; this ridge is strongly marked as far as the inner side of the angle, and gradually becomes lost at the junction of tlie anterior and middle thirds of the bone. Between it and the inferior border is a groove, the subcostal groove (sulcus costae), for the intercostal vessels and nerve. At the back part of the bone, tliis groove belongs to tlie inferior border, but just in front of the angle, where it is deepest and broadest, it corresponds to the internal surface. The superior edge of the gi'oove is rounded and serves for the attacliment of the Internal intercostal muscle; the inferior edge corresponds to the lower margin of the rib, and gives attachment to the External intercostal. Within tlic groove are seen the orifices of numerous small foramina for nutrient vessels, whicli traverse the shaft obliquely from before backwards. Tlie suj)erior border, thick and rounded, is marked by an external and an internal lip, more