MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THORACIC REGION 533 surfaces and upper borders of the upper eiglit or nine ribs, and from tlie aponeuroses covering the intervening Intercostal muscles. Each digitation (except the first) arises from the corresjionding rib ; the first digitation arises from the first and second ribs, and from the fascia covering the first intercostal space. From this extensive attachment the fibres pass backwards, closely applied to the chest-wall, and reach the vertebral border of the scapula, and are inserted into its ventral aspect in the following manner. The first digita- tion, arising from tlie first and second ribs, is inserted into a triangular area on the ventral surface of the superior angle. Tlie next two digitations (i.e. from the second and third ribs) spread out to form a thin, triangular sheet, the base of which is directed backwards and is inserted into nearly the whole length of the ventral surface of the vertebral border. The lower five or six digitations converge to form a fan-shaped mass, the apex of M'hich is inserted, by muscular and by tendinous fibres, into a triangular impression on the ventral sm-face of the inferior angle. The lower four slips interdigitate at their origins with the upper five slips of the External oblique muscle of the abdomen. Relations.—This muscle is partly covered, in front, by the Pectoral muscles and by the mammary gland ; behind, by the Subscapularis. The axillary vessels and nerves lie upon its upper part, while its deep sui-face rests upon the ribs and Intercostal muscles. Nerves.—The Serratus magnus is supplied by the posterior thoracic nerve, which is derived from the fifth, sixth, and seventh "cervical nerves. Actions.—The Serratus magnus, as a whole, carries the scapula forwards, and at the same time raises the vertebral border of the bone. It is therefore concerned in the action of pushing. Its lower and stronger fibres move forwards the lower angle and assist the Trapezius in rotating the bone at the sterno-clavicular joint, and thus assist this muscle in raising the acromion and supporting weights upon the shoulder. It is also an assistant to the Deltoid in raising the arm, inasmuch as during the action of this latter muscle it fixes the scapula and so steadies the glenoid cavity on which the head of the humerus rotates. After the Deltoid has raised the arm to a right angle with the trunk, the Serratus magnus and the Trapezius, by rotating the scapula, raise the arm into an almost vertical position. It is possible that when the shoulders are fixed the lower fibres of the Serratus magnus may assist in raising and everting the ribs ; but it is not the important inspiratory muscle it was formerly beheved to be. Applied Anatomi/.—When the muscle is paralysed, the vertebral border, and especially the lower angle of the scapula, leave the ribs and stand out prominently on the surface, giving a pecuUar ' winged' appearance to the back (page 294). The patient is unable to raise the arm, and an attempt to do so is followed by a further projection of the lower angle of the scapula from the back of the thorax. II. Muscles and Fascia of the Shoulder and Arm The superficial fascia of the upper extremity is a thin fibro-cellular layer, containing the superficial veins and lymphatics and the cutaneous nerves, it IS most distinct in front of the elbow, where it contains very large superficial veins and nerves ; in the hand it is hardly demonstrable, the integument being closely adherent to the deep fascia by dense fibrous bands. Subcutaneous bursas are found in this fascia over the acromion, the olecranon, and the knuckles. M ^^^P fascia of the upper extremity comprises the fascia of the shoulder, arm, and forearm, the anterior and posterior annular ligaments ot the carpus, and the palmar fascia. These will be considered in the description of the muscles of the several regions. 3. Acromial Region Deltoid. The deep fascia covering the Deltoid invests the muscle, and sends nunierous prolongations between its fasciculi. In front it is continuous with the fascia covermg the Pectoralis major ; behind, where it is thick and strong, with that covermg the Infraspinatus ; above, it is attached to the clavicle