641 TRIANGLES OF THE NECK Sterno-mastoid ; its base, directed upwards, is formed by the lower border of the body of the mandible, and a line extending from the angle of the mandible to the mastoid process ; its apex is below, at the sternum. This space is subdivided into four smaller triangles by the Digastric muscle above, and the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid below. These smaller triangles are named the inferior carotid, the superior carotid, the submaxillary, and the supra-hyoid triangles. The inferior carotid, or muscular triangle, is bounded, in front, by the median line of the neck from the hyoid bone to the sternum ; behind, by tlie anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid ; above, by the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid. It is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia ; ramifying in which are some of the descend- ing branches of the superficial cervical plexus. Beneath these superficial structures are the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyi-oid muscles, which, together with the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid, conceal the lower part of the common carotid artery.* This vessel is enclosed within its sheath, together with the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve ; the vein lies on the outer side of the artery on the right side of the neck, but overlaps it belo\\- Fig. 579.—The triangles of the neck. Supra-hyoid triangle Suhmaxillary triangle, Superior carotid triangle' Inferior carotid triangle Subclavian triangle on the left side ; the nerve lies between the artery and vein, on a plane posterior to both. In front of the sheath are a few filaments descendmg from the loop of commumcation between the descendens and communicantes liypoglossi ; beliind the sheath are the mferior thyroid artery, the recur- rent laryngeal nerve, and the sympathetic cord ; and on its mner side, the cesophagus, the trachea, the thyroid gland—much more prominent in the temale than m the male—and the loM-er part of the larynx. By cutting into t le upper part of this space, and slightly displacing the Sterno-mastoid muscle, tiie common carotid artery may be tied below the Omo-hyoid muscle. Ihe superior carotid, or carotid triangle, is bounded, behind, by the Gterno-mastoid ; below, by the anterior beUy of the Omo-hyoid ; and above, * Therefore the common carotM artery and internal jugular vein are not, strictly speaking, contained in thi.s triangle, since they are covered by the Sterno-mastoid muscle; that is to say cney lie under that muscle, which forms the posterior border of the triangle. I3ut as they lie very close to the structures which are really contained in the triangle, and whose position it is essential to remember in operating on this part of the artery, it is e.>cpedient to study the relations of all these parts together. T T