MUSCULAR TISSUE 41 Fig. 51. ■— Anastomosing mus- cular fibres of tlie heart seen in a longitudinal section. On the right the limits of the separate cells with their nuclei are exhibited somewhat dia- grammatically. in the male sexual organs—viz. the dartos oi the scrotum, the vas deferens and epididymis, the vesiculfe seminalcs, the prostate gland, and the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum; in the capsule and trabecuL-e of the spleen ; in the mucous mem- branes, forming the muscularis mucosa); m the sldn, forming the arrectores pilorum, aud also in the sweat-glands; in the arteries, veins, and lymphatics ; in the iris and the ciliary muscle. Plaii: or uustriped muscle is made up of spindle- shaped cells, called contractile Jibre-cells, collected into bundles aud held together by a ccmeut sub- stance (fig. 50). These bundles are further aggre- ^ gated into larger fasciculi, or flattened bands, jf; and bound together by ordmary connective - ' - I tissue. The contractile fibre-cells are elongated, spindle- shaped, nucleated cells of various sizes, averaging ^ ^ from ah) shi oi an inch in length, aud ^r^r,Ti t - 11 \ ! to ,3^^,. of an inch in breadth. On transverse ' section they are more or less polyhedral in shape, fi-om mutual pressure. Each presents a faint , i longitudinal striation and consists of an elastic - V :^ cell-wall containing a central bundle of fibrillaj, 1 ; ''-i > representing the contractile substance, and an oval or rod-like nucleus, which includes, mthin a membrane, a fine network communicating at the ^jyikii-' ' ^ poles of the nucleus with the contractile fibres (Klein). The adhesive interstitial cement siibstance, which connects the fibre- cells together, represents the endomvsium of striped muscular tissue, while the tissue connecting the individual bmidles together represents the perimysium. Uu- striped muscle, except the ciliary muscle, is not under the control of the will, neither is the contraction rapid nor does it, as a rule, involve the whole muscle, as is the case with the voluntary muscles. The membranes which are composed of uustriped muscle slowly contract in a part of their extent, generally under the influence of a mechanical stimulus, as that of distension or of cold; and then the contracted part slowly relaxes while another portion of the membrane takes up the contraction. This pecuharity of action is most strongly marked iii the intestines, constituting their vermicular motion. Cardiac muscular tissue.—The fibres of the heart difl'er very remarkably from those of other striped nuiscles. 'i'hey are smaller by one-third, and their transverse strife are by no means so well marked. The fibres are made up of distinct quadrangular cells joined end to end* (fig. 51). Each cell con- tains a clear oval nucleus, situated near the centre of the cell. The extre- mities of the cells have a tendency to branch or divide, the subdivisions uniting with offsets from other cells, aud thus producing an anastomosis of the fibres. The connective tissue between Fio. 52.—Purkinje tibres from the sheep's heart. * The junctions between the cells arc only occasionally seen, and some hislologists maintain that they are only artefacts.