THE PERITONEUM 1131 relation with the inferior mesenteric vein: that is to say, the vein almost always corresponds to the line of union of the superior duodenal fold with the posterior parietal peritoneum, (c) The duodcno-jejunal fossa can be seen by pulhng the jejunum downwards and to the right, after the transverse colon has been pulled upwards. It will appear as an almost circular opening, looking do\^'nwards and to the right, and bounded by two free borders or folds of peritoneum, the duodeno- mesocolic ligaments. The opening admits the little finger into the fossa, to the depth of from two to three centimetres. The fossa is bounded above by the pancreas, to the right by the aorta, and to the left by the kidney; beneath is the left renal vein. The fossa exists in from 15 to 20 per cent, of cases, and has never yet been found in conjunction with any other form of duodenal fossa. 2. Circumcoecal fossce (figs. 930, 931, 932).— There are at least three pouches or recesses termed circumccecal fossce to be found in the neighbour- hood of the caecum. (a) The ileo-colic fossa (superior ileo-csecal) is formed by a fold of peri- toneum, the ileo-cohc fold, arching over the branch of the ileo-cohc artery which supplies the ileo-colic junction. The fossa is a narrow chink situated Fig. 931.—Ileo-oascal fossa. The caecum and ascending colon have been drawn outwards and downwards, the ileum upwards and backwards, and the appendix downwards. (Poirier and Charpy.) between the ileo-cohc fold in front, and the mesentery of the small intestine, the ileum, and the small portion of the cascum behind. (&) The ileo-ccBcal fossa (inferior ileo-csecal) is situated behind the angle of junction of the ileum and caecum. It is formed by a fold of peritoneum (the ileo-csecal fold or bloodless fold of Treves), the upper border of wliich is attached to the ileum, opposite its mesenteric attachment, while the lower border, passing over the ileo-ca;cal junction, joins tlie mesentery of the appendix, and sometimes the appendix itself; hence this fold has been called the Ueo-appendicular. Between this fold and the mesentery of the vermiform Fig. 930.—Ileo-colic fossa. (Poirier and Charpy.) Anterior ■ileo-ccecal Ileo-cohc ■' Mesentery Anterior ileo-ciBcal fossa Inferior ileo-ciecal fold ■lie II 1)1