THE HEART 611 looped fibres pass upwards over each auricle, beiug attached by their two extremi- ties to the corresponding auriculo-ventricular ring, in front and behind. The annular fibres suiTound the appendices auricularum, and form annular bands aroimd the terminations of the veins and around the fossa ovalis. The fibres of the ventricles are arranged in a complex manner, and various accounts have been given of their course and connections. The following description is based on the work of McCallum.* They consist of superficial and deep layers, all of which, with the exception of two, are inserted into the papillary muscles of the ventricles. The superficial layers consist of the following, (a) Fibres which spring from the tendon of the conus arteriosus and sweep downwards and towards the left across the anterior interventricular furrow and around the apex of the heart, where they pass upwards and inwards to terminate in the papillary muscles of the left ventricle. Those which spring from the upper half of the tendon of the conus arteriosus pass to the anterior papillary muscle, those from the lower half to the posterior papillary muscle and the papillary muscles of the septum, (b) Fibres which arise from the right auriculo-ventricular ring and run diagonally across the back of the right ventricle and romid its right border on to its anterior surface, where they dip beneath the fibres just described, and, crossing the interventricular groove, TOnd around the apex of the heart and terminate in the posterior papillary muscle of the left ventricle, (c) Fibres which spring from the left am-iculo-ventricular ring, and, crossing the posterior interventricular furrow, pass successively into the right ventricle and end in its papillary muscles. The deep layers are three in number : they arise in the papillary muscles of one ventricle and, curving in an S-shaped manner, turn in at the interventricular furrow and end in the papillary muscles of the other ventricle. The layer which is most superficial in the right ventricle Hes next the lumen of the left, and vice versa. Those of the first layer almost encircle the right ventricle, and, crossing in the septum to the left, unite with the superficial fibres from the light auriculo-ventricular ring to form the posterior papillary muscle. Those of the second layer have a less extensive coui'se in the wall of the right ventricle, and a correspondingly greater course in the left, where they join with the superficial fibres from the anterior half of the tendon of the conus arteriosus to form the papillary muscles of the septum. Those of the third layer pass almost entirely round the left ventricle and unite with the superficial fibres from the lower half of the tendon of the conus arteriosus to form the anterior papillary muscle. Besides the layers just described there are two bands which do not end in papillary muscles. One springs from the right auriculo-ventricular mg and crosses in the auriculo-ventricular septum: it then encircles the deep layers of the left ventricle and ends in the left auriculo-ventricular ring. The second band is apparently confined to the left ventricle; it is attached to the left auriculo-ventricular ring, and encircles the portion of the ventricle adjacent to the aortic orifice. The auriculo-ventricular bundle of His is the only direct muscular connection known to exist between the auricles and the ventricles. It arises near the orifice of the coronary sinus in the annular and septal fibres of the right auricle, passes torvvards in the lower part of the pars membranacea septi, and divides into right and left fasciculi. These run down in the right and left ventricles, one on either side of the interventricular septum, just covered by endocardium. In the lower parts ot the ventricles they break up into numerous strands which end in the papillary muscles and in the ventricular muscle generally. The undivided portion of the amiculo-yentricular bundle consists of narrow, somewhat fusiform fibres, but its two divisions and their terminal strands are composed of Purkinje fibres. Applied Anaiomy.—CUmcal and experimental evidence go to prove that this bundle conveys the impulse to systolic contraction from the auricular septum to tho ventricles, ana much attention has recently been paid to it, because it appears to become fibrosed ana to^ lose much of its conducting power (heart-block) in many cases of Stokes- AUams disease. This condition is characterised by a slow pulse, a tendency to syncopal or epileptiform seizures, and tho fact that wliile the cardiac auricles boat at a normal rate, tlie ventricles contract much less frequently. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the heart are the right and left ' coronary from the aorta. ir o & * Johns Hoijkins' l/ospiial Ituimrts, vol. ix. E R 2