1044 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE Head ■ Processus brevis Processus gracilis which springs from the eminence below the neck and is directed for%\ ards and outwards to the Glaserian fissure, to which it is connected by ligamentous fibres. In the fcetus this is the longest process of the malleus, and is in direct continuity witli the cartilage of Meckel. The processiis brevis (processus lateralis) is a slight conical projection, wluch springs from the root Fig. 860.—Left malleus, a. From behind, b. From mthin. of the manubrium ; it IS du-ected outwards, and is attaclied to the uppei" part of the tympanic membrane and, by means of the anterior and posterior malleolar folds, to the extremities of the notch of Rivinus. The Incus (fig. 861) has received its name from its supposed re- semblance to an anvil, ^ £ but it is more Uke a bicuspid tooth, with two roots, which differ in length, and are widely separated from each other. It consists of a body and two processes. The body (corpus incudis) is somewhat quadrilateral but compressed laterally. On its anterior surface is a deeply concavo-convex facet, which articulates with the head of the malleus. The two processes diverge from one another nearly at right angles. The sJiort process (crus breve) is somewhat conical in shape, Yig. 861.—Left incus, a. From within, projects almost horizontally b. From the front, backwards, and is attached to a depression, the fossa incudis, in the lower and back part of the epitympanic recess. The long process (crus longum), longer and more slender than the preceding, descends nearly vertically behind and parallel to the handle of the malleus, and, bending inwards, terminates , , i in a roSnded globular projection, the as orUculare or lenUc^ar process, which is tipped with cartilage, and articulates with the head of the stapes. In the foetus the OS orbiculare exists as a separate bone. ^fi,.,.„„ The Staoes (fig. 862), so called from its close resemblance to a stuiup. xiir, otapto V g, consists of a head, neck Fig. 862.—a. Left stapes, b. Foot-plate of stapes from within. Head Short process Body Facet for malleus Long process Os orbiculare Neck Crus imterius Crus posterius Foot-plate two crura, and a base. The head (capitulum stapedis) presents a de- pression, tipped witli cartilage, which articu- lates vvith the os orbi- culare. The neck (coUum stapedis), the constricted part of the bone suc- ceeding the head, receives the insertion of the Stapedius muscle. Thf two crura (crus anterius et crus posterius) diverge from t'^^ "<^^/y'^"5^"'^ connected at their extremities by a flattened oval-shaped V^^^^' Z'l^^l^ which forms tlie foot-plate of the stirrup and is fixed to the margin of the fencsti a ovalis by ligamentous fibres. Of the two crura the anterior is shorter and Jess curved than the posterior. B