308 OSTEOLOGY Surface Form.—Below, and a little in front of, the posterior surface of the external condyle a part of the head of the radius may be felt; its position is indicated by a little dimple in the skin, which is most visible when the arm is extended. If the finger be placed on this dimple and the semiflexed forearm pronated and supinated, the head of the bono will bo distinctly perceived rotating in the lesser sigmoid cavity. The upper half of the shaft cannot be felt, as it is surrounded by the fleshy bellies of the muscles arising fi-om the external condyle. The lower half can be readily examined, though covered by tendons and muscles and not strictly subcutaneous, and if traced downwards is felt to terminate in a lozenge-shaped, convex surface on the outer side of the base of the styloid process. This is the only subcutaneous part of the bone, and from its lower extremity the apex of the styloid process will bo felt bending inwards towards the wrist. About the middle of the posterior aspect of the lower extremity is a well-marked ridge, the dorsal radial tubercle, best perceived when the hand is slightly flexed on the wrist. It forms the outer boundary of the oblique groove, through which the tendon of the Extensor longus poUicis runs, and helps to keep that tendon in its place. Applied Anatomy.—The two bones of the forearm are more often broken together, than is either the radius or ulna separately. It is therefore convenient to consider the fractm'es of both bones in the first instance and subsequently to mention the principal fractures which take place in each bone. Fractures of both bones may be produced by either direct or indirect violence, though more commonly by du-ect violence. Wlmn indirect force is applied to the forearm the radius as a rule gives way, though botli bones may suffer. Fractm-e from indhect force generally takes place somewhere about the middle of the bones, while that from direct violence may occur at any part, but is most frequent in the lower half of the bones. The fracture is usually transverse, but may be more or less oblique. A point of interest in connection with these fractures 3s the tendency there is for the two bones to unite across the interosseous membrane ; the limb should therefore be put up in a position midway between supination and prona- tion, which is not only the most comfortable position, but also separates the bones most widely from each other and therefore diminishes the risk of their becoming united across the interosseous membrane. Anterior and posterior splints are appUed m these cases, and should be rather wider than the limb, so as to prevent any lateral pressure on the bones. . , The special fractures of the uhia are :—(1) Fractui-e of the olecranon, which is usually caused by direct violence, as in falls on the elbow with the forearm flexed, but occa- sionally by muscular action in sudden contraction of the Triceps. The most common place for the fi-acture to occur is at the constricted portion where the olecranon joms the shaft of the bone, and the fracture may be either transverse or obHque ; but any part may be broken, and even a thin shell may be torn off. Fractures from direct violence are occasionaUy commmuted. The displacement is slight, if the fibrous structures around the process are not torn. (2) Fracture of the coronoid process may occur as a com- plication of dislocation backwards of the bones of the forearm, but it is doubtful it it ever takes place as an uncomplicated injury. (3) Fractures of the shaft of the uhia may occur at any part, but usually take place at or a Uttle below the middle of the bone. Thev are c^eneraUy the result of direct violence, but may occur as a complication ot dislocation of the radius. (4) The styloid process may be knocked off by dhect violence. Fractures of the radius may consist of—(1) Fracture of the head of the bone ; this tor the most part takes place in conjunction with some other lesion, but may occur as an uncomplicated injury. (2) Fracture of the neck may also occur, but is usuaUy complicated with other injury. (3) Fractures of the shaft of the rac^us are very common and may take place at any part of the bone. They may be caused by dnect or indirect violence In fracture of the upper third of the shaft—that is to say, above the nisertion of the Pronator teres—the displacement is very great. The upper fragment is strongly supinated by the Biceps and Supmator brevis, and flexed by the Biceps ; while the lower fragment is pronated and dra^vn towards the ulna by the two Pronators. If such a _fracture be put up in the ordinary position, midway between supination and pronation, tUe bone will unite with the upper fragment in a position of supmation, and the lower one in the mid-position, and thus considerable impairment of the movement of supuiatiou ^xiU result; the 1 mb should therefore be put up with the forearm supinated. (4) 1 he most important fracture of the radius is that of the lower end (CoUes's fracture). The fracture is trans- verse and generally takes place about an inch from the lower extremity. It is caused by faUs on the palm of the hand, and is an injury of advanced life, occurring more frequently in the female than in the male. In consequence of the manner ni which the fracture is caused the upper fragment is driven into the lower, and impaction is the i-esult ; excess of'violence may, ho^vever, disimpact, the lower fragment being split into two or more p^ecerso that no fixation occurs. Separation of the lower epiphysis of he radius Sav tE place in the young. This injury and CoUes-s fracture maybe distinguished E other injuries in this neighbourhood^specially dislocation, with which they are ab^e to be confounded-by observing the relative positions o the ^tylmd processes --^ the ulna and radius. In the natural condit on of parts with the arm side, the styloid process of the radius is on a lower level than that of the ulna : that is to