202 OSTEOLOGY the head. It is seen in rickety childi-en, in rapidly growing adolescents, in senile conditions, and in certain diseases, such as osteo-arthritis and osteitis deformans. In tlie senile kyphosis often met with in aged laboiirers, the head is firmly fixed and bent forwards and downwards on to the chest, and the spinal column is curved and rigid. The ribs are immobilised, the chest is flattened antero-posteriorly, and breathing becomes almost entirely abdominal. Post-mortem, bony ankylosis of the ligaments and capsules of the intervertebral joints is found, mth ossification of the ligamenta subflava, interspinous and other ligaments. It may be noted that in marked cases of spinal deformity the trachea and aorta follow closely along the line of a spinal curvature occurring in their vicinity, whereas the oesophagus between the tracheal bifurcation and the stomach often passes like a bowstring across the concavity of the curve. Lordosis, on the other hand, is an exaggeration of the normal lumbar curve, the trunk being thrown backwards. This is always a compensatory curve, and is seen in any enlargement of the abdomen, such as pregnancy or tumours ; but it is more strongly marked in cases of disease of the hip-joint where the latter is permanently retained in a flexed position, so that in order to bring the foot down to the ground the j)elvis has to be tilted forwards, and this is accomplished by an increase of the normal lumbar curve forwards. Lamineclomy.—The operation of laminectomy is performed in cases of pressure on the spinal cord, where the continuity of the nerve-tracts has not been completely destroyed. It consists of cutting down on and removing the laminaj and spinous processes in the affected region, so as to relieve the cord from pressure ; but it is useless in cases of complete destruc- tion of the cord. Laminectomy is chiefly performed (i) for fracture-dislocation, (ii) for localised cord-pressure in cases of spinal caries, the object here being to remove the laminie against which the cord is pressed by the inflammatory mass ; and (iii) for the removal of tumours growing inside the spinal canal and compressing the cord. If such cases be taken early, very satisfactory results are obtained. THE THORAX The skeleton of the thorax, or chest, is an osseo-cartilaginous cage, containing and protecting the principal organs of respiration and circulation. It is conical in shape, being narrow above and t»road below, flattened from before backwards, and longer beliind than in front. It is somewhat reniform on transverse section on account of the projection of the vertebral bodies into the cavity. Boundaries.—The posterior surface is formed by the twelve thoracic vertebrse and the posterior parts of the ribs. It is convex from above doAvn- wards, and presents on either side of the middle hue a deep groove, in conse- quence of the direction backwards and outwards which the ribs take from their vertebral extremities to their angles. The anterior surface formed by the sternum and costal cartilages is flattened or shghtly convex, and inchned from above downwards and forwards. The lateral surfaces are convex; they are formed by the ribs, separated from each other by the intercostal spaces. These spaces are eleven in number, and are occupied by the Intercostal muscles and membranes. The upper opening of the thorax is reniform in shape, being broader from side to side than from before backwards. It is formed by the first thoracic vertebra behind, the upper margin of the sternum in front, and the first rib on either side, it slopes downwards and forwards, so that the anterior part of the rmg is on a lower level than the posterior. Its antero-posterior diameter is about two. and its transverse diameter about four inches. The lower opening is formed by the twelfth thoracic vertebra behind, by the eleventh and twelfth ribs at the sides, and in front bv the cartilages of the tenth, ninth, eighth, and seventh ribs, which ascend on either side and form an angle, the subcostal angle, into the apex of wliich the ensif orm cartilage projects. It is wider transversely than from before backwards, and slopes obUquely downwards and backwards. The Diapliragm closes the lower opening and forms the floor of the thorax. The thorax of the female difi^ers from that of the male as follows: 1. Its capacity is less. 2. The sternum is shorter. 3. The upper margm of the sternum is on a level with the lower part of the body of the thu'd thoracic vertebra, whereas in the male it is on a level with tlie lower part of the body of the second. 4. The upper ribs are more movable, and so aUow a greater enlargement of the upper part of the thorax.