1031 THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE tarsal plate. Externally the two ligaments fuse to form the external tarsal Ugament, just referred to ; internally they are much thmner and, becommg separated from the internal tarsal ligament, are fixed to the lachrymal bone immediately behind the laclnymal sac. Together the ligaments form an incomplete septum, the senium orbitale, which is perforated by the vessels and nerves which pass from the orbital cavity to the face and scalp. The Meibomian glands (glandular tarsales) (fig. 850) are situated upon the inner surfaces of the eyehds, between the tarsal plates and conjunctiva, and maybe distinctly seen through the mucous membrane on everting the eyelids, presenting an appearance like paraUel strings of pearls. They are about thu-ty in number in the upper eyelid, and somewhat fewer in the lower. They are imbedded in grooves in the inner surfaces of the tarsal plates, and correspond in length with the breadth of each plate ; tbey are, consequently, longer in the upper than in the lower eyelid. Their ducts open on the free margins of the lids by mmute foramina which correspond in number to the follicles. The use of their secretion is to prevent adhesion of the lids. Structure.—These glands are a variety of the cutaneous sebaceous glands, each consisting of a single straight tube or follicle, having a ctecal termination, and M-ith numerous small lateral diverticula opening into it. The tubes are supported by a basement membrane, and are hned at their mouths by stratified epithehum ; the deeper parts of the tubes and the lateral offshoots are lined by a layer of polyhedi-al cells. They are thus identical in structure vnth the sebaceous glands. .i, • The conjunctiva is the mucous membrane of the eye. It lines the inner surfaces of the eyelids, and is reflected over the fore-part of the sclera and cornea. In each of these situations its structure presents some pecuHarities. The palpebral portion is thick, opaque, highly vascular, and covered with numerous papillae, its deeper parts presenting a considerable amount of lymphoid tissue. At the margins of the Hds it becomes continuous wdth the Uning membrane of the ducts of the Meibomian glands, and, through the lachrymal canals, with the lining membrane of the lachrymal sac and nasal duct.' At the outer angle of the upper lid the lachrymal ducts open on its free surface ; and at the inner angle of the eye it forms a semilunar fold, the plica semilunaris. The line of reflection of the conjunctiva from the upper Hd on to the eyeball is named the fornix conjunctivce superior and that from the lower lid the fornix conjunctivae inferior. Upon the sclera the conjunctiva is loosely connected to the globe ; it becomes thinner, loses its papillary structure, is transparent, and only slightly vascular in health. Upon the corriea, the conjunctiva consists only of epithelium, constituting the stratified epithelium of the cornea, akeady described (see page 1013). Lymphatics arise in the conjunctiva in a delicate zone around the cornea, from which the vessels run to the ocular conjunctiva. In and near tlie fornices, but more plentiful in the upper than in the lower lid, a number of convoluted tubular glands open on the surface of the con- junctiva. Other glands, analogous to'lymphoid follicles, and called by Henle trachoma glands, are found in the conjunctiva, and, according to Strohmeyer, are chiefly situated near the inner cantiius of the eye. They were first described by Brush, m his description of Peyer's patches of the small intestine, as ' identical structures existing in the under eyelid of the ox.' The caruncula lacrimalis is a small, reddish, conical-shaped body, situated at the irmer canthus of the eye, and filling up the lacus lacrimalis. It consists of a small island of skin contaming sebaceous and sweat glands, and is the source of the whitish secretion which constantly collects at the inner angle of the eye. A few slender hairs are attaclied to its surface. On the outer side of the caruncula is a slight semilunar fold of mucous membrane, the concavity of which is dii-ected towards the cornea ; it is called the plica semihinaris. MiiUer found smooth muscular fibres in this fold, and in some of the domesticated animals a thin plate of cartilage has been discovered. This structure is considered to be the rudiment of the third eyeUd in birds, the membrana nictitans. The nerves in the conjunctiva are numerous and form rich plexuses. According to Krause they terminate in a pecuhar form of tactile corpuscle, -which he terms ' teiminal bulb.'