393 ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS the articular processes and forming a double artlirodia. 5. Inter- and supra- ^^"t\vo additional ligaments connect the pelvis with the vertebral column; these are the lumbo-sacral and the ilio-lumbar. , . , , . , The Lumbo-sacral Ligament (fig. 442) is a short, thick triangular fasciculus, which is connected above to the lower and front part of the trans- verse process of the last lumbar vertebra, passes obliquely outwards, and is attached below to the lateral surface of the base of the sacrum, becommg blended with the anterior sacro-iliac ligament. In front this ligament is m relation with the Psoas. ^ , ^, . , j The Ilio-lumbar Ligament (lig. Uiolumbale) (fig. 442), the thickened lower edge of the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia, passes horizontally outwards from the apex of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to the crest of the ilium immediately m front of the sacro-iliac articulation. Fig. 442.—Articulations of pelvis and hip. Anterior view, tfi'lfl Aperture of communication with bursa under Psoas and Iliacns It is of a triangular form, thick and narrow internally, broad and thin externally. In front it is in relation with the Psoas ; behind, with the muscles occupying the vertebral groove ; above, with the Quadratus lumborum. IX. AKTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS The ligaments connecting the bones of the pelvis with each other may be divided into four groups : 1. Those connecting the sacrum and ilium. 2. Those passing between the sacrum and ischium.. 3. Those uniting the sacrum and coccyx. 4. Those between the two pubic bones. 1. Articulation of the Sacrum and Ilium (Aeticulatio Sacroiliaca) The sacro-iliac articulation is an amphiarthrodial jomt, formed between the lateral surfaces of the sacrum and the ilium. The articular, ear-shaped surface of each bone is covered with a thin plate of cartilage, thicker on the 8a,crum than on the ilium. These cartilaginous plates are in close contact with each other, and to a certain extent are united together by irregular