228 OSTEOLOGY passage of filaments to the utricle and the superior and external semicircular canals, and, in front, the area facialis, with one large opening, the commence- ment of the aquceductus Fallopii (canalis faciaUs), for the passage of the facial nerve. (2) Behind the meatus acusticus is a small slit almost hidden by a thin plate of bone, leading to a canal, the aqnoeductus vestibuli, which transmits the ductus endolymphaticus together ^\'ith a small artery and vein. (3) In the interval between these two openmgs, but above them, is an irregular depression which lodges a j)rocess of the dura mater and transmits a small vein. In tlie infant this depression is represented by a large fossa, the fossa subarcuala, which extends backwards as a blind tunnel under the superior semicircular canal. The inferior surface (fig. 297) is rough and irregular, and forms part of the exterior of the base of the skull. It presents eleven pomts for examination : (1) near the apex a rough surface, quadrilateral in form, Avhich serves partly for the attachment of the Levator palati and the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube, and jjartly for connection with the basilar process of the occipital bone through the mtervention of the dense fibrous tissue ; (2) behind this the large circular aperture of the carotid canal (canalis caroticus), M'hich ascends at first vertically, and then, making a bend, runs horizontally foi-wards and inwards ; it transmits into the cranium the mternal carotid artery, and the carotid plexus of nerves ; (3) to Fig. 296. — Diagrammatic view of the fundus of the right internal auditory meatus. (Testut.^ the inner side of the opening for the carotid canal and close to the posterior border, in front of the jugular fossa, is a triangular depression, on the floor of which is a small opening, the aquce- ductus cochlece, which lodges a tubular prolongation of the dm-a mater and transmits a vein from the cochlea to join the internal jugular ; (4) behind these openings a deep depression, the jugular fossa, of variable depth and size in diflFerent skuUs ; it lodges the bulb of the internal jugular vein, and, ^\•ith a similar depression on the front of the jugular process of the occipital bone, forms the jugular foramen ; (5) a small foramen foi the passage of Jacobson's nerve (the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal) ; tliis foramen is seen in the bony ridge dividing the carotid canal from the jugular fossa ; (6) a small foramen in the outer part of the jugular fossa, for the entrance of the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve (Arnold's nerve) ; (7) behind the jugular fossa, a quadrilateral area, the jugular surface. « hich is covered with cartilage in the recent state, and articulates with the jugular process of the occipital bone; (8) the vaginal process, a sheath-like plate of bone, wliich extends backwards from the carotid canal and divides behind into tAvo laminae; the outer lamina is continuous with the tympanic plate, the inner with the outer margin of the jugular surface ; between these laminaj is (9) the styloid process, a sharp spine, about an inch in length ; (10) the stylo-mastoid foramen, a rather large orifice, placed between the styloid and mastoid processes; it is the termnia- tion of the aquteductus Fallopii, and transmits the facial nerve and stylo- mastoid artery ; (11) the auricular fissure (fissura tympanomastoidea), situated between the tympanic plate and niastoid process, for the exit of the auriculai- branch of the pneumogastric nerve. Tlie superior border, the longest, is grooved for the superior petrosal snuis, and gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli ; at its inner extremity is a notch, in wliich the fifth cranial nerve lies. The posterior horrfer is intermediate in length between the superior and the anterior. Its inner half is marked by I. Crista falciformis. 2. Area facialis, witli (2') In- ternal opening of the aquaeductus Fallopii. 3. Ridge separating the area facialis from the area cribrosa superior. -1. Area cribrosa superior, with (4') Open- ings for nerve Blamcnts. 5. Anterior inferior cribri- form area, with (5') the tractus spiralis forammosus, and (5") the canalis centralis of the cochlea. 6. Kidge separating the tractus spu-alis foraminosus from the area cribrosa media. 7. Area cribrosa media, with (7') Orifices for nerves to saccule. 8. Foramen singnlare.