SYNDESMOLOGY 442 The poslei-ior fasciculus (Hg. talofibulare posterius), the strongest and most deeply seated, passes inx^^ards from the depression at the inner and back part of the external malleolus to a prominent tubercle on the posterior surface of the astragalus immediately external to the groove for the tendon of the Flexor longus halluois. Its fibres are almost horizontal in direction. The middle fasciculus (lig. calcaneofibulare), the longest of the three is a narrow, rounded cord, running from the apex of the external malleolus dowTi- wards and shghtly backwards to a tubercle on the outer surface of the os calcis. It IS covered by the tendons of the Peronei longus et brevis. The Synovial Membrane invests the inner surfaces of the ligaments, and sends a duplicature upwards between the lower extremities of the tibia and fibula for a short distance. Eelations.—The tendons, vessels, and nerves in connection with the joint are, in front, from within outwards, the Tibiahs anticus. Extensor proprius hallucis, anterior tibial vessels, anterior tibial nerve. Extensor longus digitonun, and Peroneus tertius ; behind, from within outwards, the Tibiahs posticus. Flexor longus digitorum, posterior tibial vessels, posterior tibial nerve. Flexor longus hallucis ; and, in the groove behind the external malleolus, the tendons of the Peronei longus et brevis. The Arteries supplying the joint are derived from the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial and the peroneal. The Nerves are derived from the anterior and posterior tibial. Movements.—When the body is in the erect position, the foot is at right angles to the leg. The movements of the joint are those of dorsiflexion and extension; dorsiflexion consists in the approximation of the dorsmn of the foot to the front of tlie leg, while in extension the heel is drawn up and the toes pomted down- wards. The malleoh tightly embrace the astragalus in all positions of the joint, so that any slight degree of lateral movement which may exist is simply due to stretching of the inferior tibio-fibular hgameuts, and sUght bending of the shaft of the fibula. The superior articular surface of the astragalus is broader in front than behind. In dorsiflexion, therefore, greater space is required between the two malleoli. This is obtained by a sUght outward rotatory movement of the lower end of the fibula and a stretching of the inferior tibio-fibular hgaments : this outward movement is facihtated by a slight ghcliug at the superior tibio-fibular