592 MYOLOGY the other muscles in the sole of the foot by the external plantar. The First dorsal interosseous muscle frequently receives an extra filament from the internal branch of the anterior tibial nervo on the dorsum of the foot, and the Second dorsal interosseous a twig from tlie external branch of the same nerve. Actions.—All the muscles of the foot act upon the toes, and in describing their action they may be grouped as Abductors, Adductors, Flexors, or Extensors. The abductors are the Dorsal interossei, the Abductor hallucis, and the Abductor minimi digiti. The Dorsal interossei are abductors from an imaginary line passing through the axis of the second toe, so that the finst muscle draws the second toe inwards, towards the great toe, the second muscle draws the same toe outwards, the third draws the third toe, and the fourth draws the fourth toe in the same direction. Like the Interossei in the hand, each assists in flexing the proximal phalanx and extending the two terminal phalanges. The Abductor hallucis abducts the great toe from the others, and also flexes the proximal phalanx of this toe. In the same way the action of the Abductor minuni digiti is two- fold, as an abductor of this toe from the others, and also as a flexor of its proximal phalanx. The adductors are the Plantar interossei, the Adductor obliquus Fig. 552.—^The Dorsal interossei. Left foot. Fig. 553.—^The Plantar interossei. Left foot. hallucis and the Adductor transversus hallucis. The Plantar mterosseous muscles' addnct the third, fourth, and fifth toes towards the imagmary line passing through the second toe, and by means of their insertions into the aponeuroses of the Extensor tendons they assist in flexing the proximal phalanges and extending the middle and terminal phalanges. The Adductor obliquus hallucLs is chiefly concerned in adducting the great toe towards the second one, but also assists in flexing this toe. The Adductor transversus hallucis approximates all the toes and thus increases the curve of the transverse arch of the metatersus. The flexors are the Flexor brevis digitorum, the Flexor accessonus, the i^lexor brevis hallucis, the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the Lumbricales ilie Flexor brevis digitorum flexes the second phalanges upon the hrst, and, continuing its action, flexes the first phalanges also, and brings the tof together The Flexor accessorius assists the long Flexor of the toes and converts the oblique pull of the tendons of that muscle into a direct backward pull upon the t«es. Ihc Fkxor brevis minimi digiti flexes the little toe and draws its metatarsal bone doN - waks and inwards. The Lumbricales, like the corresponding muse es in the IZt aSt in flexing the proximal phalanges, and by their insertions into the long