1083 THE LUNGS be foUowed upwards and backwards across the inner surface as far as the lower part of the hilus. The upper lobe (lobus superior) lies above and ni front of lus Cure and includes the apex, the anterior border, and a «o-ff«-^^^^^ the outer surface and the greater part of the inner surface of the lung ihe lower lobus inferior), the larger of the two is situated below and bdimd the fissure and comprises almost the whole of the base a large portion of the outer surface, and the greater part of the posterior border. Tlie riqU Una is divided into tliree lobes, upper, middle, and lower, by an obHque and a horizontal fissure. The oblique Jissure separates the lower from the middle and upper lobes, and corresponds closely ^^ath the fissure in the left lung. Its direction is, however, more vertical, and it cuts the lower border about three inches behind its anterior extremity. The horizontal fissure separates the upper from the middle lobe. It begins m the obbque fissure near the posterior border of the lung, and, running horizontally forwards, cuts Fig. 896.—Front view of heart and lungs. Ductus ^arteriosus the anterior border on a level ^v ith the sternal end of the fourth costal cartilage ; on the inner surface it may be traced backwards to the hilus. The middle lobe (lobus medius), the smallest of the lobes of the right lung, lies between the horizontal fissure and the lower part of the oblique fissure ; it is wedge-shaped, and includes the lower part of the anterior border and the anterior part of the base of the lung. The right lung is the larger and heavier ; it is broader than the left, owing to the incUnation of tlie lieart to the left side ; it is also shorter by an inch, in consequence of the Diaplu-agm rising higher on the right side to accommodate the liver. The root of the lung (radix pulmonis).—A little above the middle of the inner surface of each lung, and nearer its posterior than its anterior border, is its root, by which the lung is connected to the lieart and the trachea. The root is formed by the bronchus, the pulmonary artery, the pulmonary veins, the bronchial arteries and veins, the pulmonary plexuses of nerves, lymphatics,