THE EYE 1019 The colour of the iris is produced by the reflection of light from dark pigment- cells underlying a translucent tissue, and is therefore determined by the amount of the pigment and its distribution throughout the texture of the iris. The number and the situation of the pigment-cells differ in different irides. In the albino pigment is absent. In the various shades of blue eyes the pigment- cells are confined to the posterior surface of the iris, whereas in grey, brown, and black eyes pigment is found also in the cells of the stroma and in those of the epitheHal layer on the front of the iris. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the iris are derived from the long and anterior ciliary arteries, and from the vessels of the ciliary processes (see page 648). The long ciliary arteries, two in number, having reached the attached margin of the iris, divide each into an upper and lower branch; these anastomose with corresponding branches from the opposite side and thus encircle the iris ; into this vascular zone (ciradus arteriosus major) the anterior ciliary arteries pour their blood. From this zone vessels converge to the free margin of the iris, and there communicate by branches from one to another to form a second zone {circulus arteriosus minor) (figs. 838 and 840). Fig. 840.—^The iris, viewed from in front, with its great and small arterial chcles. (Testut.) 0. Choroid, b. Ciliary muscle, c. Iris. d. Pupil. 1 and 1'. Tlie two long ciliary arteries, with 2, their ascending branch of bifurcation; 3, their descending branch of bifurcation. 4. The anterior ciHary arteries. 5. Circulus major; C, its branches radiating through tlie iris. 7. Circulus minor around the pupil. The nerves of the clwroid and iris are derived from the ciliary branches of the lenticular gangUon, and the long ciliary from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth. They pierce the sclera around the entrance of the optic nerve, rvm forwards in the perichoroidal space, and supply the blood-vessels of the choroid. After reaching the iris they form a plexus around its attached margin ; from this are derived non-medullated fibres which terminate in the circular and radiating muscular fibres. Their exact mode of termination has not been ascertained. Other fibres from the plexus terminate in a network on the anterior surface of the iris. The fibres derived from the motor root of the lenticular ganghon (third nerve) supply the circular fibres, while those derived from the sympathetic supply the rachating fibres. Memhrana fufillaris.—In the foetus, the pupil is closed by a delicate vascular membrane, the memhrana fwpillaris, which divides the space in which the iris is suspended into two distinct chambers. This membrane contains numerous minute vessels, continued from the margin of the iris to those on the front part of the capsule of the lens. These vessels have a looped arrangement, 1