TEMPORAL BONES 229 a sulcus, which forms, with a corresponding sulcus on the occipital bone, the channel for the inferior petrosal sinus. Its outer half presents an excavation —the jugular fossa—which, with a similar notch on the occipital, forms the jugular foramen. A projecting eminence occasionally stands out from the centre of the notch, and divides the foramen into two. The anterior border is divided into two parts—an outer joined to the squamous portion by a suture {pctro-squamoiis), the remains of wliich are more or less distinct ; ail inner, free, which articulates with the spinous process of the sphenoid. At the angle of junction of the petrous and squamous portions are seen two canals, one above the other, and separated by a thin plate of bone, the processiis cochleariformis (septum canalis musculotubarii) ; they both lead into the tympanum. The upper one (semicanahs m. tensoris tympani) transmits tlie Tensor tjanpani, the lower one (semicanalis tubse auditiva;) forms the bony part of the Eustachian tube. Fig. 297.—Left temporal bone. Inferior surface. The tj'mpanic cavity and auditory ossicles, and the internal ear, are described with the organ of hearing. The tympanic plate (pars tympanica) consists of a cui'ved plate of bone lying below the squamous portion and in front of the mastoid process. Its poslero-superior surface is concave, and forms the anterior wall, the floor, and part of the posterior wall of the bony external auditory meatus. Internally, it presents a narrow furrow, the sulcus tympanicus, for the attachment of the membrana tympani. Its antero-inferior surface is quadi'ilateral and slightly concave; it constitutes the posterior boundary of the glenoid cavity, and is in contact with the retro-mandibular part of the parotid gland. Its outer border is free and rough ; it is named the external auditory process, and gives attachment to the cartilaginous part of the external auditory meatus. Inter- nally, the tympanic plate is fused with the j)etrous portion, and appears in the retreating angle between it and the squamous portion, where it lies below and to the outer side of the orifice of the Eustachian tube. Posteriorly, it blends with the squamous and mastoid parts, and forms the anterior boundarj^