1224 SPL.\NCHNOLOGY It is in relation with tlio pelvic colon, from which it is usually separated bv some coils ot small intestine. ' The superior surface is part of the fundus. It is sligiitly convex in all directions, and covered by peritoneum continuous with that on the anterior and posterior surfaces. On it rest some coils of small intestine, and occasion- ally the distended pelvic colon. The lateral margins (margines laterales) arc slightly convex At tlie ui)per end of each the Fallopian tube pierces the uterine wall. Below and in front of this point the round ligament of the uterus is attached, while behind it is the attachment of the ligament of the ovary. These three structures lie 'within a fold of peritoneum which is reflected from the inargrn of the uterus to the M^all ot the pelvis, and is named the broad ligament. Cervix (cervix uteri).—The cervix is the lower constricted segment of the uterus. It is somewhat conical in shape, with its truncated apex directed downwards and backwards, but is slightly Mdder in the middle than either above or below. Owing to its relationships, it is less freely movable than the body, so that the latter may bend on it. The long axis of the cervix is there- fore seldom in the same straight line as the long axis of the body. The long axis of the uterus as a whole presents the form of a curved line with its concavity forwards, or in extreme cases may present an angular bend at the region of the isthmus. The vaginal wall is attached round the cervix, and di\ades it into two portions: an upper, supravaginal portion, and a lower, vaginal portion. The supravaginal portion (portio supravaginalis) of the cervix is separated in front from the bladder by fibrous tissue {parametrium), w hich extends also on to its sides and outwards between the layers of the broad ligaments. The uterine arteries reach the margins of the cervix in tliis fibrous tissue, w hile on either side the ureter runs downwards and forw^ards in it at a distance of about three-quarters of an inch from the cervix. Posteriorly, the supra- vaginal cervix is covered by peritoneum, which is prolonged below^ on to the posterior vaginal wall, whence it is reflected on to the rectum, forming the recto- vaginal pouch or pouch of Douglas. It is in relation with the rectum, from which it may be separated 1015.—^Vertical transverse section of uterus and upper part of vagina. Fig. Fallnpian tube Interior of the uterus (fi^,. ,. in comparison with the size of the organ. hy coils of small intestine. The vaginal portion (portio vaginalis) of the cer^dx projects free into the roof of the vagina between the anterior and posterior fornices. On its rounded extremity is a small, depressed, some- what circular aperture, the external os (orificium externum uteri), through which the cavity of the cervix communicates with that of the vagina. The external os is bounded by two lips, an anterior (labium anterius cervicis) and a ijosterior (labium posterius cervicis), of whicli tlic anterior is the sliorter and thicker, although, on account of the slope of the cervix, it projects lower than the posterior. Normally botli lips arc in contact with the posterior vaginal wall. 1015).—The cavity of the uterus is small External os