1011 THE EYE from the orbital fat and forming a socket in wliich it plays. Its inner surface is smooth, and is separated from the outer surface of the sclera by the periscleral lymph-space. This lymph-space is continuous with the subdural and subarachnoid spaces, and is traversed by deUcate bands of connective tissue wJiich extend between the capsule and the sclera. Tlie capsule is perforated behind by the cihary vessels and nerves and by the optic nerve, bemg continuous with the sheath of the latter. In front it blends with the ocular conjunctiva, and with it is attached to the ciliary region of the eyeball. It is perforated by the tendons of the ocular muscles, and is reflected backwards on each as a tubular slieath. The sheath of the Superior oblique is carried as far as the fibrous pulley of that muscle ; that on the Inferior obUque reaches as far as the floor of the orbit, to wliich it gives off a slip. The sheaths on the Recti are gradually lost in the perimysium, but they give off important expansions. The expansion from the Superior rectus blends with the tendon of the Levator palpebrse; that of the Inferior rectus is attached to the inferior tarsal plate. These Uvo Recti, therefore, will exercise some influence on the movements of the eyeHds. The expansions from the sheaths of the Internal and External recti are strong, especially that from the latter muscle, and are attached to the lachrymal and malar bones respectively. As they probably check the action of these two Recti they have been named the internal and external check ligaments. Lockwood has described a thickening of the lower part of the capsule of Tenon, which he has named the suspensory ligament of the eye. It is slung like a hammock below the eyeball, being expanded in the centre, and narrow at its extremities which are attached to the malar and lachrymal bones respectively.* The eyeball is composed of segments of two spheres of different sizes. The anterior segment is one of a small sphere ; it is transparent, and forms about one-sixth of the eyeball. It is more prominent than the posterior segment, which is one of a larger sphere, and is opaque, and forms about five-sixths of the globe. The term anterior pole is apphed to the central point of the anterior curvature of the eyeball, and that of posterior pole to the central point of its posterior curvature ; a Hne joining the two poles forms the axis optica. The axes of the eyeballs are nearly parallel, and therefore do not correspond to the axes of the orbits, wliich are directed forwards and outwards. The optic nerves follow the direction of the axes of the orbits, and are therefore not parallel; each enters its eyeball about 1 mm. below and 3 mm. to the inner or nasal side of the posterior pole. The eyeball measures rather more m its transverse and antero-posterior diameters than m its vertical diameter, the former amounting to about 24 mm., the latter to about 23-5 mm.; in the female all three diameters are rather less than in the male. At birth the eyeball has a diameter of about IT'o mm., while at puberty it measures from 20 to 21 mm. The eyeball is composed of tlu-ee tunics, and of three refracting media. Tunics op the Eye (fig. 832) From without inwards the three tunics are: (1) A fibrous tunic (tunica fibrosa ocuU), consisting of the sclera behind and the cornea in front ; (2) a vascular pigmented tunic (tunica vasculosa oculi), comprising, from behmd forwards, the choroid, ciliary body, and iris; and (3) a nervous tunic, the retina. I. The Sclera and Cornea The sclera and cornea (fig. 832) form the external tunic of the eyeball ■ they are essentially fibrous in structure, the sclera being opaque, and forming the posterior five-sixths of the surface of the globe ; the cornea forms the remaining sixth, and is transparent. Tlie sclera has received its name from its extreme density and hardness • It is a firm, unyielding, fibrous membrane, servmg to maintain the form of the globe It IS much thicker behind than in front. Its external surface is ot a white colour, and is in contact with tlie inner surface of the capsule of ienon; it is quite smooth, except at the points where the Recti and ObHqui * See a paper by C. B. Lockwood, Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xx. part i. p. 1 3t2' '