727 THE VEINS very frequent anastomoses are found. The same free communication exists between the veins throughout the whole extent of the spinal canal, and between the veins composing the various venous plexuses in the abdomen and pelvis, e.g. the spermatic, uterine, vesical, and prostatic. Veins have thinner walls than arteries, the difference in thickness being due to the smaller amount of elastic and muscular tissues. The superficial veins usually have thicker coats than the deep veins, and the walls of the veins of the lower limb are thicker than those of the upper. The minute structure of these vessels has been described in the section on Histology (pages 59 and 60). The systemic veins are subdivided into three sets, viz. superficial and deep veins, and venous sinuses. The Superficial or Cutaneous Veins are found between the layers of the superficial fascia, immediately beneath the integument; they return the blood from these structures, and communicate with the deep veins by perforating the deep fascia. The Deep Veins accompany the arteries, and are usually enclosed in the same sheaths with those vessels. With the smaller arteries—as the radial, ulnar, brachial, tibial, peroneal—they exist generally in pairs, one lying on each side of the vessel, and are called vence comites. The larger arteries— such as the axillary, subclavian, popliteal, and femoral—have usually only one accompanying vein. In certain organs of the body, however, the deeji veins do not accompany the arteries ; for instance, the veins in the skull and spinal canal, the hepatic veins in the Uver, and the larger veins returning blood from the bones. Venous Sinuses are channels wliich, in their structure and mode of distribution, differ altogether from the veins. They are found only in the interior of the skuU, and consist of canals formed by a separation of the two layers of the dura mater; the outer coat consists of fibrous tissue, the inner of an endothelial layer continuous with the lining membrane of the veins. THE PULMONARY VEINS The pulmonary veins (venae pulmonales) return the arterialised blood from the lungs to the left auricle of the heart. They are four in number, two for each lung, and are destitute of valves. They commence in a capillary network upon the walls of the au-sacs, where they are continuous with the capUlaiy ramifications of the pulmonary artery, and, joining together, form one vessel for each lobule. These vessels, uniting successively, form a single trunk for each lobe, three for the right, and two for the left lung. The vein fi'om the middle lohe of the right lung generally unites with that from the upper lobe, so that ultimately two trunks from each lung are formed ; they perforate the pericardium and open separately into the upper and back part of the left auricle. Occasionally the three veins on the right side remain separate. Not infrequently, the two left pulmonary veins terminate by a common opening. Within the lung, the branches of the pulmonary artery are in fiont, the veins behiad, and the bronchi between the two. At the root of the lung, the upper pulmonary vein lies in front of and a httle below the pulmonary artery ; the lower is situated below the other structures in the lung root, and on a plane posterior to the upper vein. Behind the pulmonary artery is the bronchus. Within the pericardium, their anterior surfaces are invested by the serous layer of this membrane. The right pulmonary veins pass behind the right auricle and superior vena cava; the left in front of the thoracic aorta. Applied Anatomy.—Thrombosis of larger or smaller branches of the pulmonary veins 18 common in inflamed areas of the lung, or as a consequence of pressure from tumours, but it does not give rise to any special symptoms.