963 BRACHIAL PLEXUS ligament, it perforates the deep fascia and ends in the integument of the palm, communicating with the palmar branch of tlie median nerve. The dorsal cutaneous branch (ramus dorsaiis manus) arises about t\vo inches above the wrist; it passes backwards beneath the Flexor carpi ulnaris, perforates the deep fascia, and, running along the ulnar side of the back of the wrist and hand, divides into branches : one of these supplies the inner side of the little finger ; a second supplies the adjacent sides of the little and ring fingers ; a third joins the branch of the radial nerve wliicli supplies the adjoining sides of the middle and ring fingers, and assists in supplying them ; a fourth is distributed to the metacarpal region of the hand, communicating with, a branch of tlie radial nerve. On the Httle finger the dorsal digital branches extend only as far as the base of the terminal i^halanx, and on the ring finger as far as the base of the second phalanx ; the more distal parts of these digits are supplied by dorsal branches derived from the palmar digital branches of the ulnar. The superficial palmar branch (ramus superficialis) supplies the Palmaris brevis, and the integument on the inner side of the hand, and terminates in two digital branches, which are distributed, one to the ulnar side of the little finger, the other to the adjouaing sides of the little and ring fingers, the latter communicating with a branch from the median. The digital branches are distributed to the fingers in the same manner as the digital branches of the median. The deep palmar branch (ramus profundus), accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar artery, passes betM-een the Abductor and Flexor brevis minimi digiti; it then perforates the Opponens mmimi digiti and follows the course of the deep palmar arch beneath the flexor tendons. At its origm it supplies the muscles of the little finger. As it crosses the deep part of the hand, it supplies aU the Interossei and the two inner Lumbricales ; it ends by supplymg the Adductores transversus et obliquus pollicis and the inner head of the Flexor brevis pollicis. It also sends articular filaments to the wrist-joint. It will be remembered that the inner part of the Flexor profundus digitorum is supplied by the ulnar nerve ; the two inner Lumbricales, which are connected with the tendons of this part of the muscle, are therefore supplied by the same nerve. In hke manner the outer part of the Flexor profundus and the two outer Lumbricales are suppUed by the median nerve. Brooks stated that in twelve iastances out of twenty-one he found that the Third lumbrical received a twig from the median nerve, in addition to its branch from the ulnar. The musculo-spiral (n. radialis) (fig. 802), the largest branch of the brachial plexus, su^iphes the muscles of the back part of the arm and forearm, and the integument of the same parts, as well as that of the back of the hand. It arises from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, of which it may be regarded as the continuation. Its fibres are derived from tlie sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, and sometimes also from the fifth cervical and first thoracic nerves. At its commencement it is placed first behind the axillary and then behind the upper part of the brachial artery, passing down in front of the tendons of the Latissimus dorsi and Teres major. It winds round from the inner to the outer side of the humerus in the musculo-spiral groove with tlie superior profunda artery, between the internal and external heads of the Triceps muscle. It pierces the external intermuscular septum, and descends between tlie Brachiahs anticus and Brachio-radialis to the front of the external epicondyle, where it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. The branches of the musculo-spiral nerve are : The muscular branches are derived from the nerve, at the inner side, back part, and outer side of the arm respectively; they supply the Triceps, Anconeus, Brachio-radialis, Extensor carpi radialis longior, and Brachialis anticus. The internal muscular branches supplv tlie inner and middle heads of the Triceps muscle. That to the inner head of the Triceps is a long, slender falament, which lies close to the ulnar nerve as far as the lower third of the arm, and is therefore frequently spoken of as tlie ulnar collateral. Muscular, Cutaneous. Radial. Posterior interosseous. 3 Q 2