49 NERVOUS TISSUE body there is a free interchange of the funiculi and primitive fibres. In each case, however, the individual fibres remain separate and distinct. It is probable that through this interchange of fibres, every branch passing oft" from a plexus has a more extensive connection with the spinal cord than if it had proceeded to its distribution without forming connections with other nerves. Con- sequently the parts suppUed by these nerves have more extended relations with the nervous centres ; by this means, also, groups of muscles may be associated for combined action. The sympathetic nerves are constructed in the same manner as the cerebro- spinal nerves, but consist mainly of non-medullated fibres, collected in funiculi and enclosed in sheaths of connective tissue. There is, however, in these nerves a certain admixture of medullated fibres, and the amount varies in different nerves, and may be known by their colour. Those branches of the sympathetic which present a well-marked grey colour are composed chiefly of non-medullatcd nerve- fibres, intermixed with a few medullated fibres ; while those of a white colour contain many of the latter fibres, and few of the former. The cerebro-spinal and sympathetic nerve-fibres convey various impressions. The sensory nerves, called also centripetal or afferent nerves, transmit to the nervous centres impressions made upon the peripheral extremities of the nerves, and in this way the mind, through the medium of the brain, becomes conscious of external objects. The centrifugal or efferent nerves transmit impressions from the nervous centres to the parts to which the nerves are distributed, these impressions either exciting muscular contraction, or influencing the processes of nutrition, growth, and secretion. Origins and terminations of nerves.—By the expression ' the terminations of nerve-fibres' is signified their connections with the nerve-centres, and with the parts they supply. The former are sometimes called their origins, or central terminations ; the latter their perifheral terminations. Origins of nerves.—The origin in some cases is single—that is to say, the whole nerve emerges from the nervous centre by a single root; in other instances the nerve arises by two or more roots which come off from different parts of the nerve-centre, sometimes widely apart from each other, and it often happens, when a nerve arises in this way by two roots, that the functioiis of these two roots are different; as, for example, in the spinal nerves, each of which arises by two roots, the anterior of which is motor, and the posterior sensory. The point where the nerve root or roots emerge from the surface of the nervous centre is named the superficial or apparent origin, but the fibres of the nerve can be traced for a certain distance into the substance of the nervous centre to some portion of the grey matter, which constitutes the deep or real origin of the nerve. The centrifugal or efferent nerve-fibres originate in the nerve-cells of the grey substance, the axis-cylinder processes of these cells being prolonged to form the fibres. In the case of the centripetal or afferent nerves the fibres grow inwards either from nerve-cells in the organs of special sense (e.g. the retina) or from nerve-cells in the ganglia. Having entered the nerve-centre they branch and send their ultimate twigs among the cells, without, however, uniting with them. Peripheral terminations of nerves. — Nerve-fibres terminate peripherally in various ways, and these may be conveniently studied in the sensory and motor nerves respectively. Sensory nerves would appear to terminate cither in minute primitive fibrillar or networks of these ; or else in special terminal organs, which have been named peripheral end-organs, and of which there are several principal varieties, viz. the end-bulbs of Krause, the tactile corpuscles of Wagner, the Pacinian corpuscles, and the ncuro-tendinous and neuro-muscular spindles. Termination in fhrillcB. — When a medullated nerve-fibre approaches its termination, the white matter of Schwann suddenly disappears, leaving only the axis cylinder surrounded by the neurilemma. After a time the fibre loses its neurilemma, and consists only of an axis cylinder, which can be seen, in prepara- tions stained with chloride of gold, to be made up of fine varicose fibrils. Finally, the axis cylinder breaks up iiito its constituent primitive nerve-fibrilko, which often present regular varicosities and anastomose with one another, thus forming a network. This network is always distributed to epithelial tissue, the nerve-fibrils lying in the interstitial substance between the epithelial cells, and there ter- minating, though some observers maintain that the actual terminations are