THE NOSE 1009 the nose, the latter being the more common of the two. Lupus and syphilitic ulceration frequently affect the nose, and may destroy the whole of the cartilaginous portion. In fact, lupus vulgaris begins more frequently on the ala of the nose than in any other situation. To examine the nasal cavities, the head should be thrown back and the nose drawn upwards, the parts being dilated by some form of speculum. The posterior nares can be explored by reflected light from the mouth, through which they can be illuminated. The examination is very difficult to carry out, and, as a rule, sufficient information regarding the presence of foreign bodies or tumours in the naso-pharynx can be obtained by the introduction of the finger behind the soft palate through the mouth. The septum of the nose may be displaced or may deviate from the middle line ; this may be the result of an injury or of some congenital defect. Sometimes the deviation may be so gi'eat that the septum may come into contact with the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and may even become adherent to it, thus producing complete obstruction. Perforation of the septum is not an uncommon affection, and may arise from several causes : syphilitic or tuber- culoiis ulceration, blood-tumour or abscess of the septum. When small, the perforation may cause a peculiar whistling sound during respkation. When large, it may lead to the falling in of the bridge of the nose. Epistaxis is a very common affection in children. It is rarely of much consequence, and will almost always subside without treatment ; but in the more violent hsemorrhages of later life it may be necessary to plug the posterior nares. In performing this operation it is desirable to remember the size of the posterior nares. A ready method of regulating the bulk of the plug to fit the opening is to make it of the same size as the terminal phalanx of the thumb of the patient to be operated on. Foreign bodies, such as boot-buttons, are frequently inserted into the nostrils by children, and require some care in removal, as unskilled attempts only result in pushing the foreign body further into the nasal fossa. Bodies which remain in the nose for any length of time set up ulceration of the mucous membrane, sometimes spreading to the bone, and a profuse purulent discharge results. A condition of unilateral nasal discharge in a child is always suggestive of the presence of a foreign body. The removal of such objects is best effected by giving the child an ansesthetic, opening the mouth with a gag, and placing the left forefiiiger in the naso-pharynx, so as to prevent the escape of the body into the air-passages ; the foreign body is then removed through the anterior naris by a suitable scoop or forceps manipulated by the right hand. Enlargement of the mucous membrane covering the inferior turbinated bone or middle turbinated process is a very frequent accompaniment of chronic nasal catarrh. In old-standing cases the bones themselves may become enlarged, constituting the ' hypertrophied turbinals' which are so often the cause of nasal obstruction. In the case of the inferior turbinated the anterior or posterior extremity is usually more especially affected, giving rise to a reddened mass of tissue often confused with a nasal polypus r the appearances, however, are totally different, as the true nasal polypi appear as gUstening greyish-white bodies between the turbinates. Turbinal hypertrophy can be temporarily reduced to a great extent by the local application of cocaine, and if the reduction by this means is to practically the normal condition, then treatment by- application of the galvano-cautery will be sufficient; otherwise the enlarged portion of the bone or bones ^vill require removal by a wire snare after the attachment to the lateral wall of the nasal fossa has been freed, by special nasal scissors, in the case of enlargement of the anterior end, and by the spoke-shave when the posterior end is enlarged. It is highly inadvisable to remove more than is necessary, as too free removal results in a dry condition of the air-passages, which conduces to a chronic dry pharyngitis and laryngitis. Nasal polypi are of frequent occurrence ; in the common gelatinous form they spring from the outer wall of the nasal fossa and project down between the turbinateds, giving rise to obstructed nasal respiration. They are always accompanied by purulent dis- charge, and are due in all instances to small areas of carious bone in the region of the bulla ethmoidalis, or about the ethmoidal or sphenoidal air-cells. They appear as glistening greyish-white bodies swinging on a pedicle, and the larger ones can be encircled with a cold wire snare and thus removed ; usually, however, after the extirpation of the larger ones has been carried out, numerous small polypi can be seen springing from the region of their bases, and cauterisation of such affected areas must be thoroughly canied out if a recurrence of the trouble is to be avoided. In bad cases a free curetting of the ethmoidal air-cells maybe called for after removal of the middle turbinated process. Fibrous polypi are also more rarely met with, and these are of the nature of new growths ; they most frequently spring from the base of the skull behind the posterior nares and form pedunculated tumours occupying the naso-pharynx. Malignant polypi also occur, most commonly origmating in the antrum and projecting through its inner wall into the nasal fossa ; for such cases removal of the maxilla offers the only hope of cure. Suppuration in the accessory nasal sinuses is of frequent occurrence, and in connection with this it is advisable that the student should recollect the situations at which the various sinuses normally communicate with the nasal fossaj: thus one finds they fall into two main groups : the anterior, opening into the middle meatus and draining the maxillary 3t