145 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VEINS knee undergoes atrophy. The anterior and posterior tibial arteries are branches of the main arterial stem. Further development of the Veins.—The formation of the great veins of the embryo may be best considered by dividing them into two groups, visceral and parietal. The visceral veins are the two vitelline or omphalo-mesenteric veins bringing the blood from the yolk-sac, and the two umbiUcal or allantoic veins returning the blood from the placenta ; these four veins open close together into the sinus venosus (fig. 19-1). The vitelhne veins run upwards at first in front, and subsequently on either side of the intestinal canal. They unite on the ventral aspect of the canal, and beyond this are connected to one another by two cross branches, the first on the dorsal, the second on the ventral aspect of the duodenal portion of the intestine which is thus encircled by two venous rings (fig. 193). The por- tions of the veins above the upper ring become invaded by the developing liver and broken up by it into a plexus of small capiUary-Uke vessels termed sinusoids (Mnot). The branches conveying the blood to this plexus are named Fig. 193.—The liver and the veins in connection with it, of a human embryo, twenty-four or twenty-five days old, as seen from the ventral surface. (After His.) Anterior detaclied portions of umbilical veins Vence revehentes Duodenum veins the vence advehentes, and become the branches of the portal vein ; while the vessels draining the plexus into the sinus venosus are termed the venae revehentes, and form the future hepatic veins (figs. 192 and 193). Ultimately the left vena revehens no longer communicates directly with the sinus venosus, but opens into the right vena revehens. The lower part of the portal vein is formed from the fused vitelline veins which receive the veins from the aUmentary canal; its upper part is derived from the venous rings by the persistence of the left half of the lower and the right half of the upper ring, so that the vessel forms a spiral turn round the duodenum (fig. 193). The two umbiUcal veins fuse early to form a single trunk in the body-stalk, but renaain separate within the embryo and pass forwards to the sinus venosus in the side walls of the body. Like the vitelhne veins, their direct connection with the sinus venosus becomes interrupted by the invasion of the hver, and thus at this stage the whole of the blood from the yolk-sac and placenta passes through the substance of the Uver before it reaches the heart. Tlie right umbiUcal vein shrivels and disappears; the left, on the other hand, becomes enlarged and opens into the upper venous ring of the vitelhne veins. L