829 THE CEREBELLUM front and the pyi'amid behind, tlien curves laterally behind the amygdala, and passes for^^■ards along the outer border of tliis lobe, bet\\'een it and the biventral lobe, to join the postnodular fissure. (3) The postpyramidal fissure passes across the vermis behind the pyramid and in front of the tuber valvulae, and, in the hemispheres, courses behind the amygdala and biventral lobes, and then along the outer border of the biventral lobe to the postnodular sulcus. It forms the anterior boundary of the postero-inferior lobe, which, as already stated, is subdivided by the postgracile fissure. These fissures and lobes are here arranged, from before backwards, in a schematic form. Hemisphere Inferior vermis Hemisphere Flocculus. Nodule. Flocculus. Postnodular fissure Amygdala. Uvula. Amygdala. Prepyramidal fissure Biventral lobe. Pyramid. Biventral lobe. Postpyramidal fissure Lobus gracilis. i [ Lobus gracilis. Postgracile fissure. j Tuber valvules, i Postgracile fissure. Inferior semilunar lobe. ' ' Inferior semilunar lobe. The nodule and flocculus,—The nodule is a distinct prominence, forming the anterior extremity of the inferior vermis. It abuts against the roof of the fourth ventricle, and can only be distinctly seen after the cerebellum has been separated from the medulla and pons. On either side of the nodule is a thin layer of white substance, named the inferior medullary velum. It is semilunar in form, its convex border being continuous with the white substance of the cerebellum ; it extends on either side as far as the flocculus, which it connects with the nodule. The flocculus is a prominent, irregular lobule, situated just in front of the biventral lobe, between it and the middle peduncle of the cerebellum. It is subdivided into a few smaU laminae, and is connected to the inferior medullary velum by its central white core. The flocculi, together with the inferior medullary velum and nodule, constitute the lobus noduli. The uvula and amygdalae.—The uvula forms a considerable portion of the inferior vermis ; it is separated on either side from the amygdala by the sidcus valleculce, at the bottom of which it is connected to the amygdala by a ridge of grey matter, indented on its surface by shallow furrows, and hence called the furrowed band. It is marked on its surface by three or four trans- verse fissures. The amygdalae, or tonsils, are rounded masses, situated in the lateral hemispheres. Each lies in a deep fossa, termed the bird's nest (nidus avis), between the uvula and the biventral lobe. The uvula and tonsUs form the lobus uvulae. The pyramid and biventral lobes constitute the lobus pyramidis. The pjramid is a conical projection, forming the largest prominence of the mferior vermis. It is sej)arated from the hemispheres by the sulcus vaUeculae, across which it is connected to the biventral lobe by an indistinct grey band, analogous to tlie furrowed band already described. The biventral lobe is triangular in shape ; its apex points inwards and backwards, and is joined by the connecting band to the pyramid. The external border is separated from the slender lobe by the postpyramidal fissure. The base is directed forwards, and is on a line with the anterior border of the amygdala, and is separated from the flocculus by the postnodular fissure. The tuber valvulae and the postero-inferior lobes collectively form the lobus tuberis. The tuber valvulae is the most posterior division of the inferior vermis. It is of small size, and laterally spreads out into the large jaostero- inferior lobes of the hemispheres. These lobes, as stated above, comprise at least two-thirds of the inferior surface of the hemisphere, and are divided into two by the postgracile fissure. The anterior part is named the slender lobe (lobus gracilis) ; and the posterior, the inferior semilunar lobe. Each of them IS traversed by a curved fissure ; that in the slender lobe being weU marked and termed the intragracile fissure.