LIGAMENTS CONNECTING OS CALCIS AND NAVICULAR 447 of the under surface of the os calcis, to the inferior surface of the cuboid '^"^vnojSal MeSr^al'-^^^^^^ membrane in this joint is distinct fron?Kt of ti?f o??e^ tarsal articulations (fig. 480). It lines the inner surface °^MovSnts;-The movements permitted between the os calcis and cuboid are limited to sU"ht gUding movements of the bones upon each other. it tZverse tarsal or medio-tarsal joint is formed by the articulation of the OS calcis wfth the cuboid, and the articulation of the astragalus with the nav^c- Ir The movement which takes place in this pint is more extensive than that n the other tarsal joints, and consists of a sort of rotation by means of which the foot may be sUghtly fleied or extended, the sole being at the same tmie carried inwards (inverted) or outwards (everted). 4. The Ligaments connecting the Os Calcis and Navicular Though these two bones do not directly articulate, they are connected by two ligaments : Superior or External Calcaneo-navicular. Inferior or Internal Calcaneo-navicular. The Superior or External Calcaneo-navicular Ligament (lig. calcaneo- naviculare dorsale) (fig. 476) arises, as already mentioned with the mternal calcaneo-cuboid in the deep hollow between the astragalus and os calcis , it nasses forwards from the upper surface of the anterior extremity of the OS Balcis to the outer side of the navicular bone. These two ligaments resemble the letter Y, being blended together behind but separated m front. The Inferior or Internal Calcaneo-navicular Ligament (lig calcaneo- naviculare plantare) (fig. 479) is by far the larger and stronger of the two ligaments between these bones ; it is a broad and thick band of fibres, and passes forwards and inwards from the anterior margin of the sustentaculum taU of the OS calcis to the under surface of the navicular bone. This ligament not only serves to connect the os calcis and navicular, but supports the head of the astragalus, forming part of the articular cavity in which it is received The uvper surface presents a fibro-cartilaginous facet, Imed by the synovial membrane continued from the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation, and upon this a portion of the head of the astragalus rests. The under surface is in contact with the tendon of the Tibialis posticus muscle ; its mner border is blended with the fore part of the internal lateral Ugament of the ankle- joint, thus completing the socket for the head of the astragalus. Applied Anatomy.—The inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament, by supportmg tlie head of the astragalus, is principally concerned in maintaining the arch of the foot. When it yields, the head of the astragalus is pressed downwards, inwards, and forwards by the weight of the body, and the foot becomes flattened, expanded, and turned outwards, and exhibits the condition known as flat-foot. This hgament contains a considerable amount of elastic fibres, so as to give elasticity to the arch and sprmg to the foot; hence it is sometimes called the ' spring' ligament. It is supported, on its under surface, by the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, which spreads out at its msertion mto a number of fasciculi, which are attached to most of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. This prevents undue stretching of the Ugament, and is a protection agamst the occurrence of flat-foot, hence muscular weakness is, in most cases, the primary cause of the deformity. 5. The Articulation of the Navicular with the Cuneiform Bones (Artioulatio Cuneonavicularis) The navicular is connected to the three cuneiform bones by : Dorsal and Plantar ligaments. The Dorsal Ligaments are small, longitudinal bands, arranged as three bundles, one to each of the cuneiform bones. The bundle connecting the navicular with the internal cuneiform is continuous round the inner side of the articulation with the plantar ligament which connects these two bones. i