635 POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY The cranial branches of the occipital artery are distributed upon the occiput: they are very tortuous, and He between the integument and Occipito-frontalis, anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side and with the posterior auricular and temporal arteries. They supply the back part of the Occipito-frontalis muscle, the integument, and pericranium. 5. The posterior auricular artery (a. auricularis posterior) (fig. 576) is small and arises from the external carotid, above the Digastric and Stylo- hyoid muscles, opposite the apex of the styloid process. It ascends, under cover of the parotid gland, on the styloid process of the temporal bone, to the groove between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process, immediately above which it divides into its auricular and mastoid branches. Besides several small branches to the Digastric, Stylo-hyoid, and Sterno- mastoid muscles, and to the parotid gland, this vessel gives off three branches : Stylo-mastoid. Auricular. . Mastoid. The stylo-mastoid branch (a. stylomastoidea) enters the stylo-mastoid foramen and supplies the tympanum, mastoid cells, and semicircular canals. In the young subject a branch from this vessel forms, with the tympanic branch from the internal maxillary, a vascular circle, which surrounds the membrana tympani, and from which delicate vessels ramify on that membrane. It anastomoses with the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery by a twig which enters the hiatus Fallopii. The auricular branch (ramus auricularis) ascends behind the ear, beneath the Retrahens auriculam muscle, and is distributed to the back part of the cartilage of the ear, upon which it ramifies minutely, some branches curving round the margin of the fibro-cartilage, others perforating it, to supply the anterior surface. It anastomoses with the posterior branch and also with the anterior auricular branches of the superficial temporal. The mastoid branch (ramus occipitalis) passes backwards, over the Sterno- mastoid muscle, to the scalp above and behind the ear. It supplies the posterior belly of the Occipito-frontalis muscle and the scalp in this situation. It anasto- moses with the occipital artery. 6. The ascending pharyngeal artery (a. pharyngea ascendens) (fig. 580), the smallest branch of the external carotid, is a long, slender vessel, deeply seated in the neck, beneath the other branches of the external carotid and under the Stylo-pharyngeus muscle. It arises from the back part of the external carotid, near the commencement of that vessel, and ascends vertically between the internal carotid and the side of the pharynx, to the under surface of the base of the skull, lying on the Rectus capitis anticus major. It ends by dividing into branches which supply the pharynx and soft palate. Its branches may be divided into five sets; Pharyngeal. Prevertebral. Palatine. Tympanic. Meningeal. The pharyngeal branches (rami pharjaigei) are three or four in number. Two of these descend to supply the Middle and Inferior cojistrictors and the Stylo- pharyngeus, ramifying in their substance and in the mucous membrane lining them. The palatine branch varies in size, and may take the place of the ascending palatuie branch of the facial artery, when that vessel is small. It passes inwards upon the Superior constrictor, sends ramifications to the soft palate and tonsil, and supphes a branch to the Eustachian tube. The prevertebral branches arc numerous small vessels, which supply the Recti capitis antici and Longi colli, the sympathetic, hypoglossal, and pneumo- gastric nerves, and the lymphatic glands ; they anastomose with the ascending cervical artery. The tympanic branch (a. tympanica inferior) is a small artery which passes through a minute foramen in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, in company with the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, to supply the inner wall of the tympanum and anastomose with the other tympanic arteries.