188 ObTEOLOGY and below.* The superior articular processes are thin plates of bone projecting upwards from the junctions of the pedicles and laminae ; their articular facets are practically flat, and are directed backwards and a Uttle outwards and upwards. The inferior articular processes are fused to a considerable extent with the laminae, and project but slightly beyond their lower borders ; their facets are directed forwards and a httle inwards and dowTiwards. The trans- verse processes arise from the same parts of the arch as the posterior roots of the transverse processes in the neck, and are situated behind the superior articular processes and pedicles ; they are thick, strong, and of considerable length, directed obhquely backwards and outwards, and each presents a clubbed extremity, on the anterior part of which is a small, concave surface, for articulation with the tubercle of a rib. The first, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth thoracic vertebrae present certain pecuharities, and must be specially considered (fig. 254). Fig. 253.—thoracic vertebra. The first thoracic vertebra presents, on either side of the body, an entire articular facet for the head of the fii-st rib, and a demi-facet for the upper half of the head of the second rib. The body is hke that of a cevical vertebra, being broad transversely ; its upper surface is concave, and Upped on eitlier side. The superior articular surfaces are obhque, durected upwards and backwards, but not outwards ; the spinous process is thick, long and almost horizontal. The transverse processes are long, and the upper intervertebral notches are deeper than in the other vertebrae of this series. The ninth thoracic vertebra may have no demi-facets beloAv. In some subjects, however, it has two demi-facets on either side ; when this occurs the tenth has demi-facets at the upper part only. .^^„^A^ The tenth thoracic vertebra has (except m the cases just mentioned) an entire articular facet on either side, which is placed partly on the outer surface I'n tCdeventh thoracic vertebra the body approaches in its form and size to that of the lumbar vertebra. The articular facets for the heads of the ribs one on either side, are of large size, and placed chiefly on the pedicles, ^^luch • In quadntpcds tl>c majority of the spinou.. processes "f ^''^ upwards a.Hl backwards, wl.ilc those of the hnnbar region are 'l'^<=«*f "l'^^" ^'^^"^-^ / The change in inclination is e(Tectc<l in one of the lower Ihorac.c points almost directly upwards. This vertebra is known as the antrohnal, and in man it., representative is the eleventh thoracic.