THE LUNGS 1081 The Lungs The lunffS (pulmones) are the essential organs of respiration ; they are two in number/placed one on either side of the chest and separated rom each other by the heart and other contents of the mediastinum. Each lung is conical in shape, and presents for examination an apex, a base, two borders, and two surfaces. ^ t • - tu^ The apex (apex pulmonis) is rounded, and extends into the root of the neck reaching from an inch to an inch and a half above the level of the anterior end of the fii-lt rib. A furrow produced by the subclavian artery as it curves outwards in front of the pleura runs upwards and outwards immediately below the apex. , Tlie base (basis pulmonis) is broad, concave, and rests upon the convex surface of the Diaphragm, ^x\nch separates the right lung from the right lobe of the liver, and the left lung from the left lobe of the liver, the stomach, and spleen. Since the Diaphragm extends higher on the right tlian on the lett side, it follows that the concavity on the base of the right lung is deeper than that on the left. Laterally and behind, the base is bounded by a thin, sharp maro-in AvMch projects for some distance into the phrenico-costal sinus ot tne pleura, between the lower ribs and the costal attachment of the Diaphragm. The base of the lung descends during inspiration and ascends during expu-ation ; its relation to the chest-wall is indicated in figs. 889 and 890. The external or costal surface (facies costaHs) is smooth, convex, ot con- siderable extent, and corresponds to the form of the cavity of the chest, being deeper bcMnd than in front. It is in contact M'ith the costal pleura, and presents in a hardened specimen slight gi-ooves corresponding mth the over- lying ribs. . . + f -fi The inner or mediastinal surface (facies mediastinalis) is in contact \yitn that portion of the pleura which forms tlie lateral boundary of the mediastinal space. It presents a deep concavity which accommodates the pericardial sac ; tliis is larger and deeper on the left than on the right lung, on account of the heart projecting farther to the left than to the right side of tlie mesial plane. Above and behind this concavity is a triangular depression named the hilus (hilus pulmonis), where the structures which form the root of the lung enter and leave the viscus. These structures are invested by pleural membrane, which, below the hilus, forms the Ugamentum latum pulmonis. On the right lung (fig. 894), immediately above the hilus, is an arched furrow which