lOGO SPLANCHNOLOGY Fig. 876.- EPIGLOTTIS -The cartilages of tbe larynx. Posterior view. THVBOID form a subcutaneous projection named the pornum Adaini (prominentia laryngea). This prominence is most distinct at its upper part, and is larger in tlie nialo than in the female. Immediately above it the alas are separated by a V-shaped notch, the thyroid notch (inci.sura thyreoidea superior). The altc are irregularly quadrilateral in shape, their posterior angles being prolonged into processes termed the swperior and inferior cornua. The outer surface of each ala presents an oblique ridge (linea obliqua) which runs dowinvards and forwards from a tubercle situated near the root of the superior cornu, to another on the lower border. This ridge gives attachment to the Sterno-thyroid and Thyro- hyoid, and from the portion of cartilage included between it and the posterior border a part of the Inferior constrictor muscle takes origin. The inner surface is smooth ; above and behind, it is slightty concave and covered by mucous mem- brane. In front, in the re- ceding angle formed by the junction of the alse, are attached the epiglottis, the true and false vocal cords, the Thyro-arytenoideus and Thyro-epiglottideus muscles, and the thyro-epiglottic liga- ment. The upper border is con- cave behind and convex in front; it gives attachmeiit to the corresponding half of the thyro-hyoid membrane. The lower border is con- cave behind, and nearly straight in front, the two parts being separated by the inferior tubercle. A small part of it in and near the median line is connected to the cricoid cartilage by the middle portion of the crico- thyroid membrane. " The posterior border, thick and rounded, receives the insertions of the Stylo- pharyngeus and Palato- pharyngeus muscle^. It terminates above, in the superior cornu, and below, in the inferior cornu. The superior cornu (conui supe- rius) is long and narrow, directed upwards, backwards, and inwards, and ends in a conical extremity, which gives attachment to the lateral thyro-hyoid ligament. The inferior cornu (corini inferius) is .short and thick ; it is directed downwards, with a slight inclination forwards and inwards, and presents, on its inner surface, a small oval articular facet for articulation with the side of the cricoid cartilage. . . i i 4.1 i n During infancy the alaj of the thyroid cartilage are joined to eacla otlior in a narrow, lozenge-shaped strip, named the inlraih/roid carlilfi^je. This s["P extends from the upper to the lower border of the cartilage in the middle Cuneiform cartilage Gomicula laryngis /\ ARYTENOID Insertion of Crico-arijtenoideus 2>osticus Posterior surface Arytenoid cartilages, liasc CRICOID Articular facet fo^' arytenoid cartilage Articular facet for inferior com ii of thyroid cartilage