378 SYNDESMOLOGY to the front of the body of the axis. It is strengthened in the middle line In a rounded cord, which is connected, above, to the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas, and below to the body of the axis, and is a continuation upwards of the anterior common ligament. The ligament is in relation, in front, with the Recti antici majores. The Posterior Atlanto-axial Ligament (fig. 428) is a broad, thin membrane, attached, above, to the lower border of the posterior arch of the atlas ; below, to the upper edges of the laminae of the axis. This ligament supplies the place of the ligamenta subflava, and is in relation, behind, witli the Inferior oblique muscles. The Transverse Ligament (lig. transversum atlantis) (figs. 429, 430), is a thick, strong band, which arches across the ring of the atlas, and serves to retain the odontoid process m contact with its anterior arch. It m concave in front, convex behind, broader and thicker in the middle than at eitlier extremity, and firmly attached on either side to a small tubercle on the inner surface of the lateral mass of the atlas. As it crosses the odontoid process, a Fig. 427.—Occipito-atlantal and atlanto-axial ligaments. Front view. small fasciculus {crus superius) is prolonged upwards, and another {crus inferhis) dowTiwards, from the superficial or posterior fibres of the ligament. The former is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, in close relation witli the occipito-axial ligament; the latter descends, to be attached to the posterior surface of the body of the axis ; hence, the whole ligament has received the name of cruciform (lig. cruciatum atlantis). The transverse ligament divides the ring of the atlas into two unequal parts : of tlrese, the posterior and larger serves for the transmission of the spinal cord and its membranes and the spinal accessory nerves ; the anterior and smaller contains the odontoid process. The neck of the odontoid process is constricted where it is embraced posteriorly by the transverse ligament, so that this ligament suffices to retain the odontoid process in position after all the otlier ligaments have been divided. There are four Synovial Membranes in this articulation : one linmg the inner surface of each of tlic capsular ligaments ; one between the anterior surface of the odontoid process and tlie anterior arch of the atlas, and one between the posterior surface of the odontoid process and tlie transverse ligament. Tiio latter often communicates with those between the condyles of the occipital bone and the articular surfaces of tlio atlas.