159 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL from it The duodenum is at first suspended by a mesentery, and projects forwards in the form of a loop. The loop and its mesentery are subsequently displaced by the transverse colon, so that the right surface of the duodenal Fio 212 —Diagrams to illustrate two stages in the development of the human alimentary canal and ite mesentery. The arrow indicates the entrance to the bursa omentahs. astriuitt Ciecum Ifeso- gastrium Greater 'ntrvalure of stomacli Duodenum G rsat omentum Mesocolon Point where intestinal loops cross each other Caecum Vermiform Large appendix intestine Mesenleru Vitelline duct .Rectum ■Large intestine Small intestine Rectum A B mesentery is directed backwards, and, adhering to the parietal peritoneum, is lost. The remainder of the alimentary canal becomes greatly elongated, and as a consequence the tube is coiled on itseK, and this elongation demands a corresponding increase in the width of the intestinal attachment of the mesentery, which becomes folded. At this stage the small and large intestines are attached to the vertebral column by a common mesentery, the coils of the small intestine falling to the right of the middle line, while the large intestine Ues on the left side.* The gut is now rotated upon itself, so that the large intestine is carried over in front of the small intestine, and the caecum is placed immediately below the liver; about the sixth month the cjecum descends into the right iliac fossa, and the large intestine forms an arch consisting of the ascending, trans- verse, and descending portions of the colon—the transverse portion crossing in front of the duodenum and Ijdng just below the greater curvature of the stomach ; within this arch the coils of the small intestine are disposed (figs. 212, 217). Sometimes the downward progress of the cfficum is arrested, so that in the adult it may be found lying immediately below the Uver instead of in the right iUac region. * Sometimes this condition persists throughout life, and it is then found that the duodenum does not cross from the right to the left side of the vertebral column, but lies entirely on the right side of the mesial plane, where it is continued into the jejunum; the arteries to the small intestine (rami intestini tenuis) also arise from the riglit instead of the left side of the superior mesenteric artery. Fig. 213.—Schematic and enlarged cross section through the body of a human embryo in the region of the meso- gastrium. Beginning of third month. (Toldt.) Lesser Liver Stornach omentum Liver Left suprarenal liight suprarenal capsule capsule