MYOLOGY 454 Extensors, Abductors, &c. ; 4, from their shape, as the Deltoid, Trapezius Khoniboideus ; 6, from the number of their divisions, as the Biceps and Tricep'^ • 6, from their pomts of attachment, as the Sterno-clcido-mastoid, Sterno-hyoid' oterno-thyroid. In the dcscriptioi; of a muscle, the term origin is meant to imply its more fixed or central attachment; and the term inseHion the movable point on which t]i<- force of the muscle is applied ; but the origin is absolutely fixed in only a veiv small number of muscles, such as those of the face \vhich are attached by qui- extremity to the bone, and by the other to the movable integument; in the greatci number, the muscle can be made to act from either extremity. In the dissection of the muscles, the student should pay especial attention u< the exact origin, insertion, and actions of each, and its more important relations with surrounding parts. While accurate Icnowledge of the points of attachment of the muscles is of great importance in the determination of their actions, it is not t<, be regarded as conclusive. The action of a muscle deduced from its attachment,-, or even by pulling on it in the dead subject, is not necessarily its action in tin- livmg. By pulling, for example, on the Brachio-radialis in the cadaver the hand may be shglitly supinated when in the prone position and slightly pronated when in the supine position, but there is no evidence that these actions are performed by the muscle during Hfe. It is impossible for an individual to throw into action any one muscle ; in other words, movements, not muscles, are represented in the central nervous system. To carry out a movement a definite combination of muscles is called into play, and the individual has no power either to leave out a muscle from this combination, or to add one to it. One (or more) muscle of the combination is the chief moving force ; when this muscle passes over more than one joint other muscles (synergic muscles) come into play to inhibit the move- ments not required ; a third set of muscles (fixation muscles) fix the hmb—i.e. in the case of the limb-movements—and also prevent disturbances of the equihbrium of the body generally. As an example, the movement of the closing of the fist may be considered: (1) the prime movers are the Flexores digitorum, Flexor longus pollicis, and the small muscles of the thumb ; (2) the synergic muscles are the Extensores carpi, which prevent flexion of the wrist; while (3) the fixation muscles are the Biceps and Triceps, which steady the elbow and shoulder. A further point which must be borne in mind in considering the actions of muscles is that in certain positions a movement can be effected by gravity, and in such a case the muscles acting are the antagonists of those which might be supposed to be in action. Thus in flexing the trunk when no resistance is interposed the Erectores spina? contract to regulate the action of gravity, and the Eecti abdominis are relaxed.* By a consideration of the action of the muscles, the surgeon is able to explain the causes of displacement in various forms of fracture, and the causes which produce distortion in various deformities, and, consequently, to adopt appropriate treatment in each case. The relations, also, of some of the muscles, especially those in immediate apposition with the larger blood-vessels, and the surface- markings they produce, should be carefully remembered, as they form useful guides in the appHcation of Ugatures to those vessels. Applied Anatomy.—Degeneration of muscular tissue is important clinically, and is met with in two main conditions. In one, the degeneration is myopathic, or primary in the muscles themselves ; in the other it is neuropatliic. or secondarj' to some lesion of the nervous sjrstem—a hfemorrhage into the brain, for example, or injurj- or inflammation of some part of the spinal cord or peripheral nerves. In either case more or less paral^-sis and atrophy of the affected muscles result. IrtTien the degeneration begins primarily in the muscles, liowever, it often liappens that though the muscle-fibres waste away, their place is taken by fibrous and fatty tissue to such an extent that the affected muscles increase in volume, and actually ajjpear to liyi^ertrophy. Ossification of muscular tissue a.s a result of repeated strain or injury is not infrequeni. It is oftencst found about the tendon of tlie Adductor longus and Vastus internus in horse- men, or in the Pcctoralis major and Deltoid of soldiers. It may take the form of exo.stoses firmly fixed to the bone—e.g. ' rider's bone ' on the femur (page 573)—or of layers or spicules of bone lying in the muscles or tlieir fascia? and tendons. Busse states that these hony deposits are preceded by a hsemorrhagic myositis due to injury, tlie effused blood organising and being finally converted into bone! In the rarer disease, progressive myositis ossificans. * Consult in this connection the Croonian Lectures (1903) on ' Muscular Movements and their representation in the Central Nervous System,' by Charles E. Heevor. M.D.