548 MYOLOGY Fia. 526. -Posterior surface of the forearm. Deep muscles. External condyle from the triangular depression below that cavity ; and from a tendinous expansion which covers the surface of the muscle. The superficial fibres surround the upper part of the radius, and are inserted into the outer edge of the bicipital tuberosity and the oblique line of the radius, as low down as the insertion of the Pronator teres. The upper fibres of the deeper plane form a sling-like fasciculus, which encircles the neck of the radius above the tuberosity and is attached to the back part of its inner sur- face : the greater part of this portion of the muscle is inserted into the posterior and external surface of the shaft, midway between the oblique line and the head of the bone. The Extensor ossis meta- carpi pollicis (m. abductor poUicis longus) is the most ex- ternal and the largest of the deep Extensor muscles ; it lies immediately below the Supina- tor brevis, with which it is some- times united. It arises from the outer part of the posterior surface of the shaft of the ulna below the insertion of the Anconeus, from the interosse- ous membrane, and from the middle third of the posterior surface of the shaft of the radius. Passing obliquely downwards and outwards, it terminates in a tendon, which runs through a groove on the outer side of the lower end of the radius, accompanied by the tendon of the Extensor brevis poUicis, and is inserted into the outer side of the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. It occasionally gives off two slips near its insertion : one to the trapezium, and the other t.o blend with the origin of the Abductor pollicis. The Extensor brevis pollicis, the smallest muscle of this group, lies on the inner side of the ])receding. It arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the radius below the Extensor Ossis metacar]M liollici.s, and from the intt-i- osseous membrane. Its dire tion is similar to that of tlu- Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, its t^ndoti passing thnuigli the sa^^^^^ groove on the outer side of the lower end of t^he 5f ^m-s to be m er ed hito the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. It is closely connectsci Extensor carpi nuliiilis brevior Extensor carpi radialis longior Extensor arpi ulnaris