155 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL undergoes degeneration, its upper end being represented by the foramen cajcum of the tongue, and its lower by the pyramidal lobe of the thyroid body. The parathyroid bodies are developed as outgrowths from the mner aspects of the third and fourth visceral clefts (hg. 206). , , ■, ^, A pair of diverticula arise behind the fifth arch and form what are termed the postbranchial bodies (fig. 206); these degenerate and disappear at an early stage. The pituitary body, or hypophysis cerebri.—This consists of a large anterior, and a small posterior, lobe : the former is derived from the ectoderm of the stomato- dffium, the latter from the floor of the fore-brain. About the fourth week there appears a pouch-hke diverticulum of the ectodermal lining of the roof of the stomato- dseum. This, the pitui- tarv involution or pouch Fig. 207.—Vertical section of the head in early embryos of of 7?a<Me (fig. 207), is the rabbit. Magnified. (From Mihalkovics.) the rudiment of the an- terior lobe of the pitui- tary body; it extends upwards in front of the cephalic end of the notochord and the rem- nant of the phar}Tigeal septum, and comes into contact with the under surface of the fore-brain. It is then constricted o£E to form a closed vesicle, but remains for a time connected to the ectoderm of the stoma- todaeum by a solid cord of cells. The vesicle sends out hollow pro- cesses into the surroimd- ing mesoderm, and is gradually converted into a mass of small, tortuous tubules lined with co- lumnar or cubical cells. The upwardly directed pituitary involution be- comes applied to the antero-lateral aspect of a downwardly directed diverticulum from the base of the Eore-brain (page 123). This diver ticuliun constitutes the future infundibulum in the floor of the third ventricle, while its lower extremity becomes modified to form the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. In some of the lower animals the posterior lobe contains nerve-cells and nerve- fibres, but in man and the higher vertebrates these are replaced by connective tissue. A canal (cranio-pharyngeal canal) is sometimes found extending from the pituitary fossa to the under surface of the skull, and marks the original position of Rathke's pouch. The further development of the alimentary canal.—The upper part of the fore-gut becomes dilated to form the pharynx (fig. 208), in relation to which the branchial arches are developed (fig. 136) (see page 107) ; the succeeding part remains tubular, and with the descent of the stomach is elongated to form the oesophagus. About the fourth week a fusiform dilatation, the future stomach, A. From an embryo of five millimetres in length. B. Prom an embryo of six millimetres in length, c. Vertical section of the anterior end of the notochord and pituitary body, &c., from an embryo sixteen millimetres long. In A the bucco-pharyngeal membrane is still present. In B it is in the process of disap- pearing, and the stomatodffium now communicates with theprimitire pharynx. am. Amnion, c. Fore-brain, ch. Notochord. Anterior extremity of fore- gut, t. h. Heart, i'. Infundibulum. m. Wall of brain cavity, mc. Mid- brain, mo. Hind-brain, p. Origmal position of pituitary diverticulum, py. ph. Pharynx, sp.e. Spheno-ethmoidal; be. Central; and jp.o. Spheno- occipital parts of basis cranii. lha. Thalamus.