1039 THE EAR little outwards, so as to renderjrthe canal as straight as possible. The points to be noted are, the presence of wax or foreign bodies ; the size of the canal ; and the condition of the membrana tympani. Accumulation of wax is often a cause of deafness, and may give rise to very serious consequences, such as ulceration of the membrane, and it is best removed by s3Tinging. Foreign bodies are not infrequently introduced into tlie ear by children, and, when situated in the first portion of the canal, may be removed with toler- able facility by means of a minute hook or loop of fine wire, aided by reflected light ; but when they have slipped beyond the narrow middle part of the meatus, their removal is in no wLse easy, and attempts to effect it, in inexperienced hands, may be followed by destruction of the membrana tympani and possibly the contents of the tympanum. The calibre of the external auditory canal may be narrowed by inflammation of its lining membrane, rimning on to suppiu'ation ; by periostitis ; by polypi; or by exostoses. At the point of junction of the osseous and cartilaginous portions an obtuse angle, which projects into the tube at its antero-inferior wall, is formed. ThLs produces a sort of constriction in this situation, and renders it a narrow portion of the canal—an important point to be borne in mind in connection with the presence of foreign bodies in the ears. The cartilaginous is connected to the bony part by fibrous tissue which renders the outer part of the tube very movable, and therefore by drawing the pinna upwards and backwards the canal is rendered almost straight. At the external orifice are a few short, crisp hairs, which serve to prevent the entrance of small particles of dust, or flies and other insects. In the external auditory meatus the secretion of the ceruminous glands serves to catch any small particles which may find their way into the canal, and prevent their reaching the membrana tympani, where their presence might excite irritation. The shortness of the canal in children should be borne in mind in introducing the aural speculum, so that it be not pushed in too far, at the risk of injuring the membrana tympani; indeed, even in the adult the speculum should never be introduced beyond the constriction which marks the junction of the osseous and cartilaginous portions, and thus assist the operator in obtaining, by the aid of reflected light, a good view of the membrana tympani. Just in front of the membrane is a well-marked depression, situated on the floor of the canal, and bounded by a somewhat prominent ridge ; in this foreign bodies may become lodged. By aid of the speculum, combined mth traction of the auricle upwards and backwards, the greater part of the membrana tympani is rendered visible. It is a pearly-grey membrane, slightly glistening in the adult, placed obliquely, so as to form with the floor of the meatus a very acute angle (about fifty-five degi-ees), while with the roof it forms an obtuse angle. At birth it is more horizontal, situated in almost the same plane as the base of the skull. About midway between the anterior and posterior margins of the membrane, and extending from the centre obliquely upwards, is a reddish-yellow streak ; this is the handle of the malleus, which is inserted into the membrane. At the upper part of this streak, close to the roof of the meatus, a little white, rounded prominence is plainly to be seen ; this is the processus brevis of the malleus, projecting against the membrane. The membrana tympani does not present a plane surface ; on the contrary, its centre is di-awn inwards, on account of its comiection with the handle of the malleus, and thus the external surface is rendered concave. The connections of the nerves of the meatus explain the fact of the occuiTence, in cases of irritation of the meatus, of constant coughmg and sneezing, from implication of the pneumogastric, and the vomiting which may follow syi-inging the ears of children, and the occasional heart failure similarly induced in elderly people. No doubt also the association of earache with toothache or with cancer of the tongue is due to implication of the inferior maxillary, a branch of the fifth, which supplies also the teeth and the tongue. The upper half of the membrana tjTnpani is much more richly supplied with blood than the lower half. For this reason, and also to avoid the chorda tympani nerve ^^^^ ossicles, mcisions through the membrane should be made at the lower and posterior The Middle Ear, or Tympanxtm 1 4. "^^1? ^^^^^^ or tympanic cavity (cavum tympani) is an irregular laterally compressed cavity, situated \nthin the temporal bone. It is filled with air, and communicates with the naso-pharynx by the Eustachian tube. It contams a cham of movable bones, which connect its outer to its inner wall and serve to convey the \-ibrations communicated to the membrana tympani across the cavity to the internal ear. Tlie tympanic cavity consists of two parts : the airium or tympanic cavity proper, opposite the tympanic membrane, and the attic or recessus epitympani- cus, above the level of the upper part of the membrane ; tiie latter contains the upper half of the malleus and the greater part of the incus. Including tlie attic the vertical and antero-posterior diameters of the tympanic cavity each measures about fifteen millimetres. From mthout inwards it mea.surcs about six millimetres above and four millimetres below ; opposite the centre ot the tympanic membrane it is only about two mimmetres. It is bounded