SURFACE RELATIONS OP INTESTINE 1157 haemorrlioidal branch of the inferior mesenteric, and the anal canal by the middle hfemorrhoidal from the internal iliac, and the inferior ha;morrhoidal from the pudic artery. The superior hemorrhoidal, the continuation of the superior mesenteric, divides into two branches, which run down either side of the rectum to within about five inches of the anus ; they here split up into about six branches, which ])iorce the muscular coat and descend between it and the mucous membrane in a longitudinal direction, parallel with each other as far as the Internal sphincter, where they anastomose with the other hfcmorrhoidal arteries and form a series of loops around the anus. The veins of the rectum commence in a plexus of vessels which sm-rounds the anal canal. In the vessels forming this plexus are small saccular dilatations just within the margin of the anus ; from the plexus about six vessels of considerable size are given off. TTaese ascend between the muscular and mucous coats for about five inches, running parallel to each other; they then pierce the muscular coat, and, by their union, form a single trunk, the superior haamorrhoidal vein. This arrangement is termed the hcemorrhoidal plexus; it communicates wth the tribu- taries of the middle and inferior ha;morrhoidal veins, at its commencement, and thus a communication is established between the systemic and portal cu'culations. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic plexuses around the branches of the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. They are distributed in a similar way to those found in the small intestine. The lymphatics of the large intestine are described on page 785. Surface Relations.—The coils of the small intestine occupy the front of the abdomen, below the transverse colon, and are covered more or less completely by the great omentiun. For the most part the coils of the jejunum occupy the left side of the abdominal cavity, i.e. the left lumbar and ihac regions and the left half of the umbilical region ; while the coils of the ilium are situated to the right, in the right lumbar and ihac regions, in the right half of the umbihcal region, and also in the hypogastric region. The csecum is situated m the right Uiac region. Its position varies slightly, but the mid-point of a line drawn from the anterior superior spinous process of the iUum to the symphysis pubis will about mark the middle of its lower border. It is comparatively superficial. From it the ascending colon passes upwards through the right lumbar and hyijochondiiac regions, and becomes more deejily situated as it ascends to the hepatic flexm-e, which is deeply placed under cover of the liver. The transverse colon crosses the belly transversely on the confines of the umbilical and epigastric regions ; its lower border being on a level sUghtly above the umbihcus, its upper border just below the greater cm-vatm-e of the stomach.* The splenic flexiu-e of the colon is situated behind the stomach in the left hypochondi-ium, and is on a higher level than the hepatic flexmre. The descending colon is deeply seated, passing down through the left hypochondriac and lumbar regions to the sigmoid flexm-e, which is situated in the left Uiac region and can be felt in thin persons, with relaxed abdominal walls, rolhng under the fingers when empty, and when distended forming a distinct tumour. The position of the base of the vermiform appendix is indicated by a point an inch and a half from the right anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, in a fine drawn from this process to the umbihcus. This is known as McBurneiJs spot. Another mode of defining the position of the base of the appendix is to draw a line between the anterior superior ihac spines, marking the point where this line intersects the right semilunar fine. Peristalsis of the coils of the small intestine can be observed in some persons with extremely thin abdominal walls, when some degree of constipation exists; it is, however, of great importance as a diagnostic sign of chronic intestinal obstmction, and when such is suspected, shoiild be always looked for. Owing to the resistance offered to the passage of the bowel contents for some period, hypertrophy of the muscular coats of the intestine takes place, and the peristaltic movements of the distended gut may become distinctly visible through the normal thickness of abdominal wall. In cases of obstruction near the ileo-c£ecal junction the distension of the small intestine gives rise to a marked prominence of the central portion of the abdomen, whereas if the obstruction be low down in the large gut, the whole course of the colon may be seen mapped out, thus giving rise to distension in the flanks and transversely about the level of the umbihcus. Thus valuable information as to the seat of the obstruction may often be obtained from simple inspection of the abdomen. Great distension of the intestines also occurs in peritonitis and in typhoid fever. Upon introducing the finger into the male rectum, the membranous portion of the urethra can be felt exactly in the middle line if an instrimient has been introduced into the bladder ; above this the prostate gland can be recognised by its shape and hardness and any enlarge- ment detected; behind the prostate the fluctuating wall of the bladder when full can be felt, and if thought desirable, can be tapped in this situation ; on either side of and behind the prostate the vesicula seminalis can be readily felt, especially if enlarged by tuberculous ^sease. ^ Behind, the coccyx is to be felt; and on the mucous membrane one or two of Houston s folds. The ischio-rectal fossa can be explored on either side, with a view to * The transverse colon frequently sags downwards, especially in those affected with chronic constipation; when the abdomen is opened it is not unusual to find the upper border of the colon distinctly below the umbilicus, and m some cases the convexity of this portion of the large intestine reaches the pelvic brim.