ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1004 Nasal fossae.—The nasal fossae are two irregular cavities situated one on either side of the mesial plane. They open in front through the nares, and communicate behind through the choanai with the naso-pharynx. The nares are somewhat pear-shaped apertures, each measuring about one inch antero- posteriorly and half an inch transversely at its widest part. Tlie choance are two oval openings which are smaller in the living or recent subject than in the skeleton, because they are narrowed by the mucous membrane. Each measures an inch in the vertical, and half an inch in the transverse direction in a well-developed adult skull. For the description of the bony boundaries of the nasal fossae, see page 275. Inside the aperture of the nostril is a slight dilatation, the vestibule (vestibulum nasi), bounded externally by the ala and outer plate of the lower lateral cartilage, and mternally by the mesial plate of the same cartilage. It is lined by skin, and contains hairs and sebaceous glands, and extends as a small pouch, the ventricle, towards the point of the nose. The fossa, above and behind the vestibule, is divided into two parts: an olfactory portion (regio olfactoria), consisting of the superior turbinated process and the opposed pari of the septum, and a respiratory portion (regio respu-atona), which comprises the rest of the fossa. • . li Outer wall (figs. 826, 827).—The sphenoidal air-sinus opens into the recessu^ spheno-ethmoidalis, a narrow recess above the superior turbinated process. The posterior ethmoidal cells open into the front and upper part ot t le superior meatus. On raising or cutting away the middle turbinated bone the outer wall of the middle meatus is fully exposed, and presents (1) a i-ounclecl elevation, the bulla cihmoidalis, opening on or immediately above wiucn ait the orifices of the middle ethmoidal ccUs ; (2) a deep, narrow, curved grooA C m front of the bulla ethmoidalis, termed the hiatus semilunaris, into tlie Iom ei part of which the antrum of Highmore opens, the orifice bemg placed tiio roof of the antrum. The middle meatus is prolonged, above and m i> to the infundibulum ; this leads mto the frontal smus, and mto it the anterioi 1