THE PHARYNX 1115 part of the second visceral cleft. It is covered by a fold of mucous membrane termed the plica triangularis. Externally the tonsil is in relation with the inner surface of the Superior constrictor, to the outer side of which are the ascending palatine and tonsillar arteries and the Internal pterygoid muscle Tlie internal carotid artery lies behind and to the outer side of the tonsil, and nearly an inch (twenty to twenty-five millimetres) distant from it. The outer surface of the tonsil corresponds in position to the angle of tlie mandible. Its inner surface presents from twelve to fifteen orifices, leading into small crypts or recesses, from which numerous folHcles branch out into the substance of the gland (fig. 920). These follicles are fined by a continuation of the mucous menibrane of the pharynx, covered with epithelium ; around each follicle is a layer of clo.sed capsules consisting of adenoid tissue imbedded in the sub- mucous tissue. Surrounding each follicle is a close plexus of lymphatics, from which the lymphatic vessels pass to the deep cervical glands in the neighbour- hood of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, behind and below the angle of the mandible ; these glands frequently become enlarged in affections of the tonsils. The tonsils form part of a circular band of adenoid tissue M'hich guards the opening into the digestive and respiratory tubes. The anterior part of the ring is formed by the submucous adenoid collections on the posterior part of the tongue ; the lateral portions consist of the tonsils and the adenoid collections in the vicinity of the Eustachian tubes, while the ring is completed behind by the pharyngeal tonsil on the posterior wall of the pharynx. In the intervals between these main masses are smaller collections of adenoid tissue. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the tonsil are the dorsalis linguae from the lingual, the ascending palatine and tonsillar from the facial, the ascending pharyngeal from the external carotid, the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary, and a twig from the small meningeal. The veins terminate in the tonsillar plexus, on the outer side of the tonsil. Tlie nerves are derived from Meckel's gangUon, and from the glosso-pharyngeal. Applied Anatomy.—The tonsils can be easily inspected by instnicting the patient to throw the head back and open his mouth widely ; the tongrie at the same time being depressed by a spatula or tongue-depressor. Tlie normal tonsil should not project beyond the plane of the anterior piUar of the fauces. They are prone to become enlarged, especiaUy in tuberculous children ; and when much increased in size they cause great trouble, o\ving to obstruction to respiration and deglutition. The tonsils may be the seat of acute inflammation, which may run on to suppuration, requiring evacuation of the pus. The incision into the tonsil should always be made from in front backwards and inwards. Another form of acute inflammation of the tonsil is follicular tonsilUtis, due to the lodgment of micro-organisms in the crypts of the tonsil. The removal of an enlarged tonsil is, as a nile, a very simple operation, and is not usually attended with much hasmor- rhage, unless the patient is suffering from hoemophilia. The tonsil may be the seat of malignant growth, either an epithelioma or a Ijrmphosarcoma. The laryngeal part of the pharynx (pars laryngea) reaches from the hyoid bone to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, where it is continuous with the oesophagus. In front it presents the triangular aperture of the larynx, tlie base of which is directed forwards and is formed by the epiglottis, whUe its lateral boundaries are constituted by the aryteno-epiglottic folds. On either side of the laryngeal orifice is a recess, termed the sinus pyri/ormis ; it is bounded internally by the aryteno-epiglottic fold, externally by the thyroid cartilage and thyro-hyoid membrane. structure.—^The pharynx is composed of three coats: mucous, fibrous, and muscular. Thepharyngealaponeurosis,or fihrojiscoat, iasituated between the mucous and muscular layers. It is thick above where the muscular fibres are wanting, and is firmly con- nected to the basilar process of the occipital and petrous portions of the temporal bones. As it descends it diminishes in thickness, and is gradually lost. It is strengthened posteriorly by a strong fibrous band, which is attached above to the pharyngeal spine on the under sui-faceof the basilar portion of the occipital bone, and passes downwards, forming a median raphe, which gives attachment to the Constrictor muscles of the pharynx. The nmcouscoat is continuous with that lining the liustachian tubes, the nasal fossie, the mouth, and the larynx. In the naso-pharynx it is covered by columnar cihated epithelium ; in the buccal and laryngeal portions the epithelium is stratified. Beneath the mucous membrane are found racemose mucous glands ; they are especially numerous at the upper part of the pharynx around the orifices of the Eustachian tubes. The muscular coat has been already described (pages 482 to 484).