VEINS OF THE PELVIS 757 cavernosum, accompany the internal piidic artery, and miite to form a single vessel, which ends in the internal iliac vein. They receive the veins fiom the bulb of the m-ethra, and the superficial perineal and inferior hajmorrhoidal veins (vv. htemorrhoidales inferiores). The deep dorsal vein of the penis communicates with the internal pudic veins, but ends mainly in the vesico-prostatic venous plexus. 4. The obturator vein (v. obturatoria) begins in the upper portion of the adductor region of the thigh and enters the pelvis through the anterior part of the obturator foramen. It runs backwards and upwards on the lateral wall of the pelvis below the obturator artery, and then passes between the ureter and the internal iliac artery, to end in the internal iliac vein. 5. The lateral sacral veins (vv. sacrales laterales) accompany the lateral sacral arteries on the anterior surface of the sacrum and terminate ui the internal iliac vein. 6. The middle hsemorrhoidal vein (v. hsemorrhoidalis media) takes origin m the hajmorrhoidal plexus and receives tributaries from the bladder, prostate gland, and seminal vesicle : it runs outwards on the pelvic surface of the Levator ani to end in the internal iliac vein. The haemorrhoidal plexus surrounds the rectum, and communicates in front with the vesico-prostatic plexus in the male, and the utero-vaginal plexus in the female. It consists of two parts, an interiud in the submucosa, and an exlenuil outside the muscular coat. Below, the internal plexus presents a series of dilated pouches which are arranged in a circle around the tube immediately above the anal orifice and are connected by transverse branches. The lower part of the external plexus is drained by the inferior haemor- rhoidal veins into the internal pudic; its middle part by the middle hfemorrhoidal vein which joins the internal iliac; and its upper part by the superior haemorrhoidal vein which forms the commencement of the inferior mesenteric vein, a tributary of the portal vein. A free communication between the portal and systemic venous systems is established through the liifimorrhoidal plexus. The vesico-prostatic plexus surrounds the prostate gland and the neck of the bladder, and lies partly in the fascial sheath of the prostate and partly between the sheath and the capsule of the gland. In front it receives the deep dorsal vein of the penis ; behind, it communicates with the haemorrhoidal and vesical plexuses, and derives tributaries from the vasa deferentia and vesiculee seminales. It is di-ained into the internal iliac veins by one or more vessels on either side. The corresponding plexus in the female is named the vesico-vaginal. The vesical plexus lies on the muscular coat of the bladder, and is best marked towards -the base and sides of the viscus ; it drains into the vesico-prostatic plexus. Applied Anatomy.—The veins of the haemorrhoidal plexus are apt to become dilated and varicose, and form piles. This is due to several anatomical reasons : the vessels are contained in very loose, lax comiective tissue, so that they get less support from sun'ounding structures than most other veins, and are less capable of resisting increased blood pressure ; the condition is favoured by gi-avitation, being influenced by the erect posture, either sitting or standing, and by the fact that the superior hremorrhoidal and portal veins have no valves ; the veins pass through muscular tissue and are liable to be compressed by its contraction, especially during the act of defseoation ; they are aSected by every form of portal obstruction. The prostatic plexus of veins is apt to become congested in many inflammatory conditions in the neighbourhood, such as acute gonorrhceal prostatitis. It is owing to the free communication which exists between this and the middle htoraorrhoidal plexus that great reUef can be given by free saline purgation. Haamorrhage may be very free from the prostatic plexus after operations on that gland, but can usually be checked by hot fluid irrigation. Septic thrombosis sometimes occurs after operations, and infected emboli may find their way into the general circulation. The dorsal veins of the psnis are two in number, a superficial and a deep. The su2)erjicial vein drains the prepuce and skin of the penis, and, running backwards in the subcutaneous tissue, incHnes to the right or left, and opens into the corresponding superficial external pudic vein, a tributary of the internal or long saphenous vem. The deep vein receives the blood from the glans penis and corpora cavernosa :