609 THE HEART nearly circular outline. It forms a small part of the antero-superior surface and a considerable part of the postero-inferior surface of the heart. It also forms the apex of the heart. Its walls are about three times as tliick as those of the right ventricle. Its interior (fig. 567) presents the following parts for examination : Openings {Left auriculo-ventricular. y^^^^^ j Bicuspid or Mitral. Chordae tendinere. Columns carnese. The left auriculo-ventricular opening is placed below "and to the left of the aortic orifice. It is a little smaller than the corresponding aperture of the opposite side, admitting only two fingers. It is surrounded by a dense fibrous ling, covered by the lining membrane of the heart, and is guarded by the bicuspid or mitral valve. The aortic opening is a circular aperture, in front and to the right side of the auriculo-ventricular, from which it is separated by the aortic cusp of the mitral valve. Its orifice is guarded by tlie aortic valve, which consists of three semilunar segments. The portion of the ventricle immediately below the aortic orifice is termed the aortic vestibule, and possesses fibrous instead of muscular walls. The bicuspid or mitral valve (fig. 565) is attached to the circumference of the auriculo-ventricular orifice in the same way that the tricuspid valve is on the opposite side. It consists of two triangular cusps, formed by duplicatures of the lining membrane, strengthened by fibrous tissue, and containing a few muscular fibres. The cusps are of unequal size, and are larger, thicker, and stronger thari those of the tricuspid valve. The larger cusp is placed in front and to the right between the auriculo-ventricular and aortic orifices, and is known as the aortic cusp ; the smaller is placed behind and to the left of the opening. Two smaller cusps are usually found at the angles of junction of the larger. The cusps of the mitral valve are furnished with chordaj tendine£e, \yhich are attached in a manner similar to those on the right side ; they are, however, thicker, stronger, and less numerous. Tlie aortic valve (fig. 566) consists of three semilunar segments, which surround the orifice of the aorta ; two are posterior (right and left) and one anterior. They are similar in structure, and in their mode of attachment, to those of the pulmonary valve, but larger, thicker, and stronger ; the lunulse are more distinct, and the corpora Arantii tliickerand more prominent. Opposite the segments the wall of the aorta presents slight dilatations {sinuses oj Valsalva), which are larger than those at the origin of tlie pulmonary artery. The columns carnece are of three kinds, like tho&e upon tlie right side, but they are more numerous, and present a dense interlacement, especially at the apex, and upon the posterior wall. I'he miisculi papillares are two in number, one being connected to the anterior, the other to the posterior wall; they are of large size, and terminate by free rounded extremities, from which the chordae tendinea? arise. The chordae tendinea; from each papillary muscle are connected to both cusps of the mitral valve. , ..'''^^^/"terventricular septum (septum ventriculorum) (fig. 568) is directed obhquely backwards and to the right, and is curved with the convexity towards the right ventricle : its margins correspond with the interventricular grooves llie gi-eater portion of it is thick and muscular (septum rausculare ventricu- lorum) but its upper and posterior part, wliich separates the aortic vestibule from tbe lower part of the right auricle and upper part of the right ventricle, IS thin and fabrous, and is termed the pars rnembranacea (septum membrana- ceura ventriculorum). An abnormal communication may exist between the ventricles at this part owing to defective development of the septum. btructure.—The heart consists of muscular fibres, and of fibrous rings which serve tor their attachment. It is covered by the visceral layer of the serous pericardium (cpxcardium), and lined by the endocardium. Between these two membranes is the muscular wall or myocardium. The endocardium is a thin, smooth membrane which lines and gives the ghstemng appearance to the inner surface of the heart; it assists in forming the valves by its reduplications, and is continuous with the lining membrane of the large blood-vessels. It consists of connective tissue and elastic fibres, and is R R