OSTEOLOGY THE general framework of the body is built up mainly of a series of bones, supplemented, however, in certain regions by pieces of cartilage ; the bony part of the framework constitutes the skeleton. in comparative anatoniy the term skeleton has a -ndder apphcation, as m some of the lower animals hard, protective and supporting structures are more extensively distributed, being developed in association with the integu- mentary system. In such animals the skeleton may be described as consisting of an internal or deep skeleton, the endoslceleton, and an external or superficial, the exoskeleton. In the human subject the exoskeleton is extremely rudi- mentary, its only important representatives being the teeth and nails. The term skeleton is, therefore, confined to the endoskeleton, and this is divisible into an axial part, which includes that of the head and trunk, and an appendicular part, M'hich comprises that of the limbs. In the skeleton of the adult there are 206 distinct bones, as follows :— Axial Skeleton Vertebral column .... 26 SkuU 22 Hyoid bone 1 Ribs and sternum .... 25 74 Appendicular I Upper hmbs 64 Skeleton 1 Lower hmbs 62 — 126 Auditory ossicles. ....... 6 Total 206 The patellae are included in this enumeration, but the smaller sesamoid bones are not reckoned. Bones are divisible into four classes : Long, Short, Flat, and Irregular. The Long bones are found in the limbs, and each consists of a shaft and two extremities. The shaft, or diaphysis, is a hoUow cylinder, tlie central cavity being termed the medullary canal; the waU consists of dense, compact tissue of considerable thickness in the middle part of the shaft, but becoming thinner towards the extremities ; the cancellous tissue is scanty. The extremities are generally expanded, for the purposes of articulation, and to afford broad surfaces for muscular attachment. They are usually developed from separate centres of ossification termed epiphyses, and consist of cancellous tissue surrounded by a thin layer of compact bone. The meduUary canal and the spaces in the cancellous tissue are fiUed with marrow. The long bones are not straight, but curved; the curve generally taking place in two planes, thus affording gi-eater strength to the bone. The bones belonging to this class are : the clavicle, humerus, radius, ulna, femur, tibia, fibula, metacarpals, metatarsals, and phalanges. Short bones.—Wliere a part of the skeleton is intended for strength and compactness combined with limited movement, it is divided into a number of small bones, as in the carpus and tarsus. These consist of cancellous tissue covered by a tliin crust of compact substance. The patellce, together \vith the other sesamoid bones, are by some regarded as short bones. Flat bones.—Where the principal requirement is either extensive pro- tection or the provision of broad surfaces for muscular attachment, the bones