HISTOLOGY 10 coloured protoplasm float as tlie first red blood cells.* The erabryoiiic corpuscles are thus nucleated, and, further, they have the power of amojboid movenieiit. These cells disappear in later embryonic life, to be replaced by smaller non- nucleated corpuscles, having all the characters of the adult erythrocytes, and formed, according to Schiifer, within certain cells of the connective tissue. Small globules of reddish colouring matter appear in their protoplasm, and the cells eventually becoming larger, more uniform in size and disc-shaped, float in a cavity which results from the coalescence of numerous vacuoles. After birth the important source of the red corpuscles is the red marrow in the ends of the long bones and especially in the ribs and sternum. Here are found special, nucleated, coloured cells, termed erythroblasts, which are probably direct descendants of the nucleated, embryonic red cells. These er}'throblasts by atrophy and disappearance of their nuclei (or, as some observers maintain, by extrusion of their nuclei) and by assumption of the biconcave form are transformed into the adult red corpuscles. Of the colourless corpuscles of the blood, the lymphocytes are derived from lymphatic tissue generally, and from the lymphatic glands especially, and enter the blood by Avay of the lymph stream ; the hyaline cells probably develop from the lymphocytes, while the eosinophil cells are beheved to originate mainly in the bone marrow and possibly also in the cormective tissues. The plasma or liquor sanguinis, the fluid portion of the blood, has a yellowsh tint, is alkaUne in reaction, and has a specific gravity of 1-028. It contains in solution about 10 per cent, of soUds, of which four-fifths are protein in nature ; the remainder being salts, chiefly chlorides, phosphates and sulphates of the alkali metals ; carbohydrates, chiefly sugar ; fats and soaps ; cholesterin, urea, and other nitrogenous extractives. The proteins are three in number, serum albumin, serum globulin, and Jibrinogen. Fibrinogen is a body of tlie globulin class, but differs from serum globulin in several respects. It is the substance from which the Jihrin, which plays so important a part in the clotting of the blood, is derived. In addition there maybe present in plasma several substances of very great import- ance in connection with immunity, such as antitoxins, opsonins, &c. The chemical nature of these bodies is at present the subject of close investigation, and for a detailed account of them reference should be made to the most recent works on bacteriology. Coagulation of the blood.—When blood is drawn from the body and allowed to stand, it solidifies in the course of a very few minutes into a jelly-hke mass or clot, which has the same appearance and volume as the fluid blood, and, hke it, looks quite uniform. Soon, however, drops of a transparent yellowish fluid, the serum, begin to ooze from the surface of the mass and to collect around it. Coincidentiy the clot begins to contract, so that in the course of about twenty-four hours it has become considerably smaller and firmer than the first formed jelly-hke mass, and is surrounded by a quantity of yellowish serum. The clotting of the blood is due to the formation of a fine mesh work of the insoluble material, /(6rt«, which entangles and encloses the blood corpuscles. Many theories have fi-om time to time been brought forward as to the nature of the processes concerned in the clotting of blood. It is undoubtedly due to a ferment, fibrin-Jerment, acting on Jibrinogen, one of the proteins present in plasma. Under the agency of the hbrin- ferment the fibrinogen is spUt up into an insoluble portion, fibrin, and a soluble portion, fibrino-globuHn, which remains in solution in the serum, llic mode oi formation of the ferment is still the subject of much discussion. It is supposed that when blood is shed, small quantities of a substance, thrombi'lanmc, arc liberated from the leucocytes and blood platelets; thrombokmase is also presenr. in the tissues. It acts on another substance, thrombogen, present in tne blood platelets, and converts it into the actual fibrin-ferment. Thrombogen, l.)e!^lacs existing in the blood platelets, is also present in minute quantities in the ^"^^"lat n plasma. Calcium salts play an important role in the process of the lo"nation of the ferment, for unless they are present in a soluble form the thrombokmase is unable to act on the thrombogen. i • +1,,, Fibrin may be obtained, practically free from corpuscles, by Y'"P "''f . blood, after it has been withdrawn from the body, mth a bundle of tMgs the fibrin adheres to these as it is formed. By various means the clotting ot the * Kecent observations tend to show that the endothelial lining of the vessels and the blood corpuscles are oE entodernial origin.