612 ANGIOLOGY The veins termiuate in the right auricle, and will be described with the general venous system. The lymphatics end in the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. The nerves arc derived from the cardiac plexuses, which are formed partly from the pnevmiogastrics, and partly from the sympathetic. They are freely distributed both on the surface and in the substance of the heart, the separate filaments being furnished with small ganglia. The cardiac cycle and the actions of the valves.—By the contractions of the heart the blood is pumped through the arteries to all parts of the body. These contractions occur regularly and at the rate of about seventy per minute. Each wave of contraction or 'period of aclivity is followed by a period of rest, the two periods constituting what is known as a cardiac cycle. Each cardiac cycle consists of three phases, which succeed each other as follows : (1) a short simultaneous contraction of both auricles, termed the auricular systole, followed, after a slight pause, by (2) a simultaneous, but more prolonged, contraction of both ventricles, named the ventricular systole, and (3) a period of rest, during which the whole heart is relaxed, i.e. in a state of diastole. The auricular contraction commences around the venous openings and sweeping over the auricles forces their contents through the auriculo-ventricular openings into the ventricles, regurgitation into the veins being prevented by the contraction of their muscular coats. When the ventricles contract the auriculo-ventricular valves are closed, and prevent the passage of the blood back into the auricles ; the musculi papillares at the same time are shortened, and, pulling on the chordae tendineaj, prevent the inversion of the valves into the auricles. As soon as the pressure in the ventricles exceeds that in the pulmonary artery and aorta, the valves guarding the orifices of these vessels are opened and the blood is driven from the right ventricle into the pulmonary artery and from the left into the aorta. The moment the systole of the ventricles ceases, the pressure of the blood in the pulmonary artery and aorta closes the pulmonary and aortic valves to prevent regurgitation of blood into the ventricles, the valves remaining shut until reopened by the next ventricular systole. Durmg the period of rest the tension of the auriculo-ventricular valves is relaxed, and blood is flowing from the veins into the auricles and slightly also from the auricles into the ventricles, being aspirated by negative intrathoracic pressure. The average duration of a cardiac cycle is about of a second, made up as follows : Auricular svstole, iV- Auricular diastole, xV- Ventricular systole, fV- Ventricular diastole, fV- Total systole, Complete diastole, i^. The rhythmical action of the heart is muscular in origin, that is to say, the heart muscle itself possesses the inherent property of contraction apart from any nervous stimulation. The more embryonic the muscle the better is it able to mitiate and propagate the contraction wave ; this explains why the normal systole of the heart starts at the entrance of the veins, for there the muscle is most embryonic m nature. At the auriculo-ventricular junction there is a slight pause in the wave of muscular contraction due to the tissue there being less irritable (i.e. less embryonic), lo obviate this as far as possible a peculiar band of marked embryonic type passes across the junction and so-carries on the contraction wave to the ventricles, ihis band, composed of special fibres, the fibres of Purkinje (p. 42), is the auriculo- ventricular bundle of His (p. 611). The nerves, although not concerned m origmating the contractions of the heart muscle, play an important role in regulating their force and frequency in order to subserve the physiological needs of the organism. Surface Marking.-To show the extent of the heart in relation to the f^nt of the chest (fig. 569), draw a line from the lower border of the second left costal cart age. one inch from the sternum, to the upper border of the third right costal cartilage, half aii mch from the sternum. This represents the base line, or upper hmit of the organ lake a point an inch and a half below, and three-quarters of an mcli mternal to the f t mpple-- thatis, about three and a halt inches to the left of the median hnc of the bod> Urn represents the apex of the heart. Draw a line from this ajicx point, witli a sbght con- S Sowrirrds, to the junction of the seventh right cost,al <=f ^''^.f^, -^t^nr: This represents the lower limit of the heart. Join the right extrem. y ^ /l'^; r^eht that is, the ba^e linc-with the right extremity o this Ime- hat is, /"^^^^ | chondi^sternal joint-with a slight curve outwards so that ,t F^ffj^"^^*^"/'^^^^^^ a half from the middle line of the sternum. Lastly, joui the left extremity of the base line and the ai)e,K point by a line curved slightly to the left.