420 SYNDESMOLOGY adduction, extension, abduction, and flexion. No rotation is possible, but the effect of rotation is obtained by the supination and pronation of the radius on the uhia. The movement of flexion is performed by the Flexor carpi radialis. the Flexor carpi ulnaris, and the Palraaris longus ; eoctension by the Extensorcs carpi radialis longior et brcvior and the Extensor carpi ulnaris ; adduction (ulnar flexion), by the Flexor carpi ulnaris and the Extensor carpi ulnaris; and abduction (radial flexion) by the Extensors of the thumb, and'the Extensores carpi radialis longior et brevior and the Flexor carpi radiaUs. When the fingers are extended, flexion of the wrist is performed by the Flexores carpi radialis et ulnaris and extension by the Extensor communis digitorum. When the fingers are flexed, flexion of the wrist is performed by the Flexores sublimis et profundus digitorum, and extension by the Extensores carpi radiales et ulnaris. (2) The chief movements permitted in the transverse or mid-carpal joint are flexion and extension and a slight amount of rotation. In flexion and extension, which are the movements most freely enjoyed, the trapezium and trapezoid on the radial side and the unciform on the ulnar side glide forwards and backwards on the scaphoid and cuneiform respectively, while the head of the os magnum and the superior sm-face of the unciform rotate in the cup-shaped ca^'itv of the scaphoid and semilmiar. Flexion at this joint is freer than extension. " A very trifling amount of rotation is also permitted, the head of the os magnum rotating round a vertical axis drawn through its owii centre, while at the same time a sUght gUding movement takes place in the lateral portions of the joint. VTII. CARPO-METACARPAL ARTICULATIONS (ARTICULATIONES CAEPOMETACARPEjE) 1. Akticulation of the Metacaepal Bone of the Thumb with the Trapezitjm (Artictjlatio Caepometacabpea Poiiicis) This is a joint of reciprocal reception, and enjoys great freedom of movement on account of the configuration of its articular surfaces, which are saddle- shaped, so that, on section, either in the long axis or at right angles to it, one bone appears to be received into a cavity in the other. The joint is surrounded by a capsular ligament. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) is thick but loose, and passes from the chcumference of the upper extremity of the metacarpal bone to the rough edge bounding the articular surface of the trapezium ; it is thickest externally and behind, and lined by a separate synovial membrane. Movements.—In the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thiunb with the trapezium the movements permitted are flexion and extension in the plane of the palm of the hand, abduction and adduction in a plane at right angles to the palm, circumduction, and opposition. It is by the movement of opposition that the tip of the thumb is brought into contact with the palmar surfaces of the shghtly flexed fingers. This movement is effected through the medium of a smaU sloj^ing facet on the anterior hp of the saddle-shaped articular surface of the trapezium. The Flexor muscles puU the corresponding part of the articular surface of the metacarpal bone on to this facet, and the movement of opposition is then carried out by the Adductors. Flexion of this carpo-metacarpal joint is produced by the Flexores longus et brevis polUcis assisted by the Opponens polUcis and the Adductores transversus et obhquus polhcis. Extension is effected mainly by the Extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, assisted by the Extensores longus et brevis polhcis. Adduction is carried out by the two Adductors ; abduction mainly by the Abductor polhcis, assisted by the Extensors. 2. Aetioulations of the Four Innee Metacarpal Bones with the Carpus The joints formed between the carpus and the four inner metacarpal bones are arthrodial joints. The ligaments are : Dorsal, Palmar, and Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments, the strongest and most distmct, connect the carpal and metacarpal bones on their dorsal surfaces. The second meta- carpal bone receives two fasciculi, one from the trapezium, the other from