THE STOMACH 1133 Fig. 933.—Outline of stomach showing its anatomical landmarks. Antrum cardiactim Incisnm an^/ulariti Pylorus Pyloric cnvtt, Sulcus intermedins Piiloric vestibule intestine. It lies more or less horizontally in tlie epigastric, umbilical, and left liypochonclriac regions of the abdomen, and occupies a recess bounded by the upper abdominal viscera, and completed in front and on the left side by tlie anterior abdominal wall and the Diaphragm. The shape and position of the stomach are so greatly modified by changes within itself and in the surrounding viscera that no one form can be described as typical. The chief modifications are determined by (1) the amount of the stomach contents, (2) the stage which the digestive process has reached, (3) the degi-ee of development of the gastric musculature, and (4) the con- dition of the adjacent intestines. It is, however, possible by comparing a series of stomachs to determine certain markings more or less common to all. The stomach presents two open- ings, two borders or curvatures, and tw o surfaces. Openings. — The opening by wliich the oesophagus communicates with the stomach is known as the cardiac orifice, and is situated on the left of the middle Une at the level of the tenth thoracic vertebra. The short intra-abdominal portion of the oesophagus (antrum cardiacum) is conical in shape and curved sharply to the left, the base of the cone being continuous \y\t\\ the cardiac orifice of the stomach. The right margin of the oesophagus is continuous with the lesser curvature of the stomach, while the left margin joins the greater curvature at an acute angle, termed the incisura cardiaca. The pyloric orifice communicates v.'ith. the duodenum, and its position is usually indicated on the surface of the stomach by a circular groove, the duodeno-pyloric constriction. This orifice Ues to the right of the middle line at the level of the upper border of the first lumbar vertebra. Curvatures. — The lesser curvature, ex- tending between the cardiac and pyloric orifices, forms the right or posterior border of the stomach. It descends'as a continua- tion of the right margin of the oesophagus in front of the left crus of the Diaphragm, and then, turning to the right, it crosses the first lumbar vertebra and ends at the pylorus. Nearer its pyloric than its cardiac end is a well-marked notch, the incisura angularis, which varies somewhat in position with the state of distension of the viscus ; it serves to separate the stomach into a right and a left portion. The lesser curvature gives attach- ment to the two layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum, and between these two layers are the gastric branch of the coronary artery and the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. The greater curvature is directed mainly forwards, and is four or five times as long as the lesser curvature. Starting from the cardiac orifice at the incisura cardiaca, it forms an arch backwards, upwards, and to the left ; the highest point of the convexity is on a level \dt\\ the sixth left costal cartilage. From this level it may be followed downwards and for\\ards, with a slight convexity to the left as low as the cartilage of the ninth rib ; it then turns to the right, to end at the pylorus. Directly opposite the incisura angularis of the lesser curvature the greater curvature presents a dilatation, the pyloric vestibule, which is Uraited on the right by a shght groove, the sulcus inter- medius ; this sulcus is about an incli from the duodeno-pyloric constriction. Fio. 934. — Outline of stomach at an early stage of gastric digestion. Incisurn auf/ularis Pylorus Muscular constriction between cardiac and pyloric portions