720 large oval aperture to the deep part of of the neck of the Fig. 622.—Anterior pedis ar tibial and dorsalis teries. Inferior external articular Ant tibial reciM'rentjl J Inferior internal articular ANGIOLOGY above the upper border of the interosseous membrane, the front of the leg : it here lies close to the inner side fibula. It then descends on the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane, gradually approaching the tibia; and, at the lower part of the leg, lies on this bone, and then on the anterior Ugament of the ankle-joint to the bend of the ankle, where it is more superficial, and becomes the dorsalis pedis. Relations.—In the upper two-thirds of its extent, the anterior tibial artery- rests upon the interosseous rtiembraue, to which it is connected by deUcate fibrous arches thrown across it; in the lower third, upon the front of the tibia, and the anterior hgament of the ankle-] oint. In the upper third of its course, it hes between the Tibiahs anticus and Extensor longus digitorum; in the middle third between the Tibiahs anticus and Extensor proprius hallucis. At the bend of the ankle, it is crossed from without inwards by the tendon of the Extensor proprius hallucis, and hes between it and the mnermost tendon of the Extensor longus digitorum. It is covered, in the upper two-thirds of its com-se, by the muscles which he on either side of it, and by the deep fascia ; in the lower third, by the mtegument, anterior annular hgament, and fascia. The anterior tibial artery is accom- panied by two veins (vense comites) which lie one on either side of the artery; the anterior tibial nerve, coursing round the outer side of the neck of the fibula, comes into relation with the outer side of the artery shortly after it has reached the front of the leg; about the middle of the leg it is placed superficial to it; at the lower part of the artery the nerve is generally again on the outer side. Peculiarities in size. — This vessel may • be diminished in size, may be deficient to a greater or less extent, or may be entirely wanting, its place being supplied by per- foratini branches from the posterior tibial 0° by the anterior diN-ision of the peroneal "'^lurse-The artery occasionally deviates in its course towards the fil^">'^V;;J ^j^^^ leg, regaining its usual position beneath the ani ulai- ligament at the front of the ankle I two instances the vessel has been found to approach the surface in the imddle of the leg Sg covered merely by the antegument and fascia below that point. Svrface Marking.—T>r!i\v a, line irom tne inner side of the head of the f u a t o a pomt midwav between the two mallcoh. 1 his me from a point an inch and a quarter below the head of the fibula wiU mark the course ""'XpuT/Anatomy.-T^o anterior tibial artery fshable to be injured in fractures of the