579 MUSCLES AND FASCLE OF THE LEG tibia backwards, with a slight degree of rotation outwards, probably due to the action of the Biceps muscle. The hamstring tendons occasionally require subcutaneous division in some forms of spurious ankylosis of the knee-joint dependent upon permanent contraction and rigidity of the Flexor muscles, or from contracture of the ligamentous and other tissues sun'ounding the joint, the result of disease. This is effected by putting the tendon upon the stretch, and inserting a naiTow, sharp- pointed knife between it and the skin : the cutting edge being then turned towards the tendon, it should be divided, taking care that the wound in the skin is not at the same time enlarged. The relation of the external popliteal nerve, which lies in close apposition to the inner border of the tendon of the Biceps, must always be borne in miad in dividing this tendon, and a free incision with exposure of the tendon, before division, is the safer proceeding. III. Muscles and Fasciae of the Leg The muscles of the leg may be divided into three groups : those on the anterior, those on the posterior, and those on the outer side. 5. Anterior Tibio-fibular Region (fig. 546) TibiaUs anticus. Extensor proprius haUucis. Extensor longus digitorum. Peroneus tertius. The deep fascia of the leg forms a com- plete investment to the muscles, and is fused with the periosteum over the subcutaneous siirfaces of the bones. It is continuous above with the fascia lata, and is attached around the knee to the patella, the ligamentum patellig, the tubercle and tuberosities of the tibia, and the head of the fibula. Behind, it forms the popliteal fascia, covering in the popliteal space ; here it is specially thick, bemg strengthened by transverse fibres, and is perforated by the external saphenous vein. It receives an expansion from the tendon of the Biceps on the outer side, and from the tendons of the Sartorius, Gracilis, Semiten- dinosus, and Semimembranosus on the inner side ; m front, it blends with the periosteum covermg the subcutaneous surface of the tibia, and with that covering the head and external malleolus of the fibula ; below it is continuous with the annular Ugaments of the ankle. It is thick and dense in the upper and anterior part of the leg, and gives attach- ment, by Its deep surface, to the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum muscles; but thinner behind, where it covers the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. It gives off from its deep surface, on the outer % ^.u strong intermuscular •■'Cpta, the anterior and posterior peroneal Fio. 546.—^Muscles of the front of the leg. p P 2