ORGANS OP SPECIAL SENSE 1022 the cone-bipolars ramify in the inner plexiform layer in contact with tlie dendrites of the ganglionic cells. The horizontal cells lie in the outer j^art of the inner nuclear layer and possess somewhat flattened cell bodies. Their dendrites divide into numerous branches in the outer plexiform layer wliile their axons run horizontally for some distance and finally ramify in the same layer. The arnacrine cells are placed in the inner part of the inner nuclear layer, and are so named because they have not yet been shown to possess axis-cylinder processes. Their dendrites undergo extensive ramification in tlie inner plexiform layer. 6. The outer plexiform layer is much thinner than the inner plexiform layer ; but, like it, consists of a dense network of minute fibrils derived from the processes of the horizontal cells of the preceding layer, and the outer processes of the bipolar cells, which ramify in it, forming arborisations around the ends of the rod-fibres and with the branched foot-plates of the cone-fibres. 7. The outer nuclear layer or layer of outer granules.—Like the inner nuclear layer, this layer contains several strata of clear oval nuclear bodies ; they are Fig. 843.—^Plan of retinal neurons. (After Cajal.) Memhrana limitana interna" Nerve-fibre layer" Ganglionic layer— Inner plexiform.. layer Centrifugal fibre ■' Inner nuclear la.yer Fibre of Miiller.. Outer p lexiform... I layer v Outer nuclear _ layer Membrana V limitatis externa Layer of rods and cones Diffuse arnacrine cell ''Arnacrine cells --Horizontal cell -?Bod bipolars — Cone bipolars ■■Pigmented layer of two kinds, and on account of their being respectively connected with the rods and cones of Jacob's membrane, are named rod-granules and cone-granules. The rod-qranules are much the more numerous, and are placed at dilierent levels throughout the layer. Their nuclei present a peculiar cross-striped appearance, and prolonged from either extremity of the cell is a fine process: the outer process is continuous with a single rod of Jacob's membrane ; the inner P^««^f ™^ towards the outer plexiform layer and termmates m an enlarged extremity andTs imbedded in the tuft into which the outer processes of the rod-bipolais wi uT In its course it presents numerous varicosities. The cone-granules fewer in number than the\od-granules, are placed close to the membj^^^^^ limitans externa, through wliich they are continuous with the cones of Jacob ^ membrane. Th^y do ^ot present any cross striping, but contam a pvnjom nucleus which almost completely fills the cell From the mner fx^-'-ty of the araAule a thick process passes inwards to the outer plexiform layei, ^^lleTe Jrelpands into a pyramidal enlargement or foot-plate, from which are given