THE KIDNEYS 1187 Siructure of the tiibuU uriniferi.—The tubuli iiriniferi consist of basement-membrane lined with epithelium. The epithelium varies considerably in different sections of the m-iniferous tubes. In the neck the epithelium is continuous with that lining the Mal- pighian capsule, and like it consists of flattened cells each containing an oval nucleus (fig. 984, a). In the proximal convoluted tubule and the spiral tubule the epithelium is polyhedral in shape, the sides of the cells not being straight, but interlocking with each other, and in some animals so fused together that it is impossible to make out the lines of junction. In the human kidney the cells often present an angular projection of the surface next the basement-membrane. Tliese cells are made up of more or less rod-like fibres, which rest by one extremity on the basement-membrane, while the other projects towards the lumen of the tulbe. Tliis gives to the cells the appearance of distinct striation (Heiden- hain) (fig. 984, b). In the descending limb of Henle's loop the epithelium resembles that found in the Malpighian capsule and the commencement of the tube, consisting of flat, clear epithelial plates, each with an oval nucleus (figs. 984, a; 985). In the ascending limb, on the other hand, the cells partake more of the character of those described as existing in the proximal convoluted tubule, being polyhedi-al in shape, and jDresenting the same appearance of striation. The nucleus, however, is not situated in the centre of the cell, but near the lumen (fig. 984, c). After the ascending limb of Henle's loop becomes narrower upon entering the cortical sti-ucture, the striation appears to be confined to the outer part of the cell; at all events it is much more distinct in this situation ; the nucleus, which appears flattened and angular, being still situated near the Imnen (fig. 984, d). In the Fig. 985.*—Longitudinal section of Fig. 986.—Longitudinal section of Henle's descending limb. straight tube. a. Membrana propria. a. Cylindrical or cubical epithelium. b. Epithelium. b. Membrana propria. UTegular tubule, the cells undergo a still fm-ther change, becoming very angular, and pre- senting thick bright rods or markings, which render the striation much more distinct than in any other section of the luinary tubiiles (fig. 984, h). In the di.stal convoluted tubule the epithelium appears to be somewhat similar to that which has been described as existing in the proximal convoluted tubule, but presents a peculiar refractive appearance (fig. 984, b). In the junctional tubule, just before its entrance into the straight collecting tube, the epithelium varies greatly as regards the shape of the cells, some being angular with short processes, others spindle-shaped, others polyhedral (fig. 984, e). In the straight tube the epitheliiun is more or less columnar : in its papillary portion the cells are distinctly columnar and transparent (fig. 986); but as the tube approaches the cortex the cells are less uniform in shape: some are polyhedral, and others angular with short processes (fig. 984, r and g). The renal blood-vessels.—The kidney is plentifully supplied with blood by the renal artery, a large offset of the abdominal aorta. Before it enters the kidne}', each artery divides into four or five branches ; at the hilus these branches lie between the renal vein and ureter, the vein being in front, the ureter behind ; one branch usually lies behind the ureter. Each vessel gives off some small branches to the sujjrarenal glands, to the ureter, and to the siurounding cellular tissue and muscles. Frequently a second renal artery, termed the inferior renal, is given off from the abdominal aorta at a lower level, and supplies the lower portion of the kidney, whilst occasionally an additional artery enters the upper part of the Iddney. The branches of the renal artery, while in the sinus, give off a few twigs for the nutrition of the surrounding tissues, and terminate in the arlerias proprice renaUs, which enter the kidney proper in the columns of Bertin. Two of these * From the Handbook for the Physiological Luhoratory. 4g 2