OSTEOLOGY 320 knuckles and rocoive the force of any blow which may be given. The liead of the Ihird metacarpal bone is the most prominent, and receives the gi'eater part of the shock of thi- blow. This bone articulates with the os magnum, so that the concussion is carried through tliis bone to the scaphoid and semilunar, with which the head of the os magnuiu articulates, and by these bones is transferred to the radius, along which it may be carried to the capitellum of the humerus. The enlarged extremities of the phalanges can bo plainly felt. \Vlicn the digits are bent, the proximal phalanges of the joints form prominences, which in the joints between the first and second phalanges are sliglit!\ hoUowed, in accordance with the grooved shape of their articular surfaces, while in tho^i between the second and third rows the prominences are flattened and square-shaped. In the palm of the hand the four inner metacarpal bones are covered by muscles, tendons, and the palmar fascia, and no part of them but their heads is to be distinguished. With regard to the thumb, the base of the metacarpal bone forms a prominence on the dorsal aspect, below the styloid process of the radius ; the shaft can be felt, covered by tendons ; it terminates at its head in a flattened prominence, in fi'ont of which can be felt the sesamoid bones. Applied Anatomy.—The carpal bones are little liable to fracture, except from extreme violence, when the parts are so comminuted as to necessitate amputation. Occasionally they are the seat of tuberculous disease. The metacarpal bones and the phalanges are sometimes broken from direct violence. There are two diseases of the metacarpal bones and phalanges which require special mention on account of their frequent occurrence. One is tuberculous dactylitis, consisting in a dejjosit of tuberculous material in the medullary canal, expansion of the bone, with subsequent caseation and necrosis. The other is chondroma, which is perhaps more commonly found in connection with the metacarpal bones and phalanges than with any other bones. The tumours are usually multiple, and spring from beneath the periosteum about the epiphysial line. BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The Os iNNOMiNATtrM The Os Innominatum (os coxae) is a large, iiTegularly shaped, flattened bone, constricted in the centre find expanded above and below. It meet.s its fellow of the opposite side in the middle Hne in front, and together they form the sides and anterior waU of the pelvic cavity. It consists of three parts, the ilium, ischium, and pubis, which are distinct from each other in the young subject, bat are fused in the adult to form a single bone ; the union of the three parts takes place in and around a large cup-shaped articular cavity, the acetabulum, which is situated near the middle of the outer sm-face of the bone. The ilium, so called because it supports the flank, is the superior broad and expanded portion which extends upwards from the acetabulum. The iscJiium is the lowest and strongest portion of the bone ; it proceeds downwards from the acetabulum, expands into a large tuberosity, and then, curving forwards, forms, v>nth the pubis, a large aperture, the obturator forame'n. The pubis extends inwards and downwards from the acetabulum and articulates in the middle hne with the bone of the opposite side : it forms the front of the pelvis and supports the external organs of generation. The Ilium (os ilium) presents for examination two surfaces—an external and an internal—a crest, and two borders—an anterior and a posterior. The external surface of the ilium (fig. 378) is divided into two parts—an upper or gluteal, and a lower or acetabular. The upper or ghdeal portion. known as the dorsum ilii, is directed backwards and outwards behind, and downwards and outwards in front. It is smooth, convex in front, deeplv concave beliind ; bounded above by tlie crest, below by the upper border of tlie acetabulum, in front and behind by the anterior and posterior borders. This surface is crossed in an arched direction by three lines—tl\e superior, middle and inferior curved Hues. The superior or posterior curved line (hnea crlutaea posterior), the shortest of the tliree, begins at the crest, about two mches in front of its posterior extremity; it is at first distinctly niarked, but as it passes downwards to the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch, where it ends, it becomes less distinct, and is often altogether lost. Behind this line is a narrow semilunar surface, the upper part of which is rough and gives origin to a portion of the Gluteus maxinuis ; the lower part is smooth and has no muscular fibres attached to it. The middle curved line (hnea glutaea anterior), the longest of the three, begins at the crest, about an mch and a