glands LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY 777 Applied Anatomy.—Inflammation and sup- jjuration of the popliteal glands are most commonly due to a sore on the outer side of the heel. The inguinal glands frequently become enlarged in diseases implicating the parts from which their lymphatics originate. Thus in malignant or syphilitic affections of the prepuce and penis, or labia majora, in cancer scroti, in abscess in the perinasum, or in similar diseases afifecting the integument and superficial structures in those parts, or the sub-umbihcal part of the abdominal wall, or the gluteal region, the upper chain of glands is almost invariably enlarged, the lower chain being implicated in diseases affecting the lower limb. The lymphatic vessels of the lower extremity consist of two sets, superficial and deep, and in their distribution corre- spond closely with tlie veins. The superficial lymphatic vessels lie in the superficial fascia, and are divisible into two groups : an internal, which follows the course of the internal saphenous vein ; and an external, which accompanies the external saphenous. The vessels of the internal group are larger and more numerous than those of the external group, and commence on the inner side and dorsum of the foot; they pass both in front of and behind the mner ankle, run up the leg with the internal saphenous vein, pass vnth. it behind the inner condyle of the femur, and accompany it to the groin, where they terminate in the infei'ior group of superficial inguinal lymphatic glands. The vessels of the external group arise from the outer side of the foot; some ascend in front of the leg, and, just below the knee, cross the tibia from without inwards, to join the lymphatics on the inner side of the thigh ; others pass behind the outer malleolus, and, accompanying the external saphenous vein, enter the popliteal glands. The deep lymphatic vessels are few in number, and accompany the deep blood-vessels. In the leg, they consist of thi-ee sets, the anterior tibial, posterior tibial, and peroneal, which accompany the corresponding blood-vessels, two or three with each artery ; they ascend alongside tlie blood-vessels, and enter the lymphatic glands in the popliteal space. The deep lymphatic vessels of the gluteal and ischial regions follow the course of the coiTesponding blood- vessels. Those accompanymg the gluteal vessels end in a gland which lies on the intrapelvic portion of the gluteal artery near the upper border of the Fig. 658.—The superficial lymphatics of the lower extremity. Hiiperflciaf iugidnal ■