MUSCLES AND FASCLE OF THE LEG 581 Actions.—The Tibialis anticua and Peroneus tertius are the direct flexors of the foot at the ankle-joint; the former muscle, when acting in conjunction with the Tibialis posticus, raises the inner border of the foot (i.e. inverts the foot) ; and the latter,- acting with the Peronei brevis et longus, raises the outer border of the foot (i.e. everts the foot). The Fig. 547.—Muscles of the back of the leg. Superficial layer. Extensor lojigus digitorum and Extensor »vopropritts hallucis extend the phalanges of the toes, and, continuing their action, flex the foot upon the leg. Taldng their fixed points from below, ia the erect posture, all these muscles serve to fix the bones of the leg in the perpen- dicular position, and give increased strength to the ankle-joint. 0. Posterior Tibio-fibular Region The muscles in this region of the leg are subdivided into two layers— superficial and deep. Those of the superficial layer constitute a poM^erful muscular mass, forming the calf of the leg. Their large size is one of the most characteristic features of the muscular apparatus in man, and bears a direct relation to his ordinary attitude and mode of progression. Superficial Layer (fig. 547) Gastrocnemius. Soleus. Plantaris. The Gastrocnemius is the most superficial muscle, and forms the greater part of the calf. It arises by two heads, which are coimected to the condyles of the femur bj' two strong, flat tendons. The inner and larger head (caput mediale) takes its origin from a depres- sion at the upper and back part of the inner condyle and from the adjacent part of the femur. The outer head (caput laterale) arises from an impres- sion on the outer side of the external condyle and from the posterior surface of the femur immediately above the outer part of the condyle. Both heads, also, arise from the subjacent part of the capsular ligament of the knee. Each tendon spreads out into an aponeurosis, which covers the posterior surface of that portion of the muscle to which it belongs. Fi'om the anterior surfaces of these tendinous expansions, muscular fibres are given off; those of the inner head being thicker and extending lower than those of the outer. The fibres in the median line unite at an angle in a median tendinous raphe, which expands into a broad aponeurosis on the anterior surface of the muscle, and into this the remaining fibres are inserted. The aponeurosis, gradually contract- ing, unites with the tendon of the Soleus, and forms with it the tendo AchiUis. Teiuhns 0/ - Peronei longus et brevis