ETHMOID BONE 239 Perper, Lateral mass Sii2>ei-ior turbinated process Svperior meatus Processus uncina ttis erior turbinated process cular plate to the roof of the nose; those at the inner and outer parts of the groove are larger—the former transmit the nerves to the upper part of tlie nasal septum, the latter those to the superior turbinated process. At the front part of the cribriform plate, on either side of the crista galli, is a small fissui'e which is occupied by a process of dura mater. External to this fissm'e is a notch or foramen which transmits the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve; from it a groove extends backwards to the anterior ethmoidal foramen. The perpendicular plate (lamina perpendicularis) (figs. 307 and 308) is a thin, flattened lamella, polygonal in form, which descends from the under surface of the cribriform plate, and assists in forming I^G- 308.—Ethmoid bone from behind, the septum of the nose; it ^^Crista gain is generally deflected a little to one or other side. Its anterior border articulates with the nasal spine of the frontal bone and the crest of the nasal bones. Its posterior border articulates by its upper half with the crista sphenoidalis, by its lower half Avith the vomer. The inferior border is thicker than the posterior, and serves for the attachment of the septal cartilage of the nose. The surfaces of the plate are smooth, except above, where numerous grooves and canals are seen ; these lead from the inner foramina on the cribriform plate and lodge filaments of the olfactory nerves. The lateral mass (labyrinthus ethmoidahs) (fig. 308) consists of a number of tloin-walled cellular cavities, the ethmoidal cells, arranged in thi-ee groups, anterior, middle, and 'posterior, and interposed between two vertical plates of bone ; the outer plate forms part of the orbit, the inner, part of the correspond- ing nasal fossa. In the disarticulated bone many of these cells are opened into ; but when the bones are articulated, they are closed in at every part, except where they open into the nasal fossa. The upper sxvrface of the lateral mass presents a number of half-broken Fig. 309.—Ethmoid bone. Inner surface of cells, the walls of which are corn- right lateral mass (enlarged). pleted, in the articulated skull, by the edges of the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone. Crossing this surface are two grooves, converted into canals by articu- lation with the frontal; they are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals, and open on the inner wall of the orbit. The posterior surface presents large irregular cellular cavities, which are closed in by articulation with the sphenoidal turbinated bone rp, and orbital process of the palate. -Liie outer surface is formed of a thin, smooth, oblong plate, the os planum (lamma papyracea), which covers in the middle and posterior ethmoidal cells and forms a large part of the inner wall of the orbit; it articulates with the orbital plate of the frontal, below with the maxiUa and orbital process of the palate, in front with the lachrymal, and behind with the sphenoid. In front of the lamina papyracea are some broken air-cells which are overlapped and completed by the lachrymal bone and the frontal process of An irregular lamina, the processus uncinatus, projects downwards ana backwards from this part of the lateral mass. This process, which is often