577 IMUSCLES AND FASCMC OF THE THIGH Actions.—The Gluteus maximus, when it takes its fixed point from the pelvis, extends the femur and brings the bent thigh into a line with the body. Taking its fixed point from below, it acts upon the pelvis, supporting it and the trunk upon the head of the femur; this is especially obvious in standing on one leg. Its most powerful action is to cause the body to regain the erect position after stooping, by drawing the pelvis backwards, being assisted in this action by the Biceps, Semiteudinosus, and Semimemb ranosus. The Gluteus maximus is a tensor of the fascia lata, and by its connection with the ilio-tibial band steadies the femur on the articular surfaces of the tibia during standing, when the Extensor muscles are relaxed. The lower part of the muscle also acts as an adductor and ¥10. 645.—Obtujator extemus muscle. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.) Obturator Anterior division of obturator nerve artery Anterior inferior iliac sjiine Capsular ligament rtly cut away Posterior division of obturator nerve Internal circumfli artery external rotator of the limb. The Gluteus medius and minimus abduct the thi<^h when the limb is extended, and are principally called into action in supportmg the body on one limb, in conjunction with the Tensor fasciee femoris. Their anterior fibres, by dramug the great trochanter forwards, rotate the thigh inwards in which action they are also assisted by the Tensor fascije femoris. The remaiiline muscles are powerful rotators of the thigh outwards. In the sitting posture, when the thigh is flexed upon the pelvis, their action as rotators ceases, and they become abductors mth the exception of the Obturator externus, which still rotates tne lemur outwards. 4. Posterior Femoral Region (fig, 544) Biceps. Semitendinosus. Semimembranosus. .. Tj^^, Biceps (m. biceps femoris) is a large muscle, of considerable length, situated on the posterior and outer aspect of the thigh. It has two heads ot origin : one, the long head (caput longum), arises from the lower and mner impression on the back part of the tuberosity of the ischium by a tendon common to it and the Semitendinosus, and from the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic ligament; the other, or short head (caput breve) trom the outer lip of the linea aspera, between the Adductor ma^nus and