801 THE SPINAL CORD like network, but around the central canal and on the heads of the posterior cornua it consists of the gelatinous substance already referred to (fig. 677). The nerve-cells in tlie grey matter are multipolar, and vary greatly in size and shape (fig. 678). They consist of : (1) motor cells of large size, which are situated in the anterior horn, and are especially numei'ous in the cervical and lumbar enlargements ; the axons of nearly all these cells pass out to form the anterior nerve-roots, but before leaving the white substance they frequently give off collaterals, which re-enter and ramify in the grey matter.* (2) Cells of small or medium size, whose axons do not emerge from the cord but pass into the wliite matter; here some assume an Fig. 677.—Section of central canal of spinal cord, showing ependymal and neuroglial cells, (v. Lenhossek.) EiG. 678.- -Cells of spinal cord. (Poirier.) —Ascending -Collateral -Descending ■ArborisaHon Neuroglial cells Spendymal cells ascending, and others a descend- ing course, but most of them divide in a T-shaped manner into descending and ascending pro- cesses. They give off collaterals which enter and ramify in the grey matter, and the termina- tions of the axons behave in a similar manner. The lengths of these axons vary gi'eatly : some are short and pass only between adjoining segments of the cord, while others are longer and con- nect more distant segments. These cells and their processes constitute a series of association or intersegmental neurons, which link together the different parts of the cord. The axons of most of these cells are confined to that side of the cord in which the nerve-ceUs are situated, but some cross to the opposite side through the anterior commissure, and are termed crossed commissural fibres. Some of these latter end directly in the grey matter, while others enter the white matter, in which they ascend or descend for varying distances, before finally terminating in the grey matter. (3) Cells of the type 11. of Golgi, limited to the posterior horn, and found in the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando, whose axons are short and entii-ely confined to the grey matter, in which they break up into numerous fine filaments. * Lenhossek and Cajal found that in the chick embryo the axons of a few of these nerve- cells passed backwards through the posterior cornu, and emerged as the motnr fibres of the postcrioT nvrve-Toots. These fibres are said to control the peristaltic movements of the intestine, ■their presence, in man, has not yet been determined. 3f Diagram showing in longitudinal section the inter- segmental neurons of tlie spinal cord. The grey and white parte correspond respectively to the grey and white substance of the spinal cord.