MYOLOGY 560 Eia. 535.—Fracture of the middle of the clavicle. considerably from that of the forearm. At the wrist it suddenly becomes hard and dense and covered with a thick layer of cuticle. The skin in the thenar region presents the.se characteristics less than elsewhere. In spite of this hardness and density, the skin of the palm is exceedingly sensitive and very vascular. It is destitute of hair, and coatains no sebaceous follicles. It is tied down by iibrous bands along the lines of flexion of the digits, producing certain furrows of a permanent character. One of these starting from about the tubercle of the scaphoid, curves round the thenar eminence, and ends on the radial border of the hand, a little above the metacarpo- phalangeal joint of the index finger. It corre- sponds to the outer border of the central jjortion of the palmar fascia, and is produced by the movement of the thumb at the carpo-metacar|5iil joint. A second line begins at the end of the first, and extends obliquely across the |)alm, upwards and inwards, to the ulnar margin about the middle of the fifth metacarpal bone. A third commences at the ulnar border of the hand, about an inch below the termination of the second, and extends outwards across the palm over the heads of the third, fourth, and fifth metacarpal bones. The last two lines are caused by flexion of the fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal joiats. Over the fingers the skin again becomes thinner, especially at the flexures of the joints ; and over the termiaal phalanges it is thrown into numerous ridges, in consequence of the an-angement of the papillsB in it. These ridges form, in different individuals, distinctive and permanent patterns, which may be used for purposes of identification. The superficial fascia in the palm is made up of dense fibro-fatty tissue. This tissue binds down the skin so firmly to the deep palmar fascia that very little movement is permitted between the two. Applied Anatomy.—In considering the actions of the various muscles upon fractures of the upper extremity, the most common foi-ms of injmy have been selected both for illus- tration and description. Fracture of the middle of the clavicle (fig. 535) is usually attended with considerable displacement of the outer fragment, which is di-a\vn downwards and inwards, and at the same time rotated, so that its outer end is carried forwards and its inner end backwards. The displacement is produced as follows : the outer fragment is drawn downwards by the weight Yig. of the arm, the Trapezius not being able to support the weight of the limb. It is drawn inwards by the Subclavius and Pectoral is minor, possibly assisted by the Pectoralis major and Latissimus dorsi; and is rotated on an axis drawn through its own centre by the Serratus magnus, which causes the scapula to rotate on the wall of the chest, and carries the acromion and outer end of the outer fragment of the clavicle forwards, and so carries the irmer end of the outer portion backwards. The depression of the whole outer fragment is produced by the weight of the arm and by the contraction of the Deltoid. The causes of displacement having been ascertained, it is easy to apply the appropriate treatment. The outer fragment is to be dra^^^^ outwards, and, together with the scapula, raised upwards to a level with the irmer fragment, and retained in that position. In fracture of the acromial end of the clavicle, between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, only slight displacement occurs, as these ligaments, from their oblique msertion, serve to hold both portions , , .i of the bone in apposition. Fracture, also, of the sternal end mtornal to the clavicular ligament, is attended with only slight displacement, (his ligament serving retain the fragments in close apposition. . „ . r ■ i Fracture of the acromion process outside the ligaments usually arises from violem applied to the upper and outer part of the shoulder. There is great displacement 536.—Fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus. COStd-