502 MYOLOGY upper surface forming the fioorof the former, and its concave under surface the roof of the hitter. Its peripheral part consists of muscular fibres which take origm from the cu-cumference of the thoracic outlet and converge to be inserted into a central tendon. It arises anteriorly by two fleshy slips from the back of the ensiforra cartilage; on either side from the inner surfaces of the cartilages and adjacent portions of the lower six ribs interdigitating with the Transversalis abdominis ; beliind from aponeurotic arches, named the ligamenta arcuata, and from the lumbar vertebrae by two pillars or crura. The ligamenta arcuata are five in number—one mesial, and two, an internal and an external, on either side. The Ugameyitum arcuatum internum is a tendinous arch in the fascia covering the upper part of the Psoas magnus ; its inner end is continuous with the outer tendinous margin of the corresponding cms, and is attached to the outer Fig. 501.—The Diaphragm. Under surface. Ensiforin cartilage side of the body of the first or second lumbar vertebra ; its outer end is fixed to the front of the transverse process of the first and, sometimes also, to that of the second lumbar vertebra. The ligamentum arcuatum externum is the thickened upper margin of the anterior lamella of the lumbar aponeurosis. It arches across the up])er part of the Quadratus lumborum, and is attached by its inner extremity to the front of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, by its outer to the tip and lower margin of the t^'elfth rib. The crura.—At their origins the crura are tendinous in structure, and blend with the anterior common ligament of the vertebral column. The rigid crus, larger and longer than t)ie loft, arises from tlie anterior surfaces of the bodies and intervertebral discs of the upper three lumbar vertebrae, while the left crus arises from the corresponding parts of tiie upper two only. Tlie internal tendinous margins of the crura pass forwards and inwards, and meet