613 THE HEART Tlio position of the various orifices is as follows : the pulmonary orifice is situeated in tlie upper angle formed by the articulation of the third left costal cartilage with the sternum ; the aortic orifice is a little below and internal to this, behind the left border of the sternum, close to the tliird left chondi'osternal articulation. The left auriculo- rentricular opening is behind the sternum, rather to the left of the median line and opposite the fourth costal cartilages. The right auriciilo-ventricular opening is a little lower, opposite the fourth interspace and in the middle line of the body (fig. 569). A portion of the area of the heart thus mapped out is uncovered by lung, and therefore gives a dull note on percussion : the remainder, being overlapped by the lung, gives a more or less resonant note. The former ia known as the area of superficial cardiac dulness ; the latter, as the area of deep cardiac dulness. The area of superficial cardiac dulness is included between a line drawn from the centre of the sternum, on a level with, the fourth costal cartilages, to the junction of the body of the sternum with the ensiform cartilage : fi-om the two extremities of this line, two others are to be dra^vn to the position of the apex of the heart in the fifth intercostal space. Below, this area merges into the dulness which corresponds to the liver. Latham lays down the followng rule as a sufficient practical guide for the definition of the portion of the heart which is imcovered by lung or pleura: ' Make a circle of two inches in diameter round a point midway between the nipple and the end of the sternum.' Applied Anatomy.—Wounds of the heart are often immediately fatal, but not necessarily so. They may be non-penetrating, when death may occur from haemorrhage if one of the coronary vessels has been woxmded, or subsequently from pericarditis. Even a penetrating wound is not necessarily fatal, as a considerable number of cases have now been recorded in which the wound has been sutured.