604 ANGIOLOGY The left margin, or margo ohtusus, is short, thick, and rounded : it is formed mainly by the left ventricle, but to a slight extent, above, by the left auricle. It extends from a point in the second left intercostal space, about an incli from the steinal margin, obliquely downwards, with a convexity to the left, to the apex of the heart. The Right Auricle (atrium dextrum) is the larger of the two auricles, although its walls are somewhat thinner than those of the left, measuring about 2 mm. ; its cavity is capable of containing about two ounces. It consists of two parts : a principal cavity, or sinus venosus (sinus venarum), situated posteriorly, and an anterior, smaller portion, the appendix auriculae. The sinus venosxis is the large quadrangular cavity placed between the two venie cavae. Its walls, which are extremely thin, are connected below with the right ventricle, and internally with the left auricle, but are free in the rest of their extent. The appendix auriculce, so called from its fancied resemblance to a dog's ear, is a small conical muscular pouch, the margins of which present a dentated edge. It projects from the sinus forwards and to\^ards the left side, over- lapping the root of the aorta. The separation of the appendix from the sinus venosus is indicated externally by a groove, the sulcus terminalis (His), which extends from the front of the superior vena cava to the front of the inferior vena cava, and repre- sents the line of union of the sinus venosus of the embryo with the primitive auricle. On the inner wall of the auricle the separation is marked by a vertical, smooth, muscular ridge, the crista terminalis (His). Behind the crista the internal surface of the auricle is smooth, while in front of it the muscular fibres of the wall are raised into parallel ridges resembling the teeth of a comb, and hence named the musculi pectinati. Its interior (fig. 564) presents the following parts for examination : Openings fT 1 (Eustachian. Valves ^rphebesian; 7 Superior vena cava. Inferior vena cava. Coronary sinus. Foramina£fhebesii.J ^ Auriculo-ventricular. Fossa ovalis. . Annulus ovalis. o^t---~-^J-^ f*^* * , » Tubercle of Lower. /^^C^r*^*^ <^^^<^t/^ Musculi pectinati. Crista terminalis. The superior vena cava returns the blood from the upper half of the body, and opens into the upper and back part of the auricle, the direction of its orifice being downwards and forwards. Its opening has no valve. The inferior vena cava, larger than the superior, returns the blood from the low er half of the body, and opens into the lowest part of the auricle, near the ijiterauricular septum, its orifice being directed upwards and in\\ ards. and guarded by a rudimentary valve, the Eustachian valve. The blood \\ hich entei-s the auricle through the superior vena cava is directed downwards and forwards, i.e. towards the auriculo-ventricular orifice, whilst that entering it through the inferior vena cava is directed upwards and backwards towards the interauricular septum. This is tlie normal direction of the two currents in foetal life. The coronary sinus opens into the auricle, between the inferior veiia cava and the auriculo-ventricular opening. It returns blood from the substance of the heart, and is protected by a semicircular valve, the coronmy valve, or valve of Thebesius. The foramina Thehesii (foramina venai-um minimarum) arc depressions in the walls of the auricle : the majority of these are culs-de-sac, but about one-third are the orifices of minute veins {venae minimm cordis), which return blood directly from the muscular substance of tlie lieart. The auriculo-ventricular opeiiing is tlie large oval aperture of communica- tion between the auricle and the ventricle ; it will be described with the right ventricle.