THE SPINAL CORD 809 of only five or six millimetres, and enter the grey matter ; while the inter- mediate fibres, after a somewhat longer course, have a similar destmation. All the fibres whicli enter the grey matter end by arborising around its nerve-cells, those of intermediate length being especially associated with tlie cells of Clarke's column. The course taken by the fibres of the posterior nerve-roots has been arrived at by dividing the nerve-roots between their ganglia and their entrance into Fig. 684.—Dorsal roots entering cord and dividing into Fig. 685.—Formation of the ascending and descending branches. (Van Gelinchten.) fascicuhis gracilis. (Poirier.) Lumbar nerves Sacral nerves a. stem-fibre, b, b. Ascending and descending limbs of bifurcation. c. CoUaterai arising from stem-fibre. the spinal cord, and by subsequently examining the degenerated areas. It has been determined that the fibres pursue an obhque course upwards, being situated at fu-st in the outer part of the fasciculus cuneatus : higher up, they occupy the middle of this fasciculus, having been displaced inwards by the accession of other entering fibres ; while still higher, they pass into, and are contmued upwards in, the fasciculus gracilis. The upper cervical fibres do not reach this fasciculus, but are entirely confined to the fasciculus cuneatus. The degeneration method proves that the localisation of these fibres is very precise : the sacral nerves lie in the inner part of the fasciculus gracilis and near its periphery ; the lumbar nerves to their outer side; the thoracic nerves still more laterally; while the cervical nerves are confined to the fasciculus cuneatus (fig. 685). The development of the spinal cord is described in the section on Embryology (page 115) A'pplied Anatomy.—Several cases have been recorded * in which a local doubling 01 the spinal cord has taken place. The condition is probablj' due to some interference with the development of the medullary tube in the embryo ; in a few it was associated * For a complete analysis of these cases consult paper by Bruce, Stuart McDonald, and 'l ie, Hevunv of Nexi/rology amd Psychiatry, Jan. 1906. Spinal cord viewed from beliind. To tlie left, tlie fasciculus gracilis is sliaded. To the riglit, the drawing shows that the fasciculus irraoilis is formed by tlu; long fibres of the posterior roots, and that in this tract the sacral nerves lie uest the mesial plane, the lumbar to their outer side, and the thoracic still more laterally.