POSTERIOR TRIANGLE OF THE NECK 643 Posterior Triangle of the Neck The posterior triangle is bounded, in front, by the Steino-mastoid muscle ; behind by the anterior margin of the Trapezius ; its base corre- sponds to the middle third of the clavicle ; its apex, to the occiput. The space is crossed, about an inch above the clavicle, by the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, which divides it into two triangles, an upper or occipital, and a lower or subclavian. The occipital triangle, the larger division of the posterior triangle, is bounded, in front, by the Sterno-mastoid ; behind, by the Trapezius ; below, by the Omo-hyoid. Its floor is formed from above downwards by the Splenius capitis. Levator anguli scapulse, and the Middle and Posterior scaleni. It is covered by the integument, the superficial and deep fasciae, and by the Platysma below. The spinal accessory nerve is directed obliquely across the space from the Sterno-mastoid, which it pierces, to the under surface of the Trapezius ; below, the descending branches of the cervical plexus and the transversalis colli vessels and the upper part of the brachial plexus cross the space. A chain of lymphatic glands is also found running along the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, from the mastoid process to the root of the neck. These glands are frequently enlarged and often require removal; when this is the case particular care must be taken not to divide the spinal accessory nerve. The subclavian triangle, the smaller division of the posterior triangle, is bounded, above, by the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid ; below, by the clavicle; its base is formed by the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid. Its floor is formed by the first rib with the first digitation of the Serratus magnus. The size of the subclavian triangle varies with the extent of attachment of the clavicular portions of the Sterno-mastoid and Trapezius, and also with the height at which the Omo-hyoid crosses the neck. Its height also varies according to the position of the arm, being diminished by raising the limb, on account of the ascent of the clavicle, and increased by drawing the arm downwards, when that bone is depressed. This space is covered by the integu- ment, the superficial and deep fascias and the Platysma, and crossed by the descending branches of the cervical plexus. Just above the level of the clavicle, the third portion of the subclavian artery curves outwards and downwards from the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus, across the first rib, to the axilla, and this is the situation most commonly chosen for ligaturing the vessel. Sometimes this vessel rises as high as an inch and a half above the clavicle ; occasionally, it passes in front of the Scalenus anticus, or pierces the fibres of that muscle. The subclavian vein lies behind the clavicle, and is not usually seen in this space; but in some cases it rises as high as the artery, and has even been seen to pass with that vessel behind the Scalenus anticus. The brachial plexus of nerves lies above the artery, and in close contact with it. Passing transversely behmd the clavicle are the supra- scapular vessels ; and traversing its upper angle in the same direction, the transversalis colli artery and vein. The external jugular vein runs vertically downwards behind the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, to terminate in the subclavian vein; it receives the transversalis colli and suprascapular veins, which form a plexus in front of the artery, and occasionally a small vein which crosses the clavicle from the cephalic. The small nerve to the Subclavius muscle also crosses this triangle about its middle, and some lymphatic glands are usually found in the space. Internal Carotid Artery The internal carotid artery (a. carotis interna) (fig. 580) supplies the anterior part of the brain, the eye and its appendages, and sends branches to the forehead and nose. Its size, in the adult, is equal to that of the external carotid, though, in the child, it is larger than that vessel. It is remarkable for the number of curvatures that it presents in different parts of its course. It occasionally has one or two flexures near the base of the skuU, while in its passage through the carotid canal and along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone it describes a double curvature and resembles the itaUc letter *Sf. t T 2