HISTOLOGY 8 it is very soluble in water, so that the addition of water to a drop of blood speedily dissolves out the hajuioglobin from the corpuscles. If the web of a living frog's foot be spread out and examined under the micro- scope, the blood is seen to flow in a continuous stream through the vessels, and the corpuscles show no tendency to adhere to each other or to the wall of the vessel. Doubtless the same is the case in the human body ; but when the blood is drawn and examined on a slide without reagents, the corpuscles often collect into heaps like rouleaux of coins (fig. 3, h). It has been suggested that this phenomenon may be explained bv alteration in surface tension. During life the red corpuscles may be seen to cha^ige their shape under pressure so as to adapt themselves, to some extent, to the size of the vessel. They are, however, highly elastic, and speedily recover their shape when the pressure is removed. They are readily influenced by the medium in which they are placed. In water they swell up. lose their shape, and become globular [endosviosis) (fig. 3, c). Subsequently the hEemoglobin is dissolved out, and the envelope can barely be distmgmshed as a faint circular outhne. Solutions of salt or sugar, denser than the plasma, give them a stellate or crenated appearance (exosinosis) (fig. 3, d), but the usual shape may be restored by diluting the solution to the same specific gra^aty as the plasma The crenated outhne may be produced as the first effect of the passage of an eiectric shock : subsequently, if sufficiently strong, the shock ruptures the envelope. A solution of salt or sugar, of the same specific gravity as the plasma (i.e. an isotomc solution). Fig. 3.—Human red blood-corpuscles. merely separates the blood Highly magnified. corpuscles mechanicall}', without changing their shape. The colourless cor- puscles or leucocytes are of various sizes, some no larger, others smaller, than the red corpuscles. In human blood, however, the majority are rather larger than the red corpuscles, and measure about jxfVt) to i).-,V<T of an inch in diameter. On the average fi-om 10,000 to 12,000 leucocytes are found in each cubic miUimetre of blood. They consist of minute masses of nucleated protoplasm, and exhibit several varieties, which are differentiated from each other chiefly by the occurrence or non-occurrence of granules in their protoplasm, and by the staimng reactions o these granules when present (fig. 4). (1) The most numerous (/0-80 per cent) and important are spherical in shape, and are characterised by nuclei wlucli often consist of two or three parts (multipartite) connected together by fane threads of chromatin. The protoplasm is clear, aiid contains a number of very fane granules, which stain with acid dyes such as cosin (fig. 4, p). These cells are teimed the vohmorfhonuclear leucocytes. (2) A second variety comprises ^rom ^ to 4 per cent, of the leucocytes; they are larger than the pre^1ous land, and are mide up of coarsely granular protoplasm the granules being highly refract c nnd crrouDed round single nuclei of horse-shoe shape (fig. 4 E). iue ™les tlln deeply wfth eosin, and the. cells are therefore often termed LinofUl corpuBclei' (3) The third variety is called t.he ;j(«/.He cell (fig. 4 h • This s usually about the same size as the eosinophil cell, and, ^ hen at rest is spherical in shape and contains a single round or oval nucleus. The pr'toplsm is free \rom granules, but !s 7* X4d orSE;; - a Seen from the surface. 6. Seeu in profile and forming rouleaux. c. Bendered spherical by water, d. Rendered crenate by salt solution.