735 VEINS OF THE NECK the surgeon should proceed to ligature the internal jugular vein, by an incision along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, the centre of which is on a level with the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. The vein should be ligatured in two places and divided between. After the vessel has been secured and divided, the lateral sinus is to be thoroughly cleared out, and by removing the ligature from the upper end of the divided vein, all septic clots removed by syringing from the sinus through the vein. If haemorrhage occur from the distal end of the sinus, it can be arrested by careful plugging with antiseptic gauze. The internal jugular vein is also surgically important, because it is surrounded by a large number of the deep chain of cervical lymphatic glands ; and when these are enlarged in tuberculous or maUgnant disease, they are apt to become adherent to the vessel, rendering their removal difficult and often dangerous. The proper course to pursue in these cases is to ligature the vessel above and below the glandular mass, and resect the included portion together wth the glands. Cardiac pulsation is often demonstrable in the internal jugular vein at the root of the neck. There are no valves in the innominate veins or superior vena cava; in consequence, the systole of the right auricle causes a wave to pass up these vessels, and when the conditions are favourable this wave appears as a somewhat feeble flicker over the internal jugular vein at the root of the neck, quite distinct from, and just preceding, the more forcible impulse transmitted from the underlying common carotid artery and due to the ventricular systole. This auricular systolic venous impulse is much increased in conditions in which the right auricle is abnormally distended with blood or is hypertrophied, as is often the case in disease of the mitral valves. In Stokes-Adams' disease (p. 611) it is this pulsation which gives evidence of the fact that the auricles are beating faster—often two or three times faster—than the ventricles. The vertebral vein (v. vertebralis) is formed in the suboccipital triangle, fi'om numerous small tributaries which spring from the intraspinal venous plexuses and issue from the spinal canal above the posterior arch of the atlas. They unite with small veins from the deep muscles at the upper and back part of the neck, and form a vessel which passes outwards and enters the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, and descends, forming a dense plexus around the vertebral artery, in the canal formed by the foramina in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. This plexus unites at the lower part of the neck into a single trunk, which emerges from the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and terminates at the root of the neck in the back part of the innominate vein near its origin, its mouth being guarded by a pair of valves. On the right side, it crosses the first part of the subclavian artery. Tributaries.—The vertebral vein receives in its course a vein from the inside of the skull through the posterior condyloid foramen ; muscular veins, from the muscles in the prevertebral region ; posterior-spinal veins, from the back part of the cervical portion of the vertebral column ; intra-spinal veins, from the interior of the spinal canal; the anterior and posterior vertebral veins ; and close to its termination it is sometimes joined by the first intercostal vein. The anterior vertebral vein commences in a plexus around the transverse processes of the upper cervical vertcbraj, descends in company wdth the ascending cervical artery between the Scalenus anticus and Kectus capitis anticus major muscles, and opens into the vertebral vein just before its termination. The posterior vertebral or deep cervical vein (v. cervicaUs profunda) accompanies the profunda cervicis artery, lying between the Complexus and bemispinahs colli. It commences in the suboccipital region by communicating branches from the occipital vein and tributaries from tlje deep muscles at the back of the neck. It receives tributaries from the plexuses around the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrse, and terminates in the lower end of the vertebral vem. Veins of the Diploe (fig. 629) The diploic veins (venae diploicae) occupy channels in the cancellous tissue of the cranial bones. .They are large and exhibit at irregular intervals pouch-like dilatations ; tneir walls are thin, and formed of endothelium resting upon a layer of elastic tissue. In adult life, so long as the cranial bones are distinct and separable, these vems are confined to the particular bones ; but in old age, when the sutures are united, they communicate with each other, and increase in size. They