503 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE THORAX in the middle line to form an arch across the front of tlie aorta ; this arch, wliich is often poorly defined, is known as the ligamentum arcuatum medium. From this series of origins the fibres of the Diaphragm converge to be inserted into the central tendon. The fibres arising from the ensiform cartilage are very short, and occasionaUy aponeurotic; those from the interna,! and external arcuate Ugaments. and more especiaUy those from the ribs and tlieu- cartilages, are longer, and describe marked curves as they ascend and converge to theur insertion. The fibres of the crura and those from the Hgamentum arcuatum medium diverge as they ascend, the outermost bein<T du-ected upwards and outwards to the central tendon, the uinermosfc decussatmg in front of the aorta, and then divergmg to surround the oesophagus before reaching their insertion. The fibres from the right crus are more numerous than those from the left, and pass m front of them. The central tendon (centrum tendineum) of the Diaphragm is a thin but strong tendinous aponeurosis situated near the centre of the vault formed by the muscle, but somewhat closer to the front than to the back of the thorax, so that the posterior muscular fibres are the longer. It is situated immediately below the pericardium, with which it is partially blended. It is shaped some- what like a trefoil leaf, consisting of thi'ee divisions or leaflets separated from one another by slight mdentations. The right leaflet is the largest, the middle, du-ected towards the ensiform cartilage the next hi size, and the left the smallest. In structure the tendon is composed of several planes of fibres, which intersect one another at various angles and unite into straight or curved bundles—an arrangement which affords it additional strength. Openings in the Diaphragm.—The Diaphragm is pierced by a series of apertures to permit of the passage of structures between the thorax and abdomen. Three large openings—the aortic, the oesophageal, and the vena caval—and a series of smaller ones are described. The aortic opening (hiatus aorticus) is the lowest and most posterior of the three large apertures ; it lies at the level of the twelfth thoracic vertebra. Strictly speaking, it is not an aperture in the Diaphragm but an osseo- aponeurotic opening between it and the vertebral column, and therefore behind the Diaphragm ; occasionaUy some tendmous fibres prolonged across the bodies of the vertebrae from the mner parts of the lower ends of the crura pass behind the aorta, and thus convert the opening into a fibrous ring. The aperture is situated slightly to the left of the middle line, and is bounded in front by the ligamentum arcuatum medium and crura, and behind by the body of the first lumbar vertebra. Through it pass the aorta, the vena azygos major and the thoracic duct; occasionally the vena azygos major is transmitted through the right crus. The oesophageal opening (hiatus oesophageus) is situated at the level of the tenth thoracic vertebra; it is elliptical in form, muscular in structure, and bounded by the decussating fibres of the two crura.* The anterior edge is occasionally formed by the margin of the central tendon. The aperture is placed above, in front, and a little to the left of the aortic opening, and transmits the oesophagus, the pneumogastric nerves, and some small oesophageal arteries. The vena caval opening (foramen vense cavse) is the highest of the three, and is situated about the level of the disc between the eighth and ninth thoracic vertebrae. It is quadrilateral in form, and is placed at the junction of the right and middle leaflets of the central tendon, so that its margins are tendinous. It transmits the inferior vena cava, the wall of which is adherent to the margins of the opening, and some branches of the right phrenic nerve. Of the lesser apertures, two in the right crus transmit the greater and lesser right splanchnic nerves; three in the left crus give passage to the greater and lesser left splanchnic nerves and the vena azygos minor. The gangliated cords of the sympathetic usually enter the abdominal cavity behind the Diaphragm, under the internal arcuate ligaments. On either side two small intervals exist at which the muscular fibres of the Diaphragm are deficient ♦ Low (^Journal of Anatomy a/nd Physiology, vol. xlii.), in tweuty-five cases which he examined, failed to find a fasciculus from the left crus to the right margin of the CESophageal opening. He regards the oesophageal passage in the Diaphragm as formed by the splitting of the mesial fibres oC the right crus.