498 MYOLOGY between the eleventh and twelfth. Sometimes the number of these muscles is diminished by the absence of one or more from the upper or lower end. The Interspinales are short muscular fascicuH, placed in pairs between the spijtious processes of the contiguous vertebrae, one on eitlier side of the interspinous ligament. In the cervical region they are most distinct, and consist of six pairs, the first being situated between the axis and thurd vertebra, and the last between the last cervical and the first thoracic. They are small narrow bundles, attached, above and below, to the apices of the spinous processes. In the thoracic region, they are found between the first and second vertebrae, and sometimes between the second and third ; and below, between the eleventh and twelfth. In the lumbar region, there are four pairs of these muscles in the intervals between the five lumbar vertebrae. There is also occasionally one in the interspinous space, between the last thoracic and first lumbar, and one between the fifth lumbar and the sacrum. The Extensor coccygis is a slender musciilar fasciculus, which is not always present; it extends over the lower part of the posterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx. It arises by tendinous fibres from the last segment of the sacrum, or first piece of the coccyx, and passes downwards to be inserted into the lower part of the coccy^x. It is a rudiment of the Extensor muscle of the caudal vertebrae of the lower animals. The Intertransversales are small muscles placed between the transverse processes of the vertebrae. In the cervical region they are most developed, consisting of rounded muscular and tendinous fasciculi, and are placed in pairs, passing between the anterior and the posterior tubercles respectively of the transverse processes of two contiguous vertebrae, and separated from one another by the anterior primary division of the cervical nerve, which lies in the groove between them. In this region there are seven pairs of these muscles, the first pair being between the atlas and axis, and the last pair between the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebrae. In the thoracic region they are least developed, consisting chiefly of rounded tendinous cords in the inter- transverse spaces of the upper thoracic vertebras, but between the transverse processes of the lower three thoracic vertebrae, and between the transverse processes of the last thoracic and the first lumbar, they are muscular in structure. In the lumbar region they are arranged in pairs, on either side of the vertebral column ; one set occupying the entire interspace between the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrte, the Intertransversales laterales ; the other set, Intertransversales mediales, passing from the accessory process of one vertebra to the mamillary process of the vertebra below.* The Rectus capitis posticus major (m. rectus capitis posterior major) arises by a pointed tendinous origin from the spinous process of the axis, and, becoming broader as it ascends, is inserted into the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone and the surface of bone immediately below it. As the muscles of the two sides pass upwards and outw^ards, they leave between them a triangular space, in which are seen the Recti capitis postici minores. The Rectus capitis posticus minor (m. rectus capitis posterior mmor), the smallest of the four muscles in this region, is of a triangular shape ; it arises by a narrow pointed tendon from the tubercle on the posterior arch of the atlas, and, becoming broader as it ascends, is inserted into the iimer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone and the surface between it and the foramen magnum. The Obliquus capitis inferior, the larger of the two Oblique muscles, arises from the apex of the spinous process of the axis, and passes outwards and slightly upwards, to be inserted into the lower and back part of the transverse process of the atlas. The Obliquus capitis superior, narrow below, wide and expanded above, arises by tendinous fibres from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, joining with the insertion of the preceding. It passes obhquely upwards and inwards, and is inserted into the occipital bone, between the two curved lines, external to the Complexus. ♦ The student is referred to an article on the morphology of the human intertransvi muscles, by J. Dunlop I.ickley ; Journal of Anatomy and rhysiology, vol. xxxix. 1904.