ARTICULATIONS OF VERTEBRAL COLUIMN 377 nroiectine lower lips of the bodies of the vertebrae with the shelving surfaces on he bodies of the subjacent vertebra. Lateral aexion and rotation are free in the rervical re<rion : they are, however, always combined. The upward and inward inclinations of the superior articular surfaces impart a rotatory movement during lateral flexion, while pure rotation is prevented by the slight inward slope of these *'"?nThe ihoracic region, notably in its upper part, all the movements are limited in order to reduce interference with respiration to a minimum. The almost com- plete absence of an upward inclination of the superior articular surfaces prohibits iny marked flexion, while extension is checked by the contact of the inferior articiUar margins with the laminsc, and the contact of the spinous processes with one another. The mechanism between the seventh cervical and the first thoracic vertebree, which limits extension of the cervical region, will also serve to hmit flexion of the thoracic region when the neck is extended. Rotation is free in the thoracic recnon : the superior articular processes are segments of a cylinder whose axis is in the mid-ventral hne of the vertebral bodies. The direction of the articular facets would allow of free lateral flexion, but this movement is considerably limited i)i the upper part of the region by the resistance of the ribs and sternum. In the lumbar region flexion and extension are free. Flexion can be carried farther than extension, and is possible up to the straightening of the lumbar curve; It is, therefore, greatest at the lowest part where the curve is sharpest. The inferior articular facets are not in close apposition with the superior facets of the subjacent vertebra, and on this account a considerable amount of lateral flexion is perinitted. For the same reason a sUght amount of rotation can be carried out, but this is so soon checked bv the interlocking of the articular surfaces that it is negligible. The principal muscles which produce flexion are the Sterno-mastoid, Rectus capitis anticus major, and Longus colli; the Scaleni ; the abdominal muscles and the Psoas magnus. Extension is produced by the fourth layer of the muscles of the back, assisted in the neck by the Splenius, Seniispinales dorsi et coUi, and the Multifidus spinje. Lateral motion is produced by the fourth and fifth layers of the muscles of the back, by the Splenius, the Scaleni, the Quadratus lumborum and the Psoas magnus, the muscles of one side only acting ; and rotation by the action of the following muscles of one side only, viz. the Sterno-mastoid, the Rectus capitis anticus major, the Scaleni, the Multifidus spinse, the Complexus, and the abdominal muscles. II. ARTICULATION OF THE ATLAS WITH THE AXIS The articulation of the Atlas with the Axis is of a complicated nature, comprising no fewer than four distinct joints. There is a pivot articulation between the odontoid process of the axis and the ring formed by the anterior arch of the atlas and the transverse ligament (see fig. 429) ; here there are two joints : one in front between the posterior sm-face of the anterior arch of the atlas and the front of the odontoid process ; the other between the anterior surface of the transverse ligament and the back of the process. Between the articular processes of the two bones there is on either side an arthrodial or gliding joint. The ligaments which connect these bones are : Two Capsular. Posterior Atlanto-axial. Anterior Atlanto-axial. Transverse.* The Capsular Ligaments (capsulse articulares) are two thin, loose capsules, connecting the lateral masses of the atlas with the margins of the superior articular surfaces of the axis. Each is strengthened at its posterior and inner part by a ligamentous band, the accessory ligament, which is attached below to the body of the axis near the base of the odontoid process, and above to the lateral mass of the atlas near tlio transverse ligament. The Anterior Atlanto-axial Ligament (fig. 427) is a strong membrane, fixed, above, to the lower border of the anterior arch of the atlas ; below, * It has been found necessary to describe the transverse ligament with those of the atlas and axis; but the student must remember that it is really a portion of the mechanism by which the movements of the head on the vertebral column are regulated; so that the connections between the atlas and axis ought always to be studied in association with those between the axis and the skull. !