OSTEOLOGY 182 are expanded into broad, flat plates, as in the skull and the shoulder-blade. These bones arc composed of two thin layers of compact tissue enclosing between them a variable quantity of cancellous tissue. In the cranial bones, the layers of compact tissue are famiUarly known as the tables of the skuU ; the outer one is tliick and tough ; the inner is tliin, dense, and brittle, and hence is termed the vitreous table. The intervening cancellous tissue is called the diploe, and this, in certain regions of the skuU, becomes absorbed so as to leave spaces filled with air {air-sinuses) between the two tables. The flat bones are : the occipital, parietal, frontal, nasal, lachrymal, vomer, scapula, OS innominatum, sternum, ribs, and, according to some, the patella. The irregular bones are such as, from their peculiar form, cannot be grouped under the preceding heads. They consist of cancellous tissue enclosed within a thin layer of compact bone. The irregular bones are : the vertebras, sacrum, coccyx, temporal, sphenoid, ethmoid, malar, maxilla, mandible, palate, inferior turbinated, and hyoid. Surfaces of bones.—If the surface of a bone be examined, certain eminences and depressions are seen, to which descriptive anatomists have given the following names. These eminences and depressions are of two kinds : articular and non- articular. Well-marked examjjles of articular eminences are found in the heads of the humerus and femur ; and of articular depi-essions in the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and the acetabulum of the os innominatum. Non-articular eminences are designated according to their form. Thus, a broad, rough, uneven elevation is called a tuberosity, protuberance, or process ; a small, rough prominence, a tubercle ; a sharp, slender, pointed eminence, a spine ; a narrow, rough elevation, running some way along the surface, a ridge, crest, or line. Non-articular depressions are also of variable form, and are described as fosscB, pits, depressions, grooves, furrows, fissures, notches, &c. These non-articular eminences and depressions serve to increase the extent of surface for the attachment of hgaments and muscles, and are usually well marked in pro- portion to the muscularity of the subject; the grooves, fissures and notches transmit vessels and nerves. In describing the various surfaces or aspects of a bone, or indeed of any other structure, the body is supposed to be in the erect position. Any surface, extremity, or other part directed upwards towards the head is termed superior, while those directed downwards towards the feet are termed inferior. Surfaces directed forwards towards the front of the body are termed anterior or ventral, while those directed backwards are posterior or dorsal. Those surfaces which are directed towards a median antero-posterior vertical plane are termed i?ii(?r?ia/ or mesial, while those directed away from this plane are external or lateral. The minute structure, growth, and composition of bone are described on pages 24 to 34. THE VERTEBRAL COLUIMN The vertebral or spinal column (columna vertebralis) is a flexuous and flexible column, formed of a series of bones called vertebra;. , ■, 4.1, The vertebrae are thirty-three in number, and are grouped under the names cervical, thoracic or dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal, accordmg to the regions they occupy ; seven being found in the cervical region, twelve in the thoracic, five in the lumbar, five in the sacral, and four m the coccygeal. This number is sometimes increased by an additional vertebra m one region, or it may be diminished in one region, the deficiency being supphert by an additional vertebra in another. The number of cer\acal vertebrae is. however, very rarely increased or diminished. ■ j w- 4^ The vertebra; in the upper three regions of the column remain distinct throughout life, and are knoAra as true or niovable vertebrae ; those ot tne sacral and coccygeal regions, on the other hand, are termed /afoe or pxea vertebrae, because they are united in the adult to form two bones—live forming the upper bone or sacrum, and four the terminal bone or coccyx. With the exception of the first and second cervical, the true or rnox^Me vertebrae present certain common characters which are best studiea dj examining one from the middle of the thoracic region.