ANKLE-JOINT 441 upper articular surface. The parts of which it is composed vary considerably in strength. ip-ament (fig. 475) is a broad, thin, membranous layer, attach:d''a?ovrto''tSTnte^^^^^^ of the lower extremity o the tjb.a^ attacnea auu ' , ^ ^ ^ f superior articular surface. It is m in froiTt «Sh tkrExtonsor tendons of the toes, the tendons of tlie ySs'Tntt^and P™ tcrtius, and the anterior tibial vessels and Tlie Posterior Ligament is very thin, and consists principally of transverse fibrS ?t S attached, above, to the margin of the articular surface of he tibk blending with the transverse tibio-fibular ligament below, to the nstrasXs bchid its superior articular facet. Externally where a somewhat thlckS band of transverse fibres is attached to tbe hollow on the inner surface of the external malleolus, it is stouter than internally. The Internal Lateral or Deltoid Ligament (hg. deltoideum) (fig. 475) is a strong, fiat, triangular band, attached, above, to the apex and anterior and posterior borders oi the inner malleolus. It consists of two sets of fibres, Fig. 475.—Ankle-joint, tarsal and tarso-metatarsal articulations, laternal view. Right side. Tarso-metatarsal articulatio superficial and deep. Of the superficial fibres the most anterior pass forwards to be inserted into tlie tuberosity of the navicular bone, and immediately behind this thev blend with the inner margm of the inferior calcaneo- navicular ligament; the middle descend almost perpendicularly to be mserted into the whole length of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis ; the posterior fibres pass backwards and outwards to be attached to the inner side of the astragalus, and to the prominent tubercle on its posterior surface, internal to the groove for the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis. The deep fibres are attached, above, to the tip of the inner malleolus, and, below, to the inner surface of the astragalus. Tliis ligament is covered by the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum. The External Lateral Ligament (fig. 476) con.sists of three fasciculi, taking different directions, and separated by distinct intervals, for which reason it is described by some anatomists as three distinct ligaments. The anterior fascicuhis (lig. talofibulare anterius), the shortest of the three, passes from the anterior margin of the external malleolus, forwards and inwards to tlie astragalus, in front of its external articular facet.