ELBOW-JOINT 409 ascertained by examination from the axilla, where a soft, elastic, fluctuating swelling can usually be felt. In cases of septic synovitis, where incision is required, the openmg should be made in front, over the most prominent point of the SAvelling. After the pus has hecn evacuated a counter-opening should be made behind, so as to ensure efficient drainage. , , , . . ^ t i i i. Tuberculous arthritis not infrequently attacks the shoulder-jomt, and may lead to total destruction of the articulation, when ankylosis may result, or long-protracted suppuration may necessitate excision. This jomt is also one of those which is most liable to be the seat of osteo-arthritis, and may also be affected in gout and rheumatism ; or in locomotor ataxy, when it becomes the seat of Charcot's disease. Ankylosis is occasionally met with in the shoulder-joint as the result of destructive changes. The ankylosis usually takes place with the arm in a dependent position, and any attempt to raise the arm is attended by a rotation of the scapula on the wall of the chest. Excision of the shoulder-joint may be requu-ed in cases of arthritis (especially the tuberculous form) which have gone on to destruction of the articulation ; in compound dislocations and fractures, particularly those arising from gimshot injuries, in which there has been extensive injury to the head of the bone ; in some cases of old um-educed disloca- tion, where there is much pain ; and possibly in some few cases of gro-niih connected with the upper end of the bone. The operation is best performed by making an incision from the middle of the coraco-acromial hgament dowi the arm for about thi-ee uiches : this will expose the bicipital groove containing the tendon of the Biceps, which should be hooked out of the way. The capsule is freely opened, and the muscles attached to the greater and lesser tuberosities of the humerus are stripped off mth the capsule, without dividing then- attachments to the latter. The head of the bone can then be thiaist out of the wound and sav^m oft' ; or divided with a narrow saw in situ and subsequently removed. The section should be made, if possible, just below the articular surface, so as to leave the bone as long as possible. The glenoid ca\aty must then be examined, and gouged if carious. IV. ELBOW-JOINT (AKTICULATIO CUBITI) The elbow-joint (figs. 452, 453) is aginglymus or hinge-joint. The trochlea of the humerus is received into the greater sigmoid cavity of the uhia, so as to admit of the movements peculiar to this joint, viz. flexion and extension ; while the capiteUum of the humerus articulates with the cup-shaped depression on the head of the radius. The articular sui'faces are each covered with a thin layer of cartilage, and connected together by a Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis), whicli is especially thickened on its two sides, and, to a less extent, in front and behind. These thickened portions are usually described as distinct ligaments under the following names : Anterior. Internal Lateral. Posterior. External Lateral. The Anterior Ligament (fig. 452) is a broad and thin fibrous layer, which covers the anterior surface of the joint. It is attached to the front of the internal epicondyle and to the front of the humerus immediately above the coronoid and radial fossae ; below, to the anterior surface of the coronoid process of the ulna and to the orbicular ligament (page 413), being continuous on either side with the lateral ligaments. Its superficial fibres pass obliquely from the inner condyle of the humerus outwards to the orbicular ligament. The middle fibres, vertical in direction, pass from the upper part of the coronoid depression and become partly blended with the preceding, but mainly inserted into the anterior sm-face of the coronoid process. The deep or transverse set intersects these at right angles. This ligament is in relation, m front, with the Brachialis anticus, except at its outermost part. The Posterior Ligament (fig. 453) is thm and membranous, and consists of transverse and oblique fibres. Above, it is attached to the humerus imme- diately beliind the capitellum and close to tlie inner margin of the trochlear surface, to the lateral margins of the olecranon fossa, and to the back of the external condyle some little distance from the trochlear surface. Below, it IS fixed to the upper and outer margins of the olecranon process, to tlie posterior part of the orbicular ligament, and to the ulna behind the lesser sigmoid cavity. The transverse fibres form a strong band which bridges across the olecranon fossa ; under cover of this band a pouch of synovial membrane and a pad of fat project into the upper part of the fossa when the joint is extended. In the fat are a few scattered fibrous bundles, which pass from