331 PELVIS The size of the pelvis varies not only in the two sexes, but also in different members of tlie same sex, and does not appear to be influenced in any way by the iieight of the individual. Women of short stature, as a rule, have broad pelves. Occasionally the pelvis is equally contracted in all its dimen- sions, so much so that all its diameters measure an inch less than the average, and this even in well-formed women of average height. The principal diver- gences, however, are found at the uilet, and affect the relation of the antero- posterior to the transverse diameter. Thus the inlet of the pelvis may be elliptical either in a transverse or an antero-posterior direction ; the transverse diameter in the former, and the antero-posterior m the latter, greatly exceeding the other diameters. Again, the inlet of the pelvis in some instances is seen to be almost circular. The same differences are found in various races. European women are said to liave the most roomy pelves. That of the negress is smaller, circular in shape, and with a narrow pubic arch. The Hottentots and Bushwomen possess the smallest pelves. In the fmtus, and for several years after bii'th, the pelvis is small m proportion to that of the adult, and the projection of the sacro-vertebral angle less marked. The generally accepted opinion that the pelvis does not acquire its sexual characteristics untU after puberty has been shown to be erroneous,* the characteristic differences between the male and female pelvis being distinctly indicated as early as the fourth month of foetal life. Surface Form.—The pelvic bones are so thickly covered with muscles that it is only at certain points that they approach the surface and can be felt through the skin. In front, tlie anterior superior spine of the ilium is easily recognised ; a portion of it is subcutaneous, and in thin subjects may be feen to stand out as a prominence at the outer extremity of the fold of the groin. Li fat subjects its position is marked by an obhque depression, at the bottom of which the bony process may be felt. Proceeding upwards and outwards from this process, the sinuously curved crest of the ilium may be traced throughout its whole length. Its highest point is on a level with the spinous process of the fourth lumbar vertebra: upon its outer lip, about two inches behind the anterior superior spine, is a prominent tubercle. The position of the crest is indicated, in muscular subjects, by a groove or furrow, the iliac furroiv, below the projection of the fleshy fibres of the External oblique muscle of the abdomen ; the iliac furrow lies slightly below the level of the crest. It terminates behind in the posterior superior spine, the position of which is indicated by a sUght depression on a level with the spmous process of the second sacral vertebra. Between the two posterior superior spines, but at a lower level, is to be felt the spinoiis process of the third sacral vertebra. Another part of the bony pelvis which is accessible to touch is the tuberosity of the ischium, situated beneath the gluteal fold, and, when the hip is flexed, easily felt, as it is then uncovered by muscle. Finally, the spuie of the pubis can be readily felt, and constitutes an important surgical guide, especially in connection with the subject of hernia. It is in nearly the same horizontal plane as the upper edge of the great trochanter. In thin subjects it is very apparent, but in the obese it is obscured by the pubic fat. It can, how- ever, be detected by follo\ving up the tendon of origin of the Adductor longus muscle. A line drawn from the anterior superior spme of the ilium to the most prominent part of the tuberosity of the ischium passes across the hip at a level with the upper border of the great trochanter. It is known as Nelaton's line, and is of service in detecting any displacement of the trochanter in fractures or dislocations in this situation. If a hne be drawn from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the outer part of the tuberosity of the ischium, it will cross the spine of the ischium about four inches below the posterior superior iliac spme. The gi-eat sciatic foramen will lie above, and the lesser foramen below this point. Applied AfuUomy.—^There is arrest of development in the bones of the pelvis in cases of extroversion of tho bladder ; the anterior part of the pelvic girdle being deficient, the bodies of the pubic bones imperfectly developed, and the symph3fsis absent. ' The pubic bones are separated to the extent of from two to four inches, the superior rami shortened and directed forwards, and the obturator foramen diminished in size, nan-owed, and turned outwards. The iliac bones are straightened out more than normal. The sacrum is very pecuUar. The lateral curve, instead of being concave, is flattened out or even convex, with the iho-sacral facets turned more outward than normal, while the vertical curve is straightened.' t * Fehling, Zeitschr. far Oeburt. ii. &ynlilt. Bd. ix. luid x.; and Arthur Thomson, Juurnal of Anatomy and Physioloyy, vol. xxxiii. t Wood. Heath's Dictionary of Praotiaal Sit/rgery, i. 42G.