MEMBRANES AND APPENDAGES OP THE EMBRYO 97 Mucous memhraiie Muscular fibres~- = A Stratum compactum imbiliciil vein, undergo atrophy, and disappear; and thus the cord, at birth, contains a pair of umbilical arteries and one (the left) unabiUcal vein. The chorion (figs. 117 to 121).—The chorion is developed from the wall of the blastodermic vesicle, and consists of two layers : an outer formed by the primitive ectoderm or trophoblast, and an inner by the somatic mesoderm (figs. 119 and 120). The trophoblast is made up of an internal layer of cubical or Fio. 122.—Diagrammatic sections of the uterine prismatic cells, the cytoUast or layer ^ucou.s membrane : (a) of the non-pregnant i^." ; ' T , ^ r uterus: b) of the pregnant uterus, showing o/Z<tn.<7A«ns,andanexternallayero the thi^^kened mucous membrane and thi richly nucleated protoplasm devoid altered condition of the uterine glands. of cell boundaries, the syncytium. (Kundrat and Engelmann.) It undergoes rapid proliferation and forms numerous processes, the chorionic villi, which invade and destroy the uterine decidua and at the same time absorb from it nutri- tive materials for the growth of the embryo. The chorionic villi are at first small and non-vascular, and consist of trophoblast only, but they increase in size and ramify, while the mesoderm, carrying branches of the umbilical vessels, grows into them, and in this way they are vascularised. Blood is carried to the villi by the branches of the umbilical arteries, and after circulating through the capillaries of the villi, is returned to the embryo by the umbilical veins. Until about the end of the second month of pregnancy the villi cover the entire chorion and are almost uniform in size (fig. 119), but after this they develop unequally. The greater part of the chorion is in contact with the decidua capsularis (fig. 124), and over this portion the ^^lli, with their contained vessels, undergo atrophy, so that by the fourth month scarcely a trace of them is left, and hence this part of the chorion becomes smooth, and is named the chorion Icpve; as it takes no share in the formation of the placenta, it is also named the non-placental part of the chorion. On the other hand, the villi on that part of the chorion which is in contact with the decidua placentalis increase greatly in size and complexity, and hence this part is named the chorion frondosum. Since it forms the foetal portion of the placenta, it is appropriately named the placental part of the chorion, and its villi, the placental villi (fig. 124). The decidua.—Changes take place in the mucous membrane of the uterus in order to render it fit for the reception of the fertilised ovum. It becomes congested and thickened, its connective tissue cells are increased in number, and its glands are expanded ; this altered mucous membrane is termed the decidua. "When the fertilised ovum enters the uterus it becomes imbedded in the decidua, which then undergoes the following changes : its thickness and its vascularity are greatly increased ; its glands are elongated and open on its free surface by funnel-shaped Stratum spongiosum Unaltered layer Muscular fibres 5B