115 THE SKIN, GLANDS, AND SOFT PARTS ectoderm, while the corium or true skin is of mesodermal origin, being derived from the cutis-plates of the primitive segments. About the fifth week the epidermis consists of two layers of cells, the deeper one corresponding to the rete mucosum. The subcutaneous fat appears about the fourth month, and the papilla3 of the true skin about the sixth. A considerable desquamation of ■pidermis takes place during foetal hfe, and this desquamated epidermis, mixed with a sebaceous secretion, constitutes the vernix caseosa, with which the skin is smeared during the last three months of foetal life. The nails are formed at the third month, and begin to project from the epidermis about the sixth. The hairs appear between the third and fourth months in the form of solid downgrowths of the deeper layer of the epidermis, the growing extremities of which become inverted by papillary projections from the corium. The central cells of the solid downgrowth madergo alteration to form the hair, while the peripheral cells are retained to form the Uning cells of the follicle. About the fifth month, the foetal hairs (lanugo) appear, first on the head and then on the other parts ; they drop off after birth, and give place to the permanent hairs. The cellular structures of the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands are formed from the ectoderm, while the connective tissue and blood-vessels are derived from the mesoderm. The mammary gland is also formed partly from mesoderm and partly from ectoderm—its blood-vessels and connective tissue being derived from the former, its cellular elements from the latter. Its first rudiment is seen about the third month, in the form of a number of smaD inward projections of the ectoderm, which invade the mesoderm ; from these, secondary tracts of cellular elements radiate and subsequently give rise to the glandular folHcles and ducts. The development of the folhcles, however, remains imperfect, except in the adult female. DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM AND SENSE ORGANS The entire nervous system is of ectodermal origin, and its first rudiment is seen in the neural groove which extends along the dorsal aspect of the embryo (fig. 109). By the elevation and ultimate fusion of the medullary folds, the groove is converted into the neural tube (fig. 111). The anterior end of the neural tube becomes expanded to form the three primary brain-vesicles which are subse- quently modified to form the ventricular cavities of the brain (except the fifth) ; the remainder of the tube forms the central canal of the spinal cord (fig. 147). From its surrounding wall the nervous elements and the neuroglia of the brain and spinal cord are developed. The Spinal Cord.—At first the wall of the neural tube is composed of a single layer of columnar ectodermal cells. Soon the lateral parts of the wall become thickened, while the dorsal and ventral parts remain thin, and are named the roof and floor plates (figs. 147, 149). A transverse section of the tube at this stage presents an oval outline, while its Imnen has the appearance of a slit. The cells which constitute the wall of the tube are differentiated into two sets : viz. (a) spongioblasts or young neuroglia-cells, and (b) germinal cells, which are the parents of the neuroblasts or young nerve-cells (fig. 148). The spongioblasts are elongated and columnar, and extend from the lumen of the tube to its peripheral wall— their inner and outer ends being modified to fonn the inner and outer limiting membranes of the cord. The parts of the spongioblasts abutting against the central canal retain their columnar character, and ultimately form the laver of columnar ciliated epithelium which lines this canal. Their outer parts, on "the other hand, undergo ramification and form a sponge-like network, termed the myelospongium, from which the neuroglia or sustentacular tissue of the cord is developed. The branching of the spongioblasts is most marked near the periphery of the cord, and this outer part, in consequence, assumes the appearance of a fine reticulum. The germinal cells are large, round or oval, and fijst make their appearance ■ between the inner ends of the neuroglia-cells on the lateral aspects of the central canal. They increase rapidly in number, so that by the fourth week they form an almost continuous layer on each side of the tube. No germinal cells are found in the roof or floor plates; the roof-plate retains, in certain regions of the brain. Its epithelial character ; elsewhere, its cells become spongioblasts. The nuclei of many of the germinal cells exhibit mitotic changes, indicating that the cells I 2