SPLANCHNOLOGY 1192 iliac vessels and on the inner side of tlie obliterated hypogastric artery and the obturator nerve and vessels. Opposite the lower part of the great sacro- sciatic foramen it inclines inwards behind the vas deferens (which crosses to its inner side) and reaches the base of the bladder, where it is situated in front of the ujiper end of tl\e seminal vesicle and at a distance of about two inches from tlie opposite ureter. Finally, the ureters run obliquely for about tliree- quarters of an inch through the wall of the bladder and open by slit-like apertures into the cavity of the viscus at the lateral angles of the trigone. When the bladder is distended the openings of the ureters are about two inches apart, but when it is empty and contracted the distance between them is diminished by one-half. Owing to their oblique course through the coats of the bladder, their upper and lower walls become closely applied to each other when the viscus is distended, and, acting as valves, prevent regurgitation of urine from the bladder. Li the female, the ureter forms, as it lies in relation to the wall of tlie pelvis, the posterior boundary of a shallow depression named the fossa ovarii, in which the ovary is situated. It then runs inwards and forwards on the lateral aspect of the cervix uteri and upper part of the vagina to reach the base of the bladder. In tliis part of its course it is accompanied for about an inch by the uterine artery, wliich then crosses in front of the ureter and ascends between the two layers of the broad ligament. The ureter is distant about three- quarters of an inch from the lateral aspect of the neck of the uterus. The ureter is sometimes duplicated, and the two tubes may remain distinct as far as the base of the bladder. On rare occasions they open separately into the bladder cavity. Structure (fig. 991).—The ureter is composed of three coats: fibrous, muscular, aud mucous. The fibrous coat is continuous at one end with the capsule of the kidney on the floor of the sinus ; while at the other it is lost in the fibrous structure of the bladder. In the pelvis of the kidney the muscular coat consists of two layers, longitudinal and circular : the longitudinal fibres become lost upon the sides of the papUlas at the extremities of the cal5'ces; the circular Fig. 991.-Tran8verse section of ureter. ^^^^f^ "^^y , ^''^^^'^ surround- ing the medullary structure m the same situation. In the lu'eter proper the muscular fibres are very distinct, and are arranged in three layers: an external longitudinal, a middle circular, and an in- ternal, less distinct than the other two, but having a general longitudinal direction. Accord- ing to Kolhker this internal layer is found only in the neighboiu-hood of the bladder. The mucous coat is smooth, and presents a few longitudinal folds which become effaced bj' distension. It is continuous with the mucous membrane of the bladder below, while it is prolonged over the papilla; of the kidney above. Its epithe- lium is of a transitional cha- racter, and resembles that found in the bladder (see fig. 996, ])age 1197). It con.sists of several layers of cells, of which the innermost — that is to say, the cells in contact wiih the urine—are quadrilateral in shape, with concavities on their deep surfaces into which the rounded ends of the cells of the second layer fit. These, the intermediate cells, more or less resemble columnar epithelium, and are pear-shaped, with rounded internal extremities which fit into the concavities of the cells of the first layer, and narrow external extrcinities which are wedged in between the cells of the third layer. Tlie extei-nal or third layer Fibrous tissue I Longitudinal nimcular fibres \ Circular muscular fibres Sub-epithelial connective tissue Transitional epithelium — -a-