127 DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN and the subjacent corpus striatum prevents this part of the hemisphere wall from expanding at the same rate as the portions which surround it. The neighbouring parts of the hemisphere therefore gradually grow over and coyer in the island, uid constitute the temporal, fronto-parietal, frontal, and orbital opercula of the adult brain By the end of the first year after birth the island is completely sub- merged by the approximation of the opercula. The fissures separating the opposed margins of the opercula constitute the composite fissure of Sylvius. The commissures (fig. 160).—The development of the middle (page 122) and posterior (pa«-e 123) commissures has already been referred to. The great com- missures of the hemispheres, viz.: the corpus callosum, the fornix, and anterior commissure, arise from the lamina termiuahs. About the fourth month a small thickening appears in this lamina, immediately in front of the foramen of Monro. The lower part of this thickening is soon constricted ofi, and fibres appear in it to form the anterior commissure. The upper part continues to grow with the hemispheres, and is invaded by two sets of fibres. Transverse fibres, extending between the hemispheres, pass into its dorsal part, which is now differentiated as the corpus callosum. Into the ventral part longitudinal fibres from the hippo- campus pass to the lamina terminahs, and through that structure to the corpora mamillaria ; these fibres constitute the fornix. A small portion of the original thickening, lying antero-inferiorly between the corpus callosum and fornix, is not invaded by the commissural fibres ; it remains thin, and later a cavity forms m its interior. The cavity is the so-called fifth ventricle, and its bounding walls the septum pellucidum. .... • xi. r n • A summary of the parts derived from the brain vesicles is given m the loliowmg table :— 1. Myelencephalon Hind-brain or I Metencephalon rhombencephalon i. .3. Isthmus rhomb- encephali Mid-brain or mesencephalon . tl. Diencephalon Fore-brain 2. Telencephalon I Medulla oblongata I Lower part of fourth ^ ventricle. / Pons Varolii j Cerebellum I Upper part of fourth ^ ventricle. I Valve of Vieussens Superior peduncles of I cerebellum. , Crura cerebri J Corpora quadrigemina (Aqueduct of Sylvius. iThalamus Metathalamus Bpithalamus Pars mamillaria hypo- thalami Posterior part of third ventricle. Anterior part of third ventricle Pars optica hypo- thalami Cerebral hemispheres Lateral ventricles \Foramen of Monro. The Cranial Nerves.—With the exception of the olfactory and optic nerves, which will be specially considered, the cranial nerves are developed in a similar manner to the spinal nerves (see page 118). The sensory or afferent nerves are derived from the cells of the ganglion rudiments of the neural crest. The central processes of these cells grow into the brain and form the roots of the nerves, while the peripheral processes extend outwards and constitute their fibres of distribu- tion. It has been seen, in considering the development of the medulla oblongata (page 119), that the tractus solitarius (fig. 162), derived from the fibres which grow inwards from the ganglion rudiments of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus