THE LAEGE INTESTINE 1155 convolutions of the small intestine, and frequently by the peMc colon ; below, in the male, it is in relation with the triangular portion of the base of the bladder, the vesiculse seminales, and vasa deferentia, and more anteriorly mth the posterior surface of the prostate ; in the female, with the posterior wall of the vagina. The anal canal (fig. 955) or terminal portion of the large intestine begins at the level of the apex of the prostate, is directed downwards and backwards, and ends at the anus. It forms an angle with tlie loM'er part of the rectum, and measures from an inch to an inch and a lialf in length. It has no peritoneal covei-ing, but is invested by the SpMncter ani internus, supported by the Levatores ani, and surrounded at its termination by the Sphincter ani externus. In the empty condition it presents the appearance of an antero-posteiior longitudinal sUt. Behind it, is a mass of muscular and fibrous tissue, the ano- coccygeal body (Symington) ; in front of it, in the male, are the membranous portion and bulb of the urethra, and the base of the triangular hgament; and in the female it is separated from the lower end of the vagina "by a mass of muscular and fibrous tissue, named the perineal body. structure of the colon.—^The large intestine has four coats: serous, muscular, areolar, and mucous. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum, and invests the different portions of the large intestine to a variable extent. The caecum is completely covered by the serous membrane, except in about 5 per cent, of cases where the upper part of the posterior surface is uncovered. The ascending, descending, and ihac parts of the colon are usually covered only in front and at the sides ; a variable amount of the posterior surface is uncovered.* The transverse colon is ahnost completely invested, the parts corresponding to the attach- ment of the great omentrun and transverse mesocolon being alone excepted. The pelvic colon is entirely surrounded. The rectum is covered above on its anterior surface and sides ; below, on its anterior aspect only ; the anal canal is entirely devoid of any serous covering. In the course of the colon the peritoneal coat is thrown into a number of small pouches filled with, fat, called appendices epiploicm. They are most numerous on the transverse colon. The muscular coat consists of an external longitudinal, and an internal circular, layer of non-striped muscular fibres. The longitudinal Jibres do not form a continuous layer over the whole sm-face of the large intestme. In the caecum and colon they are especially collected into three flat longitudinal bands {tmnice coli), each of about half an inch in width. The vermiform appendix is surrounded by a uniform layer of longitudinal muscular fibres, and these bands commence at the attachment of the appendix to the cacum ; one, the posterior, IS placed along the attached border of the intestine ; the anterior, the largest, corresponds along the arch of the colon to the attachment of the great omentum, but is in front in the ascending, descending and ihac parts of the colon, and in the pelvic colon; the third, or lateral band, is found on the inner side of the ascending and descending parts of the colon, and on the under aspect of the transverse colon. These bands are shorter than the other coats of the intestine, and serve to produce the saccuh which are characteristic of the caecum and colon ; accordingly, when they are dissected off, the tube can be lengthened, and Its sacculated character becomes lost. In the pelvic colon the longitudinal fibres become more scattered; and round the rectum they spread out and form a layer, which completely encu-cles this portion of the gut, but is thicker on the anterior and posterior surfaces, where It forms two bands, than on the lateral surfaces. In addition, two bands of plain muscular tissue arise from t;he second and third coccygeal vertebra, and pass down\vards and forwards to blend with the longitudinal muscular fibres on the posterior wall of the anal canal. Ihese are known as the recto-coccygeal muscles. ThQ circular fibres ioTm & thin layer over the caecum and colon, being especially accumulated in the mtervals between the sacculi; in the rectum they form a thick layer and m the anal canal they become numerous, and constitute the Internal sphincter. ihe areolar coat connects the muscular and mucous layers closely to<rether rni«^^ T"^*"*^ ill and colon, is pale, smooth, destitute of villi, and Tthe reSuTfr^'^ 'r^'''^ folds which correspond to the intervals between the ,^cn5. mu^nl«r .^f '^^^t'^^'"' °f a darker colour, more vascular, and connected loosely to the muscular coat, m m the oesophagus. When the lower part of the rectum is contracted tontal folcfs of *° f «.^'i«i°'i «f the gut. Besides these there are certain permanent norizontal tol ls, of a semilunar shape, known as Houston's valves (fia. 956) t Thev are Sr ''s tua^^^^^^^^ ' ^^-i^timesafourth is found, and occasionaU^^nly two are pres^^^^^^ One IS situated near the commencement of the rectum, on the right side ; a second exten,£ • See footnote, p. 1151. ^ DMir, Hasp. Iteporfs, vol. v. p. 163. 4 E 2