GENERAL ANATOMY 455 there is an unexplained tendency for practically any of the voluntary muscles to become converted into solid and brittle bony masses which are completely rigid. Tendons are white, glistening, fibrous cords, varying in length and thick- ness sometimes round, sometimes flattened, of considerable length and devoid of elasticity. They consist almost entirely of white fibrous tissue the fibrils of which have an undulating course parallel with each other and are firmly united together. Tliey are very sparingly supphed with b ood- vessels the smaller tendons presenting m their interior no trace ot tliem. Nerves' supiDlying tendons liave special modifications of their terminal fibres named organs of Golgi (see page 52). The tendons consist prmcipally of a substance which yields gelatm. , ■, , j- i i Avoneuroses are flattened or ribbon-shaped tendons of a pearly-white colour, iridescent, glistening, and simUar in structure to the tendons, ihey are only sparingly supplied with blood-vessels. The tendons and aponeuroses are connected, on the one hand, with tlie muscles and, on the other hand, with the movable structures, as the bones, cartilages, ligaments, and fibrous membranes (for mstance, the sclera). Where the muscular fibres are in a direct line with those of the tendon or aponeurosis, the two are directly continuous, the muscular fibre being distmguishable from that of the tendon only by its striation. But where the muscular fibres iom the tendon or aponeurosis at an oblique angle, the former termmate, accordmg to Kolliker, in romided extremities which are received into correspondmg depressions on the surface of the latter, the connective tissue between the fibres bemg contmuous with that of the tendon. ihe latter mode of attachment occurs m all the penniform and bipenniform muscles, and in those muscles the tendons of which commence m a membranous form, as the Gastrocnemius and Soleus. • i, m • i The fascioR are fibro-areolar or aponeurotic lammae, of variable thickness and strength, found m aU regions of the body, mvestmg the softer and more delicate organs. The fasciae have been subdivided, from the situations in which they are found, into two groups, superficial and deep. The superficial fascia is found immediately beneath the mtegument over almost the entire surface of the body. It connects the skm with the deep fascia, and consists of fibro-areolar tissue, containmg in its meshes pellicles of fat in varying quantity. In the eyelids and scrotum, where fat is rarely deposited, this tissue is very liable to serous mfiltration. The superficial fascia varies m thickness in different parts of the body ; m the grom it is so thick as to be capable of being subdivided into several laminae. Beneath the fatty layer of the superficial fascia, which is immediately subcutaneous, there is generally another layer of the same structure, comparatively devoid of adipose tissue, in which the trunks of the subcutaneous vessels and nerves are found, as the superficial epigastric vessels in the abdominal region, the superficial veins in the forearm, the saphenous veins in the leg and thigh, and the superficial lymphatic glands. Certain cutaneous muscles also are situated m the superficial fascia, as the Platysma in the neck, and the Orbicularis palpebrarum around the eyelids. This fascia is most distinct at the lower part of the abdomen, the scrotum, perinaeum, and extremities; it is very thin in those regions where muscular fibres are inserted into the integument, as on the side of the neck, the face, and around the margin of tiie anus. It is very dense in the scalp, in the palms of the hands, and soles of the feet, forming a fibro-fatty layer, which binds the integument firmly to the underlying structures. The superficial fascia connects the skin to the subjacent parts, facilitates the movement of the skin, serves as a soft nidus for the passage of vessels and nerves to the integument, and retains the warmth of the body, since the fat contained in its areolae is a bad conductor of heat. The deep fascia is a dense, inelastic, unyielding fibrous membrane, forming sheaths for the muscles, and in some cases affording them broad surfaces for attachment. It consists of shinmg tendinous fibres, placed parallel with one another, and connected together by other fibres disposed in a rectilinear manner. It forms a strong investment which not only binds down collectively the muscles in each region, but gives a separate slieath to each, as well as to the vessels and nerves. The fasciae are thick in unprotected