OSTEOLOGY 236 is the optic foramen (foramen opticum), for the transmission of the optic nerve and opiithahnic artery. Tile pterygoid processes (processus pterygoidei), one on either side, descend perpendicularly from the points where the body and greater Avings unite. Each process consists of an internal and an external plate, fused above and in front, but separated below by an angular cleft, tlie 'pterygoid notch (fissura pterygoidea). the margins of which are rougli for articulation with tlic tuberosity of the palate bone. The two plates diverge behind and enclose between them a V-shaped fossa, the pterygoid fossa (fossa pterygoidea), which contains the Internal pterygoid and Tensor palati. Above this fossa is a small, oval, shallow depression, the fossa scuphoidea, which gives origin to the Tensor palati. The anterior surface of the pterygoid process is broad and triangular near its root, where it forms the posterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa and presents the anterior orifice of the Vidian canal. The external jMrygoid plate (lamina lateralis processus pterygoidei) is broad, thin, and everted ; its outer surface forms part of the inner wall of the zygomatic fossa, and gives attachment to the External pterygoid ; its inner surface forms part of the pterygoid fossa, and gives attachment to the Internal pterygoid. The internal pterygoid plate (lamina medialis processus pterygoidei) is much narrower and longer than the external; it curves outwards, at its \o\\(^v extremity, into a hook-like process, the hamular process (hamulus pterygoidei), around which the tendon of the Tensor palati muscle glides. The outer surface of this plate forms part of the pterygoid fossa, the inner surface constitutes the outer boundary of the posterior aperture of the nares. Superiorly the internal pterygoid plate is carried inwards on the under surface of the body as a thin lamina, named the vaginal process ; which articulates in fr'ont with the sphenoidal process of the palate and internally with the ala of the vomer. The angular prominence between the posterior margin of the vaginal process and the inner margin of the scaphoid fossa is named the pterygoid tubercle, immediately above wliich is the posterior oj)ening of the Vidian canal (canalis pterygoideus). On the under aspect of the vaginal process is a furrow, the sulcus pterygopalatinu^, which is converted into the pterygo-palatine canal by the sphenoidal process of the palate bone, and transmits the pterygo-palatine vessels and the pharjoigeal nerve. Projecting back^vards from near the middle of the posterior edge of the internal pterygoid plate is an angular process, the processus tuharivs, which supports the pharyngeal end of the Eustachian tube. The pharyngeal aponeurosis is attached to the entire length of the posterior edge of the internal plate, and the Superior constrictor of the pharynx takes origin from its lower third. The anterior margin of the internal pterygoid plate articulates with the posterior border of the vertical plate of the palate. The sphenoidal turbinated bones (conchas sphenoidales) are two thin, curved plates, situated at the anterior and inferior jjart of the body of the sphenoid ; they exist as separate pieces until puberty, and occasionally are not joined to the sphenoid in the adidt. An aperture of variable size exists in the anterior wall of each, and through this the sphenoidal sinus opens into the nasal fossa. Each is irregular in form, and tapers to a point behind, being broader and thinner in front. Its upper surface, wliich looks towards the cavity of the sinus, is concave ; its under surface is convex, and forms part of the roof of the corresponding nasal fossa. Each bone articulates in front with the ethmoid, externally with the palate; its pointed posterior extremity is placed above the vomer, and is received between the root of the pterygoid process on the outer side and the rostrum of the sphenoid on the inner.* Ossification.—Until the seventh or eighth month of foetal Ufe the body of the sphenoid consists of two parts—viz. one in front of the ohvary eminence, the pre-spJienoid, with which the lesser wings are continuous : the other, comprism- the sella turcica, the post-sphenoid, with which are associated the greater wmgs * A small portion of .sphenoidal tin-biiialcd bone sometimes enters into the formation of the inner wall of the orbit, between the os planum of the ethmoid in front, the orbital plate of the palate below, and the frontal above. Cleland, Hot/. Soc. Trana. 18G2.