1068 SPLANCHNOLOGY Oornicitlti laryiujh outwards, to be inserted into the lower border of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and the anterior border of the inferior cornu. The inner borders of the two FiQ. 884.—Muscles of larynx. Side view. muscles are separated in tlie Right ala of thyroid cartilage removed. middle line by a triangular f^^S\ interval, occupied by the central part of the crico-thyroid membrane. The Crico-aryte.noideus posticvs (m. cricoarytajnoideus posterior) (fig. 883) arises from the broad depression on the corresponding half of the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage ; its fibres run upwards and outwards, and converge to be inserted into the posterior surface of the muscular process at the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The upper- most fibres are nearly horizontal, the middle oblique, and the lowest almost vertical. The Crico-arytenoideus lateralis (m. cricoaryta)noideus lateralis) (fig. 884) is smaller than the pre- ceding, and of an oblong form. It arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid cartilage, and, passing obhquely upwards and backwards, is inserted into the front of the muscular process of the arytenoid cartilage. The ' Arytenoideus (m. ary- tsenoideus) (fig. 883) is a smgle muscle, filling up the posterior concave surfaces of the arytenoid cartilages. It arises from the posterior surface and outer border of one arytenoid cartilage, and is inserted into the correspond- Articular facet for inferior cornu of thyroid cartilage ing parts of the opposite cartilage. It consists of three planes of fibres, two oblique and one transverse. The oblique fibres (m. arytajnoideus obUquus), the more superficial, form two fasciculi, which pass from the base of one cartilage to the apex of the opposite one, and which therefore cross each other like the limbs of the letter X. The transverse fibres (m. ary tsenoideus trans versus), the deeper and more numerous, pass transversely across between the two cartilages. A few of the oblique fibres are continued round the outer margin of the cartilage, and are prolonged into the aryteno-epiglottic fold. They are sometimes described as a separate muscle, the Aryepiglotticus. The Thyro-arytr.noideus (m. thyreo- aryta>noideus) (figs. 880, 884, 885) is a broad, flat muscle, wliich lies parallel with the outer side of the true vocal cord and supports the wall of the ventricle. It arises Fig. 885.—Interior of the larynx, seen from above. (Enlarged.) in front from wall of the ventricle, it arises m iiuuu ""'V^^'-r ,brane receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and from the cnco-th^roid mem