901 SECOND CRANIAL NERVE from the dura mater and pia mater, the former being lost in the periosteum of the nose, the latter in the neurilemma of the nerve. Tlie olfactory nerves differ in structure from other nerves in being composed exclusively of non-raedullated fibres. They consist of axis-cylinders with distinct nucleated sheaths, in wliich there are, however, fewer nuclei than are found in ordinary non-medullated nerve-fibres. The olfactory centre in the cortex is generally associated with the rhinencephalon (p. 863). Applied Anatomy.—In severe injuries to the head involving the anterior fossa of the base of the skull, the olfactory bulb may become separated fi'om the olfactory nerves, thus producing loss of smell (anosmia), and with this there is a considerable loss in the sense of taste, since much of the perfection of the sense of taste is due to the substances being also odorous, and simultaneously exciting the sense of smell. Anosmia often occurs after influenza or other acute infection of the nose. Parosmia, or a perversion of the sense of smell, may occur in lesions of the cortical olfactory centres, or in insanity. Second Nerve (fig. 763) The Second or Optic nerve (n. opticus), the nerve of sight, is distributed exclusively to the eyeball. The nerves of opposite sides are connected together at the commissure, and from the back of the commissure they may be traced to the brain, under the name of the optic tracts. The optic tract, at its connection with the brain, is divided into two bands, external and internal. The external band is the larger ; it arises from the external geniculate body and from the pulvinar of the thalamus, and is partly continuous with the brachium of the upper quadrigeminal body. The internal band curves round the crusta, and ends in the internal geniculate body ; it.s fibres are merely commissural, forming Gudden's commissure. From these origms the tract winds obliquely across the imder surface of the crus cerebri in the form of a flattened band, and is attached to the crus by its anterior margin. It then Fig. 763.-The left optic nerve and assumes a cylindrical form, and, as it passes optic tracts, forwards, is connected with the tuber cine- reum and lamina terminahs. It finally joins with the tract of the opposite side to form the optic commissure. The optic commissure or chiasma, some- what quadrilateral in form, rests upon the olivary eminence and on the anterior part of the diaphragraa sellse, being bounded above, by the lamina terminahs ; behind, by the tuber cinereum ; on either side, by the anterior perforated space. Within the commissure, the optic nerves' of the two sides undergo a partial decussation. Tlie fibres which form the inner margin of each tract and posterior part of the commissure have no connection with the optic nerves. They simply pass across the commissure from one hemisphere of the brain to the other, and connect the internal geni- culate bodies of the two sides. They are known as the commissure of Oudden. The remaining and principal part of the commissure consists of two sets of fibres, crossed and uncrossed. The crossed, wliicli are the more numerous, occupy the central part of the commissure, and pass from the optic nerve of one side to the optic tract of the other, decussating in the commissure with similar f r \ opposite optic nerve. The uncrossed fibres occupy the outer part of the chiasma, and pass from the nerve of one side to the tract of the same side.* The great majority of the fibres of the optic nerve (fig. 764) consist of the afferent axons of nerve-ceUs in the retina ; a few, however, are efferent fibres, and grow out from the brain. They become medullated during the last month of <• ■^JjPecimen of congenital absence of the optic commissure is to be found in the Museum the Westminster Hospital. See also Henle, l^errenlelire, p. 393, ed. 2.