557 MUSCLES AND FASCI.5: Oli' THE HAND The Dorsal interossei (iiiterossei dorsales) are four in number, larger than the Palmar, and occupy the intervals between the metacarpal bones. They are bipenniform muscles, each arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metacarpal bones, but more extensively from the metacarpal bone of the finger into which the muscle is inserted. They are inserted into the bases of the first phalanges and into the aponeuroses of the common Extensor tendons. Between the double origin of each of these muscles is a narrow triangular interval, through the first of which the radial artery passes ; through each of the other three a perforating branch from the deep palmar arch is transmitted. The First dorsal interosseous tmiscle, or Abductor indicis, is larger than the others. It is flat, triangular in form, and arises by two heads, separated by a fibrous arch, for the passage of the radial artery from the dorsum to the palm of the hand. The outer head arises from tlie upper half of the ulnar border of the first metacarpal bone ; the inner head, from almost the entire length of the radial border of the second metacarpal bone ; the tendon is inserted into the radial side of the index finger. The Second and Third dorsal interossei are Fig. 533.—The Dorsal interossei Fig. 534.—The Palmar interossei of left hand. of left hand. inserted into the middle finger, the former into its radial, the latter uito its ulnar side. The Fourth is inserted into the ulnar side of the ring finger. The Palmar interossei (interossei volares), three in number, are smaller than the Dorsal, and placed upon the palmar surfaces of the metacarpal bones, rather than between them. Each arises from the entire length of the meta- carpal bone of one finger, and is inserted into the side of the base of the first phalanx and aponeurotic expansion of the common Extensor tendon of the same finger. The First arises from the ulnar side of the second metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the same side of the first phalanx of the index finger. The Second arises from the radial side of the fourth metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the same side of the ring finger. The Third arises from the radial side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the same side of the little finger. From this account it may be seen that each finger is provided with two Inter- ossei, with the exception of tiie little finger, in which the Abductor muscle takes the place of one of the pair. Nerves.—The two outer Lumbricales are supplied by the sixth cervical nerve, through the third and fourth digital branches of the median nerve : the two inner