741 SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER under aspect of the lesser wing of the sphenoid. It communicates with the lateral sinus by means of the superior petrosal sinus; with the internal jugular vein through the inferior petrosal smus and through a plexus of veins on the internal carotid artery ; with the pterygoid venous plexus through the foramen Vesalii or foramen ovale, and with the angular vein through the ophthalmic vem. The two sinuses also communicate with each other by means of the circular sinus. Applied Anatomy.—An arterio-venous communication may be established between the cavernous sinus and the internal carotid artery, giving rise to a pulsating tumour in the orbit. These communications may be the result of injury, such as a bullet wound, a stab, or a blow or fall sufficiently severe to cause a fracture of the base of the skull in this situation, or they may occur from the rupture of an aneurysm or a diseased condition of the internal carotid artery. The symptoms are sudden noise and pain in the head, followed by exophthalmos, swelling and congestion of the lids and conjunctivae, and development of a pulsating tumour at the margin of the orbit, with thrill and the characteristic bruit; accompanying these symptoms there may be impairment of sight, paralysis of the iris and orbital muscles, and pain of varying intensity. In some cases the opposite orbit becomes affected by the jjassage of the arterial blood into the opposite sinus by means of the circular sinus ; or the arterial blood may find its way through the emissary veins (see page 743) into the j)terygoid plexus, and thence into the veins of the face. Pulsating tumours of the orbit may also be due to traumatic aneurysm of one of the orbital arteries, and symptoms resembling those of pulsating tumour may be produced by pressure on the ophthalmic vein, as it enters the sinus, by an aneurysm of the internal carotid artery. Ligatm-e of the internal or common carotid artery has been performed in these cases with some degree of success. Of recent years more attention has been paid to thrombosis of the cavernous sinus than formerly, and it is now well established that caries in the upper parts of the nasal fossae and suppuration in certain of the accessory sinuses of the nose, are frequently responsible for septic thrombosis of the cavernous sinuses, in exactly the same way as lateral sinus thrombosis is due to septic disease in the mastoid process. Many deaths from meningitis, hitherto unaccounted for, are in reality due to the spread of an infection from an ethmoidal or sphenoidal air cell to the cavernous sinus, and thence to the meninges. It is obvious, therefore, that no case of chronic nasal suppuration should be left untreated. The ophthalmic veins (fig. 634) are two in number, superior and inferior. The superior ophtJialmic vein (v. ophthaknica superior) comiects the angular vein at the inner angle of the orbit with the cavernous sinus ; it pursues the Fig. 634.—^\''eins of orbit. (Poirier and Charpy.) same course as the ophthalmic artery, and receives tributaries corresponding to the branches derived from that vessel. Forming a short single trunk, it passes through the inner extremity of tlie sphenoidal fissure, and terminates m the cavernous sinus.