SYNDESMOLOGY 390 tlie other to the point of junction of the second and thu-d pieces of the sternum. Still more rarely similar ligaments are found in the other four joints of the series. In the lower two the ligament sometimes completely obliterates the cavity, so as to convert the articulation into an ampliiarthrosis. The Anterior Chondro-xiphoid (lig. costoxiphoideum anterius).—This is a band of fibres which connects the anterior surface of the seventh costal cartilage, and occasionally also that of the sixth, to the anterior surface of the ensiform process. It varies in length and breadth in different subjects. The Posterior Chondro-xiphoid (fig. costoxiphoideum posterius) is a similar though less distmct band on the posterior surface. Synovial Membranes.—There is no synovial membrane between the first costal cartilage and the sternum, as this cartUage is directly continuous with the manubrium. There are two synovial membranes in the articulation of the second costal cartUage vdth the sternum. There is generally one synovial membrane in each of the joints between the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh costal cartilages and the sternum; but it is sometimes absent in the sixth and seventh chondro-sternal joints. If an interarticular ligament exists in any of these joints, there are two synovial cavities. After middle life the articular surfaces lose theh' polish, become roughened, and the synovial membranes appear to be wanting. In old age, the articula- tions do not exist, the cartilages of most of the ribs becoming continuous with the sternum. Movements.—SUght gliding movements are permitted in the chondro-sternal articulations. Abtictoations of the Cartilages op the Ribs with each other (Artiohlationes Interohondrales) (fig. 438) The contiguous borders of the sixth, seventh, and eighth, and sometimes the ninth and tenth, costal cartilages articulate with each other by small, smooth, oblong-shaped facets. Each articulation is enclosed in a thin capsidar ligament, lined by synovial membrane and strengthened externally and internallj' by Hgamentous fibres {interchondral ligaments) which pass from one cartUage to the other. Sometimes the fifth costal cartUage, more rarely that of the ninth, articulates by its lower border with the adjoining cartUage by a smaU oval facet ; more frequently the connection is by a few ligamentous fibres. Occasionally, the articular surfaces above mentioned are wanting. Articxtlations of the Ribs with their Cartilages (Costo-chondral) The outer extremity of each costal cartUage is received into a depression in the sternal end of the rib, and the two are held together by the periosteum. VII. articulations op the sternum The first piece of the sternum is united to the second either by an amphi- arthrodial joint—a j)iece of fibro-cartUage connecting the segments—or by a diarthrodial joint, in ^\'hich eacli bone is clothed with a lamina of cartilage, adherent on one side, free on the other. In the latter case, the cartUage covering the gladiolus is continued without interruption on to the cartUages of the facets for the second ribs. Rivington found the diarthrodial form of jouit in about one-third of the specimens examined by him, Maisonneuve more frequently. It appears to be rare m chUdhood, and is formed, in Rivington's opinion, from the amphiarthrodial form, by absorption. The diarthrodial joint seems to have no tendency to ossify at any age, whUe the amphiarthrodial is more liable to do so, and has been found ossified as early as tliirty-four years of ago. The two segments are further connected by anterior and posterior inter- sternal ligaments. The Anterior Intersternal Ligament consists of longitudinal fibres, whicli blend with those of tlie anterior cliondro-sternal ligaments and with the tendinous fibres of origin of the Pectoralis major. This ligament is rough, irregular, and much thicker below than above. . The Posterior Intersternal Ligament is disposed in a somewhat simUar manner on the posterior surface of the articulation.