1029 THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE The eyebrows (supercilia) are two arched eminences of integument, which surmount the upper circumference of the orbit on either side, and support numerous short, thick hairs, du-ected obliquely on the surface. In structure, the eyebrows consist of tliickened integument, connected beneath with the Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, and Occipito-frontalis muscles. These muscles serve, by their action on tliis part, to control to a certain extent the amount of light admitted into the eye. The eyelids (palpebrse) are two thm, movable folds, placed m front of the eye, protecting it from injury by the upper 848.—^Vertical section through eyelid. (After Waldeyer.) their closure. The upper lid is the larger, and the more movable of the two, and is fm-nished with an elevator muscle, the Levator palpebr£e superioris. When the eyelids are open, an elliptical space {rima palpebrarum) is left betAveen their margins, the angles of which correspond to the junctions of the upper and lower lids, and are called canthi. The outer canthus (commis- sura palpebrarum lateralis) is more acute than the inner, and the lids here lie in close contact with the globe : but the inner canthus (commissura palpebrarum medialis) is prolonged for a short distance inwards towards the nose, and the two lids are separated by a triangular space, the lacus lacrimalis. At the basal angles of the lacus lacrimalis, on the margin of each eyelid, is a small conical elevation, the lachrymal papilla, the apex of which is pierced by a small orifice, the puncttim lacrimale, the commencement of the lachrymal canal. The eyelashes {cilia) are attached to the free edges of the eyelids; they are short, thick, curved hairs, arranged in a double or triple row at the margin of the lids : those of the upper lid, more numerous and longer than those of the lower, curve upwards; those of the lower lid curve downwards, so that they do not interlace in closing the lids. Near the attach- ment of the eyelashes are the openings of a number of glands, glands of Moll, aiTanged in several rows close to the free margin of the lid. They are regarded as enlarged and modified sweat-glands. Structure of the eyelids.—The eyelids are composed of the following structm-es taken in their order from without inwards : integument, areolar tissue, fibres of the Orbicularis muscle, tarsal plate and its ligament, Meibomian glands and conjunctiva. The upper lid has, in addition, the aponeurosis of the Levator palpebrje (fig. 848). The integument is extremely thin, and continuous at the margins of the lids with the conjunctiva. The subcutaneous areolar tissiie, is very lax and delicate, seldom contains any fat, and is extremely liable to serous infiltration. . Skin. Ii. Orbicularis palpebrarum, of Orbicularis (ciliary bundle), d.; Conjunctiva, e. Tarsal plate. J Sebaceous gland, h. Ey elashes. Sweat-glands, k. Posterior tarsal glands. V. Marginal fasciculus c. Levator palpebrte. f. Meibomian gland, t. Small haire of skin.