682 ANGIOLOGY A little above the iuterdigital clefts tliey are joined by the palmar interosBeous arteries, and by the inferior perforating branches of the dorsal interosseous arteries. Each then divides into collateral digital arteries (aa. digitales volares propria?) for the supply of the contiguous sides of the index, middle, ring, and little fingers. These collateral branches lie behind the corresponding digital nerves; they anastomose freely in the subcutaneous tissue of the finger-tip, and by smaller branches near the iuterphalangeal joints. Each gives off a couple of dorsal branches which anastomose with the dorsal digital arteries, and supply the soft parts on the back of the second and third phalanges, including the matrix of the finger-nail. Surface Marking.—The superficial palmar arch is represented by a curved line, starting from the outer side of the pisiform bone, and carried downwards and outwards as far as the base of the thumb, with the convexity towards the fingers. The lowest point of the arch is usually on a level %vith the lower border of the outstretched thumb. The deep palmar arch is situated about half an inch nearer to the carpus. Applied Anatomy.—Wounds of the palmar arches are of special interest, and are always difficult to deal ^vith. When the superficial arch is wounded it is generally possible, enlarging the wound when necessary, to secure the vessel and tie it on both sides of the bleeding point; or in cases where it is foimd impossible to encircle the vessel wth a Ugature, a pair of Wells's artery clips may be applied and left on for twenty-four or forty-eight hours. Failing this, the wound may be plugged with gauze and an outside dressing carefully bandaged on. The plug should be allowed to remain untouched for three or four days. It is useless in these cases to ligature one of the arteries of the forearm alone, and indeed simidtaneous ligature of both radial and ulnar arteries above the ivrist is often unsuccessful, on accoimt of the anastomosis carried on by the carpal arches. Therefore, upon the failure of pressure to arrest haimorrhage, it is expedient to apply a ligature to the brachial artery. Wlien an incision for deep-seated suppuration in the tendon- sheath is required, the situation of the superficial arch must alwaj^s be borne in mind, and the incisions placed either above or below it. The position of the digital branches of the artery must also be remembered, and incisions must be made opposite the heads of the metacarpal bones and not between them. ARTERIES OP THE TRUNK The Descending Aorta The descending aorta is divided into two portions, the Hwracic and abdominal, in correspondence with the two great cavities of the trunk in which it is situated. The Thoracic Aorta The thoracic aorta (aorta thoracalis) is contained m the back part of the posterior mediastinum. It commences at the lower border of the fourth thoracic vertebra, and terminates in front of the lower border of the twelfth at tlie aortic opening in the Diaphragm. At its commencement, it is situated on the left side of the vertebral column ; it approaches the median line as it descends ; and, at its termination, lies directly in front of the column, its direction being influenced by the vertebral column, upon which it rests, the vessel describes a curve which is concave forwards. As the branches given off from it are small, its diminution in size is inconsiderable. Relations.—It is in relation, in front, from above downwards, with the root of the left lung, the pericardium, the oesophagus, and the Diaphragm with the vertebral column, and the azygos minor vcms ; on the nght side, vcit\x the vena azygos major, and thoracic duct; on the sirfc, with the left pleura and lung. The oesophagus, with its accompanying nerves, hes on tlie right side of the aorta above ; but at the lower part of the thorax it is placed m front ot the aorta, and, close to the Diaphragm, is situated to its left side. PecicUarities.-The aorta is occasionally foimd to be obliterated the juncU^ of the arch .vith the thoracic aorta, just below the ductus arteriosus ^^^f ^^^J^,^^,J', the result of disease, or of congenital malformation, is immaterial to ^^.'^^^^^^'"[1'°^;' it affords an interesting opportunity of observing the resource^ of j.^^,^^ f r^^, ^ ^^^^^ The course of the anastomosing vessels, by ^vh.ch the blood is to the lower part of the artery, will be found well described m %\",^,;"""*Xv in the ' Pathological Transactions,' vols. viii. and x. In the thus sums up the detailed description of the nnnstomosmg vessels: The principal