SYNDESMOLOGY 446 in texture, and covered by the Extensor tendons. The inferior calcaneo- navicular sujDphes the place of an inferior ligament. The Synovial Membrane lines all parts of the capsule of the joint Movements.—This articulation permits of a considerable range of gliding move- ments ; its feeble construction allows occasionally of dislocation of the other bones of the tarsus from the astragalus. 3. Articitlations of the Os Caxcis with the Cttboid (Articulatio Calcaneocuboidea) The ligaments connecting the os calcis M'ith the cuboid are five m number : Capsular Dorsal ] Superior Calcaneo-cuboid. (Internal Calcaneo-cuboid (Interosseous). Plantar \ ^^^S Calcaneo-cuboid. {Short Calcaneo-cuboid. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) is an imperfectly developed layer, contammg certain strengthened bands, which form the other named ligaments of the joint. The Superior or Dorsal Calcaneo-cuboid Ligament (fig. 476) is a thm but broad fasciculus, which passes between the contiguous surfaces of the os ^ ^ ^ calcis and cuboid, on the dorsal surface Fig. 479.—Ligamenta of plantar sui'face of the joint. The Internal Calcaneo-cuboid (Interosseous) Ligament (fig. 476) is a short, but thick and strong band of fibres, arising from the os calcis, in the deep hoUoM^ which intervenes between it and the astragalus, and closely blended at its origin ^dth the superior calcaneo-naAdcular Hgament, so as to form with it a V-shaped struc- ture. It is inserted into the inner side of the cuboid bone. This Hgament forms one of the chief bonds of union betAveen the first and second rows of the tarsus. The Long Calcaneo-cuboid or Long Plantar Ligament (Ug. plan- tare longum) (fig. 479), the more super- ficial of the two plantar hgaments, is the longest of aU the hgaments of the tarsus : it is attached to the under surface of the os calcis, from near the tuberosities to the anterior tubercle : its fibres pass forwards to be attached to the ridge on the under surface of the cuboid bone, the more superficial fibres beuig continued onw ards to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. This ligament crosses the groove on the under surface of the cuboid bone, converting it into a canal for the passage of the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The Short Calcaneo-cuboid or Short Plantar Ligament (hg. cal- caneocuboideum plantare) (fig. 479) lies nearer to the bones than the preceding, from which it is separated by a little areolar tissue. It is exceedingly broad, about an mch in length, and extends from the tubercle and the depression m front of it, on tlie fore part of the right foot.