1167 THE LIVER The longitudinal fissure (fossa sagittalis sinistra) is a deep groove, M'^hieh extends from the notch on the anterior margin of tlie liver to the upper border of the posterior surface of the organ; it separates the right and left lobes. The transverse fissure joins it, at right angles, and divides it into two parts. The anterior part, or umbilical fissure (fossa venae umbilicalis), lodges the umbilical vein in the foetus, and its remains (the ligamentura teres) in the adult ; it lies between the quadrate lobe and tlie left lobe of the liver, and is often partially bridged over by a prolongation of the hepatic substance, the pons hepatis. The posterior part, or fissure for the ductus venosus (fossa ductus venosi), lies between the left lobe and the lobe of Spigelius ; it lodges in the foetus the ductus venosus, and in the adult a slender fibrous cord (lig. venosum), the obUterated remains of that vessel. The transverse or portal fissure (porta hepatis) is a short but deep fissure, about two inches in length, extending transversely across the under surface of the left portion of the right lobe, nearer its posterior surface than its anterior border. It joins nearly at right angles with the longitudinal fissure, and separ- ates the quadrate lobe in front from the caudate and Spigelian lobes behind. It transmits the portal vein, the hepatic artery and nerves, and the hepatic duct and lymphatics. The hepatic duct lies in front and to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the portal vein behind and between the duct and artery. The fissure for the gall-bladder (fossa vesicae feHese) is a shallow, oblong fossa, placed on the under surface of the right lobe, parallel with the longi- tudinal fissure. It extends from the anterior free margin of the liver, which is notched by it, to the right extremity of the transverse fissure. The fissure for the itiferior vena cava (fossa venae cavae) is a short deep fissui'e, occasionally a complete canal, in consequence of the substance of the liver surrounding the vena cava. It extends obliquely upwards on the posterior surface from the lobus caudatus wMch separates it from the transverse fissure, and is situated between the Spigelian lobe and the bare area of the Uver. On slitting open the inferior vena cava the orifices of the hepatic veins will be seen opening into this vessel at its upper part, after perforating the floor of this fissure. Lobes.—The lobes of the liver, like the Hgaments and fissures, are five in number—the right lobe, the left lobe, the lobus quadratus, the lobus Spigelii, and the lobus caudatus, the last three being merely parts of the right lobe. The right lobe is much larger than the left ; the proportion between them being as six to one. It occupies the right hypochondrium, and is separated from the left lobe on its upper and anterior surfaces by the falciform ligament; on its under and posterior surfaces by the longitudinal fissure ; and in front by the umbilical notch. It is of a somewhat quadrilateral form, its under and posterior surfaces being marked by three fissures : the transverse fissure, the fissure for the gall-bladder, and the fissure for the inferior vena cava, which separate its left part into three smaller lobes : the lobus Spigelu, lobus quadi-atus, and lobus caudatus. The impressions on the right lobe have already been desexibed. The lobus quadratus is situated on the under surface of the right lobe, bounded in front by the inferior margin of the liver ; behind by the trans- verse fissure ; on the right, by the fossa for the gall-bladder ; and on the left, by the umbilical fissure. It is oblong in shape, its antero-posterior diameter being greater than its transverse. The lobus Spigelii is situated upon the posterior surface of the right lobe of the liver, opposite the tenth and eleventh thoracic vertebrae. It is bounded, below, by the transverse fissure ; on the right, by the fissure for the inferior vena cava ; and, on the left, by the fissure for the ductus venosus. It looks backwards, being nearly vertical in position ; it is longer from above downwards than from side to side, and is somewhat concave in the transverse direction. The lobus caudatus, or tailed lobe, is a small elevation of the hepatic substance extending obliquely outwards, from the lower extremity of the lobus Spigelii to the under surface of the right lobe. It is situated beliind the transverse fissure, and separates the fissure for the gall-bladder from the commencement of the fissure for the inferior vena cava. _ The left lobe is smaller and more flattened than the right. It is situated in the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions. Its upper surface is slightly