1221 THE OVARIES The ova are usually regarded as being formed from the germinal epithelium on the surface of the ovary. This becomes thickened, and in it are seen some cells which are larger and more rounded than the rest: these are termed the -primordial ova. The germinal epithelium grows downwards in the form of tubes or columns, termed the egg tubes of Pfliiger, into the ovarian stroma, which grows outwards between the tubes, and ultimately cuts them oi? from the germinal epithelium. These tubes are fm-ther subdivided into rounded nests or groups, each containing a primordial ovum which undergoes further development and growth while the surrounding cells of the nest form the epithelium of the Graafian follicle. The development and maturation of the Graafian follicles and ova continue uninter- ruptedly from puberty to the end of the fi-uitful period of woman's life, while their formation commences before birth. Before puberty the ovaries are small, the Graafian follicles contained in them are disposed in a comparatively thick layer in the cortical substance ; here they present the appearance of a large number of minute closed vesicles, constituting the early condition of the Graafian follicles ; many, however, never attain full development, but shrink and disappear. At puberty the ovaries enlarge and become more vascular, the Graafian follicles are developed in greater abundance, and their ova are capable of fecundation. Discharge of the ovum.—^The Graafian folhcles, after attaining a certain stage of develop- ment, gradually approach the surface of the ovary and biu-st; the ovum and fluid contents of the folhcle are liberated on the exterior of the ovary, and carried into the Fallopian tube by peritoneal cmTents set up by the movements of the eiha covering the mucous membrane of the fimbria3. Vessels and Nerves.^—The arteries of the ovaries and Fallopian tubes are the ovarian from the aorta. Each enters the attached border, or hilus, of the corresponding ovary. The veins emerge from the hilus in the form of a plexus, the pampiniform plexus ; the ovarian vein is fonned from this plexus, and leaves the pelvis in company with the artery. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric or pelvic plexus, and from the ovarian plexus, the Fallopian tube receiving a branch from one of the uterine nerves. Applied Anatomy.—Tlie inflammations which aSect the ovary are merely an extension of those from the tube. Ovarian new formations are of common occurrence, and are either solid or cystic ; the former being the less common. The ' ovarian cysls ' in the majority of cases are cystadenomata which may assume enormous dimensions ; in rarer instances they form from the tubules at the hilus of the ovary or those of the organ of Rosenmiiller ; in other instances a clear watery cyst forms between the layers of the broad ligament. An ovarian cyst, once diagnosed, should always be removed, as it is hable to become affected by suppru-ation, torsion of its pedicle, or other serious complications. The operation for its removal, badly termed ovariotomy, consists in opening the abdomen, and reducing the size of the cyst when large by tapping it before its withdi'awal from the abdomen ; the pedicle is then clamped with a large forceps, and the cyst is cut free. This pedicle must then be transfixed and secm-ely ligatured by an interlocking ligature, which will not slip off. The pedicle consists of an elongated part of the broad ligament, including the Fallopian tube and ovarian artery, and a great number of large veins. Ovariotomy for a simple uncomplicated cyst presents no special difficulties, but, in cases where there are old adhesions implicating the small intestines, it may present very great difficulties. The Fallopian Tubes (figs. 1010, 1013) The Fallopian tubes, or oviducts, convey the ova from the ovaries to the cavity of the uterus. They are two in number, one on either side, situated in the upper margin of the broad ligament, and extending from either superior angle of the uterus to the side of the pelvis. Each tube is about four inches in length ; and is described as consisting of three portions : (1) the isthmus, or inner constricted third ; (2) the ampulla, or outer dilated portion, which curves over the ovary ; and (3) the infundibulum, with its ostium abdominale, surrounded by fimbrim, one of which, the fimbria ovarica, is attached to the ovary. The Fallopian tube is directed outwards as far as the lo\\-er or uterine pole of the ovary, and then ascends along the anterior border of the ovary to the upper or tubal pole, over which it arclies ; finally it turns down- wards and ends in relation to the posterior border and inner surface of the ovary. The uterine opening is minute, and will only admit a fine bristle; the abdominal opening is somewliat larger. In cormection with the fimbriae of the Fallopian tube, or with tlio broad hgament close to them, there are frequently one or more small pedunculated vesicles. These are termed the hydatids of Morgagni. structure.—^The Fallopian tube consists of three coats: serous, muscular, and mucous. The external or serotis coat is peritoneal. The middle or muscular coat consists of