SYNDESMOLOGY 444 Applied Anatomy.—As the ankle-joint is a very strong and powerful articulation displacement of the trochlear surface of the astragalus from the tESar ^rt^e "s not of common occurrence, and great force is required to produce it. Nevertheless dislocation does occasionally occur, both m an antero-posterior and a lateral direcUon In the latter, which is the more common, fracture is a necessary accompaniment of the mjury. The dislocation m these cases is somewhat peculiar, and is not a displacement in a horizontally lateral cbrection, such as usually occurs m lateral dislocations of guiSo d joints, but the astragalus undergoes a partial rotation round an antero-posterior axis dravvn through Its own centre, so that the superior surface, instead of bemg directed dfspracTment"^" ^^^^ ^^"''^^^^ outwards according to the variety of the The anMe-joint is more frequently spramed than any jomt in the body, and this may lead to acute synovitis. In these cases, when the synovial sac is distended with fluid the bulgmg appears principally in the front of the joint, beneath the anterior tendons, and on either side between the Tibialis anticus and the internal lateral ligament on the inner side, and between the Peroneus tertius and the external lateral Ugament on the outer side. In addition to this, bulgmg often occurs posteriorly, and a fluctuatmg sweUing may be detected on either side of the tendo Achillis. ^ J Chronic synovitis may result from frequent sprauas, and when once this joint has been sprained it is more hable to a recurrence of the injury than it was before ; or the synovitis may be tuberculous m its origm, the disease usually commencmg in the astragalus and extending to the jomt, though it may commence in the synovial membrane, the result probably of some slight strain in a tuberculous subject. Excision of the ankle-joint is not often performed, for two reasons. In the first place disease of the articulation for which this operation is indicated is frequently associated with disease of the tarsal bones, which prevents its performance ; and, secondly, the foot after excision is often of very little use ; far less useful, in fact, than it is after Syme's amputation, which is, therefore, a preferable operation in these cases. V. INTEETARSAL ARTICULATIONS (ARTICULATI0NE3 INTERTARSE^) 1. Articulation of the Os Calcis and Astragalus (Articulatio Talocalcanba) The articulations between the os calcis and astragalus are two in number— anterior and posterior. Of these, the anterior forms part of the joint between the OS calcis, astragalus, and navicular, and will be described as the astragalo- €alcaneo-navicular articulation. Tlie posterior or astragalo-calcanean articula- tion is formed between the posterior and larger facet on the inferior surface of the astragalus, and the external facet on the superior surface of the os calcis. It is an artlirodial joint, and the two bones are connected together bv the following ligaments : Capsular. Anterior Calcanco-astragaloid. External Calcaneo-astragaloid. Posterior Calcaneo-astragaloid. Internal Calcaneo-astragaloid. Interosseous. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) surrounds the two articular surfaces, and consists for the most part of short fibres, which are spUt up into distinct slips, forming the specially named ligaments of the articulation ; between them there is only a \\'eak fibrous investment. The External Calcaneo-astragaloid Ligament (lig. talocalcaneum laterale) (fig. 476) is a short, strong fasciculus, passing from the outer surface of the astragalus, immediately beneath its external facet, to the outer surface of the OS calcis. It is placed in front of, but on a deeper plane than, the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, with tlie fibres of which it is parallel. Tlio Internal Calcaneo-astragaloid Ligament (lig. talocalcaneum mediale) is a band of fibres connecting the internal tubercle of the back of the astragalus with the back of the sustentaculum tali. Its fibres blend with those of the inferior calcaneo-naviciilar ligament. The Anterior Calcaneo-astragaloid Ligament (hg. talocalcaneum an- terius) extends from the front and outer surface of the neck of tlie astragalus to the superior surface of tlie os calcis. It forms the posterior boundary of the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid joint, and is sometimes described as the anterior interosseous ligament.