645 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY the tip of the styloid process and the stylo-hyoid ligament, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the pharyngeal branch of the pncumogastric. It is in relation, behind, with the Rectus capitis anticus major, the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and the superior laryngeal nerve; externally, with the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve, the nerve lying on a plane posterior to the artery ; internally, with the pharynx, tonsil, the superior laryngeal nerve, and ascending pharyngeal artery. At the base of the skull the glosso-pharyngeal, vagus, spinal accessory, and hypoglossal nerves lie between the artery and the internal jugular vein. Petrous Portion.—'When the internal carotid artery enters the canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, it first ascends a short distance, then curves forwards and inwards, and again ascends as it leaves the canal to enter the cavity of the skull between the lingula and petrosal process of the sphenoid. The artery lies at first in front of the cochlea and tympanic cavity; from the latter cavity it is separated by a thin, bony lamella, which is cribriform in the yomig subject, and often partly absorbed in old age. Farther forwards it is separated from the Gasserian ganglion by a thin plate of bone, which forms the floor of the fossa for the ganglion and the roof of the horizontal portion of the canal. Frequently this bony plate is more or less deficient, and then the ganglion is separated from the artery by fibrous membrane. The artery is separated from the bony wall of the carotid canal by a prolongation of dura mater, and is surrounded by a number of small veins and by filaments of the carotid plexus, derived from the ascending branch of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Cavernous Portion.—The internal carotid artery, in this part of its course, is situated between the layers of the dura mater forming the cavernous sinus, but covered by the lining membrane of the sinus. It at first ascends towards the posterior clinoid process, then passes forwards by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and again curves upwards on the inner side of the anterior clinoid psocess, and perforates the dura mater forming the roof of the sinus. In this part of its coiurse it is svuTomided by filaments of the sympathetic nerve, and on its outer side is the sixth nerve. Cerebral Portion.—Having perforated the dura mater on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, the internal carotid passes between the second and third cranial nerves to the anterior perforated space at the inner extremity of the fissure of Sylvius, where it gives o£E its terminal or cerebral branches. This portion of the artery has the optic nerve on its inner side, and the third nerve on its outer. Peculiarities.—The length of the internal carotid varies according to the length of the neck, and also according to the point of bifurcation of the common carotid. It arises sometimes from the arch of the aorta ; in such rare instances, this vessel has been found to be placed nearer the middle line of the neck than the external carotid, as far upwards as the larynx, when the latter vessel crossed the internal carotid. The com-se of the artery, instead of being straight, may be very tortuous. A few instances are recorded in which this vessel was altogether absent; in one of these the common carotid passed up the neck, and gave off the usual branches of the external carotid; the cranial portion of the internal carotid was replaced by two branches of the internal maxillary, which entered the skull through the foramen rotimdum and foramen ovale, and joined to form a single vessel. Applied Anatomy.—The cervical part of the internal carotid is very rarely woimded. It is, however, sometimes injured by a stab or gunshot woimd in the neck, or even occasionally by a stab from within the mouth, as when a person receives a thrust from the end of a parasol, or falls down with a tobacco-pipe in his mouth. Although the internal carotid hes about three-quarters of an inch behind and external to the tonsil, instances nave occurred in which the artery has been wounded during the operation of scarifying the toasil, and fatal hsemorrhage has supervened. The incision for ligature of the cervical portion of the internal carotid shoidd be made along the anterior border of the Sterno- mastoid, from the angle of the jaw to the upper border of the thyioid cartilage. The superficial structures being divided, and the Sterno-mastoid defined and dra^^^l outwards, the cellular tissue must be carefully separated and the posterior beUy of the Digastric and liypoglossal nerve sought for as guides to the vessel. AVhen the artery is found, the external carotid should be draivn inwards and the Digastric muscle upwards, and the aueuiysm needle passed fi-om without inwards. Obstruction of the internal carotid by embolism or thi-ombosis may give rise to symptoras of cerebral anemia and softening if the collateral circulation is ill-developed, the patient suffers from giddiness, with failure of the mental powers, and convulsions, coma, or hemiplegia on the opposite side of the body, may be observed.