LATERAL VERTEBRAL REGION 489 the clavicular head. The anterior border is defined by drawing a line from the tip of the mastoid process to the sterno-clavicular joint. It is an important surface-marking in the operation of ligature of the common carotid artery. Between the sternal and clavicular heads is a slight depression, most marked when the muscle is in action, which overlies the lower part of the internal jugular vein. This is bounded below by the promi- nent sternal extremity of the clavicle. Between the sternal origins of the t-H'o muscles is a V-shaped depression, the suprasternal notch, more pronounced below, and less so aljove, where the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, lying upon the trachea, become more prominent. Above the hyoid bone, in the middle line, the anterior belly of the Digastric to a certain extent influences surface form. It corresponds to a line di-awn from the symphysis menti to the side of the body of the hyoid bono, and renders this part of the hyo-mental region convex. In the posterior triangle of the neck, the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, when in action, forms a conspicuous object, esf)ecially in thin necks, presenting a cord-like form running across this region, almost parallel with, and a little above, the clavicle. MUSCLES AND FASCLE OF THE TRUNK The Muscles of the Trunk may be arranged in four groups, corresponding wit li tlie regions in which they are situated. I. The Back. II. The Thorax. III. The Abdomen. IV. The Pelvis. V. The PerinsEum. I. Muscles op the Back The muscles of the back are very numerous, and may be subdivided into five layers. First Layer Trapezius. Latissimus dorsi. Second Layer Levator anguli scapulae. Rhomboideus minor. Rhomboideus major. Third Layer Serratus posticus superior. Serratus posticus inferior. Splenius capitis. Splenius colli. Fourth Layer Sacral and Lumbar Regions Erector spinaj. Thoracic Region. Ilio-costalis. Musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem. Longissimus dorsi. Spinalis dorsi. Cervical Region Cervicalis ascendens. Transversahs cervicis. Trachelo-mastoid. Complexus. Biventer cervicis. Spinalis colli. Pefth Layer Semispinalis dorsi. SemispinaUs colli. Multifidus spinae. Rotatores spinae. Interspinales. Extensor coccygis. Intertransversales. Rectus capitis posticus major. Rectus capitis posticus minor. Obliquus capitis inferior. Obliquus capitis superior. Trapezius. First Layer Latissimus dorsi. _ The superficial fascia forms a layer of considerable thiclmess and strength, in which a quantity of granular pinkish fat is contained. It is continuous |vith the general superficial fascia. The deep fascia is a dense fibrous ayer, attached above to the superior curved line of tlie occipital bone ; in •^'le middle line it is attached to the ligamentum nuchas, and to the spinous processes and supraspinous ligaments of all tlie vertebrije below the seventh cervical; laterally, in the neck it is continuous with the deep cervical lascia ; over the shoulder it is attached to the spine of the scapula and the