955 BRACHIAL PLEXUS tlie Subclavius muscle and suprascapular vessels, and lies upon the first serration of the Serratus magnus, and the Subscapuiaris. In the axilla it is placed on the outer side of the fii'st portion of the axillary artery ; it surrounds the second part of the artery, one cord lying upon the outer side of that vessel, one on tlie inner side, and oiie beliind it ; and at the lower part of the axillary space gives off its terinmal branches to the upper extremity. Branches of communication.—The brachial plexus communicates Avith the cervical plexus by a branch from the fourth to the fifth nerve, and with the phrenic nerve by a branch from the fifth cervical, which joins that nerve on the Scalenus anticus. Close to their exit from the intervertebral foramina the fifth and sixth cervical nerves are joined by filaments from the middle cervical ganglion of tlie sympathetic, the seventh and eiglith cervical by twigs from the inferior ganglion, and the first thoracic nerve by a branch from the first thoracic ganglion. Branches of distribution.—The branches of the brachial plexus may be arranged into two groups, viz. those given off above and those below the clavicle. SUPEACLAVICTJLAR BbANCHES ^ . ,. (with phrenic 5 C. Communicating I^^.^l^^yj^p^^j^g^i^ . 5, 6, 7, 8 C, 1 T. Rhomboids (posterior scapular) . 5 C. !?K?inatur I (suprascapular) . 5,6 0. Muscular to . , Subclavius 5, 6 C. Serratus magnus (posterior thoracic) 5, 6, 7 C. Longus colli 5, 6, 7, 8 C. ^Scaleni 5, 6, 7, 8 C. The communicating branch with the plu-enic is derived from the fifth cervical nerve or from the loop between the fifth and sixth ; it joins the phrenic on the Scalenus anticus. The communications with the sympathetic have already been referred to. The unnamed muscular branches supply the Longus colli, Scaleni, and Subclavius. Those for the Longus colli and Scaleni arise from the four lower cervical nerves at their exit from the intervertebral foramina. The nerve to the Subclavius is a smaU filament, which arises from the fifth cervical at its point of junction with the sixth nerve ; it descends in front of the third part of the subclavian artery and the lower trunk of the plexus, to the muscle, and is usually connected by a filament with the phrenic nerve. The posterior scapular (n. dorsalis scapula), or nerve to the Rhomboids, arises from the fifth cervical, pierces the Scalenus medius, and passes beneath the Levator anguli scapulse, which it occasionally supplies, to the Rhomboid muscles. The posterior thoracic (n. thoracalis longus), or external respiratory of Bell (fig. 801) supplies the Serratus magnus, and is remarkable for the length of its com-se. It usually arises by three roots from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves ; but the root from the seventh nerve may be absent. The roots from the fifth and sixth nerves pierce the Scalenus medius, while that from the seventh nerve emerges from in front of the muscle. The nerve passes down behind tlie brachial plexus and the axillary vessels, resting on the outer surface of the Serratus magnus. It extends along the side of the chest to the lower border of that muscle, supplying filaments to each of its digitations. The suprascapular (n. suprascapularis) (fig. 802) arises from the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves ; running obliquely outwards beneath the Trapezius and the Omo-hyoid, it enters the suprasj^inous fossa through the suprascapular notch, below the transverse or suprascapular ligament; it then jmsses beneath the Supraspinatus muscle, and curves round the external border of the spine of the scapula to the infraspinous fossa. In the supraspinous fossa it gives off two brandies to the Supraspinatus muscle, and an articular filament to tlie shoulder-joint; and in the infraspinous fossa it gives off two branches to the Infraspinatus muscle, besides some filaments to the shoulder-joint and scapula.