DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL ORGANS OF GENERATION 177 The labio-scrotal folds meet and uuite in the middle line to form the scrotum, their Une of union being indicated by the median raphe. The prepuce is formed by the growth of a solid plate of ectoderm into the superficial part of the genital tubercle ; on coronal section this plate presents the shape of a horseshoe. By the brealdng down of its more centrally situated cells this plate is split into two lamellse, and a cutaneous fold, the prepuce, is liberated and forms a hood over the glans. ' Adherent prepuce is not an adhesion really, but a hindered central desquamation ' (Berry Hart, op. cit.).* The homologies of the diiferent parts of the sexual organs may be stated in tabular form as follows :— IKDIFPERENT STAGE Male Female Genital ridge Testis. Ovary. Wolffian body. Rete testis, vasa efferentia, coni vasculosi, organ of Giraldes. Epoophoron or organ of Rosenmiiller. Parooph- oron. Wolffian duct . Canal of epididymis, vas deferens, common ejacu- latory duct. Seminal vesicle. Hydatid of Morgagni. (Duct of Gartner.) Miillerian ducts . Sessile hydatids of epididy- mes. Uterus masculinus. Fallopian tubes, uterus, vagina. Genital tubercle . Corpora cavernosa and glans penis. Clitoris. Urogenital sinus . Prostatic and membranous parts of urethra. Urethra. Vestibule. Inner genital folds. Penile urethra, bulb and corpus spongiosum. Labia minora. Labio-scrotal folds Scrotum. Labia majora. THE FORM OF THE EMBRYO AT DIFFERENT STAGES OF ITS GROWTH First Week.—During the early part of this period the ovum is in the FaUopian tube. Having been fertilised in the upper part of the tube, it slowly passes down, undergoing segmentation, and reaches the uterus before the end of the first week. Petersf described a specimen, the age of which he reckoned as from three to four days. It was imbedded in the decidua on the posterior wall of the uterus and enveloped by a decidua capsularis, the central part of which, however, consisted merely of a layer of fibrin. The ovum was in the form of a sac, the outer wall of which consisted of a layer of trophoblast; inside this was a thin layer of mesoderm composed of round, oval, and spindle-shaped cells. Numerous villous processes—some consisting of trophoblast only, others possessing a core of mesoderm—projected from the surface * Spicer (Jmimal of Anatoviy and Physiology, vol. xliii. 1909) describes the prepuce as arising in the form of an annular hood of mesodermal tissue which proceeds forwards ■within the stibstance of tlie surrounding epithelium. ' The main portion of this hood sjirings from mesoblastic tissue considerably posterior to the corvi.x glandis, in the form of a crescentic swelling or collar, and this creeps forward, burrowing always in the epithelial layers, bridging over the groove of the cervix which is filled with epidermal cells, and finally overlaps the body of the glans. This hood is the prepuce.' ' The epidermis covering the glans thus becomes divided into two layers: an outer, which forms the superficial covering of the prepuce, and an inner, which remains as a more or less solid layer between the prepuce and the glans until after birth. From it is differentiated a basal layer of cubical or cylindrical epithelium to line the inner aspect of the prepuce, and another to cover the surface of the glans, while central desquamation ensues later and prepares the way for a movable prepuce.' t Die JEinbetlung des Monsohliehen Hies, 1899. N