504 MYOLOGY and arc replaced by areolar tissue. One between the fibres of origin from the ensiform cartilage and those from the cartilages of the adjoining ribf< transmits the superior epigastric brancli of the internal mammary artery and some lymphatics from the abdominal wall and convex surface of the liver. The other, between the fibres springing from the internal and external arcuate ligaments, is less constant ; when this interval exists, the upper and back part of the kidney is separated from the pleura by areolar tissue only. Belalions.—The upper surface of the Diaphragm is in relation with three serous mem- branes, Yiz. on either side the pleura, which separates it from the base of the corresponding lung, and on the middle leaflet of the central tendon the pericardium, which intervenes between it and the heart. The central portion lies on a slightly lower level than the siunmits of the lateral portions. The greater part of the under surface is covered by the peritoneum. The right side is accurately moulded over the convex surface of the right, lobe of the liver, the right kidney, and right suprarenal capsule, the left over the left lobe of the hver, the fundus of the stomach, the spleen, the left kidney, and left suprarenal capsule. Nerves.—The Diaphragm is supplied by the phrenic and lower intercostal nerves. Actions.—The Diaphragm is the principal muscle of inspiration, and presents the form of a dome concave towards the abdomen. The central part of the dome is tendinous, and the pericardium is attached to its upper surface ; the circum- ference is muscular. During inspiration the lowest ribs are fixed, and from these and the crura the muscular fibres contract and draw downwards and forwards the central tendon with the attached pericardium. In this movement the curva- ture of the Diaphragm is scarcely altered, the dome moving downwards nearly parallel to its original position and pushing before it the abdominal viscera. The descent of the abdominal viscera is permitted by the elasticity of the abdominal wall, but the hmit of this is soon reached. The central tendon apphed to the abdominal viscera then becomes a fixed point for the action of the Diaphragm, the effect of which is to elevate the lower ribs and through them to push forwards the gladiolus sterni and the upper ribs. The right cupola of the Diaphragm, hang on the liver, has a greater resistance to overcome than the left, which hes over the stomach, but to compensate for this the right crus and the fibres of the right side generally are stronger than those of the left. In all expulsive acts the Diaphragm is called into action to give additional power to each expulsive effort. Thus, before sneezing, coughing, laughing, crying, or vomiting, and previous to the expulsion of urine or feces, or of the foetus from the uterus, a deep inspiration takes place. The height of the Diaphragm is con- stantly varying during respiration ; it also varies with the degree of distension of the stomach and intestines and with the size of the hver. After a forced expira- tion the right cupola is on a level in front with the fourth costal cartilage, at the side with the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs, and behind with the eighth rib ; the left cupola is a httle lower than the right. Halls Dally * states that the absolute range of movement between deep inspiration and deep expiration averages in the male and female 30 mm. on the right side and 28 mm. on the left: in quiet respiration the average movement is 12'5 mm. on the right side and 12 mm. on the left. Skiagraphy shows that the height of the Diaphragm in the thorax varies considerably with the position of the body. It stands highest when the body is horizontal and the patient on his back, and in this position it performs the largest respiratory excursions with normal breathing. When the body is erect the dome of the Diaphragm falls, and its respiratory movements become smaller. The dome falls still lower when the sitting posture is assumed, and in this position its respiratory excursions are smallest. Tliese facts may, perhaps, explain why it is that patients suffering from severe dyspnoea are most comfortable and least short of breath when they sit up. When the body is horizontal and the patient on his side, the two halves of the Diaphragm do not behave ahke. Tlie uppermost half sinks to a level lower even than when the patient sits, and moves little with respiration ; the lower half rises higher in the thorax than it does when the patient is supine, and it.s respiratory excursions are much increased. In unilateral disease of the pleura or lungs analogous interference with the position or movement of the Diaphragm can generally be observed skiagraphically. ♦ ' Inquiry into the Physiological Mechanism of llespiration.' Journal of An/jUmy and I'lnjsiology, vol. .xliii. 1908.