OSTEOLOGY 358 Articulations.—The imddle cuneiform articulates with four bones: th<- navicular, internal and external cuneiforms, and second metatarsal. The External Cuneefoem (fig. 410) The External Cuneiform (os cuneiforme tertium), intermediate in size between the two preceding, is of a very regular wedge-like form, the broad extremity being placed upwards, the narrow end downwards. It occupies the centre of the front row of the tarsal bones, between the middle cuneiform internally, the cuboid externally, the navicular behind, and the third meta- tarsal in front. The anterior surface, triangular in form, articulates with the third meta- tarsal bone. The posterior surface articulates with the most external facet of the navicular, and is rough below for the attachment of hgamentous fibres. The internal surface presents an anterior and a posterior articular facet, separated by a rough depression : the anterior, sometimes divided, articulates with the outer side of the base of the second metatarsal bone ; the posterior skirts the posterior border, and articulates with the middle cuneiform ; the rough depression gives attachment to an interosseous ligament. The ]?IG. 410.—The left external cuneiform, a. Postero-internal view. B. Antero-external view. For ith metatarsal For cuboid external surface also presents two articular facets, separated by a rough non-articular surface ; the anterior facet, situated at the superior angle of the bone, is smaU and semi-oval in shape, and articulates with the inner side of the base of the fourth metatarsal bone ; the posterior and larger one is triancrular or oval, and articulates with the cuboid; the rough non-articular surface serves for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. The three tacets for articulation with the three metatarsal bones are continuous ^vlth one another; those for articulation mth the middle cuneiform and navicuar are also continuous, but that for articulation mth the cuboid is usually separate. The superior or dorsal surface is of an oblong form its postero- external angle being prolonged backwards. The ^nter^or "'l"/""^! J a rounded margin, and serves for the attachment of part of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, part of the Flexor brevis hallucis, and ligaments Articulations.—The external cuneiform articulates with six bones the naM cular, middle cuneiform, cuboid, and second, third, and fourth metatarsals. The Metatarsus The Metatarsus consists of five bones which are numbered from withm outwardrfossa nietatarsalia I.-V.) ; each presents for examination a shaft and two extremities. Common Characters of the Metatarsal Bones The sJuift (corpus) is prismoid in form tapers gradually from the tarsal to the phalangeal extremityf and is curved longitudmaUy, ^e cm^^ below, slightly convex above. The posterior ftrcvn^, °,L^"4rsWAe wedge-shaped: articulating by its terminal surface ^ff and by its lateral surfaces mth the contiguous metatarsal bones . its dorsal and