252 OSTEOLOGY The anterior border is thin, irregular, and presents, opposite the inferior turbinated crest, a pointed, projecting lamina, the maxillary process, wliich is directed forwards, and closes in the lower and back part of the opening of tiie antrum of Highmore. The posterior border (fig. 323) presents a deep gi-oove, tlie edges of which are serrated for articulation with the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid. This border is continuous above with the sphenoidal process ; below it expands into tlie pjTamidal process or tuberosity. Tlie superior border supports the orbital process in front and the sphenoidal process behind. These processes are separated by the spheno-palatine notch (incisura sphenopalatina), which is converted into the spheno-palatine foramen by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid. In the articulated skull this foramen leads from the spheno-maxillary fossa into the posterior part of the superior meatus of the nose, and transmits the spheno-palatine vessels and the superior nasal and naso-palatine nerves. The inferior border is fused with the outer edge of the horizontal plate, and immediately in front of the tuberosity is grooved by the lower end of the posterior palatine canal. The tuberosity or processus pyramidalis projects backwards and out- wards from the junction of the horizontal and vertical plates, and is received into the angular interval between the lower extremities of the pterygoid plates. On its posterior surface is a median, grooved, triangular area, limited on either side by a rough articular furrow. The furrows articulate with the pterj^goid plates, while the grooved intermediate area completes the lower part of the pterygoid fossa and gives origin to a few fibres of the Internal pterygoid. The anterior part of the outer surface is rough, for articulation with the tuberositj'' of the maxilla ; its posterior part consists of a smooth triangular area wliich appears, in the articulated skuU, between the tuberosity of the maxilla and the lower part of the external pterygoid plate, and completes the lower part of the zygomatic fossa. The base of the tuberosity presents, close to its union with the horizontal plate, the apertures of the posterior and accessory palatine canals (foramina palatina minora) for the transmission of the posterior and external palatine nerves. The orbital process (processus orbitalis) is placed on a higher level than the sphenoidal, and is directed upwards and outwards from the front part of the vertical plate, to which it is connected by a constricted neck. It presents five surfaces, which enclose an air-ceU. Of these surfaces, three are articular and two non-articular. The articular surfaces are : (1) the anterior or maxillary, directed forwards, outwards, and dowTiwards, of an oblong form, and rough for articulation with the maxilla; (2) the posterior or sphenoidal, directed backwards, upwards, and inwards ; it presents the opening of the au'-cell, which usually communicates with the sphenoidal sinus ; the margins of the opening are serrated for articulation with the vertical part of the sphenoidal turbinated bone ; (3) the internal or ethmoidal, directed inwards, upwards, and forwards, articulates with the lateral mass of the ethmoid. In some cases, the cellular cavity above mentioned opens on this surface of the bone ; it then communicates with the posterior ethmoidal cells. More rarely it opens on both surfaces, and then communicates with the posterior ethmoidal cells and the sphenoidal sinus. The non-articular surfaces are : (1) the superior or orbital, directed upwards and outwards, is triangular in shape, and forms the back part of the floor of the orbit; and (2) the external or zygomatic, of an oblong forni, is directed outwards and downwards towards the sjDheno-maxillarj'- fossa ; it is separated from the orbital surface by a rounded border, which enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The sphenoidal process (processus sphenoidalis) is a thin, compressed plate, much smaller than the orbital, and directed upw ards and inwards. It presents three surfaces and two borders. The superior surface articulates w ith the root of the pterygoid process and the under surface of the sphenoidal turbinated bone, its inner border reaching as far as the ala of the vomer ; it presents a groove wiiich contributes to the formation of the pterygo-palatine canal. The internal surface is concave, and forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The external surface is divided into an articular and a non- articular portion : the former is rough, for articulation with the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid; the latter is smooth,