1055 THE EAR Tlie lamina spiralis ossea (fig. 872) consists of two plates of bone extending outwards ; between tliese are the canals for tlie transmission of the filaments of the auditory nerve. On the upper plate of that part of the osseous spiral lamma which is outside Reissner's membrane the periosteum is thickened to form the limbus lamince spiralis, and this terminates externally in a concavity, the sulcus spiralis internus, whicli presents, on section, the form of the letter C; the upper part of the letter, formed by the overhanging extremity of the limbus, is named the lahium veslibulare ; the lower part, prolonged and tapering, is called the lahium tympanicum, and is perforated by numerous foramina [foramina nervosa) for the passage of the cochlear nerves. Exter- nall3^ the labium tympanicum is continuous A\ith the membrana basilaris. The upper surface of the labium vestibulare is intersected at right angles by a number of furro\\s, betw een -^^hich are numerous elevations ; these present the appearance of teeth along the free surface and margin of the labium, and have been named by Buschke the auditory teeth. The limbus is covered by a layer of what appears to be squamous epithehum, but tlie deejaer parts of the cells with their contained nuclei occupy the intervals betAveen the Fig. 872.—Limbus laminss spiralis and membrana basilaris. (Schematic.) (Testut.) 1, 1'. Upper and lower lamcU.'E o£ the laniina spiralis ossea. 2. Liinbus lamiiuc spiralis, with n, the teeth of the flist row ; 6', the auditor}^ teeth of the other rows ; c, c\ the interdental ji^rooves and the cells which are lodged in tbem. 3. Sulcus spiralis internus, with 3', its labium vestibulare, and 3*, itJ5 labium tympanicum. -1. Foramina nervosa, giving passage to the nerves from the ganglion spirale or ganglion of Corti. 5. Yas spirale. G. Zona arcuatjv, and (i', zona pectinata of the basilar membrane, with c, its hyaline layer, fi, its connective-tissue layer. 7. Arch of Corti, with 7', its inner rod, and 7", its outer rod. 8. Feet of tlie internal rods, from which the cells are removed. 9. Feet o£ the external rods. 10. Membrane of Eeissner, at its origin. elevations and betAveen the auditory teeth. This layer is continuous on the one hand with that which fines the sulcus spirafis internus, and on the other with that which covers the under aspect of Reissner's membrane. The basilar membrane may be divided into two areas, inner and outer. The inner is thin, and is named tlic zona arcuata : it supports the organ of C6rti. The outer is thicker and striated, and is termed the zona pectinata. The under surface of the membrane is covered by a layer of vascular connective tissue. One of the vessels in this tissue is someA\'hat larger than the rest, and is named the vas spirale ; it lies below Corti's tunnel. Organ of Corti (organon .spirale).—This organ (figs. 871, 873) is situated upon the inner part of the membrana basilaris, and appears at first sight as a papilla, Avinding spirally throughout tlie whole length of the ductus cochlearis, from which circumstance it has been designated the papilla spiralis. More accurately viewed, it is seen to be composed of a remarkable arrangement of cells, which may be likened to the keyboard of a pianoforte. Of these cells, the central ones are rodhke bodies, and are called the inner and outer rods of Corti. Their bases are expanded and placed on the basilar membrane, at some Uttle distance from each other, while their intermediate portions are