202 OSTEOLOGY that of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures, the lambda ; these points indi- cate respectively the positions of the anterior and posterior fontanelles in the foetal skull. On eitlier side of the sagittal suture are the parietal eminence and parietal foramen—the latter, however, is frequently absent on one or both sides. The skull is often somewhat flattened in the neighbourhood of the parietal foramina, and the term ohelion is applied to that point of the sagittal suture M'hich is on a level with the foramina. In front is the glabella, and on its lateral aspects are the superciliary ridges, and above these the frontal eminences. Immediately above the glabella may be seen the remains of the inter-frontal suture ; in a small percentage of skulls this suture persists and extends along the mesial plane to the bregma. Passing backwards and upwards from the external angular processes of the frontal bone are the temporal lines, which mark the upper limits of the temporal fossaj. The zygomatic arches may or may not be seen projecting beyond the anterior portions of these lines. The Skull from Below (norma basalis) The inferior surface of the base of the skull exclusive of the mandible (fig. 338) is bounded in front by the incisor teeth in the maxHlse ; behind, by the superior curved lines of the occipital; and lateraUj'' by the alveolar arch, the lower border of the malar, the zygoma, and an imaginary line, extending from the zygoma to the mastoid process and extremity of the superior curved line of the occipital. It is formed by the palatal processes of the maxillae and palate bones, the vomer, the pterygoid processes, the under surfaces of the greater wings, spinous processes, and part of the body of the sphenoid, the under surfaces of the squamous, mastoid, and petrous portions of the temporals, and the under surface of the occipital bone. The anterior part or hard palate is raised above the level of the rest of the surface (when the skull is turned over for the purpose of examination), and is bounded in front and laterally by the alveolar arch containing the sixteen teeth of the maxillae. Immediately behind the incisor teeth is the anterior palatine fossa. At the bottom of this fossa four apertures may usually be seen: two placed la^terally, foramina of Stenson, open above, into the floor of the nose, and transmit the anterior branches of the posterior palatine vessels, and two in the median Ime, the foramina of Scarpa, the anterior transmitting the left, and the posterior the right naso-palatine nerve. The vault of the hard palate is concave, imeven, perforated by numerous foramina, marked by depressions for the palatme glands, and traversed by a crucial suture formed by the junction of the four bones of which it is composed. In the young skuU a sutiure may be seen passmg outA^ ards and forwards on either side from the anterior palatine fossa to the interval between the lateral incisor and canine teeth, and marking off the premaxillary portion of the bone. At each posterior angle of the hard palate is the posterior palatine foramen, for the transmission of the posterior palatine vessels and large descending palatine nerve ; and running forwards and inwards from it a groove, for the same vessels and nerve. Behind the posterior palatme foramen is the tuberosity of the palate-bone, perforated by one or more accessory posterior palatine canals, and marked by the commencement of a ridge, which runs transversely inwards, and serves for the attachment of the tendmous expansion of the Tensor palati. Projecting backwards from the centre of the posterior border of the hard palate is the posterior nmal spine for the attachment of the Azygos uvula;. Behind and above the hard palate are the posterior apertures of the nares (choana), nieasurmg about_an mch in their vertical and half an inch in their transverse diameters They are separated from one another by the vomer, and each is bounded above by the body of the sphenoid, below bv the horizontal plate of the palate-bone, and laterally by the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid. At tlie base of the vomer may be seen the expanded alae of this bone, receiymg between them the rostrum of the'sphenoid. Near the lateral margms of the ah-e of the vomer, at the root of the pterygoid processes, are the pierygo-palatinc canals. The pterygoid process, which bounds the posterior nares on either side, presents near its base the pterygoid or Vidian canal, for the Vidian nerve and artery. Each process consists of two'plates, separated behind by the pt^ygoid tossa, which lodges the Internal pterygoid and Tensor palati. The mternal plate is