MYOLOGY 534 the acromion, and the spine of the scapula; below, it is continuous with the deep fascia of the arm. The Deltoid (m. deltoideus) (fig. 517) is a large, thick, triangular muscle, which gives the rounded outline to the shoulder, and has received its name from its resemblance to the Greek letter A inverted. It covers the shoulder-joint in front, behind, and on the outer side. It arises from the anterior border and upper surface of the outer third of the clavicle ; from the outer margin and upper surface of the acromion process, and from the lower lip of the posterior border of the spine of the scapula, as far back as the triangular surface at its mner end. From this extensive origin the fibres converge towards their msertion, the middle passmg vertically, the anterior obliquely backwards and outwards, the posterior obhquely forwards and outwards ; they unite to form a thick tendon, which is inserted into a rough triangular prominence on the middle of the outer side of the shaft of the humerus. At its msertion the muscle gives off an expansion to the deep fascia of the arm. This muscle is remarkably coarse m texture, and the arrangement of its fibres is somewhat peculiar ; the central portion of the muscle—that is to say, the part arismg from the acromion process—consists of oblique fibres; these arise in a bipenni- form manner from the sides of tendinous intersections, generally four m number, which are attached above to the acromion process and pass do^rawards parallel to one another in the substance of the muscle. The oblique fibres thus formed are inserted into similar tendinous intersections, generally three in number, which pass upwards from the insertion of the muscle and alternate with the descendmg septa. The portions of the muscle which arise from the clavicle and spine of the scapula are not arranged m this manner, but pass from thek origin above to be inserted mto the margms of the inferior tendon. Relations.—The Deltoid is in relation by its superficial surface with the integument, the superficial and deep fascia, Platysma, and supra-acromial nerves. Its deep surface is separated from the capsule of the shoulder-joint by a large synovial bursa, and covers the coracoid process, coraco-acromial Ugament, Pectoralis minor, Coraco-brachiahs, botu heads of the Biceps, the tendon of the Pectoralis major, the insertions of the bupra- spinatus. Infraspinatus, and Teres minor, the scapular and external heads ot the Triceps, the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the upper part of the shaft ot the hunierus. Its an^emr Wer is separated at its upper part from the PectoraUs major by a cellular interspace, which lodges the cephaUc vein and humeral branch of the acromio-thoracic artery: lower down the two muscles are in close contact. Its posterior border rests on the Infraspinatus and Triceps muscles. Nerves.—The Deltoid is supphed by the fifth and sixth cervical through the circumflex nerve. , -j ^ • > Actions.—The Deltoid raises the arm dkectly from the side, so as to brmg it at right angles with the trunk. Its anterior fibres, assisted by the Fectoraiis major, draw the arm forwards ; and its posterior fibres, aided by the Teres ma]or and Latisstmus dorsi, draw it backwards. ATyplied Anatomy.—The Deltoid is very liable to atrophy, and in this condition dfe- location of the shoulder-joint is simulated as there is flattening of the ^^"^^^er and^^^^^^^ prominence of the acromion process; the distance ako between ind the head of the bone is increased, and the tips of the fingers can be inserted between them. Atrophy of the Deltoid may be due to disuse, such as foUows chrome arthritis or permanent injury of the shoulder"-joint. It also frequently resu ts from degenerations occ^g in the spinal cord, or injury to the circumflex nerve (' ^^-l^-ljrPf ^ ^^j^f^^ Deltoid and Spinati often escape in myopathic atrophies affeotmg the other muscles ot the upper arm or shoulder in young persons. 4. Anterior Scapular Region Subscapularis. The fascia subscapularis is a thin membrane attached to the entire circumferScf of ?he suLcapula^ fossa, and affording attachment by its mner surface to some of the fibres of the Subscapularis muscle. The Subscapularis (fig. 518) is a large triangular muscle wh.c^^^^^^^ subscapular fossa, and arises from its internal t^^•o-thn•ds and from the lo^er