ANGIOLOGY 662 to the occipito-temporal and the third temporal convolutions ; the calcarine to the cuneate and lingual lobules and the back part of the outer surface of the occipital lobe ; and the farielo-occifilal to the cuncus and the quadrate lobe. 2. The thyroid axis (truncus thyreocervicalis) (fig. 590) is a short thick trunk, which arises from tlie front of the first portion of the subclavian artery, close to the inner border of the Scalenus anticus, and divides almost imme- diately into three branches, the inferior thyroid, suprascapular, and transverse cervical. The inferior thyroid artery (a. thyreoidea inferior) passes upwards, in front of the vertebral artery and Longus colli muscle ; then turns inwards behind tlie carotid sheath and its contents, and also behind the sjTupathetic cord, tfe^jjuidillsi- .^cervical ganglion tesjjing upon the vessel. Eeaching the lower border of the lateral lobe of the tlija-oidglauTit dr^ into two branches, which supply the postero- inferior parts of the gland, and anastomose with the superior thyroid, and with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. The recurrent lar}Tigeal nerve • passes upwards generally behind, but occasionally in front of, the artery. The branches of the inferior thyroid are : Inferior laryngeal. (Esophageal. Tracheal. Ascending cervical. Muscular. The inferior laryngeal branch (a. laryngea inferior) ascends upon the trachea to the back part of the larynx under cover of the Inferior constrictor, in company ^vith the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and supplies the muscles and mucous membrane of this part, anastomosing with the branch from the opposite side, and with the laryngeal branch from the superior thyroid artery. The tracheal branches (rami traeheales) are distributed upon the trachea, anastomosing below with the bronchial arteries. The oesophageal branches (rami oesophagei) supply the oesophagus, and anastomose with the oesophageal branches of the aorta. The ascending cervical (a. cervicaUs ascendens) is a small branch which arises from the inferior thyroid, just where that vessel is passing behind the carotid sheath, and runs up on the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae in the mterval between the Scalenus anticus and Rectus capitis anticus major. It gives to the muscles of the neck branches which anastomose with, branches of the vertebral, and it sends one or two twigs (rami spinales) into the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina to be distributed to the spmal cord and its membranes, and to the bodies of the vertebra', m the same manner as the lateral spmal branches from the vertebral. It anastomoses with the ascending pharyngeal and occipital arteries. The muscular branches supply the depressors of the hyoid bone, the Longus colli, the Scalenus anticus, and the Inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The suprascapular artery (a. transversa scapulffi) (fig. 592) passes at first down- wards and outwards across the Scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve, being covered by the Sterno-mastoid ; it then crosses the subclavian artery and the cords of the brachial plexus, and runs outwards, behind and parallel with the clavicle and Subclavius, and beneath the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, to the superior border of the scapula ; it passes over the transverse ligament of the scapula, which separates it from the suprascapular nerve, and enters the supraspinous fossa In this situation it lies close to the bone, and ramifies between it and the bupra spinatus, to which it supplies branches. It then descends behind the neck ol tli( scapula, through the great scapular notch, to reach the infraspinous fossa, where it anastomoses with the dorsalis scapulae and posterior scapular arteries. Besides distributing branches to the Sterno-mastoid, Subclavius, and neighbouring muscles, it gives off a suprasternal branch, which crosses over the sternal encl ol tiio clavicle to the skin of the upper part of the chest ; and a supra-acromral branch. which pierces the Trapezius and supplies the skin over the acromion, anasto- mosing with the acromio-thoracic artery. As the artery passes over 1:he transverse ligament of the scapula, a branch of it descends into the subscapular fossa ramifus beneath the Subscapularis, and anastomoses with the posterior and ^"Ij^C-^P"^, arteries. It also sends articular branches to the acromio-clavicular and shouldei joints, and a nutrient artery to the clavicle. The transverse cervical artery (a. transversa colli), larger than the sup a scapular, passes transversely outwards, across the upper part of the subclavian e