DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIVER 165 meshes of the ceUular network and ultimately form the venous capillaries of the W By the continued growth and ramification of the hepatic cyhnders the mass of the Uver is gradually formed. The origmal diverticulum from the duodenum forms the common bile-duct, and from this the cystic duct and gall- bladder arise as a hollow evagination. . • „ „f \s the hver undergoes enlargement, both it and the ventral mesogastnum of the fore-gut are gradually differentiated from the septum transversum ; and from the under surface of the latter the Uver projects downwards into the abdominal cavitv By the growth of the Hver the ventral mesogastnum is divided into two Fig. 226.—Pancreatic buds from a hiunan embryo 7-5 mm. long. (Kollmann.) Ventral •pancreas (cranial 2iart) Dorsal j)ancreas Fig. 227.—Pancreas of a human embryo of five weeks. (Kolhuann.) ^Stomoc^j) _puci of SantoriAti I pancreas Bile-duct Ventral pancreas caudal part) Ventral pancreas [caudal part) Duct of Wirsung Bile-duct parts, of which the anterior forms the falciform and coronary ligaments, and the posterior the gastro-hepatio omentum. About the third month the liver almost fills the abdominal cavity, and its left lobe is nearly as large as its right. From this period the relative development of the liver is less active, more especially that of the left lobe, which actually undergoes some degeneration and becomes smaller than the right; but up to the end of'foetal life the liver remains relatively larger than in the adult. The pancreas (figs. 226 to 228).—The pancreas is developed in two parts, a dorsal and a ventral. The former arises as a diverticulum from the dorsal aspect of the duodenum a short distance above the hepatic diverticulum, and, growing upwards and backwards into the dorsal mesogastnum, forms the body and tail of the pancreas. The ventral part appears the form of two diverticula, cranial Fig. 228.—^Pancreas of human embrj'o at end of sixth week. (Kollmann.) in Duct of Santorini Dorsal pancreas and caudal, from the primitive bile-duct; the caudal enlarges to form the head of the pancreas, while the cranial atrophies and disappears. The duct of the dorsal part (duct of Santorini) therefore opens into the duodenum, while that of the ventral part (duct of Wirsung) terminates with the com- mon bile-duct. During the sixth week, in consequence of the rotation of the duo- denum, the two parts of the pancreas meet and fuse, and a communication is estabhshed between their ducts. After this has occurred the terminal part of the duct of Santorini, i.e. the part between the duodenum and the point of meeting of the two ducts, undergoes Httle or no enlargement, while the duct of Wirsung increases in size and forms the main duct of the gland. The opening of the duct of Santorini iuto the duodenum is sometimes obliterated, and even when it remains patent it is probable that the whole of the pancreatic secretion is conveyed through the duct of Wirsung. At first the pancreas is directed upwards and backwards between the two layers of the dorsal mesogastiium which give to it a complete peritoneal invest- ment, and its surfaces look to the right and left. With the change in the position of the stomach the dorsal mesogastrium is drawn downwards and to the left, and Bile-duct Ventral pancreas Duct of Wirsung