536 MYOLOGY surfaoe, to some of the fibres of the muscle. It is thick internally, but thhmer externally under the coraco-acromial ligament. The Supraspinatus occupies the whole of the supraspinous fossa, arising from its internal two-tliirds, and from the strong fascia which covers its surface. The muscular fibres converge to a tendon, which passes across the upper part of the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, to which it is intimately adherent, and is inserted into the highest of the three impressions on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The fascia infraspinata is a dense fibrous membrane, covering in the Infraspinatus muscle and fixed to the circumference of tlie infraspinous fossa ; it affords attachment, by its inner surface, to some fibres of that muscle. It is intimately attached to the deltoid fascia along the overlapping border of the Deltoid muscle. The Infraspinatus is a thick triangular muscle, M'hich occupies the cliief part of the infraspinous fossa, arising by fleshy fibres from its internal two- thirds ; and by tendinous fibres from the ridges on its surface : it also arises from a strong fascia which covers it externally, and separates it from the Teretes major et minor. The fibres converge to a tendon, wliich glides over the external border of the spine of the scapula, and, passing across the posterior part of the capsular ligament of the shouJder-joint, is inserted into the middle impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon of this muscle is sometimes separated from the capsule of the shoulder-joint by a synovial bursa, which may communicate with the joint cavity. The Teres minor is a narrow, elongated muscle, which arises from the dorsal surface of the axillary border of the scapula for the upper two-thirds of its extent, and from two aponeurotic laminae, one of which separates it from the Infraspinatus, the other from the Teres major. Its fibres run obliquely upwards and outwards ; the upper ones terminate in a tendon which is inserted into the lowest of the three impressions on the great tuberosity of the humerus ; the lower fibres are inserted directly into the humerus immediately below this impression. The tendon of this muscle passes across, and is united with, the posterior part of the capsular ligament of the shoulder- joint. The Teres major is a thick but somewhat flattened muscle, and arises from the oval area on the dorsal surface of the inferior angle of the scapula, and from the fibrous septa interposed between it and the Teres minor and Infraspinatus ; the fibres are dii-ected upwards and outwards, and terminate in a flat tendon, about two inches in length, which is inserted into the inner bicipital ridge of the humerus. The tendon, at its insertion into the humerus, lies behind that. of the Latissimus dorsi, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa, the two tendons being, however, united along then: lower borders for a short distance. Herves.—The Supra- and Infra-spiaatus muscles are supphed by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves through the suprascapular nerve ; the Teres minor, by.tk^ fifth cervical, through the circumflex ; and the Teres major, by the fifth and sixth cervical, through the lower subscapular. Actions.—The Supraspinatus assists the Deltoid in raising the arm from the side, and fixes the head of the humerus in the glenoid cavity. The Infraspinatus and Teres minor rotate the head of the humerus outwards : they also assist in carrying the arm backwards. One of the most important uses of these three muscles is the great protection they afford to the shoulder-joint, the bupra- spinatus supporting it above, and preventing displacement of the head ot tlie humerus upwards, while the Infraspinatus and Teres minor protect it behind, and prevent dislocation backwards. The Teres major assists the Latissimus dorsi in drawing the previously raised humerus downwards and backwards, and in rotating it inwards ; when the arm is fixed it may assist the i ectorals and Latissimus dorsi in drawing the trunk forwards. 6. Anterior Htimeral Region (fig. 518) Coraco-brachialis. Biceps. Brachialis anticus. The deep fascia of the arm (fascia brachii)is continuous with that covering the Deltoid and the Pectoralis major, by means of which it is attached. abo\e.