ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1008 Accessory Sinuses .of the Nose (figs. 826, 827, 828) The accessory sinuses or air-cells of the nose are the frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal and maxiUaiy; they vary in size and form in different individuals, and are lined by mucous membrane directly continuous with that of the nasal fossai. The frontal sinuses, situated behind the superciliary ridges, are rarely sym- metrical, and the septum between them frequently deviates to one or other side of the middle Ime. Their average measurements are as follows : height, 1} in. ; breadth, 1 in. ; depth from before backwards, 1 in. Each opens mto the anterior part of the corresponding middle meatus of the nose through the infundibulum which traverses the anterior part of the lateral mass of the ethmoid. Absent at birth, they are generally fairly well-developed between the idnth and twelfth years, but only reach their full size after puberty. The ethmoidal air-cells consist of numerous thin-walled cavities situated in the lateral masses of the ethmoid and completed by the frontal, maxilla, lachrymal, sphenoid, and palate. They lie between the upper parts of the nasal fosste and the orbits, and are separated from these cavities by thin bony laminaj. They are arranged in three groups, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior and middle groups open into the middle meatus of the nose, the former by way of the infundibulum, the latter directly on or above the bulla ethmoidalis. The posterior cells open into the superior meatus under cover of the superior turbinated process; sometimes one or more of them opens into the sphenoidal sinus. The sphenoidal sinuses contained within the body of the sphenoid vary in size and shape; owing to the lateral displacement of the intervening septum they are rarely symmetrical. The following are their average measurements : vertical height I in.; transverse breadth | in.; antero-posterior depth ^ in. 'When exceptionally large they may extend into the roots of the pterygoid processes or greater Ayings, and may invade the basilar process of the occipital. Each sinus communicates wuth the recessus spheno-ethmoidalis by means of an aperture in the upper part of its anterior wall. Their development does not begin mitU about the eighth year. The maxillary sinus or antrum of Highmore, the largest of the accessory sinuses of the nose, is a pyramidal cavity in the body of the maxilla. Its base is formed by the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and its apex extends into the zygo- matic process. Its roof or orbital wall is frequently ridged by the mfra-orbital canal, while its floor is formed by the alveolar process and is usually on a level with the floor of the nose ; projecting into the latter are several conical elevations corresponding with the roots of the first and second molar teeth, and in some cases the floor is perforated by one or more of these roots. The size of the smus vanes in different skulls, and even on the two sides of the same skull. The followiiig measurements are those of an average-sized antrum : vertical height opposite the first molar tooth in. ; transverse breadth 1 in. ; antero-posterior depth IJ m. In the antero-siiperior part of its base is an opening through which it communicates with the lower part of the hiatus semilunaris ; a second orifice is frequently seen in or immediately behuad, the hiatus. The maxillary antrum appears as a shallow groove on the inner surface of the bone about the fourth month of fcetal liie, but does not reach its full size until after the second dentition.* AvvUed ^watomw.—Instances of congenital deformity of the nose are occasionally met with, such as complete absence of the outer nose, an aperture only bemg present : or perfect development on one side, and suppression or malformation on the other Deformities which have been acquired are much more common, such as fl«"<'"">g ot the nose, the result of syphilitic necrosis ; or imperfect development of th%^ones case.; of congenital syphihs ; or a lateral deviation of the nose may r^ult from fracture The skm over the ate and tip of the nose is thick and closely adherent to subjacen parts : inflammation of this part is therefore very painful, on account of the [ensiom it Krgelv supplied with blood, and, the ckculation here being terminal, vascular engorge- meK liaWe^o occur, especially in women at the menopause, and m both sexes rom Srders of digestion, ;xposure to cold, &e. The skm of the nose also ^''^^J^ ^^mber of sebaceous follides.and these, as the result of intemperance, are aI ^o^-;-^ affected and the nose reddened, congested, and irregtdarly swollen. "^"^ ^^j; 'grog-blossom ' is popularly applied. In some of these cases there is enormous hjper trophy of thJskll and subcutineous tissues. Epithelioma and rodent ulcermay_attack * The various measurements of the accessory sinuses of the nose given above are quoted from Aldren Turner's Accessory Sinuses of the Nose.