BONE 29 Fig. 37.—Nucleated bone-cells and their processes, contained in the bone-lacnnfe and their canaliculi respectively. From a section through the vertebra of an adult mouse. (Klein and Noble Smith.) These fibres were first described by Sharpey, and were named by him 'perforating ^'^^'Thcfamn 'fe are situated between the lamellre, and consist of a number of oblong spaces. In an ordinary microscopic section, viewed by transmitted light they appear as dark, oblong," opaque spots, and were formerly beheved to be solid cells. Subsequently, when it was seen that the Haversian canals were channels which lodged the vessels of the part, and the canaliculi minute tubes by which the plasma of the blood circulated through the tissue, the theory was formulated that the lacuna; were hollow spaces filled during hfe with the same fluid, and only Uned (if lined at all) by a dehcate membrane. But this view was eventually proved to be erroneous, for examination of the structure of recent bone led Virchow to beUeve that each lacuna is occupied during hfe by a branched cell, termed a bone-cell or bone-corpuscle, the processes fi'ora which pass down the canali- culi — a view which is now universally accepted (fig. 37). It is by means of these cells that the fluids necessary for nutrition are brought into contact with the ultimate tissue of bone. The canaliculi are exceedingly minute channels, which pass across the lamellae and connect the lacunre with neighbouring lacunro and also with the Haversian canal. From the Haversian canal a number of canalicuU are given off, which radiate from it, and open into the first set of lacuna} between the first and second lamellfe. From these lacuuse a second set of canaliculi is given off, which passes outwards to the next series of lacunoe, and so on until the periphery of the Haversian system is reached ; here the canahculi given off from the last series of lacunte do not communicate with the lacunae of neighbouring Haversian systems, but after passing outwards for a short distance form loops and return to their own lacunas. Thus every part of an Haversian system is suppUed with nutrient fluids derived from the vessels in the Haversian canal and distributed through the canaliculi and lacunre. The bone-cells are contained in the lacunae, which, however, they do not com- pletely fill. They are flattened nucleated branched cells, which are homologous with those of connective tissue; the i branches, especially in young bones, S'lO- 38.-^ection of bone after the removal pass into the canaUcuU from the lacunae. In a longitudinal section (fig. 35) the appearance of concentric rings is replaced by that of lamellae or rows of lacunoe, parallel to the course of the Haversian canals, and these canals appear as half-tubes instead of circu- lar spaces. The tubes are seen to branch and communicate, so that each separate Haversian canal runs only a short distance. In thin plates of bone (as in the walls of the spaces which form the cancellous tissue) the Haversian canals are absent, and the canaliculi open into the spaces of the cancellous tissue (medullary spaces), which thus have the same function as the Haversian canals in the more compact bone. Chemical composition.—Bone consists of an animal and an earthy part intimately combined together. • , , The animal part may be obtained by immersing a bone for a considerable time in dilute mineral acid, after which process the bone comes out exactly the of the earthy matter by the action of acids.