MYOLOGY with the inner part of the Flexor brevis pollicis, and the Adductor obliquus poUiois, into the uhmr side of the base of the first plialanx of tlie tliuinb. Nerves—The Abductor, Oppoiieiis, and outer head of the Flexor brevis poUicis are supplied by the sixth cervical nerve through the median nerve ; the iimci head of the Flexor brevis, and the Adductors, by the eighth cervical through thr ulnar nerve. Actions.—The Abductor pollicis draws the thumb forwards in a plane at right angles to that of the palm of the hand. The Adductores pollicis are the opponents of this muscle, and approximate the thumb to the palm. The Opponens pollicis flexes the metacarpal bone : that is, draws it inwards over the palm and the Flexor brevis pollicis flexes and adducts the proximal phalanx. 12. Ulnar Regicn (fig. 532) Palmaris brevis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Abductor minimi digiti. Opponens minimi digiti. The Palmaris brevis is a thin, quadrilateral muscle, placed beneath the integument of the ulnar side of the hand. It arises by tendinous fasciculi from the annular ligament and palmar fascia ; the fleshy fibres pass in\\'ard.s. to be inserted into the skin on the inner border of the palm of the hand. The Abductor minimi digiti (m. abductor digiti quinti) is .situated on the ulnar border of the palm of the hand. It arises from the pisiform bone and from the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris, and terminates in a flat tendon, which divides into two slips ; one is inserted into the ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger ; the other into the ulnar border of the aponeurosis of the Extensor minimi digiti. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti (m. flexor digiti quinti brevis) lies on tlie same plane as the preceding muscle, on its radial side. It arises from the convex surface of the hook of the unciform bone, and the anterior surface of the amiular ligament, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. It is separated from the Abductor at its origin, by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. This muscle is sometimes wanting ; the Abductor is then, usually, of large size. The Opponens minimi digiti (m. oi^ponens digiti quinti) (fig. 522) is of a triangular form, and placed immediately beneath the precedOng muscles. It arises from the convexity of the hook of the unciform bone, and contiguous portion of the annular hgament ; its fibres pass downwards and uiAAards, tn be inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, along its ulnar margin. Nerves.—All the muscles of this group are supphed by the eighth cerNdcal nerve through the ulnar nerve. Actions.—The Abductor and Flexor brevis minimi digiti abduct the httlo finger from the ring finger and assist in flexing the proximal phalanx. The Opponens minimi digiti draws forwards the fifth metacarpal bone, so as to deepen the hollow of the palm. The Palmaris brevis corrugates the skin on the inner side of the palm of the hand. 13. Middle Palmar Region Lumbricales. Interossei. The Lumbricales (fig. 532) are four small fleshy fascicidi, accessories to the Flexor profundus digitorum. They arise from the tendons of this muscle : the first and second, from the radial side and palmar surface of the tendons of the index and middle fingers respectively ; the third, from the contiguous sides of the tendons of the middle and ring fingers ; and the fourth, from the contiguous sides of the tendons of the ring and little fingers. Each passes to the radial side of the corresponding finger, and opposite the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation is inserted into the tendinous expansion of the Extensor communis digitorum covering the dorsal aspect of the finger. The Interossei (figs. 533, 534) are so named from occupying the intervals between the metacarpal bones, and are divided into two sets, a dorsal and a palmar.