THE CORPORA QUADRIGEMINA • 843 - The mesial fillet (lemniscus medialis) comprises that portion of the fillet 'which commences in the gracile and cuneate nuclei of the opposite side, and I which is joined by Gowers' tract and by fibres from the'termiiial nuclei of ithe sensory nerves of the opposite side, excepting the cochlear division of the ; auditory. In the crus cerebri, a few of its fibres pass upwards in the outer ipart of the pes or crusta, on the dorsal aspect of the cortico-ponture fibres, ! and reach the lenticular nucleus and the island of Reil. The greater part of (the mesial fillet, on the other hand, is prolonged thi-ough the tegmentum, cand most of its fibres end in the thalamus ; probably some are continued I directly through the posterior part of the internal capsule to the cerebral (cortex. From the cells of the thalamus a relay of fibres is prolonged to tthe cerebral cortex. Besides these three tracts, there are the tectospinal tract from the upper cquadi-igeminal body and the rubrospinal tract from the red nucleus ; these tracts ccross the midcUe line and are continued downwards into the spinal cord. The corpora quadrigemina are four rounded eminences which form the cidorsal part of the mid-brain. They are situated above and in front of the valve oof Vieussens and superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and below and behind the I third ventricle and posterior commissure. They are covered by the splenium of I the coi-pus caUosum, and are partly overlapped on either side by the inner angle, nor pulvinar, of the posterior end of the thalamus ; on their lateral aspect,' iiunder cover of the pulvinar, is an oval emmence, named the internal geniculate hbodij. The corpora quadiigemma are aixanged in pairs (upper and lower), and lare separated from one another by a crucial sulcus. The longitudinal part of [this sulcus expands superiorly to form a slight depression which supports the vpmeal body, a cone-like structure which projects backwards from the thalam- •encephalon and partly obscures the upper quadrigemmal bodies. From the dower end of the longitudmal sulcus, a white band, termed the frcenulum veli, ds prolonged downwards to the valve of Vieussens ; on either side of this band the fourth cranial nerve emerges, and passes forwards on the lateral, aspect of Ithe crus to reach the base of the bram. The upper pair (coUiculi superiores) >are larger and darker m colour than the lower, and are oval in shape. The iloioer pair (colliculi inferiores) are hemispherical, and somewhat more pro- iminent than the upper. The upper quadrigemmal bodies are associated with Ithe sense of sight, the lower wdth that of hearing. From the lateral aspect of ■sacli of the four bodies, a white band, termed the brachium, is prolonged upwards land forwards. The superior brachium (brachium quadrigeminum superius) sxtends outwards from the upper quadrigeminal body, and, passing between itne pulvinar and internal geniculate body, is partly continued into an eminence called the external geniculate body, and partly into the outer ^portion of the optic tract. The inferior brachium (brachium quadrigeminum imtenus) passes forwards and upwards from the lower quadrigeminal body and imsappears under cover of the internal geniculate body. In close relationship with the corpora quadrigemina are the superior 'feauncles of the cerebellum, which emerge from the upper and mesial part of the l^erebellar hemispheres. They run upwards and forwards, and, passing under Itne corpora quadrigemina, enter the tegmenta as ah-eady described (page 830). hnri • 5^ ?^ corpora quadrigemina.—The lower quadrigemmal ^oouy consists of a compact nucleus of grey matter containing large and smaU Jimiipolar nerve-ceUs, and more or less completely surrounded by white fibres •lerived from the lateral fillet. Most of these fibres end m the grey nucleus of ■.r>t ' middle line and terminate in that of the opposite side From the ceUs of the grey nucleus, fibres are prolonged through i^ne interior brachium into the tegmentum of the crus cerebri, and are carried ■L • ?P'^i° thalamus and the cortex of the temporal lobe ; other fibres cross 'ae middle line and end in the opposite quadrigemmal body. 'Prm.!? li'x^^Z quadrigeminal body is covered by a thin stratum of white fibres, *rmed the stratttm zonule, the majority of whose fibres are derived from the '■^^Z ■^^'^°ath this is the siraiiim, cinereum, a layer of grey matter which tseniDies a cap : it is semilunar in shape, thicker in the centre than at the largins and consists of numerous multipolar nerve-cells, for the most part trn^. ^"^bedded in a fine network of nerve-fibres. Still deeper is the iraium opticum, which contains large multipolar nerve-ceUs, separated by