SPLANCHNOLOGY 1242 delicate reticulated tissue in the interior of the areolae, so that each areola may be con- sidered to be divided into a number of smaller spaces by the junction of the processes of the branching corpuscles. These secondary spaces are full of Ijlood, in which, however, the white corpuscles are found to be in larger proportion than they are in ordinary blood! Large rounded cells, termed splenic cells, are also seen ; these are capable of amoeboid movement, and often contain pigment and red blood-corpuscles in theu- interior. The sustentacular cells are either small uni-nucleated, or large multi-nucleated cells ; they do not stain deeply with carmine, and in this respect differ from the cells of the Malpighian bodies, but like these cells they exliibit amoeboid movements. In many of them may be seen deep red or reddish-yellow granules of various sizes, also blood-corpuscles in all stages of disintegration. Klein has pointed out that sometimes these cells, in the young spleen, contain proliferating nuclei; that is to say, the nucleus is of large size, and presents a number of knob-hke projections, as if small nuclei were budding from it by a process of gemmation. This observation is of importance, as it may explain one possible source of the colourless blood-corpuscles. Blood-vessels of the spleen.-—The splenic artery is remarkable for its large size in proportion to the size of the organ, and also for its tortuous course. It divides into six or more branches, which enter the hilus of the spleen and ramify throughout its substance (fig. 1027), receiving sheaths from an involution of the external fibrous tissue. Sunilar sheaths also invest the nerves and veins. Fig. 1026.—Transverse section of the spleen, showing the trabecular tissue and the splenic vein and its tributaries. Each branch runs in the transverse axis of the organ, from wdthin outwards, diminisliing in size during its transit, and giving off in its passage smaller branches, some of which pass to the anterior, others to the posterior part. These ultimately leave the trabecular sheaths, and terminate in the proper substance of the spleen in small tufts or pencils of minute arterioles, which open into the interstices of the reticulum formed by the branched susten- tacular cells. Each of the larger branches of the artery supplies chiefly that region of the organ in which the branch ramifies, having no anastomosis with the majority of the other branches. The arterioles, supported by the minute trabeculas, traverse the pulp in all directions in bundles of straight vessels. Their external coats, on leaving the trabecular sheaths, consi.st of ordinary connective tissue, but they gradually undergo a transformation, become much thickened, and converted into adenoid material.* This change is elTected by the conversion of the connective tissue into adenoid tissue ; the bundles of connective ti.ssue becoming looser and their fibrils more delicate, and containing in their interstices an abundance of lymph-corpuscles (W. Miiller). The altered coat of the arterioles, consisting of adenoid tissue, presents here a^nd there thickenings of a spheroidal shape, the Malpighian bodies of the spleen. These bodies vary * According to Klein, it is the sheath of the small vessel which undergoes this trans- formation, and forms a 'solid mass of adenoid tissue which surrounds the vessel like a cylindrical sheath.'—Atlas of Histology, p. 424.