391 MECHANISM OF THORAX Mechanism of the Thobax Each rib possesses its own range and variety of movements, but the move- ments of all are combined in the respiratory excursions of the thorax. Each rib may be regarded as . ^ , • I lever the fulcrum of Fig. 439.—Lateral view of first and seventh ribs in position, citnntpri iin- showing the movements of the sternum and ribs in, A, ordi- nStely outside 2e -ry expix-ation; B, quiet inspiration ; c, forced inspiration, costo-transverse articu- lation, so that when the shaft of the rib is ele- vated the neck is de- :iressed and vice versa; from the disproportion ill length of the arms of I he lever a sUght move- ment at the vertebral l ud of the rib is greatly magnified at the an- terior extremity. The anterior ends of the ribs Ue on a lower plane than the pos- terior; when therefore the rib-shaft is elevated the anterior extremity is thrust also forwards. Again, the middle of the shaft lies in a plane below that pass- j i i- i ing through the two extremities, so that when the shaft is elevated relatively to its ends it is at the same time carried outwards from the median plane of the thorax. Further, each rib forms Fig. 440.—Diagram shomng the axes of move- the segment of a curve which is ment (a b and c d) of a vertebro-sternal rib. greater than that of the rib imme- The inten-upted lines indicate the position of diately above, and therefore the the rib in inspiration. elevation of a rib increases the transverse diameter of the thorax in the plane to which it is raised. The modifications of the rib move- ments at their vertebral ends have already been described (page 387). Further modifications result from the attachments of their anterior extremities, and it is convenient therefore to consider separately the movements of the ribs of the three groups—vertebro-sternal, vertebro- chondral, and vertebral. Vertebro-sternal ribs (figs. 4:39, 440)—The first rib differs from the others of this group in that its attachment to the sternum is a rigid one; this is counterbalanced to some extent by the fact that its head possesses no interarticular ligament, and is therefore more movable. The first pair of ribs with the manubrium sterni move as a single piece, the anterior portion being elevated by rotatory move- ments at the vertebral extremities. In normal quiet respiration the movement of this arc is practically nil; when it does occur the anterior part is raised and carried