CONNECTIVE TISSUES 19 the white fibres being composed of the albuminoid collagen, which is often regarded as the anhydride of gelatin. _ Yellow elastic tissue.—In certain parts of the body a tissue is found which when viewed in mass is of a yellowish colour, and is possessed of great elasticity, so that it is capable of considerable extension, and when the extending force is withdrawn returns at once to its original condition. This is yellow elastic tissue, which may be regarded as a cormective tissue in which the yellow elastic fibres have developed to the practical exclusion of the other elements. It is found in the ligamenta subflava, in the vocal cords, in the longitudinal coats of the trachea and bronchi, in the inner coats of the blood-vessels, especially the larger arteries, and to a very considerable extent in the thyro-hyoid, crico-thyroid, and stylo-hyoid U^aments. It is also found in the ligamentum nuchas of the lower animals (fig. 24). In some parts where the fibres are broad and large and the network close, the tissue presents the appearance of a membrane, with gaps or perforations Fig. 24.—Yellow elastic tissue. High power. Fig. 23. — Tendon of mouse's taU, stained with logwood, showing chains of cells between the tendon-bundles. (From Quain's ' Anatomy.' E. A. Schafer.) IT corresponding to the intervening spaces. This is to be found in the inner coats of the arteries, and to it the name oi J'enestraled membrane has been given by Henle. The yellow elastic fibres remain unaltered by acetic acid. Chemically they are composed of the albuminoid body elasiin. Mucous tissue exists chiefly in the ' jelly of Wharton,' which forms the bulk of the umbilical cord, but is also found in other situations in the fojtus, chiefly as a stage in the development of connective tissue. It consists of a matrix, largely made up of mucin, in which are nucleated cells with branching and anastomosing processes (fig. 2.5). Few fibres are seen in typical mucous tissue, though at birth the umbilical cord shows a considerable development of fibres. In the adult the vitreous humour of the eye is a persistent form of mucous tissue, in which there are no fibres, and from which the cells have disappeared, leaving only the mucinous ground substance. Retiform or reticular tissue (fig. 26) is found extensively in many parts of the body, constituting the framework of some organs and entering into the c 2