1158 SPLANCHNOLOGY ascertaining the presence of deep-seated collections of pus. Finally, it will be noted that the finger is fii-mly gripped by tlie Sphincter for about an inch up the bowel. Applied Anatomy.—The small intestines are much exposed to injury, but, in con- sequence of their elasticity and the ease with which one coil glides over another, they are not so frequently ruptured as would otherwise be the case. Any jjart of the small intestine may be ruptured, but probably the most common situation is the transverse duodenum, on account of its being more fixed than other portions of the bowel, and because it is situated in front of the bodies of the vertebrae, so that if this portion of the intestine is struck by a sharp blow, as from the kick of a horse, it is unable to gUde out of the way, but is compressed against the bone and so lacerated. Wounds of the intestine sometimes OCCIU-. If the wound is a small puncture, under, it is said, three lines in length, no extravasa- tion of the contents of the bowel takes place; the mucous membrane becomes everted and plugs the httle opening. The small intestine, and most frequently the ileimi, may become strangulated by internal bands, or through apertures, normal or abnormal. The bands may be formed in several different ways: they may be old peritoneal adhesions from previous attacks of peritonitis ; or an adherent omentum from the same cause; or the band may be formed by Meckel's diverticulum, which has contracted adhesions at its distal extremity; or it may be the result of the abnormal attachment of some normal structure, as the adhesion of two appendices epiploicse, or an adherent vermiform appendix or Fallopian tube. Intussusception, most commonly an invagination of the small intestine into the large, may take place ; it may attain great size, and it is not uncommon in these cases to find the ileo-csecal valve projecting from the anus. Strictiu-e, the impaction of foreign bodies, and twisting of the gut {volvulus) may also lead to intestinal obstruction. Eesection of a portion of the intestine may be required in cases of gangrene ; for the removal of new growth in the bowel; in deahng with artificial anus ; and in cases of ruptm-e. The operation is termed entereciomy, and is performed as follows : the abdomen having been opened and the amount of bowel requiring removal having been determined upon, the intestine must be clamped on either side of this portion in order to prevent the escape of any of its contents during the operation. The portion of the bowel is then separated above and below by means of scissors. If the portion resected is small, it may be simply removed from the mesentery at its attachment, and the bleeding vessels tied; but if it be large it will be necessary to take away a triangular piece of the mesentery, and, having secmred the vessels, suture the cut edges of this structmre together. In doing this, care must be taken not to leave any intestine projecting beyond the hne of the section of mesentery, as gangrene is very hkely to occur in the projecting part if this is done. ITie surgeon then proceeds to unite the cut ends of the bowel together by what is termed end-to- end anastomosis. There are many ways of doing this, which may be divided into two classes, one where the anastomosis is made by means of some mechanical apphance, such as Murphy's button, or one of the fonns of decalcified bone bobbin ; and the other, where the operation is performed by suturing the ends of the bowel in such a manner that the peritoneum covering the two divided ends is brought into contact, so that speedy umon may ensue. The vermiform appendix is very liable to become inflamed, because it contains a relatively large amount of lymphoid tissue which is prone to bacterial infection. In many cases the inflammation is set up by the unpaction in it of a solid mass of faces or a foreign body, or by the inspissation of its mucous secretion in catarrhal conditions. The inflamma- tion may result in ulceration and perforation, or if very acute in gangrene of the appendix. These conditions generally require immediate operative interference, and in chrome cases with recurring attacks of inflammation it is generally advisable to remove this diverticulum of the bowel. In incising the abdominal wall for this operation, the muscles should be spht in the direction of their fibres rather than cut across in order to prevent subsequent weakening of the abdominal parietes and the occiu-rence of a ventral herma. After the appendix has been removed it is better to suture the planes of the abdominal wall IrTexternal hernia the ileum is the portion of bowel most frequently herniated. When a part of the large intestine is involved it is usually the c.TCum, and this may occur even on the left side. In some few cases the vermiform appendix has been the part miphcated in straneulated hernia. , ^ , Chronic ulcer ot the duodenum is sometimes met with, probably produced by tJie same causes as chronic ulcer of the stomach. It may perforate and set up a rapid y tata peritonitis, or it may open into one of the large duodenal vessels and cause death from haemorrhage. An acute ulcer sometimes, but rarely, follows extensive burns ot the slan. The calibre of the large intestine gradually diminishes from the wecum, the greatest diameter of any part of the bo^^•el, to the point of junction of fj' 1'^ 1";= colon with the rectum. At or a little below this point stricture most ^^^0"'^. and diminishes in frequency as one proceeds upwards to the cacum J^^^"^/^^^^^^^ by some obstiiiction low do^^•n, the outline of the large intestme can be def"ied t^roug^^ nearly the whole of its course-all, in fact, except the hepatic and ^P'^ ^^^^^ ;;;rof are more deeply placed ; the distension is most obvious in the flanks on the front « the abdomen just above the umbilicus. The crocum, however, is the portion of the boA^ei