SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL REGION 473 ^Stonio-raastoid it divides to enclose tlie muscle, and at the anterior margin ,aiSXms a single lameUa, which roofs in the anterior triangle of the neck and reaches forvvards to the middle line, to become f .^^^"^^^^^J ?oirespoXg part from the opposite side of the neck. In the middle line of : Ee SS^tTslftached to the sj^mphysis menti and body of the hyoid bone 4bove, the fascia is attached to the superior curved line o the occipital, to t the mastoid process of the temporal, and to the whole length of the body ot the mandible Opposite the angle of the mandible the fascia is very strong, and Ss the aSterior edge of the Sterno-mastoid firmly to that bone Between the mandible and the mastoid process it ensheathes the parotid gland—the layer wliich covers the gland extending upwards under the name ."of the parotid fascia to be fixed to the zygomatic arch, /^om the layer . which passes under the parotid a strong band extends upwards to the styloid 1 process forming the stylo-mandibular ligament. Three other bands may be ' defined: the spheno-mandibular, the ptenjgo-mandibular and the pterygo-spmous i Uqaments. The pten/go-spinous ligament is a membranous band which stretcnes I across from the upper half of the posterior fi-ee border of the external ■ pterycroid plate to the spinous process of the sphenoid. It occasionally ossities, ; and produces between its upper border and the base of the skull, a^ven- 1 titious foramen which transmits the branches of the third division ot the httn ! nerve to the muscles of mastication. , • i j 4.1 Below, the fascia is attached to the acromion process, the clavicle, and the : manubrium sterni. Some little distance above the last, however, it splits 1 into two layers, superficial and deep. The former is attached to the anterior border of the manubrium, the latter to its posterior border and to the mter- . clavicular ligament. Between these two layers is a slit-like mterval, the supra- . sternal space, or space of Burns. It contains a small quantity of areolar tissue, : and sometimes a lymphatic gland, the lower portions of the anterior jugular vems and then- transverse connecting branch, and also the sternal heads of the Sterno-mastoid muscles. -j • ct The fascia which Imes the deep surface of the Sterno-mastoid gives ott the follomng important processes. (1) A process envelops the tendon of the Omo-hyoid, and binds it down to the sternum and first costal cartilage. (2) A strong sheath, the carotid sheath, encloses the carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve. (3) The prevertebral fascia extends inwards behind the carotid vessels, where it assists in forming then- sheath, and passes in front of the prevertebral muscles. It forms the posterior limit of a fibrous compartment, which contains the larynx and trachea, the thyroid gland, and the pharynx and oesophagus. The prevertebral fascia is fixed above to the base of the skull, while below it is contmued into the thorax m front of the Longus colli muscles. Parallel to the carotid sheath and along its inner aspect the prevertebral fascia gives off a thin lamina, the bucco- pharyngeal fascia, which closely invests the Constrictor muscles of the pharynx, and is continued forward from the Superior constrictor on to the Buccinator. It is attached to the prevertebral layer by loose connective tissue only, and thus an easily distended space, the retro-pharyngeal space, is found between them. This space is limited above by the base of the skull, while below it extends behind the oesophagus into the thorax, where it is continued into the posterior mediastinum. The prevertebral fascia is prolonged downward.s and outwards behind the carotid vessels and in front of the Scaleni, and forms a sheath for the brachial nerves and subclavian vessels in the pos- terior triangle of the neck; it is continued under the clavicle as the axillary sheath and is attached to the deep surface of the costo-coracoid membrane. Immediately above and behind the clavicle an areolar space exists between the investing layer and the sheath of the subclavian vessels, and in its upper portion are found the lower part of the external jugular vein, the descending clavicular nerves, the suprascapular and transversalis colli vessels, and the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid muscle. Tliis space is limited below by the fusion of the costo-coracoid membrane with the anterior wall of the axillary sheath. (4) The pretracheal fascia extends inwards in front of the carotid vessels, and assists in forming the carotid sheath. It is further continued behind the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, and, after enveloping the thyroid body, Ls prolonged in front of the trachea to meet the corresponding