375 ARTICULATIONS OF VERTEBRAL COLUMN laminar arrangement belongs to about the outer half of each disc. The pulpy substance presents no concentric arrangement, and consists of a fine fibrous matrix, containing angular cells united to form a reticular structure. Applied Anatomy.—AVhen an aneurysm presses on the vertebral column, the vertebral bodies are often deeply eroded by the tumoiu*, while the intervertebral discs remain intact. The discs are the first to be destroyed, however, in tuberculosis of the spine, where, as not infrequently happens, the disease begins in the discs, and spreads thence to the bodies of the two adjoining vertebrae simultaneously. 2. Intebnbural Abtictjlations The interneui'al articulations, or articulations between the articular pro- cesses of the vertebrae, belong to the arthrodial variety of movable joints. The processes are connected together by capsular ligaments, which are lined by sjmovial membranes ; but in addition to these are a number of accessory ligaments, which connect together the laminae, spinous and transverse processes. The ligaments of the interneural articulations are : Capsular. Ligamenta subflava. Intertransverse. Supraspinous. Interspinous. Fig. 426.—Neui-al arches of three thoracic vertebras viewed fi-om the front. The Capsular Ligaments (capsulse articulares) (fig. 424) are thin and loose ligamentous sacs, attached to the contiguous margins of the articular processes of adjacent vertebrae. Each ligament is defective internally, where the sac is completed by the ligamentum subflavum. They are longer and looser in the cervical than in the thoracic or lumbar regions. The capsular ligaments are lined on their inner sm-faces by synovial membrane. The Ligamenta Subflava (ligg. flava) (fig. 426) connect the laminae of adjacent vertebrae, from the axis to the first segment of the sacrum. They are best seen when viewed from the iaterior of the spinal canal : when looked at from the outer surface they appear short, being overlapped by the laminae. Each ligament con- sists of two lateral portions, which commence one on either side at the roots of the articular processes, and extend back- wards to the point where the laminae converge to form the spinous process ; the posterior margins of the two portions are in contact and to a certain extent united, slight intervals being left for the passage of small vessels. Each ligament consists of yellow elastic tissue, the fibres of which, almost perpendicular in dii-ection, are attached to the anterior surface of the lamina above, some dis- tance from its inferior margin, and to the posterior surface and upper margin of the lamma below. In the cervical region the ligaments are thin, but very broad and long ; they become thicker in the thoracic region, and in the lumbar region acquire very considerable thick- ness. Their highly elastic property serves to preserve the upright posture, and to assist the vertebral column in resuming it, after flexion. These ligaments do not exist between the occiput and atlas, or between the atlas and axis. The Supraspinous Ligament (lig. supraspinale) (fig. 424) is a strong fibrous cord, which connects together the apices of the spinous processes Pedicle {cut)