900 NEUROLOGY cases be traced into the substance of the brain to a special centre of grey matter, termed the nucleus. The motor or efferent cranial nerves arise from erouns of nerve-cells situated within the brain, and such groups of cells constitute their nuclei of origin. The sensory or afferent cranial nerves arise outside the brain from groups of nerve-cells or gangha derived from tlie neural crest or ganglion ridge, and situated on the trunks of the ner^^es ; these gan-Ua must therefore be looked upon as tlieir nuclei of origin. The centi al e ° processes of these ganglion-cells Fia, 761.—Nerves of septum of nose. Right side. grow into the brain, and there end by arborising around the cells of certain nuclei or collections of nerve-cells, wliich are termed their nuclei of termination. Tlie nuclei of origin of the motor nerves and the nuclei of termination of the sensory nerves are brought into relationship with tlie cerebral cortex, the former through the geniculate bundle of the internal capsule, the latter through the fillet. The geniculate fibres arise from the cells of the motor area of the cortex, and, after crossing the middle line, end by arborising around the cells of the nuclei of origin of the motor nerves. On the other hand, fibres arise from the cells of the nuclei of termination of the sensory nerves, and after crossing the opposite side, join the fillet, and thus connect these nuclei, directly or indirectly, with the cerebra cortex. Is abeady stated in the chapter on Embryology (page 127), with the exception of the first and second, are developed in a similai manner to the sjDinal nerves. First Nerve (fig. 761) The Olfactory nerves (nn. olfactoru) are the nerves of smell, and are distriMtS to the^mucous membrane of the olfactory region of the nose : this Fig. 762.—Plan of olfactory neurons. Mitral cells ■Fibres of olfactory tract Olfactory cell Olfactory epithelium region comprises the superior turbinated process JJ^^^^ti^Jc^^^^^^ colresnonding part of the nasal septum. The nerves originate tro"i tm? c ^rS'^rSes of the olfactor^ cells of the 1-^^-^'", rcoll^