ULNAR ARTERY 681 the tuberosity of the radius, iincl. passing backwards to the upper border of the interosseous membrane, divides into two branches, the anterior and ■posterior interosseous arteries. The anterior interosseous (a. iuterossea volaris) (fig. 599) passes down tlie forearm on the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane. It is accornpanied by the interosseous branch of the median nerve, and overLappcd by the contiguous margins of the Flexor profundus digitorum and Flexor longus pollicis, giving oft" in this situation muscular branches, and the nutrient arteries of the radius and ulna. At the upper border of the Pronator quadratus, a branch descends beneath that muscle, to anastomose in front of the carpus with the anterior carpal arch. The continuation of the artery passes behind the Pronator quadratus, and, piercing the interosseous membrane, reaches the back of the forearm, and anastomoses vnth the posterior interosseous artery (fig. 600). It then descends, in company mth the terminal portion of the posterior interosseous nerve, to the back of the wrist to join the posterior carpal arch. The anterior interosseous gives off a long, slender branch, the comes nervi mediani (a. mediana), which accompanies the median nerve, and gives offsets to its substance ; this artery is sometimes much enlarged, and runs with the nerve into the palm of the hand. The posterior interosseous (a. interossea dorsalis) passes backwards through the interval between the oblique ligament and the upper border of the interosseous membrane. It appears between the contiguous borders of the Supinator brevis and the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and runs down the back of the forearm between the superficial and deep layers of muscles, to both of which it distributes branches (fig. 600). Where it lies upon the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the Extensor brevis pollicis, it is accompanied by the posterior interosseous nerve. At the lower part of the forearm it anastomoses with the termination of the anterior interosseous artery, and with the posterior carpal arch. It gives off, near its origin, the interosseous recurrent branch (a. interossea recurrens), which ascends to the interval between the external epicondyle and olecranon, on or through the fibres of the Supinator brevis, but beneath the Aiiconeus, and anastomoses with the posterior branch of the superior profimda, and with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anastomotica magna. The muscular branches are distributed to the muscles along the ulnar side of the forearm. The anterior ulnar carpal (ramus carpeus volaris) is a small vessel which crosses the front of the carpus beneath the tendons of the Flexor profundus, and anastomoses with a corresponding branch of the radial artery. The posterior ulnar carpal (ramus carpeus dorsalis) arises immediately above the pisiform bone, and ^^^nds backwards beneath the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; it passes across the dorsal surface of the carpus beneath the Extensor tendons, to anastomose with a corresponding branch of the radial artery, and complete the posterior carpal arch. Immediately after its origin, it gives off a small branch, which runs along the ulnar side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and supplies the ulnar side of the dorsal surface of the little finger. The profunda branch (ramus volaris profundus) (fig. 599) passes between the Abductor mininu digiti and Flexor brevis minimi digiti, near their origins ; it anastomoses with the termination of the radial artery, and completes the deep palmar arch. The superficial palmar arch (arcus volaris superficialis) (fig. 598) is formed by the ulnar artery in the hand, and is usually completed on the outer side by a branch from the radialis indicis, but sometimes by the superficialis voliB or by a branch from the princeps polUcis of the radial artery. The arch passes across the palm, describing a curve, with its convexity downwards. Relations.—The superficial palmar arch is covered by the skin, the Palmaris brevis and the palmar fascia. It lies upon the annular ligament, the Flexor brevis and Opponens minimi digiti, the tendons of the Flexor sublimis digitorum, the Lumbrical muscles, and the divisions of the median and ulnar nerves. Four digital arteries (aa. digitales volares communes) (fig. 598) are given off from the convexity of this arch. The innermost accompanies the inner digital branch of the ulnar nerve, and runs along the ulnar side of the little finger ; it is joined by a twig from the deep palmar arch or from the innermost palmar interosseous artery. The three outer run downwards in front of the three inner mterosseous spaces, superficial to the corresponding nerves and Lumbrical muscles.