448 SYNDESMOLOGY The Plantar Ligaments liave a similar arrangement to those on tlu- dorsum. They are strengthened by processes given off by the tendon of tlic Tibialis posticus. The Synovial Membrane of these joints is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. Movements.—Mere ghding movements are permitted between the navicular and cmieiform bones. 6. The Articulation of the Navicular with the Cuboid (Articulatio Cuboideonaaicularis) The navicular bone is connected with the cuboid by : Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal Ligament extends obliquely forwards and outwards from the navicular to the cuboid bone. The Plantar Ligament passes nearly transverselj'^ between these two bones. The Interosseous Ligament consists of strong transverse fibres, and connects the rough non-articular portions of the lateral surfaces of the two bones. The Synovial Membrane of this joint is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. Movements.—The movements permitted between the navicular and cuboid bones are limited to a shght ghding upon each other. 7. The Articulation of the Cuneiform Bones with each other (Articulationes Intercuneiformes) These bones are connected together hy: Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal Ligaments consist of two transverse bands: one connecting the internal with the middle cuneiform, and the other connecting the middle with the external cuneiform. The Plantar Ligaments have a similar arrangement to those on the dorsum. They are strengthened by processes given oflE from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. The Interosseous Ligaments consist of strong transverse fibres which pass between the rough non-articular portions of the lateral surfaces of the adjacent cuneiforin bones. The Synovial Membrane of these joints is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. Movements.—The movements permitted between the cuneiform bones are hmited to a sUght ghding upon each other. 8. The Articulation of the External Cuneiform Bone with the Cuboid (Articulatio Cuneocuboidea) These bones are connected together by: Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous ligaments. Tlie Dorsal Ligament passes transversely between the two bones. The Plantar Ligament has a similar arrangement. It is strengthened by a process given off from tlie tendon of the Tibialis posticus. The Interosseous Ligament consists of strong transverse fibres wluch connect the adjacent rough non-articular surfaces of the two bones. The Synovial Membrane of this joint is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. , , i -r t Movements.—The movements permitted between the external cuneiform and culjoid are limited to a slight gliding upon each other. Nerve-supply.—All the joints of the tarsus are supphed by the anterior tibial nerve.