SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL REGION 475 The Sterno-mastoid (m. sternocleiclomastoideus) (fig. 490) is a large, thick f whioh msses obliquely across the side of the neck, being enclosed iElt:^en I ftr rm investing layer of the deep cervical fascia ifcis thlk and narrow at its central part, but broader and thinner at eithei extremity It arises by two heads from the sternum and clavicle. The : W is a rounded fasciculus, tendinous in front, fleshy behind, whidi Ss from the upper and anterior part of the manubrium sterm, and s , d ectedumvards, outwards, and backwards. The clavicidar forlion arises from ^e superFor border and akterior surface of the inner third of the clavicle, behircomposed of fleshy and aponeurotic fibres ; it is directed a most verti- ca l/upwarfs. These two portions are separated from one another at their , origin by a triangular interval, but become graduaUy blended, below the ■ middle of the neck? into a thick, rounded muscle which is mserted, by a strong 1 tendon, into the outer surface of the mastoid process, fl^om its apex to its ; fCSr border, and by a thin aponeurosis into the outer half of the superior i curved line of the occipital bone. The Sterno-mastoid vanes much in its . extent of attachment to the clavicle : in one case the clavicular may be as , narrow as the sternal portion ; in another, as much as three mches m breadth When the clavicular origin is broad, it is occasionally subdivided mto numeious ■ shps separated by narrow intervals. More rarely, the adjoming margms of the Sterno-mastoid and Trapezius have been found m contact. , . , . This muscle divides the quadrilateral area of the side of the neck into two •triangles, an anterior and a posterior. The boundaries of the antenor tnangle . are, in front, the median fine of the neck ; above, the lower border of the body of the mandible, and an imaginary line drawn from the angle of the mandible to the Sterno-mastoid ; behind, the anterior border of the Sterno-naastoid muscle. The apex of the triangle is at the upper border of the sternum. Ihe boundaries of the -posterior triangle are, in front, the posterior border of the bterno-mastoid ; below, the middle third of the clavicle ; behind, the anterior margin ot the Trapezius. The apex corresponds with the meeting of the bterno-mastoid and Trapezius on the occipital bone.* Relations.—By its swperfcial surface it is in relation with the integument and Piatysma, from which it is separated by the external jugular vein, several ot tne superficial branches of the cervical plexus, and the anterior layer of the deep cervical fascia.' By its deep surface it is in relation with the sterno-clavicular articulation, tne process of the deep cervical fascia which binds the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid to the sternum and clavicle, the Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyi-oid, Omo-hyoid, posterior belly of the Digastric, Levator anguli scapulae, Splenius and Scaleni muscles, the common carotid artery, the internal and anterior jugular vems, the origins of the mternal and external carotid arteries, the occipital, subclavian, transversaUs colli, and suprascapular arteries and veins, the phrenic, pneumogastric, hypoglossal, descendens and communicantes hypoglossi nerves, the spmal accessory nerve which pierces its upper third, the cervical plexus, the upper part of the brachial plexus, parts of the thyi-oid and parotid glands and their vessels, and the deep lymphatic glands. Actions.—When only one Sterno-mastoid muscle acts, it draws the head towards the shoulder of the same side, assisted by the Splenius and the ObUquus capitis inferior of the opposite side. At the same time it rotates the head so as to carry the face towards the opposite side. If the head be fixed, the two muscles assist in elevating the thorax in forced inspiration. Acting together from their sterno-clavicular attachments the muscles will flex the cervical part of the vertebral column. Nerves.—The Piatysma is supplied by the facial nerve; the Sterno- mastoid by the spinal accessory and branches from the anterior primary divisions of the second and third cervical nerves. Surface Form.—The anterior edge of the muscle forms a very prominent ridge beneath the skin and constitutes a guide to the surgeon in making the necessary mcisions for hgature of the common or external carotid artery, or of the internal jugular vein. Applied Anatomy.—The surgical anatomy of the Sterno-mastoid muscle is of import- ance in connection with the deformity kno^vn as wry-neck, which is due to a contracted condition of this muscle. The wry-neck may be temporary, as the result of direct * The anatomy o£ these triangles will be more fully described with that of the vessels of the neck (p. 640).