1188 SPLANUHNULOGY pass to each medullary pyramid, and run along its sides for its entire length, giving off, as they advance, the afferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies in the columns. Having arrived at the bases of the pyramids, they form arterial arches or arcades which lie between the bases of the pyramids and the cortical arches, and break up into two distinct sets of branches devoted to the supply of the remaining portions of the kidney. Pig. 987. -Transverse section of pyramidal substance of kidney of pig, the blood-vessels of which are injected. a. Large collecting tube, cut across, lined witli cylindrical epitlielium. 6. Branch o£ collecting tube, cut across, lined with epithelium with shorter cylinders, c, d. Henle's loops cut across. c. Blood-vessels cut across. D. Oonnective-tissue ground-substance. The first set, the interlobular arteries (figs. 988, 989, b), are given off at right angles from the side of the arterial arcade looking towards the cortical substance, and pass directly outwards between the medullary rays to reach the fibrous capsule, where they termmate in the capillary network of this part. These vessels do not anastomose with, each other, but form what are called end-arteries. In their outward coui-se they give off lateral branches; Fig. 988.—^Diagrammatic sketch of the blood-vessels of the kidney. Fig, 989.—A portion of fig. 988 enlarged. (The references are the same.) A. o. Proper renal artery and vein, the former giving off the rctml allcrente, the '«tt?"^,X "^-ei.« am cfferents. B b. Interlobular artery and vein, the latt«r commencing from the st«Uat« ami receiving branches from the ple.viH around the tubuli contorti, tlie former giving off o Stra^ht tube, surrounded by tubuli contorti, witl, which it communicatj. Ug. 981. n. Margin of medullary substance. K E B. Receiving tubes, cut off. i f. Artcrioiic CL venic recta;, the latter arising from (0) the plexus at the medullary apex. these are the nfTerent vessels for the Malpighian bodies (see page 1185); t^^y pierce the capsule, and end in the Malpighian tufts. From each tuft ^'^'^^^V'^f'^lf'^^^^^ arises, and, having made its egress from the capsule near to the pomt ^re the affe.ent vessel enters, breaks up into a number of branches, which form a dense plexus around the adjacent urinary tubes (fig. 990).