25 BONE tissue and the solid matter between them abundant, while in the cancellouB t issue the spaces are large and the solid matter is in smaller quantity. Bone durino- life is permeated by vessels, and as enclosed, except wliere it is coated with articular cartilajic, in a fibrous membrane, the fcnosteum, by means of which many of these vessels reach the hard tissue. If the periosteum be stripped from the surface of the Uving bone, small bleeding points are seen which mark the entrance of the periosteal vessels ; and on section during life every part ot the bone exudes blood from the minute vessels which ramify m it. ihe interior ot each of the long bones of the limbs presents a cylindrical cavity hlled witJ: marrow and lined by a liighly vascular areolar structure, called the medullary mcmhrcmc or internal 'periosteum, which, however, is rather the areolar envelope of the cells of the marrow than a definite membrane. The periosteum adheres to the surface of each of the bones m nearly every part, but not to cartilaginous extremities. When strong tendons or Hgaments are attached to a bone, the periosteum is incorporated with them. It consists of two layers closely united together, the outer one formed chiefly of connective tissue, containing occasionally a few fat-ccHs ; the inner one, of elastic fibres of the Fig. 32.—Human bone-marrow. (Highly magnified.) Normoblast with dioidiiuj nucleus Mxjelocyte Erythrocyte --'^ Myeloplaxe —<:-, Myelocyte' Fat- Eosinophile cell Normoblasts Myelocyte dividing ^ir^^C^—Myelocyte ■Fat finer kind, forming dense membranous networks, which can be again separated into several layers. In young bones the periosteum is thick and very vascular, and is intimately connected at either end of the bone with the epiphysial carti- lage, but less closely with the shaft, from which it is separated by a layer of soft tissue, containing a number of granular corpuscles or ' osteoblasts,' in which ossification proceeds on the exterior of the young bone. Later in life the periosteum is thinner, less vascular, and the osteoblasts are converted into an epithelioid layer on the deep surface of the periosteum. The periosteum serves as a nidus for the ramification of the vessels previous to their distribution in the bone ; hence the habihty of bone to exfoliation or necrosis, when denuded of this membrane by injury or disease.' Fine nerves and lymphatics, wliich generally accompany the arteries, may also be demonstrated in the periostiuni. The marrow not only fills up the cyUndrical cavities in the shafts of the long bones, but also occupies the spaces of the cancellous tissue and extends into the larger bony canals (Haversian canals) which contain the blood-vessels. It differs in composition in different bones. In the shafts of the long bones the marrow is of a ijellotv colour, and contains, in 100 parts, 96 of fat, 1 of areolar tissue and vessels, and 3 of fluid with extractive matter; it consists of a basis of connective