THE PANCREAS 1179 structure (fig. 974).—In structure, the pancreas resembles the salivary glands It differs from to certain particulars, and is looser and sof ter .n its textui-e. S is nJencosed in a distinct capsule, but is surrounded by areoar tissue, which dips Into its interior, and connects together the various lobbies ot wludi ^^ ^^^^0^0^ Each lobule, like the lobules of the salivary glands, consists of one of the ultima e ramifications of the main duct, terminating in a number of c^fical pouches or a yeoli wMch are tubular and somewhat convoluted. The minu e ducts connected mtl the riveoli are narrow and lined with flattened cells. The a veoli are ^I'^^^^^P'f y filled with secreting cells, so that scarcely any lumen is visible. In some animals those cells which occupy the centre of the alveolus are spindle-shaped and nie l^nown as the centro-acinar cells of Langerhans. The true secreting cells which Ime the wall of the alveolus are very characteristic. They are columnar in shape and present two zones. an outer one, clear and finely striated next the basement-membrane and an inner granular one next the lumen. During activity the granular zone gradually diminishes in size, and when exhausted is only seen as a small area sui-rounding the lumen. Dm-ing the resting stages it gradually increases until it fills nearly three-fourths of the cell. In some of the secreting cells of the pancreas is a spherical mass, staining more easily than the rest of the cell; this is termed the -paranucleus, and is believed to be an extension trom the nucleus. The connective tissue between the alveoh presents in certain parts collections of cells, which are termed inter-alveolar cell-islets, or islands of Langerhans. The cells stain h^htly and are more or less polyhedi-al in shape, forming a network m which ramily many capillaries. These cell-islets were formerly supposed to secrete an mternal secretion Fig. 974.—Section of a portion of the pancreas. which influenced carbohydrate metabolism, but have been demonstrated by Dale to be alveoli in a stage of exhaustion, which after a time become re-converted into fresh alveoli. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the -pancreas are derived from the splenic, and the pancreatico-duodenal branches of the hepatic and superior mesenteric. Its veins open into the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its hjmpJiatics are described on page 787. Its nerves are filaments from the splenic plexus. Surface Relations.—The pancreas Ues in front of the second lumbar vertebra, and can sometimes be felt, in emaciated subjects, when the stomach and colon are empty, by making deep pressui-e in the middle line about three inches above the umbiUcus. Applied Anatomy.—Inflammation of the pancreas has of late years received considerable attention. It appears to be due to infection of the pancreatic ducts by micro-organisras from the duodenum in cases of gastro-duodenal catarrh, or from the biliary passages in which a gall-stone is lodged. Acute cases usually terminate fatally and are frequently of the haemorrhagic type ; chronic inflammation of the pancreas produces few symptoms of disease unless it is extensive, when attacks of abdominal pain, loss of appetite, progressive weakness and wasting, and the passage of whitish fatty motions, are likely to follow. Extensive fibrosis of the pancreas is also one of the commonest lesions found post-mortem in cases of diabetes mellitus. Cysts of the pancreas are sometimes met with. They may be the result of traumatism, when they generally contain blood, or they may be due to retention from obstruction of a duct, or from pressure on the main duct by a gall-stone. They may attain a large size, and cause symptoms by pressing on the stomach. Diaphragm, or common bile-duct. They generally push their way forwards between the stomach and transverse colon, and may then be felt as a definite tumotur in