481 LINGUAL REGION inserted. Upon removing this with the mucous membrane, the first stratum of muscular fibres is exposed. This belongs to the group of intrinsic muscles, and has been named the Superior lingualis. It consists of a thin layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres, which arise from the submucous fibrous layer, close to the epiglottis, and from the fibrous septum, and pass forwards and outwards to the edges of the tongue. Between its fibres pass some vertical fibres derived from the Genio-hyo-glossus and from the Vertical intrinsic muscle, which will be described later on. Beneath this layer is the second stratum of muscular fibres, derived principally from the extrinsic muscles. In front, it is formed by the fibres derived from the Stylo-glossus, running along the side of the tongue, and sending one set of fibres over the dorsum which runs obhquely forwards and inwards to the middle line, and another set of fibres, on to the under surface of the sides of the anterior part of the tongue, which runs forwards and inwards, between the fibres of the Hyo-glossus, to the middle line. Behind this layer of fibres, derived from the Stylo-glossus, are fibres derived from the Hyo-glossus, together with some few fibres of the Palato-glossus. The Hyo-glossus, entering the side of the under surface of the tongue, between the Stylo-glossus and Inferior lingualis, passes round its margin and spreads out into a layer on the dorsum fjg. 493.-CoronaI section of tongue, showing which occupies the middle third of intrinsic muscles. (Altered from Ki-ause.) the organ, and runs almost trans- versely inwards to the septum. It y S is reinforced by some fibres from ^^winmnnL'Wxnrlwir! the ralato-glossus; other fibres of ^r-^^' ' , , this muscle pass more deeply and rs^^^ - ^ i • ■ intermingle with the next layer. " ^ _ The posterior part of the second • *, —-—>^ layer of the muscular fibres of the tongue is derived from those fibres of the Hyo-glossus which arise from the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, and are here described as a separate muscle—the Chondro-glossus. The fibres of this muscle are arranged in a fan-shaped manner, and spread out over the posterior third of the ^./l/ ; ' ' tongue. Beneath this layer is the ^ '•l^''^^'^''- ' great mass of the intrinsic muscles 'J^flVei of the tongue, intersected at right ^^i;?;: i angles by the terminal fibres of one of the extrinsic muscles—the „. Lmgual artery, b. inferior ImguaUs, cut tl>roud.. J.'ibres beniO-hyO-gloSSUS. This portion °' Hyo-glossus. a. Oblique fibres of stylo-glossus. c. Insertion nf tlio +r^.-nm,^ in -^nl I, „ 1 1 °* Trausvcrse lingualis. f. Superior lingualis. g. Papilto of 01 tJie tongue is paler in colour and tongue, h. vertical fibres ot Genio-li/o-glossus interseotiDg softer in texture than that already Transverse Ungualls. i. septum. described, and is sometimes desig- ^^'^ ruedullary portion in contradistinction to the firmer superficial part, which IS termed the cortical portion. It consists largely of transverse fibres, the Iransverse lingualis, and of vertical fibres, the Vertical lingualis. The Transverse lingualis forms the largest portion of the third layer of muscular fibres of the tongue. The fibres arise from the median septum, and pass outwards to be inserted into the submucous fibrous layer at the sides of the tongue. Intermingled with these transverse intrinsic fibres are transverse extrinsic fibres derived from tile falato-glossus and the Superior constrictor of the pharynx. These Trans- verse extnnsic fibres, however, run in the opposite direction, passing inwards towards tile septum. Intersecting the transverse fibres are a lartre number of vertical fibres derived partly from the Genio-hyo-glossus and partly from intrinsic noies, the Vertical lingualis. The fibres derived from the Genio-hyo-glossus enter tne uucler surface of the tongue on either side of the median septum from base to apex. Lhey ascend in a radiating manner to the dorsum, being inserted into the suDmucous fibrous layer covering the tongue on cither side of the middle line. The vertical lingualis is found only at the borders of the fore part of the tongue, ^xtemai to the fibres of the Genio-hyo-glossus. Its fibres extend from the upper o tne under surface of the organ, decussating with the fibres of the other muscles, I I