484 MYOLOGY with tlie Palato-pharyngeus, the tonsil, the pharyngeal aponeurosis and mucous membraiK; of the pharynx. Its lower border is separated from the Middle constrictor of the pharynx by the Stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The Stylo-pharyngeus is a long, slender muscle, cylindrical above, Ijroad and thin below. It arises from the inner side of the base of the styloid process, passes downwards along the side of the pharynx between the Superior and Middle constrictors, and spreads out beneath the mucous membrane. Some of its fibres are lost in the Constrictor muscles, while others, joining with the Palato-pharyngeus, are inserted into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve runs on the outer side of this muscle, and crosses over it in passing forward to the tongue. "Nerves.—The Constrictors are supphed by branches from the pharyngeal plexus, the Inferior constrictor by additional branches from the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves, and the Stylo-pharyngeus by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Actions.—When deglutition is about to be performed, the pharynx is drawn upwards and dilated in different directions, to receive the food propelled into it from the mouth. The Stylo-pharyngei, which are much farther removed from 'One another at their origin than at their insertion, draw the sides of the pharynx 'Upwards and outwards, and so increase its transverse diameter ; its breadth in the antero-posterior direction is increased by the larynx and tongue being carried forwards in their ascent. As soon as the bolus is received in the pharvnx, the ^•elevator muscles relax, the pharynx descends, and the Constrictors contract upon the bolus, and convey it gradually downwards into the cBsophagus. VI. Palatal Region (fig. 495) Levator palati. Palato-glossus. Tensor palati. Palato-pharyngeus. Azygos uvula3. Salpingo-pharyngeus. The Levator palati (m. levator veli palatini) is a long, thick, rounded muscle, placed on the outer side of the posterior nares. It arises from the under surface of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and from the inner surface of the cartUagmous portion of the Eustachian tube. After passing above the upper concave margin of the Superior constrictor, it spreads out in the soft palate, its fibres extending obliquely downwards and inwards, as far as the middle line, where they blend with those of the opposite side. The Tensor palati (m. tensor veli palatini) is a broad, thm, nband-iike muscle, placed on the outer side of the Levator palati, and consisthig of a vertical and a horizontal portion. The vertical portion arises by a flat lamella from the scaphoid fossa at the base of the internal pterygoid plate, from the .spine of the sphenoid, and from the outer side of the cartdagnious portion of the Eustachian tube. Descending vertically between the internal pterygoid plate and the inner surface of the Internal pterygoid muscle, it ternimates in a tendon, which winds round the hamular process, being retauied in this situation by some of the fibres of origin of the Internal pterygoid muscle. Between the hamular process and the tendon is a smaU bursa. The tendon or horizontal portion then passes inwards, and is mserted into a broad aponeurosis, the palatine aponeurosis, and into the transverse ridge on tlie horizontal portion of the palate bone. r ^.i i j Palatine aponeurosis.—Attached to the posterior border of the hard palate is a thin, firm, fibrous lamella which supports the niusch^s and gives strength to the soft palate. It is thicker above than below, where it becomes very thin and difficult to define. Laterally, it is continuous with the pharyngeal aponeurosis. 111,, The Azygos uvulse (m. uvulae) is not a single muse e as ^^x)uld be inferred from its name, but a pair of narrow cylindrical fleshy fasciculi, placed one on either side of the median line of the soft palate ±.acli muscu> arises from tlie posterior nasal spine of the palate bone, and from the con- tiguous tendinous aponeurosis of the soft palate, and descends to be inserted into the uvula.