617 THE ARTERIES THE ARTERIES Arteries are cylindrical tubular ves!3els, which convoy blood from the ventricles of tlie heart to the different parts of the body. These vessels were named arteries from the belief entertained l^y tlie ancients that they contained air. Galen M-as the first to show that during life they contain blood. The distribution of the systemic arteries is like a highly ramified tree, the common trunk of which, formed by the aorta, commences at the left ventricle, while tlie smallest ramifications extend to the peripheral parts of the body and the contained organs. Arteries are found in all parts of the body, except in the hairs, nails, epidermis, cartilages, and cornea ; the larger trunks usually occupy the most protected situations, runnmg, in tlie limbs, along the flexor side, where they are less exposed to injury. There is considerable variation in the mode of division of the arteries : occasionally a short trunk subdivides into several branches at the same point, as may be observed in the coeliac and thyroid axes ; the vessel may give off several branches in succession, and still continue as the main trunk, as is seen in the arteries of the limbs ; or the division may be dichotomous, as, for instance, when the aorta divides into tlie two common iliacs, or the common carotid into the external and internal carotids. A branch of an artery is smaller than the trunk from which it arises ; but if an artery divides into two branches, the combined sectional area of the two vessels is, in nearly every instance, somewhat greater than that of the trunk ; and the combined sectional area of all the arterial branches greatly exceeds that of the aorta ; so that the arteries collectively may be regarded as a cone, the apex of which corresponds to the aorta, and the base to the capillary system. The arteries, in their distribution, communicate with one another, forming what are called anastomoses, and these communications are very free between the large as well as between the smaller branches. The anastomosis bet^^'een trunks of equal size is found where great activity of the circulation is requisite, as in the brain ; here the two vertebral arteries unite to form the basilar, and the two anterior cerebral arteries are connected by a short communicating trunk ; it is also found in the abdomen, the intestinal arteries having very ample anastomoses between their larger branches. In the limbs, the anasto- moses are most numerous and of largest size around the joints ; the branches of an arterj' above uniting with branches from the \^essels Ijelow. These anastomoses are of considerable interest to the surgeon, as it is by their enlarge- ment that a collateral circulation is established after the application of a ligature to an artery. The smaller branches of arteries anastomose more frequently than the larger ; and between the smallest twigs these anastomoses become so numerous as to constitute a close network that pervades nearly every tissue of the body. Throughout the body generally tlie larger arterial branches pursue a fairly straight course, but in certain situations they are tortuous. Thus the facial artery in its course over the face, and the arteries of the lips, are extremely tortuous to accommodate themselves to the movements of the parts. The uterine arteries are also tortuous, to accommodate themselves to the increase of size M hich the uterus undergoes during pregnancy. The arteries are dense in structure, of considerable strength, highly elastic, and, when divided, they preserve, although empty, their cylindrical form. Their structure has been described on page 55. Applied Anatomy.—All the arteries, and most of all the aorta, are liable to a degenerative process kno^TO as atheroma, arteriosclerosis, or, more recently, atherosclerosis (Marchand), that is of the greatest clinical importance. It is essentiallv a senile cliange, although it may begin at any age and is predisposed to by renal disease, gout, diabetes mellitus, lead poisoning, and a number of other morbid states, and results in the replacement of the arterial elastic tissue by fibrous tissue. Its chief ill effects are two. In the first place, it is associated with a permanent and often considerable rise in the arterial blood-pressure, entailuig a con'esponding hypertrophy of the heart ; in the second, it weakens the vessel Walls, rendering them more liable to rupture, while at the same time it is apt to lessen the calibre of the affected vessels.