MYOLOGY . 522.—Front of the left forearm. Deep muscles. from the internal lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, and from the intermuscular septa between it and the preceding muscles. The second head (caput ulnare) arises from the inner side of the coro- noid process of the ulna, above the ulnar origin of the Pronator teres (see fig. 358, page 302). The third head (caput radiale) arises from the obhque line of the radius, extending from the bicipital tuberosity to the in- sertion of the Pronator teres. The fibres pass vertically do\i^nwards, forming a broad and thick muscle, which speedily separates into two planes of muscular fibres, superficial and deep : the super- ficial plane divides into two parts which end in tendons for tlie middle and ring fingers ; tlie deep plane gives off a muscular slip to join the part of the superficial j)lane which is associated with the tendon of the ring finger, and then divides into two parts, which end in tendons for the index and Httle fingers. As the four tendons thus formed pass beneath the annular ligament into the palm of the hand, they are arranged in pairs, the super- ficial pair corresponding to the middle and ring fingers, the deep pair to the index and httle fingers. The tendons diverge from one another as they run onwards, and form posterior relations to the superficial palmar arch and digital branches of the median and ulnar nerves. Opposite the bases of the first phalanges each tendon divides into two slips, to allow of the passage of the corre- sponding tendon of the Flexor profundus digitorum ; the two portions of the tendon then unite and form a grooved channel for the reception of the accompany- ing deep Flexor tendon. Fmally they subdivide a second time, to be 'inserted into the sides of the second phalanges about their middle. After leaving the palm, these tendons, accompanied by the deep Flexor tendons, he m osseo-aponeurotic canals (fig. 522). The canals are completed by strong fibrous sheaths, wliich arch across the tendons, and are attached on each side to the margins of tlie phalanges.