INFRAHYOID REGION 477 ,t)asses almost verticaUy upwards, close to the outer border of the Sterno- ! hvoid to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, i iust external to the insertion of the Sterno-hyoid. The central tendon of this muscle which varies much in length and form, is held in position by a process , of the deep cervical fascia, which sheathes it. This process is prolonged down I to be attached to the clavicle and first rib. It is by this means that the angular : form of the muscle is maintained. . . , . xi. i The posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid divides the posterior triangle ot the neck into an upper or occifital and a lower or subclavian triangle, while its anterior belly divides the anterior triangle into an upper or carotid and a lower or muscular tnangle Nerves.—The Thyro-hyoid is supphed by a branch from the hypoglossal nerve • the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid by the descendens hypoglossi; the Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, and posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, are supplied Fig. 491.—Muscles of the neck. Anterior view. by branches from the loop of communication between the descendens and communicantes hjqjoglossi. Actions.—These muscles depress the larynx and hyoid bone, after they have been drawn up with the pharynx in the act of deglutition. The Omo-hyoid muscles not only depress the hyoid bone, but carry it backwards and to one or the other side. They are concerned especially in prolonged inspiratory efforts ; for by rendering the lower part of the cervical fascia tense they lessen the inward suction of the soft parts, which would otherwise compress the great vessels and the apices of the lungs. The Thyro-hyoid may act as an elevator of the thyroid cartilage, when the hyoid bone ascends, drawing the thyroid cartilage up behind the hyoid bone. The Sterno-thyroid acts as a depressor of the thyroid cartilage. III. Suprahyoid Region Digastric. Stylo-hyoid. (figs. 490, 491) Mylo-hyoid. Genio-hyoid. The Digastric (m. digastricus) consists of two fleshy bellies united by an intermediate, rounded tendon. It is a small muscle, situated below the