23 CARTILAGE Fig. 29.—Costal cartilage from a man seventy-six years of age, showing the development of fibrous sti-ucture in the matrix. In several portions of the specimen two or three generations of cells are seen enclosed in a parent cell-wall. High power. tissue, but is not so really, for the vessels give no branches to the caitilage sub- stance itself and the channels may rather be looked upon as mvolutions of the Sondri m. The ensiform cartilage and the cartilages of the nose, larynx and Sea (except the epiglottis and cornicula laryngis, which are composed of elastic fibro-cartilagc) resemble the costal cartilages in microscopical characters. The hyahne cartilages, especiaUy in adult and advanced hfe, are prone to calcify-that is to say, to have their matrix permeated by calcium salts without any appearance of true bone. The pro- cess of calcification occurs frequently, according to Rollett, in such cartilages as those of the trachea and in the costal cartilages, where it may be succeeded by conversion into true bone. White fibro-cartilage consists of a mixture of white fibrous tissue and carti- laginous tissue in various proportions; to the former of these constituents it owes its flexibility and toughness, and to the latter its elasticity. _ When examined under the microscope it is found to be made up of fibrous connective tissue arranged in bundles, with cartilage-cells between the bundles ; the cells to a certain extent resemble tendon-cells, but may be distinguished from them by being sur- rounded by a concentrically striated area of cartilage matrix and by being less flattened (fig. 30). The fibro-cartilages admit of arrangement into four groups —interarticular, connecting, circumferen- tial, and stratiform. 1. The interarticular Jibro-cartilages (menisci) are flattened fibro-cartilaginous plates, of a round, oval, triangular, or sickle-Uke form, interposed between the ai-ticular cartilages of certain joints. They are free on both sui-faces, usually thinner towards the centre than at the circumference, and held in position by the attachment of their margins and extremities to the surrounding Ugaments. The synovial membranes of the joints are prolonged over them. They are found in the temporo-mandibular, sterno- clavicular, acromio-clavicular, I^G. 30.—White fibro-cartilage from an wrist- and knee-joints—i.e. in intervertebral disc. those joints which are most exposed to violent concussion and subject to frequent move- ment. Their uses are to obliterate the intervals be- tween opposed surfaces in their various motions; to increase the depths of the articular surfaces and give ease to the gUding move- ments ; to moderate the effects of great pressure and deaden the intensity of the shocks to which the parts may be subjected. Humphry has pointed out that these inter- ar-ticular fibro-cartilages serve an important purpose in increasing the varieties of movement in a joint. Thus, in the knee-joint, there are two lands of motion, viz. angular movement and rotation, although it is a hinge joint, in which, as a rule, only one variety of motion is permitted; the former movement takes place between the condyles of the femur and the interarticular cartilages, the latter between the cai-tilages and the head of the tibia. So, also, in the temporo-mandibular joint, the movements