EXTERNAL ORGANS 1231 Veneris and form tlie lateral boundaries of a fissure or cleft, the uroge7iital cleft (rima pudendi) into \\'hich the vagina and urethra open. Eacli labium lias two surfaces, an outer, i^igmented and covered with strong, crisp hairs ; and an inner, smooth and beset with large sebaceous follicles. Between the two there is a considerable quantity of areolar tissue, fat, and a tissue resembling the dartos of the scrotum, besides vessels, nerves, and glands. The labia are thicker in front, M'here they form by their meeting the anterior commissure (eommissura labiorum anterior). Posteriorly they are not really joined, but appear to become lost in the neighbouring integument, terminating close to, and nearly parallel with, each other. Together with the connecting skin between them, they form the posterior commissiire (eommissura labiorum posterior), or posterior boundary of the vulval orifice. The interval between the posterior commissure and the anus, from an inch to an inch and a quarter in length, constitutes the permjeum. The labia majora correspond to the scrotum in the male. The labia minora, or nymphae (labia minora pudendi), are two small cutaneous folds, situated within the labia majora, and extending from the clitoris obUquely downwards, outwards, and backwards for about an inch and a half on each side of the orifice of the vagina, between M'hich and the labia majora they are lost ; in the virgin the posterior ends of the labia minora are usually joined across the middle line by a fold of skin, named the fourchette (frenulum labiorum pudendi). Anteriorly, each labium minus divides into two portions : the upper division passes above the clitoris to meet its fellow of the opposite side, forming a fold which overhangs the glans cHtoridis and is named the prceputium clitoridis ; the lower division passes beneath the clitoris and becomes united to its under surface, forming, with its fellow of the opposite side, the frenulum clitoridis. On the internal surfaces of the labia minora are numerous sebaceous follicles. The clitoris is an erectile structure, homologous with the penis. It is situated beneath the anterior commissure, partially hidden between the anterior extremities of the labia minora. It consists of two corpora cavernosa, composed of erectile tissue enclosed in a dense layer of fibrous membrane, united together along their inner surfaces by an incomplete fibrous pectiniforra septum ; these are connected to the rami" of the pubis and ischium on either side by a crus ; the free extremity, or glans clitoridis, is a small rounded tubercle, consisting of spongy erectile tissue, and highly sensitive. The clitoris is provided, like the penis, with a suspensory ligament, and with two small muscles, the Erectores clitoridis, which are inserted into the crura of the clitoris. The vestibule.—The cleft between the labia minora and behind the glans clitoridis is named the vestibule (vestibulum vagina;) : in it are seen the urethral and vaginal orifices and the openings of the ducts of Bartholin's glands. The urethral orifice (orificium urethrcc externum) is placed about an inch behind the glans clitoridis and immediately in front of that of the vagina ; It usually assumes the form of a short, sagittal cleft with slightly raised margins. The vaginal orifice (orificium vaginae) is a mesial slit below and behind the openmg of the urethra; its size varies inversely with the degree of develop- ment of the hymen. The hymen is a thin fold of mucous membrane situated at the orifice of the vaguia ; the inner surfaces of the fold are normally in contact with each other, and the vaginal orifice appears as a cleft between them. The hymen varies much in shape. When stretched, its commonest form is that of a ring generally broadest posteriorly ; sometimes it is represented by a semilunar told, with its concave margin turned towards the pubes. Occasionally it is cribriform, or its free margin forms a membranous fringe. It may be entirely absent or may form a complete septum across the lower end of the vagina : tlie latter condition is known as an imperforate hymen. It may persist after copulation, so that it cannot be considered as a test of virginity. When the hymen has been ruptured, small rounded elevations known as the carunculce liymencales are found as its remains. Between the hymen and the fourchette is a sliallo\\- depression, named the fossa navicularis. The buibus vestibuii is the homologue of tlie bulb and adjoining part of the corpus spongiosum of the male, and consists of two elongated masses