210 OSTEOLOGY so that the head of the bone is directed downwards. The upper surface, of the shaft is marked by two shallow grooves, separated from each other by a slight ridge prolonged internally into a tubercle, the scalene tubercle (tuberculum scaleni [Lisfranci]), for tlie attachment of the Scalenus anticus; the anterior groove transmits the subclavian vein, the posterior the sub- clavian artery. Between the groove for the subclavian artery and tlie tuberosity is a rough surface for the attachment of the Scalenus medius. The iinder surface is smooth, and destitute of a subcostal groove. The outer border is convex, thick, and rounded, and at its posterior part gives attach- ment to the first serration of the Serratus magnus; the inner is con- cave, thin, and sharp, and marked about its centre by the scalene tubercle. The anterior extremity is larger and thicker than that of any of the other ribs. The second rib (fig. 281) is much longer than the first, but bears a very considerable resemblance to it in the direction of its curvature. The non- articular portion of the tuberosity is occasionally only feebly marked. The angle is slight, and situated close to the tuberosity. The sJiaft is not twisted, so that both ends touch any plane surface upon which it may be laid ; but there is a bend, with its convexity upwards, similar to, though smaller than that found in the first rib. The shaft is not flattened horizontally like that of the first rib. Its external surface, which is convex, looks upwards and a httle outwards; it presents, near the middle, a rough eminence for the attacliment of the lower part of the first and the whole of the second digitation of the Serratus magnus ; behind and above this is attached the Scalenus posticus. The internal surface, smooth and concave, is du-ected downwards and a little inwards : it presents a short subcostal groove towards its posterior part. The tenth rib (fig. 282) has only a single articular facet on its head. The eleventh and twelfth ribs (figs. 283 and 284) have each a single arti- cular facet on the head, wliich is of rather large size ; they have no necks or tuberosities, and are pointed at their extremities. The eleventh has a slight angle and a shallow subcostal groove. The twelfth has neither, and is much shorter than the eleventh, and the head has a httle inclmation do^\7i\\ ards. Sometimes the twelfth rib is even shorter than the first. Structure.—The ribs consist of highly vascular cancellous tissue, enclosed in a thin layer of compact bone. Ossification.—Each rib, with the exception of the last two, is developed by three centres; a primary centre for the shaft, and two epiphyses, one for the head and one for the tubercle. The eleventh and twelfth ribs have only two centres, that foi the tubercle being wanting. Ossification begins in the shaft at a very early period, before its appearance in the vertebrae. The epiphysis for the head, of a slightly angular shape, and that for the tubercle, of a lenticular form, make their appearance between the sixteenth and twentieth years, and are not united to the rest of the bone until about the twenty-fifth year. Applied Anatomy.—GervitMl ribs derived from the seventh cer\ical vertebra (page 187) are of not infrequent occurrence, and are important clinically because they may give rise to obscure nervous or vascular symptoms. The cervical rib may be a mere epiphysis articulating only with the transverse process of the vertebra, but more commonly it consists of a defined head, neck and tubercle, with or without a bod}'. It extends outwards, or forwards and outwards, into the posterior triangle of the neck, where it may terminate in a free end or may join the first thoracic rib, the first costal cartilage, or the sternum.* It varies much in shape, size, direction, and mobility. If it reach far enough forwards, part of the brachial plexus and the subclavian artery and vein cross over it, and are apt to suffer compression in so doing. Pressure on the artery may obstruct the circulation so mucii that arterial thrombosis results, causing gangrene ot the finger-tips. Pressure on the nerves is commoner, and affects the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves, causing paralysis of the muscles they supply, and neuralgic pains and parc-esthcsia in the area of skin to which they are distributed ; no oculo-pupil arv changes arc to be found. If these symptoms be severe, removal of the nb or as much ot it as causes pressure on the vessels and nerves is called for. Ihe operation is not tree from difficulty, and has been followed by paralysis of the muscles and by subchman aneurysm, due to injuries inflicted in the course of the operation. * W. 'Ihorbum, 1/ie Med. Chronicle, Manchester, 1907, 4th series, xiv., No. 3,