THE THYMUS GLAND 1239 particulars from each other. The cortical porlion is mainly composed of lymphoid cells, supported by u delicate reticulum. In addition to this reticulum, ot whicli only traces arc foiind in the medullary jjortion, there is also a network of finely branched cells, which is continuous with a similar network in the medullary portion. This network forms an adventitia to the blood-vessels. In the medullary porlion there are but few lym])hoid cells, but there are, especially towards the centre, granular cells and concentric cor|niscle8. The -rranular cells are rounded or flask-shaped masses, attached (often by libnllated extremities) to blood-vessels and to newly formed connective ti.ssue. The concentric cor- puscles are composed of a central mass, consisting of one or more granular cells, and of a capsule which is formed of epithelioid cells ; these latter are continuous with the branched cells forming the network mentioned above. Fig. 1024.—.Minute structure of thymus gland. Follicle of injected thymus from calf, four days old, slightly diagrammatic, magnified about 50 diameters. The large vessels are dis|D0sed in two rings, one of which surrounds the folUcle, the other lies just within the margin of the medulla. (Watney.) A and B. From thymus of camel, examined without addition o£ any reagent. Magnified about -100 diameters. A. Large colourless cell, containing small oval masses of hajmoglobin. Similar cells are found in the Ijinph-glands, spleen, and medulla of bone. B. Coloured blood-corpuscles. Each follicle is surrounded by a capillary plexus, from which vessels pass into the interior, and radiate from the peri[)hery towards the centre, forming a second zone just within the margin of the medullary portion. In the centre of the medulla (here are very few vessels, and they are of minute size. Watney has made the imjiortant observation that huemoglobin is found in the thymus, eitlier in cysts or in cells situated near to, or forming part of, the concentric corpuscles. This haemoglobin occurs as granules or as circular masses exactly resembling coloured blood-corpuscles. He has also discovered, in the lym])h issuing from the thymus, similar cells to those found in the gland, and, like them, containing hiemoglobin in the form of either granules or masses. From these facts he arrives at the conclusion that the thymus is one source of the coloured blood-eoriiuseles. Vessels and Nerves.-—The arteries supplying the thymus are derived from the internal mammary, and from the superior and inferior thyroid. The veins terminate in the left