553 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE HAND palmar fascia into the slips above mentioned, numerous strong, transverse fibres (fasciculi transversi) bind the separate processes together. The palmar fascia is intimately adlierent to the integument by dense fibro-areolar tissue forming the superficial palmar fascia, and gives origin by its inner margin to the Palmaris brevis. It covers the superficial palmar arch, the tendons of t lie Flexor muscles, and the branches of the median and ulnar nerves ; and on each side it gives off a vertical septum, which is continuous with the inter- osseous aponeurosis, and separates the lateral from the middle palmar group of muscles. The lateral portions of the palmar fascia are thin, fibrous layers, which l Over, on the radial side, the muscles of the ball of the thumb, and, on the uhiar side, the muscles of the little finger ; they are continuous witli the central portion of the palmar fascia and with the fascia on the dorsum of the hand. The superficial transverse ligament of the fingers is a thin band of transverse fibres (fasciculi transversi) ; it stretches across the roots of the four fingers, and is closely attached to the skin of the clefts, and internallj'' to the fifth metacarpal bone, forming a sort of rudimentary weh. Beneath it the digital vessels and nerves pass onwards to their destination. Applied Anatnmy.—The palmar fascia is liable to undergo contraction, producing a very inconvenient deformity, kno^vn as ' Dupuytren's contraction.' The ring and little fingers are most frequently implicated, but the others may also be involved. The 2)roximal phalanx is drawn down and cannot be straightened, and the two distal phalanges become similarly flexed as the disease advances. Owing to their constant exposure to injury and septic influences, the fingers are very liable to become the seat of serious inflammatory mischief. To this inflammation the term paronychia or whitlow is given, and this aft'ection may assume various degrees of severity. In the mildest cases the disease is confined to the superficial layer of the skin, and sujJiJuration takes place beneath it. This is known as subcuticular paronychia, and is a comparatively simple condition, for an incision through the epidermis will at once relieve it. The only compUcation is that the pus may burrow under the naO, causing increased pain. A more severe condition is the paronychia cellulosa, in which the pulp of the end of the finger is involved. This is attended with intense throbbing pain, owng to the fact that the inflamed area is covered by thick and often horny epithelium, when the disease occurs in the labouring classes, as it so frequently does. Ii) these cases, unless a timely incision is made, the inflammation is hable to involve the periosteum covering the phalanx, as there is least resistance in this direction, and sicbperiosteal paronychia is set up, which is followed by necrosis of a part or the whole of the ungual phalanx. In other cases, the inflammation may involve the theca of the Flexor tendons, and a thecal paronychia mav be set up. The inflammation then rapidly spreads up the sheath ; but the extent will depend upon the particular digit involved. From the description of the Flexor sheaths given above, it will be evident that inflammation of the sheath of the thumb and little finger may prove a far more formidable aSection than that of the other three digits, because the sheaths of these two digits communicate with the large sjmiovia] sheaths which surround the Flexor tendons (page 651), and the inflammation" may extend into the palm of the hand and beneath the annular Ugament into the forearm. In order to relieve these conditions, free and early incisions are necessary, and must be made vnih. discrimination, in order to avoid wounding important structures. In the pulp of the finger—i.e. over the distal phalanx—the incision should be made in the middle line and do^vn to the bone. In the rest of the finger, the incision should be made in the middle line over the phalanges, and not over the interphalangeal joints. In the palm of the hand, incisions may be made either on the distal or proximal side of the superficial palmar arch. On the distal sides the incisions should be made over the metacarpal bones, preferably those of the index and middle finger. On the proximal side, the safest line of masion is along the radial side of the hypothenar eminence, between the ulnar artery and nerve internally, and the median nerve externally. ^Vhen suppuration has extended under the annular ligament, and incisions are required in the forearm, the positions in which they should be made are over the tendons of the Flexor sublimis digitorum, between the median nerve and the ulnar artery, and over the tendon of the Flexor longus polUcis, between the radial artery and the tendon of the Flexor carpi racliahs. Chronic inflammation of the common flexor sheath is occasionally met with, consti- tuting a disease kno^vn as ' compound palmar gangUon ': it presents an hourglass outline, with a swelling in front of the wist and in the palm of the hand, and a constriction, corresponding to the annular ligament, between the two. Tlie fluid can be forced from the one s^yelling to the other under the ligament, and when this is done, a creaking sensation is sometimes perceived, from the presence of ' melon-seed' bodies in the mterior of the ganglion.