NERVOUS TISSUE 45 the axis-cylinder of a nerve-fibre (figs. 56, 57, 58). The others are termed the protovlasmic processes or dendrons ; they begin to divide and subdivide as soon as they emerge from the cell, and finally end in minute twigs and become lost among the other elements of the nervous tissue. Each nerve-cell consists of a fuiely fibrillated protoplasmic material, of a reddish or yellowish-brown colour, which occasionally presents patches of a deeper tint, caused by the aggregation of pigment-granules at one side of the nucleus, as in the substantia nigra and locus cceruleus of the brain. The protoplasm also contains pecuhar angular granules, which stain deeply with basic dyes, such as methylene blue ; these are known as NissFs granules (fig. 56). They extend into the dendritic processes but not into the axis cylinder; the small clear area at the point of exit of the axon is termed the cone of origin. These granules disappear {chromalolysis) during fatigue or after prolonged stimulation of the nerve-fibres connected with the cells. They are supposed to represent a store of nervous energy, and in various mental diseases are deficient or absent. The nucleus is, as a rule, a large, well-defined, round, vesicular body, often presenting an intra- nuclear network, and containing a nucleolus which is peculiarly clear and brilliant. Nerve-fibres are found universally in the peripheral nerves, and in the white substance of the brain and spinal cord. They are of two kinds—viz. meduUated or ivhile fibres, and non-medullaled or (jrey fibres. Fig. 59.—Medullated nerve-fibres stained with silver nitrate. Node of JRanvier I' ,V Mi ill: Frolmiann's lines The medullated fibres form the wliite part of the brain and spinal cord, and also the greater part of every cerebro-spinal nerve, and give to these structures their opaque, white aspect. When perfectly fresh they appear to be homogeneous ; but soon after removal from the body each fibre presents, when examined by trans- mitted Ught, a double outline or contour, as if consisting of two parts (fig. 59). The central portion is named the axis cylinder of Purkinje ; around this is a sheath of fatty material, staining black with osmic acid, named the white sub- stance of Schvann or medullary sheath, which gives to the fibre its double contour, and the whole is enclosed in a delicate membrane, the neurilemma, primitive sheath, or nucleated sheath of Schwann (fig. 59). The axis cylindrr is the essential part of the nerve-fibre, and is always present; the medullary sheath and the neuiilenima arc occasionally absent, especially at the origin and termination of the nerve-fibre. It undergoes no interruption from its origin in the nerve-centre to its peripheral termination, and must be regarded as a direct prolongation of a nerve-cell. It constitutes about one-half or one- third of the nerve-fibre, being greater in proportion in the fibres of the central organs than in those of the nerves. It is quite transparent, and is therefore indistinguishable in a perfectly fresli and natural state of the nerve. It is made up of exceedingly fine fibrils, which stain darkly with gold chloride (fig. 60), and at its termination may be seen to break up into these fibrillaj. The fibrillas have