1065 THE LARYNX Fio. 880.—Coronal section of larynx and upper part of trachea. permits of rotatory and gliding movements. The rotatory movement is one m Avhich the inferior cornua of the thyroid cartilage rotate upon the cricoid cartilage around an axis passing transversely through both joints. The gliding movement consists in a limited shifting of the cricoid on the thyroid in different dii-ections. The articulation between the arytenoid cartilages and the cricoid is also a diarthi-odial one, and permits of two varieties of movement : one a rotation of the arytenoid on a vertical axis, whereby the vocal process is moved outwards or inwards, and the opening of the rima glottidis increased or diminished ; the other is a gliding movement, and allows the arytenoid cartilages to approach or recede fi-om each other ; from the direction and slope of the articular surfaces outward ghding is accompanied by a forward and do\\Tiward movement. The two movements of gliding and rotation are associated, the gliding inwards being connected v>ith inward rotation, and the gliding outwards with outward rotation. The posterior crico-arytenoid ligaments Umit the forward movement of the arytenoid cartilages on the cricoid. Interior of the larynx (figs. 879, 880).—The cavity of the larynx (cavum laryngis) extends from its superior aperture to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. It is divided into two parts by the projection inwards of the true vocal cords, between which is a narrow triangular fissure or chink, the rima glottidis. Tlie portion of the cavity of the larynx above the true Ilyoiil bont Oulline of laryngeal saccul False vocal cord Venliicle. True local cord T/njro-arylenoid muscle Fig. SSI.—T.ni vnx, viewed from above. (Testut. True vocal cord' False vocal cord Lateral ylosso epiglotlic foUl Cornicultim laryngis Apex of superior horn of thy roid cartilage unciform cartilage Aryte7io-e2>iglottic fold Apex of grea t cornu of hyoid bone Cushion of epiglottis Middle glosso-epiglottic fold vocal cords, sometimes called the vestibule (vestibulum laryngis), is wide and triangular in shape, its base or anterior wall presenting, hoMever, about its centre the backward projection of the cushion of the epiglottis. It contains