OSTEOLOGY 278 maxillary air-sinuses and nasal ca-vaties. At birth the nasal cavities lie almost entirely between the orbits, and the lower border of the anterior nasal aperture is only a Uttle below the level of the orbital floor. "With the eruption of the milk- teeth there is an enlargement of the face and jaws, and these changes are still more marked after the second dentition. The skull grows rapidly from birth to the seventh year, by which time the foramen magnum and petrous parts of the temporals have reached their full size and the orbital cavities are only a Uttle smaller than those of the adult. Growth is slow from the seventh year until the approach of puberty, when a second period of activity takes place : this consists of an increase in all directions, but it is especially marked in the frontal and facial regions, where it is associated with the development of the air-sinuses. Obliteration of the sutures of the vault of the skull takes place as age advances. This process may commence between the ages of thirty and forty, and is first seen on the inner surface, and some ten years later on the outer sm-face of the skull. The dates given are, however, only approximate, as it is impossible to state with anything hke accuracy the time at which the sutures are closed. Obliteration usually occurs first in the posterior part of the sagittal suture, next in the coronal, and then in the lambdoid. In old age the skull generally becomes thinner and hghter, but in a small proportion of cases it increases in thickness and weight, o\ving to a hypertrophy of the inner table. The most striking feature of the old skull is the diminution in the size of the j aws consequent on the loss of the teeth and the absorption of the alveolar processes. This is associated with a marked reduction in the vertical measurement of the face and with an alteration in the angles of the mandible. Sexual Differences in the Skull Until the age of puberty there is Httle difference between the skull of the female and that of the male. The skull of an adult female is as a rule Ughter and smaller, and its cranial capacity about 10 per cent, less, than that of the male. Its walls are thinner and its muscular ridges less strongly marked; the glabella, supercihary ridges, and mastoid processes are less pronainent, and the corresponding air-sinuses are small or rudimentary. The upper margin of the orbit is sharp, the forehead vertical, the frontal and parietal eminences prominent, and the vault somewhat flattened. The contour of the face is more rounded, the facial bones are smoother, and the jaws and their contained teeth smaller. From what has been said it will be seen that more of the infantile characteristics are retained in the skull of the adult female than in that of the adult male. A well-marked male or female skull can easily be recognised as such, but in some cases the respective characteristics are so indistinct that the determination of the sex may be difficult or impossible. Craniology Skulls vary in size and shape, and the term a'aniohgy is appUed to the study of these variations. The size of a skull constitutes a good index of the develop- ment of the brain which it contained, and is most conveniently arrived at by ascertaining the capacity of the cranial cavity. This is accompUshed by fiUing the cavity with shot and measuring the contents in a graduated vessel. Skulls may be classified according to their capacities as follows : 1. Microcephalic, with a capacity of less tlian 1350 cubic centimetres— e.g. those of native AustraUans and Andaman Islanders. 2. Mesocephalic, with a capacity of from 1350 c.cm. to 1450 c.cm.—e.g. those of African negroes and Chinese. 3. Meyacephalic, vnih a capacity of over 1450 c.cm.—e.g. those of Europeans, Japanese, and Eskimos. In comparing the shape of one skull with that of another it is necessary to adopt some definite position in which the slcuU should be placed during the process of examination. It should be so placed that a fine carried through the lower margin of the orbit and upper margin of the external auditory meatus is in the horizontal plane. The norma) of one skull can then be compared with those of another, and the differences in contour and surface-form noted. Further, it is necessary that the various linear measurements used to determine the shape of the