LYMPHATICS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS 781 receive lymphatic trunks from the lateral and pre-aortic glands, while their efferents terminate in the receptaculum chj'-li. The lymphatic vessels of the walls of the abdomen and pelvis may be divided into'two sets, superficial and deep. The superficial vessels follow the course of the superficial blood-vessels and converge to the upper group of the superficial inguinal glands. Those derived from the integument of the front of the abdomen below the umbihcus follow the course of tlie superficial epigastric vessels, and those from the sides of the lumbar part of the abdominal waU pass along the crest of the Uium, with the superficial circumflex iliac vessels. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the gluteal region turn horizontally round the outer side of the buttock, and join the superficial inguinal glands. The deep vessels run alongside the principal blood-vessels. Those of the parietes of the pelvis, which accompany the gluteal, sciatic, and obturator vessels, foUow the course of the internal iliac artery, and ultimately join the lateral aortic glands. LympJiatic vessels of the perinceum and external genitals.—^The lymphatic vessels of the perinseum, of the integument of the penis, and of the scrotum Fig. 662.—^Lymphatics of stomach, &c. (Jamieson and Dobson.) Paracardial glands Might gastro-epi2>loic glands (or vulva), follow the course of the external pudic vessels, and terminate m the superficial inguinal glands. Those of the glans penis vel clitoridis terminate partly in the deep inguinal glands and partly in the external iliac glands. The visceral glands are associated with the branches of the coeliac axis, superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. Those related to the branches of the coeliac axis artery form three chains, coronary, hepatic, and splenic, which accompany the corresponding branches of the artery. The glands of the coronary chain (lymphoglandulse gastricse superiores) are divisible into three groups, viz. : (a) upper coronary, on the stem of the artery; (6) lower coronary, accompanying the descending branches of the artery along the cardiac half of the lesser curvature of the stomach, between the two layers of the small omentum ; and (c) paracardial ' outlying members of the coronary chain, disposed in a manner comparable to a chain of beads around the neck of the stomach' (Jamieson and Dobson).* T^e glands of the coronary chain receive their afferents from the stomach ; their efferents pass to the coeliac group of pre-aortic glands. * Lamoet, April 20 and 27,11)07.