879 STRUCTUEE OF THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES The short association fibres are situated immediately beneatli the grey substance of the cortex of the hemispheres, and connect together adjacent convolutions. The long association fibres include the following : (a) the uncinate fasciculus ; (6) the cingulum ; (c) the superior longitudinal fasciculus ; (cZ) the inferior longitudinal fasciculus ; (e) the perpendicular fasciculus ; (/) the occipito- frontal fasciculus ; and (gr) the fornix. (a) The uncinate fasciculus passes across the bottom of the Sylvian fissure, and connects the convolutions of the frontal lobe with the anterior end of the temporal lobe. (6) The cingulum is a band of white matter which is contained within the caUosal convolution. Commencing in front at the anterior perforated space, it passes forwards and upwards parallel with the rostrum, winds round the genu, runs in the convolution from before backwards, immediately above the corpus callosum, turns round its posterior extremity, and passes into the gyrus hippocampi, in the anterior extremity of which it ends. (c) The superior longitudinal fasciculus consists of fibres which pass backwards from the frontal lobe above the lenticular nucleus and island of Fig. 747.—Diagram showing principal systems of association fibres in the cerebrum. Reil; some of these terminate in the occipital lobe, while others pass down- wards and forwards into the temporal lobe. id) The inferior longitudinal fasciculus is a collection of fibres which connect the temporal and occipital lobes, running along the outer wall of the descending and posterior cornua of the lateral ventricle. (e) The perpendicular fasciculus runs vertically through the front part of the occipital lobe, and connects the inferior parietal lobule with the fourth temporal convolution. (/) The occipito-frontal fasciculus passes backwards from the frontal lobe along the outer border of the caudate nucleus, and on the mesial aspect of the corona radiata, and its fibres radiate in a fan-Uke manner and pass mto the occipital and temporal lobes on the outer aspect of the posterior and descending cornua. Dejerine regards the fibres of the tapetum as being derived from this lasciculus, and not from the corpus callosum. {g) The fornix connects the hippocampal convolution with the corpus albicans, and, by means of the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr, with the thalamus (see page 875). Through the fibres of the lyi-a it probably also unites the opposite hippocampal convolutions. The grey matter of the hemisphere is divided into : (1) that of the cerebral cortex, and (2) that of the nucleus caudatus, the nucleus lenticularis tne claustrum, and the nucleus amygdalse.