EMBRYOLOGY 126 Fig. 159. — Outer sui-face o£ cerebral hemisphere of human embryo of al)oul five months. Fronto-^jarietal operculu tii. that of the septum in the fissure between the hemispheres, and carrying blood- vessels with it, spreads between the two layers of the invagmated fold and forms the rudiment of the velum interpositum ; the margins of the velum become highly vascular and form the choroidal plexuses which for some months com- pletely fill the ventricular cavities. By the downward and forward growth of the posterior end of the vesicle to form the temporal lobe the choroidal fissure finally reaches from the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending horn of the ventricle. The portion of the cerebral wall immediately above the choroidal fissure forms what is termed the hifpocampal formation, and in the adult is represented by the supra-callosal gyrus, the hippocampus, and the gyrus dentatus. The outer surface of the hemisphere is at first smooth, but later it exhibits a number of elevations or convolutions, separated from each other by furrows or fissures. The fissures, most of which make their appearance during the sixth or seventh months of foetal life, are divided into (a) complete, which result from foldings of the entire thickness of the cerebral wall, and thus produce corresponding eminences in the ventricular cavity, and (6) incomplete, afiecting only the supUcial part of the wall, and therefore leaving no impressions m the ventricle The complete fissures are the hippocampal or dentate, the collateral and the anterior part of the calcarine, and these give rise respectively to the following eminences m the ventricle, viz. . the hippo- Smpus maior, the eminentia colkteraHs, and the calcar avis or hippocampus 3r ThT Sylvian fissure is sometimes described as a complete fissure, but, Srictly speaking, this is not correct. It first appears as a depression, the Sylvtan Fig. 160.—Median section of brain of human embryo of four months. (Marchand.) Choroidal fissure Gyrus dentatus Tcenia ihalami V Temporal operculum Sylvian fossa Frontal operculum Thalamus Post, commissure -'ffl^ Corpora quadrigemina Aqueduct of Sylvius Cms ccrehri Cerehellu m IV. ventricle Corpus callosum SeptumpeUucidum Ajiterior commi'SSure Lamina tcrmiiiaKs BhinencephaJon Optic chiasma Pituitary body III. ventricle Pons Medulla oblongata fossa, on the outer surface of the hemisphere (fig. 159); ^^f-'^^^^^^^ the Dosition of the corpus striatum, and its floor is moulded to form the is anrt S ReU The Yntimate connection which exists between the cortex of the island