SURFACE FORM OF MUSCLES OF UPPER EXTREMITY 559 above, but below, its tendon is the most in-ominent of the tendons on the front of the wrist, standing out, when the muscle is in action, as a sharp tense cord beneath the skin. The Flexor sublimis digUorum does not directly influence siu'face form. The position of its foiu' tendons on the front of the lower part of the forearm is indicated by an elongated deijression between the tendons of the Palmaris longus and the Flexor carpi ulnaris. Tlie Flexor carpi idnaris occupies a small part of the posterior siu-face of the forearm, and is separated from the Extensor and Supinator group, which occupies the greater part of this surface, by the ulnar furrow, produced by the subcutaneous i^osterior border of the ulna. Its tendon can be perceived along the ulnar border of the front of the forearm, and is most marked when the hand is flexed and adducted. The external group of muscles, consisting of the Brachio-radiaUs, the Extensors and Supinator brevis, occupies the outer, and a considerable portion of the posterior, surface of this region. It forms a fusiform mass, which is altogether on a higher level than that produced by the Pronator teres and Flexors. Its apex is between the Triceps and Brachialis anticus muscles some distance above the elbow-joint; it acquires its gi-eatest breadth opposite the external condyle, below which it shades off into a flattened surface. About the middle of the forearm it divides mto two longitudinal eminences which diverge from each other, leaving a triangular interval between them. 1'he outer of these eminences consists of the Brachio- radialis and the Extensores carpi radiaUs longior et brevior, and descends from the external condylar ridge in the direction of the styloid process of the radius. The inner consists of the Extensor commimis digitorum, the Extensor minimi digiti, and the Extensor carpi uhiaris ; it commences above as a tapering mass at the external condyle of the humerus ; above it is separated from the Anconeus by a well-marked furrow, and below, fi'om the Pronator teres and Flexor mass by the ulnar furrow. The only two muscles of this region which require special mention, as independently influencing surface form, are the Brachio- radialis and the Anconeus. The iimer border of the Brachio-radialis forms the outer boundary of the anticubital fossa. It commences as a rounded border above the condyle, and is longer, less obUque, and more prominent than the inner boundary. Lower do'wn the muscle forms a fuU fleshy mass on the outer side of the upper part of the forearm, and below tapers into a tendon, which may be traced to the styloid jwocess of the radius. The Ancone^ts presents a distinct and characteristic surface form in the shape of a tri- angular, slightly elevated area, immediately external to the subcutaneous posterior surface of the olecranon, and differentiated from the common Extensor group by an oblique depres- sion. The upper angle of the triangle corresponds to the external condyle, and is marked by a depression or dimple in this situation. In the interval, caused by the divergence from each other of the two masses into which the Extensor and Supinator group is divided at the lower part of the forearm, an oblique elongated eminence is seen, caused by the emergence of two of the Extensors of the thumb from their deep origin at the back of the forearm. This eminence, full above, flattened and j^artially subdivided below, rims dowiiwards and outwards over the back and outer surface of the radius to the outer side of the wrist-joint, where it forms a ridge, especially marked when the thumb is extended, and passing onwards to the posterior aspect of the thumb. The tendons of most of the Extensor muscles are to be seen and felt at the level of the wrist-joint. Most externally are those of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the Extensor brevis polUcis, forming a vertical ridge over the outer side of the joint, from the styloid process of the radius to the thumb. Internal to this is the oblique ridge produced by the tendon of the Extensor longus polhcis, very noticeable when the muscle is in action. The Extensor carpi radiaUs longior is scarcely to be felt, but the Extensor carpi radialis brevior can be perceived as a vertical ridge emerging from under the ulnar border of the tendon of the Extensor longus pollicis, when the hand is forcibly extended at the WTist. Internal to this the tendons of the Extensor indicis. Extensor communis digitoiiim, and Extensor minimi digiti can be felt; the last being separated from those of the Extensor commimis by a sUght furrow. The muscles of the hand are principally concerned, as far as regards surface form, in producing the thenar and hypothenar eminences, and cannot be individually distin- guished on the suiiace. The thenar eminence is larger and rounder than the hypothenar, which presents a long, narrow eminence along the ulnar side of the hand. When the Palmaris brevis is in action it produces a wrinklinsj of the skin over the hypothenar eminence, and a dimple on the ulnar border of the hand. On the back of the hand the Dorsal inter- ossei produce elongated swellmgs between the metacarpal bones. When the thumb is closely adducted to the hand, the First dorsal interosseous (Abductor mdicis) forms a prominent fusiform bulging ; the other Interossei are not so marked. The skin over the inner side and front of the forearm is thin, smooth, and sensitive ; it contains few hairs and many sweat-glands. Over the outer side and back of the arm and forearm it is thicker, denser, and less sensitive ; it contains more hairs and fewer sweat-glands. Over the olecranon the cuticle is thick and rough ; the skin is loosely connected to the underlying tissues, and transversely wi'inkled when the forearm is extended. At the front of the wrist, the skin presents three transverse furrows, which correspond from above do^vnwards to the position of the styloid process of the ulna, the -wrist- joint, and the mid-carpal joint respectively. Tlie skin of the palm of the hand differs