1211 VAS DEFERENS Organ of Oiraldes.—This term is applied to a small collection of convoluted tulmles. situated in front of the lower part of the cord above the globus major of the epididymis. These tubes are lined with columnar ciliated epithelium, and probably represent the remains of a part of the Wolffian body. Vesictjl^ Seminales (fig. 1004) The vesiculae seminales are two lobulated membranous pouches, placed between the base of the bladder and the rectum, serving as reservoirs for the semen, and secreting a fluid to be added to the secretion of the testes. Eacli sac is somewhat jiyramidal in form, the broad end being directed backwards, upwards and outwards. It measures usually about two and a half inches in length, but varies in size, not only in different individuals, but also in the same individual on the two sides. The anterior surface is in contact with the base of the bladder, extending from near the termination of the ureter to the base of the prostate gland. The posterior siirface rests upon the rectum, from which it is separated by the rccto-vesical fascia. Their upper extremities diverge from each other, and are separated from the bladder by the vas deferens Fig. 1004.—Base of the bladder with the vesiculse seminales. and the lower end of the ureter, and are partly covered by peritoneum. Their lower extremities are pointed, and converge towards the base of the prostate gland, where each joins with the corresponding vas deferens to form the ejaculatory duct. Along the inner margin of each vesicle runs the enlarged and tortuous vas deferens. Each vesicle consists of a single tube, coiled upon itself, and givuig off" several irregular csecal diverticula ; the separate coils, as well as the diverticula are connected together by fibrous tissue. When uncoiled, the tube is about the diameter of a quill, and varies in length from four to six inches ; it termi- nates posteriorly in a cul-de-sac ; its anterior extremity becomes constricted into a narrow straight duct, which joins with the corresponding vas deferens to form the ejaculatory duct. structure —The vesicute seminales are composed of three coats : an external or areolar coat: a middle or muscular coat, thinner than in the vas deferens and arranged in two layers, an outer longitudinal and inner circular; an internal or rmicous coat, which is pale, ot a whiti.sh-brown colour, and presents a delicate reticular structure. The epithelium is columnar, and, in the diverticula, goblet-cells are present, the secretion of which increases the bulk of the seminal fluid.