THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA 813 derived from the opposite pyramid, forming what is termed the motor or pyramidal decussation (decussatio pyi-amidum). Having crossed the middle line, they pass down in the posterior part of the lateral column as the crossed pyramidal tract. The remaining fibres—i.e. those which occupy the outer part of tlie pyramid—do not cross the middle line, but are carried downwards as the direct pyramidal tract (fig. 688) into the anterior column of the same side. The greater part of the basis bundle of the anterior column of the cord is contmued upwards through the medulla oblongata as a strand, which is termed the posterior longittidinal fasciculus. The lateral area (fig. 689) is limited in front by the antero-lateral sulcus and the roots of the hypoglossal nerve, and behmd by the postero-lateral sulcus and the roots of the spmal accessory, vagus, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. Its upper part consists of a prominent oval mass which is named the olivary body, while its lower part is of tlie same width as the lateral column of the Fig. 689.—Hind- and mid-brains ; postero-lateral view. External geniculate body Eleventh nerve^ cord, and appears on the surface to be a direct continuation of it. As a matter of fact, only a portion of the lateral column is continued upwards into this area, for the crossed pyramidal tract passes into the pyramid of the opposite side, and the direct or ascending cerebellar tract is carried into the restiform body in the posterior area. The remainder of the lateral column, which consists chiefly of the basis bundle and the tract of Gowers, can be traced into the lateral area. Most of these fibres dip beneath the olivary body and disappear from the surface ; but a small strand remains suiierficial, and passes up between the olivary body and the postero-lateral sulcus. At the upper end of this strand is a depression or fossa, in which the auditor}' nerve is seen. The olivary body (oliva) is situated on tiie outer side of the pjrramid, TOm which it is separated by the antero-lateral or pre-olivary sulcus, and the fibres of the hypoglossal nerve. Behind, it is separated from the postero- lateral sulcus by the small superficial strand of the lateral column already referred to. It measures about half an inch in lengtli, and between its upper end and the pons there is a slight depression to which tlie roots of the seventh