468 MYOLOGY The Masseter (fig. 486) is a short, thick muscle, somewhat quadrilateral in form, consisting of two portions, superficial and deep. The superficial portion. the larger, arises by a thick, tendinous aponeurosis from the malar process of the maxilla, and from the anterior two-thirds of the lower border of tlic zygomatic arch : its fibres pass downwards and backwards, to be inserted inio tiae angle and lower half of the outer surface of the ramus of the mandible. The deep portion is much smaller, and more muscular in texture ; it arises from the posterior third of the lower border and the whole of the inner surface of the zygomatic arch ; its fibres pass dowwards and forwards, to be inserted into the upper half of the ramus and the outer surface of the coronoid process of the mandible. The deep portion of the muscle is partly concealed, in front, by the superficial portion ; behind, it is covered by the parotid gland. The fibres of the two portions are continuous at their insertion. Relations.—The Masseter is in relation by its superficial sur face -with the integument, Platysma, Risorius, Zygomatici, the parotid gland and socia parotidis, and with Steoson's duct, and the branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial vessels which cross it. By its deep surface, it is in relation with the insertion of the Temporal muscle, the Fig. 487.—The Temporal muscle ; the zygoma and Masseter have been removed. ramus of the mandible, the Buccinator and the long buccal nerve from which it is separated by a mass of fat. The masseteric nerve and artery enter it on its deep surface. Its posterior margin is overlapped by the parotid gland. Its arUerior margiv. which projects over the Buccinator muscle, is crossed below by the faoial vein. The temporal fascia covers the Temporal muscle. It is a strong, fibrous investment, covered, on its outer surface, by the Attrahens and Attollens auriculam muscles, the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontaUs, and by part of the Orbicularis palpebrarum. The temporal vessels and tlio auriculo-temporal nerve cross it from below upwards. Above, it is a single layer, attached to the entire extent of the upper temporal ridge : but below, where it is attached to the zygoma, it consists of two layers, one of which is inserted into the outer, and the otlier mto the inner border of the zygomatic arch. A small quantity of fat, the orbital branch of the temporal artery, and a filament from the orbital or temporo-malar brancli ot the superior maxillary nerve, are contained between these two layers. It affords attachment by its inner surface to the superficial fibres of the Temporal muscle.