METACARPUS 317 Fig. 374.—^The third metacarpal. (Left.) m m The fourth metacarpal bone (fig. 375) is shorter and smaller than the preceding. The carpal extremity is small and quadrilateral; its superior surface presents two facets, a large one externally for articulation with the unciform and a small one internally for the os magnum. On the radial side are two oval facets, for articulation with the third metacarpal; and on the ulnar side, a single concave facet, for the fifth metacarpal. The fifth metacarpal bone (fig. 376) presents on its carpal extremity one facet on its superior surface, which is concavo-convex, and articulates with the unciform, and one on its radial side, which articulates with the fourtli meta- carpal. On its ulnar side is a prominent tubercle for the insertion of the tendon of the Extensor carpi ulnaris. The dorsal surface of the shaft is marked by an oblique ridge, which extends from near the ulnar side of the upper extrem- ity to the radial side of the lower. The outer division of this surface serves for the attachment of the Fourth dorsal interosseous muscle ; the inner division is smooth, triangular, and covered by the Extensor tendons of the little finger. Articulations.—Besides their phalan- geal articulations, the metacarpal bones articulate as follows : the first with the trapezium; the second with the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum and third metacarpal; the third with the os magnum and second and fourth metacarpals ; the fourth with the os magnum, unci- form, and third and fifth metacarpals ; and the fifth with the unciform and fourth metacarpal. Stijloiil process For 2nd meta- carpal For For ith OS magnum metacarpal Fig. 375.—The fourth metacarpal. (Left.) Fur OS ^ mugmcm -^"r 3ril metacarpal Fig. 376.—The fifth metacarpal. (Left.) For r,th For vieta- unciform cardial For 4th viefacarjinl The first has no lateral facets on its carpal extremity ; the second has no lateral facet on its radial, but one on its ulnar side ; the third has one on its radial and two on its ulnar side ; the fourth has two on its radial and one on its idnar side ; aud^the fifth has one on its radial side only.