620 ANGIOLOGY righl side, it is in relation with the superior vena cava and right auricle, the former lying partly behind it; on the left side, with the pulmonary artery. Branches.—The only branches of the ascending aorta are the coronary arteries which supply the heart. They are two in number, right and left, and arise near the commencement of the aorta immediately above the attached margins of the semilunar valves. The right coronary artery (a. coronaria [cordis] dextra), about the size of a crow's quill, arises from the anterior sinus of Valsalva. It passes forwards between the pulmonary artery and the right auricular appendix, then runs obliquely to the right side, in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, and, curving around the right border of the heart, runs along the posterior surface as far as the posterior interventricular groove, where it divides into two branches. One of these (transverse) continues onwards in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, and anastomoses with the left coronary ; the other (descending) courses along the posterior interventricular furrow, supplies branches to both ventricles and to the septum, and anastomoses at the apex of the heart with the descending branches of the left coronary. This vessel sends a large branch (marginal) along the thin margin of the right ventricle to the apex, and from this numerous small branches are given to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the ventricle. It also gives a branch close to its origin (right auricular), which passes upwards between the right auricle and the aorta, and distributes twigs to the right auricle, the auricular septum, the aorta, and the pulmonary artery. The left coronary artery (a. coronaria [cordis] sinistra), larger than the former, arises from the left posterior sinus of Valsalva ; it passes forwards between the pulmonary artery and the left auricular appendix, and divides into two branches. Of these, one (transverse) runs transversely outwards in the left auriculo-ventricular groove, and winds around the left border of the heart to the posterior surface, where it anastomoses with the transverse branch of the right coronary; the other (descending) passes along the anterior interventricular groove to the apex of the heart, where it anastomoses with the descending branch of the right coronary. The left coronary supplies the left auricle and its appendix, gives branches to both ventricles, and numerous twigs to the pulmonary artery and commencement of the aorta. In addition to the already mentioned anastomosis in the auriculo-ventricular and interventricular grooves there is a free anastomosis between the minute branches of the two coronary arteries in the substance of the heart. Peculiarities.—These vessels occasionally arise by a common trunk, or their numljer may be increased to three, the additional branch being of small size. More rarelj', there are two additional branches. Applied Anatomy.—The sudden blocking of a coronary artery by an embolus, or its more gradual obstruction by arterial disease or thrombosis, is a common cause of sudden death in persons past middle age. If the obstruction to the passage of blood is incomplete, true angina pectoris may occur. In this condition the patient is suddenly seized A^ith a spasm of agonising pain in the prsecordial region and do^vn the left arm, together with an indescribable sense of anguish. He may die in such an attack, or succumb a few hours or days later from heart failure, or survive a number of attacks. Arch of thk Aorta The arch of the aorta (arcus aortae) (fig. 572) begins at the upper border of the second chondro-stcrnal articulation of the right side, and runs at first upwards, backwards, and to the left in front of the trachea ; it is tlien directed backwards on the left side of the trachea, and finally passes dowTi- warcls on the left side of the body of the fourth thoracic vertebra, at the lower border of which it becomes continuous with the desceiiding aorta. It thus forms two curvatures : one with its convexity upwards, the other with its convexity forwards and to the left. Its upper border is usually about an inch below the upper margin of the sternum. Relations.—The arch of the aorta is covered in front by the pleurro and anterior margins of the lungs, and by the remains of the thymus gland. As the vessel runs backwards its left side is in contact with the left lung and pleura. Passing down- wards on the left side of this part of the arch are four nerves—in order from before