582 MYOLOGY Relations.—The Gastrocnemius is in relation by its auperjicial surface with the fascia of the leg. which separates it from the external saphenous vein and nerve; by its deep surface with tho posterior ligauiont of the knee-joint, the Popliteus, Soleus, Plantaris, popliteal vessels, and internal popliteal nerve. Heneath the tendon of tho inner head is a synovial bursa, ^^hich, in some cases, communicates with the cavity of the knee-joint. The tendon of tho outer head sometimes contains a sesamoid fibro-cartilage or bone, where it plays over the corresponding outer condyle ; and one is occasionally found in the tendon of the inner head. The Soleus is a broad flat muscle situated immediately beneath the Gastro- cnemius. It arises by tendinous fibres from the back part of the head of the fibula, and from the upper third of the posterior surface of its shaft; from tlie oblique line of the tibia, and from the middle thu-d of its internal border ; some fibres also arise from a tendinous arch placed between the tibial and fibular origins of the muscle, beneath which the popliteal vessels and internal popliteal . nerve run. The fibres pass backwards to an aponeurosis which covers the posterior surface of the muscle, and this, gradually becoming thicker and narrower, joins with the tendon of the Gastrocnemius, and forms vnth it the tendo AchiUis. Relations.—By its superficial surface it is in relation with the Gastrocnemius and Plantaris ; by its deep surface, with the Flexor longus digitorum, Flexor longus hallucis, Tibiahs posticus, and posterior tibial vessels and nerve, from which it is separated by the transverse intermuscular septum or deep transverse fascia of the leg. The tendo AchiUis (tendo calcaneus), the common tendon of the Gastro- cnemius and Soleus, is the thickest and strongest tendon in the body. It is about six inches in length, and commences near the middle of the leg, but receives fleshy fibres on its anterior surface, almost to its lower end. Gradu- ally becoming contracted below, it is inserted mto the middle part of the posterior surface of the os calcis, a synovial bursa being mterposed between the tendon and the upper part of this surface. The tendon spreads out some- what at its lower end, so that its narrowest part is about an mch and a half above its insertion. Tlie tendon is covered by the fascia and the integument, and is separated from the deep muscles and vessels by a considerable interval filled up with areolar and adipose tissue. Along its outer side, but superficial to it, is the external saphenous vein. The Plantaris is an extremely diminutive muscle, placed between the Gastrocnemius and Soleus, and remarkable for its long and deUcate tendon. It arises from the lower part of the outer prolongation of the Imea aspera, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. It forms a small fusuorm beUy, about tliree or four inches in length, terminatmg m a long slender tendon which crosses obliquely between the two muscles of the calf, and runs along the inner border "of the tendo AchiUis, to be inserted ^^;ith it mto tlie posterior part of the os calcis. This muscle is sometimes double, and at other times wantmg. OccasionaUy, its tendon is lost in the mternal annular ligament, or in the fascia of the leg. i i „ Nerves.—The Gastrocnemius is supphed by the first and second sacral nerves and the Plantaris by the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves, through the^intmra^poplileal-. The Soleus is supplied by the fii'st and second sacral nerves •^a-^-^Silwigh thejfit«^^ , , , . -i,^ -^^A&t-ThTmisdes of the calf are the chief extensors of the foot at the ankle-joint. They possess considerable power, and are constantly called into use in standing, walkiti^, dancing, and leaping ; hence the large size they usua 3 present. In walking, these muscles draw powerfully upon the os calcis lais g the heel from the ground ; the body being thus supported on the raised ^oot. t k opposite limb can be carried forwards. In standing, the Soleus, taking it^ fixtd pomt from below, steadies the leg upon the foot and prevents tho bod} irom falUng forwards, to which there is"a constant tendency from the snperincun ber^ w3. The Gastrocnemius, acting from below, serves to Aex the femur upon the°tibia, assisted by the Popliteus. The Plantaris is tlie ^'^dimen* muscle which in some of the lower ammals is contmued inserted into the plantar fascia. In man it is an accessory extending the ankle if the foot be free, or bendmg the knee if the foot be hxert.