MYOLOGY 488 VIII. Lateral Vertebral Region (lig. 496) Scalenus anticus. Scalenus medius. Scalenus posticus. u J Scalenus anticus (m. scalenus anterior) is a cone-shaped muscle situated deeply at the side of the nock, behind the Sterno-mastoid. It arises trom tlic anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third fourth btth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and descending, almost vertically is'insert«d by a narrow, flat tendon mto the scalene tubercle on the inner border of the hrst rib, and also into the upper surface of the rib between the grooves for the subclavian artery and vein. The lower part of this muscle .separates the subclavian artery and vein : the latter being in front, and the former with the brachial plexus, behind. Relations.—/?! fro7it of the Scalenus anticus are the clavicle, the Subclavius, Sterno- mastoid, and Omo-hyoid muscles, the transversaUs coUi, the suprascapular and ascending cervical arteries, the subclavian vein, and the phrenic nerve. By its posterior surface it IS m relation with the cords of the brachial plexus, the subclavian artery, and the pleura which separate it from the Scalenus medius. It is separated from the Longus colh, on the inner side, by the vertebral artery. On the anterior tubercles of the traasverse processes of the cervical vertebra;, between the attachments of the Scalenus anticus and Longus colU, lies the ascending cervical branch of the inferior thyroid artery. The Scalenus medius (m. scalenus medius), the largest and longest of the three Scaleni, arises from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower six cervical vertebrae, and descending along the side of the vertebral column, is inserted by a broad attachment into the upper suiiace of the liist rib, behind the groove for the subclavian artery, as far back as the tubercle. It is separated from the Scalenus anticus by the subclavian artery below, and the cervical nerves above. The posterior thoracic nerve, or nerve of Bell, is formed in the substance of the Scalenus medius and emerges from it. The nerve to the Rhomboids also pierces it. Relations.—The Scalenus medius is in relation by its anterior surface with the Sterno- mastoid ; it is crossed by the clavicle, the Omo-hyoid muscle, subclavian artery, and the cervical nerves. To its outer side are the Levator anguh scapulae and the Scalenus posticus. The Scalenus posticus (m. scalenus posterior), the smallest of the three Scaleni, arises, by two or three separate tendons, from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower two or three cervical vertebrae, and diminishing as it descends, is inserted by a thin tendon into the outer surface of the second rib, behind the attachment of the Serratus magnus. This is the most deeply placed of the three Scaleni, and is occasionally blended with the Scalenus medius. Nerves.—The Scaleni are supplied by branches from the second to the seventh cervical nerves. Actions.—The Scaleni muscles, when they take their fixed points from above, elevate the first and second ribs, and are, therefore, inspiratory muscles. \\'Tien they take their fixed points from below, they bend the spinal column to one or other side. If the muscles of both sides act, lateral movemcut is prevented, but the spine is slightly flexed. Surface Form.—The muscles in the neck, with the exception of the Platj^mn, are invested by the deep cervical fascia. The Plat;/sma does not influence surface form unless it is in action, when it produces -wrinkling of the skin of the neck, which is thro>\ii into obUque ridges parallel with tho fasciculi of the muscle. The Sterno-mastoid is the most important muscle of the neck as regards its surface form. If the muscle be put inlo action by drawing the chin downwards and to the opposite shoulder, its surface form will be plainly outlined. The sternal origin will stand out as a sharply delincd ridge, while the clavicular origin will jireseut a Hatter and less prominent outline. The Hesliy middle portion will appear as an oblique roll or elevation, with a thick rounded anterior border gradually becoming less marked above. A\'hen the muscle is at rest its anterior border is still visible, forming an oblique rounded ridge, terminating below in the sharp outline of the sternal head. The posterior border of the muscle does not show above