MYOLOGY 512 low as the testicle, where a few are inserted into the tunica vaginalis. These loops are united together by areolar tissue, and form a thin covering over the cord and testis, the cremasteric fascia. Tlie fibres ascend along the inner side of the cord, and are inserted by a small pointed tendon into the spine and crest of the pubis and into the front of the sheath of the Rectus. It will be observed that the origin and insertion of the Cremaster are precisely similar to those of the lower fibres of the Internal oblique. Tiiis fact is explained by the manner in which the testis and cord are invested by this muscle. At an early period of foetal life the testis is placed at the lower and back part of the abdominal cavity, but during its descent towards the scrotum, which takes place before birth, it carries on it some fibres from ' the lower part of the muscle, and these accompany the testis and cord into the scrotum. The Transversalis abdominis (m. transversus abdominis) (fig. 506), so called from the direction of its fibres, is the most internal of the flat muscles of the abdomen, being placed immediately beneath the Internal oblique. It arises by fleshy fibres from the outer third of Poupart's ligament, from the Fig. 507.—The ligaments of Henle and Hesselbach, seen from in front. (Modified from Braune.) Semilunar fold of Douglas Transversalis Bectus abdominis Deep epi- gastric artery and vein Internal oblique Ligament of Henle Ligament of Hesselbach anterior three-fourths of the inner lip of the crest of the ilmm from the inner surfaces of the cartilages of the lower six ribs, interdigitatmg with the Diaphragm, and from the lumbar aponeurosis, which may be regarded as tlie posterim- aponeurosis of the muscle, and whicb has been seen to divide nto three lamellae (see page 493). The muscle terminates in front m a broad aponeurosis the lowe? fibres of which curve down^^•ards and inwards and areTserter together with those of the Internal oblique, into the crest of the pubis and pectineal line, forming what is luiOMii as the conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis. Throughout the res of its extent the aponeurosis passes horizontally mwards and is inserted mtP Ihe linea alba • its upper three-fourths passing behind the Rectus niuscle, binding with thfposterior lamella of the"^ Internal oblique ; its lower fourth ^T/J S^otef ^e'JSon'olTh^ Internal oblique and Transversalis. is niai^^^^^^