755 VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY Fig. 644.—External or short saphenous vein. The valves in the deep veins are very numerous. The popliteal vein (v. poplitea) is formed by the junction of the ven£e comites of the anterior and jjosterior tibial arteries at tlie lower border of the Popliteus muscle ; it ascends through the popliteal space to the tendinous aperture in the Adductor magnus, where it becomes the femoral vein. In the lower part of its course it is placed internal to the artery ; between the heads of the Gastrocnemius it is superficial to that vessel; but above the knee-joint, it is close to its outer side. It receives tributaries corresponding to the branches of the popliteal artery, and it also receives the external saphenous vein. The valves in this vein are usually four in number. The femoral vein (v. femoralis) accompanies the femoral artery through the upper two-thirds of the thigh. In the lower part of its course it lies external to the artery ; higher up, it is behind it; and at Poupart's ligament, it lies to its imier side, and on the same plane. It receives numerous muscular tributaries, and about an inch and a half below Poupart's liga- ment it is joined by the profunda femoris : near its termmation it is joined by the internal saphenous vein. The valves in the femoral vein are three in number. The profunda femoris vein (v. profunda femoris) receives tributaries corresponding to the per- forating branches of the profunda artery, and , through these estabhshes communications with the pophteal vein below and the sciatic vein above. It also receives the internal and external circumflex vems. The external iliac vein (v. iliaca externa) (fig. 645) commences at the termmation of the femoral, beneathPoupart'sligament, and, passing upwards along the brim of the pelvis, terminates opposite the sacro-Uiac articulation, by uniting with the internal iliac to form the common iliac vein. On the right side, it lies at fii'st along the inner side of the external Uiac artery ; but, as it passes upwards, gradually inclines behind it. On the left side, it lies altogether on the inner side of the artery. It receives, immediately above Poupart's ligament, the deep epigastric and deep circumflex iliac veins, and a small pubic vein corresponding to the pubic branch of the obturator artery. It frequently contains one, sometimes two, valves. Tributaries.—The external iliac vem receives the deep epigastric, deep circumflex iliac, and pubic veins. The deep epigastric vein (v. epigastrica inferior) IS formed by the imion of the venffi comites of the deep epigastric artery, which communicate above mth. the superior epigastric vein ; it joins the external iliac about half an inch above Poupart's hgament. The deep circumflex iliac vein (v. circumflexa ilium profunda) is formed by the union of the venas comites of the deep circumflex iliac artery, and joins the external Uiac vein about three-quarters of an inch above Poupart's ligament. the picbic vein communicates with the obturator vem in the th}Toid foramen, and ascends on the back of the pubis to the external ihac vein. ■the internal iliac vein (v. hypogastrica) (fig. 645) commences near the pper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, passes upwards behind of t^ 1 ^^^^^ ^^^^ °* internal iliac artery and, at the brim pelvis, joins with the external iliac to form the common iliac vein. 3 c 2