421 CARPO-METACARPAL ARTICULATIONS Fig. 460.—Articulations of the phalanges. Metacarpo-plialangeal articulatiun Lateral ligament t lic trapezoid : the third metacarpal receives two, one from the trapezoid, md oTfiom the OS magnum; the fourth tM^o, one rom the os magnum : d one from the uncifonn ; the fifth receives a smgle fasciculus from the uacifoma, and tliis is continuous with a shnilar ligament on the palmar surface f'ormino- an incomplete capsule. TiiePalma? Ligaments have a somewhat similar arrangement on the nxlmar surface, with the exception of those of the third metacarpal, which are hree in number, an external one from the trapezium situated above the .lieath of the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis ; a middle one from the os magnum ; and an internal one from the unciform. The Interosseous Ligaments consist of short, thick fibres, which are limited to one part of the carpo-metacarpal articulation; they connect the contiguous inferior angles of the os magnum and unciform with the adjacent surfaces of the third and fourth meta- carpal bones. The Synovial Mem- brane is frequently a continuation of that between the two rows of carpal bones. Occa- sionally, the articulation of the unciform with the fourth and fifth meta- carpal bones has a sepa- rate synovial membrane. The synovial mem- branes of the wrist and carpus (fig. 459) are thus seen to be five in number. The first, the membrana sacci/ormis, passes from the lower end of the ulna to the sigmoid cavity of the radius, and lines the upper surface of the interarticular fibro-carti- lage. The second passes from the lower end of the radius and inter- articular fibro-cartilage above, to the bones of the first row below. The third, the most extensive, passes between the con- tiguous margins of the tw'o rows of carpal bones, and sometimes, in the event of one of the inter- osseous hgaments bemg absent, between the bones of the second row to the carpal extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones. The fourth, from the margm of the trapezium to the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The fifth, between the adjacent margins of the cuneiform and pisiforni bones". Occasionally the carpo-metacarpal joints have a separate synovial membrane (see page 419). Movements.—The movements permitted in the carpo-metacarpal articulations of the fingers are hmited to shght gUding of the articular surfaces upon each other, the extent of which varies in the different joints. Thus the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the Uttle finger is most movable, then that of the ring-finger; the metacarpal bones of the index and middle fingers are almost immovable. Phalangeal artictilations