426 SYNDESMOLOGY Fig. 464.- —Vertical section through hip-joint. (Henle.; Rectus muscle Cotyloid ligament \ Cafsular ligament forms a complete circle, which closely surrounds the head of the femur and assists in holding it in its place. It is triangular on section, its base being attached to the margin of the acetabulum, and its opposite edge being free and sharp. Its two surfaces are invested by synovial membrane, the external one being in contact with the capsular ligament, the internal one being inclined inwards so as to narrow tlie acetabulum, and embrace the cartilaginous surface of the head of the femur. It is much thicker above and behind than below and in front, and consists of close compact fibres, which arise from different points of the circumference of the acetabulum, and interlace with each other at very acute angles. The Transverse Ligament (lig. transversum acetabuli) Ls in reahty a portion of the cotyloid ligament, tliough differing from it in having no cartilage cells among its fibres. It consists of strong, flattened fibres, which cross the notch at the lower part of the acetabulum, and convert it mto a foramen. Thus an interval is left beneath the ligament for the passage of nutrient vessels to the joint. The Synovial Membrane is very extensive. Commencing at the margin of the cartilaginous surface of the head of the femur, it covers aU that portion of the neck which is con- tained within the joint; from the neck it is reflected on the internal surface of the cap- sular ligament, covers both surfaces of the cotyloid liga- ment and the mass of fat con- tained m the depression at the bottom of the acetabulum, and is prolonged in the form of a tubular sheath around the ligamentum teres as far as the head of the femur. It sometimes communicates through a hole in the capsular ligament between the inner band of the Y-shaped liga- ment and the pubo-femoral ligament with a bursa situated on the under sm-face of the Ilio-psoas. The Muscles in relation with the joint are, in front, the Psoas and Ihacus, separated from the capsular hgameut by a sjTiovial bursa ; above, the reflected head of the Rectus and Gluteus niinimus, the latter being closely adherent to the capsule; internally, the Obturator externus and Pectineus : behind, the Pyriformis, Gemellus superior. Obturator internus. Gemellus inferior. Obturator externus, and Quadratus femoris (fig. 465). The Arleries supplying the joint are derived from the obturator, sciatic, internal circumflex, and gluteal. . . The Nerves are articular branches from the sacral plexus, great sciatic, obturator, accessory obturator, and a filament from the branch of the anterior crural supplying the Rectus. . Movements.—The movements of the hip are very extensive, and consist oi fiexion, extension, adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. The length of the neck of the femur and its inchnations to the shaft have the effect of converting the angular movements of flexion, extension, adduction, and abduction partially into rotatory movements in the joint. Thus when the thigli is flexed or extended, the head of the femur, on account of the inward inchnation of the neck, rotates within the acetabulum with only a shght amount of guni'ii^ to and fro. The forward slope of the neck similarly affects the movements of adduc- tion and abduction. Conversely rotation of the thigh which is permitted by the Lig. teres Obturator membrane