288 OSTEOLOGY The anterior surface is included between the superior and anterior borders. Its outer part looks upwards, and is continuous witii the superior surface of the flattened portion; it is smootli, convex, and nearly subcutaneous, being covered only by the Platysma. Its inner portion is divided by a narrow- subcutaneous area into two parts : a lower, elliptical in form, and directed forwards, for tlie attachment of the Pectoralis major ; and an upper, for the attachment of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid. The posterior or cervical surface is smooth, and looks backwards towards tlie root of the neck. It is limited, above, by the superior border; below, by the subclavian border ; internally, by the margin of the sternal extremity ; and externally, by the conoid tubercle. It is concave from within outwards, and is in relation, by its lower part, with the suprascapular vessels. This surface, at the junction of the inner and outer curves, is also in close relation ^\^th the bracliial plexus of nerves and the subclavian vessels. It gives attachment, near the sternal extremity, to part of the Sterno-hyoid; and presents, near the middle, a foramen, directed obliquely outwards, which transmits the cliief nutrient arterj'^ of the bone. Sometimes there are two foramina on the posterior surface, or one on the posterior and another on the inferior surface. The inferior or subclavian surface is bounded, in front, by the anterior border ; beliind, by the subclavian border. It is narrow internally, but gradually increases in width externally, and is con- tinuous with the imder surface of the flat portion. On its inner part is a broad rough surface, the rhomboid impression (tuberositas costalis), rather more than an inch in length, for the attachment of the .CQsto-cl^yicular or rhomboid ^ liga^^ient. The rest of this surface is occupied by a groove, broad and smooth externally, narrow and more uneven internally, which gives attachment to the Subclavius ; ^the cost^ora^Qjdmem^^ wliich splits to enclose the muscle, - is ^ttachecLio^tljejji^gu^ Not infrequently this groove is ""^iobdividedlotigiHidma^ line which gives attachment to the intermuscular septum of the Subclavius. The inner or sternal extremity (extremitas stemalis) of the clavicle is triangular in form, directed inwards, and a little downwards and forwards; it presents an articular facet, concave from before backwards, convex from above downwards, which articulates with the manubrium sterni tlu'ough the inter- vention of an interarticular fibro-cartilage. The lower part of the facet is carried outwards on the inferior surface of the bone as a small semi-oval area wMch articulates with the cartilage of the first rib. The circumference of the articular surface is rough, for the attachment of numerous ligaments; the upper angle gives attachment to the interarticular fibro-cartilage. The outer or acromial extremity (extremitas acromialis), directed outwards and forwards, presents a small, flattened, oval facet (facies articularis acromiahs) which looks obliquely downwards, for articulation with the acromion process of the scapula. The circumference of the articular facet is rough, especially above, for the attachment of the acromio-clavicular ligaments. In the female, the clavicle is generally shorter, tliinner, less curved, and smoother than in the male. In those persons wlio perform considerable manual labour it becomes thicker and more curved, and its ridges for muscular attachment are prominently marked. Structure.—The clavicle consists of cancellous tissue, invested in a compact layei-, which is much thicker in the middle than at the extremities of the bone, jjj^^^^jj^gificadon.—The cl^ivicle begins to ossify.before auv. other bgac in the bo_dv; \ inn^siHecrirom two centres—viz. a primary centre for the shaft and outer end, ) which appears during the fifth or sixth week of fojtal life, and a secondary centred* for the sternal end, which makes its appearance about the eighteenth or twentieth|| year, and unites with the rest of the bone about the twenty-fifth year. Surface Form.—'\:\\e clavicle can be felt throughout its entire length. At the inner end, the enlarged sternal extremity, where the bone projects above the upper margni o\ the sternum, can be felt, forming with the sternum and the rounded tendon of the bterno- mastoid a v-shaped notch, the prestenial notch. Passing outwards, the shaft of the bone can be defined immediately under the skin, with its convexity forwa.-ds in the inner two- thirds ; the surface is partially obscured above and below by the attachments of the Sterno- mastoid and Pectoralis major. In the outer third it is concave forwai-ds, "•>"''^^es externally in a somewhat enlarged extremity which articulates with the acromion process of the scapula. The direction of the clavicle is almost, if not quite, horizontal when Un-