ANGIOLOGY 600 lower to the ensiform cartilage. On either side of the ascending aorta it sends upwards a diverticulum : the one on the left side, somewhat conical in shape, passes upwards and outwards, between the arcli of the aorta and the pulmonary artery, as far as the obliterated ductus arteriosus, where it terminates in a cajcal extremity which is attaclied by loose connective tissue to the obliterated duct. The one on the right side passes upwards and to the right, between the ascending aorta and vena cava superior, and also terminates in a blind extremity. The vessels receiving fibrous prolongations from this membrane are, the aorta, the superior vena cava, the right and left pulmonary arteries, the four pulmonary veins, and the obliterated ductus arteriosus. The inferior vena cava enters the pericardium through the central tendon of the Diaphragm, and receives no covering from tlie fibrous layer. The serous pericardium is, as already stated, a closed sac which lines the fibrous pericardium and is invaginated by the heart ; it therefore consists of a visceral and a parietal portion. The visceral portion, or epicardium, covers the heart and the great vessels, and from the latter is continuous with the parietal layer which lines the fibrous pericardium. The portion whicli covers the vessels is arranged in the form of two tubes. The aorta and pulnionary artery are enclosed in one tube, the arterial mesocardium-. The superior and inferior venae cavse and the four pulmonary veins are enclosed in a second tube, the venous mesocardium, the attachment of which to the parietal layer presents the shape of an inverted U. Tlie cul-de-sac enclosed between the limbs of the n is known as the oblique sinus, while the passage between the venous and arterial mesocardia—i.e. between the aorta and pulmonary artery in front and the auricles behind—is termed the transverse sinus (sinus trans- versus pericardii). The serous pericardium is smooth and glistening, and secretes a serous fluid, which serves to facilitate the movements of the heart. The vestigial fold of the pericardium. — BetAveen the left pulmonary artery and subjacent pulmonary vein is a triangular fold of the serous peri- cardium ; it is known as the vestigial fold of Marshall. It is formed by the duplicature of the serous layer over the remnant of the lower part of the left superior vena cava (duct of Cuvier), which becomes obliterated after bu-th, and remains as a fibrous band stretchmg from the left superior intercostal vein to the left auricle, where it is continuous with a small vein, the oblique vein of Marshall, which opens into the coronary sinus. The arteries of the pericardium are derived from the internal mammary and its musculo-phrenic branch, and from the descending thoracic aorta. The nerves of the pericardium are derived from the pneumogastrics, the phrenics, and the sympathetic. Applied Anatomy.—The efEusion of fluid into the pericardial sac often occurs in acute rheu- matism or pneumonia, or in patients with chronic vascular and renal disease, embarrassing the heart's action and giving rise to signs of cardiac distress, such as pallor, a rapid and teeble pulse, dyspnoea, and restlessness. On examination, the apical cardiac impulse is absent, or replaced by a more extensive indefinite and wavermg pulsation ; it may appear to be in the second, third, or fourth left space, and is then not an apex-impulse, as Potam has stated, but due to the impact of some portion of the heart-wall nearer its base. In children the precordial mtercostal spaces may bulge outwards. The most striking sign, however, is the great increase m aU directions of the pra>cordial duhiess on percussion 1 his becomes pear-shaped, the stalk of the pear reaching up to about the left sterno-clavicular articu- lation : the dulness also extends some distance to the right of the sternum particularly in the fifth interspace (Rotch). The fluid collects mamly on either side of the heart, and below it, especially on the left side, where the Diaphragm can yield more readily to pressure than it can on the right. Ewart has drawn attention to the presence of a square patd| o dulness over the base of the left lung behind, reachmg up to the level of the nm h or e tti rib, and extending out^^•ards as far as the lower angle of the scapula ; the underlymg lung- tissue gives the physical signs of compression or cohapse. „„,j:„^ Paracentesis of the pericardium is often required to relieve the urgent oard ao oi respiratory distress in these cases, and should be performed without hesitation a- d''e o e the patient is in extremis. It may also be required when t le P<=".^f'^^"'^l' ^^^^^^ tl c blood or pus, and as it is advisable to perform this operation without^ transhMng c pleu'a. the puncture should be made either in the fifth or s xth -J-^^"^^^^^^^^^^^^ loft side and close to the sternum, so as to avoid wounding t'^''"'X%n^^^^^^^ which descends about half an inch from the sternal margin; or the nee^dle '""y ,^^^^^^^ at the left costo-xiphoid angle and made to pass upwards and backwards behind tin lo^^tr