SPLANCHNOLOGY 1212 Vessels and Nerves.—Tlie arteries sujiplying the vesicvite seminales are derived from the middle and inferior vesical, and middle hajmorrhoidal. The veins and lymphatics accompany the arteries. The nerves are derived from the pelvic plexuses. Applied Anatomy.—The vesicuL-e seminales are often the seat of an extension of the disease in cases of tuberculosis of the testis, and should always be examined from the rectiun, before deciding to perform castration in this affection. They also become affected in chronic posterior urethritis of gonorrhceal origin. Ejaculatory Ducts (fig. 1005) The ejaculatory ducts are two in number, one on either side of the middle line. Each is Fig. 1005.—Vesiculse seminales and ampullae of vasa formed by the union of deferentia, seen from the front. The anterior walls the duct from the vesicula of the left ampulla, left seminal vesicle, and prostatic seminalis with the vas de- ferens, and is about three- quarters of an inch in length. They commence at the base of the prostate, and run forwards and domiwards between its middle and lateral lobes, and along the sides of the sinus pocularis, to terminate by separate slit- like orifices close to or just ^dthin the margins of the sinus. The ducts diminish in size, and also converge, towards their terminations. Structure.—The coats of the ejaculatory ducts are extremely thin. They are: a.n otder fibrous layer, which is almost entirely lost after the entrance of the ducts into the prostate; a layer of muscular fibres, consisting of an outer thin circular, and an inner longitudinal, layer; and mucous membrane. The Pbstis The penis is a pendulous organ susj)ended from the front and sides of the pubic arch and containing the greater part of the urethra. Li the flaccid condition it is cylindrical in shape, but when erect assumes the form of a triangular prism with rounded angles, one side of the prism forming the dorsum. It is composed of three cylindrical masses of cavernous tissue bound together by fibrous tissue and covered with skin. Two of the masses are lateral, and are known as the corpora cavernosa ; the third is median, and is termed the corf us spongiosum (figs. 1006, 1007). The corpora cavernosa (corpora cavernosa penis) form the greater part of the substance of the penis. For their anterior three-fourths they lie in intimate apposition wdth one another, but behind they diverge in the form of two tapering processes, known as the crura, which are firmly connected to the rami of the pubic arch. Traced from behind forwards, each crus commences by a blunt-jjointed process in front of the tuberosity of the ischium. Just before it meets its fellow it presents a slight enlargement, named by Kobelt the hulb of the corpus cavernosum. Beyond this point the crus undergoes a constriction and merges into the corpus cavernosum proper, which retains a uniform diameter to its anterior end. Each corpus cavernosum terminates abruptly in a rounded extremity some distance from the point of the penis. Tlie corpora cavernosa arc surrounded by a strong fibrous envelope consisting of superficial and deoi) fibres. The superficial fibres are longitudinal in direction, and form a single tube which encloses both corpora ; the deep fibres are arranged circularly round each corpus, and form by their junction urethra have been cut away.