815 THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA form the lower sensory, or spinal, root of the fifth nerve. Narrow below, the fasciculus gradually expands above, and terminates, about half an inch below the pons, in a tubercle, the tubercle of Rolando. The ufper part of the posterior area of the nieduUa is occupied by the restiform body {corptis restiforme), a thick rope-hke strand which is situated between the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle and the roots of the ninth and tenth nerves. The restiform bodies connect the cord and meduUa with the cerebellum, and are named the inferior peduncles of the cerebellum. As they pass upwards, they diverge from each other, and assist in forming the lower parts of the lateral boundaries of the fourth ventricle ; higher up, they are du'ected backwards, each passing to the corresponding cerebellar hemisphere. Near where they enter the cerebellum they are crossed by several strands of fibres, which extend inwards over the floor of the fourth ventricle, and are named the sirice acuslicce. At first sight the restiform body appears to be formed by the upward continuation of the fasciculus gracihs and fasciculus cuneatus ; this, however, is not so, as it is probable that all the fibres of these fasciculi end in the gracile and cuneate nuclei. The constitution of the restiform body will be subsequently discussed. Internal structure of the medulla oblongata.—Although the external form of the medulla oblongata bears a certain resemblance to that of the upper Fig. 691.—Section of the medulla through the lower part of the decussation of the pyramids. (Testut.) 1. Anterior median fissure. 2. Posterior median fissure. 3. Anterior horn (in red), witt 3', anterior root. 4. Posterior horn (in blue), with d', posterior roots. 5. Crossed pyramidal tract. 6. Posterior column. Tlie red arrow, a, o', indicates the course the crossed pyramidal tract takes at the level of the decussation o£ the pyramids ; the blue arrow, b, b', indicates the course which the sensory fibres take. Fig. 692.—Section of the medulla at the level of the decussation of the pyramids. (Testut.) . Anterior median fissure. 2. Posterior median fissure. 3. Motor roots, i. Sensory roots. 6. Base ol the anterior horn, from which the head (5') has been detached by the crossed pyramidal tract. G. Decussation of the crossed pyramidal tracts. 7. Posterior horns (in blue). 8. Gracile nucleus. part of the cord, its internal structure differs widely from that of the latter, and this for the following principal reasons : (1) certain tracts of fibres which extend from the cord to the brain, and vice versa, undergo a rearrangement in their passage through the medulla ; (2) others which exist in the cord terminate in the medulla ; (3) new strands originate in the grey matter of the medulla and pass to different parts of the brain ; (4) the grey matter, which m the cord forms a continuous H-shaped column, becomes greatly modified and subdivided in the medulla, in which also new masses of grey matter are added ; (5) on account of the opening-out of the central canal of the cord, certain parts of the grey matter, which in the cord were more or less centrally situated, are displayed in £he floor of the fourth ventricle ; (6) lastly, the medulla is intimately associated with many of the cranial nerves, some arising from, and others terminating in, nuclei within its substance. The internal structure of the medulla is best studied by examinmg series of transverse and of longitudinal sections (figs. 695, 696). A short description of the course taken by the principal tracts, and of the arrangement of the grey matter, will now be given. The pyramidal tracts.—The division of the pyramids of the medulla into direct and crossed pyramidal tracts, and the course of these tracts in the cord,