1181 THE KIDNEYS ttiaiK^ular portion, between the suprarenal and splenic areas, in contact with the postero-inferior surface of the stoniacli. Below the pancreatic area the outer part is in relation with tlie splenic flexure of the colon, the inner wath the small intestine. Tlie area in contact with the stomach is covered by the peritoneum of the lesser sac. while that in relation to the small intestine is covered by the peritoneum of the greater sac ; behind the latter are some branches of the left colic vessels. . The posterior surface (facies posterior) of each kidney is directed back- wards and inwards. " It is entirelv devoid of peritoneal covering, and imbedded in areolar and fatty tissue. Italics upon the Diaphragm, the external and internal arcuate ligaments, the Psoas muscle, the anterior layer of the lumbar Pig. 975.—The relations of the kidneys, from behind. 1. Spleen. 2. Descending colon. 3. Line of pleural reflection. •!. Liver. 5. Subcostal artery. 0. Last thoracic nerve. 7. Line indicating outer edge of Quadratus luraborum. 8. Ilio-inguinal nerve. 9. Ilio- hypogastric nerve. 10. Ascending colon. 11. Psoas. aponeurcsis (which separates it from the Quadratus luraborum), and the tendon of the Transversalis muscle, one or two of the upper lumbar arteries, and the last thoracic, ilio-hypogastric, and ilio-inguinal nerves. The right kidney rests upon the twelfth rib, the left usually ori the eleventh and twelfth. The Diaphragm .separates the kidney from the pleura, ^\hich dips down to form the phrenico-costal sinus, but fiequently the muscular fibres of the Diaphragm are defective or absent over a triangular area immediately above the external arcuate ligament, and when this is the case the perinephric areolar tissue is in actual contact with the diaphragmatic pleura. The external border (margo lateralis) is convex, and is directed outwards and backwai-ds, towards the postero-lateral wall of the abdomen. On the left side it is in contact, at its upper part, with the spleen.