HISTOLOGY 72 exceeding one-tliird of the diameter of the tubes. The tube, both in the gland and where it forms the excretory duct, consists of two layers—an outer, formed by fine areolar tissue, and an inner layer of epithehum (fig. 89). The external coat is thin, continuous with the superficial layer of the conum, and extends only as high as the surface of the true sldn. The epithelial Umng m the distal part of the coiled lube of the gland proper consists of a single layer of cubical epithelium, supported on a basement membrane, and beneath it, between the epithelium and the fibro-ceUular coat, a layer of longitudinally or obliquely arrano-ed fibres, composed of involuntary muscle, the contraction of which aids the expulsion of the sweat. In the duct and the proximal part of the coiled tube ol the gland proper there are two or more layers of polyhedral eel s, fined on tlie internal surface, i.e. next the lumen of the tube, by a dehcate membrane or cuticle, and on the outer surface bva Hmiting membrana propria, but there are no muscular fibres The epithehum is continuous with the epidermis and mth the delicate internal cuticle of the epidermic portion of the tube. When the cuticle is care- fully removed from the surface of the cutis, these convoluted tubes of epithehum may be drawn out in the form of short, thread-Uke processes on its under surface. The contents of the smaller sweat-glands are quite fluid ; but in the larger glands the contents are semi-flmd and opaque, and contain a number of coloured granules and cells which appear analogous to epithelial cells. SEEOUS MEMBRANES The serous membranes form shut sacs, the walls of which are normaUy in con- tact so that the enclosed cavity is merely a potential one. The ^ac consists o one portion which is applied to the walls of the cavity which it hnes-the f anetnl portion : and another reflected over the surface of the organ or organs contamed m the cavity—the mscera^ portion. Sometimes the sac is arranged quite simply, as is the tunica vaginalis testis; at others with numerous involutions or recesses, as m tne peritoneum, m wtiicn, j^Q. 90.—^Part of the peritoneal surface of the central tendon of the diaphragm of a rabbit, prepared with nitrate of silver. nevertheless, the membrane can always be traced con- tinuously around the whole circiunference. The sac is completely closed, so that no communication exists between the serous ca^'ity and the parts in its neighbourhood. An ex- ception exists in the peri- toneum of the female ; for the Fallopian tubes open freely into the peritoneal cavity in the dead subject. This com- munication, however, is closed during fife, except at the moment of the passage of the ovum out of the ovary into the tube, as is proved by the fact that no interchange of fluids ever takes place between the two ca^^ties in dropsy of the peritoneum, or in accumula- tion of fluid in the Fallopian . . tubes The serous membrane '•«t.T^^i.a'Jre»-^^ L sometimes supported by Physiological Laboratory.' Klein.) f^^m, fibrOUS layer, aS IS the case With the pericardium, and such membranes may be spoken of fihro- '"The various serous membranes are the P^^t^^^^V *5;^:rfnd lieart abdomen; the two pleura, and pencarduim covenng^^^^^^ respectively ; and the turner vagmales, surrounding the testicles in ^i Serous membranes are thin, transparent, gfistemng structures, each consistin.