344 OSTEOLOGY surfaces of the tuberosities are continuous Avith one another, forming a single large somewhat flattened area : this area is triangular, broad above, and perforated by large vascular foramina : narrow below where it terminates in a prominent oblong elevation of large size, the tubercle of the tibia (tuberositas tibite), which gives attachment to the Ugamentum patellae ; a bursa intervenes between the deep surface of the ligament and the part of the bone immediately above the tubercle. Posteriorly, the tuberosities are separated from each other by a shallow depression, the popliteal notch, which, gives attachment to part of the posterior crucial ligament, and part of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The inner tuberosity (condylus medialis) presents posteriorly a deep transverse groove, for the insertion of the tendon of the Semi- membranosus. Its lateral surface is convex, rough and prominent; it gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament. The outer tuberosity (condylus lateralis) presents posteriorly a flat articular facet, nearly circular in form, directed downwards, backwards, and outwards, for articulation mth the head of the fibula. Its lateral surface is convex and rough, more prominent in front than the internal : it presents an emmence, situated on a level with the upper border of the tubercle of the tibia at the junction of its anterior and outer surfaces, for the attachment of the iho-tibial band. Just below this a part of the Extensor longus digitorum takes origin and a slip from the Biceps tendon is inserted. The shaft (corpus tibije) is of a triangular prismoid form, broad above, gradually decreasing in size to the commencement of its lower fourth, which is its most slender part. It then enlarges again towards its lower extremity. It presents for examination three borders and three surfaces. The anterior border, the most prominent of the three, is called the crest or shin (crista anterior) ; it commences above at the tubercle, and terminates l)elow at the anterior margin of the inner malleolus. It is sinuous and prominent in the upper two-thirds of its extent, but smooth and roimded below ; it gives attachment to the deep fascia of the leg. The internal border (margo medialis) is smooth and rounded above and below, but more prominent in the centre ; it begins at the back part of the inner tuberosity, and ends at the posterior border of the mternal malleolus ; its upper part gives attachment to the internal lateral hgament of the knee to the extent of about two inches, and msertion to some fibres of the Pophteus ; from its middle third some fibres of the Soleus and Flexor longus digitorum take origin. The external or interosseous border (crista mterossea) is thin and promment, especially its central part, and gives attachment to the interosseous membrane ; it commences above in front of the fibular articular facet, and bifurcates below, to form the boundaries of a triangular rough surface, for the attachment of the interosseous ligament connecting the tibia and fibula. The internal surface (facies medialis) is smooth, convex, and broader above than below ; "its upper thu-d, directed forwards and mwards, is covered by the aponeurosis derived from the tendon of the Sartorius, and by the tendons of the GracUis and Semitendmosus, all of which are mserted nearly as far forward as the anterior border ; in the rest of its extent it is sub- cutaneous. 1 • t I f The external surface (facies lateralis) is narrower than the internal; its upper two-thirds present a shallow groove for the origin of the Tibialis anticus; its lower third is smooth, convex, curves gradually forAvards to the anterior aspect of the bone, and is covered from Aiathin outwards by the tendons ot tiie Tibialis anticus, Extensor longus hallucis, and Extensor longus digitorum. The posterior surface (facies posterior) (fig. 398) presents, at its upper part, a prominent ridge, the oblique line of the tibia (linea pophtea) wine i extends from the back part of the articular facet for the fibula obliquely downwards, to the internal border, at the junction of its upper and midcUe thirds; it marks the lower limit of the msertion of the Pophteus, serves for the attachment of the popliteal fascia and gives origin to part of the ^^oleus 1 lexor longus digitorum and Tibialis posticus. The triangular area, f^^, t^,^''^. innir side of this line, gives insertion to the Pophteus. The '"'f the posterior surface is divided by a vertical ridge into two parts : t ^ ncige is well marked at its commencement at the oblique line, but graduaUy becomes