THE NOSE 1007 of the nose in which it is found. In the respiratory region it is coluinnar and ciliated Interspersed among the columnar cells are goblet or mucin cells, while between their bases are found smaller pyramidal cells. Beneath the epithelium and its basement membrane is a fibrous layer infiltrated with lymph-corpuscles, so as to form m many parts a diffuse adenoid tissue, and under this a nearly continuous layer of smaller and larger glands, some mucous and some serous, the ducts of which open upon the surface. In the olfactory region the mucous membrane is yellowish m colour and the epithelial cells are columnar and non- ciliated ; they are of two kinds, supporting cells and olfactory cells. The sup-porting cells con- tain oval nuclei, which are situated in the deeper parts of the cells and constitute the zone of oval nuclei; the outer part of the cell is columnar, and con- tains granules of yellow pigment, while its deeper portion is pro- longed as a delicate process which ramifies and communicates with similar processes from neighbour- ing cells, so as to form a network in the mucous membrane. Lying between these central processes of the supporting cells are a number of spindle-shaped cells, the olfactory cells, each consisting of a large spherical nucleus surrounded by a small amount of granular protoplasm, and possessing two processes, one of which runs outwards between the columnar epitheUal cells, and projects on the surface of the mucous membrane as a fine, hair-like process, the olfactory hair ; the other or deep process runs mwards, is frequently beaded, and is continuous with one of the filaments of the olfactory nerve. Beneath the epitheUum, and extendmg through the thickness of the mucous membrane, is a layer of tubular, often branched, glands, the glands of Boioman, identical in structure with serous glands. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the nasal fossa? are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic, which supply the ethmoidal cells, frontal sinuses, and roof of the nose; the spheno-palatine branch of the internal maxillary, which supplies the mucous membrane covering the turbinated processes and inferior turbinated bone, the meatuses and septum ; the inferior artery of the septum, from the superior coronary of the facial; the infra-orbital and alveolar branches of the internal maxillary, which supply the lining membrane of the antrum ; and the pterygo-palatine branch of the same artery, distributed to the sphenoidal sinus. The ramifications of these vessels form a close plexiform network, beneath and in the substance of the mucous membrane. The veins of the nasal fossae form a close cavernous network beneath the mucous membrane. This cavernous appearance is especially well marked over the lower part of the septum and over the middle turbinated process and inferior turbinated bone. Some of the veins open into the spheno-palatine vein ; others join the facial vein ; some accompany the ethmoidal arteries, and terminate in the ophthalmic vein ; and, lastly, a few communicate with the veins in the interior of the skull, through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and the foramen cjecum. The lymfliMics have already been described (page 770). The nerves of ordinary sensation are, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, filaments from the anterior dental branch of the superior maxillary, tlie Vidian, the naso-palatine, the large or anterior palatine, and nasal branches of Meckel's ganglion. The nasal branch-of the ophthalmic distributes filaments to the fore-part of the septum and outer wall of the nasal fossse. Filaments fi'om the anterior dental branch of the superior maxillary supply the inferior meatus and infei'ior turbinated bone. The Vidian nerve supplies the upper and back part of the septum, and superior spongy bone ; and the upper nasal branches from the spheno-palatine ganglion have a similai distribution. The naso-palatine nerve supplies the middle of the septum. The large, or anterior palatine, nerve supplies the lower nasal branches to the middle turbinated process and inferior turbinated bone. Theo/!/actor2/,the8pecialnerveof thesense of smell, is distributed to the olfactory region. Fig. 830.—^Nerves of septum of nose. Right side.