THE LARGE INTESTINE 1151 may be drawn outwards, and all traces of the valve wiW be lost, the ileum appearing to open into the large intestine by a funnel-shaped orifice of large size. The surface of each segment of the valve directed tow ards the ileum is covered witli villi, and presents the characteristic structure of the mucous membrane of the smaU intestine ; while that turned towards the large intestine is destitute of villi, and marked with the orifices of the numerous tubular glands peculiar to the mucous membrane of the large intestine. These differences in structure continue as far as the free margin of the valve. When the csecum is distended, the margins of the opening are approximated so as to prevent any reflux into the ileum. This is believed to be due to tension or stretching of the retinacula of the valve. Tlie colon is di^^ded into five parts : the ascending, transverse, descending, iliac, and pelvic. The ascending colon (colon ascendens) is smaller in calibre than the caecum, with wliich it is continuous. It passes upwards, from its commencement at the cfficum, opposite the ileo-csecal valve, to the under surface of the right lobe of the Mver, on the right of the gall-bladder, where it is lodged in a shallow FiQ. 952.—Interior of the caecum and lower end of colon, showing ileo-caecal valve. depression, the impressio colica ; here it bends abruptly forwards and to the left, forming the hepatic flexure (flexura coli dextra). It is retained in contact mth the posterior wall of the abdomen by the peritoneum, which covers its anterior surface and sides, its posterior surface being connected by loose areolar tissue with the Quadratus lumborum muscle, and with the front of tlie lower and outer part of the right kidney (fig. 953). Sometimes the peritoneum completely invests it, and forms a distinct but narrow mesocolon.* It is in relation, in front, with the convolutions of the ileum and the abdominal parietes. The transverse colon (colon transversum), the longest and most movable part of the colon, passes transversely from the right hypochondriac region across the abdomen, opposite the confines of the epigastric and umbilical zones, into the left hypochondriac region, where it curves downwards beneath tlie lower end of the spleen, forming the splenic flexure (flexura coli sinistra). In Its course it describes an arch, the concavity of wliich is directed backwards and a little upwards. It is almost completely invested by peritoneum, and is connected to the posterior abdominal wall by a large and mde duplicature an*^^'^^''t^ ^^^^^^ ^ careful examination of one hundred subjects, he found that in htty-two there wa.s neither an ascending nor a descending mesocolon. In twenty-two there was a desoendnig mesocolon, but no trace of a corresponding fold on the other side. In tom-teen subjects there was a mesocolon to both the ascending and the descending segments 01 the bowel; while in the remaining twelve there was an ascending mesocolon, but no