SPLANCHNOLOGY 1084 bi'onchial glands, and areolar tissue, all of wliich are enclosed by a reflection of the pleura. Tlie root of the right lung lies beliind the suiJerior vena cava and part of the right auricle, and below the vena azygos major. That of the left lung passes beneath the arch of the aorta and in front of the descending aorta ; the phrenic nerve, with its accompanying artery and vein, and tlie anterior pulmon.ary plexus, lie in front of each, and the pneumogastric and posterior j)ulmonary plexus behind each ; below each is the ligamentum latum pulmonis. The chief structures composing the root of each lung are arranged in a similar manner from before backwards on both sides, viz. the upper of the two pulmonary veins in front ; the pulmonary artery in the middle ; and the bronchus, together with the bronchial vessels, behind. From above down- wards, on the two sides, their arrangement differs, thus : On the right side their position is—eparterial bronchus, pulmonary artery, liyparterial bronchus, pulmonary veins ; but on the left side their position is—pulmonary artery, bronchus, pulmonary veins. The lower of the two pulmonary veins is situated below the bronchus at the apex or lowest part of the hilus. Divisions of the bronchi.—Just as the lungs differ from each other in the number of their lobes, so the bronchi differ in their mode of subdivision. The rigid bronchus gives off, about an mch from the bifurcation of tlie trachea, a branch for the upper lobe. This branch arises above the level of the pulmonary artery, and is therefore named the eparterial bronchus. All the other divisions of the main stem come off below the pulmonary arter\', and consequently are termed liyparterial bronchi. The first of these is distributed to the middle lobe, and the mam tube then passes do^vn■wards and baclcM ards into tlie lower lobe, giving off in its course a series of large ventral and small dorsal branches. The ventral and dorsal branches arise alternately, and are usually eight in number—four of each land. The branch to the middle lobe is regarded as the first of the ventral series. The left bronchus passes below the level of the pulmonary artery before it divides, and hence all its branches are hyparterial ; it may therefore be looked upon as equivalent to that portion of the right bronchus which lies on the distal side of its eparterial branch. The first branch of the left bronchus arises about two inches from the bifurcation of the trachea, and is distributed to the upper lobe. The main stem then enters the lower lobe, where it divides into ventral and dorsal branches similar to those in the right lung. The branch to the upper lobe of the left lung is regarded as the first of tlie Aeby regarded the absence of a left eparterial bronchus as indicating the absence of the corresponding lobe of the lung, and considered the middle lobe of the right lung the homologue of the upper lobe of the left. His conclusions, however, are not universally accepted. • i + i „„ The weiqht of both lungs together is about forty-two ounces, the right lung being two ounces heavier than the left; but much variation is met ^Mtll according to the amount of blood or serous fluid they may contain, i he lungs are heavier in the male than in the female, their proport in the former, as 1 to 37, in the latter as 1 to 43. ■, ,^ rr „ HovL- The colour of the lungs at birth is a pinkish-Av liite ; in adult life it is a daiK slaty-grey, mottied in patches ; and as age advances, this motthng assumes a black colour. The colouring matter consists of granules of a carbonaceous substance deposited in the areolar tissue near the surface of the organ it increases in quantity as age advances, and is more abundant in ma cs ti a" in females. The posterior border of the lung is usually darker than the ''''^Thlsurface of the lung is smooth, shining, and '"^r^^^^ «"Vn!°JCTis polyhedral areas, indicating the lobules of the organ : each of these aieas crossed by numerous lighter lines. i.„^f,„.„ . if floats The substance of the lung is of a light, porous spongy textme . in water, and crepitates when handled, owmg to ^^^^ P^f f ^.^/''^ orUn^ air-sacs; it is also highly elastic; hence tlie retracted state of these organ when they are removed from the closed cavity of the thorax.