1002 SPLANCHNOLOGY whitish elevations on the inner surface of the mucous membrane, just in front of the arytenoid cartilages. The epiglottis is a thin lamella of fibro-cartilage, of a yellowish colour, shaped like a leaf, and projecting behind the tongue, in front of the superior opening of the larynx. The projecting extremity is broad and rounded ; the attached part or apex is long, narrow, and connected to the receding angle between the two ala) of the thyroid cartilage, just below the median notch, by a ligamentous band, the thyro-epigloltic ligament (lig. thyreoepiglotticum). The lower part of its anterior surface is connected to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone by an elastic ligamentous band, the hyo-epu/lotlic ligament. The anterior or lingual surface is curved forwards towards the tongue, and covered on its upper, free part by mucous membrane which is reflected on to the sides and base of the organ, forming a median and two lateral folds, the glosso-epiglottic folds; the lateral folds are partly attached to the wall of the pharynx. The depressions between the epiglottis and the base of the tongue on either side of the median fold, are named the valleculm. The lower part of the anterior surface lies behind the hyoid bone, the thvro-hyoid membrane, and upper part of the thyroid cartilage, but is separated from these structures bv a mass of fatty tissue. • j 4- -Jn ' The posterior or kvnjnqeal surface is smooth, concave from side to sme, concavo-convex from above downwards; its lower part urojects backwards as an elevation, the tubercle or cushion (tuberculum epiglotticum). \Vhen tnt mucous membrane is removed, the surface of the cartilage is seen to be incientea by a number of small pits, in which mucous glands are lodged, lo its smes the aryteno-epiglottic folds are attached. Strncture.-The cornicula laryngis and cuneiform carl ilnges tlie epiglottis and the apices of the arytenoids at first consist of hyaline cartilage, but later ^ f^*^'',.^^^'^ J,^" J from the perichondrium, and eventually they are converted mto yellow fabro-cartUage,