CLASSIFICATION OF JOINTS 369 Synchondrosis.—Where the connecting medium is cartilage the joint is termed a syncliondrosis (fig. 420). This is a temporary form of joint, for tlie cartilage becomes converted into bone before adult life. Sucli joints are found between the epiphyses and shafts of long bones, between the occipital and the sphenoid at, and for some years after, birth, and between the petrous portion of the temporal and tlie jugular process of the occipital. 2. AmPHIARTHROSES. MiXED ArTICUXiATIONS In this form of articulation only a slight amount of movement is possible. Tlie contiguous bony surfaces are either connected together by broad flattened discs of fibro-cartilage, of a more or less complex structure, as in the articula- tions between the bodies of the vertebrae (fig. 421) ; or are united by an inter- osseous ligament, as in the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. The first form is termed a Symphysis, the second a Syndesmosis. 3. DiAKTHROSES. MOVABLE ARTICULATIONS This form of articulation includes the greater number of the joints in the body, mobility being their distinguishing characteristic. A diarthrodial joint is formed by the approximation of two contiguous bony surfaces covered with cartilage, and connected by liga- ments lined by synovial membrane (fig. 422). It may be divided, com- pletely or incompletely, by an interarticular fibro-cartilage or meniscus, the periphery of which is continuous vdth. the capsular liga- ment while its free surfaces are covered by synovial membrane (fig. 423). The varieties of joints in this class have been determined by the kind of motion permitted in each. There are two varieties in which the movement is uniaxial; that is to say, all movements take place around one axis. In one form, the Ginglymus, this axis is, practically speaking, transverse ; in the other, the Trochoid or pivot-joint, it is longi- tudinal. Tliere are two varieties where the movement is bi-axial, or around two horizontal axes at right angles to each other, or at any intervening axis between the two. These are the Condyloid and the Saddle-joint. There is one form where the move- ment is polyaxial, the Enarthrosis or ball-and-socket joint; and finally there are the Arthrodia or gliding joints. Ginglymus or Hinge-joint.— In this form of jomt tlie articular surfaces are moulded to each other in such a manner as to permit motion only in one plane, forwards and backwards, the extent of motion at the same time being con- siderable. Tlie dii'ection Avhich the distal bone takes in this motion is never in tiic same plane as that of the axis of the jiroximal bone ; there is always a certain' amount of deviation from the straiglit Ime during flexion. The articular surfaces are connected together by strong lateral liga- ments, which form their chief bond of union. The best examples of ginglymus B B I Fig. 422.—Diagrammatic section of a diarthrodial joint. Fig. 423. — Diagrammatic section of a diarthrodial joint, with an interarticular fibro-cartilage.