APPLIED ANATOMY OF LUMBO-SACRAL PLEXUS 987 unable to flex his hip completely, on account of the paralysis of the Iliacus ; or to extend the Icnee on the thigh, on account of paralysis of the Quach-icops extensor cmri" ■ there is complete paralysis of the Sartorius, and partial paralysis of the Pectmeus. There is loss of sensation down the front and mner side of the thigh, except m that part supplied by the crural branch of the genito-crural, and by the iho-mguinal There is also loss of sensation down the inner side of the leg and foot as far as tlie ball ot the ^"^^The" obturator nerve is rarely paralysed alone, but occasionally in association with the anterior crural. The principal uiterest attached to it is in connection with its supply to the knee ■ pain in the knee being symptomatic of many diseases hi which the trunk of this nerve, or one of its branches, is irritated. Thus it Ls well known that m the earlier stages of hip-jomt disease the patient does not complam of pam m that articulation, but on the iimer side of the knee, or m the kuee-jomt itself, both these articulations bemg supplied by the obturator nerve, the final distribution of the nerve bemg to the knee-joint. Again, the same thing occurs m sacro-iliac disease: pam is complamed of m the knee-jomt, or on its inner side. The obturator nerve is in close relationship with the sacro-iliac articulation, passing over it, and, according to some anatomists, distributing filaments to it. Further, m cancer of the ilio-pelvic colon, and even in cases where masses of hardened fa;ces are impacted in this portion of the gut, pain is complamed of m the knee. The left obturator nerve lies beneath the pelvic colon, and is readily pressed upon and irritated when disease exists in this part of the intestme. Finally, pain in the knee forms an important diagnostic sign in obturator hernia. The hernial protrusion as it passes out through the openmg in the obturator membrane presses upon the nerve and causes pain m the parts supplied by its peripheral filaments. When the obturator nerve is paralysed, the patient is unable to press his knees together or to cross one leg over the other, on account of paralysis of the Adductor muscles. Rotation outwards of the thigh is impaired from paralysis of the Obturator externus. Sometimes there is loss of sensation in the upper half of the inner side of the thigh. [s^^^i The great sciatic nerve is liable to be pressed upon by various forms of pelvic tumour, givmg rise to pain along its trunk, to which the term sciatica is applied. Tumours gi-owing from the pelvic viscera, especially advanced cancer of the rectum, aneurysms of some of the branches of the internal iUac artery, calculus in the bladder when of large size, accumu- lation of faeces in the rectum, may all cause pressure on the nerve inside the pelvis, and give rise to sciatica. Outside the pelvis violent movements of the hip-joint, exostoses or other tumours growing from the margin of the sacro-sciatic foramen, may also give rise to the same condition. Most cases of sciatica, however, are due to neuritis of the sciatic nerve from exposure to cold, and it occurs more often in men than in women, in the latter half of life, and often in association with rheumatism, gout, or diabetes melUtus. The inflamed nerve is often sensitive to pressure, particularly in certain ' tender spots ' (e.g. near the posterior iliac spine, at the sciatic notch, about the middle of the back of the thigh, in the popliteal space, below the head of the fibula, behind the malleoli, on the dorsum of the foot), and pain is felt whenever extension of the leg is attempted, and the nerve is stretched. Paralysis of the sciatic nerve is rarely complete ; when the lesion occurs high up there is palsy of the Biceps, Semimembranosus, and Semitenduiosus, and of the muscles below the knee. If the lesion be lower down, there is loss of motion in all the muscles below the knee, and loss of sensation in the same situation, except the ujiper half of the back of the leg, which is supplied by the small sciatic, and in the upper half of the inner side of the leg, when the communicating branch of the obturator is large (see page 974). Lesions of the external popliteal nerve cause paralysis of the Tibialis anticus, the Peronei, the long Extensors of the toes, and the short Extensor on the dorsum of the foot. ' Foot-drop ' follows, dorsal flexion of the toes and abduction of the foot becoming impossible. Later on tahpes results, largely by the action of gravity and by the weight of the superincumbent bedclothes when the patient lies in bed. The great sciatic nerve has been fi-equently cut down upon and stretched, or has been acupunctured, for the relief of sciatica. In order to define it on the surface, a point is taken at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of a line stretching from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the outer part of the tuber ischii, and a line di'awn from this to the middle of the upper part of the popliteal space. The line must be slightly curved with its convexity outwards, and as it passes dowTiwards to the lower border of the Gluteus maximus is slightly nearer to the tuber ischii than to the gi-eat trochanter, as it crosses a line drawn between these two points. The operation of stretching the sciatic nerve is performed by making an incision over the course of the nerve about the centre of the thigh. The skin, superficial structures, and deep fascia having been divided, the interval between the inner and outer hamstrings is to be defined, and these muscles pulled uiwards and outwards respectively \vith retractors. The nerve will be found a little to the inner side of the Biceps. It is to be separated from the sun-oimding structures, hooked up with the finger, and stretched by steady and continuous traction for two or three minutes. The sciatic nerve may also be stretched by what is knowTi as the ' di-y' plan. The patient is laid on his back, the foot is extended, the leg flexed on the thigh, and the thigh strongly flexed on the abdomen. While the thigh is maintamed in this position, the leg is forcibly extended to its fuU extent, and the foot a« fully flexed on the leg.