363 COMPARISON OF HAND AND FOOT posture. In order to allow of tlieir supporting the weight of the body with the least expenditure of material the tarsus and a part of the metatarsus are constructed in a series of arches (figs. 417 and 418), the disposition of which will be considered after the articulations of the foot have been described. Surface Form.—On the dorsum of the foot the individual bones cannot be dis- tinguished, with the exception of the head of the astragalus, which forms a rounded pro- jection in front of the ankle-joint when the foot is forcibly extended. The whole surface of the dorsum of the foot forms a smooth convex outline, the summit of which is the ridge formed by the head of the astragalus, the navicular, the middle cuneiform, and the second metatarsal bones ; from this it inclines gradually outwards and rapidly inwards. Fig. 417.—Skeleton of foot. Inner aspect. On the inner side of the foot, the internal tuberosity of the os calcis and the ridge separating the inner from the posterior surface of the bone may be felt. In front of this, and below the internal malleolus, the projection of the sustentaculum tali can be felt. About an inch or an inch and a quarter in front of the internal malleolus is the tuber- osity of the navicular. Farther forwards, the ridge formed by the base of the first metatarsal bone can be obscvu'ely felt, and from this the shaft of the bone can be traced to the expanded head articulating with the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Immediately beneath the base of this phalanx, the internal sesamoid bone can be felt. Lastly, the expanded ends of the bones forming the last joint of the great toe can be felt. On the outer side of the foot the most posterior bony point is the outer tuberosity of the OS calcis, with the ridge separating the posterior from the outer surface of the Fig. 418.—Skeleton of foot. Outer aspect. bone. In front of this the greater part of the external surface of the os calcis is sub- cutaneous ; on it, below and in front of the external malleolus, the peroneal ridge when present can be felt. Farther forwards, the base of the fifth metatarsal bono forms a prominent and well-defined landmark, and in front of this the shaft of the bone, with its expanded head, and the base of the first phalanx, may be made out. Applied Anatomy.—Considering the injuries to which the foot is subjected, it is surprising how seldom the tarsal bones are fractured. This is no doubt due to the fact that the tarsus is composed of a number of bones, articulated by a considerable extent of surface, and joined together by very strong ligaments which serve to break the force of violence applied to this part of the body. When fracture docs occur, those bones being composed for the most part of a soft cancellous structure, covered only by a thin shell of compact tissue, are often extensively comminuted, especially as most of the fractures