191 OSTEOLOGY the lower part of the foramen between the last lumbar and first sacral vertebrte. On either side of the bodj' is a broad triangular surface, which extends outwards, supports the Psoas raagnus and lumbo-sacral cord, and in the articulated pelvis is continuous with tlie iliac fossa. This is called the ala (ala sacralis) ; it is shghtly concave from side to side, convex from before backwards, and gives attachment to a few of the fibres of the Iliacus. The posterior part of the ala represents the transverse process, and its anterior part the costal process of the first sacral segment. The apex is directed downwards and presents an oval facet for articulation with the coccyx. The spinal canal (fig. 259) runs throughout the gi-eater part of the bone ; it is large and triangular in form above ; small and flattened from before backwards ; below, its posterior wall is incomplete, from the non-development of the laminae and spinous processes. It lodges the sacral nerves, and its Av ails are perforated by the anterior and Fig. 259.-Sagittal section of the sacrum. posterior sacral foramina, tln-ough which these pass out. Structure.—The sacrum consists of cancellous tissue invested externally by a thin layer of compact bone. Ai'ticulations.—The sacrum articu- lates with four bones ; the last lumbar vertebra above, the coccyx below, and the innominate bone on either side. Differences in the sacrum of the male and female. — In the female the sacrum is shorter and wider than in the male ; the lower half forms a greater angle with the upper; the upper half is nearly straight, the lower half presenting the greatest amount of curvature. The bone is also directed more obliquely backwards ; this increases the size of the pelvic cavity and renders the sacro-vertebral angle more prominent. In the male the curvature is more evenly distri- buted over the whole length of the bone, and is altogether greater than in the female. Variations.—The sacrum, in some cases, consists of six pieces ; occasionally the number is reduced to four. Sometimes the uppermost transverse tubercles are not joined to the rest of the bone on one or both sides, or the sacral canal may be open throughout a con- siderable part of its length, in consequence of the imperfect development of the laminse and spinous processes. The sacrum, also, varies considerably with respect to its degree ot curvature. The Coccyx The coccyx (os coccvgis) (fig. 260), so called from having been compared to a cuckoo's beak, is usually formed of four rudimentary vertebra?; the number may however be increased to five or diminished to three. In each ot the first three segments may be traced a rudimentary body, articular and transverse processes ; the last piece (sometimes the tlurd) is a mere nodule ot bone. All the segments are destitute of pedicles, lamina? and spinous processes, and, consequently, of intervertebral and spinal foramina, ihe first is the largest; it resembles the lowest sacral vertebra, and often exists as