SPLANCHNOLOGY 1178 which the stomach lies. Ho says : ' The portion of tlie pancreas to the left of tlie middle line lias a very considerable antero-posterior thickness ; as a result the anterior surface is of considerable extent; it looks strongly upwards, and forms a large and important part of the shelf. As the jjancreas extends to tlie left towards the spleen it crosses tlie ujjper part of the kidney, and is so moulded on to it that the top of the kidney forms an extension inwards and backwards of the upper surface of the pancreas and extends the bed in this direction. On the other hand, the extremity of the pancreas comes in contact with the spleen in such a way that the plane of its upper surface runs with little interruption upwards and backwards into the concave gastric surface of the spleen, which completes the bed behind and to the left, and, running upwards, forms a partial cap for the wide end of the stomach.' * The pancreatic duct or canal of Wirsung (ductus pancreaticus) extends transversely from left to right through the substance of the pancreas (fig. 973). It commences by the junction of the small ducts of the lobules situated in the tail of the pancreas, and, running from left to right through the body, it receives the ducts of the various lobules composing the gland. Considerably augmented in size, it reaches the neck, and turning do\\ nwards, backwards, and to the Fig. 973.—The pancreas and its ducts. right, it comes into relation with the common bile-duct, which lies to its right' side ; leaving the head of the gland, it passes very obliquely through the mucous and muscular coats of the duodenum, and terminates by an orifice common to it and the common bile-duct upon the summit of an elevated papilla, situated at the inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum, three or four inches below the pylorus (fig. 941). Sometimes the pancreatic duct and the common bile-duct open sej)aratelv into the duodenum. Frequently there is an accessory duct, which is given oil from the canal of Wirsung in the neck of the pancreas and passes horizontally to the right to open into the duodenum about an inch above the orifice of the main duct. It receives the ducts from the lower part of the head, and is known as the ductus pancreaticus accessorius or ducitis Santonni. The pancreatic duct, near the duodenum, is about the size of an ordinary quill • its waUs are thin, consisting of two coats, an external fibrous and an internal mucous ; the latter is smooth, and furnished near its termmatjon witli a few scattered follicles. ♦ Journal of Anatomy and riujswlogy, vol. xxsi. pt. 1, p. 102.