267 THE SKULL IN PROFILE orifice is termed the supra-meatal triangle, on the anterior border of which a small spinous process, the supra-meatal spine, is sometimes seen. Between the tympanic plate and the eniinentia articularis is the glenoid cavity, divided into two parts by the Glaserian fissure. The anterior and lai'ger part of the cavity articulates with the condyle of tlie mandible and is limited behind by the post-glenoid i^rocess : the posterior part lodges a portion of the parotid gland. The styloid process extends downwards and forwards for a variable distance from the lower part of the tympanic plate, and gives attachment to the Stylo-glossus, Stylo-hyoid, and Stylo-pharyngeus, and to the stylo- hyoid and stylo-mandibular ligaments. Projecting downwards behind the external auditory meatus is the mastoid process, to the outer surface of which the Sterno-mastoid, Splenius capitis, and Trachelo-mastoid are attached. The zygomatic or infra-temporal fossa (fig. 340) is an irregularly shaped cavity, situated below and on the inner side of the zygoma. It is bounded, Fio. 340.—Left zygomatic fossa. Parietrf/, Sohcno-iiuiiillarij fissure Infra-temporal crest Fterygo-maxillary fissure Samidar process External auditory meatus Tympanic plate Styloid process Glenoid cavity Zygomatic process (cut) External pterygoid plate in front, by the zygomatic sm-face of the maxilla and the ridge which descends from its nialar process ; behind, by the eminentia articularis of the temporal and the spine of the sphenoid ; above, by the greater wing of the sphenoid below the infra-temporal crest, and by the under surface of the squamous temporal; below, by the alveolar border of the maxilla ; internally, by the external pterygoid plate. It contains the lower part of the Temporal muscle, the External and Internal pterygoids, together with the internal maxillary vessels and inferior maxillary nerve and their branches. The foramen ovale and foramen spinosiim open on its roof, and the posterior dental canals on its anterior wall. At its upper and inner part may be observed two fissures, which together form a T-shaped fissure, the horizontal limb being named the spheno-maxillary, and the vertical one the pterygo-maxiUary fissure. The spheyio-maxillary fissure (fissura orbitalis inferior), horizontal in direction, opens into the outer and back part of the orbit. It is bounded above by the lower border of the orbital surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid ;