THE PLEURA 1077 waU on to the Diaphragm the latter is in direct contact with the lib cartilages Ind the Internal hitercostal muscles. Moreover, m ordmary mspiration the thin marSi of the base of the lung does not extend as low as the hne of the nleurS -Section with the result that the costal and diaphragmatic pleurae SeTere in contact! the narrow slit between the two being termed the stnns IZ^TcocZalis. a' similar condition exists behind steniuni a^^^^ cartilaaes, where the anterior thin margin of the lung faUs short ot the line SXiil reflection, and where the slit-like cavity between the two layers of pleura forms what is sometimes called the sinus costomcdiashnahs The hne along which the right pleura is reflected from the c^iest-wall to the Diaphragm starti in front, immediately below the seventh cos o-stexnal joint and runs downwards and backwards behind the seventh costal carti age so as to cross the tenth rib in the mid-axiUary line, from which it is prolonged to the Uxelith dorsal spme. The reflection of the left pleura follows at first the ascending part of the sixth costal cartilage, and m the rest of its course is slightlv lower than that of the right side. j a The free surface of the pleura is smooth, pohshed, and moistened by a serous fluid ; its attached surface is intimately adherent to the surface ot the lune, and to the pulmonary vessels as they emerge from the pericardium ; it is also adherent to the upper surface of the Diaphragm : throughout the rest of its extent it may be separated from the adjacent parts with extreme facility. The right pleural sac is shorter, wider, and reaches higher m the neck tnan ^^^^Liqamentum latum pulmonis.—'Fvom the above description it ^^•ill be seen that the root of the lung is covered in front and behind by pleura, and that at its lower border the investing layers come into contact. Were tliey form a sort of mesenteric fold, the ligamentum latum -pulmonis (hg. pulmonale), which extends as far as the Diaphragm between the pericardium and the lower part of the inner surface of the lung, having a free falciform border below between the lung and the Diaphragm. It serves to retain the lo^ver part ot the lung in position. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the -pleura are derived from the intercostal, internal mammary, musculo-phrenic, thymic, pericardiac, and bronchial vesse s. The veins correspond to the arteries. The lymphatics are described on page 793. The nerves are derived from the phrenic and sympathetic (Luschka). Kolhker states that nerves accompany the ramifications of the bronchial arteries in the pleura pulmonahs. Applied Anatomy.—Acute inflammation of the pleura, or pleurisy, may be either di-y or wet, and, if wet, either serous or purulent. Dry pleurisy is common in pneumonia, and is often an early manifestation of tuberculosis. It gives rise to much pain, and to friction sounds due to the scraping to and fro over one another of the inflamed and roughened parietal and visceral pleurte. Wet pleurisy occurs if the inflammation causes the effusion of serum into the pleural cavity. The two pleui-al layers are now separated by the fluid effusion, so the friction sounds are no longer produced. Room is found for the fluid by shrinkage of the supernatant lung due to the retraction of its elastic tissue, and later, when the quantity of serum exceeds about three pints, by shifting over of the heart and unaffected lung towards the sound side. This shifting may be so extensive that the apex beat of the heart comes to lie under the right nipple. Any pleural effusion that is large enough to embaraass respiration seriously, or has remained unabsorbed for two or three weeks, should be removed by tapping (paracentesis thoracis). The trocar is pushed through the chest-wall into the fluid, in the sixth or seventh intercostal space in the mid-axillary line, or in the eighth or ninth space just outside the angle of the scainila. Aspiration is then performed, and as much fluid as possible di-awn off: it must be stopped, however, if the patient shows signs of collapse, or if fits of coughing occur and threaten to wound the expanding lung against the sharp end of the trocar. Non-inflammatory or passive effusion into tlie pleura, called hydrothorax, is often seen in the later stages of chronic renal or cardiac disease, and demands treatment on lines similar to the above. Purulent pleural effusion, or empyema, often occms after such diseases as pneumonia or measles. This condition requires di-ainage of the cavity, which usually necessitates excision of a portion of a rib. An incision is made down to the seventh or eighth rib in the mid- or posterior axillary line and the periosteum is incised, and separated from the shaft of the rib, carrying with it the stnictures in the subcostal groove. With bone-cutting forceps about one and a half or two inches of the rib are separated and removed, and the underlying pleura is incised. The pus having been evacuated, a large di-ainage tube is inserted into the cavity. The pleura should never be irrigated, as sudden death has followed this proceeding, and great care should be taken to prevent the tube from slipping into the cavity, an occurrence which is far from uncommon.