ANGIOLOUY 718 Fig. 620.—The poj^litoal, posterior tibial, and peroneal arteries. Suml arti'vien The superior muscular branches, two or three in number, arise from the upper part of the artery, and are distributed to the lower parts of the Adductor magnus and hamstring muscles, anastomosuig with the fourth perforating branch of the profunda. The inferior muscular or sural (aa. surales) are two large branches, which are distributed to the Gastrocnemius, Soleus, and Plantaris. They arise from tlie popli- teal artery opposite the knee-joint. The cutaneous branches arise either from the popliteal artery or from some of its branches ; they descend between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle, and, piercing the deep fascia, are distri- buted to the integument of the calf. One branch usually accompanies the short, or external, saphenous vein. The superior articular arteries, two m number, arise one on either side of the popliteal, and wind round the femur im- mediately above its condyles to the front of the knee-joint. The superior internal articular (a. genu superior medialis) runs inwards beneath the inner hamstrmg muscles, to which it supplies branches, above the inner head of the Gastrocnemius, and passes beneath the tendon of the Adductor magnus. It di\ddes into^ two branches, one of which supplies the Vastus internus, anastomosing \vith. the anasto- motica magna and inferior internal articular; the other ramifies close to the surface of the femur, supplying it and the Imee-joint, and anastomosing with the superior external articular artery. The superior mternal articular artery is frequently of smaU size, a condition which is associated with an m- crease in the size of the anastomotica magna. The superior external articular (a. genu superior lateralis) passes above the outer condyle, beneath the tendon of the Biceps, and divides into a superficial and a deep branch ; the superficial branch supphes the Vastus externus, and anastomoses vdth the descending branch of the exter- nal circumflex and the inferior external articular arteries ; the deep branch supphes the lower part of the femur and knee- joint and forms an anastomotic arch across the front of the bone with the anasto- motica magna and the inferior mternal articular arteries. . The azygos articular (a. genu media) is a small branch, arising opposite the bend of the knee-joint. I* Pe^^f posterior ligament, and supplies the liga^ ments and spiovial membrane m the interior of the articulation. . The inferior articular arteries two in number, arise from the popliteal bene^t^ the Gastrocnemius. '^^ ^^rior iMern^ oHie^o^ descends along the upper margm of the Pophtcus muscle, to ^^ hich gu IPOSTIC nterior 'roneal