806 NEUROLOGY triangular area. Its fibres descend from the mid-brain, where they have their origin in the red nucleus of the tegmentum of tlie opposite side. (c) The tectospinal tract originates in the upper quadrigeminal body of the opposite side, and its fibres are partly intermingled \\ ith those of the rubro-spinal tract, and are partly contained m the anterior column. (d) The olivospinal tract or tract of Hehveg arises in the vicinity of tlie inferior olivary body in the medulla oblongata and is seen only in the cervical region of the cord, where it forms a small triangular area at the periphery of the cord close to the outermost of the anterior nerve-roots. Its exact origm and its mode of ending have not yet been definitely made out. 2. Ascending tracts.—(a) The direct cerebellar tract of Flechsig (tractus spinocerebellaris dorsalis) is situated at the periphery of the posterior part of the lateral column of the cord, and on transverse section appears as a flattened band which extends as far forwards as a line drawn transversely through the central canal. Internally it is m contact with the crossed pja-amidal tract, Fig. 681.—Diagram of the principal tracts in the spinal cord. Anterior median figure Direct2>tiramidal tract Anterior basis bundle IMueg's tract Anterior nerve roots Goirer's trad Direct cerebellar trad Crossed pyramidal tract Lissatier's tract Posterior nerve roots Fascicuhit cuneatus Comma tract Fasciculus gracilis Cornu-commissural tract Posterior median fissure behind, with the tract of Lissauer. It commences below about the level of the second or third lumbar nerve and, mcreasuig in size as it ascends, passes to the cerebeUum through the inferior peduncle. Its fibres gf^^JJ^^ regarded as being formed by the axons of the ceUs of Clarke « ^ receive their medullary sheaths about the sixth or seventh month of foetal h e (h) The tract of Ooioers (fasciculus anterolateralis superficiahs) skirts tlie periphery of tlie lateral column in front of the du-ect ^^f^beUar tract In transveSe section it is shaped somewhat like a comma, * "l^tLwtds which lies in front of the crossed pyramidal tract while the tad inches {or^^ards into the anterior column. Its fibres come from the opposite side « ^he cord and cross in the anterior commissure; they "™