ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS 395 form • narrower in the middle tlian at the extremities ; /"ached by its bioad Eto the Posterior inferior spine of the ilium, to the fourth and fifth trans- vSse tubeX of the sacrum, and to the lower part of the lateral margm of Ji f hnnP nnd the coccyx. Passmg obliquely downwards, outwards, and fonvarfTit becom^^^^ and t4k, but It its insertion into the inner mlrgTn of the tubero of the ischium, it mcreases in breadth and is pro^ S^S forwards along the mner margm of the ramus, formmg what is known as the /Sm ligament, the free cSncave edge of which gives attachment To the obtuVator fascia. One of its surfaces is turned towards the perinseum L Xr towards the Obturator internus. The lower border of the ligament Fig. 444.—Side view of pelvis, showing the great and lesser sacro-sciatio ligaments. Atiterior sacro-iliac ligament Poupart's ligament Great sacro- sciatic liga- ment Small sacro- sciatic liga- ment Great sacro- sciatic liga- ment Obturator tnemhrane is du-ectly contmuous with the tendon of origin of the long head of the Biceps, and by many is believed to be the proximal end of this muscle, cut off by the projection of the tuberosity of the ischium. Relations.—The -posterior surface of this ligament gives origin, by its whole extent, to fibres of the Gluteus maximus. Its anterior surface is united to the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. Its external border forms, above, the posterior boundary of the great sacro- sciatic foramen, and, below, the posterior boundary of the small sacro-sciatic foramen. Its lower border forms part of the boundary of the perinooum. It is pierced by the coccygeal branch of the sciatic artery, and coccygeal nerve. The Small or Anterior Sacro-sciatic Ligament (lig. sacrospinosum), much shorter and smaller than tlie preceding, is thin, triangular in form attached by its apex to the spme of the iscliium, and internally, by its broad base, to the lateral margin of the sacrum and coccyx, in front of the attach- ment of the great sacro-sciatic ligament with which its fibres are intermingled. Relations.—It is in relation anteriorly, with the Coccygeus to which it is closely connected ; posteriorly, it is covered by the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and crossed by the internal pudic vessels and nerve. Its superior border forms the lower boundary of the great sacro-sciatic foramen ; its inferior border, part of the margin of the small sacro- sciatic foramen. These two ligaments convert the sacro-sciatic notches into foramina. The superior or great sacro-sciatic foramen (foramen ischiadicum majus) is bounded, in front and above, by the posterior border of the os innominatum ; behind, by the great sacro-