THE THYROID BODY 1237 nate artery or the arch of the aorta, which ascends upon the front of the trachea. The arteries are remarkable for their large size and frequent anastomoses. The veins form a • plexus on the surface of the gland and on the front of the trachea ; from tliis plexus the superior, middle, and inferior thyroid veins arise ; the superior and middle terminate in the internal jugular, the inferior in the innominate vein. The lympfuitics arc numerous, of large size, and end in the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. The nerves are derived from the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. Applied Anaiomy.—An enlargement of the thyroid gland is called a goitre. The swelling may take the form of a diffuse hypertrophy of the whole gland, giving rise to the parenchymalous goitre, this being mainly due to the hypertrophy of the thyroid follicles themselves ; in other cases a fibroid form of goitre is produced o\ving to the increase in the interstitial connective tissue ; in others, again, the vascular changes may preponderate, and many large pulsating vessels may be present. Much more commonly, however, the enlargement is due to adenomatous new growth in the substance of the thyroid ; these tumours are always innocent, and tend to destroy life only by pressure on the air passages. A single tumour is the rule, but in some instances a very large number may be present. They tend to show marked mucoid degeneration, and so become converted into cyst- adenomata, and finally into what appear to be simple cysts. These tumours may attain an enormous size and may involve practically the whole gland. Malignant tumour-growth also, more rarely, attacks the organ. \Vhen, in spite of treatment, a goitre continues to grow, and especially when there are commencing symptoms of tracheal pressure, operative interference becomes necessary. This is not difficult, if an encapsuled tumour- is to be dealt with, provided the anatomical layers covering it are remembered. In such a case it is necessary to make an incision suited to the size and situation of the tumour, and having divided the deep cervical fascia, to retract the Sterno-mastoid or divide it if necessary. The Sterno-hyoid and Sterno- thyroid muscles next require division, or in some cases their fibres may be separated and drawn asunder, and beneath is found the ensheathing capsule derived from the pre- tracheal fascia ; this requires division, and exposes the true capsule of the thyroid gland. In the case of an adenoma or cyst, this true capsule then needs incision before the tumour can be effectually shelled out, and this is usually accomplished with very little haemorrhage, and without any of the main vessels of the gland requiring ligature. Partial extii-pation of the thyroid, viz. the removal of one lateral lobe with division of the isthmus, may be required in cases of parenchymatous goitre, and possibly in early cases of malignant disease. It is a more radical proceeding, and carries with it a much greater risk from hajmorrhage ; there is also a danger of wounding the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The whole gland must never be removed, as such a procedure is followed by the development of myxoedema. In hemi-thyroidectomy a free incision is indicated—dividing muscles, if necessary—to expose the true gland capsule, but at the same time avoiding injury to the large vessels which lie beneath it. The superior and inferior pedicles containing the respective thyroid arteries are then isolated and clamped on either side and divided between the clamps. The half gland is then turned over towards the middle line, and the isthmus ligatured and divided. Some venous bleeding is apt to occur from connections with the tracheal veins, and must be stopped. The pedicles are then securely ligatured and the wound closed. In dealing with the inferior thyroid artery, the position of the recurrent laryngeal nerve must be borne in mind, so as not to ligature or divide it. Temporary aphonia not uncommonly follows from bruising of the nerve, and if nothing more serious has occurred soon passes off. The Parathyroid Glands The parathyroid glands are small brownish-red bodies, situated near the thyroid gland, but differing from it in structure, being composed of masses of cells arranged in a more or less colunmar fashion with numerous intervening capillaries. They measure on an average about a quarter of an inch in length, and from a sixth to an eighth of an inch in breadth, and usually present the appearance of flattened oval discs. They are divided, according to their situation, into superior and inferior. Tlie superior, usually two in number, are the more constant in position, and are situated, one on either side, at the level of the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, behind the junction of the pharynx and oesophagus, and in front of the prevertebral fascia. Tlie inferior, also usually two in number, may be applied to the lower edge of the lateral lobe, or placed at some little distance below the thyroid body, or found in relation to one of the inferior thyroid veins.* In man, they number four as a rule ; fewer than four were found in less * Consult an article ' Concerning the Parathyroid Glands,' by D. A. Welsh, Journal of Anatomy and Phyaiologij, vol. xxxii.