MYOLOGY 492 dorsi about the middle of the posterior fold of the axilla, and crosses the axilla in front oi the axillary vessels and nerves, to join the under surface of the tendon of the Pectoralis major, the Conico-brachialis, or the fascia over the Biceps. The position of this abnormal slip is a point of interest in its relation to the axillary artery, as it crosses the vessel just above the spot usually selected for the application of a ligature, and may mislead the surgeon during the operation. It may be easily recognised by the transverse direction of its fibres. Struthers found it, in 8 out of 105 subjects, occurring seven times on itoth sides. There is usually a tibrous slip which passes from the lower border of the tendon of the Latissimus dorsi, near its insertion, to the long head of the Triceps. 'J'his is occasionally muscular, and is the representative of the Dorso-epUrochlearis muscle of apes. The outer margin of the Latissimus dorsi is separated below from the External oblique muscle of the abdomen by a small triangular interval, the base of which is formed by the crest of the ilium, and its floor by the Liternal oblique. This is known as the triangle of Petit (trigonum lumbale), and is sometimes the site of a lumbar hernia. Another triangle of practical importance is situated behind the scapula. It is bounded aboA^e by the Trapezius, below by the Latissimus dorsi, and externally by the vertebral border of the scapula ; the floor is partly formed by the Rhomboideus major. If the scapula be drawn forwards by folding the arms across the chest, and the trunk bent forwards, a part of the sixth and seventh ribs and the interspace between them become subcutaneous and available for auscultation. The space is therefore known as the triangle of auscultation. Nerves,—The Trapezius is suppUed by the spinal accessory, and by branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves ; the Latissimus dorsi by the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves through the middle or long subscapular nerve. Second Layer (fig. 497) Levator anguli scapulae. Rhomboideus minor. Rhomboideus major. The Levator anguli scapulse (m. levator scapulse) is situated at the back part and side of the neck. It arises by tendinous sHps frora the transverse processes of the atlas and axis and from the posterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the third and fourth cervical vertebrae ; these tendons, becoming fleshy, are united to form a flat muscle, M'hich passes downwards and backwards, and is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula, between the superior angle and the triangular smooth surface at the root of the spine. The Rhomboideus minor arises from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchae and the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebrae. Passing downwards and outwards, it is inserted into the base of the triangular smooth surface at the root of the spine of the scapula. This small muscle is usually separated from the Rhomboideus major by a slight interval. The Rhomboideus major is situated immediately below the preceding, the adjacent margins of the two bemg occasionally united. It arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the second, third, fourth, and fifth thoracic vertebrae and the suprasxjinous ligament, and is inserted into a narrow tendinous arch, attached above to the lower part of the triangular surface at the root of the spine, below, to the inferior angle, the arch being connected to the border of the scapula hj a thm membrane. When the arch extends, as it occasionally does, only a short distance, the muscular fibres are inserted into the scapula itself. Nerves.—The Rhomboid muscles are supphed by a branch from the fifth cervical nerve ; the Levator anguh scapulae by the third and fourth cervical nerves, and frequently by a branch from the nerve to the Rhomboids. Actions.—The movements effected by the preceding muscles arc numerous, as may be conceived from their extensive attachments. The whole of the Trapezius when in action retracts the scapula and braces back the shoulder ; if the head be fixed, the upper part of the Trapezius will elevate the point of the shoulder, as in supporting weights ; when the lower fibres arc brought into action they assist in depressing the bone. The middle and lower fibres of the muscle rotate the scapula, causing elevation of the acromion process. If the shoulders be fixed, the Trapezii, acting together, will draw the head directly backwards; or if only one act, the head is drawn to the corresponding side.