DEVELOPMENT OF URINARY AND GENERATIVE ORGANS 169 lu the male the Wolffian duct persists, and forms the tube of the epididymis, the vas deferens, and common ejaculatory duct, while the senunal vesicle arises •IS a lateral diverticulum from its hinder end. The anterior Wolffian tubules form the rete testis, vasa efierentia, and coni vasculosi of the testicle ; while the posterior tubules are represented by the vasa aberrantia of the globus minor, and by the organ of Giraldes, which is sometimes found in front of the spermatic cord above the globus major (fig. 235, c). Fig. 232.—Enlarged view from the front of the left Wolffian body before the establishment of the distinction of sex. (From Farre, after Kobelt.) a a b. c, d. Tubular structure of the Wolffian body. e. Wolffian duct. /. Its upper extremity, g Its termiimtiOT in a: the urogenital sinus, h. The duct of MuUer. i. Its upper, funnel-shaped extrenuty. k. Its lo«er end, terminating m the urogenital sinus. I. The genital ridge, ovary or testicle. In the female the Wolf&an bodies and ducts atrophy. The remains of the Wolffian tubules are represented by the epoophoron or organ of Rosenmuller, and the paroophoron, two small collections of rudimentary blind tubules which are situated in the mesosalpinx (fig. 233). The lower part of the Wolffian duct disappears, while the upper part persists as the functionless duct of Gartner (fig. 235, B.) Fig. 233.—Adult ovary, parovarium, and Fallopian tube. (From Farre, after Kobelt.) a. a. EpoBphoron formed from the upper part of the Wolffian body. h. Remains of the uppermost tubes sometimes forming hydatids, c. Middle set of tubes, rf. Some lower atrophied tubes, e. Atrophied remams of the WoUhan duct. /. The terminal bulb or liydatid. It. The FaUopian tube, originally the duct of MiUler. t. Hydatid attached to the extremity. /. The ovary. The suprarenal bodies are generally regarded as being developed from two sources. The medullary part of the organ is of ectodermal origin, and is derived from the tissues forming the sympathetic ganglia of the abdomen, while the cortical portion is of mesodermal origin, and appears to be derived from invaginations of that portion of the ccelomic epithelium which overlies the Wolffian body. The * Berry Hart (op. «j<.) has described the Wolffian ducts as ending at the site of the future hymen in bulbous enlargements, which he has named the Wolffian bulbs; and states that the hymen is formed by these bulbs, ' aided by a special involution from below of the cells lining the urogenital sinus.' He further believes that ' the lower third of the vagina is due to the coalescence of the upper portion of the urogenital sinus and the lower ends of the Wolffian ducts,' and that ' the epithelial lining of the vagina is derived from the AVolffian bulbs.' He also regards the colliculus seminalis of the male urethra as being formed from the lower i)art of the Wolffian ducts.