ARTICULATIONS OF VERTEBRAL COLUMN 373 L Intercentral Articulations The intercentral articulations, or articulations between the bodies of the vertebree, belong to the class of amphiarthrodial joints, and the individual vertebrjB move only sHghtly on each other. When, however, this slight degree of movement between the pairs of bones takes place in all the jomts of the vertebral column, the total range of movement is very considerable. The ligaments of these articulations are the following : Anterior Common Ligament. Posterior Common Ligament. Intervertebral Discs. The Anterior Common Ligament (lig. longitudmale anterius) (figs. 424, 435, and 442) is a broad and strong band of fibres, which extends along the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. It is broader below than above, thicker in the thoracic than in the cervical or lumbar region, and somewhat thicker opposite the bodies of the vertebrae than opposite the intervertebral discs. It is attached, above, to the body of the axis, where it is continuous with the anterior atlanto-axial ligament, and Fig. 424.—^Vertical section of two lumbar vertebrse and their ligaments. extends down as far as the upper part of the front of the sacrum. It consists of dense longitudinal fibres, which are intimately adherent to the interverte- bral discs, and the prominent margins of the vertebrse, but not to the middle parts of the bodies. In the latter situation the fibres are exceedingly thick, and serve to fill up the concavities on the anterior surfaces, and to make the front of the vertebral column more even. The ligament is composed of several layers of fibres, which vary in length, but are closely interlaced with each other. The most superficial fibres are the longest and extend between four or five vertebrse. A second, subjacent set extends between two or three vertebrse; while a third set, the shortest and deepest, extends from one vertebra to the next. At the sides of the bodies the ligament consists of a few short fibres, which pass from one vertebra to the next, separated from the median IJortion by oval apertures for the passage of vessels. The Posterior Common Ligament (lig. longitudinale j)osterius) (figs. 424, 425) is situated ^vithin the spinal canal, and extends along the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrse, from the body of the axis, where it is continuous Mith the occipito-axial ligament, to the sacrum. It is broader above than