1197 THE BLADDER The urachus is the fibro-muscular cord ah-eady mentioned, extending between the summit of the bladder and the umbilicus. It is broad below, at its attachment to tlie bladder, and becomes narrower as it ascends. The false ligaments of the bladder are two posterior, two lateral, and one anterior or superior. The two 'posterior ligaments form the sacro-genital folds, akeady described (page 1124); they pass forwards from the sides of the rectum to the posterior and lateral aspects of the vesiculae seminales, and form the lateral boundaries of the recto-vesical pouch of the iDeritoneum. The two lateral ligaments are reflections of the peritoneum, from the lateral walls of the pelvis to the sides of tlie bladder. The anterior or superior ligament (ligamentum suspensorium) is the fold of peritoneum extending from the summit of the bladder to the abdominal wall. It is carried oflf from the bladder by the urachus. serous, muscular. Structure (fig. 996).—The bladder is composed of four coats: submucous, and mucous. The serous coat is a partial one, and is derived from the peritoneum. It invests the superior sxu-face and the upper parts of the lateral surfaces, and is reflected from these on to the abdominal and pelvic walls. The muscular coal consists of three layers of unstriped muscular fibres : an external layer, composed of fibres having for the most part a longitudinal arrangement; a middle layer, in which the fibres are arranged, more or less, in a cii'cular manner; and an internal layer, in which the fibres have a general longitudinal arrangement. The fibres of the external longitudinal layer arise from the posterior surface of the body of the pubis in both sexes {musculi puho-vesicales), and in the male from the adjacent part of the prostate gland and its capsule. They pass, in a more or less longitudinal nna \7 t- i ^ i i 11 manner, up the anterior sm-face of the 996.-Vertical section of bladder, bladder, over its apex, and then descend along its posterior sm-face to its base, where they become attached to the prostate in the male, and to the front of the vagina in the female. At the sides of the bladder the fibres are arranged obliquely and inter- sect one another. This layer has been named the Detrusor urince mtiscle. The fibres of the middle circular layer are very thinly and irregularly scattered on the body of the organ, and, although to some extent placed transversely to the long axis of the bladder, are for the most part arranged obhquely. Towards the lower part of the bladder, round the neck and com- mencement of the urethra, they are disposed in a thick circular layer, forming the Sphincter vesicce, which is continuous with the mus- cular fibres of the prostate gland. The internal longitudinal layer is thin, and its fasciculi have a reticular arrange- ment, but with a tendency to assume for the most part a longitudinal direction. Two bands of oblique fibres, originating behind the orifices of the ureters, converge to the back part of the prostate gland, and are inserted by means of a fibrous process, into the middle lobe of that organ. They ^re the muscles of the iireters, descrihed by Sir C. Bell, who supposed that dm-ing the contraction of the bladder they serve to retain the obhque direction of the uretersf and so prevent the reflux of the m-ine into them. The subrriwous coat consists of a layer of areolar tissue, connecting together the muscular and mucous coats, and intimately united to the latter. Ihe rnucous coat is thin, smooth, and of a pale rose colour. It is continuous above thiough the ureters ynth the lining membrane of the m-iniferous tubes, and below with ti«L *f."''f.*^''^; ^\}^ connected loosely to the muscular coat by a layer of areolar tissue, and ,s therefore thrown into folds or rugce when the bladder is empty. Over the twl^^?nf!fln ^ '^'-f""^ i« «'o«<'ly attached to the muscular coat, and is not thio\vn into folds, but is smooth and flat. The epithelium covering it is of the transitional variety, consisting of a superficial layer of polyhedral flattened cells, each Jth one two Transitional epithelium ,Suhjnucous coat Inner layer of longitudinal m uscle fibres Circular Iuscle fibres Outer layer of longitudinal m uscle fibres