VEINS OF THE ABDOMEN 759 below to the margin of the vena-caval opening in the Diaphragm, and above to the pericardium in front of and behind the root of the right lung. The intra-pericardiac part is very short, and is covered antero-laterally by the serous layer of the pericardium. Peculiarities.—In position.—This vessel is sometimes placed on the left side of the aorta, as high as the left renal vein, after receiving which it crosses over to its usual position on the right side ; or it may be placed altogether on the left side of the aorta, as far upwards as its termination in the heart: in such cases, the abdominal and thoracic viscera, together with the great vessels, are all transposed. Point of termination.—Occasionally the inferior vena cava joins the right azygos vein, which is then of large size. In such ciuses, the superior vena cava receives the whole of the blood from the body before transmitting it to the right auricle, except the blood from the hepatic veins, which passes directly into the right auricle. Applied Anatoviy.—Thrombosis of the inferior vena cava is due to much the same causes as that of the superior (see page 750). It usually causes cedema of the legs and back, without ascites ; if the renal veins are involved, blood and albumin will often appear in the lurine. An extensive collateral venous circulation is soon established by enlargement either of the superficial or of the deep veins, or of both. In the first case the epigastric, the circumflex iliac, the long thoracic, the internal mammary, the intercostals, the external pudic, and the lumbo-vertebral anastomotic veins of Braune effect the communication with the superior cava ; in the second, the deep anastomosis is made by the azygos and hemiazygos and the lumbar veins.* Tributaries.—It receives hi its course the following veins : Lumbar. ' Renal. Inferior phrenic. Right spermatic, or ovarian. Suprarenal. Hej)atic. The lumbar veins (vv. lurabales), four in number on each side, collect the blood by dorsal tributaries from the muscles and integument of the loins, and by abdominal tributaries from the walls of the abdomen, where they communicate with the epigastric veins. At the vertebral column, they receive veins from the spinal plexuses, and then pass forwards, round the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, beneath the Psoas magnus, and terminate in the back part of the inferior cava. The left lumbar veins are longer than the right, and pass behind the aorta. The lumbar veins are connected together by a longi- tuduial vein which passes in front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras, and is called the ascending lumbar. It forms the most frequent origin of the corresponding vena azygos, and serves to connect the common iliac, iho-lurabar, lumbar, and azygos veins of its own side of the body. The spermatic veins (vv. spermaticse) emerge from the back of the testis, and receive tributaries from the epididymis ; they unite and form a convoluted plexus, called the spermatic plexus (plexus pampiniformis), which constitutes the greater mass of the cord : the vessels composing this plexus are very numerous, and ascend along the cord, in front of the vas deferens. Below the external abdominal ring they unite to form three or four veins, which pass along the inguinal canal, and, entering the abdomen through the mternal abdominal rmg, coalesce to form two veins, which ascend on the Psoas muscle, behind the peritoneum, lying one on either side of the spermatic artery. These unite to form a single vein, which opens on the right side into the inferior vena cava, at an acute angle ; on the left side into the left renal vein, at a right angle. The spermatic veins are provided with valves.f The left spermatic vein passes behind the iliac colon, and is thus exposed to pressure from the contents of that part of the bowel. Applied Anatomy.—The spermatic veins are very frequently varicose, constituting the condition known as varicocele. Though it is qiute possible that the originating cause of this affection may be a congenital weakness of the walls of the veins of the pampiniform plexus, still it must be admitted that there are many anatomical reasons why these veins should become varicose: viz. the imperfect support afforded to them by the loose tissue of the scrotum ; their great length ; their vertical course ; their dependent position ; * G. Blumer, in Osier and McCrae's Si/sicm of Medicine, Tjondon, IDOS, vol. iv. t Rivingtou has pointed out that val'vos are usually found at the orifices of both the right ^'^^^ spermatic veins. When no valves exist at the opening of the left spermatic vein into the left renal vein, valves are generally present in the left renal vein witliin a quarter of an inch from the orifice of the spermatic vein.—Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. vii. p. 163.