MYOLOUY Relations.—It is in relation by its longus, profunda femoris artery, and a Fig. 543.—Deep mxiscles of the internal femoral I'egion. Semitcndinosus, and Semimembranosus, the Quadratus femoris, tlic internal c erior surface -with the Pectineus, Adductor i-ior division of the obturator nerve; by its posterior sur face, with the Adductor magnus, and posterior division of the obturator nerve ; by its outer border, wth the internal cir- cumflex artery, the Obturator externus, and conjoined tendon of the Psoas and Iliacus; by its inner border, with the Gracilis and Adductor magnus. It is pierced near its insertion by the second or first and second perforating branches of the profunda femoris artery. The Adductor magnus (fig. 543) is a large triangular muscle, forming a septum bet«-een the muscles on the inner and those on the back of the thigh. It arises from a small part of the descending ramus of the pubis, from the ramus of the ischium, and from the outer margin of the inferior part of the tuberosity of the ischium. Those fibres Avhich arise from the ramus of tlie pubis are very short, liorizontal m direction, and are inserted into the rougli line leading from the great trochanter to the Imea aspera, internal to the Gluteus maximus ; those from the ramus of the ischium are directed do'^\•n^^-ards and out^\'ards with different degrees of obliquity, to be inserted, by means of a broad aponeurosis, mto the linea aspera and the upper part of its mternal pro- longation below. The internal portion of the muscle, composed principally of the fibres arising from the tuberosity of the ischium, forms a thick fleshy mass consisting of coarse bundles which descend almost vertically, and ter- minate about the lower thu-d of the thigh in a rounded tendon, Avhich is inserted into the adductor tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur, and is connected by a fibrous expansion to the line leading upwards from the tubercle to the linea aspera. At tlie insertion of the muscle, a series of osseo-aponeurotic openings, formed by tendinous arclies attached to tlie bone, is seen. The upper four openings are small, and give passage to tlie per- forating branches of the profunda femoris artery. The lowest is of larg(> sixe, and transmits the femoral vessels from Hunter's canal to the popliteal space. Relations.—It is in relation by its anterin, surface Avith the Pectineus. Adductor brovis, Adductor longus, and the femoral and profunda vessels and obturator ner\ c; by its posterior surface, with the great sciatic nerve, the Gluteus maximus. Biceps. Its superior or shortest border lies parallel with cumflex artery passing between them. Its