INNOMINATE ARTERY G23 contraction, if the conducting power is abolisiied, on the affected side. Tiiis lias proved to be an important diagnostic sign in this disease. Again, the innominate artery, or the subclavian, or left carotid, may be so obstructed by clots as to produce a weakness, or even a disappearance, of the pulse in one or the other wrist, or in the left temporal artery; or Ihe tumour may present itself at or above the manubrium, generally either in the median line, or to the right of the sternum, and may simulate an aneurysm of one of the arteries of the neck. It is important to remember that many of the physical signs of an aortic aneurysm may be simulated wth extraordinary fidelity by the preternatural pulsation or throbbing of a distended and elastic aorta, when no true aneurysmal dilatation exists. This condition may be met with in young persons with aortic reflux and greatly hypertrophied hearts, in patients who are of a neurotic or hysterical temperament, and in cases of Graves's disease or of marked anoemia. The condition is known as dynamic dilatation of the aorta, and in no way threatens life. Branches (figs. 572, 573).—The branches given off from tlie arch of the aorta are three in number : the innominate, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian. Peculiarities.—Position of the branches.—The branches, instead of arising from the highest part of the arch, may spring from the commencement of the arch or upper part of the ascending aorta ; or the distance between them at their origins may be increased or diminished, the most frequent change in this respect being the approximation of the left carotid towards the innominate artery. The number of the primary branches may be reduced to one, or more commonly two: the left carotid arising from the innominate artery; or (more rarely) the carotid and subclavian arteries of the left side arising from a left innominate artery. But the number may be increased to four, from the right carotid and subclavian arteries arising directly from the aorta, the innominate being absent. In most of these latter cases the right subclavian has been found to arise from the left end of the arch ; in other cases it is the second or third branch given off, instead of the first. Another common form in which there are four primary branches is that in which the left vertebral artery arises from the arch of the aorta between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. Lastly, the number of trunks from the arch may be increased to five or six ; in these instances, the external and internal carotids arise separately from the arch, the common carotid being absent on one or both sides. In some few cases six branches have been found, and this condition is associated with the origin of both vertebral arteries from the arch. Number usual, arrangement diff.erent.—When the aorta arches over to the right side, the three branches have an arrangement the reverse of what is usual, the innominate artery is a left one, and the right carotid and subclavian arise separately. In other cases, where the aorta takes its usual course, the two carotids may be joined in a common trunk, and the subclavians arise separately from the arch, the right subclavian generally arising from the left end of the arch. In some instances other arteries spring from the arch of the aorta. Of these the most common are the bronchial, one or both, and the thyreoidea ima; but the internal mammary and the inferior thyi'oid have been seen to arise from this vessel. Innominate Artery The innominate or brachio-cephalic artery (a. anonyma) (fig. 572) is the largest branch given off from tlie arch of the aorta. It arises, on a level witli tlie ui^per border of the second right costal cartilage, from the com- mencement of the arch of tlie aorta, on a plane anterior to the origin of tlie left carotid, and, ascending obUquely upwards, backwards, and outwards to the level of the upper border of the right sterno-clavicular articulation, divides into the right common carotid and right subclavian arteries. This vessel varies from an inch and a half to two inches in length. Relations.—/« /Voni, it is separated from the first piece of the sternum by the bterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, the left innominate and right inferior thyroid veins which cross its root, and some- times the inferior cervical cardiac branch of the right pneumogastric. Behind, it lies upon the trachea, which it cresses obliquely. On the ricjht side are the right imiommate vein, the superior vena cava, the right phrenic nerve, and the pleura ; and on the left side, the remains of the thymus gland, the origin of the left carotid artery, the left inferior thyroid vein, and the trachea. ^'"^•nches.—The innominate usually gives off no branches ; but occasionally a small branch, the thyreoidea ima, arises from tliis vessel. It also sometimes gives off a thymic or bronchial branch.