439 ARTICULATIONS BETWEEN TIBIA AND FIBULA tuberosity of the tibia against the outer condyle of the femur. This extra pressure causes nn-est of growth, and, possibly, wasting of the outer condyle, and a consequent tendency for the tibia to become separated from the internal condyle. Irregular overgrowth from the inner portion of the epiphysial line takes place, giving rise to apparent enlargement of the inner condyle of the femur, the line of the epiphysis becommg obhque, with a direction downwards and inwards, mstead of at right angles to the axis of the bone. It the deformity be marked, an osteotomy of the femur is required to correct it. Excision of the knee-jomt is most frequently required for tuberculous disease of this articulation but is also practised in cases of disorganisation of the knee from other causes. It is also occasionaUy caUed for in cases of injury, gunshot or otherwise. The operation is best performed by a horse-shoe incision, startmg from one condyle, descendmg as low as the tubercle of the tibia, and then carried upwards to the other condyle. The bone havmg been cleared, and in those cases where the operation is performed for tuberculous chsease aU pulpy tissue having been carefully removed, the section of the femur is first made. This should never include, in children, more than, at the most, two-thirds of the articular surface, otherwise the epiphysial cartilage vnil be involved, with disastrous results as regards the growth of the limb. Afterwards a thm slice should be removed from the upper end of the tibia, not more than half an mch. If any diseased tissue still appears to be left m the bones, it should be removed with the gouge, rather than that a further section of the bones should be made. The bursEe about the knee-joint are sometimes the seat of enlargement. The pre- patellar bursa—i.e. the bursa between the front of the patella and the skm—is frequently affected in individuals who are in the habit of constantly kneeling, and the condition is then known as ' housemaid's knee.' The bursa beneath the Semimembranosus tendon also occasionally becomes enlarged, and forms a fluctuating swelling at the back of the knee. During extension, the swelling is firm and tense ; but during flexion it becomes soft, and, as the bursa often communicates with the synovial cavity, the fluid it contains can be made to disappear by pressure when the knee is flexed. Extension of septic processes within the joint is apt to occur along the tendon sheath of the Popliteus muscle, and this may lead to deep-seated suppuration in the popliteal space, often associated with septic thrombosis of the pophteal vein ; when this occurs amputation of the hmb becomes necessary. III. ARTICULATIONS BETWEEN THE TIBIA AND FIBULA The articulations between the tibia and fibula are effected by ligaments which connect both extremities ; in addition the shafts of the bones are bound together. The hgaments may consequently be subdivided into three sets : L Those of the Superior Tibio-fibular articulation. 2. The Middle Tibio- fibular ligament or interosseous membrane. 3. Those of the Inferior Tibio- fibular articulation. I. StrPEEIOR TlBIO-FIBDTLAR ARTICULATION (AbTICULATIO TiBIOriBULAEIS) This articulation is an arthrodial joint. The contiguous surfaces of the bones present flat, oval facets covered with cartilage and connected together by the following ligaments : Capsular. Anterior Superior Tibio-fibular. Posterior Superior Tibio-fibular. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) surrounds the articulation, being attached round the margins of the articular facets on the tibia and fibula; it is much thicker in front than behind. The Anterior Superior Tibio-fibular Ligament (lig. capituli fibula; anterius) (fig. 470) consists of two or three broad and flat bands, which pass obHquely upwards and inwards from the front of the head of the fibula to the front of the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The Posterior Superior Tibio-fibular Ligament (lig. capituli fibulae posterius) (fig. 469) is a single thick and broad band, wliich passes upwards and inwards from the back part of the head of the fibula to the back part of the outer tuberosity of the tibia. It is covered by the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. A Synovial Membrane lines the capsule, and at its upper and back part is occasionally continuous with that of the knee-joint. 2. Middle Tibio-fibular Ligament or Interosseous Membrane An Interosseous Membrane (membranainterossea cruris) extends between the interosseous margins of the tibia and fibula, and separates the muscles on