THE PERITONEUM 1127 mari^in of this layer is continuous round the hepatic artery, bile-duct, and portal vein, w ith the wall of the greater sac. _ Foramen of Winslow.—The foramen of Winslow is the passage ot communication between the greater and lesser sacs. It is bounded in front by the free border of the gastro-hepatic omentum, with the common bile- duct, hepatic artery, and portal vein between its two layers; behmd by the peritoneum covering the inferior vena cava ; above by the peritoneum on the caudate lobe of the liver, and below by the peritoneum covering the commencement of the duodenum and the hepatic artery, the latter passing forwards below the foramen before ascending between the two layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum. The boundaries of the lesser sac will now be evident. It is bounded m front, from above downwards, by the Spigelian lobe of the liver, the gastro-hepatic omentum, the stomach, and the anterior two layers of the gi-eat omentum. Behind, it is limited, from below upwards, by the two posterior layers of the great omentum, the transverse colon, and the ascending layer of the trans- verse mesocolon, the upper surface of the pancreas, the left suprarenal gland, and the upper end of the left kidney. To the right of the oesophageal opening of the stomach it is formed by that part of the Diaphragm which supports the Spigelian lobe of the liver. Laterally, the lesser sac extends from the foramen of Winslow to the spleen, where it is limited by the lieno-renal ligament and the gastro-splenic omentum. In the foetus the lesser sac reaches as low as the free margin of the great omentum, but in the adult its vertical extent is usually more limited o\Adng to adhesions between the layers of the omentum. During a considerable part of fcetal life the transverse colon is suspended from the posterior abdominal wall by a mesentery of its own, the two posterior layers of the great omentum passing at tliis stage in front of the colon. This condition occasionally persists throughout life, but as a rule adhesion occurs between the mesentery of the transverse colon and the posterior layer of the great omentum, with the result that the colon appears to receive its peritoneal covering by the splitting of the two posterior layers of the latter fold. In the adult the lesser sac intervenes between the stomach and the structures on which that \ascus Ues, and performs therefore the functions of a serous bursa for the stomach. Numerous peritoneal folds extend between the various organs or connect them to the parietes. They serve to hold them in position, and, at the same time, enclose the vessels and nerves proceeding to them. Some of these folds are called ligaments, such as the ligaments of the liver and the false ligaments of the bladder. Others, which coimect certain parts of the intestine with the abdominal wall, constitute the mesenteries ; and lastly, those which proceed from the stomach to certain viscera in its neighbourhood are called omenta. The ligaments, formed by folds of the peritoneum, include those of the liver, spleen, bladder, and uterus. They will be found described -with their respective organs. The omenta are : the small omentum, the gi-eat omentum, and the gastro-splenic omentum. The small or gastro-hepatic omentum (omentum minus) is the duplicature which extends bet\\een the liver and the lesser curvature of the stomach. It is extremely thin, and is continuous with the two layers of peritoneum which cover respectively the antero-superior and postero-inferior surfaces of the stomach. When these two layers reach the lesser curvature of the stomach, they join together and ascend as a double fold to the transverse fissure of the liver ; to the left of this fissure the fold is attached to the bottom of the fissure of the ductus venosus, along which it is carried to the Diaphragm, where the two layers separate to embrace the end of the oesophagus. At the right border the two layers are continuous, and form a free margin which constitutes the anterior boundary of the foramen of Winslow. Between the two layers, close to this free margin, are the hepatic artery, the common bile- duct, the portal vein, lymphatics, and the hepatic plexus of nerves—all these structures being enclosed in loose areolar tissue, called Olisson's capsule. Between the layers, where they are attached to the stomach, run the gastric artery and the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery.