POPLITEAL ARTERY 719 it then passes below the inner tuberosity of the tibia, beneath the internal lateral lifjament, at the anterior border of which it ascends to the front and inner side of the joint, to supply the head of the tibia and the articulation of the knee, anastomosing with the inferior external articular and superior internal articular arteries. The inferior external articular (a. genu inferior lateralis) runs outwards above the head of the fibula to the front of the knee-joint, passing in its course beneath the outer head of the Gastrocnemius, the external lateral ligament, and the tendon of the Biceps muscle. It terminates by dividing into branches, which anastomose witli the inferior internal articular artery, the superior external articular artery, and the anterior recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. Circumpatellar anastomosis (fig. 621).—Around and above the patella, and on the contiguous ends of the femur and tibia, is a large network of vessels forming Fio. 621.—Circumpatellar anastomosis. a superficial and a deep plexus. The superficial plexus is situated between the fascia and skni round about the patella, and forms three well-defined arches : one, above the upper border of the patella, in the loose connective tissue over the Quadriceps extensor muscle ; the other two, below the level of the patella, are situated in the tat behind the hgamentum patella;. The deep plexus, which forms a close network of vessels, hes on the lower end of the femur and upper end of the tibia around their articular surfaces, and sends numerous offsets into the interior of the joint. The arteries from which this plexus is formed are the two internal and the two external articular branches of the popliteal : the anastomotica magna; the aescending branch of the external circumflex; and the anterior recurrent branch 01 the anterior tibial. Anterior Tibial Artery (fig. 622) The anterior tibial artery (a. tibialis anterior) commences at the bifur- cation of the popliteal, at the lower border of the Popliteu.s muscle, passes loi wards between the two heads of the Tibialis posticus, and throuc^h the