185 CERVICAL VERTEBRA therefore this tubercle is named the hiberculum caroticvm or Chassaignac's tubercle. It also constitutes an important guide to the vertebral artery which enters the foramen transversarium of this vertebra. The first cervical vertebra (fig. 250) is named the atlas because it supports the globe of the liead. Its chief peculiarities are that it has neither body nor spinous process, but is ring-Hke, and consists of an anterior and a posterior arch, and two lateral masses. The anterior arch (arcus anterior) forms about one-fifth of the ring : its anterior surface is convex, and presents y at its centre a tubercle (tuberculum anterius) for the attachment of the Longus oM^^^^^^ cdH ; posteriorly it is concave, and marked by a smooth, oval or circular ' ^ facet (fovea dentis), for articulation with the odontoid process of the axis.'f^'^; ^^I^ The upper and lower borders respectively give attachment to the anterior occipito-atlantal and the anterior atlanto-axial ligaments; the former connects it with the occipital bone above and the latter with the axis below. The posterior arch forms about two-fifths of the ch-cumference of the ring : it terminates behind in a tubercle (tuberculum posterius) which is the rudiment of a spinous process and gives origin to the Rectus capitis posticus minor. The ^^^^2^^ - dimmutive size of this process prevents any interference with the movements \Z ^ between the atlas and the cranium. The posterior part of the .arch presents n±^^^-.Tt above and behind a rounded edge for the attachment of the posterior occipito- K)» atlantal ligament, Avhile immediately behind each superior articular process is ~ -s a gi-oove (sulcus arteriaj vertebralis), sometimes converted into a foramen by a Tnberrle Transvei se process Fig. 250.—^First cervical vertebra, or Atlas. Diaffmm of section of odontoid 2>rocess Diagram of section of transverse ligament Foramen for vertebral artery Groove for veHehral artci-y and first spinal nerve Eudimentary spinous process delicate bony spiculum which arches backwards from the posterior extremity ■ of the superior articular process. This groove represents the superior inter- vertebral notch, and serves for the transmission of the vertebral artery, which : after ascending through the foramen in the transverse process, winds round tlie lateral mass m a du-ection backwards and inwards. It also transmits the •suboccipital (first spinal) nerve. On the under surface of the posterior arch ibelund the articular facets, are two shaUow grooves, which represent the ! inferior mtervertebral notches of other vertebr£e. The lower border gives attachment to the posterior atlanto-axial ligament, which connects it with the axis. Ihe lateral masses are the. most bulky and soHd parts of the atlas, in border to support the weight of the head. Each presents an articular facet .above, and one below The superior facets are of large size, oval, concave, • and approach each other m front, but diverge behind: they are directed ■ upwards, mwards, and a little backwards, each forming a cup for the con-esponding condyle of the occipital bone, and are admirably adapted to tv Ti u^ movements of the head. Not infrequently they are partiaUy sub- 'tuviaed by more or less deep indentations which encroach upon their lateral margins, ihe inferior articular facets are circular in form, flattened or slightlv ineSfn"„ .v.'''^°*^^°"'''"''''''^' articulating with the axisrand .permitting the rotatory movements of the head. Just below the inner margm ot each superior facet is a smaU tubercle, for the attachment of the I transverse ligament which stretches across the ring of the atlas and divides the