SYNDESMOLOGY THE various bones of the Skeleton are connected to adjacent bones at different parts of their surfaces, and such connections are termed Joinls or Articulations. Where the joints are immovable, as in the articulations between the bones of the skuU (with the exception of those of the mandible), the adjacent margins of the bones are almost in contact, being separated merely by a thm layer of fibrous membrane, named the sutural ligament. In certain regions at the base of the skull this fibrous membrane is replaced by a layer of cartilage. Where slight movement combined with great strength is required, the osseous surfaces are united by tough and elastic fibro-cartilages, as in the jomts between the vertebral bodies, and in the mterpubic articulation. In the freely movable joints the surfaces are completely separated ; the bones forming the articulation are generally expanded for greater convenience of mutual connection, covered by cartilage and held together by strong bands or capsules of fibrous tissue, called ligaments ; such jomts are partially Imed by a membrane, the synovial membrane, which secretes a fluid to lubricate the various parts of which the joint is formed. The structures, therefore, which enter into the formation of a movable jomt are bone, cartilage, fibro- cartilage, ligament, and synovial membrane. t i i Bone constitutes the fundamental element of all the jomts. In the long bones the extremities are the parts which form the articulations ; they are generally somewhat enlarged, and consist of spongy canceUous tissue with a thin coatmg of compact substance. In the flat bones, the articulations usuaUy take place at the edges ; and in the short bones at various parts ot their surfaces. The layer of compact bone which forms the joint surface, and to which the articular cartilage is attached, is caUed the articular lamella. It is white, extremely dense, and varies m thickness. It differs from ordmary bone-tissue in that it contains no Haversian canals, and its lacunae are larger, and have no canaliculi. The vessels of the cancellous tissue, as they approach the articular lameUa, turn back in loops, and do not perforate it; this layer ls consequently denser and firmer than ordmary bone, and is evidently designed to form an unyieldmg support for the articular cartilage. The articular cartilage, which covers the articular surfaces of bones, is of the hyaline variety, and has been described m the section on Histology (page 21)^ properly so caUed, are peculiar to the movable joints, and serve to connect together the articular surfaces of bones. They are composed mainly of bundles of white fibrous tissue placed parallel with or closely mter- laced with one another, and presentmg a white, shmmg, sdvery aspect, in the frlely movable joi^its, or diarthrodia, they form envelopes or capsules coLectin^g together the articular extremities of bones. Portions of these SpS undergo thickening and form strong ligamentous bands. These con- Sent parts of the capside are usuaUy described as distmct l^g«™c.nts bu £ addition to them there are other ligaments derived from the muscle ^rroundiiig the joints. Ligaments are pliant and flexible, .so as to allou of t^e most perfect^reedom ot movement, but strong tough and mextensib e^ so as not to yield readUy under the most severely applied force. Some