334 OSTEOLOGY Fig. 387.—Right femui-. Anterior surface. Obturator intcrnus and Gemelli Pyriformis than the external, presents at its base a deep depression, the digilal fossa (fos.sa trochanterica), for the insertion of the tendon of the Obtu- rator externus, and above and m front of this an impression for the insertion of tlie Obturator mternus and Gemelh. The superior border is free ; it is tliick and irregular, and marked near the centre by an im- pression for the insertion of tlie Pyi'iformis. The inferior border corresponds to the line of junction of the base of the trochanter w ith the outer surface of the shaft; it is marked by a rough, prominent, slightly curved ridge, which gives origin to the upper part of the Vastus externus. The anterior border is prominent and somewhat irre- gular ; it affords insertion at its outer part to the Gluteus minimus. The posterior border is very promi- nent, and appears as a free, rounded edge, which bounds the back part of the digital fossa. The small trochanter (tro- chanter minor) is a conical eminence, which varies in size in different sub- jects ; it projects from the lower and back part of the base of the neck. Its base is triangular, and connected with the adjacent parts of the bone by three well-marked borders : two of these are above—the internal con- tinuous with the lower border of the neck, the external with the pos- terior intertrochanteric line—while the inferior border is continuous with the middle division of the Imea as- pera. Its summit, directed inwards and backwards, is rough, and gives insertion to the tendon of the Psoas. A well-marked prominence, of variable size, which projects at tlie junction of the upper part of the neck with the great trochanter, is called the tubercle of the femur : it is the point of meeting of five muscles : the Gluteus muiimus ex- ternally, the Vastus externus below, and the tendon of the Obturator internus and two Gemelli above. Capsular ligament Rumiing obliquely downwards and inwards from the tubercle is the spiral line of the femur, or antcrwr intertrochanteric line (linea intcrtro- chanterica) ; it wmds round the i nner side of the shaft, below the lesser trochanter, and terminates about two inches below this eminence m the linea aspera. Its upper half is rough, and affords attachment Adductor tubercle Inner tuberosity