OSTEOLOGY 20(5 in structure in youth, but more or less ossified at its upper part in the adull Its anterior surface aifords attacliraent to tlie chondro-xiphoid ligament and a small part of the Rectus abdominis ; its posterior surface, to some of the fibres of the Diaphragm and Triangularis sterni ; its lateral borders. to the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles. Above, it articulates with the lower end of the gladiolus, and at each superior angle presents a facet for the lower half of the cartilage of the seventh rib ; below, by its pointed extremity it gives attachment to the linea alba. This portion of the sternum varies mucli in form ; it may be broad and thin, pointed, bifid, perforated, curved, or deflected considerably to one or other side. Structure.—The sternum is composed of delicate, highly vascular cancellous tissue, covered by a thin layer of compact' bone which is thickest in the manubrium between the articular facets for the clavicles. Ossification.—The cartilaginous sternum originally consists of two bars, situated one on either side of the mesial plane and connected with the cartilages of the upper nine ribs of its own side. These two bars fuse with each other along the middle hue and the bone is ossified from six centres : one for the first piece or manubrium, four for the second piece or gladiolus, and one for the ensiform process (fig. 274). Up to the middle of foetal fife the sternum is entirely carti- laginous, and when ossification takes place the ossific gi-anules are deposited in the intervals between the articular depressions for the costal cartilages, in the following order : in the manubrium and first piece of the gladiolus, during the sixth month ; in the second and third pieces of the gladiolus, during the seventh month ; in its fourth piece, during the first year, or between the first and second years ; and in the ensiform process, between the fifth and eighteenth years. The centres make their appearance at the upper parts of the segments, and proceed gradually downwards.* To these may be added the occasional existence, as described by Breschet, of two small episternal centres, which make their appear- ance one on either side of the presternal notches; they are probably vestiges of the episternal bone of the monotremata and Hzards. It occasionally happens that some of the segments are formed from more than one centre, the number and position of which vary (fig. 276). Thus, the first piece may have two, three, or even six centres. When two are present, they are generally situated one above the other, the upper being the larger ; the second piece has seldom more than one ; the third, fourth, and fifth pieces are often formed from two centres placed laterally, the irregular imion of which will serve to explain the rare occurrence of the sternal foramen (fig. 277), or of the vertical fissure which occasionally intersects this part of the bone ; these conditions are further explained by the manner in which the cartilaginous matrix, in which ossification takes place, is formed. Union of the various centres of the gladiolus commences about puberty, and proceeds from below upwards; by the age of twenty-five they are all united (fig. 275). The ensiform process may become joined to the gladiolus before the age of thirty, but this occurs more frequently after fortv ; on the other hand, it sometimes remains ununited in old age. The manubrium is occasionally joined to the gladiolus in advanced hfe by bone. When this imion takes place, however, it is generally only superficial, the central portion of the intervening cartilage remaining unossified. Articulations,—The sternum articulates on either side with the clavicle and upper seven costal cartilages. The Ribs The ribs are elastic arches of bone, wdiich form the chief part of the thoracic walls. They are twelve in number on either side; but this number may be increased by the development of a cervical or lumbar rib, or may be diminished to eleven. The first seven are connected behind with the vertebral column, and in front, through the intervention of the costal cartilages, with the sternum; they are called vertebrosternal, or true ribs (costre veraj) .f The remain- ing five are false ribs (costaj spurise); of these, the first thi-ee have their cartilages * Out of 141 sterna between the ages ot birth and sixteen years, Paterson {op. eit.) found the fourth or lowest centre for the gladiolus present only in thirty-eight cases—26-9 per cent. . ■f Sometimes the eighth rib cartilage articulates with the sternum ; this condition occurs more frequently on the right than on the left side.