SYNDESMOLOGY 428 and the anterior fibres of the Glutei medius and minimus. Extension is mainly performed by the Gluteus maximus, assisted by the hamstring muscles and the ischial head of the Adductor magnus. The thigh is adducted by the Adductors magnus, longus andbrevis, the Pectineus.the GraciUs, and lower part of the Gluteus maximus, and abducted by the Gluteus medius and Gluteus minimus, and the upper part of the Gluteus maximus. The muscles which rotate the thigh intvards are the Gluteus minimus and the anterior fibres of the Gluteus medius, the Tensor fascife femoris and the Ilio-psoas ; while those which rotate it oultcards are the posterior fibres of the Gluteus medius, the Pyriformis, Obturators externus and internus, Gemelli superior and inferior, Quadratus femoris, Gluteus maximus, the three Adductors, the Pectineus, and the Sartorius. Surface Form.—A line dra^vn from the anterior superior spine of the iliura to the most prominent part of tiie tuberosity of the ischium (Nelaton's line) (fig. 466) runs through the centre of the acetabulum, and would, therefore, indicate the level of the hip-joint; in other words, the upper border of the great trochanter, which touches Nelaton's line, is on a level with the centre of the hip-joint. Fig. 466.—Nelaton's line and Bryant's triangle. Gr, Applied Anatomy.—In dislocation of the hip, ' the head of the thigh-bone may rest at any point aroimd its socket' (Bryant) ; but whatever position the head ultimately assumes, the primary displacement is generally downwards and inwards, the capsule giving way at its weakest—that is, its lower and inner—part. The situation tliat the head of the bone subsequently assumes is determined by the degree of flexion or extension, and of outward or inward rotation of the thigh at the moment of luxation, influenced, no doubt, by the ilio-femoral ligament, which is not easily ruptured. When, for instance, the head is forced backwards, this ligament forms a fixed axis, round which the head of the bone rotates, and is thus driven on to the dorsum of the ilium. The ilio-femoral hgament also influences the position of the thigh in the various dislocations : m the dislocations back^yards it is tense, and produces inversion of the limb ; in the dislocation on to the pubes, it is relaxed, and therefore allows the external rotators to evert the thigh ; wliile in tlie thyroid disloca- tion it is tense, and produces flexion. The muscles inserted mto the upper part of the femur, witii the exception of the Obturator internus, have very little direct influence m determining the ]josition of the bone. Bigelow, liowever. has endeavoured to show that tlie Obturator internus is the principal agent in deciding whether, in the backward dislocations, the head of the bone shall be ultimately lodged on the dorsum of the fluim. or in or near the sciatic notcli ; in both dislocations the head passes, in the iirst instance, in the same direction ; but, as Bigelow asserts, in the displacement on to the dorsum the