OSTEOLOGY 364 are produced by direct violeace; and, as there is only a very scanty amount of soft parts over the bones, the fractures are very often compound, and amputation is often necessary. When fracture occurs in the anterior group of tarsal bones, it is almost invariably the result of direct violence ; but fractures of the posterior group—that is, of the os calcis and astragalus—are usually produced by falls fi'om a height on to the feet. In club-foot (tahpes), especially ui congenital cases, the bones of the tarsus become altered in shape and size, and displaced from then- proper positions. This is principally the case in congenital talipes equino-varus, in which the astragalus, particularly about the head, becomes twisted and atrophied, and a similar condition may be present in the other bones, more especially the navicular. The tarsal bones are peculiarly liable to become the seat of tuberculous caries following comparatively trivial injiiries, especially as they are not maintained in a condition of rest to the same extent as some other parts of the body after similar injm'ies. Caries of the os calcis or astragalus may remain limited to the one bone for a long period, but when one of the other bones is affected, the remainder frequently become involved, since the disease spreads through the large and complicated synovial membrane which is more or less common to these bones. Amputation of the foot is often required either for injury or disease. The principal amputations are as follows :—(1) Syme's : amputation at the ankle-joint by a heel-flap, with removal of the malleoU and sometimes a thin slice from the lower end of the tibia. (2) Pu-ogofi's : amputation of the whole of the tarsal bones (except the posterior part of the OS calcis), and a thin slice from the tibia and fibula including the two malleoli. The sa\vn surface of the os calcis is then turned up and united to the cut surface of the tibia. (3) Subastragaloid: amputation of the foot below the astragalus through the jomt between it and the os calcis. The bones of the tarsus occasionally require removal individually. This is especiallj- the case with the astragalus for tuberculous disease Umited to that bone; or the astra- galus may requii-e excision in cases of subastragaloid dislocation, or in cases of inveterate talipes. The cuboid has been removed for the same reason. Fractures of the metatarsal bones and phalanges are nearly always the result of direct violence, and in the majority of cases the injury is caused by severe crushing accidents, necessitating amputation. The metatarsal bones, and especially that of the great toe, are frequently diseased, either in tuberculous subjects or m patients with perforating ulcer of the foot. SESAMOID BONES Sesamoid bones (ossa sesamoidea) are small more or less rounded masses imbedded in certain tendons and usually related to joint surfaces. Tbeir functions probably are to modify pressure, to diminish friction, and occasionally to alter the direction of a muscle pull. That they are not developed to meet certaui physical requirements in the adult is evidenced by the fact that they are present as cartilaguious nodules m the foetus, and m greater numbers than m the adult. They must be regarded, accordmg to Thilenius, as mtegral parts of the skeleton phylogenetically mherited. Physical necessities probably come into play m selectmg and m regulatmg the degree of development of the origmal cartilagmous nodules. iSjeverthe- less, irregular nodules of bone may appear as the result of mtermittent pressure in certam regions, e.g. the ' rider's bone,' which is occasionaUy developed in the Adductor muscles of the thigh. , , , , . Sesamoid bones are invested by the fibrous tissue of the tendons, except on the surfaces in contact with the parts over which they glide, where they present smooth articular facets. , , . . , i a i , In the upper extremity the sesamoid bones of the jomts are found only on the palmar surface of the hand. Two, of which the miier is the larger, are constant at the metacarpo-phalangeal jomt of the thumb; one i^ frequently present in the correspondmg jomt of the little finger and one (or two) in the same joint of the index finger. Sesamoid bones are also found occasionaUy at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints of the middle and rmg fingei^ at the interphalangeal joint of the thumb, and at the distal mterphalangeal ^''"^n°tVe^owe^^x^eSity the largest sesamoid bone of the jomts is the patella, developed in the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor muscle. P^^"^^^^^ aspect of the foot, two, of which the umer is the larger, are al".*y« P'^f^^f^ at the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe ; one sometunes at the * Morpholog. Arbeitcn, 190(), v. p. 309.