THE SPINAL CORD 803 Lateral column Postero- lateral column Antero-latcral column Dorso-mesial column ntero-mesial column Clarke's column Lateral column formatio reticularis. Tiie cells of this column are fusiform or star-shaped, and of a medium size : the axons of some of them pass into the anterior nerve-roots, by which they are carried to the sympathetic nerves ; Fxc,. 080.—Transverse sections of the spinal cord at while those of others pass different levels to show the arrangement of the into the anterior and lateral principal cell-columns, columns, where they become longitudinal. Nerve - cells in the posterior horn. — 1. The column of Clarke {posterior vesicular column). — This occupies the inner part of the base of the posterior horn, and appears on trans- verse section as a well- defined oval area. It com- mences below at the level of the second or thnd lumbar nerve, and reaches its maximum size opposite the twelfth thoracic nerve. Above the level of the ninth thoracic nerve its size diminishes, and the column terminates opposite the last cervical or first thoracic nerve. It is represented, however, in the other regions of the cord by scattered cells, which become aggre- gated to form a cervical nucleus opposite the third cervical nerve, and a sacral nucleus in the middle and lower part of the sacral region. Its cells are of medium size, and of an oval or pyriform shape; their axons pass into the peri- pheral part of the lateral column of the same side, and there ascend, under the name of the direct or ascending cerebellar tract. 2. Nerve-cells in the sub- stantia gelatinosa of Rolando. —These are arranged in three zones : a posterior or marginal zone, composed of large triangular or fusiform ceUs ; an intermediate zone of small fusiform cells ; and an anterior zone of star- shaped cells. The axons of these cells pass into the lateral and posterior columns, and there assume a vertical course. In the anterior zone some Golgi cells are found whose short axons ramify mthegi-ey matter. 3. Solitary cells of varying form and size are scattered throughout the posterior horn. Some of these are grouped to form 3 F 2 Postero- lateral column Antero-lateral column Anlero-mesial column Postero-lateral column Central cohi/mn