MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE PELVIS 521 Relations.—By its upper or pelvic surface, with the fascia which separates it from the bladder, prostate, rectum, and peritoneum. By its lower or perineal surface, it forms the inner boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa, and is covered by a thin layer of fascia, the ischio-rectal or anal fascia, given off from the obturator fascia. Its posterior border is free and separated fi'om the Coccygeus muscle by a cellular interspace. Its anterior border is separated from the muscle of the oi^ijosite side by a triangular space, through which the urethra, and in the female the vagina, pass from the pelvis. The Levator ani may be divided into iho-coccygeal and pubo-coccygeal parts. The Ilio-coccygeus arises from the ischial spine and from the posterior part of the pelvic fascia, and is attached to the coccyTc and ano-coccygeal raphe : it is usually thin, and may fail entirely, or be largely replaced by fibrous tissue. An accessory slip at its posterior part is sometimes named the Ilio-sacralis. The Pubo-coccygeus arises from the back of the pubis and from the anterior part of the obturator fascia, and ' is directed backwards almost liorizontally along the side of the anal canal towards the coccyx and sacrum, to which it finds attachment. Between the termination of the vertebral column and the anus, the two j)ubo-coccygei muscles come together and form a thick, fibro-muscular layer lying on the raphe formed by the Ilio-coccygei' (Thomjison). The greater part of tliis muscle is inserted into the coccyx and into the last one or two pieces of the sacrum. This insertion into the vertebral column is, however, not admitted by all observers. The iibres which form a sling for the rectum are named the Pubo-rectalis or Sphincter recti. They arise from the lower part of the symphysis pubis, and from the upper layer of the triangular ligament. They meet with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side around the lower part of the rectum, and form for it a strong sUng. Nerve-supply.—The Levator ani is supplied by a branch from the fourth sacral nerve and by a branch which is sometimes derived from the perineal, sometimes from the inferior hsemorrhoidal division of the pudic nerve. The Coccygeus (fig. 513) is situated behind and parallel with the preced- ing. It is a triangular plane of muscular and tendinous fibres, arising by its apex from the spine of the ischium and lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, and inserted by its base into the margin of the coccyx and into the side of the lowest piece of the sacrum. It assists the Levator ani and Pyi-iformis in closing in the back part of the outlet of the pelvis. Nerve-supply.—The Coccygeus is supplied by a branch from the fourth and fifth sacral nerves. Actions.—The Levatores ani constrict the lower end of the rectum and vagina. They elevate and invert the lower end of the rectum after it has been protruded and everted during the expulsion of the fteces. They are also muscles of forced expiration. The Coccygei muscles pull forward and support the coccyx, after it has been pressed backwards dxuing deftecation or partm-ition. The Levatores ani and Coccygei together form a muscular diaphragm which supports the pelvic viscera. V. Muscles and Fasci.5: of the Perin,^;um The perinaeum corresponds to the outlet of the pelvis. Its deep boundaries are—in front, the pubic arch and the subpubic Hgament ; behind, the tip of the coccyx ; and on either side the rami of the pubis and ischium, and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The space is somewhat lozenge-shaped and is limited on the surface of the body by the scrotum in front, by the buttocks behind, and on either side by the inner side of the thigh. A line di-awn trans- versely across in front of the ischial tuberosities divides the space into two portions. The posterior contains the termination of the anal canal and is known as the ischio-rectal or anal region ; the anterior, which contains the external urogenital organs, is termed the urogenital region. The muscles of the peiinseum may therefore be divided into two groups : 1. Those of the ischio-rectal region. 2. Those of the urogenital region : a. In the male; B, In the female. 1. Muscles and Pasci.^ of the Ischio-rectal Region Corrugator cutis ani. External sphincter ani. Internal sphincter ani. The superficial fascia is very thick, areolar in texture, and contains much fat m its meshes. On either side a pad of fatty tissue extends deeply between