THE CEREBELLUM 825 of the fifth nerve terminate in this nucleus ; but the greater number descend, under the name of the loAA-er sensory or spinal root, to end in the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando. The roots, motor and sensory, of the fifth nerve pass through the substance of the pons and emerge near the upper margin of its \ entral surface. 3. The nucleus of the sixth nerve is a circular mass of grey matter situated close to the floor of the fourth ventricle, above the striae acusticaj and subjacent to the eminentia teres : it lies a little external to the ascending part of the seventh nerve. The fibres of the sixth nerve pass forward through the entire tliickness of the pons on the mesial side of the superior olivary nucleus, and between the outer bundles of the pyramidal fibres, and emerge m the furrow betM-een the lo^^ er border ot the pons and the p_yi-amid of the medulla. 4. The nucleus of the seventh nerve is situated deeply in the reticular formation of the pons, on the dorsal aspect of tlie superior olivary nucleus, and the roots of tlie nerve derived from it pui'sue a remarkably tortuous course in the substance of the pons. At first they pass backwards and in\A ards until they reach the floor of the fourth ventricle, close to the median groove, where they ai'e collected into a round bundle. This passes upwards and forwards, producing an elevation (fasciculus teres) in the floor of the ventricle, and then takes a sharp bend, and arches outwards through the substance of the pons to emerge at its lower border in the interval between the olivary and restiform bodies of the medulla. 5. The nuclei of the auditory nerve.—The auditory nerve consists of a cochlear and a vestibular division. The fibres of the cochlear division end in two nuclei : (a) the lateral cochlear nucleus, which corresponds to the tuberculum acusticum on the dorso-lateral surface of the restiform body; and (6) the ventral ox accessory cochlear nucleus, which is placed between the Uyo divisions of the nerve, on the ventral aspect of the restiform body. The nuclei in wliich the vestibular di-vision ends are (a) the dorsal or chief vestibular nucleus, which corresponds to the trigonum acustici in the floor of the fourth ventricle ; the caudal end of this nucleus is sometimes termed the descending or spinal vestibular nucleus ; (b) the nucleus of Deiters, consisting of large cells and situated in the lateral angle of the floor of the fourth ventricle; the dorso-lateral j)art of this nucleus is sometimes termed the nucleus of Bechterew. Applied Anatomy.—Injury to the pons, such as may occur on the occlusion or riipture of one of its blood-vessels, often gives rise to a special train of symptoms that is almost diagnostic. Pontine lesions are characterised mainly by ' alternate paralyses ' ; that is to say, by paralysis of one of the motor cerebral nerves on one side, and of the limbs on the other side of the body. Thus a ha?morrhage into the lower part of the pons might cause paralysis of the face (' lower segment paralysis ') on the same side, from destruction of the facial nucleus or nerve-root, and paralysis of the arm and leg on the opposite side from injury to the adjacent pyramidal tract. In the same way, paralysis of the External rectus muscle of one eye and of the Internal rectus of the other (' conjugate paralysis ' of the muscles turning the two eyes in one direction) and often paralysis of one side of the face as well, together with palsy of the limbs on the opposite side of the body, may be found when the lesion occurs about the nucleus of the sixth nerve. Hearing is often unaffected in pontine lesions, possibly because the central auditory tract occupies a ventral and external position in the pons. The Cerebellum The cerebellum constitutes the largest part of the hind-brain. It lies behind the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata, while betAveen its central portion and the.se structures is the cavity of the fourth ventricle. It rests on the inferior occipital fossce, while above it is a fold of dura mater, named the tentorium cerebelli, which separates it from the tentorial surface of the cerebrum. It is somewhat oval in form, but constricted mesially and flattened from above downwards, its greatest diameter being from s'ide to side. Its surface is not convoluted like that of the cerebrum, but is traversed by numerous curved furrows or sulci, which vary in depth at different parts, and separate the laminae of which it is composed. Lobes of the cerebellum.—The cerebellum consists of three parts, a median and two lateral, -which are continuous with each other, and are substantially the same in structure. The median portion is constricted, and is cafled the worm or vermis, from the annulated appearance M-hich it presents o^dng to transverse ridges and furrows upon it; the lateral expanded portions are named the