DEVELOPMENT OF THE DIAPHRAGM 167 The Diaphragm and pleurae (figs. 229 and 230).—The following description is based on that given by Keith.* The central tendon of the Diaphragm is derived from the septum transversum ; each half of its muscular portion is developed in two parts viz • (a) a sterno-costal portion, derived from the ventral longitudinal musculature of the embryonic neck; and (b) a sjiinal or vertebral portion, •uising from the bodies of the vertebrse and arcuate ligaments, and denved from the cervical part of the TransversaUs. The pleuro-peritoneal opening is closed by the approximation of tbe sterno-costal and vertebral parts ; and the spino-costal fibrous hiatus, best seen on the left half of the adult Diaphragm, marks its position after closure. Sometimes the opening remains patent, and may allow of the formation of a congenital diaphragmatic liernia. The formation or separation of the Diaphragm—for at first it forms part of the wall of the body-cavity—results from the development of the pleural cavities Fig. 230.—The thoracic aspect of the Diaphragm of a newly bom child in which the communication between the peritoneum and plem-a has not been closed on the left side ; the position of the opening is marked on the right side by the spino-costal hiatus. (After Keith.) and lungs. The lung buds appear in the cervical region of the ernbryo, and they, together with, the parts of the ccelom in which they are contained, undergo a rapid devebpment, growing forwards and outwards into the tissue of the dorsal part of the septum transversum and of the body-wall; mthin that tissue the pleural cavities are excavated. The pleural cavities also develop within the body-wall towards the ventral median line, thus separating the pericardium from the lateral thoracic wall (see arrows in fig. 229). In this manner the pleural ca^^ties are excavated within the body-wall, dorsal to and on each side of the pericardium. The formation of the pleural cavities separates an inner layer from the ventro-lateral aspect of the body-wall to form the sterno-costal part of the Diaphragm, and also an inner layer from the dorsal aspect of the body- wall to form tbe vertebral part of the Diaphragm. DEVELOPMENT OF THE URINARY AND GENERATIVE ORGANS The urinary and generative organs are developed from tbe intermediate cell- mass which is situated between the primitive segments and the lateral plates of mesoderm. The permanent organs of the adult are preceded by a set of structures which are purely embryonic, and which with the exception of the ducts disappear almost entirely before the end of foetal life. These embryonic structures are on either side : the pronephros, the mesonephros, the Wolffian and Miillerian ducts. The pronephros disappears very early; the structural elements of the mesonephros mostly degenerate, but in their place is developed the genital gland * Ilmnan Evibryology md Morphology, by Arthur Keith, M.D., F.B.C.S., 2ncl edition, 1904. Consult also an article on the development of the Diaphragm, by the same author, in vol. xxxix. of the Journal of Anatomy and Phydology.