OSTEOLOGY 342 Fig. 396.—Bones of the right leg. Anterior surface. Capsular ligament External malleolus presents above a smooth, oval, articular area, covered with car- tilage in tlie recent state, and divided into two facets by a vertical ridge, which descends from the superior border towards tlie inferior angle of the bone. The ridge corresponds to the groove on the trochlea of the femur, and the two facets to the inner and outer parts of the same surface ; the outer facet is the broader and deeper. BeloAV the articular surface is a rough, con- vex, non-articular depression, the lower half of which gives attach- ment to the ligamentum pateUse : the upper half is separated from the head of the tibia by adipose tissue. The superior border (basis pateUse) is thick, and sloped from behind, downwards, and forwards: it gives attachment to that por- tion of the Quadriceps extensor which is derived from the Rectus and Crureus. The lateral borders are thinner, converging below: they give attachment to those portions of the Quadriceps ex- tensor which are derived from the external and internal Vasti. The apex (apex patellae) is pointed, and gives attachment to the Ugamentum patellae. Structure.—The patella consists of a nearly uniform dense can- cellous tissue, covered by a thin compact lamina. The canceUi immediately beneath the anterior surface are arranged parallel with it. In the rest of the bone they radiate from the posterior articular surface towards the other parts of the bone. Ossificatiou. — The patella is ossified from a single centre, which usually makes its appearance in the second or third year, but may be delayed mitil the sixth year. More rarely, the bone is developed by two centres, placed side by side. Ossification is completed about the age of puberty. Articulations. — The patella articulates with the femur. Surface Form. — The external surface of the patella can be felt in front of the knee. In the extended position of the limb the inner border of the bone is a little more pro- minent than the outer, and if the Quadriceps extensor be relaxed, the