1202 SPLANCHNOLOGY tube is empty. Small papilte are found upon it, near the orifice ; in tlie uijjier tw^o-thirds its epithelial lining is of the transitional variety ; it then becomes columnar in shape until near the meatus, where it is squamous and stratified. The submucous tissue consists of a vascular erectile layer ; outside this is a layer of unstriped muscular hbres, arranged in a circular direction, which separates the mucous membrane and submucous tissue from the tissue of the corpus spongiosum. Apflied Analcnny.—The urethra may be ruptured by the patient falling astride of any hard substance and striking his perinajum, so that the m-ethra is crushed against the pubic arch. Bleeding will at once take place from the urethra, and this, together with the bruising in the perinteum and the history of the accident, will point to the nature of the injury. Rupture of the urethra is due in other cases to the perforation of a periurethral abscess. Extravasation of urine most frequently takes place into the perinasum in front of the triangular ligament, i.e. under the fascia of Colles. Both these layers of fascia are attached firmly to the ischio-pubic rami. It is clear, therefore, that when extravasation of fluid takes place between them, it cannot pass backwards, because the two layers are continuous with, each other around the Transversus perinaji muscles ; it cannot extend laterally, on account of the connection of both these layers to the rami of the pubis and ischium ; it cannot find its way into the pelvis, because the opening into this cavity is closed by the triangular ligament, and, therefore, so long as these two layers remain intact, the only direction in which the fluid can make its way is forwards into the areolar tissue of the scrotum and penis, and thence on to the anterior wall of the abdomen. Gonorrhoea is an acute inflammatory infection of the mucous membrane of the urethra which is very prevalent. The causative organisms (gonococci) pass through the mucous membrane into the submucous tissue, and most serious complications and results may follow. In most cases the disease remains limited to the part of the lu'ethra in front of the ' shut-oli muscle,' or Compressor urethrse, but in some (about 10 per cent.) the ' posterior urethra' becomes involved in the process, leading to an inflammation of the openings of the prostatic folHcles. Such a condition is apt to continue as a very chronic form of prostatitis, and in many cases the infection will spread along the vas, giving rise to epididymitis. The anatomy of the urethra is of considerable importance in coimection wth the passage of instruments into the bladder. Otis was the fkst to point out that the urethra is capable of great dilatability, so that, excepting through the external meatus, an instrument corresponding to 18 English gauge (29 French) can usually be passed -ndthout damage. The orifice of the m-ethra is not so dilatable, and therefore fi-equently requir-es shtting. A recognition of this dilatability caused Bigelow to very considerably modify the operation of lithotrity and introduce that of litholapaxy. In passing catheters, especially fine ones, the point of the instrimient should be kept as far as possible along the upper waU of the canal, as it is otherwise very hable to enter one of the lacunae. Stricture of the urethra is a disease of very common occurrence, and is generally situated in the spongy part of the urethra, most commonly in the bulbous portion, just in front of the membranous urethra, but in a very considerable mrmber of cases in the penile or ante-scrotal part of the canal. The strictui-e usually results from the contraction of inflammatory products in the submucous tissue, the result, in the vast majority of all cases, of a prolonged gleet following gonorrhoea. Urethral stricture, however, follows rupture of that tube resulting from falls on the perinteum, and in this variety is very dense, and is a most unsatisfactory condition with regard to treatment. C!ongcmtal stricture is also occasionally met with, and in such cases multiple strictm-es may be present throughout the whole length of the spongy portion. Conc^enital defects of the urethra occur occasionally. The one most frequently met with is where there is a cleft on the floor of the urethra o^dng to an arrest of umon m the middle line. This is known as hypospadias, and the cleft may vary m extent. The simplest and by far the most common form is where the deficiency is confined to the glans penis. The urethra ends at the point where the extremity of the prepuce joins the body of the penis, in a small valve-like opening. The prepuce is also cleft on its under sur ace and forms a sort of hood over the glans. There is a depression on the glans in the position of the normal meatus. This condition produces no disabiUty and requu-es no treatment. In more severe cases the penile portion of the uiethra is cleft throughout its entire lengtli, and the opening of the urethra is at the ])oint of junction of the penis and scrotum, ihe under surface of the penis in the middle line presents a furrow lined by a moist mucous membrane, on either side of which is often more or less dense fibrous tissue stretching from the glans to the opening of the urethra, which prevents complete erection taking place. Great discomfort is induced during micturition, and connection is imiiossible. Ihe con- ditionmay be remedied by a series of plasHc opcrarions. Thcworst forniof this condition is where the urethra is deficient as far back as the perineum, and the scrotum is cleit. llie penis is small and bound down between the two halves of the scrotum, so ns to i.esemble an hypertrophied clitoris. The testes are often retained. ^, f'*"; therefore, very much resembles the external organs of generation ot the female, and nian^ children the victims of this malformation have been biought^up as girls, ihe na'^j^^ the scrotum, deficient of testes, resemble the labia, the cleft between them looks hke the