DEVELOPMENT OF URINARY AND GENERATIVE ORGANS 173 ainone them' They can be further recognised by their irregular form and amoeboid OTOCc&es and by the fact that their cytoplasm has no affinity for ordinary stams, but assumes a brownish tinge when treated by osmic acid. The path along which they travel into the embryo is a very definite one—viz. ' from the yolk-sac upwards between the splanchnopleure and giit in the hinder portion of the embryo.' This pathway, named by jfeard the germinal path, ' leads them directly to the position which they ought fanally to take up in the " germinal ridge " or nidus.' A considerable number apparently never reach their proper destination, since ' vagrant germ-cells are found in all sorts of places, hut more particularly on the mesentery.' Some of these may possibly find their way into t he germinal ridge ; some probably undergo atrophy, while others may persist and become the seat of dermoid tumours. The testis is developed in a very similar way to the ovary. Like the ovary, ill its earliest stages it consists of a"^ central mass of connective tissue covered by iverminal epithelium, among which larger cells, the p-imitive sperm-celb, are seen. These are carried into the subjacent stroma by tubes of germinal epithelium, which form the lining of the seminiferous tubules, wliile the primitive sperm- cells form the spermatogonia. The seminiferous tubules become connected with outgrowths from the Wolffian body, which, as before mentioned, form the rete testis and vasa efferentia. Descent of the testes.—The testes, at an early period of fcetal life, are placed at the back part of the abdominal ca\dty, behind the peritoneum and a httle below the kidneys ; their anterior surfaces and sides are invested by peri- toneum. About the third month of intra-uterine Hfe a peculiar structure, the gubernaculum testis, makes its appearance. This is at first a slender band, extending from that part of the skin of the groin which afterwards forms the scrotum through the inguinal canal to the body and epididymis of the testis, and thence continued upwards in front of the kidney towards the Diaphragm. As development advances, the peritoneum covering the testis encloses it and forms a mesentery, the mesorchium, which encloses also the gubernaculum and forms two folds, one above the testis and the other below it. The one above the testis is the flica vascularis, and contains ultimately the spermatic vessels ; the one below, the flica guhernatrix, contains the lower part of the gubernaculum, which has now grown into a thick cord ; it terminates below at the internal ring in a tube of peritoneum, the processus vaginalis, which protrudes itself down the inguinal canal. The lower part of the gubernaculum by the fifth month has become a thick cord, while the upper pai-t has disappeared. The lower part can now be seen to consist of a central core of imstriped muscle-fibre, and outside this of a firm layer of striped elements, connected, behind the peritoneum, with the abdominal wall. As the scrotum develops, the main portion of the lower end of the gubernaculum is carried with the skin to which it is attached to the bottom of this pouch ; other bands are carried to the inner side of the thigh and to the perineum. The fold of peritoneum constituting the processus vaginalis proj ects itself downwards into the inguinal canal, and emerges at the external abdominal ring, pushing before it apart of the Internal oblique and the apoueiirosis of the External obUque, which form respectively the Cremaster muscle and the external spermatic fascia. It forms a gradually elongating pouch or cul-de-sac, which eventually reaches the bottom of the scrotum, and behind this the testis is drawn by the growth of the body of the foetus, for the gubernaculum does not grow commensurately with the growth of other parts, and therefore the testis, being attached by the gubernaculum to the bottom of the scrotum, is prevented from rising as the body • grows, and is drawn first into the inguinal canal and eventually into the scrotum. It seems certain also that the gubernacular cord becomes shortened as develop- ment proceeds, and this assists in causing the testis to reach the bottom of the scrotum. By the eighth month the testis has reached the scrotum, preceded by the lengthened pouch of peritoneum, the processus vaginahs, which com- municates by its upper extremity with the peritoneal cavity. Just before birth the upper part of the pouch usually becomes closed, and this obhteration extends gradually downwards to within a short distance of the testis. The process of peritoneum surrounding the testis is now entirely cut ofi from the general peritoneal cavity and constitutes the tunica vaginalis.* * The obliteration of the process of peritoneum wliich accompanies the cord, and is hence called the funionlar process, is often incomplete.