DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART 141 of the tube; these increase in size, and ultimately meet and fuse to form the seXm and thus the primitive aortic stem is divided into the pulmonary artery and the aorta. The aortic septum takes a spiral course towards the proximal end nf the stem so that the two vessels lie side by side above, but near the heart pulmonary artery is in front of the aorta (fig, 188) The septum grows down into S ventricle as an obhque partition, which ultimately blends with the ventricular septum in such a way as to bring the bulbus cordis into communication 3 the pulmonary artery, and through the latter with the sixth pair of aortic arches ; while the left ventricle is brought into continmty with the aorta, which communicates with the remaining aortic arches. j i j • The valves of the heart.—The auriculo-ventricular valves are developed in relation to the auricular canal. By the upward expansion of the bases of the ventricles the canal becomes invaginated into the ventricular cavities ihe invaginated margin forms the rudiments of the lateral cusps o the auriculo-ven- tricidar valves ; the mesial or septal cusps of the valves are developed as downward prolongations of the septum intermedium. The aortic and pulmonary valves are Fig. 189.—Interior of dorsal half of heart from a human embryo 10 mm. long. (His.) ; Septum apuriam Opening of sinus venosus I Left venous valve Septum primum Bight venous valve Spina vestiluli Posteriirr endocardial cushion Auricular canal Septum inferius formed from four endocardial thickenings—an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral—which appear at the proximal end of the primitive aortic stem. As the aortic septum grows downwards it divides each of the lateral thickenings into two, thus giving rise to six thickenings—the rudiments of the semilunar valves—three at the aortic and three at the pulmonary orifice. Further Development of the Arteries.—It has been seen (page 136) that each primitive aorta consists of a ventral and a dorsal part which are continuous through the first aortic arch. The dorsal aortse at first rmi backwards separately on either side of the notochord, but about the third week they fuse from about the level of the fourth thoracic to that of the fourth lumbar segment to form a single trunk, the descending aorta. The first aortic arches pass through the mandibular arches, and behind them five additional pairs are developed within the visceral arches; so that, in all, six pairs of aortic arches are formed (fig. 191). The first and second arches pass between the ventral and dorsal aortse, while the others arise at first by a common trunk from the aortic bulb, but terminate separately in the dorsal aortse. As the neck elongates, the ventral