CUNEIFORM BONES 357 Fig. 408.—The left internal cuneiform, a. Antero- internal view. B. Postero-external view. For Isf metatarsal For 2nd metatarsal For mid-cuneiform The internal surface is subcutaneous, and forms part of the kiner border of the foot; it is broad, quadrilateral, and presents at its anterior inferior angle a smooth oval impression, into wliich part of the tendon of the Tibialis anticus is inserted ; in the rest of its extent it is rough for the attachment of ligaments. The external surface is concave, presenting, along its superior and posterior borders, a narrow reversed L-shaped surface, the vertical Imib and posterior part of the horizontal limb of which articulate witli the middle cuneiform, and the an- terior part of the hori- zontal limb with the second metatarsal bone : the rest of this surface is rough for the attachment of ligaments and part of the tendon of the Pero- neus longus. The anterior surface, kidney - shaped and much larger than the posterior, articulates with the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The pos- ferior surface is triangiilar, concave, and articulates with the innermost and largest of the three facets For tendon of Tibialis anticus For navicular on the anterior surface of the navicular. The inferior or plantar surface ia rough, and forms the base of the wedge ; at its back part is a prominent tuberosity for the insertion of part of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. It also gives insertion in front to part of the tendon of the Tibialis anticus. The superior surface is the narrow pointed end of the wedge, and is du-ected ujawards and outwards; it is rough for the attachment of ligaments. Articulations, — The internal cuneiform articulates with four bones : the na%dcular, middle cuneiform and first and second metatarsals. The Middle Ctjneifoem (fig. 409) The Middle Cuneiform (os cuneiforme secundum), the smallest of the three, is of very regular wedge-like form, the broad extremity being placed upwards, the narrow end downwards. It is situated between the other two cuneiforms, and articulates Fig. 409.—The left middle cimeiform. a. Antero- internal view. b. Postero-external view. For int. cuneiform For navicular with the navicular behind, and the second metatarsal in front. The anterior surface, tri- angular m form, and narrower than the posterior, articulates with the base of the second metatarsal bone. The posterior surface, also triangular, articu- lates with the middle facet on the anterior surface of the navicular. The internal surface presents a reversed L-shaped articular facet, running along the superior and posterior borders, for articulation with the internal cunei- form, and is rough in the rest of its extent for the attachment of ligaments, ihe external surface presents posteriorly a smooth facet for articulation with the external cuneiform bone. The superior surface forms the base of the wedge ; it is quadi-ilateral, broader behind than in front, and rough for the attachment of ligaments. The inferior surface, sharp and tubercular, is also rough for ligamentous attachment, and for the insertion of a slip from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. For Ind metatarsal For ext. cuneiform