1172 SPLANCHNOLOGY Fig! !)68.—The gall-bladder and bile- diicts laid open. (Spalteholz.) Gall- bladchu Sepatic duct The gall-bladder (vesica fellea) (fig. 968) is a conical or pear-shaped musculo- mciubraiious sac, lodged in a fossa on the under surface of the right lobe of the livpr, and extending from near the light extremity of the transverse fissure to the anterior border of tlie organ. It is from tliree to four inches in lengtli, one incli in breadth at its widest part, and holds from eight to ten di-achms. It is divided into a fundus, body, and neck. The fundus, or broad extremity, is directed downwards, forwards, and to the right, and projects beyond the anterior border of the liver ; the body and neck lie in the fossa vesicaUs, and are directed upwards and backwards to the left. The upper surface of the gall-bladder is attached to the hver by connective tissue and vessels. The under surface is covered by peritoneum, which is reflected on to it from the surface of the hver. Occasionally the whole of the organ is invested by the serous membrane, and is then connected to the liver by a kind of mesentery. Relations.—The body (corpus vesicae fellese) is in relation, by its upper surface, with the hver, to which it is connected by areolar tissue and vessels ; by its under surface, with the commencement of the transverse colon ; and farther back usually with the upper end of the descending portion of the duodenum, but sometimes with the first portion of the duodenum or pyloric end of the stomach. The fundus (fundus vesicaj fellese) is completely in- vested by peritoneum; it is in relation, in front, vni\\ the abdominal ]5arietes, im- mediately below the ninth costal cartilage ; beliind ^ith the transverse arch of the colon. The nech (collum vesicae fellese) is narrow, and curves upon itself hke tlie letter S ; at its point of connection mth the cystic duct it presents a well-marked constriction. Structure (fig. 969).—The gall-bladder consists of three coats: serous, fibrous and muscular, and mucous. i i. i • „„(.„ The external or serous coat is derived from the peritoneum ; it completely mvests the fundus, but covers the body and neck only on their under surfaces. , , The tibro-muscular coat, a thin but strong layer forming the framewoi-k of the sac, consists of dense fibrous tissue, which interlaces in all directions, and is imxed with plain muscular fibres, disposed chiefly in a longitudinal direction, a few runmng *™ TheSr'ri«i or mucous coat is loosely connected with the fibrous layer. It is ge»erall.v of a yellovvish-brown colom-, and is elevated into minute ruga^ Opposite the ""^ck of the gall-bladder the mucous membrane projects inwards in the form of oblique ridges or folds, forming a sort of spnal valve (valvula spkalis). . , ^ -^i The mucous membrane is^ontinuous through the hepatic ^"^'t^hji^ mucous membrane lining the ducts of the liver, and through the common bile-duct ^Mtll tue Srous meSne of the alimentary canal. It is covered with -l^-r epithehum, and secretes mucin ; in some animals it secretes a nucleo-protem instead of mucin. The cystic duct (ductus cysticus), about an inch and a half in length, runs backwLi doNniwaixls, and to the left from tlie neck of the gall-bladder, and roTns th^tptdc duct to form the common bile-duct. r::'Z:r^Z lining its interior is thrown into a series o crescent.c fo ds. from fi^'^ to t^^e ^e in number, similar to those found in the neck of the g«jl-bMer ihe.^ project into the duct in regular succession, and arc directed obhquelj round Common bile- duct