941 TWELFTH CRANIAL NERVE descends in front of the sheath of the carotid vessels, giving off a branch to the anterior belly of tlie Omo-liyoid, and then joins the descendens cervicis (ramus communicans hypoglossi) from the second and third cervical nerves, just below the middle of the neck, to form a loop, the ansa hypoglossi. From the con- vexity of this loop branches pass to supply the Sterno-hyoid, the Sterno- thyroid, and the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid. Accordmg to Arnold, another filament descends in front of the vessels into the chest, and joins the cardiac and phrenic nerves. The thyro-hyoid branch (ramus thyreohyoideus) arises from the hypoglossal near the posterior border of the Hyo-glossus ; it runs obliquely across the great cornu of the Iiyoid bone, and supplies the Thyro-hyoid muscle. The muscular branches are distributed to the Stylo-gloss us, Hyo-glossus, Genio-hyoid, and Genio-hyo-glossus muscles. At the under surface of the tongue numerous slender branches pass upwards into the substance of the organ to supply its intrinsic muscles. Applied Anatomy.—^The hypoglossal nerve is an important guide in the operation of ligature of the lingual artery (see page 631). It runs forwards on the Hyo-glossus just above the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and forms the upper boundary of the triangular space in which the artery is to be sought for by cutting through the fibres of the Hyo- glossus. In cases where it has been injured on one side of the neck, or in some cases of bulbar paralysis, unilateral paralysis, together with hemiatrophy of the tongue, is the result ; the tongue, when protruded, being directed to the paralysed side owing to the unopposed action of the Genio-hyo-glossus of the opposite side. On retraction, the wasted and paralysed side of the tongue rises up higher than the other. The larynx may deviate towards the sound side on swallowing, from the unilateral paralysis of the depressors of the hyoid bone. If the paralysis is bilateral, the tongue Ues motionless in the mouth, while articulation and mastication are much interfered with. THE SPINAL NERVES (NERVI SPINALES) The spinal nerves spring from the spinal cord, and are transmitted through the intervertebral foramina. They number thirty-one pairs, which are grouped as follows : Cervical, 8 ; Thoracic, 12; Lumbar, 5; Sacral, 5 ; Coccygeal, 1. The first cervical nerve emerges from the vertebral canal between the occipital bone and the atlas, and is therefore called the suboccipital nerve (n. suboccipi- talis): the eighth issues between the seventh cervical and first tlioracic vertebrae. Nerve roots.—Each nerve is attached to the spinal cord by two roots, an anterior or ventral, and a posterior or dorsal, the latter being characterised by the presence of a ganglion, the spinal ganglion. The anterior root (radix anterior) emerges from the anterior surface of the cord as a number of rootlets or fasciculi (fila radicularia), which coalesce to form two bundles near the intervertebral foramen. The posterior root (radix posterior) is larger than the anterior owing to the greater size and number of its fasciculi ; these are attached along tlie postero- lateral furrow of the spinal cord and unite to form two bundles which join the spinal ganglion. The posterior root of the first cervical nerve is exceptional in tliat it is smaller than the anterior; it is occasionally wanting. The spinal ganglia (ganglia spinalia) are collections of nerve cells on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. Each ganglion is oval in shape, reddish in colour, and its size bears a proportion to that of tlie nerve root on which it is situated ; it is bifid internally where it is joined by the two bundles of the posterior nerve root. The ganglia are usually placed in the intervertebral foramina, immediately outside the points where the nerve roots perforate the dura mater, but there are exceptions to this rule; thus the ganglia of tlie first and second cervical nerves lie on the neural arches of the atlas and axis respectivel}!^ those of the sacral nerves are inside the vertebral canal, whUe