PARIETAL BONES 219 The superior border (margo sagiLtalis), the longest and thickest, is dentated and articulates with its fellow of the opposite side, forming the sagittal suture. The inferior border (margo squamosus) is divided into three parts : of t hese, the anterior is thin and pointed, bevelled at the expense of the outer surface, and overlapped by the tip of the great Aving of the sphenoid; the middle portion is arched, bevelled at the expense of the outer surface, and overlapped by the squamous portion of the temporal; the posterior part is tliick and serrated for articulation with the mastoid portion of the temporal. The anterior border (margo frontalis) is deeply serrated, and bevelled at tlie expense of the outer surface above and of the inner below; it articulates with the frontal bone, forming one half of the coronal suture. The posterior border (margo occipitalis), deeply denticulated, articulates with the occipital, forming one half of the lambdoid suture. The antero-superior angle (angulus frontalis), thin and pointed, corresponds ^^ ith the union of the sagittal and coronal sutures ; this point is named the Fig. 289.—^Left parietal bone. Internal siu-face. bregma; in the foetal skuU this region is membranous, and is called the anterior fontanelle. The antero-inferior angle (angulus sphenoidalis), thin and pointed, is received into the interval between the frontal and the great wing of the sphenoid. Its inner surface is marked by a deep groove, sometimes a canal, for the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery. The postero-superior angle (angulus occipitalis) corresponds with the point of junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures—a point which is termed the lambda ; in the foetus this part of the skull is membranous, and is called the posterior fontanelle. The postero-inferior angle (angulus mastoideus) articulates with, the occipital and with the mastoid portion of the temporal, and presents on its inner surface a broad, shallow gi-oove which lodges part of the lateral sinus. The point of union of this angle with the occipital and the mastoid part of the temporal is named the asterion. Ossification.—The parietal bone is ossified in membrane from a single centre, which appears at the parietal eminence about the seventh or eighth