SACRAL PLEXUS 979 a lower branch, the former entering the sacral and the latter the pudendal ^^^Tlie nerves forming the sacral plexus converge towards the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and unite to form a flattened band, from tlie anterior and posterior surfaces of which several branches arise. The band itself is continued as the great sciatic nerve, which splits on the back of the thigh into the internal and external popliteal nerves ; these two nerves sometimes arise separate^ from the plexus, and in all cases their independence can be shown by dissection. Relations.—The sacral plexus lies on the back of the pelvis between the Pyriformis and the pelvic fascia (fig. 810) ; in front of it are the internal iliac vessels, the ureter and the pelvic colon. The gluteal vessels run between the lumbo-'sacral cord and the first sacral nerve, and the sciatic vessels between the second and third sacral nerves. All the. nerves entering the plexus, with the exception of the third sacral, split into ventral and dorsal divisions, and the nerves arising from these are as foUows : ... Ventral divisions. Dorsal divisions. Nerve to Quadratus femoris I 4. 5 l i g and Inferior gemellus I ' Nerve to Obturator internus 1. 5 l i 2 S and Superior gemellus . ) ' ' Nerve to Pyriformis (1)2S. Superior gluteal 4, 5 L, 1 S. Inferior gluteal • o Li, L, Z o. Small sciatic . . . . 2, 3 S . . 1, 2 S. Great (Internal popliteal 4, 5 L, 1, 2, 3 S. sciatic {External popliteal . . . . 4, 5 L, 1, 2 S. The nerve to the ftuadratus femoris and Inferior gemellus arises from the ventral divisions of the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves : it leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the Pyriformis. and runs down m front of the great sciatic nerve, the Gemelli and the tendon of the Obturator internus, and enters the anterior surfaces of the muscles ; it gives an articular branch to the hip-joiat. The nerve to the Obturator internus arises from the ventral divisions of the fifth lumbar and first and second sacral nerves : . it leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen below the Pyriformis muscle, crosses the ischial spine, re-enters the pelvis through the small sacro-sciatic foramen, and ends, after entering the pelvic surface of the muscle, in the Obturator internus. The branch to the Gemellus superior enters the upper part of the posterior surface of the muscle. The nerve to the Pyriformis arises from the dorsal division of the second, or the dorsal divisions of the first and second, sacral nerves, and enters the anterior surface of the muscle : this nerve may be double. The superior gluteal (n. glutseus superior) arises from the dorsal divisions of the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves : it leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen above the Pyriformis, accompanied by the gluteal vessels, and divides into a superior and an inferior branch. The superior branch accompanies the upper branch of the deep division of the gluteal artery and ends in the Gluteus minimus. The inferior branch runs with the lower branch of the gluteal artery across the Gluteus minimus ; it gives filaments to the Gluteus medius and Gluteus minimus, and ends in the Tensor fascice femoris. The inferior gluteal (n. glutseus inferior) arises from the dorsal di^^sions of the fifth lumbar and first and second sacra! nerves : it leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the Pyriformis, and divides into branches which enter the deep surface of the Gluteus maximus. The small sciatic (n. cutaneus femoris posterior) is distributed to the skin of the perinseum and posterior surface of the thigh and leg. It arises partly from the ventral and partly from the dorsal divisions of the first, second, and third sacral nerves, and issues from the pelvis through the great sacro- sciatic foramen below the Pyriformis. It then descends beneath the Gluteus maximus with the sciatic artery, and runs down the back of the thigh beneath 3 R 2