SPLANCHNOLOGY 1246 is a short furrow termed the hilus, from which the suprarenal vein emerges to join the inferior vena cava. The 'posterior surface is divided into upper and lower parts by a curved ridge : the upper, slightly convex, rests upon the Diaphragm ; the lower, concave, is in contact with the upper end and tlie adjacent part of the anterior surface of the kidney. The left suprarenal, slightly larger than the right, is crescentic in shape, its concavity being adapted to the inner border of the upper part of the left Iddney. It presents an inner border which is convex, and an outer which is concave ; its upjier border is narrow, and its lower rounded. Its anterior surface has two areas : an upper one, covered by the peritoneum forming the lesser sac, Avhich separates it from the cardiac end of the stomach and some- times from the superior extremity of the spleen ; and a lower one, which is in contact with the pancreas and splenic artery, and is therefore not covered by the peritoneum. On the anterior surface, near its lower end, is a furrow or hilus, directed downwards and forwards, from which the supra,renal vein emerges. Its posterior surface presents a vertical ridge, which divides it into two areas ; the outer area rests on the kidney, the inner and smaller, on the left crus of the Diaphragm. The surface of the suprarenal gland is surrounded by areolar tissue containing much fat, and closely invested by a thin fibrous capsule, which is difficult to remove on account of the numerous fibrous processes and vessels entering the organ tlirough the furrows on its anterior surface and base. Small accessory suprarenals are often to be found in the connective tissue round the suprarenals. The smaller of these, on section, show a uniform surface, but in some of the larger a distinct medulla can be made out. Structure.—On section, the suprarenal gland is seen to consist of two portions: an external or cortical, and an internal or medullary. The former constitutes the chief part of the organ and is of a deep yellow colour ; the medullary substance is soft, pulpy, and ot a dark red or brown colom-. i ■ u • • K„^^„,q The cortical portion consists of a fine connective-tissue network, m which is imbeddea the glandular epithelium. The epithelial cells are polyhedral in shape aiid possess rounded nuclei ; many of the cells contain coarse granules, others fat globules. Owing to differences in the arrangement of the cells three distinct zones can be made out: (1) the zona glomerulosa, situated beneath the capsule, consists of cells arranged in rounded groups with here and there indications of an alveolar structm-e ; the cells of this zone are ^ely granular and stain deeply. (2) The zorw. fascicuUila, continuous ^vltll the zona glome™losa. is composed of quadrilateral groups of cells arranged in a radia manner; the^e cells contTn finer granules and in many instances fat globules. (3 The zona '■r'<'-"'«7;;" contact mth the medulla, consists of cylindncal ma.sses of cells ^"XK\irea ancc these cells often contain pigment granules wluch give thus zone a darkci appearance J^l^S^^S:^ is extremely vascular, and is. comp^ed oi^^^^^ of connective tislue surrounding a large plexus of veins and "^^^^^[^^ muscular fibres. In addition to the veins. 'n"l<'-'"'<^'<^«^«V''T„L? TontdnS scattered throughout the medulla as well as many irregular-shaped cells contammg pigment The cell-protoplas„i has an especial affinity for chromic salts, wl^ich stain it a rown colour. Such eel s are therefore termed chromaffin rdh. This PO'-tJ"" gland is richly supplied with non-medullated nerve-fibres, and here and there sympathetic ganglia are found.