1205 THE TESTES AND THEIR COVERINGS oblique canal, about an inch and a half in length, directed downwards and inwards, and placed parallel with, and a little above, Poupart's ligament. It commences, above, at the internal or deep abdominal ring, which is the point where the cord enters the inguinal canal; and terminates, below, at the external or superficial ring. It is bounded, in front, by the integument and superficial fascia, by the aponeurosis of the External oblique throughout its whole length, and by the Internal oblique for its outer third ; behind, by the triangular fascia, the conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis, tlie transversalis fascia, and the subperitoneal fat and peritoneum ; above, by the arched fibres of the Internal oblique and Transversalis ; below, by the union of the transversalis fascia with Poupart's ligament. The spermatic cord (funiculus spermaticus) extends from the internal or deep abdominal ring, where the structures of which it is composed con- verge, to the back part of the testicle. In the abdominal wall the cord passes obliquely along the inguinal canal, Ijring at first beneath the Internal oblique, and upon the fascia transversalis ; but nearer the pubis, it rests upon Poupart's ligament, having the aponeurosis of the External oblique in front of it, and the conjoined tendon beliind it. It then escapes at the external ring, and descends nearly vertically into the scrotum. The left cord is rather longer than the right, consequently the left testis hangs somewhat lower than its fellow. structure of the spermatic cord.—The spermatic cord is composed of arteries, veins, lymphatics, nerves, and tlie excretory duct of the testicle. These structures are connected together by areolar tissue, and invested by the layers brought down by the testis in its descent. The arteries of the cord are: the spermatic, from the aorta; the artery of the vas deferens, from the superior vesical ; and the cremasteric, from the deep epigastric. The spermaiic artery, a branch of the abdominal aorta, escapes from the abdomen at the internal or deep abdominal ring, and accompanies the other constituents of the spermatic cord along the inguinal canal and through the external abdominal ring into the scrotum. It then descends to the testis, and, becoming tortuous, divides into several branches, two or three of which accompany the vas deferens and supply the epididymis, anastomosing with the artery of the vas deferens: the others supply the substance of the testis. The cremasteric artery is a branch of the deep epigastric artery. It accompanies the spermatic cord and supplies the Cremaster muscle and other coverings of the cord, anastomosing with the spermatic artery. The artery of the vas deferens, a branch of the superior vesical, is a long slender vessel, which accompanies the vas deferens, ramifying upon the coats of that duct, and anastomosing with the spermatic artery near the testis. The spermatic veins emerge from the back of the testis, and receive tributaries from the epididymis: they unite and form a convoluted plexus (plexus pampiniformis), which forms the chief mass of the cord ; the vessels composing this plexus are very numerous, and ascend along the cord in front of the vas deferens ; below the external or superficial abdominal ring they unite to form three or four veins, which pass along the inguinal canal, and, entering the abdomen through the internal or deep abdominal rmg, coalesce to form two veins. These again unite to form a single vein, which opens on the right side into the inferior vena cava, at an acute angle, and on the left side into the renal vein, at a right angle. The lymphatic vessels terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are the spermatic plexus from the sympathetic, joined by filaments from the pelvic plexus which accompany the artery of the vas deferens. Applied Anatomy.—The sci'otum forms an admirable covering for the protection of the testes. These bodies, lying suspended and loose in the cavity of the scrotum and surrounded by serous membrane, are capable of great mobility, and can therefore easily shp about within the scrotum, and thus avoid injuries from blows or squeezes. The skin of the scrotum is very elastic and capable of great distension, and on account of the looseness and amount of subcutaneous tissue, the scrotum becomes greatly enlarged in cases of oedema, to which this part is especially liable as a result of its dependent position. The scrotiun is occasionally the seat of epithelioma ; this is no doubt due to the ruga; on its surface, which favour the lodgment of dirt, and this, producing irritation, is the exciting cause of the disease, which is especially common in chimney-sweeps from the lodgment of soot. The disease is very much less common than it used to be ; this is probably due to the better hygienic conditions of the working classes. The scrotum is also the part most frequently affected by elephantiasis. On account of the looseness of the subcutaneous tissue, large extravasations of blood may take place from very slight injuries. It is therefore generally recommended never to apply leeches to the scrotum, since they may lead to ecchymosis, but rather to puncture one or more of the superficial veins of the scrotum in cases where local