653 ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN of Willis (circulus arteriosus). It is formed in front by the anterior cerebral arteries, branches of the internal carotid, which are connected together by the anterior communicating ; behind by the two posterior cerebral arteries, branches of the basilar, winch are connected on either side with the internal carotid by the pos- terior communicating (figs. 582, 588). The parts of the brain included within this arterial circle are the lamina terminalis, the optic commissm-e, the infundibulum, the tuber cinereum, the corpora albicantia, and the posterior perforated space. The three trunks which together supply each cerebral hemisphere arise from the circle of Willis. From its anterior part proceed the two anterior cerebrals; from its antero-lateral parts the middle cerebrals, and from its posterior part the posterior cerebrals. Each of these principal arteries gives origin to two different systems of secondary vessels. One of these is named the central ganglionic system, and the vessels belonging to it supply the central ganglia of the brain ; the other is the cortical system, and its vessels ramify in the pia mater and supply the cortex and subjacent brain substance. These two systems do not communicate at any point of their peripheral distribution, but are entirely independent of each other, Fig. 589.—Distribution of the cortical arteries. (After Charcot.) 1. Sledullary arteries. 1'. Group of medullary arteries in Uie sulcus between two adjacent convolutions. 1'. Arteries situated among the sliort association fibres. 2, 2. Cortical arteries, a. Capillary network witli fairly wide meshes, situated beneath the pia mater, b. Network with more compact, polygonal meshes, situated in tlie cortex, c. Transitional network with wider meshes, d. Capillary network in the white matter. and there is between the parts supplied by the two systems a borderland of diminished nutritive activity, where, it is said, softening is especially liable to occur in the brains of old people. The central ganglionic system.—All the vessels of this system are given oS from the circle of Willis, or from the vessels close to it; so that if a circle be drawn parallel to and at a distance of about an inch from the ckcle of Willis, it will include the origins of all the arteries belonging to this system (fig. 588). These vessels form six principal groups : (i) the antero-median group, derived fi'om the anterior cerebrals and anterior communicating; (ii) the postero-median group, from the posterior cerebrals and posterior communicating ; (iii and iv) the right and left antero-lateral groups, from the middle cerebrals ; and (v and vi) the right and left postei-o-lateral groups, from the posterior cerebrals, after they have woimd round the crura cerebri. The vessels of this system are larger than those of the cortical system, and are what Cohnheim has designated ' terminal' arteries—that IS to say, vessels which from their origin to their termination neither supply nor receive any anastomotic branch, so that, through any one of the vessels only a