KISTEE-JOINT 437 The axes round which the movements of flexion and extension take place are not precisely at right angles to either bone; in flexion, the femur and tibia are in the same plane, but in extension the one bone forms an angle with the other. In addition to the rotatory movements associated with the completion of extension and the initiation of flexion, rotation inwards or outwards can be efiected when the joint is partially flexed. These latter rotatory movements take place mainly between the tibia and the semilunar cartilages, and are freest when the leg is bent at right angles with the thigh. Movements of Patella.—The articular surface of the patella is indistinctly divided into seven facets—upper, middle, and lower horizontal pairs, and an internal perpendicular facet (fig. 474). When the knee is forcibly flexed, the internal perpendicular facet is in contact with the semilunar surface on the outer part of the internal condyle ; this semilmiar surface is a prolongation backwards of the inner part of the trochlea. As the leg is carried from the flexed to the extended position, first the uppermost pair, then the middle pair, and lastly the lowest pair of horizontal facets are successively brought into contact with the trochlear surface of the femur. In the extended position, when the Quadriceps extensor is relaxed, the patella Hes loosely on the front of the lower end of the femur. Dming flexion, the ligamentum patellae is put upon the stretch, and in extreme flexion so also is the posterior crucial ligament; the lateral and posterior liga- ments, and, to a slight extent, the anterior crucial heament, are relaxed. Flexion is checked during ^ , . ,. hfe by the contact of the leg with the thigh. When f/^'-^f ,, , ■ ■ J. ■ { u i J J ii. 1 i- 1 J of the right patella, show- the knee-]omt is fully extended the lateral and pos- ■ diagrammatically the tenor hgaments, the anterior crucial hgament, and ^reas of contact with the the inner part of the posterior crucial ligament, are femui-in different positions rendered tense ; in the act of extending the knee, of the knee, the hgamentum patellse is tightened by the Quad- riceps extensor, but in full extension with the heel supported it is relaxed. Eotation inwards is checked by the anterior crucial ligament; rotation outwards tends to imcross and relax the crucial ligaments, but is checked by the internal lateral hgament. The main function of the crucial ligaments is to act as a direct bond between the tibia and femur and to prevent the former bone from being carried too far backwards or forwards. They also assist the lateral ligaments in resisting any lateral bending of the joint. The interarticular cartilages are in- tended, as it seems, to adapt the surface of the tibia to the shape of the femur to a certain extent, so as to fill up the intervals which would otherwise be left in the varying positions of the joint, and to obviate the jars which would be so frequently transmitted up the limb in jumping or by falls on the feet; also to permit of the two varieties of motion, flexion and extension, and rotation, as explained above. The patella is a great defence to the Imee-joint from any injury inflicted in front, and it distributes upon a large and tolerably even surface, during loieehng, the pressure which would otherwise fall upon the prominent ridges of the condyles ; it also affords leverage to the Quadriceps extensor. When standing erect in the attitude of ' attention,' the weight of the body falls in front of a hue carried across the centres of the knee-joints, and therefore tends to produce over-extension of the articulations ; this, however, is prevented by the tension of the anterior crucial, posterior, and lateral ligaments. Extension of the leg on the thigh is performed by the Quadriceps extensor; flexion by the hamstring muscles, assisted by the Gracilis and Sartorius, and by the Gastrocnemius, Popliteus, and Plantaris. Rotation outivards is efiected by the Biceps, and rotation inwards by the Pophteus, Semitendinosus, and, to a slight extent, the Semimembranosus, the Sartorius, and the Gracihs. The Pophteus comes into action especially at the commencement of the movement of flexion of the knee; by its contraction the leg is rotated inwards, or, " the tibia be fixed, the thigh is rotated outwards, and the knee-joint is unlocked.