MUSCLES AJSri) FASCI/E OF THE FOREARM 549 with the Extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, of which it is usually regarded as a segment. The Extensor longus pollicis is much larger than the jireceding muscle, the origin of wliicli it partly covers. It arises from the outer part of the middle third of the posterior surface of tlie sliaft of the ulna below the origin of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and from the interosseous membrane. It terminates in a tendon, which passes through a separate compartment in the annular ligament, lying in a narrow, oblique groove at the bacit part of the lower end of tlie radius. It then crosses obliquely the tendons of the Extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, being separated from the otlier Extensor tendons of the thumb by a triangular interval, in which the radial artery is found ; and is finally inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. The radial artery is crossed by the tendons of aU three Extensors of the thumb as they pass from the radius to the digit. The Extensor indicis (m. extensor indicis proprius) is a narrow, elongated muscle, placed on the inner side of, and parallel with, the preceding. It arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the ulna below the origin of the Extensor longus pollicis, and from the interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes under the armular ligament in the same compartment as that which transmits the Extensor communis digitorum, and opposite the lower end of the corresjDonding metacarpal bone, joins the ulnar side of the tendon of tlie Extensor communis which belongs to the index finger. Nerves.^—The Brachio-radialis is suppUed by the fifth and sixth, the Extensores carpi radiaUs longior et brevior by the sixth and seventh, and the Anconeus b}' the seventh and eighth cervical nerves, all through the musculo-spiral nerve ; the remaining muscles are innervated through the posterior interosseous nerve, the Supinator brevis being supplied by the sixth cervical, and all the other muscles by the seventh cervical. Actions.—The muscles of the radial and posterior aspects of the forearm, which comprise all the Extensor and Supinator muscles, act upon the forearm, wrist, and hand ; they are the direct antagonists of the Pronator and Flexor muscles. The Anconeus assists the Triceps in extenduig the forearm. The Brachio-radiaHs is a flexor of the elbow-joint, but only acts as such when the movement of flexion has been initiated by the Biceps and Brachialis anticus. The Supinator brevis is a supinator : that is to say, when the radius has been carried across the uhia in pronation, and the back of the hand is directed forwards, this muscle carries the radius back again to the outer side of the ulna, and the palm of the hand is again directed forwards. The Extensor carpi radiaUs longior extends the wrist and abducts the hand. It may also assist in bending the elbow-joint; at all events it serves to fix or steady this articulation. The Extensor carpi radialis brevior assists the Extensor carpi radialis longior in extendmg the wrist, and may also act sHghtly as an abductor of the hand. The Extensor carpi ulnaris helps to extend the hand, but when acting alone inclines it towards the ulnar side : by its continued action it extends the elbow-joint. The Extensor communis digitorum extends the phalanges, then the wrist, and finally the elbow. It acts prmcipally on the proxknal phalanges, the middle and terminal phalanges being acted upon mainly by the Interossei and Lumbricales. It has also a tendency to separate the fingers as it extends them. The Extensor mnumi digiti extends the httle finger, and by its continued action assists in ex- tending the wrist. It is owing to this muscle that the little finger can be extended or pointed while the others are flexed. The chief action of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis is to carry the thumb outwards and backwards from the palm of the hand, and hence it has been called the Abductor follicis lonqus. Bv its con- tinued action it helps to extend and abduct the wrist. The Extensor brevis pollicis extends the proximal phalanx of the thumb. By its continued action it helps to extend and abduct the wrist. The Extensor longus pollicis extends the terminal phalanx of the thmnb. By its continued action it helps to extend and abduct the wrist. The Extensor indicis extends the index finger, and by its continued action assists ui extending the wrist. Applied Anatomy.—The tendons of the Extensor muscles of the thumb fire liable to become strained, and their sheaths inflamed, after excessive exercise, producing a sausage- shaped swelling along the com-se of the tendons and giving a peculiar grating sensation