921 SIXTH CRANIAL NERVE between the lower border of the pons and the upper end of the pyramid of the medulla oblongata. From the nucleus of the sixth nerve, fibres pass through the posterior longi- tudinal bundle to the oculo-motor nerve of the opposite side, along which they are carried to the Internal rectus muscle. The External rectus of one eye and the Internal rectus of the other may therefore be said to receive their nerves from the same nucleus—a factor of great importance in connection with the conjugate movements of the eyeball, and one that may explain certain paralytic phenomena of the Recti, which are often associated with lesions in the pons. The nerve pierces the dura mater on the basilar sui'face of the sphenoid bone, runs through a notch immediately below the posterior clinoid process, and enters the cavernous sinus. It passes forwards through the sinus, lying on the outer side of the internal carotid artery. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and lies above the ophthalmic vein, from which it is separated by a lamina of dura mater. It then passes between the two heads of the External rectus, and is distributed to that muscle on its ocular surface. Branches of communication.—The sixth nerve is joined by several filaments from the carotid and cavernous plexuses, and by one from the ophthalmic nerve. The sixth nerve, together with the thu-d, fourth, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth, as they pass to the orbit, bear a certain relation to eacli other in the cavernous sinus, at the sphenoidal fissure, and in the cavity of the orbit, which wiU now be described. In the cavernous sinus (fig. 776), the third and fourth nerves and the ophthalmic division of the fifth are placed on the outer waU of the sinus, in their numerical order, both from above dowi^ards, and from witliin outM'ards. The sixth nerve lies at the outer side of the internal carotid artery. As these nerves pass forwards to the splicnoidal fissure, the third and' fifth nerves become divided into branches, and the sixth approaches the rest ; so that their relative position becomes considerably changed. In the sphenoidal fissure (fig. 777), the fourth nerve, and the frontal and lachrymal divisions of the ophthalmic lie in this order from within outwards upon the same plane ; they enter the cavity of the orbit above the muscles. The remaining nerves enter the orbit between the two heads of the External rectus. The superior division of the third is the highest of tliese ; beneath this lies the nasal branch of the ophthalmic ; then the inferior division of the third ; and the sixth lowest of all. In the orbit, the fourth, and the frontal and lachrymal divisions of the ophthalmic lie on tlie same plane immediately beneath the periosteum, the Fig. 776.—Oblique section through the right cavernou.s sinus. Internal carotid artery Fig. 777.—Eelations of structures passing through the sphenoidal fissui-e. Lachrymal