SYNDESMOLOGY 388 Fig. 437.—Section of the costo- transverse joints from the third to the ninth inclusive. Contrast the concave facets on the upper with the flattened facets on the lower transverse processes. ribs to the transverse processes limit the movements of the costo-transverse joints to slight gliding, the nature of which is determined by the shape and direction of the articular surfaces (fig. 437). In the upper six ribs the articular surfaces on the tuberosities arc oval in shape and convex from above downwards ; they fit into corresponding concavities on the anterior surfaces of the transverse processes, so that upward and downward movements of the tuberosity are associated with rotation of the rib neck on its long axis. In the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs the articular surfaces on the tuberosities are flat, and are directed obliquely downwards, inwards, and backwards. The surfaces with which they articulate are placed on the upper margins of the transverse processes ; when, therefore, the tuberosities are drawn up they are at the same time carried backwards and inwards. The two joints, costo-ceutral and costo-transverse, move simultaneously and in the same directions, the total effect being that the neck of the rib moves as if on a single joint, of which the costo-central and costo-transverse articulations form the extremities. In the upper six ribs the neck of the rib moves but slightly upwards and down- wards ; its chief movement is one of rotation round its own long axis, rotation backwards being associated with depression, rotation for- wards with elevation. In the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs the neck of the rib moves upwards, backwards, and inwards, or do\vn- wards forwards and outwards; very slight rotation accompanies these movements. VI. AETICXJLATIONS OF THE CARTILAGES OP THE RIBS WITH THE STERNUM (ARTICULA- TIONES STERNOCOSTALES) (fig. 438). The articulations of the cartUages of the true ribs with the sternum are arthrodial joints, with the exception of the first, in which the cartilage is almost always directly united with the sternum, and which must, therefore, be regarded as a synarthrodial articulation. The ligaments connecting them are : Capsular. Anterior Chondro-sternal. Posterior Chondro-sternal. Interarticular Chondro-sternal. Anterior Chondro-xipboid. Posterior Chondro-xiphoid. The Capsular Ligaments (capsuhv articulares) surround the joints formed between the cartilages of the true ribs and the sternum. They are very thin, intimately blended M'itli the anterior and posterior ligaments, and strengthened at the upper and lower parts of the articulations by a few fibres, wliich pass from the cartilages to the side of the sternum. The Anterior Chondro-sternal Ligaments (ligg. sternocostalia radiata) are accessory parts of the capsular ligaments, and consist of broad and t un membranous bands that radiate from the front of the inner extremities ot the cartilages of the true ribs to the anterior surface of the sternum. 1 hey are composed of fasciculi which pass iir different directions. The superior ./o^ffC" ' ascend obliquely, the inferior pass obliquely downwards, and the middle fasciculi horizontally. The superficial fibres are the longest ; they inter- mingle with the fibres of the ligaments above and below them ^Yth those of the opposite side, and with the tendinous fibres of origin of the Pectoralis maior, forming a thick fibrous membrane (membrana sterni) which covers the front of the sternum. This is more distinct at the lower than at the upper part.