753 VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY Fig. 642.—The internal or long saphenous vein and its tributaries. sometimes tliose on the outer side of the tliigh join to form another large vessel; so that occasionally three large veins are seen converging from different parts of the thigh towards the saphenous opening. The internal saphenous vein communicates in the foot with tiie internal plantar vein ; in the leg, witli the posterior tibial veins, by branches which perforate the tibial origm of the Soleus muscle, and also with the anterior tibial veins ; at the knee, with the articular veins ; in the thigii, with the femoral vein by one' or more branches. The valves in this vein vary from ten to. twenty in number; they are more numerous in the thigh than in the leg. The external or short saphen- ous vein (v. saphena parva) (fig. 644) commences at the outer side of the venous arch on tlie dorsum of the foot; it ascends behind the outer malleolus, and along the outer border of the tendo Achillis, across wliich it passes to reach the middle Une of the posterior aspect of the leg. Running chrectly upwards, it perforates the deep fascia in the loAver part of the popliteal space, and termmates in the popliteal vein, between the heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle. It receives numerous large tributaries from the back part of the leg, and communi- cates with the deeij veins on the dorsum of the foot, and beliind the outer malleolus. Before it perforates the deep fascia, it gives off a com- municating branch, which passes upwards and inwards to join the internal saphenous vein. The external saplienous vein contains from nine to twelve valves, one of which is always found near its termination in the popliteal vein. The external saphenous nerve lies close beside this vein. Applied Anatomy.—A varicose condition of the saphenous veins is more frequently met with than in the other veins of the body, except perhaps the spermatic and hsemorrhoidal veins. The main cause of this IS the high blood-pressure, determined chiefly by the erect position, and the length of the column of blood, which has to be propelled in an uphill direction. In normal vessels there is only just sufficient torce to perform this task ; and in those case.s where there is diminished resistance ot the walls of the veins, these vessels are liable to dilate and a varicose con- dition is set up. This diminished resistance may be due to heredity, the vein-walls oeing congenitally weak, or it may follow mnammatory conditions of the vessels. = veno*l'm w ^1°°^ pressure in the veins, caused by any obstacle to the return of'the mav nl ^ tlie pressure of a tumour, or the gravid uterus, or tight gartering, break n Pf°'^"°® ^anx. In the normal condition of the veins, the valves in their interior «■ up tue column of blood into a number of smaller columns, and so to a considerable 3c