1100 SPLANCHNOLOGY glows into tlic substance of the emijrj'onic jaw, at lirst horizontally inwaids, and then, as the teeth develop, vertically, i.e. upwards in the upper jaw, and downwai'd.s in the lower jaw. While still maintaining a horizontal dii-ection, it has two edges ; one, the allached edge, which is continuous with the epithelium lining the raoutli ; the other, the free edge, projecting inwards, and imbedded in the mesodei-nial tissue of the embryonic jaw. Along its line of attachment to the buccal epithelium is a shallow groove, the denial furrow. About the ninth week the dental lamina begins to develop enlargements along its free border. These are ten in number in each jaw, and each corresponds to a future milk tooth. They consist of ma.sses of epitlielial cells; and the cells of the deeper part— that is, the 23art farthest from the margin of the jaw—increase rapidly and spread out in all directions. Each mass thus comes to assume a club shape, connected with the general epithelial lining of the moutli by a narrow neck, embraced by mesoderm. They are now knowTi as special dental germs. After a time the lower expanded portion inclines outwards, so as to form an angle with the superficial constricted portion, which is sometimes known as the neck of the special dental germ. About the tenth week the mesodermal tissue beneath these special dental germs becomes differentiated into jjapillse ; these grow upwards, and come in contact witli the ejjitlielial cells of the special dental germs, which become folded over them like a hood or cap. There is, then, at this stage a papilla (or papillae) which has already begun to assume somewhat the shape of the crown of the futm-e tooth, and from which the dentine and pulp of the tooth are formed, surmounted by a dome or cap of epitlielial cells, from which the enamel is derived. Fig. 911.—^Vertical section of the mandible of an early human foetus. (Magnified 25 diameters.) Dental furroiv Bemains of enamel germ —,jj^...„„„„„„„T-,i.>n-iiML _ti jil :. .il ,„s7,^^rft«NMw-9i™K!^'«Kj<A^»—Ln Enamcl OTgott _____ Dental germ Secondary enamel germ Meckel's cartilage Mandibl-e In the meantime, while these changes have been going on, the dental lamina has been extending backwards behind the special dental germ corresponding to the second molar tooth of the temporary set, and at about the seventeenth week it presents an enlargement, the special dental germ, for the first permanent molar, soon followed by the formation ot a papUla in the mesodermal tissue for the same tooth. This is followed, about the sixth month after bhth, by a further extension backwards of the dental lamina, with the formation of another enlargement and its corresponding papilla for the second moiai. And finally the process is repeated for the thii-d molar, its papUla appearing about the fifth year of life. , , , . j 4.„^ After the formation of the special dental germs, the dental lamina undergoes atropine changes and becomes cribriform, except on the lingual and lateral aspects of each ot tne special germs of the temporary teeth, where it undergoes a local tlnckcnmg, forming the special dental germ of each of the successional permanent teeth—i.e. the ten anteiior onas in each jaw. Here the same process goes on as has been described in connec on with those of the milk teeth: that is, they recede into the substance of he g^i"l'^fhind the germs of the temporary teeth. As they recede they become f'J^^Y'^n fln,^ in expansion at their distal extremity, and finally meet a papilla, which has been foimed n the mesoderm, just in the same manner as was the case m the temporary tec*^;- J apex of the papilla indents the dental germ, which encloses it and. fo'-"^ l,ecomes converted into the enamel, while the papilla forms the dentine and pulp ot the P"~Vr;'dental germs consist at first of rounded or polyhedral epitj-l.;! ->^^^^^ after the formation of the papiUiB, these cells undergo a dilTerentiation into three classes.