69 THE SKIN oalargement of the hair which it contains. Opening into it, near its free extremity, are the ducts of one or more sebaceous glands. At the bottom of each hair-follicle is a small conical, vascular eminence or papiDa, similar in every respect to those found upon the surface of the skin ; it is continuous with the dermic layer of the folhcle, is highly vascular, and probably supplied with nerve-fibrils. In structure the hair-folUclc consists of two coats—an outer or dermic, and an inner or epidermic. The outer or dermic coat is formed mainly of fibrous tissue ; it is continuous with the corium, is highly vascular, and supplied by numerous minute nervous filaments. It consists of three layers (fig. 88). The most internal, next the cuticular fining of the follicle, consists of a hyaline basement membrane having a glassy, transparent appearance, which is well marked in the larger hau'-foUicles, FiQ. 87.—Section of skin, showing the epidermis and dermis : a hair in its follicle : the arrector piH muscle : sebaceous glands. Dermis _—"^"^S Sebaceous gland Fibrous part of hair " Vessel —- Dermic coat __r Inner root-sheath (Outfr root-sheath Knob of hair _ Papilla of hair ^-i^jT^I^'^: - Stratum corneum - Stratum lucidum ' Stratum granulosum - Stratum Malpighii • Stratum germmativum Arrector iiili muscle Dermic coat Medulla of hair -^.t —^'^^v; but is not very distinct in the foUicles of minute hairs. It is continuous with the basement membrane of the surface of the corium. External to this is a compact layer of fibres and spindle-shaped cells arranged circularly around the follicle. This layer extends from the bottom of the folhcle as high as the entrance of the ducts of the sebaceous glands. Externally is a thick layer of connective tissue, arranged in longitudinal bundles, forming a more open texture and corresponding to the reticular part of the corium. In this are contained the blood-vessels and nerves. The inner or epidermic layer is closely adherent to the root of the hair, so that when the hair is plucked from its follicle this layer most commonly adheres to it and forms what is called the root-sheath. It consists of two strata named respec- tively the outer and inner root-sheaths ; the former of these corresponds with the