39 MUSCULAR TISSUE refracted between discs of different refrangibiUty. In addition to the membrane of Krause fine clear Unes mav be made out, with a sufficiently high power, crossing the centre'of the dark band ; these are known as the hnes oj Hensen (fig. 49 h). Formerly it was supposed by Bowman that a muscular fibre was made up ot a number of quadrangular particles, which he named sarcous elements, pined together Hke so many bricks forming a column, and he came to this conclusion because he found that under the influence of certahi reagents the fibre could be broken up transversely into discs, as weU as longitudinally into fibriUse (lig. 4b b). But it is now beUeved that this cross-cleavage is purely artificial, and tliat a muscular fibre is built up of fibrillse and not of small quadrangular particles. Assuming that this is so, the minute structure of these longitudinal fibrillse, or sarcostyles, may now be considered. Perhaps there are few subjects in histology which have received more attention, and in which the appearances seen under the microscope have been more differently interpreted, than the minute anatomy of muscular fibre. Schiifer has worked out tliis subject, particularly m the wing muscles of insects, which are pecuUarly adapted for this purpose on accoimt of the large amount of interstitial sarcoplasm which separates the sarcostyles In the following description that given by Schafer will be closely followed (fig. 49). A sarcostyle may be said to be made up of successive portions, each of which is termed a sarcomere. The sarcomere is situated between two membranes oi Krause and consists of (1) a central dark part, which forms a portion of the dark band of the whole fibre, and is named a sarcous clement* This sarcous element Fig. 49.—Diagram of a sarcomere. (After Schafer.) A. In moderately extended condition, b. In a contracted condition. S.E.< H- S.E. k, h. Membranes o£ Krause. H. Line or plane o£ Hensen. S.E. Poriferous sarcous dement. really consists of two parts, superimposed one on the top of the other, and when the fibre is stretched these two parts become separated from each other at the hire of Hensen (fig. 49, a). (2) On either side of this central dark portion is a clear layer, most visible when the fibre is extended ; this is situated between the dark centre and the membrane of Krause, and when the sarcomeres arc joined together to form the sarcostyle, constitutes the Ught band of the striated musGular fibre. When the sarcostyle is extended, the clear intervals are well marked and plainly to be seen; when, on the other hand, the sarcostyle is contracted, that is to say, the muscle is in a state of contraction, these clear portions are very smaJl or they may have disappeared altogether (fig. 49, b). When the sarcostyle is stretched to its full extent, not only is the clear portion well marked, but the dark portion—the sarcous element—is separated into its two constituents along the line of Hensen. , The sarcous element does not He fi'ce in the sarcomere, for when the sarcostyle is stretched, so as to render the clear portion visible, very fine fines, which are probably septa, may be seen running through it from the sarcous element to the membrane of Krause. Schafer explains these phenomena in the following way. He considers that each sarcous element is made up of a number of longitudinal chamrels, which open into the clear part towards the membrane of Krause but are closed at the line of Hensen. When the muscular fibre is contracted the clear part of the muscular » This must not be confused with the 'sarcous element of Bowman' (see above).