123 DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN outer part of the pasterior end of the thalamus, while the internal is situated on the lateral aspect of the mesencephalon. . The epithalamus includes the pineal body, the posterior commissure, and the tri"onum habenuliB. The pineal body arises as an upward evagination ot the roof-plate immediately in front of the mid-brain ; this evagination becomes sohd with the exception of its proximal part, which persists as the recessus fineahs In Hzards the pineal evagination is elongated into a stalk, and its periplieral extremity is expanded into a vesicle, in which a rudimentary lens and retina are formed • the stalk becomes sohd and nerve-fibres make their appearance in it, so that in these animals the pineal body forms a rudimentary eye. Th&josienor commissure is formed by the ingrowth of fibres into the depression behind and below the pineal evagination, and the trigonum habenulse is developed in front of the pineal recess. -n • -l i ■ From the basal lamina of the diencephalon the pars mamillana hypothalami is developed; this comprises the corpora mamillaria and the posterior part of the tuber cinereum. The corpora mamillaria arise as a median thickemng, %vhich becomes di\dded into two by a mesial furrow during the third month. Fig. 156.—Exterior of brain of human embryo of five weeks. (From model b)' His.) Ganglion liahen ulee The roof-plate of the diencephalon, in front of the pineal body, remains thin and epithehal in character, and is subsequently invaginated by the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The telence-phalon.—This consists of a median portion and two lateral diverticula, one on either side. The median portion forms the anterior part of the cavity of the third ventricle, and is closed below and in front by the lamina terminalis. The lateral diverticula consist of outward pouchings of the alar laminaj; the cavities represent the lateral ventricles, and their walls become thickened to form the nervous matter of the cerebral hemispheres. The roof-plate of the telencephalon remains thin, and is continuous in front with the lamina terminaUs and behind with the roof-plate of the diencephalon. In the basal laminae and floor-plate the pars optica hypothalami is developed ; this comprises the anterior part of the tuber cinereum, the infundibulum and posterior lobeof the pituitary body, and the optic commissure. The anterior part of the tuber cinereum is derived from the posterior part of the floor of the telencephalon. The infundibulum and posterior lobe of the pituitary body arise as a downward diverticulum from the floor. The most