DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN 119 P.nbrvronic brain becomes bent ou itself in a somewhat zigzag fashion ; the two eSieirflexui's are concave ventrally and are associated with correspondmg a 1 tl,P whole head The first flexure appears m the region of the mid- Sr-J^ and is the F^^^^^ 155). By means of it he fo;? br?hi i^5 bent in a ventral direction around the anterior end of the noto ho d and ore-gut, with the result that the floor . f % ^^^'^^^^^ coiS to Ue almost parallel with that of the hmd-brain (fig. 155)- Th flpvnre causes the mid brain to become, for a time, the most prominent part of trbratr s nee itrdorsal surface corresponds with the convexity of the curve^ The second bend appears at the junction of the hind-brain and spinal cord This is termed the ce^mcal flexure (fig. 157), and increases from the thud to tie end of the fifth week, "when the hind-brain forms nearly a right angle with the spinal cord • after the fi th week erection of the head takes p ace and the cervical Ce^iWhes and cUsappears. The third bend is named ^^^o^exure (fia 157), because it is found in the region of the future P^^^, ^.f ^^-^ J! differs from the other two in that (a) its convexity is orwards, and (6) it.does not affect the head. The lateral walls of the brain-tube, Uke those of the spmal cord, are divided by internal fiuTOWs into alar or dorsal and basal or ventral laminse. The hind-brain or rhombencephalon.-The cavity of the hmd-bram becomes the fourth ventricle. At the time when the primary cephahc A^xure makes its appearance, the length of the hind-brain exceeds the combined lengths of the other two vesicles. Immediately behind the mid- brain it exhibits a marked constriction, the 151.—Diagram to illustrate the isthmus rhomhencefhali (fig. 154, Isthmus), ^iar and basal laminse of brain which is best seen when the brain is viewed vesicles. (His.) from the dorsal aspect. From the isthmus the valve of Vieussens or superior medullary velum and the superior peduncles of the cerebellum are formed. It is customary to di\ade the rest of the hind-brain into two parts: viz. an upper, called the melen- cephalon, and a lower, the myelencephalon. The cerebellum is developed by a thicken- ing of the roof, and the pons by a thicken- ing in the floor and lateral walls of the metencephalon. The floor and lateral walls of the myelencephalon are thickened to form the medulla oblongata; its roof remains thin, and, retaining to a great extent its epithehal nature, is expanded in a lateral direction. Later, by the growth and back- ward extension of the cerebellum, the roof is folded inwards towards the cavity of the fourth ventricle; it assists in com- pleting the dorsal waU of this cavity, and is also invagmated to form the epithelial covering of its choroid plexuses. Above it is contmuous with the inferior medullary velum ; below, with the obex and ligul^. The development of the medulla oblongata resembles that of the spinal cord, but at the same time exhibits one or two interesting modifications. On transvei;se section the myelencephalon at an early stage is seen to consist of two lateral walls connected across the middle line by floor and roof plates, as in the cord (figs. 152 and 153). Each lateral wall consists of an alar and a basal lamina, separated by an internal furrow, the remains of which are represented in the adult brain by the foveae on the floor of the fourth ventricle. The contained cavity is more or less triangular in outline, the base being formed by the roof-plate, which is thin and greatly expanded transversely. Pear-shaped neuroblasts are developed in the alar and basal laminaj, and their narrow stalks are elongated to form the axis- cvlinders of the nerve-fibres. Opposite the furrow or boundary between the alar and basal laminse a bundle of nerve-fibres attaches itself to the outer surface of the alar lamina. This is named the tractus solitarius (fig. 153), and is fonned by the sensory fibres of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus nerves. It is the homologue of the oval bundle seen in the cord, and, like it, is developed by an ingrowth of fibres from the ganglia of the neural crest. At first it is applied to the outer surface of the alar lamina, but it soon becomes buried, owing to the growth over