SYNDESMOLOGY Surface Form-pie inteTViil between the femur and tibia can always be easilv If the bmb be extended, it is situated on a sHghtly higher level than the nn^ nf tl n but ,f the Hmb be slightly flexed, a knife ^carxid\Sta^t backS^^ below the apex of the patella would pass directly into the joint men th^ 1 ^1^. ^ flexed, the internal border of the inner condyle of the femur th^^ n^i. i f f ^" inner t.xberosity of the tibia, and the inner margt ofth^^atrformlS^^^^ area, which coincides with the level of the ioint and witli tlio irTw i ^ '^^P'^^f ed cartilage. « this cartilage be displace^inwarC gap^^^^ the knee-joint is distended with Lid, the outuke of^thTl^ovtl m^S:^^^^^^ of the knee may be fairly weU mapped out. "^uia-ue au me rronc ^Pplied Anatomy.—Fvom a consideration of the construction of the knee-ioint it would at firs sight appear to be one of the least secure of any of the johits^ the body It IS formed between the two longest bones, and therefore the amount ^of lev™ S can be brought to bear upon it is considerable ; the articular surfaces are but iU^adaS to each other and the range of motion which it enjoys is great. All these circumstS tend to render the articulation insecure; nevertheless,%n account of theTowerfS hgaments which bmd the bones together, the joint is one of the strongest in the body and dislocation from traumatism is a rare occurrence. When, on the other hand the I^oT a ! l^een softened or destroyed by disease, partial displacement is Uab'le S occur and is frequently brought about by the mere action of the muscles displacing the articular surfaces from each other. The tibia may be dislocated forwards, backwards mwards or outwards ; or a combination of two of these dislocations may occur and any ot these dislocations may be complete or incomplete. One or other of the semilunar cartflages may become displaced and nipped between the femur and tibia. The accident is produced by a twist of the leg when the knee is flexed, and is accompanied by a sudden pain and fixation of the knee in a flexed position ihe cartilage may be displaced either inwards or outwards : that is to say, either inwards towards the tibial spme, so that the cartUage becomes lodged in the intercondyloid notch • or outwards so that the cartilage projects beyond the margin of the two articular surfaces' Ine mternal cartilage is much more commonly the one affected. Acute synovitis, the result of traumatism, is very common in the knee, on account of the superficial position of the joint. When the cavity is distended with fluid, the swelluig shows itseH above and at the sides of the pateUa, reaching about an inch, occasionaUy two mches or more, above the trochlear surface of the femur, and extending a Uttle higher under the Vastus internus than under the Vastus externus. The lower level of the synovial membrane is just above the level of the head of the tibia. Chronic synovitis shows itseK prmcipaUy in the form of pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane, leading to tuberculous arthritis. The reasons why tuberculous disease of the knee usually com- mences in the synovial membrane appear to be (a) the complex and extensive nature of this sac, and (6) the fact that injuries are generally diffused and applied to the front of the jomt rather than to the ends of the bones. SyphiUtic disease not infrequently attacks the knee-joint. In the tertiary form of the disease, gummatous infiltration of the synovial membrane may take place. The knee is one of the joints most commonly affected with osteo-arthritis, and is said to be more frequently the seat of this disease in women than in men. The occun-ence of the so-called loose cartilages is almost confined to the knee, though they are occasionally met with in other joints. Many of them occur in cases of osteo-arthritis, in which calcareous or cartilaginous material is formed in one of the synovial frmges and constitutes the foreign body, and may or may not become detached, in the former case only meriting the usual term, ' loose ' cartilage. In other cases they have their origin in the exudation of inflammatory lymph, and possiblj% in some rare instances, a portion of the articular cartflage or one of the semilunar cartilages becomes detached and constitutes the foreign body. In inflammatory affections of the knee-joint, the position of greatest ease, and therefore the one which is always assumed, is that of sUght flexion. In this position there is the most complete relaxation of ligamentous structures, and, therefore, the greatest diminution in the tension caused by the effusion. If this flexed position be maintained for any length of time, it becomes permanent from fibrous adhesions taking place, and the utility of the limb is materially impaired. Attention should therefore be paid by the surgeon to the position of the limb ; and by carefully applied splints, vnih. the leg "in an extended position, this untoward result should be prevented. In cases of septic sjmovitis, incisions to evacuate the pus should be made vertically on either side of the pateUa, between it and the condyles of the femur. Genu valgum, or knock knee, is a common deformity of childhood. In this condition, owing to changes in and about the joint, the angle between the outer borders of the tibia and femur is diminished, so that as the i^atient stands the two internal condyles of the femora are in contact, but the tw^o internal maUeoli of the tibite are more or less widely separated from each other. Wlien, however, the knees are flexed to a right angle, the two legs are practically parallel with each other. At the commencement of the disease there is a yielding of the internal lateral ligament and other fibrous structures on the inner side of the joint; as a result of this there is a constant undue pressure of the outer