OSTEOLOGY 260 bone consists of two halves, united by a fibrous symphysis, in which ossification takes place during the first year. The above description of the ossification of the mandible is based on the researches of Low* and Fawcett.f and differs somewhat from that usually given. Articulations.—The mandible articulates mth the two temporal bones. Changes produced in the Mandible by Age At hirth (fig. 333), the body of the bone is a mere shell, containing the sockets of the two incisor, the canine, and the two temporary molar teeth, imperfectly partitioned off from one another. The dental canal is of large size, and nms near the lower border of the bone ; the mental foramen opens beneath the socket of the first molar tooth. The angle is obtuse (175°), and the condylar portion is nearly in line mth the body. The coronoid process is of comparatively large size, and projects above the level of the condyle. After birth (fig. 334), the two segments of the bone become joined at the symphysis, from below upwards, in the first year ; but a trace of separation may be visible in the beginning of the second year, near the alveolar margin. The body becomes elongated in its whole length, hut more especially behind the mental foramen, to provide space for the three additional teeth developed in this part. The depth of the body increases owing to increased growth of the alveolar part, to afford room for the fangs of the teeth, and by thickening of the subdental portion which enables the jaw to withstand the powerful action of the masticatory muscles ; but the alveolar portion is the deeper of the two, and, consequently, the chief part of the body hes above the oblique line. The dental canal, after the second dentition, is situated just above the level of the mylo-hyoid ridge ; and the mental foramen occupies the position usual to it in the adult. The angle becomes less obtuse, owing to the separation of the jaws by the teeth; about the fourth year it is 140°. , , , , n x In the adult (fig. 335). the alveolar and basilar portions of the body are usuaUy of equal depth. The mental foramen opens midway between the upper and lower borders of the bone, and the dental canal runs nearly paraUel with the mylo-hyoid Une. The ramus is almost vertical in direction, the angle measuring from 110° to 120°. In old age (fig. 336), the bone becomes greatly reduced in size, for with the loss of the teeth the alveolar process is absorbed, and the basilar part of the bone alone remains ; consequently, the chief part of the bone is below the obhque fine. The dertal canal, with the mental foramen opening from it, is close to the alveolar border. The ramus is obhque in dkection, the angle measures about 140°, and the neck of the condyle is more or less bent backwards. Hyoid Bone The Hyoid Bone (os hvoideum) is named from its resemblance to the Greek upsilon ; it is also called the os Ungum, because it supports the tongue, and gives attachment to several of its muscles. It is a bony arch, shaped hke a horseshoe, and consists of five segments, a body, two greater cornua, and two lesser cornua. It is suspended from the tips of the styloid processes ot the temporal bones by the stylo-hyoid ligaments. ^ . , r The body (basi-hyal) or central part of the bone is of a quadrilateral torm. Its anterior surface (fig. 337) is convex and directed forwards and upwards ; it presents a median and a transverse ridge which subdmde it mto four areas, tw^ on either side of the middle line. At the pomt of intersection of these ndges is an elevation named the tubercle. The anterior surface gives attacliment to the Genio-hyoid in the greater part of its extent; above, to the Genio-hyo- glossus ; below, to the Mylo-hyoid, Stylo-hyoid, and aponem-osis of the Digastric (suprahyoid aponeurosis) ; and externaUy to a part of the Hyo-glossu.. The posterior surface is smooth, concave, directed backwaixls and downwards and separated from the epiglottis by the thyi-o-hyoid membrane and a quantity ot iSse areolar tissue ; Tbursa intervenes between it and the i^yi--;^y^^ .^^:;!^- brane The superior border is rounded, and gives attachment to the tlijTO- hWd membrane, and parts of the Genio-hyo-glossus and Chondro-glossus ¥ll ir.TrSr border givers attachment, iii front, to the S;-rnc.liyoid ; be^^^^^^ to the Omo-hyoid, and at its junction with the great cornu to part of the Thyro * . The Development of the Lower Jaw in Man,' by Alexander Low, M.A.. n.B (Procordm<,s of the Anatomical ami Anthropoloffical Societ;/ of the L>,iveri:rty -;»*/T'''''-";/^°7; .„,,rican ^ t 'Ossification of the Lower Jaw in Man,' by Professor Fawcctt {Journal of the American Medical Aatociation, September 2, 1905).