SPLANCHNOLOGY 1154 in the rectum. It is completely surrounded by peritoneum, which forms a mesentery (pelvic mesocolon) : the mesentery diminishes in length from the centre towards the ends of the loop, where it disappears, so that the loop is fixed at its junctions with the iUac colon and rectum, but enjoys a considerable range of movement in its central portion. Relations of the pelvic colon.—Behind the pelvic colon are the external iliac vessels, the left Pyriformis muscle, and left sacral plexus of nerves ; in front, it is separated from the bladder in the male, and the uterus in the female, by some coils of the small intestine. The rectum is continuous above with the pelvic colon, whilst below it ends in the anal canal. From its origin at the level of the tliird sacral vertebra it passes downwards, lying in the sacro-coccygeal curve, and extends for about an inch in front of, and a little below, the tip of the coccyx, as far as the apex of the prostate gland. It then bends sharply backwards mto the anal canal. It therefore presents two antero-posterior curves : an upper, with its convexity backwards, and a lower, with its convexity forwards. Two lateral curves are also described, one to the right opposite the junction of the third and fourth sacral vertebrae, and the other to the left, opposite the left sacro-coccygeal articulation; they are, however, of Uttle importance. The rectum measures about five inches in length, and at its commencement its calibre is similar to that of the pelvic colon, but near its termination it is dilated to form the rectal ampulla. The rectum has no sacculations comparable to those of the colon, but a sacculated condition, due to the presence m its interior of valves (shortly to be described) is sometimes seen. The peritoneum is related to the upper two-thirds of the rectum covering at first its front and sides, but lower down its front only ; from the latter it is reflected on to the seminal vesicles in the male and the posterior vagmal waU ^ *TheTvel at which the peritoneum leaves the anterior wa,U of the rectum to be reflected on to the viscus in front of it is of considerable importance from a surgical point of view, in connection mth removal of the lower part ot the rectuS It is higher in the male than in the female. In the former the heigh rectum, xti g of the recto-vesical pouch is about Fig. 955.-Coronal section through the anal three inches : that to say the canal. (Symington.) height to which an ordinary index finger can reach from the anus. In the female the height of the recto-vaginal pouch is about two and a quarter inches from the anal orifice. The rectum is sur- rounded by a dense tube of fascia derived from the fascia endopelvina, but fused beliind vAth. the fascia covering the sacrum and coccyx. The fascial tube is loosely attached to the rectal wall by areolar tissue in order to allow of distension of the viscus. Relations of the rectum.— The upper part of the rectum is in relation, behind, with the superior hasmorrhoidal vessels the left Pyriformis muscle, and left sacral plexus of nerves, which separate it from the anterior sur- faces of the sacral vertebra^ : m its lower part it lies directly on the sacrum, coccyx, and Lova- tores ani, a dense fascia alone intervening; in front, it is sepa- rated above, in the male, from the posterior -^^^^^.^^ppeS^^ female, from the posterior surface of the uterus and its appendages, oy B. Cavity o£ bladder. v.D. Vos deferens. 8.V. Seminal v^lde K. Second part of rectum. A.O. Anal canal. Levator a^ IS internal epliincter. B.8. External sphincter.