1109 THE SALIVARY GLANDS The anterior surface of the gland is moulded on the posterior border of tlie ramus of the mandible, clothed by tlie Internal pterygoid and Masseter muscles. The inner lip of the groove dips, ifor a short distance, between tlie two Pterygoid muscles, wliile the outer lip extends for some distance over the superficial surface of the Masseter ; a small portion of this lip immediately below the zygoma is usually detached, and is named the socia parotidis. The outer or superficial surface, slightly lobulated, is covered by the integu- ment, the superficial fascia containing the facial branches of the great auricular nerve and some small lymphatic glands, and the fascia wliich forms the capsule of the gland. The inner or deep surface extends inwards by means of two processes, one of which lies on the styloid process and the styloid group of muscles and projects under the mastoid process and Sterno-mastoid muscle ; the other is situated in front of tlie styloid process, and passes into the posterior part of the glenoid fossa beliind the temporo-mandibular joint. The deep surface is in contact with the internal and external carotid arteries, the internal jugular vein, and the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. EiG. 917.—The salivary glands. The anterior border lies on the superficial surface of the Masseter ; the posterior abuts on the external auditory meatus and the mastoid process, and overlaps the anterior edge of the Sterno-mastoid. The superior border is in contact with the zygomatic arch, and the inferior overlaps the posterior beUy of the Digastric. The inner border, at the junction of the anterior and inner surfaces, is separated from the ])haryngeal wall by some loose connective tissue. Structures within the gland.—The external carotid artery lies at first on the deep surface, and then in the substance of the gland. The artery gives off its posterior auricular branch which emerges from the gland behind; it then divides into its terminal brandies, the internal maxillary and superficial temporal ; the former runs inwards behind the neck of tlie mandible ; the latter runs upwards across the zygoma, and gives off its transverse facial branch which emerges from the front of the gland. Superficial to the arteries are the temporal and internal maxillary veins, uniting to form the