BONE 33 t,he cells of the future bone, the spaces enclosing them forming the lacunjB (fig. 41). The canaliculi, at first extremely short, are supposed to be extended l)y'ab.«orptiou, so as to meet those of neighlDouring lacunae. Such are the changes which may be observed at one particular point, the centre of ossification. While they have been going on a similar process lias been set up in the surrounding parts and has been gradually proceeding towards the ends of the shaft, so that in the ossifving bone all the changes described above may be seen in different parts, from the true bone in the centre of the shaft to the hyaline cartilage at the extremities. The bone thus formed differs from the bone of the adult in being more spongy and less regularly lamcllated. The shaft of the bone is at first solid, but a tube is hollowed out in it by absorption around the vessels passing into it, and this becomes the medullary canal. This absorption is supposed to be brought about by large giant-cells, the so-called osteoclasts of Kolliker (fig. 41, /). They vary in shape and size, and contain a large number of clear nuclei, sometimes as many as twenty. The occur- rence of similar cells in some tumours of bones has led to such tumours being denominated ' myeloid.' The absorption of bone from the interior to form the medullary canal is progressive, and is accompanied by a progi'essi ve deposition of bone on the exterior from the periosteum, until the bone has attained the shape and size which it is destined to retain during adidt life. While the ossification of the cartilaginous shaft is extending towards the articular ends, the cartilage immediately in advance of the osseous tissue continues to grow until the length of the adult bone is reached. During the period of growth the articular end, or epiphysis, remains for some time entirely cartilaginous, then a bony centre appears, and initiates in it the same process of intracartilaginous ossification : but this process never extends to any great distance. The epiphysis remains separated from the shaft by a narrow cartilaginous layer for a definite time. This layer ultimately ossifies, the dis- tinction between shaft and epiphysis is obliterated, and the bone assumes its completed form and shape. The same remarks also apply to such, processes of bone as are separately ossified, e.g. the trochanters of the femur. The bones therefore continue to grow until the body has acquired its full stature. They increase in length by ossification continuing to extend behind the epiphysial cartilage, which goes on growing in advance of the ossifying process. They increase in circumference by deposition of new bone, from the deeper layer of the periosteum, on their external surface, and at the same time an absorption takes place from within, by which the medullary cavities are increased. The nieduUary spaces wliich characterise the cancellous tissue are produced by the absorption of the original foetal bone in a manner similar to that by which the original medullary canal is formed. The distinction between the cancellous and the compact tissue appears to depend essentially upon the extent to which this process of absorption has been carried. In some morbid states of the bone inflammatory absorption produces exactly the same change, and converts portions of bone, naturally compact, into cancellous tissue; in other pathological con- ditions denser bone may be formed. The number of ossific centres varies in different bones. In most of the shor*- bones ossification commences by a single point near the centre, and proceeds towards the surface. In the long bones there is a central point of ossification for the shaft or diapliysis : and one or more for each extremity, the epiphysis. That for the shaft is the first to appear. The times of union of the epiphyses with the sliaft vary inversely with the times at which their ossifications began (with the ex- ception of the fibula) and regulate the direction of the niitrient arteries of the bones. Thus, the nutrient arteries of the bones of the arm and forearm are directed towards the elbow, since the epiphyses at this joint become united to the shafts before those at the opposite extremities. In the lower limb, on the other hand, the nutrient arteries are dii-ectcd awa}' from the.knee : that is, upwards in tlic fcTuur, downwards in the tibia and fibula ; and in them it is observed that the upper epiphysis of the femur, and the lower epiphyses of the tibia and fil)ula, become first united to the shafts. Where there is only one epiphysis, the medullary artery is directed towards the other end of the bone ; as towards the acromial end of the clavicle, towards the distal ends of the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the metatarsal bono D