368 SYNDESMOLOGY CLASSIFICATION OF JOINTS The articulations are divided into three classes : syiiarIhroses ov immov&hle, mnphiarlhroses or mixed, and diarihroses or movable, joints. 1. Synarthroses. Immovable Articttlations Synarthroses include aU those articulations in which the surfaces of the bones are in almost direct contact, fastened together by an intervening mass of connective tissue or hyaline cartilage, and in M'liich there is no appreciable motion, as in the joints between the bones of the skuU, excepting those of the mandible. There are four varieties of synarthrosis : Sutura, Schindylesis, Gomphosis, and Synchoncbosis. Sutura is that'form of articulation where the contiguous margins of the bones are united by a thin layer of fibrous tissue, the sutural ligament (fig. 419). It is met M'ith only in the skull. When the articulating surfaces are connected by a series of processes and indentations interlocked together, the articulation Fig. 419.—Section across the sagittal Fig. 420.—Section through oceipito- suture. sphenoid synchondrosis of an infant. Penosteum is termed a true suture {sutura vera) ; and of this there are three varieties: sutura dentata, serrata, and limbosa. The surfaces of the bones are not in direct contact, being separated by a layer of membrane, continuous externally with the pericranium, mternally with the dura mater. The sutura dentata is so called from the tooth-like form of the projectmg articular processes, as in the suture between the parietal bones. In the sutura serrata the edges of the bones are serrated like the teeth of a fine saw, as between the two portions of the frontal bone. In the sutura limbosa, there is besides the dentated processes, a certain degree of bevellmg of the articular surfaces, so that the bones overlap one another, as in the suture between the parietal and frontal bones. When the Fig. 421. -Diagrammatic section oi a symphysis. Intervertebral disc of fihro-cartilage Articular cartilage articulation is formed by roughened surfaces j)laced in af)position with one another, it is termed a false suture {sutura notha), of which there are two kmds, the sutura squamosa, formed by the overlapping of con- tiguous bones by broad bevelled margins, as in the squamo-parietal (squamous) suture ; and the sutura harmonia, Avhere there is simple apposition of contiguous rougli surfaces, as in the articulation between the maxillaj, or between the horizontal plates of the palate bones. Schindylesis is that form of articulation m which a thm plate ot bone is received into a cleft or fissure formed by the separation of two lamma- in another bone, as in the articulation of the rostrum of the sphenoid and perpendicular plate of the ethmoid with the vomer, or in the reception of the latter in the fissure between the maxilloe and between the palate bones. Gomphosis is articulation by the insertion of a conical process into a socket, as a nail is driven into a board ; this is not iUustrated by any articulation between bones, properly so caUed. but is seen in the articulations of tlie teeth with the alveoli of tlie mandible and maxillae.