THE NUTRITIVE FLUIDS 11 blood may be retarded so that the plasma may be obtained free from coU^usc es from th s plasma there may be derived fibrin and scrum, without the cellulai elements FibSn thus obtained is a white or l.uff-coloured stringy substance, and when observed, in the course of , , , , formation under the microscope, shows Fig. 6.—Fibrin from human blood, a mesh work of fine fibrils (fig. 6). After exposure to the air for some tune it becomes hard, dry, brown, and bnttle. It is one of the class of coagulated protems, insoluble in hot or cold water, saUne solution, alcohol, or ether. Under the action of dilute hydrochloric acid it swells up but does not dissolve, but, when thus swollen, is readily dissolved by a solution of pepsin. Serum, with the exception of its proteins, has a composition identical with that of plasma. The fibrinogen, charac- teristic of plasma, has disappeared, and , , . , „ the fibrin ferment and fibrino-globulin are found instead, as well as the serum albumin and serum globuUn which are not involved in the process of coagulation. Blood crystals.—HaBmoglobin, as already stated, readily crystallises when separated from the blood corpuscles. In human blood the crystals are elongated pnsms (fi" 7 a), and in the majority of animals belong to the rhombic system, though in the squirrel hexagonal plates are met with. Small brown prismatic crystals of hwmin (fig. 7, b) may be obtained by mixing dried blood with common Fig. 7.—Blood-crystals. B A. Hiemoglobm crystals from human blood. li. Uipmin crystals from blood treated with acetic acid. C. na;matoidin crystals from an old apoplectic clot. salt and boiling with a few drops of glacial acetic acid; a drop of the mixture on a slide will show the characteristic crystals on cooling. HcBmatoidm crystals (fig. 7, o) occur sometimes in old blood clots. Lymph Lymph is a transparent, colourless or sUghtly yellow fluid, whicli is conveyed by a set of vessels, named lymphalics, into the blood. These vessels arise in nearly all parts of the body as lymfh ca'pillaries. They take up the blood plasma which has exuded from the blood capillaries for the nourishment of the tissue elements, and return it into the veins. The greater number of these lymphatics empty themselves into one main duct, the thoracic duel, which passes upwards a.ong the fi-ont of the vertebral column and opens into the largo veins on the left side of root of the neck. The remainder empty themselves into a smaller duct which ends in the corresponding veins on the right side of the neck. Lymph is a watery fluid of sp. gr. about 1-015; it closely resembles the blood plasma, but is more dilute, containing only about 5 per cent, of proteins and 1 per cent, of salts and extractives. When examined under the microscope, leucocytes of the lymphocyte class are found floating in the transparent fluid; they are always increased in number after the passage of the lymph through lymphoid tissue, as in lymphatic glands.