1057 THE EAR presents a clubbed exti-emity or phalangeal process. Immediately to the outer side of Deiters' cells are some five or six rows of columnar ceUs, the supporting cells of Hensen. Their bases are narrow, while their upper parts are expanded and form a rounded elevation on the floor of the ductus cochlearis. The columnar cells Ijang outside Hensen's cells are termed the cells of Claudius. A space is seen between the outer rods of Corti and the adjacent hair-cells ; this is called the space of Nuel. The lamina reticularis or membrane of Kulliker is a delicate framework perforated by roimded holes. It extends from the heads of the outer rods of Corti to the external row of the outer hair-cells, and is formed by several rows of ' minute fiddle-shaped cuticular structures,' called phalanges, between which are circular apertures containing the free ends of the hair-cells. The iimermost row of phalanges consists of the phalangeal processes of the outer rods of Corti; the outer rows are formed by, the modified free ends of Deiters' cells. Feg. 874.—Longitudinal section of the cochlea, showing the relations of the scate, the ganglion spirale, &c. S.V. Scala Testibuli. 3.T. Scala tympani. S.M. Soala media. L.s. Ligamentum spirale. G.s. GaugUon spirale. Covering over these structures, but not touching them, is the memhrana iectoria, or membrane of Corti, which is attached to the limbus laminae spu-alis close to the inner edge of the membrane of Reissner. It is thin near its mner margin, and overlies the auditory teeth of Huschke. Its outer half is tliick, and along its lower edge, opposite the inner hair-cells, is a clear band, named Hensen's stripe. Externally, the membrane becomes much thinner, and is attached to the outer row of Deiters' cells (Retzius). The osseous labyrinth is lined by an exceedingly thin fibro-serous membrane, analogous to a periosteum, from its close adhesion to the inner surfaces of these cavities, and performing the office of a serous membrane by its free surface. It lines the vestibule, and from this cavity is continued into the semicircular canals and the scala vestibuli of the cochlea, and through the helicotrema into the scala tympani. A delicate tubular process is prolonged along the aqueduct of the vestibule to the inner surface of the dura mater. This membrane is continued across the fenestra ovalis and rotunda, and consequently has no communication with the lining membrane of the tympanum. Its attached surface is rough and fibrous, and closely adherent to the bone ; its free surface is smooth and pale, covered with a layer of epithelium, and secretes a thin, limpid fiuid, the perilymph. The ductus cochlearis or scala media is closed above and below. The upper blind extremity is termed the lagena, and is attached to the cupula at the upper part of the helicotrema ; the lower end is lodged in the recessus cochlearis of the vestibule. Near this blind extremity, the scala media receives 3 Y