Ofcj'i'JiULOGY interval between them. The maxillary process is a rough, triangular surface which articulates with the maxilla. The temporal process, long,'narrow, and serrated, articulates with the zygomatic process of the temporal. Of the fotir borders, the antero-superior or orbital is smooth, concave, and forms a considerable part of the ch-cumference of the orbit. The antero-inferior or maxillary border is rough, and bevelled at the expense of its inner table, to articulate with the maxUla ; near the orbital margin it gives origin to the Levator labii superioris proprius. The postero-superior or temporal border, curved like an italic letter /, is contmuous above with the commencement of the temporal ridge, and below with the upper border of the zygomatic arch ; the temporal fascia is attached to it. The postero-inferior or zygomatic border affords attachment by its rough edge to the Masseter. Ossification.—The malar bone ossifies generally from three centres—one for the zygomatic and two for the orbital portion; these appear about the eighth week and fuse about the fifth month of foetal fife. After birth, the bone is sometimes divided by a horizontal suture into an upper larger, and a lower smaller division. In some quadrumana the malar bone consists of two parts, an orbital and a malar. Articulations.—The malar articulates with four bones : the frontal, sphenoid, temporal, and maxilla. The Palate Bones The Palate Bone (os palatinum) is situated at the back part of the nasal fossa between the maxilla and the pterygoid process of the sphenoid (fig. 321). It contributes to the walls of three cavities : the floor and outer wall of the nose, the roof of the mouth, and the floor of the orbit ; it enters into the formation of two fossae, the spheno-maxiUary and pterygoid; and one fissure, the spheno-maxillary. The palate bone somewhat resembles the letter L, and consists of a horizontal and a vertical plate and three outstanding processes Fig. 321.—Palate bone in situ. ine —viz. the pyramidal process or tuberosity, which is directed Ixackwards and outwards from the junction of the plates, and the orbital and sphenoidal processes, which surmount the vertical plate, and are separated by a deep not ch, the spheno-palatine notch. . The horizontal plate (pars horizontalis) (figs. 322 and 323) is quadri- lateral, and has two surfaces and four borders. The superior surface, concave from side to side, forms the back part of the floor of the nose. The inte7-ior surface, slightly concave and rough, forms, with the correspondmg surface