1069 THE LARYNX Its fibres pass backwards and outwards, to be inserted into the base and anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. This muscle consists of two fasciculi an inner and an outer.* The inner portion (ra. vocalis) is a triangular band which is inserted into the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage and into the adjacent portion of its anterior surface ; it lies parallel ^^■lth the true vocal cord to which it is adherent. The outer portion (m. tliyreoarytajnoideus externus) the tliinner, is inserted into the anterior surface and outer border of the arytenoid cartilage above the preceding fibres ; it lies on the outer side of the laryngeal saccule, immecUately beneath the mucous membrane. A considerable number of the fibres of the Thyro-ary tenoideus are prolonged into the aryteno-epigiottic fold, where some of them become lost, whUe others are continued forwards to the margin of the epiglottis. They have received a distinctive name, Thyro-epiglotticus (m. thyreoepiglotticus), and are sometimes described as a separate muscle. Actions.—In considering the actions of the muscles of the larynx, they may be conveniently divided into two groups, viz. : 1. Those which open and close the glottis. 2. Those which regulate the degree of tension of the vocal cords. 1. The muscles which open the glottis are the Crico-arytenoidei postici; and those which close it are the Crico-arytenoidei laterales and the Aryte- noideus. 2. The muscles wliich regulate the tension of the vocal cords are the Crico-thyroidei, which elongate and render them tense ; and the Thyro- arytenoidei, which relax and shorten them. The Posterior crico-arytenoid muscles .separate the vocal cords, and, consequently, open the glottis, by rotating the arytenoid cartilages outwards around a vertical axis passing through the crico-arytenoid joints ; so that their vocal processes and the vocal cords attached to them become widely separated. ThQ Lateral crico-arytenoid miiscles close the glottis, by rotating the arytenoid cartilages inwards, so as to approximate their vocal processes. The Arytenoid m uscle approximates the arytenoid cartilages, and thus closes the opening of the glottis, especially at its back part. The Crico-thyroid muscles produce tension and elongation of the vocal cords by di-awing down the lower border of the thyroid cartilage and slightly advancing its inferior' cornua ; the distance between the vocal processes and the angle of the thyroid is thus increased, and the cords are consequently elongated. The Thyro-arytenoid muscles, consisting of two parts having different attachments and different directions, are rather complicated as regards their action. Their main use is to draw the arytenoid cartilages forwards towards the thyroid, and thus shorten and relax the vocal cords. But, owing to the connection of the inner portion with the vocal cord, this part, if acting separately, is supposed to modify its elasticity and tension, and the outer portion, being inserted into the outer part of the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage, may rotate it inwards, and thus narrow the rima glottidis by bringing the two cords together. The manner in which the superior aperture of the larynx is closed during deglutition is referred to on page 486. Mucous Membrane.—The mucous membrane of the larynx is continuous above with that lining the mouth and pharynx, and is prolonged through the trachea and bronchi into the lungs. It lines the posterior surface and the upper part of the anterior surface of the epiglottis, to which it is closely adherent, and forms the aryteno-epigiottic folds which bound the superior aperture of the larynx. It lines the whole of the cavity of the larynx ; forms, by its reduplication, the chief part of the superior, or false vocal cord ; and, from the ventricle, is continued into the laryngeal saccule. It is then reflected over the trae vocal cords, where it is thin, and very intimately adherent ; covers the inner surface of the crico-thyroid membrane and cricoid cartilage ; and is ultimately continuous with the lining membrane of the trachea. The upper part of the anterior surface and the upper half of the posterior sui-face of the epiglottis, the upper part of the aryteno-epigiottic folds, and the true vocal cords are covered by stratified squamous epithelium ; all the rest of the laryngeal mucous membrane is covered by columnar ciliated cells. Glands.—The mucous membrane of the larynx is furnished with numerous muciparous glands, the orifices of which are found in nearly every part ; they are very plentiful upon the epiglottis, being lodged in little pits in its substance ; they are also foimd in large numbers along the posterior margin of the aryteno-epigiottic fold, in front of the arytenoid cartilages, where they are termed the arytenoid glands. They exist also in large numbers upon the inner surface of the sacculus laryngis. None are found on the free edges of the true vocal cords. * Henle describes these two portions as separate muscles, under the uanies of External and Internal thyro-arytenoids.