589 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE FOOT plantar fascia, and from the intermuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. It passes forwards, and divides into four tendons, one for eacli of the four outer toes. Opposite the bases of the first phalanges, each tendon divides into two slips, to allow of the passage of tlie corresponding tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum ; the two portions of the tendon then unite and form a grooved channel for the reception of the accompanying long Flexor tendon." Finally, it divides a second time, to be inserted into the sides of the second phalanx about its middle. The mode of division of the tendons of the Flexor brevis digitorum, and of their insertion into the phalanges, is analogous to that of the tendons of Fig. 549.—Muscles of the sole of the foot. First layer. the Flexor subliinis digitorum in the hand. Fibrous sheaths of the Flexor tendons.—Tliese are not so well marked as in the fingers. The Flexor tendons of the toes as they run along the phalanges are retained against the bones by fibrous sheaths. These sheaths are formed by strong fibrous bands, which arch across the tendons, and are attached on each side to the margins of the phalanges. Opposite the middle of tlie proximal and second phalanges the sheath is very strong, and the fibres pass transversely; but opposite the joints it is much thinner, and the fibres are directed obliquely. Each sheath is lined by a synovial membrane, ^vhich is reflected on the contained tendon. The Abductor minimi digiti (m. abductor quinti digiti) lies along the outer border of the foot, and is in relation by its inner margin with the external plantar vessels and nerves. It arises, by a very broad origin, from the outer tubercle of the os calcis, from the under surface of the os calcis between the two tubercles, from the fore part of the inner tubercle, from the plantar fascia, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the Flexor brevis digitorum. Its tendon, after gliding over a smooth facet on the under sur- face of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, is inserted, with the short Flexor of the little toe, into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of this toe. Second Layer (fig. 550) Flexor accessorius. Lumbricales. The Flexor accessorius (m. quad- rats? plantae) is separated from the muscles of the first layer by the external plantar vessels and nerves. It a,rises by two heads, M-hich are separated from each other by the long plantar ligament : the inner or larger, which is muscular, is attached to the inner concave surface of the os calcis, below the groove which lodges the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis ; the outer head, flat and tendinous, to the outer border of the inferior surface of tlie os calcis, in front of its lesser tubercle, and to the long plantar ligament. The two portions join at an acute angle, and are inserted into the outer margin and upper and under surfaces of the tendon