201 VERTEBEAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE •ocess of the sixth cervical vertebra is ot surgical importance, it cieep piessuie uo iii.iul the neck, in the coui-sc of the carotid arter3% opposite the cricoid cartihxge, the promiueiit iterior tubercle of this process can be felt. This has been named Chasmujnacs tubercle, id against it the carotid artery may be most conveniently compressed by the finger. over to bear in mind that the root of the spine of tlic scapula is on a k^yel with the mt<-rval between the spinous processes of the third and fourtli thoracic; vertebr;e and the inferior anele witli the interval between the seventh and eighth thoracic ; tlie highest point of the crest of the ilium is on a level with the spinous process of the fourth lumbar and the nosterior suiierior spine of the ilium with that of the second sacral. Iho only other Bortions of the vertebral column which can be felt from the surface are the transverse processes of three of the cervical vertebroe-viz. the first, the sixth, and the seventh. Tiiat of the atlas can be felt as a rounded nodule of bone just below and in front ot tlie apex of the mastoid process, at the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid. The transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is of surgical imjiortance. If deep pressure be made in th ante The transverse process of the seventh "cervical vertebra can be often felt. Sometimes its costal process is large and segmented off, forming a cervical rib. Applied 4nato»»/.—Occasionally the coalescence of the lamina; is not completed, and consequently a cleft is left in the arches of the vertebra, through wiiich a protrusion of the spinal membranes (dura mater and arachnoid), and generally of the spinal cord itself, takes place, constituting the malformation known as spina bifida. This condition is most common in the lumbo-saeral region, but it may occur in the thoracic or cervical region, or the arches tluonghout the \\hole length of the canal may remain incomplete. °The construction of the movable part of the vertebral column of a number of pieces, securely connected together and enjoying only a slight degree of movement between any tw'o individual pieces, Init jiermitting of a very considerable range as a whole, allows a sufficient degree of mobilitv without any material diminution of strength. The many joints of which the column is composed, together with the very varied movements to which it is subjected, render it liable to sprains ; but, so closely are the individual vertebrre articulated that these sprains are rarely severe, and an amount of violence sufficiently great to produce tearing of the ligaments would tend rather to cause a dislocation or fracture. The further safety of the column and its slight liability to injury is provided for by its disposition in curves, instead of in a straight line. For it is an elastic column, and must bend before it breaks ; imder these circumstances, being made up of three cui'ves, it represents three columns, and greater force is required to produce bending of a short column than of a longer one that is equal to it in breadth and material. Again, the safety of the column«s largely provided for by the presence between the bodies of the intervertebral discs, which act as liuffers in counteracting the effects of violent jars or shocks. . Fracture-dislocation of the vertebral column may be caused by direct or indirect violence. Fractures from indirect violence are the more common, and here the Ijodies of the vertebi-fe are compressed, while the arches are torn asunder ; in fracture from dii-ect violence, on the other hand, the arches are compressed and the bodies of the vertebi-ffi separated from each other. It will therefore he seen that in both classes of injury the spinal cord is the part least likely to be injured, and may escape damage even where there has been considerable lesion of the bony framework. When a fractiu'e- dislocation is produced by indirect violence, the displacement is almost always the same ; the upper segment being driven forwards on the lower, so that the cord is compressed between the body of the vertebra below and the arch of the vertebra above. Diseases of the »S';5Mie.—Spinal caries, or tuberculous disease affecting the cancellous tissue of the bodies of the verteluae, is a very common condition. When the bodies, having been destroyed, begin to fall together, the spinous ])rocesses are necessarily thrown back- wards and stand out prominently, especially if the disea.se affect the thoracic region, which is most commonly the case. The condition then goes by the name of angular curvature and great rigidity of the muscles in the affected region accompanies it. Pressure, by the inflammatory thickenings of the disease, is apt to involve the spinal nerves in the affected region, giving rise to peripheral pains, and if the disease be in the lower thoracic yertebi'iie the pains are referred to the cjiigastrie or umbilical regions, and often the chief tiling complained of is ' belly-ache.' Chronic abscess formation in spinal caries is very frequent, and it nearly always forms in front of the vertebral bodies. When the disease is in the lower thoracic region, the abscess usually tracks down behind the Diaphragm and enters the psoas sheath, forming the well-known psoas abscess, which may ])resont above Pou])art s ligament, or may pass beneath it into the thigh. In other cases the abscess takes a back- ward course between the transverse {irocesses and [jresents as a dorsal or lumbar abscess ; if the disease affect the cervical region of the spine, a posi-pharyngeal abscess results. Lateral curvature of the spine is a common affection in girls who are outgrowing their strength and who sit or stand long at lessons, and is due to the uneven transmission of wcinht down the column. In addition to the lateral displacement of the spinous processes there is a marked rotation of the. bodies of the vertebra;, the displacement of which is far in excess of that of the spinous processes. When the curve is severe and the bones have actually become distorted, the condition is past treatment. Kyphosis is an affection in which there is an increase in the normal thoracic curve, and is due to bending forwards of the upjier part of the body carrying the weight of