MYOLOGY 514 the cartilages of tlie ribs, and being covered merely by the tendon of tlie External oblique. The Pyramidalis is a small muscle, triangular in shape, placed at the lower part of the abdomen in front of tlie Rectus, and contained in the sheatii of that muscle. It arises by tendinous fibres from the front of the pubis and the anterior pubic ligament ; the fleshy portion of tlie muscle passes upwards, diminishing in size as it ascends, and terminates by a pointed extremity which is inserted into the linea alba, midway between the umbilicus and the pubis. This muscle may be wanting on one or both sides ; the lower end of the Rectus then becomes proportionately increased in size. Occasionally it is double on one side, and the muscles of the two sides are sometimes of unequal size. It may extend higher than the level stated above. Besides the Rectus and Pyramidalis muscles, the sheath of the Rectus contains the superior and deep epigastric arteries, and the terminations of the lumbar arteries and lower intercostal arteries and nerves. Nerves.—The abdominal muscles are supplied by the lower intercostal nerves. The Traiisversalis and Internal oblique also receive filaments from the hypogastric branch of the iUo-hypogastric and sometimes from the ilio-inguinal. The Cremaster is supplied by the genital branch of the genito-crural and the Pyramidalis usually by the twelfth thoracic. The linea alba is a tendinous raphe seen along the middle line of tlie abdomen, extending from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis jDubis, and attached to both. It is placed between the inner borders of the Recti, and is formed by the blending of the aponeuroses of the Obliqui and Trans- FiG. 509.—Diagram of a transverse section through the anterior abdominal wall, below the semilunar fold of Douglas. versales muscles. It is narrow below, corresponding to the linear interval existing between the Recti ; but broader above, as these muscles diverge from one another in their ascent; it becomes of considerable breadth after great distension of the abdomen from pregnancy or ascites. At its lower end the linea alba has a double attachment—its superficial fibres passing in front of the inner heads of the Recti to the symphj^sis pubis, wliile its deeper fibres form a triangular lamella, attached behind the Recti to the posterior hp of the crest of the pubis, and named the adminiculum linece alhce. It presents numerous apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves ; the umbilicus, which in the foetus exists as an aperture and transmits tlie umbilical vessels, is obliterated in the adult, the cicatrix being stronger than the neighbouring parts ; hence umbdical hernia occurs in the adult near the umbilicus, while in the foetus it occurs at the umbilicus. The lineae semilunares are two curved tendinous lines placed one on eitlier side of the linea alba. Each corresponds with the outer border of the Rectus muscle, extends from the cartilage of the ninth rib to the pubic spine, and is formed by the aponeurosis of the Internal oblique at its point of division to enclose the Rectus, reinforced in front by that of the External oblique, and behind by that of the Transversalis. , , . , , Actions.—When the pelvis and thorax are fixed, the abdominal muscles com- press the abdominal viscera, by constricting the cavitv of the abdomen, in which action they are materially assisted by the descent of the Diaphragm By these means assistance is given "in expelling the foetus from the uterus, the ff^es fro the rectum, the urine from the bladder, and the contents of the stomach m vomiting.