107 DEVELOPMENT OF THE PARIETES olfactory pits Later, the trabeculas meet and fuse below the pituitary body, forming the floor of the pitiiitarv fossa, and so cutting oflt the anterior lobe of the pituitary body from the stomatodajum. The mesial part of the ethmoidal plate forms the bony and cartilaginous parts of the nasal septum. From the lateral margins of the trabecular cranii three processes grow out on either side. The anterior forms the lateral mass of the ethmoid and the alar cartilages of the nose ; the middle gives rise to the lesser wing of the sphenoid, while from the posterior the greater wing and external pterygoid plate of the sphenoid are developed (figs. 133, 134). The bones of the vault are of membranous formation, and are termed dermal or covering hones. They are partly developed from the mesoderm of the primordial cranium, and partly from that which hes outside the entoderm of the fore-gut. They comprise the upper part of the tabvUar portion of the occipital (interparietal), the squamous-temporals and tympanic plates, the parietals, the fi'ontal, the vomer, the internal pterygoid plates, and the bones of the face. Some of them remain distinct throughout life (e.g. parietal and frontal), while others join with the bones of the chondrocranium (e.g. inter- parietal, squamous-temporals, and internal pterygoid plates). Fig. 134.—The same model as shown in fig. 133 from the left side. For. optic. Lesser wiug of sphenoid Greater wing of sphenoid y^asal \{,psule iSept nasi . Maxilla For. hypogl. Cricoid cart. Thyroid cart Certain of the membrane-boiics of the right side are represented in yellow. Eecent observations have shown that, in mammals, the basi-cranial cartilage, both in the chordal and prechordal regions of the base of the skull, is developed as a single plate which extends from behind forwards. In man, however, its posterior pai-t shows an indication of being developed from two choudrifying centres which fuse rapidly in front and below. The relation of this cartilaginous plate to the notochord differs in different animals. In the rat embryo it lies beneath the notochord (Eobinson) ; in the sheep, pig, calf, and ferret, the cranial part of the notochord is enclosed within it; in man, the anterior and posterior thirds of the cartilage surround the notochord, but its middle third lies on the dorsal aspect of the notochord, which in this region is placed between the cartilage and the wall of the pharynx. The visceral arches.—In the lateral walls of the anterior part of the fore-gut a series of furrows or incomplete clefts appears (fig. 135). These are named the visceral clefts, and take origin as paired grooves or pouches in the sides of the fore- gut ; over each groove a corresponding indentation of the ectoderm occurs, so that the latter comes into contact with the entodermal lining of the fore-gut, and the two layers unite along the floors of the grooves to form thin septa between the