SACRAL PLEXUS 981 Fig. 812.—Segmental distribution of the cutaneous nerves of the right lower extremity. Posterior view. «0 The branches of the nerve, before its division, are articular and muscular. The artiadar branches arise from the upper part of the nerve ; they supply the liip-joint, perforating the posterior part of its fibrous capsule, ihcse branches are sometimes deiived from the sacral plexus. The muscular branches are distributed to the flexors of the leg : viz. the Biceps, Semitendinosus, and Semimembranosus, and to the Adductor magnus. The nerve to the short head of the Biceps comes from the external popliteal part of the great sciatic, while the other muscular branches arise from the internal pophteal portion, as may be seen in those cases where the two popliteal nerves emerge separately on the buttock. The internal popliteal (n. tibiahs), the larger of the two terminal branches of the great sciatic, arises from the anterior branches of the last two lumbar and first three sacral nerves. It descends along the back part of the thigh, through the middle of the pophteal space, to the lower part of the Popliteus muscle, where it passes with the pophteal artery beneath the arch of the Soleus, and becomes the posterior tibial. It is overlapped by the hamstring muscles above, and then becomes more superficial, and hes to the outer side of, and some dis- tance from, the popliteal vessels ; opposite the knee-joint, it is in close relation with the vessels, and crosses to the inner side of the artery. Below, it is overlapped by the Gastrocnemius. The branches of this nerve are, articular, muscular, and a cutaneous branch, tbp. emmmmieans-Ubialis.''''^*-'^'^^''^^, The articular branches, usually thi-ee in number, supply the knee-joint; two of these accompany the superior and inferior internal articular arteries ; and a third, the azygos articular artery. The muscular branches, four or five in number, arise from the nerve as it Hes between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle ; they supply that muscle, and tiie Plantaris, Soleus, and Pophteus. The branch which supphes the Popliteus turns round the lower border and is distributed to the deep surface of the muscle. The communicans tibialis (n. cutaneus surse medialis) descends between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle, and, about the middle of the back of the leg, pierces the deep fascia, and joins a com- municating branch {communicans peronei) from the external popliteal nerve to form the external, or short, saphenous nerve (fig. 811). The external saphenous (n. suralis), formed by the communicating branches of the in- ternal and external popliteal nerves, passes downwards and outwards near the outer margin of the tendo Achilhs, lying close to Posteriii tibial S. l.'i