SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY 657 The left subclavian artery is more deeply placed than the right in the first part of its course, and, as a rule, does not reach quite as high a level in the nock. It should be borne in niind that the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle corresponds pretty closely to the outer border of the Scalenus anticus, so that the third portion of the artery, the part most accessible for operation, lies immediately external to the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid. Applied Anatomy.—An aneurymi may foi'm on any part of the subclavian artery, except the intrathoracic portion of the left vessel, which is said never to be the seat of aneurysm. The most common site is, however, the third portion, especially on the right side, on account of the greater exposure to injury and the greater amouiit of use of the right upper extremity. In this situation it may cause pressure on the brachial plexus, producing pain and numbness in the arm and fingers, wth loss of power or paralysis of the muscles of these parts. CEdema of the arm may result from pressure on the sub- clavian vein. The external jugular vein may become distended and varicose. The treatment is unsatisfactory, since proximal Ugature cannot be undertaken with much chance of success. If constitutional treatment and direct pressure on the aneurysmal sac fail, the best treatment is excision of the sac, if it be small. In aneurysms of the first portion of this artery there is oedema of the head and face, vnth. Uvidity, congestion of the brain, and semi-consciousness from pressure on the internal jugular vein; and spasmodic action of the Diaphragm from pressure on the phrenic nerve. The collateral circulation is so good that blocldng of the subclavian artery by embolism or thrombosis often fails to give rise to any striking signs or symptoms, beyond occasional pains in the neck and shoulder and some degree of wealoiess and wasting in the muscles of the arm. Compression of the subclavian artery is required in cases of operations about the shoulder, in the axilla, or at the upper part of the arm ; and the student will observe that there is only one situation in which it can be effectually applied, viz. where the artery passes across the upper surface of the first rib. In order to compress the vessel in this situation,, the shoulder should be depressed, and the sm-geon grasping the side of the neck should press vnth. his thumb in the angle formed by the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid with the upper border of the clavicle, downwards, backwards, and inwards against the rib ; if from any cause the shoulder cannot be sufficiently depressed, pres-sure may be made from before backwards, so as to. compress the artery against the Scalenus medius and transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. In appropriate cases, a preliminary incision may be made through the cervical fascia, and the finger may be pressed down directly upon the artery. Ligature of the subclavian artery may be required in cases of wounds, or of aneurysm in the axilla, or in cases of aneurysm on the cardiac side of the point of ligature ; and the third part of the artery is that which is most favoui'able for an operation, on account of its being comparatively superficial, and most remote fi-om the origin of the large branches. In those cases where the clavicle is not displaced, this operation may be performed with comparative facility ; but where the clavicle is pushed up by a large aneurysmal tumour in the axilla, the artery lies at a great depth from the surface, and this materially increases the difficulty of the operation. Under these circumstances, it becomes a matter of importance to consider the height to which this vessel reaches above the bone. In ordinary cases, its arch is about half an inch above the clavicle, occasionally as high as an inch and a half, and sometimes so low as to be on a level ■with its upper border. If the clavicle be displaced, these variations will necessarily make the operation more or less difficult, according as the vessel is less or more accessible. The vessel is also ligatured as a prehminary measure to the complete interscapulo-thoracic amputation of the upper extremity, in which case the suprascapular and transverse cervical arteries may, if found, be Ugatured at the same time, making the ' fore-quarter ' amputation an almost bloodless procedure. The procedure in the operation of tying the third portion of the subclavian artery is as follows: The patient being placed on a table in the supine position, with the head dra^vn over to the opposite side, and the shoulder depressed as much as possible, the integument should be pulled do^\^lwa^ds over the clavicle, and an incision made through it, upon that bone, from the anterior border of the Trapezius to the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid. The object in drawing the skin do\vnwards is to avoid any risk of woimding the external jugular vein, for as it perforates the deep fascia above the clavicle, it cannot be drawn do\vnwards with the skin. The soft parts should now be allowed to glide up, and the cervical fascia divided upon a director, and if the interval between the Trapezius and Sterno-mastoid muscles be insufficient for the performance of the opera- tion, a portion of one or both may be divided. The external jugular vein will now bo seen towards the inner side of the wound ; this and the suprascapular and transverse cervical veins which terminate in it should be held aside. If the external jugular vein be at all in the way and exposed to injury, it should be tied in two places and cUvided. The suprascapular artery should be avoided, and the Omo-hyoid muscle held aside if necessary. In the space beneath this muscle, careful search must be made for the vessel a deep layer of fascia and some connective tissue having been divided carefully, the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus muscle must be felt for, and the finger being guided by it to the