570 MYULUCIY and tuberosity. This bony surface is covered by smooth cartilage, whicli is separated from the tendon by a synovial bursa, and presents one or more ridges corresponding with the furrows between the tendinous bands. Tiiese bands leave the j)elvis by the small sacro-sciatic foramen and unite into a single flattened tendon, wliich passes liorizontally outwards, and, after receiving the attachments of the Gemelli, is insei-ted into the fore part of the inner surface of the great trochanter in front of the Pyi'iformis. A synovial bursa, narrow and elongated in form, is usually found between the tendon and the capsular ligament of the hip : it occasionally communicates with the bursa between tlie tendon and the tuberosity of the ischium. Relations.—Within the pelvis, this muscle is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the obturator membrane and inner surface of the anterior wall of the pelvis ; by its ■posterior surface, with the obturator fascia, and the origin of the Levator ani, and v\-ith the internal pudic vessels and nerve which cross it. The posterior surface forms the outer Ijoundary of the isohio-rectal fossa. External to the pelvis, the muscle is covered by the Gluteus maximus, crossed by the great sciatic nerve, and rests on the back part of the hip-joint. When the tendon of the Obtm-ator internus emerges from the small sacro- sciatic foramen it is overlapped both in front and behind by the two Gemelli which form a muscular canal for it; near its insertion the Gemelli pass in front of the tendon and form a groove in which it lies. The Gemelli are two small muscular fasciculi, accessories to the tendon of the Obturator internus which is received into a groove between them. They are called superior and inferior. The Gemellus superior, the smaller of the two, arises from the outer surface of the spine of the ischium, and passing horizontally outwards becomes blended with the upper part of the tendon of the Obturator internus, and is inserted with it into the inner surface of the great trochanter. It is sometimes wanting. The Gemellus inferior arises from the upper part of the tuberosity of the ischium, where it forms the lower edge of the groove for the Obturator internus tendon. Passing horizontally outwards, it blends with the lower jDart of the tendon of the Obturator internus, and is inserted with it into the inner surface of the great trochanter. The Quadratus femoris is a fiat, quadrilateral muscle, between the Gemellus; inferior and the upper margin of the Adductor magnus ; it is separated from the latter by tlie terminal branches of the internal cu'cumflex vessels. It arises from the upper part of the external lip of the tuberosity of the ischmra, and proceeding horizontally outwards, is inserted into the upper part of the linea quadrata—that is, the line which extends vertically down^^•ards from the posterior intertrochanteric line. A synovial bursa is often found between the front of this muscle and the small trochanter which it covers. The Obturator externus (fig. 545) is a flat, triangular muscle, which covers the outer surface of the anterior wall of the pelvis. It arises from tlie margin of bone immediately around the inner side of the obturator foramen . viz from the body and ramus of the pubis, and the ramus of the ischium : it also arises from the inner two-thirds of the outer surface of the obturator membrane, and from the tendinous arch which completes the canal for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerves. The fibres from the pubic arcii extend on to the inner surface of the bone, ^^'here they obtain a narro^^• ori.^in between the margin of the foramen and the attachment of the mem- brane. The fibres converge and pass backwards outwards, and upwards and terminate in a tendon which runs across the back part of the hip-joint and is inserted into tiie digital fossa of the fenuir. Tiie obturatnr vessel, lie between the muscle and the obturator membrane ; the supeHicial pait of the obturator nerve reaches the thigh by passing in front of the muscU. and the deep branch of tlie same nerve by piercing it. , ^ . i Nervel-The Gluteus maximus is supplied by the fifth lumbar and first and second sacral nerves through the inferior gluteal 'l^'T,*^/™'" .J' the Gluteus medius and nrinimus, by the f^urt i and fifth 1^"'?^ \ " ; nerves tlirough the superior gluteal; the Pyriformis is supplied by the hr.t am econd sacral nerves ; the Gemellus inferior and 9-^™*-, i'jvto us lumbar and first sacral nerves ; the Gemellus supomr and ^^"^'^T^^:^ the first, second, and third sacral nerves, and the Obturator externus hy the Ihn.l and fourth lumbar nerves through the obturator.