1236 SPLANCHNOLOGY fascia, and close to the raiddlo line, on either side, by the Sterno-hyoid. Across its upper border runs a branch of tlie superior thyroid artery ; at its lower border are the inferior thyroid veins. Sometimes the isthmus is altogether wanting. A third lobe, of conical shape, called the 'pyramid, frequently arises from the upper part of the isthmus, or from the adjacent portion of either lobe but most commonly the left, and ascends as high as the hyoid bone. It is occasionally quite detached, or may be divided into two or more parts! A fibrous or muscular band is sometimes found attached, above, to the body of the hyoid bone, and below to the isthmus of the gland, or its pyramidal process. When muscular, it is termed the Levator glandulce thyreoideoe. Small detached portions of thyroid tissue are sometimes found in the vicinity of the lateral lobes or above the isthmus ; they are called accessory thyroids. Structure.—The thyroid body is invested by a thin cap.sule of connective tissue, whicli projects into its substance and imperfectly divides it into masses of irregular form and size. When the organ is cut into, it is of a brownish-red colour, and is seen to be made up of a number of closed vesicles, containing a yellow glairy fluid, and separated from each other by intermediate connective tissue. According to Baber, the vesicles of the thyroid of the adult animal are generally closed cavities ; but in some young animals (e.g. young dogs) the vesicles are more or less tubular and branched. This appearance he supposes to be due to the mode of growth of the gland, and merely indicating that an increase in the number of vesicles is taking place. Each vesicle is composed of a fine basement-membrane, lined by a single layer of cubical epithehum, sm-rounding a large lumen ; between the epithelial cells exists a deUcate reticulum. The vesicles are of various sizes and shapes, and contain as a normal product a viscid, homo- FiG. 1022.—Minute structure of thyroid. From a transverse section of the thyroid of a dog. (Semi-diagrammatic.) (Baber.) Lymphatic vessel Vesicle Artery Wall of fflaiid-vesirle geneous, semi-fluid, slightly yellowish, colloid material; red corpuscles are found in it in various stages of disintegration and decolorisation, the j'ellow tinge being probably due to the h.nemoglobin, which is thus set free from the coloured corpuscles. The colloid material contains an iodine comjjound, thyroidin, readilj' stained bj' eosin. It passes out between the cubical cells and is absorbed into the blood or lymph. The capillary blood-vessels form a dense plexus in the connective tissue around the vesicles, between the epithelium of the vesicles and the endothelium of the Ivmpliatics, which surround a greater or smaller part of the circumference of the ve.sicle. The lymphatic vessels run in the interlobular connective tissue, not uncouimouly surrounding the arteries which they accompany, and communicate with a network in (he capsule of the gland. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries sup])lying the thyroid are the superior and inferior thyroid, and sometimes an additional branch (thyreoidea media oi- inia) from the innomi-