SYNDESMOLOGY 452 metatarsal bone and the middle cuneiform is to be found on the dorsum of the foot, half an inch behind the level of the tarso-mctatarsal joint of the great too. Tlie hne of tin- joints between the metatarsal bones and the first phalanges is about an inch behind the webs of the corresponding toes. Applied Anatomy.—Gout peculiarly ailccts the metatarso-phalangcal joint of the biL' toe, beginning with the deposit of sodium and calcium urates in the cartilage on the bones forming the joint, and slow necrosis of the surrounding tissue. Later the circum- articular fibrous tissue becomes the seat of these goutj^ deposits, and considerable thickening and deformity may result. The other chief joint-affections, such as rheumatism, gonorrhceal arthritis, tuberculosis, or syphilis, comparatively seldom attack the big too joint. Arches of the Foot In order to allow of its supporting the weight of the body in the erect posture with the least expenditure of material, the foot is constructed of a series of arches which are formed by the tarsal and metatarsal bones, but are strengthened by tli ( ligaments and tendons of the foot. The main arches are the antero-posterior arches, which may, for descriptive purposes, be regarded as divisible into two types—an inner and an outer. The inner arch (see fig. 417, page 363) is made up by the os calcis, the astragalus, the na\acular, the three cuneiforms, and the inner three metatarsals. Its summit is at the superior articular surface of the astragalus, and its two extremities or piers, on which it rests in standing, are the tubercles on the inferior surface of the OS calcis posteriorly and the heads of the inner three metatarsal bones anteriorly. The chief characteristic of this arch is its elasticity, due to its height and to the number of small joints between its component parts. Its weakest part, i.e. the part where it is most liable to yield from over-pressure, is the joint between the astragalus and navicular, but this portion is braced by the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament which is elastic and is thus able to quickly restore the arch to its pristine condition when the disturbing force is removed. This ligament is supported internally by blending with the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint and inferiorly by the tendon of the Tibialis posticus which is spread out in a fan-shaped insertion, and prevents undue tension of the ligament or such an amomit of stretching as would permanently elongate it. The arch is further supported by the plantar fascia, by the small muscles in the sole of the foot, by the tendons of the Tibiales anticus et posticus and Peroneus longus, and by the ligaments of all the articulations involved. The outer arch (see fig. 418. page 363) is composed of the os calcis, the cuboid, and the fourth and fifth nieta- tarsals. Its summit is at the calcaneo-astragaloid articulation, and its chief joint is the calcaneo-cuboid, which possesses a special mechanism for locking and allows only a limited movement. The most marked features of this arch are its solidity and its slight elevation; two strong ligaments, the long and short inferior calcaneo-cuboid, together with the outer Extensor tendons and the short muscles of the little toe, preserve its integrity. WhWc these inner and outer arches may be readily demonstrated as the component antero-posterior arches of the foot, yet the fundamental longUndinal arch is contributed to by both, and consists of the os calcis, cuboid, external cuneiform, and third metatarsal : all the other bones of the foot may be removed without destroying this arch. In addition to the longitudinal arches the foot presents a series of transver.so arches. At the hinder part of the metatarsus and the anterior part of the tarsus the arches are complete, but in the middle of the tarsus they present more the characters of half-domes the concavities of \vhich are directed downwards and inwards, so that when the inner borders of the feet are placed in apposition a complete tarsal dome is formed. The transverse arches are strengthened b}- the interosseous, plantar and dorsal ligaments, by the short muscles of the first and fifth toes (especially the Adductor transversus hallucis), and by the Peroneus longus, whose tendon stretches across between the piers of the arches.