1086 SPLANCHNOLOGY The primary branches of the hronclms, upon entering the substance of tlie lung, dividfe and subdivide into smaller tubes throughout the entire organ. Each of the smaller sub- divisions of tlie bronchus enters a pulmonary lobule, and is termed an iniraldbular bronchus. This gives oS collateral branches and then bifurcates about the centre of the lobule; these bifurcations divide at right angles to the previous plane of division and the process is repeated until a large number of ultimate bronchi (bronchioles) are formed. Each bronchiole now becomes enlarged, and is termed the atrium or alveolar passage ; from it are given off, on all sides, ramifications, called injundibula, which are closely beset in all directions by alveoli or air-sacs. Changes in the structure of the bronchi in the lungs.—In the lobes of the lungs the following changes take place. The cartilages are not segments of rings, but consist of small oval or angular patches scattered kregularly along the sides of the tube, being most distinct at the points of division of the bronchi; as the bronchi approach their termina- tions the cartilages disappear. The muscular coat {bronchial muscle) is disposed in the form of a continuous layer of annular fibres, which may be traced upon the smallest bronchial tubes, and consists of the unstriped variety of muscular tissue ; at the termination of the bronchioles in the atria the muscle forms a definite circular band (Miller). The layers of epithelial cells diminish in number and in the terminal bronchioles only a single layer of non-ciliated flattened cells exists. The air-sacs are small polyhedral recesses, composed of a basement membrane sur- rounded by a few involuntary muscular and elastic fibres, and lined by flattened squamous epithelium, with sinuous outlines ; between these cells are seen small oval granular cells. Vessels and Nerves.—The pulmonary artery conveys the venous blood to the lungs ; it divides into branches which accompany the bronchial tubes and terminate in a dense capillary network upon the walls of the air-sacs. In the lung, the branches of the pulmonary artery are usually above and in front of a bronchial tube, the vem below. The pulmonary capillaries form plexuses which lie immediately beneath the mucous membrane, in the walls and septa of the au--sacs, and of the infundibula. In the septa between the ak-sacs the capillary network forms a smgle layer. The capillaries form a very minute network, the meshes of which are smaller than the vessels themselves ; their walls are also exceedingly thin. The arteries of neighbourmg lobules are independent of each other, but the veins freely anastomose. . The pulmonary veins commence in the pulmonary capillaries, the radicles coalescing into larger branches which run through the substance of the lung, independent y of the minute arteries and bronchi. After freely communicating with other branches they form large vessels, which ultimately come into relation with the arteries and bronchial tubes, and accompany them to the hilus of the organ. Fmally they open into the left auricle of the heart, conveying oxygenated blood to be distributed to all parts of the body by the aorta. The bronchial arteries supply blood for the nutrition of the lung; they are derived from the thoracic aorta or from the upper aortic intercostal arteries, and, accompanying the bronchial tubes, are distributed to the bronchial glands, and upon the walls of the larger bronchial tubes and pulmonary vessels. Tliose supplying the bronchial tubes foi-m a capillary plexus in the muscular coat, from which branches are given off to form a second plexus in the mucous coat. This plexus communicates with branches of the pulmonary artery, and empties itself into the pulmonary veins. Others are distributed in the inter- lobular areolar tissue, and terminate partly in the deep, partly m the superficial, bronchial veins. Lastly, some ramify upon the surface of the lung, beneath the pleui-a, where they ^"""^helrmSMldnt'iovmed at the root of the lung, receiving superficial and deep veins corresponding to branches of the bronchial artery. It does not, however, receive all the blood supplied by the artery, as some of it passes mto the pulmonary vems. It termiLtes on the^right side in the vena azygos major, and on the left side in the superior intercostal or vena azygos minor superior. The lymphatics are described on page 792. , , . i „„„^„ „i„vn«P.; Nerves.--The lungs are supplied from the anterior and posterior pulmonary P exuses formed chiefly by branches Ivom the sympathetic and 1—g^^^v'nrJtst^ S from these plexuses accompany the bronchial tubes, upon which they are lost. Small ''''iXl'FZt-^Z J/x oUheXng is situated in the neck, behind the interval between theTv^o heads of origin !.f the Sterno'mastoid. The height to .^nch it nses above 1 - clavicle varies very con.siderably, but is generally about an mch. It Sentas m" ch as an inch and a half or an inch and three-quarters, on on the o ^e^^^^^^^^^ it mav scarcely project, above the level of this bone. In order to maik out antenor maS of thl^ung a line is to be drawn from the apex point, an inch «bov« the lc^e of the elavic e and rather nearer the posterior than the anterior border of tl^^ Sterno Itm^rscV downwards and inwalds across ^^^Z he manubrium sterni until it meets, or almost ni<^ets, it^s fe lo« f^ J^^^^^ two level of the articulation of the manubrium and gladiolus. Iro n tins ])oim im ne are toLwn downwards, rather to the left of far as the level of the articulation of the fourth costal XVsl V^^ down- here the two lines diverge, the left at first passmg out^^ nrds ^^ ith a slight inclinai.o