1137 THE STOMACH covering ita surface, the pyloric valve. They are continuous with the cu'cular fibres of the ojsophagus, but are sharply marked off from the circular fibres of the duodenum. The oblique fibres are limited chiefly to the cardiac end of the stomach, where they are cUsposed as a thick uniform layer, covering both surfaces, some passmg obliquely from left to right, others from right to left, round the cardiac end. The areolar or submucous coal consists of a loose, areolar tissue, connectmg the mucous and muscular layers. _ i,. T^ufi, The mucous membrane is thick and its surface is smooth, soft, and velvety. In the tresh state it is of a pinkish tinge at the pyloric end, and of a red or reddish-brown colour over the rest of its surface. In infancy it is of a brighter hue, the vascular redness being more marked. It is thin at the cardiac extremity, but thicker towards the pylorus. During the contracted state of the organ it is thrown into numerous plaits or rugne, which, for the most part, have a longitudinal direction, and are most marked towards the lessor end of the stomach, and along the greater curvature (fig. 935). These folds are entirely obliterated when the organ becomes distended. Structure of the Mucous Membrane.—When examined with a lens, the inner surface of the mucous membrane presents a peculiar honeycomb appearance from being covered Fig. 938.—Pyloric gland. Fig. 939.—Cardiac gland. with small shallow depressions or alveoli, of a polygonal or hexagonal form, which vary from Y?t!7 to uJi, of inch in diameter, and are separated by slightly elevated ridges. In the bottom of the alveoli are seen the orifices of minute tubes, the gastric glands, which are situated perpendicularly side by side throughout the entLre substance of the mucous membrane. The surface of the mucous membrane of the stomach is covered by a single layer of columnar epithelium ; it lines the alveoli, and also for a certain distance the mouths of the gastric glands. This epithelium commences very abruptly at the cardiac orifice, where the cells suddenly change in character from the stratified epithelium of the oesophagus. The gastric glands are of two kinds, (a) pyloric and (6) cardiac or oxyniic glands. They are both tubular in character, and are formed of a delicate basement-membrane, lined by epithehum; the basement-membrane consists of flattened transparent endotheUal cells. The pyloric glands (fig. 938) are most numerous at the pyloric end of the stomach, and from this fact have received their name. Tliey consist of two or three short closed tubes opening into a common duct or mouth, the external orifice of which is situated at the bottom of an alveolus. These tubes are wavy, and are about equal in length to the duct. The tubes and duct are lined throughout with epithelium, the duct being lined by columnar cells, continuous with the epithelium lining the surface of the mucous 4d