THE LIVER 1165 The lateral or right surface is covered by peritoneum, and is convex from before backwards and slightly so from above downwards. It is directed towards the right side, forming the base of the wedge, and hes against the lateral portion of the Diaphragm, which separates it from the lower part of the pleura and lung, outside \\\\ich. are the right costal arches from the seventh to the eleventh inclusive. The inferior or visceral surface (figs. 960, 961) is uneven, concave, directed downwards, backwards, and to the left, and is in relation -witli the stomach and duodenum, the hepatic flexure of the colon, and the right kidney and suprarenal gland. The surface is almost completely invested by peritoneum ; the only parts where tliis covering is absent are where the gall-bladder is attaclied to the Uver, and at the transverse fissure where the two layers of the lesser omentum are separated from each other by the blood-vessels and ducts of the Aascus. The inferior surface of the left lobe presents behind and to the left an impression (impressio cardiaca) where it is moulded over the cardiac part of the stomach, and to the right of this a rounded eminence, the tuber omentale, which fits into the concavity of the lesser curvature of the stomach Fig. 960.—The liver. Inferior surface. (Drawn from His' model.) Right lateral ligavicnt Ligamentum teres and lies in front of the anterior layer of the lesser omentum. The under surface of the right lobe is divided into tAvo unequal portions by a fossa, tlie fossa vesicalis (fossa vesicae fellese), which lodges the gaU-bladder ; the i^ortion to the' left, the smaller of the tAvo, is the quadrate lobe, and is in relation Mith the pyloric end of the stomach and the first portion of the duodenum. The portion of the under surface of the right lobe to the right of the fossa vesicalis presents two shallow impressions, one situated beliind the other, the two being separated by a ridge. The anterior of these two impressions, the impressio colica, is produced by the hepatic flexure of the colon ; the posterior, the impressio renalis, is occupied by the upper part of the right Iddney and lower part of the right suprarenal gland. To the inner side of the renal impression is a tliird and slightly marked impression, l3dng between it and the neck of the gall-bladder. This is caused by the second portion of the duodenum, and is known as the impressio duodenalis. Just in front of the inferior vena cava is a narrow strip of Uver tissue, the caudate lobe, which connects the right inferior angle of the Spigelian lobe to the under surface of the right lobe. It forms the upper boundary of the foramen of Winslow.