MAXILL.E 243 of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and presents a groove, for the second division of the fifth cranial nerve ; this groove is directed outwards and slightly upwards, and becomes continuous with the infra-orbital groove on the orbital surface. Tlie superior or orbital surface (facies orbitalis) (fig. 313) is smooth and triangular, and forms the greater part of the floor of the orbit. It is bounded internally by an irregular margin which in front presents a notch, the lachrymal notch (incisura lacrimalis); behind this notch the margin articulates with the lachrymal, the os planum of the ethmoid and the orbital process of the palate. It is bounded behind by a smooth rounded edge which forms the anterior margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure, and sometimes articulates at its outer extremity with the orbital plate of the sphenoid. It is limited in front by part of the cu-cumference of the orbit, which is continuous on the iiiner side with the frontal process, and on the outer side with the zygomatic process. Near the middle line of the posterior part of the orbital surface is a deep groove, the infra-orbital (sulcus infraorbitalis), for the passage of the infra- orbital vessels and nerve. The groove begins at the middle of the posterior border, where it is continuous with that near the upper edge of the posterior Fig. 313.—Left maxilla. Outer surface. Tejjdo Dilatator naris posterior- Incisive fossa Posterior dental canal Maxillary tuberosity ■Bicusjiicl- surface, and, passmg forwards, ends in a canal, which subdivides into two branches. One of the canals, the infra-orbital (canalis infraorbitalis), opens just below themargm of the orbit; the other, which is smaller, runs down- wards m the substance of the anterior wall of the antrum ; it is called the anterior dental canal, and transmits the anterior dental vessels and nerve to the front teeth of the maxiUa. From the back part of the infra-orbital canal, a second small canal is sometimes given off, which runs downwards in the outer waU of the antrum, and conveys the middle dental nerve to the bicuspid teetb; occasionally, this canal is derived from the anterior dental. At the inner and fore part of the orbital surface, just external to the lachrymal groove, is a depression, which gives origin to the Inferior oblique muscle of the eyeball. ine internal surface (facies nasalis) (fig. 314) presents a large, irregular opening leading into the antrum of Highmore. At the upper border of this aperture are some broken air-cells, which, in the articulated skull, are closed ui Dy the ethmoid and lachrymal bones. Below the aperture is a smooth concavity which forms part of the inferior meatus of the nasal fossa, and oemnd It is a rough surface for articulation with the perpendicular plate of ne palate bone ; this surface is traversed by a groove, commencing near the K 2