605 THE HEART The Eustachian valve (valvula venae cavse inferioris) is situated in front of tlie orifice of the inferior vena cava. It is semilunar in foiTO, its convex margin being attaclied to the anterior margin of the caval orifice ; its concave margin, wliich is free, terminates in two cornua, of which the left is continuous with the anterior edge of the annulus ovalis while the rigiit is lost on the wall of the auricle. The valve is formed by a duplicature of the lining membrane of the auricle, containing a iew muscular fibres. In the foetus this valve is of large size, and serves to direct the blood from the inferior vena cava, through the foramen ovale, into the left auricle. In the adult it occasionally persists, and may assist in preventing the reflux of blood into the inferior vena cava ; more commonly it is small, and may present a cribriform or filamentous appearance ; sometimes it is altogether wanting. The Thebesian valve (valvula sinus coronarii) is a semicircular fold of the lining membrane of the auricle, at the orifice of the coronary sinus. It prevents the regurgitation of blood into the sinus during the contraction of the auricle. Tliis valve may be double. The fossa ovalis is an oval depression on the posterior wall of the auricle, and corresponds to the situation of the foramen ovale in the foetus. It is situated at the lower part of the auricular septum, above and to the left of the orifice of the inferior vena cava. The annulus ovalis (limbus fossae ovalis) is the prominent oval margin of the fossa ovahs. It is most distinct above and at the sides of the fossa ; below, it is deficient. A small slit-like valvular opening is occasionally found, at the upper margin of the fossa ovalis, leading upwards, beneath the annulus, into the left auricle ; it is the remains of the foetal aperture between the two auricles. The tubercle of Lower (tuberculum intervenosum) is a small projection on the posterior wall of the auricle, above the fossa ovalis. It is distinct in the hearts of quadrupeds, but in man is scarcely visible. It was supposed by LoAver to direct the blood from the superior vena cava towards the auriculo-ventricular opening.