111 DEVELOPMENT OF THE PARIETES The rounded lateral angles of the mesial uasal process constitute the rjlohular processes of His (figs. 140, 141). The olfactory pits form the rudiments of the nasal cavities, and extend backwards between the mesial and lateral nasal processes into the roof of the stomatodfeum. From their ectodermal lining the olfactory epitheUum and part of the olfactory bulb are derived. The globular processes are prolonged backwards as plates, termed the nasal Imninm : these laminae are at first some distance apart, but, gradually approaching, they ulti- mately fuse, and form the nasal septum ; the processes themselves meet in the middle line, and form the premaxillse and the pbiltrum or central part of the upper Up (fig. 142). The depressed part of the fronto-uasal process between the globular processes forms the lower part of the nasal septum or columella ; while above this is seen a prominent angle, which becomes the future point, and still higher a flat area, the future bridge, of the nose (fig. 144). The lateral nasal processes form the alfe of the nose. Continuous wath the dorsal end of the mandibular arch, and growing forwards from its cephaUc border, is a triangular process—the maxillary process—the ventral extremity of which is separated from the mandibular arch by a >-shaped notch (fig. 139). The maxillary process grows forwards to form the outer wall and floor of the orbit, and meets with the lateral nasal process, from Fig. 141.—Under surface of the head of a human embryo about thirty days old. (After His.) Eye Uymnandibular cleft Brain capsule over cerebral hemisphere Lateral nasal process Olfactory pit Processus glohularis Maxillary 2>rocess Mandibular a/rch which, however, it is separated for a time by a groove—the oculo-nasal sulcus— that extends from the furrow encircling the eyeball to the oKactory pit. The maxillary processes ultimately fuse with the lateral nasal and globular processes, converting the oculo-nasal sulci into the lachrymal sacs and nasal ducts, and at the same time forming the lateral parts of the upper Up and the posterior boundaries of the anterior nares. The maxillary process also gives rise to the lower portion of the lateral waU of the nasal cavity—the upper part of this wall, together wnth the roof, being developed from the ethmoid plate of the cartilaginous chondro- cranium. The nasal cavity is shut off from the buccal part of the stomatodseum by the development of the palate, the greater part of which is formed by a pair of shelf-like palatal processes which extend inwards hom the maxillary j^rocesses (figs. 142, 143) ; these coalesce mth each other in the middle lino, and constitute the entire palate, except a small part in front which is formed by the premaxillary bones. The union of the palatal processes with the premaxillffi is deficient in the middle line, where an aperture remains—the naso-palatine canal. The union of the parts which form the palate commences in front, the premaxillary and palatal processes joining in the eighth week, while the region of the future hard palate is completed by the ninth, and that of the soft palate by the eleventh week. The deformity known as cleft palate results from a non-union of the palatal processes,