ANIvLE-JOTNT 443 • 1 .1 ,,«a=;v.lv nko hv the bending of the shaft of the fibnla. Of the articula ion and p^^^^^^^^^^ i7of very gre.xf power-so mneh so, that it usually Sra fort 4StS^^^^^^^ the process of Lne to which it is attached. Its middle portion together with the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament, ITncb the bones of the leg firmly to the foot, and resists displacement in every Sion Its anterior and posterior fibres Umit extension and flexion of the foo rrsrectively, and the anterior fibres also limit abduction. The posterior portion Se external lateral Ugament assists the middle portion m resistmg the displace- ment of the foot backwards, and deepens the cavity for the reception of the astragalus. The anterior fasciculus is a security against the displacement of the foot forwards, and limits extension of the joint , -^i, ^i, ■ + The Movements of inversion and eversion of the foot, together with the minute chan'^es in form by which it is appUed to the gromid or takes hold of an ob]ect in cUmWng &c., are mainly effected in the tarsal joints ; the pint which enjoys the grStest amoilnt of motion being that between the astragalus and os calcis behind, Fio. 477.—Coronal section of right ankle-joint and foot. Int. malleolus Int. lateral ligament Tibialis posticus Flexor longus digitonim Flexor longus hallucis Int. plantar nerve and vessels Accessorius Abductor hallticis Ext. plantar nerve and vessels Flexor hrevis digitorum Interosseous ligament External malleolus External lateral ligament Interosseous ligament Tendon of Peroneus brevis Tendon of Peroneus longiis Abductor minimi digiti and the navicular and cuboid in front. This is often called the transverse or inedio- tarsal joint, and it can, with the subordinate joints of the tarsus, replace the ankle- joint in a great measure when the latter has become ankylosed. Extension of the foot upon the tibia and fibula is produced by the Gastro- cnemius, Soleus, Plantaris, Tibialis posticus, Peronei longus et brevis. Flexor longus digitorum, and Flexor longus hallucis ; dorsiflexion, by the Tibialis anticus, Peroneus tertius, Extensor longus digitorum, and Extensor proprius hallucis.* Surface Form.—Tho level of the anlde-joint may be indicated by a transverse line dra^TO across the front of the lower part of the leg, about half an inch above the level of the tip of the internal malleolus. The joint can be felt on either side of the Extensor tendons ; and during extension of the foot, the superior facet of the astragalus can be perceived below the anterior border of the lower end of the tibia. The student must bear in mind that the E.xtensor longus digitorum and Extensor proprius hallucis are extensors of the toes, h^xt flexors of the ankle ; and that the llexor longus digitorum and Flexor longus hallucis are flexors of the toes, but extensors of the ankle.