RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS 415 u-rist ioint Its upper surface, smooth and concave, articulates with the i nf nlna forming an arthrodial joint ; its under surjace, also concave slotr omsTrt ?f the wrist-joint and articulates with the cuneiform '^nd part of ?^e semilunar. Both surfaces are clothed by synovial memSane :^he upper surface, by one peculiar to the radio-ulnar articulation , ( hp mider surface bv the synovial membrane ot the wrist. The Sv^vS MembrLe (fig. 459) of this articulation has been called, from Tts extreme l«ss, tlie membrana sacciformis ; it extends upwards etween tlie radius and the ulna, forming here a very loose cul-de-sao (recessus sacciformis). The quantity of synovia which it contains is usually considerable. Movements -The movements in the inferior radio-uhiar articulation are just the revle of those in the superior radio-uhiar joint. They consist of "^ovenients of rotation of the lower end of the radius round an axis which passes thiou.^h the celSL of the head of the ulna. When the radius rotates forwards, pona<zori o ^he forearm and hand is the result; and when backwards, suvinahon It will ius be seen that in pronation and supination of the forearm -^<i liand the radiu describes the segment of a cone, the axis of which extends from the centre of the head of the radius to the middle of the head of the ulna. In this movement the head of the ulna is not stationary, but describes a curve in a direction opposite to that taken by the head of the radius. This, however, is not to be ^'egarded as a rotation of the ulna-the curve which the head of this bone describes is due to a combined antero-posterior and lateral movement, the former talang place almost entirely at the elbow-joint, the latter at the shoulder-]oint. Surface Form—The position of the inferior radio-ulnar joint may be '-^^f ^ta/^f J feeling for a slight groove at the back of the between the prominent head of the ulna and the lower end of the radius, when the forearm is m a state of almost complete pronation. VI. RADIO-CARPAL OR WRIST-JOINT (ARTICULATIO RADIOCARPEA) The x^Tist-joint (figs. 456, 457) is a condyloid articulation. The parts entering into its formation are the lower end of the radius and under surface of the Lnterarticular fibro-cartUage above ; and the scaphoid, semdunar, and Fio. 456.—Ligaments of wrist and hand. Anterior view. Infei-ior radio-ulnar articulation f^^^^a Wrist-joint Carpal articulations Piso-unciform liqamcnt Piso-metacarpal Iigamrnt C'arpo-metacarpal articulations cuneiform bones below. The articular surface of the radius and the under surface of the lnterarticular fibro-cartilage form together a tran.sversely elliptical concave surface, the receiving cavity. The articular surfaces of the scaphoid, semUunar, and cuneiform present a smooth, convex surface, the