21 CONNECTI'SrE TISSUES oi flattened cells in close apposition, and joined together by their edges, thus formin" an example of an epithelioid arrangement of connective tissue cells. In some situations the cells, instead of adhering by their edges, give off branchiuf^ processes which join with similar processes of other cells, and so form a network rather than a continuous membrane. Some basement membranes arc composed of elastic tissue, as in the cornea, others are merely condensed matrix. Vessels and nerves of connective tissue. — The blood-vessels of connective tissue are very few—that is to say, there are few actually destined for the tissue itseK, although many vessels carrying blood to other structures may permeate one of its forms, the areolar tissue. In white fibrous tissue the blood-vessels usually rim parallel to the longitudinal bundles and between them, sending trans- verse communicating branches across ; in some forms, as in the periosteum and dura mater, they are fairly numerous. In yellow elastic tissue, the blood-vessels also run between the fibres, and do not penetrate them. Lymphatic vessels are very numerous in most forms of connective tissue, especially in the areolar tissiie beneath the skin and the mucous and serous surfaces. They are also found in abundance in the sheaths of tendons, as well as in the tendons themselves. Nerves are to be found in the white fibrous tissue, where they terminate in a special manner ; but it is doubtful whether any nerves terminate in areolar tissue ; at all events, they have not yet been demonstrated, and the tissue is possessed of very little seusibihty. . • , , i x_ Development of connective tissue. — Connective tissue is developed from cells of the mesoderm. These cells, at first rounded, become fusiform and branched, and ultimately form connective tissue corpuscles. A mucinous inter- cellular substance or matrix, partly derived from the cells themselves and partly from the lymph exuded by the neighbouring blood-vessels, gradually separates the cells. In the matrix the fibres are deposited, probably under the influence of the cells, but not by any transformation of the cell protoplasm. In the case, of yellow elastic fibres, rows of granules of elastin are first laid down ; these eventually fuse into the fully developed fibre. Cartilage Cartilage is a non-vascular structure which is found in various parts of the body—in adult life chiefly in the joints, in the parietes of the thorax, and in various tubes, such as the air-passages, nostrils, and ears, which require to be kept permanently open. In the foetus, at an early period, the greater part of the skeleton is cartilaginous. As this cartilage is afterwards replaced by bone, it is called lemporan/, in contradistinction to that which remains unossified during the whole of life and is called permanent. Cartilage is divided, according to its minute structure, into hyahne cartilage, white fibro-cartilage, and yellow or elastic fibro-cartilage. Besides these varieties met with in the adidt human sub- Eio. 27.—Human cartilage-cells from the cricoid cartilage, x 350. ject, there is a variety called cellular cartilage, which consists entirely, or almost entirely, of cells, united in some cases by a network of very fine fibres, in other cases apparently destitute of any intercellular sub- stance, the cells' being separated from each other by their capsules only, which in this variety of car- tilage are extremely well marked. Cellular cartilage is found in the external ears of rats, mice, and some other animals, and is present in the notochord of the human embryo, but is not found in any other human structure. The various cartilages in the body are also classified, according to their functions and positions, into articular, intcrarticular, costal, and membraniform. Hyaline cartilage, which may be taken as the type of this tissue, consists of a gristly mass of a firm consistence, but of considerable elasticity and peaily- bluish colour. Except where it coats the articular ends of bones, it is covered externally by a fibrous membrane, the perichondrium, from the vessels of which