314 OSTEOLOGY surfaces are rough for the attachment of ligaments, the former being the larger of the two. The external surface, convex and smooth, articulates with the trapezium. The internal surface is concave and smooth in front, for articulation with the os magnum ; rough behind, for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. Articulations.—The trapezoid articulates with four bones : the scaphoid above, second metacarpal below, trapezium externally, and os magnum internally. Os Magnum (fig. 370) The Os magnum (os capitatum) is the largest of the carpal bones, and occupies the centre of the wrist. It presents, above, a rounded portion or head, wliich is received into the concavity formed by the scaphoid and semi- lunar bones ; a constricted portion or neck ; and below this, the body. The superior surface is round, smooth, and articulates with the semilimar. The inferior surface is divided by two ridges into three facets, for articulation witli the second, tliird, and fourth metacarpal bones, that for the third (the middle facet) being the largest. The dorsal surface is broad and rough. The palmar surface is narrow, rounded, and rough, for the attachment of Ugaments and a part of the Adductor obliquus pollicis. The external surface articulates Fig. 370.—The left os magnum. For semilunar metacarpal with the trapezoid by a small facet at its anterior inferior angle, behind which is a rough depression for the attacliment of an interosseous ligament. Above tliis is a deep, rough groove, which forms part of the neck, and serves for tlie attachment of Ugaments ; it is bounded superiorly by a smooth, convex surface, for articulation with the scaphoid. The internal surface articiilates with the unciform by a smooth, concave, oblong facet, which occupies its posterior and superior parts ; it is rough in front, for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. .. Articulations.—The os magnum articulates with seven bones : the scaplioid and semilunar above ; the second, third, and fourth metacarpals below ; the trapezoid on the radial side ; and the unciform on the uhiar side. Unciform (fig. 371) The Unciform (os hamatum) mav be readily distinguished by its wedge- shaped form, and the hook-lilce process which projects from its paimar surface. It is situated at the inner and lower angle of the carpus, with its base downwards, restmg on the two inner metacarpal bones, and its apex clirectea upwards and outwards. The superior surface, the apex of t^ie wedge, is narrow, cSnvex, smooth, and articulates witli tlie semilunar. The interior surface articulates with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, by concave facets ^^•lucll are separated by an antero-posterior ridge. The dorsal surface is tnangulai and rough, for ligamentous attachment. Tlie qyalmar suriace presents, at its lower and inner side, a curved, hook-like process, the unciform process (lia»^ul»s), directed forwards and outwards. This process gives attachment, by its apex, to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist and tlie FIp^o^ c.aiiDi uhians b^ its inner surface to tlie Flexor brevis and Opponens minimi digiti; its outer