1107 THE TONGUE Muscles.—^The muscular fibres of the tongue run in various directions. These fibres are divided into two sets, extrinsic and intrinsic, which have aheady been described (pages 479 to 482). Vessels and Nerves.—The main artery of the tongue is the Ungual branch of the external carotid, but the facial and ascending pharyngeal also give branches to it. The veins open into the internal jugular. The lymphalics o f the tongue have been described on page 770. The nerves of the tongue are : (1) the lingual branch of the tliird division of the fifth, which is distributed to the papillas at the fore-part and sides of the tongue, and forms tlie nerve of ordinary sensibility for its anterior two-tliirds ; (2) the choi-da lympani branch of the facial nerve, which runs in the sheath of the lingual, and is generally regarded as the nerve of taste for the anterior two-tliirds ; tliis nerve is a continuation of the sensory root of the facial (pars intermedia of Wrisberg); (3) the lingual branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, which is distributed to the mucous membrane at the base and sides of the tongue, and to the papillae vallatae, and which supplies both sensory and gustatory filaments to this region; (4) the hypoglossal nerve, which is tlie motor nerve to the muscular substance of the tongue ; (5) the superior laryngeal, which sends some fine branches to the root near the epiglottis. Affiled Anatomy.—The diseases to which the tongue is liable are numerous, and any or all of the structures of which it is composed—muscles, connective tissue, mucous membrane, glands, vessels, nerves, and lymphatics—may be the seat of morbid cJianges. It IS not often the seat of congenital defects, tliough a few cases of vertical cleft have been recorded, and it is occasionally, though much more rarely than is commonly supposed, the seat of ' tongue tie,' fi-om sliortness of the frenulum. There is one condition which may be regarded as congenital, the so-called macroglossia, though sometimes it does not evidence itself until a year or two after birth. This is an enlargement of the tongue which is due primarily to a dilatation of the lympli-channels and a gi'eatly increased development of the lympliatic tissue throughout the oigan. This IS often aggravated by inflammatory changes induced by injm-y or exposure, and the tongue may assume enormous dimensions and hang out of the mouth, giving tlie child an imbecile expression. The treatment consists in excising a V-shaped portion and bringing the cut surfaces together with deeply placed sutm-es. Acute inflammation of the tongue, wliich may be caused by injury and the introduction ot some septic or irritating matter, is attended by gi-eat swelling from infiltration of Its connective tissue, which is in considerable quantity. This renders the patient incapable ot swallowing or speaking, and may seriously impede respu-ation. It may run on to suppuration, and the formation of an acute abscess. 4b 2