MYOLOGY 52G ischium, above the crus penis. Its base is directed towards tlie rectum, and connected to the central tendinous point of tlie perinajum. It is continuous witli tlie deep layer of the superficial fascia behind the Transversus perina?i muscle, and with a thin fascia which covers the under surface of the Levator ani muscle (anal fascia). This layer of the triangular ligament is perforated, about an inch below the symphysis pubis, by the urethra, the aperture for which is circular in form and about a quarter of an inch m diameter ; by the arteries to the bulb and the ducts of Cowper's glands close to the urethral orifice ; by the arteries to the corpora cavernosa—one on oitiier side close to the pubic arch and about halfway along the attached margin of the ligament; by the dorsal arteries and nerves of the penis near the apex of the ligament. Its base is also perforated by the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, while between its apex and the subpubic ligament the deep dorsal vein of the penis jjasses uj)wards into the pelvis. If the superficial or inferior layer of the triangular ligament be detached on either side, the following structures will be seen between it and the deep layer : the dorsal vein of the penis ; the membranous portion of the urethi-a, and the Compressor urethrse muscle ; Cowper's glands and their ducts ; the pudic vessels and dorsal nerves of the penis; the arteries and nerves of the bulb, and a plexus of veins. The deep or superior layer of the triangular ligament (fascia diaphragmatica urogenitalis superior) is continuous with the obturator fascia and stretches across the pubic arch. If the obturator fascia be traced inwards after lea^^Jlg the Obturator internus muscle, it wUl be found attached by some of its deeper or anterior fibres to the inner margin of the ischio-pubic ramus, whUe its superficial or posterior fibres pass over this attachment to form the superioi- layer of the triangular ligament. Behmd, this layer of the fascia is continuous with the inferior layer and with the fascia of CoUes, and in front it is continuous with the fascial sheath of the prostate gland. The Compressor urethrae (m. constrictor urethrse) surrounds the whole length of the membranous portion of the urethra, and is contained bet\veen the two layers of the triangular ligament. It arises by aponeurotic fibres from the junction of the rami of the pubis and ischium, to the extent of half or three-quarters of an inch : each segment of the muscle passes inwards, and divides into two fasciculi, which surround the urethra from the prostate gland behind to the bulbous portion of the urethra in front ; and unite, at the upper and lower surfaces of this tube, with the muscle of the opposite side, by means of a tendinous raphe. Nerve-supply.—The perineal branch of the internal pudic supphes this muscle. Actions.—The muscles of both sides act together as a sphincter, compressing the membranous portion of the urethra. During the transmission of fluids they like the Acceleratores urinse, are relaxed, and only come into action at the end ol the process to eject the last drops of the fluid. 2. B. Muscles of the Urogenital Region in the Female (fig. 516) Transversus perinaei. Erector clitoridis. Sphincter vaginae. Compressor urethra. The Transversus perinaei in the female is a narrow muscular slip, which passes more or less transversely across the back part of the perineal space It arises by a small tendon from the inner and fore part of the tuberositA of the ischium, and, passing inwards, is inserted into the central point of he perinajum, joining in this situation with the muscle of the opposite side, tbc External sphincter ani behind, and the Sphincter vagiiiJe in front Nerve-supply.-This muscle is supplied by the perineal branch of the mtcinal ^'"'Ac'tion.-The simultaneous contraction of the two muscles serves to fix the central tendinous point of the perbiieum. nrifiop of Tlie Snhincter vag-inae (m. bulbocavernosus) surrounds the ori ice m the vagina amMs homologous with the Accelerator urina. ,n the male. It covel^^the outer aspect of the vestibular bulbs, and is attached posteriorly