SACRAL NERVES 949 Sacral Nerves The posterior divisions of the sacral nerves (fig. 793) are small and diminish in size from above downwards ; tliey emerge, except the last, through the posterior sacral foramina. The upper three are covered at their points ot exit by the Multifidus spinaj, and divide into internal and external branches. The internal branches are small, and end in the Multifidus spina?. The external branches jom with one another and with the last lumbar and fourth sacral to form loops on the posterior surface of the sacrum. From these loops branches run to the posterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic hgament and form a second series of loops under the Gluteus maximus. From this second series cutaneous branches, two or three in number, pierce the Gluteus maximus along a line drawn from the posterior superior iliac spme to the tip of the coccyx; they^supply the skin over the posterior part of the buttock. The posterior divisions of the lower two sacral nerves are small and lie below the Multifidus spins. They do not divide into internal and external branches, but unite with each other and with the posterior division of the coccygeal nerve to form loops on the back of the sacrum ; filaments from these loops supply the skin over the coccyx. Coccygeal Nerve The posterior division of the coccygeal nerve does not divide into an internal and an external branch, but receives, as already stated, a communicating branch from the last sacral; it is lost in the skin over the back of the coccyx. ANTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES The anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves (rami anteriores) supply the antero-lateral parts of the trunk, and the limbs ; they are for the most part larger than the posterior divisions. In the thoracic region they run independently of one another, but in the cervical, lumbar, and sacral regions they unite near their origins to form plexuses. CERVICAL NERVES (NN. CERVICALES) The anterior primary divisions of the cervical nerves, with the exception of the first, pass outwards between the anterior and posterior Inter- transverse muscles, lying on the grooved upper surfaces of the transverse processes, and emerge between the muscles attached to the anterior and posterior tubercles of these. The anterior primary division of the first or sub- occipital nerve issues from the vertebral canal above the posterior arch of the atlas and runs forwards round the lateral aspect of its superior articular process, internal to the vertebral artery. In most cases it descends internal to and in front of the Rectus lateralis, but in some cases it pierces the muscle. The anterior primary divisions of the upper four cervical nerves unite to form the cervical plexus, and each receives a grey ramus communicans from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic cord. Those of the lower four cervical, together with tlie greater part of the first thoracic, form the brachial plexus. They each receive a grey ramus communicans, those for the fifth and sixth being derived from the middle, and those for the seventh and eighth from the lowest, cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Cervical Plexus (Plexus Cervicalis) The cervical plexus (fig. 794) is formed by the anterior primary divisions of the upper four cervical nerves; each nerve, except the first, divides into an upper and a lower branch, and the branches unite to form three loops. It is situated opposite the upper four cervical vertebrae, in front of the Levator anguli scapulre and Scalenus medius, and covered by the Sterno-mastoid. Its branches are divided into two groups, superficial and deep, and are here