SYNDESMOLOGY 406 of the Infraspinatus and the capsule : (3) a large bursa exists between the under surface of the Deltoid and the capsule, but does not communicate with the joint ; this bursa is prolonged under the acromion process and coraco-acromial ligament, and intervenes between these structures and the capsule of the joint: (4) a large bursa mucosa is situated on the summit of the acromion : (5) a bursa is frequently found between the coracoid process and the capsule of the joint: (6) there is a bursa beneath the Coraco-brachialis : (7) one lies between the Teres major and the long head of the Triceps : (8) one is placed in front of, and another behind, the tendon of the Latissimus dorsi. The Muscles in relation with the joint are, above, the Supraspinatus ; below, the long head of the Triceps ; in front, the Subscapularis ; behind, the Infra- spinatus and Teres minor ; within, the long tendon of the Biceps. The Deltoid is placed most externally, and covers the articulation on its outer side, as well as in front and behind. The Arteries supplying the joint are articular branches of the anterior and posterior circumflex, and suprascapular. The Nerves are derived from the circumflex and suprascapular. Movements.—The shoulder-joint is capable of every variety of movement, flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, circumduction, and rotation. The humerus is flexed (drawn forwards) by the PectoraUs major, anterior fibres of the Deltoid, Coraco-brachialis, and when the forearm is flexed, by the Biceps ; extended (drawn backwards) by the Latissimus dorsi. Teres major, posterior fibres of the Deltoid, and, when the forearm is extended, by the Triceps; it is abducted by the Deltoid and Supraspinatus ; it is adducted by the Subscapularis, Pectoralis major, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major, and by the weight of the Hmb ; it is rotated outwards by the Infraspinatus and Teres minor; and it is rotated inwards by the Subscapularis, Latissimus dorsi, Teres major, PectoraUs major, and the anterior fibres of the Deltoid. . , ^i. , j The most striking peculiarities in this joint are : L The large size of the head of the humerus in comparison mth the depth of the glenoid ca^aty, even when this latter is supplemented by the glenoid hgament. 2. The looseness of the capsule of the joint. 3. The intimate connection of the capsule with the nwscles attached to the head of the humerus. 4. The pecuhar relation of the Biceps tendon to the joint. j It is in consequence of the relative sizes of the two articular surfaces, and the looseness of the capsular hgament, that the joint enjoys such free movement in every possible direction. When these movements of the arm are arrested in the shoulder-joint by the contact of the bony surfaces, and by the tension of the corresponding fibres of the capsule, together with that of the muscles acting as accessory hgaments, the arm can be carried considerably farther by the movements of the scapfila, involving, of coui-se, motion at the acromio- and sterno-clavicular joints. These joints are therefore to be regarded as accessory structures to the shoulder-joint (see pp. 401 to 403). The extent of these movements of the scapula is very considerable especially in extreme elevation of the arm, which moyement is best accomphshed when the arm is thro^™ somewhat forwards and outwards because the margin of the head of the humerus is by no means a true "rcle ts greatest diameter is from the bicipital groove downwards wards, and the greatest elevation of the arm can be obtained by ro hng its articular urface in the direction of this measurement. The great ^vidth of tlie c^^itral portion of the humeral head also allows of very free horizontal -"^^^^ -J^^^^^^^^^^^ arm is raised to a right angle, in which movement the arch formed by the aciomion, ti'coracoid process, and the coraco-acromial hgament, constitutes a sort of supple- mental articular cavity for the head of the bone. The looseness of the capsule is so great that the am will ff about an inch from the scapula when the muscles are dissected from the ^^Z^^^^^^^ an opening made in it to counteract the atmospheric pressure. The mo^crac s nl tlS o ut therefore are'not regulated by the capsule so much as b> the ™Zg mtdtand by the pressure of the^itmosphere - a-nge^^ ' renders tlie movements of the ]oint much more e^isy t,^^^". f