1217 THE PROSTATE GLAND prostatic) ; by the deep layer of the triangular ligament, which invests the comraencement of the membranous portion of the urethra and prostate gland; and by the anterior portions of the Levatores ani muscles, which pass backwards from the pubis and embrace the sides of the prostate. These portions of the Levatores ani, from the support they afford to the prostate, are named the Levatores prostatce. The prostate gland is perforated by the urethra and the ejaculatory ducts. The urethra usually lies along tlie junction of its anterior with its middle third. The ejaculatory ducts pass obUquely downwards and forwards through the posterior part of the prostate, and open into the prostatic portion of the urethra. structure.—The ijrostate is immediately enveloped by a thin but fii'm fibrous capsule, distinct from that derived from the fascia endopelvina, and separated from it by a plexus of veins. This capsule is firmly adherent to the prostate and is structurally continuous with the stroma of the gland, being composed of the same tissues, viz. non-striped muscle and fibrous tissue. The substance of the prostate is of a pale reddish-grey colour, of great density, and not easily torn. It consists of glandular substance and muscular tissue. The muscular tissue, according to KolUker, constitutes the proper stroma of the prostate ; the connective tissue being very scanty, and sunply forming, between the muscular fibres! thin trabeculce, in which the vessels and nerves of the gland ramify. The muscular tissue is arranged as follows : immediately beneath the fibrous capsule is a dense layer, which forms an investing sheath for the gland ; secondly, around the lu-ethra, as it hes in the prostate, is another dense layer of ckcular fibres, continuous above with the internal layer of the muscular coat of the bladder, and below blending mth the fibres surrounding the membranous portion of the urethra. Between these two layers strong bands of muscular tissue, which decussate freely, form meshes in which the glandular structure of the organ is imbedded. In that part of the gland which is situated in front of the urethra the muscular tissue IS especially dense, and there is here httle or no gland tissue ; while in that part which IS behind the uretlira the muscular tissue presents a wide-meshed structui-e, which is densest at the base of the gland—that is, near the bladder—becoming looser and more sponge-like towards the apex of the organ. The glandular substance is composed of numerous folhcular pouches, opening into elongated canals, which join to form from twelve to twenty small excretory ducts The tollicles are connected together by areolar tis.sue, supported by prolongations from the fibrous capsule and muscular stroma, and enclosed in a deficate capillary plexus. The epithelium vvhich lines the canals and the terminal vesicles is of the columnar variety. The prostatic ducts open into the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra, and are fined by two layers ot epithelumi, the inner layer consisting of columnar and the outer of small cubical cells Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the prostate are derived from the internal pudic, vesical, and haBmorrboidal. Its veins form a plexus around the sides and base of the gland ; they receive m front the dorsal vein of the penis, and terminate m the internal Uiac veins. The nerves are derived from the pelvic plexus. Applied Anatomy.—Ry means of the finger introduced mto the rectum, the sur<.eon detects enlargement or other disease of the prostate; he can feel the apex of the gfand, which IS the guide to Cock's operation for strictm-e; he is enabled also by the same melns to cuiect the point of a catheter, when its introduction is attended \vith difficulty either from 'u^l^A T\ i 1 membranous or prostatic portions of the urethra. When the finger IS mtioduced into the bowel, the sm-geon may, in some cases, especially in boys, learn the remo'vTl' 7 '''''' '^^'T' °^ ^ i° '^'^ ladder; and in the operation for its orrtn^l IS not infrequently the case, it should be lodged behhid an enlarged bLcl le f nn? displaced from its position by pressing upwards the base of the Sue to e th- Jnnn":, • ^^1'"'" ^t"^' Occasionally the seat of suppiuution, due to either gonorrhoja or tuberculous disease. The gland is enveloned in a dense trS^rl'',"'"' ^'^^r'T ' and also explah" freauontlv Cf ? It ^'""'tu* ^he acute form of the disease. The abscess most maTSrst iZ t,? '^"'T""" ''^'''^ ^^'^"^ '^^st resistance, but may burst into the rectum, or more rarely in the perinmum. In advanced life the Z fo LT.ZZ" becomes considerably enlarged and projects into trX der o at GreemWoh Sl^TT^> °^ According to Messer's researches, conducted at (, teenwioh Hospital, it would seem that such obstruction exists in 20 per cent lite iuoberwhi^f ^ f ^V'^r '^''^ «°'^dition aftects principally the venlnce ik oK """^ undergo considerable enlargement without causing much incon- Sl eniarient of tir! f r""^"^ seem that the middle lobe enlarges most, and even a sma 1 enlaigement of this lobe may act injuriously, by forming a sSrt of valve over the thf mot°cSpl^ --^-^ ^l^'' the ;atnt I'ait Svn.ementT KnTf block the opening into the urethra. In con.sequence of the emaif,ement ot the pi estate, a pouch is formed at the base of the bladder behind the nroiec tion, m which ui-ine collects, and cannot be entirely expelled. It becomt dSomposed