3U4 OSTEOLOGY is a depression for part of the origin of the Flexor profundus digitorum ; descending from the eminence is a ridge wliich gives origin to one head of the Pronator teres. Frequently, the Flexor longus pollicis arises from the lower part of the coronoid process by a rounded bundle of muscular fibres. The greater sigmoid cavity (incisura semilunaris) is a semilunar depres- sion of largo size, formed by the olecranon and coronoid processes, and serving for articulation with the trochlear surface of the humerus. About the middle of either lateral border of this cavity is a notch, which contracts it somewhat, and indicates the junction of the two processes of which it is formed. The cavity is concave from above downwards, and divided into an inner and an outer portion by a smooth ridge running from the summit of the olecranon to the tip of the coronoid process. The inner portion is the larger, and is slightly concave transversely ; the outer is convex above, slightly concave ^^^The lesser sigmoid cavity (incisura radialis) is a narrow, oblong, arti- cular depression on the outer side of the coronoid process, which receives the lateral articular surface of the head of the radius. It is concave from before back\vards, and its prominent extremities serve for the attachment ot the orbicular ligament. . . • r j j The shaft (corpus ulnse), at its upper part, is prismatic m form, and curved from behind forwards and from without inwards, so as to be convex behind and externally; its central part is quite straight; its lower part is rounded, smooth, and bent a Httle outwards. It tapers gradually from above do«n- wards. and has three borders and three surfaces. The anterior border (margo volaris) begins above at the prominent inner angle of the coronoid process, and ends below in front of the styloid process. Its upper part, well defined, and its middle portion, smooth and rounded, give origin to the Flexor profundus digitorum; its lower fourth marked off from the rest of the border by the commencement of an obhque ridge on the anterior surface, serves for the origin of the Pronator quadratus. This border separates the anterior from the internal surface. The vosterior border (margo dorsalis) begins above at the apex of the tri- angular subcutaneous surface at the back part of the olecranon, and ends be low atfhe back of the styloid process ; it is well marked in the upper three-fourtbs^ and gives attachment to an aponeurosis which affords a common origin to the Mexor carpi alnaris, the Extensor carpi uhiaris, and the Flexor profundus dilitorum f its lower fourth is smooth and rounded. This border separates the internal from the posterior surface. . . , The "iernni or inUmsxom border (crista interossea) begms above by the union oUwo lines, whieh converge from tl>e extremities ot the lesser sigmoid and enclose between them a triangular space or f'S"'° Rnninator brevis ; it ends below at the head of the ihia. It» t.^vo middle foSs ie very prominent, its lower fourth is smooth and romided This Wer £ves attoc[°ment to the interosseous membrane, and separates the '^^!^£rs:^is:s^^^. ^'-t tt^ierpSs,:: broil' a'nd concave'above ; convex ami -mewh^^ - .'^IJ;^;'^^^^^ i^l^iXaStitSplrStwidTa';*^^^