OSTEOLOGY 216 the crista occipitalis mterna ; it bifurcates near tlie foramen maenuni and gives attachment to the falx cerebelh ; in tlie attaclied margin of thk falx is the occipital sinus, wliich is sometimes duplicated. Transverse hooves one on either side extend outwards from tiie internal occipital protuberance to the lateral angles of tlie bone ; these grooves accommodate the lateral sinuses and their prominent margins give attachment to the tentorium cerebeUi Tlu' groove on the right side is usually larger than that on the left and is continuous with that for the superior longitudinal sinus. Exceptions to this concbtion are, however, not infrequent; the left may be larger than the right or the two may be almost equal m size. The angle of union of the superior longitudinal and lateral sinuses is named the iorcular Herophili * and its position IS indicated by a depression situated on one or other side of Hip protuberance. The lateral or condylic portions (partes laterales) are situated at the sides ot the foramen magnum ; on their under surfaces are the condyles for articula- tion With the superior facets of the atlas. The condyles are oval or reniform in shape, and their anterior extremities, directed forwards and inwards are closer together than their posterior, and encroach on the basilar portion of the bone. Iheir surfaces are convex from before backwards and from side to side, and look downwards and outwards. To theii- margins are attached the capsular hgaments of the occipito-atlantal articulations, and on the inner side of each is a rough impression or tubercle for the lateral odontoid hgament At the base of each condyle the bone is tunnelled by a short canal the anterior condyloid foramen (canalis hypoglossi). This commences on the cranial surface of the bone immediately above the foramen magnum, and is directed outwards and forwards above the condyle. It may be partially or completely chvided into two by a spicule of bone; it gives exit to the "hypoglossal or twelfth cranial nerve, and entrance to a meningeal branch of the ascending piiaryngeal artery. Behind each condyle is a fossa {fossa condyloidea) which receives the posterior margm of the superior facet of the atlas when the head is bent backwards ; the floor of this fossa is sometimes perforated by a foramen the posterior condyloid foramen, through which an emissary vein passes from the lateral sinus. Extending outwards from the posterior half of the condyle IS a quadrilateral plate of bone, the processus jugularis. This process is excavated in front by a deep notch (incisura jugularis), which, in the articulated skuU, forms the posterior part of the jugular foramen; this notch may be divided into two by a bony spicule, the processus intra jugularis, which. projects out^\■ards above the anterior condyloid foramen. The under surface of the processus jugularis is rough, and gives attachment to the Rectus capitis lateralis muscle and the lateral occipito-atlantal ligament; from this surface an eminence, the paramastoid process, sometimes projects do-miwards, and may be of sufl&cient length to reach, and articulate with, the transverse process of the atlas. Externally the processus jugularis presents a rough quadrilateral or triangular area which is joined to the jugular surface of the temporal bone by a plate of cartilage; after the age of twenty-five this plate tends to become ossified. The upper surface of the lateral part presents an oval eminence, the tuberculum jugulare, which overlies the canahs hypoglossi and is sometimes crossed by an oblique groove for the ninth, tenth, and eleventh cranial nerves. On the upper surface of the processus jugularis is a deep groove which curves inAvards and forwards and is continuous with the notch on the anterior surface. This groove lodges the terminal part of the lateral sinus, and opening into it, close to its inner margin, is the orifice of the posterior condyloid foramen. The basilar process (pars basilaris) extends forwards" and upwards from the foramen magnum, and presents in front an area more or less quadrilateral in outline. In the young skull this area is rough and uneven, and is joined to the body of the sphenoid by a plate of cartilage. By the twenty-fifth year this cartilaginous plate is ossified, and the occipital" and sphenoid must be severed by a saw. On its loiver surface, about half an inch in front of the foramen magnum, * The columns of blood coming in different directions were supposed to be pressed together at this point (toroular, a wine-press).