270 OSTEOLOGY state, is filled up by tlie septal cartilage. On the lateral wall of each nasal fossa the anterior part of the inferior turbinated bone is visible. Bolow and external to the anterior nasal aperture are tlie facial surfaces of the maxillse, each perforated, near the lower margin of the orbit, by the infra-orbital foramen for the passage of the infra-orbital nei've and vessels. Below and internal to this foramen is the canine eminence separating the incisive from the canine fossa. Beneath these fossae are the alveolar processes of the maxillte contaming the upper teeth, which overlap the teeth of the mandible in front. The malar bone on either side forms the prominence of the cheek, the lower and outer portion of the orbital cavity, and the anterior part of the zygomatic arch. It articulates internally with the maxiUa, beliind with the zygomatic process of the temporal, and above with the greater wing of the sphenoid and the external angular process of the frontal ; it is perforated by the malar foramen for the passage of the malar bi-anch of the temporo-malar nerve. On the body of the mandible is a median ridge, indicating the position of the symphysis ; this ridge divides below to enclose the mental protuberance, the lateral angles of which constitute the mental tubercles. Below the incisor teeth is the incisive fossa, and beneath the second bicuspid tooth the mental foramen which transmits the mental nerve and vessels. Passing upwards from the mental tubercle is the external oblique line, which is continuous behind with the anterior border of the ramus. The posterior border of the ramus rims downwards and forwards from the condyle to the angle, which is frequently more or less everted. The orbits (fig. 341) are two quadrilateral pyramidal cavities, situated at the upper and anterior part of the face, their bases being directed forwards and outwards, and their apices backwards and inwards, so that then- long axes, if continued backwards, would meet over the body of the sphenoid bone. Each presents for examination a roof, a floor, an inner and an outer wall, a base, and an apex. The roof is concave, directed downwards, and slightly forwards, and formed in front by the orbital plate of the frontal; behind by the lesser wing of the sphenoid. It presents internally the depression for the attacliment of the cartilaginous puUey of the Superior obUque ; externally, the lachrymal fossa for the lachrymal gland ; and posteriorly, the suture between the frontal and the lesser wng of the sphenoid. Tlie floor is directed upwards and outwards, and is of less extent than the roof ; it is formed cliiefly by the orbital surface of the maxilla ; in front, and externally, to a small extent, by the orbital process of the malar, and behind and internally, by the orbital process of the palate. At its inner angle is the upper opening of the naso-lachrymal canal, immediately to the outer side of which is a depression for the origin of the Inferior oblique muscle of the eyeball. On its outer part is the suture between the maxilla and malar, and at its posterior part that between the maxilla and the orbital process of the palate. Running forwards near the middle of the floor is the infra-orbital groove, terminating in front in the infra-orbital canal and transmitting the infra- orbital nerve and vessels. The inner wall is nearly vertical, and is formed from before backwards by the frontal process of the maxilla, the lachrymal, the os planum of the ethmoid, and a small part of the body of the sphenoid in front of the optic foramen. Sometimes the sphenoidal turbinated bone appears in this wall (see footnote, page 236). It exhibits three vertical sutures—viz. : one between the frontal process of the maxilla and the lachrymal, another between the lachrymal and ethmoid, and a third between tlie ethmoid and sphenoid. In front is seen the lachrymal groove, which lodges the lachrymal sac, and behind the groove is the lachrymal crest, from which the Tensor tarsi arises. At the junction of the inner wall and the roof is the suture which joins the frontal bone to the frontal process of the maxilla, the lachrjanal, and the ethmoid. The point of junction between the anterior border of the lachrymal and the frontal is named the dacryon. In the suture bet\\een the frontal and the os planum of the ethmoid are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramma, the former transmitting tlie nasal nerve and anterior ethmoidal vessels, the latter the posterior ethmoidal vessels. The outer wall, directed inwards and forwards, is formed by tlie orbital process of the malar and the orbital surface of the greater wmg of the splienoid;