1010 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE antrum, the frontal sinus and the anterior etlimoidal air-cells, the two latter via the infuncUbulum; and the posterior group, opening into the superior meatus and spheno- ethmoidal recess and draining the posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal air-cells. Suppura- tion in the anterior group is the more common, and the pus can be seen running down over the anterior end of the inferior turbinated, whereas in the case of the posterior group, the pus does not come forwards, but runs back into the naso-pharynx over the posterior end of the middle turbinated process. Again, it is of importance to notice that the middle meatus is of such a form that pus running down the infundibulum from the frontal sinus is directed by the groove beneath the bulla ethmoidalis straight into the ostium of the maxillary antram. So that the latter sinus may, in some cases, act as a secondary reservoir for pus discharged from the frontal sinus. All the accessory sinuses can be and are infected from the nasal fossa, but it should be noted that in the case of one sinus, viz. the maxillary antrum, the infection is frequently conveyed in another way, and that is from the teeth. This sinus is the one most frequently the seat of chronic suppuration and it often requires drainage. This drainage can be carried out by drilling a hole through the alveolus after removal of a tooth, preferably the first molar, or by gouging away the facial aspect of the maxilla, after having reflested the gum by mcision of the mucous membrane, or by remo\ang bone from the outer wall of the inferior meatus of the nose. Simple drainage, however, is not usually sufficient, and more extensive operations have often to be performed. THE EYE The eyeball (bulbus oculi) is contamed in the cavity of the orbit. In this situation it is protected from injury, while its position is such as to ensure an extensive range of sight; it is additionally protected m front by several appendages, such as the eyebrow, eyehds, &c. Fig. 831.—The right eye in sagittal section, showing the capsule of Tenon (semi-diagrammatic). (Testut.) Optic nerve Capmle of Tenon '—Upper tarsal plate Lower tarsal jilate The eyeball is imbedded in the fat of the orbit, but is «»^™";;^ded b>^'V^;^'^ membranous sac, the capsule of Tenon, which isolates it, so as to allo^^ of free "^S^capsule of Tenon (fascia, bulbi) (fig. 831) envelops the eyeball from the optic nerve to the ciliary region, separari g