MYOLOGY 594 positions of the limb, as a sharp cord, while the Semimembranosus is thick. The OraciUn is situated a little in front of them. The Tibialis anlicus presents a fusiform enlargement at the outer side of the tibia, and projoets beyond the crest of the shin bone. From the muscular mass, its tendon may be traced downward, standing out boldly, when tlie muscle is in action, on the front of the tibia and ankle-joint, and coursing down along the inner border of the foot to its insertion. The fleshy libres of the Peroneus longus are strongly marked at the upper part of the outer side of the leg, especiaUy when the muscle is in action. It forms a bold swelling, separated by furrows from the Extensor longus digitorum in front and the Soleus behind. Below, the fleshy fibres terminate abruptly in a tendon which overlaps the more flattened form of the Peroneus brevis. Below the external malleolus the tendon of the Peroneus brovis is more marked than that of the Peroneus longus. On the dorsum of the foot the tendons emerging from beneath the anterior annular ligament spread out, and can be distinguished, as follows : the innermost and largest is the Tibialis anticus; the next is the Extensor proprius hallucis ; then the Extensor longus digitorum, dividing into four tendons to the four outer toes ; and lastly, the Peroneus tertius. The flattened form of the dorsum of the foot is relieved by the rounded outline of the fleshy belly of the Extensor brevis digitorum, which produces a fulness on the outer side of the tarsus in front of the external malleolus, and by the Dorsal interossei, which bulge between the metatarsal bones. At the back of the knee is the popliteal space, bounded above by the tendons of the Hauistnng muscles ; below, by the two heads of the Gastrocnemius. Below this space is the promi- nent fleshy mass of the calf of the leg, produced by the Gastrocnemius and Soleus. When these muscles are in action, as in standing on tiptoe, the borders of the Gastrocnemius are well defined, presenting two curved lines, which converge to the tendon of mscrtion. Ut these borders, the inner is more prominent than the outer. The fleshy mass of the call terminates somewhat abniptly below in the tendo Achillis. which stands out prominently on the lower part of the back of the leg. It presents a somewhat tapering form m the upper three-fourths of its extent, but widens out slightly below. When the mu.scles ot tlie calf are in action, the lateral portions of the Soleus may be seen, forming curved cniinences, of which the outer is the longer, on either side of the Giustrocnemuis. Behind the inner border of the lower part of the shaft of the tibia, a well-marked ridge, produced by the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, is visible when this muscle is ni a state ot contraction. , . ., c c tko On the sole of the foot the superficial layer of muscles inHucnces surfacx* form, ine Abductor minimi dic/iti forms a narrow rounded cle\ ation along the outer border ot tiie foot, while the Abductor hallucis does tlie same, though to a less extent, on the inner siae The Flexor brevis digitorum, bound down by the plantar fa-scia, is not \ ery apparent; n produces a flattened form, and is covered by the thickened skin of the sole, which is htrc tlnown into numerous wrinkles.