532 MYOLOGY By its posterior surface, with the ribs, Intercostal muscles, Serratus magnus, the axillary space, and the axillary vessels and brachial plexus of nerves. Its upper border is separated from the clavicle by a narrow triangular interval which is occupied by the costo-coracoid membrane, behind which are the axillary vessels and nerves. Running parallel to the Imuer border of the muscle is the long thoracic artery, and piercing the muscle is the internal anterior thoracic nerve. The Subclavius is a small triangular muscle, placed in the interval between the clavicle and the first rib. It arises by a short, thick tendon from the first rib and its cartilage at their junction, in front of the rhomboid ligament; the fleshy fibres proceed obliquely upwards and outwards, to be inserted into the groove on the under surface of the clavicle Spine of between the rhomboid and conoid liga- scapitla ments. Fig. 519.—Serratus magnus. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.) Relations.—Its deep swr/ace is separated from the first rib by the subclavian vessels and brachial plexus of nerves. Its anterior surface is sepa- rated from the PectoraUs major by the costo- coracoid membrane, which, with the clavicle, forms an osseo-fibrous sheath in which the muscle is enclosed. Nerves.—The PectoraUs major is supplied by the external and internal anterior thoracic nerves; through these nerves the muscle receives filaments from all the spinal nerves entering into the formation of the brachial plexus; the PectoraUs minor receives its fibres from the eighth cer^acal and first thoracic nerves through the internal anterior thoracic nerve. The Subclavius is suppUed by a filament derived from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. Actions.—If the arm has been raised by the Deltoid, the PectoraUs major will, con- jointly with the Latissimus dorsi and Teres major, depress it to the side of the chest. If acting alone, it adducts and draws for- wards the arm, bringing it across the front of the chest, and at the same time rotates it inwards. The PectoraUs minor depresses the point of the shoulder, drawing the scapula downwards and inwards to the thorax, and throwing the inferior angle backwards. The Subclavius depresses the shoulder, drawing the clavicle downwards and forwards. When the arms are fixed, all three muscles act upon the ribs, drawing them upwards and expanding the chest, and thus becoming very important agents in forced inspiration. During an attack of asthma patients always assume an attitude which fixes the shoulders, so that all these muscles may be brought into action to assist in dilatmg the cavity of the chest. Ext. ohlique Eighth rib 2. Lateral Thoracic Region Serratus magnus. The Serratus magnus (m. serratus anterior) (fig. 519) is a thin, irregularly quadrilateral muscle, situated between the ribs and the scapula at tlic upper and lateral part of the cliest. It arises by fleshy digitations from tlie outer