EXTERNAL PLAOTAE, ARTERY 725 accompany the digital branches of the internal plantar nerve and join the plantar distal arteries of the three inner spaces. °The external plantar (a. plantaris lateralis), much larger than the internal, passes obUquely outwards and forwards to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. It then timis inwards to the interval between the bases of the first and second metatarsal bones, where it anastomoses with the communicating branch from the dorsalis pedis artery, thus completing the plantar arch. As this artery passes outwards, it is first placed between the os calcis and Abductor hallucis. Fig. 623.—The plantar arteries. FiQ. 624.—The plantar arteries. Superficial view. Deep view. and then between the Flexor brevis digitorum and Flexor accessorius ; as it passes forwards to the base of the little toe, it hes more superficially between the Flexor brevis digitorum and Abductor minimi digiti, covered by the deep fascia and integument. The remaining portion of the vessel is deeply situated ; It extends from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe to the back part of the first interosseoiis space, and forms the plantar arch ; it is convex forwards, lies below the tarsal ends of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones and the corresponding Interosseous muscles, and upon the Adductor obliquus hallucis. Surface Harking.—The course of the internal plantar artei-y is represented by a line drawn from the mid-point between the tip of the internal malleolus and the centre of the convexity of the heel to the middle of the under surface of the great toe; the external plantar by a line from the same point to within a finger's breadth of the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone. The plantar arch is indicated by a line drawn from this point J-e. a finger's breadth internal to the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone, transversely across the foot to the back of the first interosseous space. Applied Anatomy.—Wounds of the plantar arch are always serious, on account of the depth of the vessel and the important structures which must be interfered with in an attempt to hgature it. They must be treated on similar lines to those of wounds of the palmar arches (see page 682). Pi-essure locally, combined with elevation of the hmb, may m some cases be suflacient to arrest the bleeding, but this faihng an attempt should be made to find the bleecUng point and hgature it. Should this prove unsuccessful, it may e necessary to ligature the superficial femoral, as ligature of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries may not be sufficient to control the haemorrhage, and it is safer and quicker to tie the femoral under the circumstances.