1193 THE URETERS consists of conical or oval cells varying in number in different parts, and presentmg processes which extend down into the basement-membrane. Beneath the epithelium, and separating it from the muscular coats, is a dense layer of fibrous tissue contaimng many elastic fibres. i.- • j. i -r The arteries supplying the ureter are branches from the renal, spermatic, internal lUac, and inferior vesical. , The nerves are derived from the inferior mesenteric, spermatic, and pelvic plexuses. Applied ^wotojuy.—Rupture of the ureter is not a common accident, but occasionally occm-s. If it be torn completely across, the uiine collects in the retro-peritoneal tissues; if it be not completely di^^ded, the lumen of the tube may become strictured and hydronephrosis or pyonephrosis result. The ureter may be accidentally wounded in some pelvic operations, such as removal of the uterus ; if this should happen the divided ends must be sutured totrether, or failing to accomplish this an attempt may be made to implant the upper end into the bladder or rectum. If this cannot be carried out the only alternative is to remove the kidney immediately. Stones not uncommonly become impacted in the ureter. These may occur- at any part, but most commonly either at the point where the tube is crossing the pelvic brim or at the termination, where it is passing obliquely tlii-ough the muscular wall of the bladder. In the former case, an incision with its centre opposite, and one inch internal to, the anterior superior spine of the iliiun dividing all the structures down to tlie peritoneum, enables the operator to reach the lu-eter by pushing the unopened peritoneum inwards ; the stone can then be felt in the lu-eter, the wall of which is incised, and the stone extracted, free di'ainage being provided for the escaping urine. ^Vhen the stone is impacted at the vesical end of the tube a preluninary incision into the bladder is required, and by scratching through the mucous membrane overlying it the calculus can be removed. The Bladder (fig. 992) The bladder (vesica urinaria) is a musculo-membranous sac which acts as a reservoir for the urine ; and as its size, position, and relations vary according Fig. 992.—Median sagittal section of male pelvis. to the amount of fluid it contains, it is necessary to study it as it appears (a) when empty, and {h) when distended. In both conditions the position of