1041 THE EAR The inner wall (paries labyrinthica) (fig. 858) is vertical in direction, and looks directly outwards. It presents for examination the following parts : Fenestra ovalis. Promontorium. . Fenestra rotunda. Prominentia canalis facialis. The fenestra ovalis (fenestra vestibuli) is a reniform opening leading from the tympanum into tlie vestibule of the internal ear ; its long diameter is directed horizontally, and its convex border is upwards. In the recent state it is occupied by the base of the stapes, the circumference of M'liich is fixed by the annular ligament to the margin of the foramen. The fenestra rotunda (fenestra cochleae) is situated below and a little behind the fenestra ovalis, from which it is separated by a rounded elevation, the promontorium. It is placed at the bottom of a funnel-shaped depression and, in the macerated bone, leads into the cochlea of the internal ear ; it is closed in the recent state by a membrane (memhrana iympani secundaria) which is concave towards the tympanum, convex towards the cochlea. This membrane consists of three layers : an external, or mucous, derived from the mucous lining of the tymjaanum ; an internal from the lining membrane of the cochlea ; and an intermediate, or fibrous layer. The promontorium is a rounded hollow prominence, formed by the projection outwards of the first turn of the coclilea ; it is placed between the fenestrse, and is furrowed on its surface by three small grooves,- wliich lodge branches of the tympanic plexus. A minute spicule of bone frequently connects the promontorium to the pyramid. The prominentia canalis facialis indicates the position of the bony canal (aquaeductus Fallopii), in which the facial nerve is contained; this canal traverses the inner wall of the tympanum above the fenestra ovalis, and behind that opening curves nearly vertically downwards along the posterior wall. The posterior wall (paries mastoidea) is \nder above than below, and j)resents for examination the Opening of the antrum. Pyramid. Fossa incudis. The opening of the antrum is a large irregular aperture, vc\\ic\\ extends backwards from the epitympanic recess and leads into a considerable air space; the mastoid antrum (antrum tympanicum) (see page 226). The antrum communicates with large irregular cavities contained in the interior of the mastoid process, the mastoid air-cells (cellulse mastoidese). These cavities vary considerably in number, size, and form; they are lined by mucous membrane, contmuous with that lining the cavity of the tympanum. On the inner wall of the opening into the antrum is a rounded eminence, situated above and behind the eminence of the aquaeductus Fallopii; it corresponds Mith the position of the ampullated extremities of the superior and external semicircular canals. _ The pyramid (eminentia pyramidalis) is a conical eminence, situated immediately behind the fenestra ovalis, and in front of the vertical portion of the Fallopian aqueduct; it is hollow in the interior, and contains the Stapedius muscle ; its summit projects forM'ards towards the fenestra ovalis, and presents a small aperture whicli transmits the tendon of the muscle. The cavity in tlie pyramid is prolonged downwards and backwards in front of the aquaeductus Fallopii, and communicates with it by a minute canal winch transmits a twis from the facial nerve to the Stapedius muscle. The fossa incudis is a small depression which is situated in the lower and back part of the epitympanic recess, and lodges the short process of the incus. Ihe anterior wall (paries carotica) is ^^^der above than beloAv; it corres- ponds with tlie carotid canal, from which it is separated by a thin plate of bone perforated by the tympanic branch of the internal carotid artery, and by a communicating branch which connects the sympathetic plexus on the internal carotid artery with the tympanic plexus on the promontory. At the upper part of the anterior wall are the orifice of the canal for the Tensor tympani and tlie orifice of the Eustachian tube, separated from each other by a tliin Horizontal plate of bone, the processus cochlear if or mis (septum canalis musculo- tubarn). These canals run from the tympanum for\N'ards, inwards, and a little downwards, to the retiring angle between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone. 3 X