COMMON ILIAC AETERIES 697 Surface 3Iarking.—Draw a line between the highest points of the iliac crests : this is usually half an inch below the umbilicus; in this line take a point half an inch to the left of the middle line. From this draw two lines to points midway between the anterior superior iliac spines and the symphysis jnibis. These two diverging lines \yill represent the course of the common and external iliac arteries. Draw a second line corresponding to the level of the anterior superior spines of the ilium : the portion of the diverging lines bet^veen these two levels on either side will represent the course of the common iliac artery ; the portion below the lower zone, that of the external iliac artery. Applied Anatomy.—The application of a ligature to the common iliac artery may be required on account of aneurysm or hfemorrliage, implicating the external or internal iliacs. The easiest and best method of t}ing the artery is by a transperitoneal route. Tlie abdomen is opened, the intestines are dra^^^l' to one side and the peritoneum Fig. 608.—^Arteries of the pelvis. covering the artery divided ; the sheath is then opened and the needle passed from within outwards. On the right side great care must be exercised in ^oassing the needle, since both the common iliac veins lie behind the artery. After the vessel has been tied, the incision in the peritoneum over the artery should be sutured. Formerly there were two different methods by which the common iliac artery was tied, -nathout opening the peritoneal cavitj': (1) an anterior or iliac incision, by which the vessel was approached more directly from the front; and (2) a posterior abdominal or lumbar incision, by which the vessel was reached from behind. Collateral Circulation.—The principal agents in carrying on the collateral circulation after the application of a ligature to the common iliac are : the anastomoses of the hemor- rhoidal branches of the internal iliac with the superior hfemoiThoidal from the inferior mesenteric ; of the uterine, ovarian, and vesical arteries of the opposite sides ; of the I