1046 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE tympani nerve and tlie Tensor tympani muscle. These folds separate off pouch-like cavities, and give the interior of the tympanum a somewhat lioney- comb appearance. One of these pouclies is weU marked, viz. the pouch of Prussak, \v hich lies between the neck of the malleus and tlie membrana flaccida. Two other folds may be mentioned : they are formed by the mucous membrane which envelops the chorda tymiiani nerve and are situated, one in front of, and the other behind the liandle of the malleus ; they are named the anterior and posterior recesses of Trvltsch. In the tympanum this membrane is pale, tliin, slightly vascular and covered for the most part with columnar ciliated epithehum, but over the pyramid, ossicula, and membrana tympani it possesses a flattened non-ciliated epithelium. In the antrum and mastoid cells its epithelium is also non-ciliated. In the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube the membrane is thin ; but in the cartilaginous portion it is very thick, highly vascular, and provided with numerous mucous glands ; the epithelium which lines the tube is columnar and ciliated. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries are six in number. Two of them are larger than the rest, viz. the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, which suppUes the membrana tympani; and the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular, which supplies the back part of the tympanum and mastoid cells. The smaller arteries are—the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal, which enters through the hiatus Fallopii; a branch from the ascending pharjmgeal and another from the Vidian, which accompany the Eustachian tube ; and the tympanic branch from the internal carotid, given off in the carotid canal and perforating the thin anterior wall of the tympanum. The veins terminate in the pterygoid plexus, the superior petrosal sinus, and the middle meningeal vein. The nerves constitute the tympanic plexus, which ramifies upon the surface of the promontory. The plexus is formed by (1) the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal; (2) the smaU deep petrosal nerve ; (3) the small superficial petrosal nerve ; and (4) a branch which joms the great superficial petrosal. The tympanic branch of the glosso-'pharyngeal (Jacobson's nerve) enters the tympanic cavity by an aperture in its floor close to the inner wall, and divides into branches which ramify o"n the promontory and enter iato the formation of the plexus. The small deep petrosal nerve from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic passes through the waU of the carotid canal, and joins the branches of Jacobson's nerve. The branch to the great super- ficial petrosal passes through an opening on the inner wall, in front of the fenestra ovaUs. The sinall superficial petrosal nerve, from the otic gangUon, passes backwards through a foramen in the middle fossa of the base of the skuU (sometimes the foramen ovale), and enters the anterior surface of the petrous bone through a small aperture, situated external to the hiatus Fallopii; it courses downwards through the bone, past the geniculate ganghon of the facial nerve, receiving a connecting filament from it, and entei-s the tympanic cavity, where it communicates with Jacobson's nerve, and assists in forming the tympanic plexus. The branches of distribution of the tympanic plexus are supphed to the mucous membrane of the tympanic cavity ; a branch passes to the fenestra ovalis, another to the fenestra rotunda, and a thhd to the Eustachian tube. The small superficial petrosal may be looked upon as the contmuation of the nerve of Jacobson through the plexus to the otic ganglion. " , • i t\,^ In addition to the tympanic plexus there are the nerves supplymg the muscles, ilie Tensor tympani is supplied by a branch from the thhd division of the fifth through the otic ganglion, and the Stapedius by the tympanic branch of the facial. The chorda tympani nerve crosses the tympanic cavity. It is given off from the sensory part of the facial, about a quarter of an inch before the nerve emerges from the stylo- mastoid foramen. It runs from below upwards and forwards m a canal, and entere the tympanic cavity through the iter chordw posterius, aheady described (page 1040), and becomes invested mth mucous membrane. It traverses the tympanic cavity, crossmg mternal to the membrana tympani and over the upper part of the handle of the malleus to the anterior wall, where it emerges through the iter chordm anlertus or canal of Hvgmer. Applied AnatoMT/.-The tympanic cavity is very frequently the seat of disease botu suppurative and non-suppurative, and m practically every case the inflammation spreads upwards from the nose or throat along the Eustachian tube. The anatomy of the tympanic cavity is of the very greatest practical importance as regards its relatioiis t^o ore? parts. Its roof is forn/ed by a thin plate of bone which. -^tV^fo^'lmnSa "e V aU that separates it from the temporal lobe of the bram ; its floor is situated ^^^'J^l^^ above the jugular fossa behmd, and the carotid canal m ron ; its P<?«terior wall pre.^^^^^^ the openmg of the mastoid antrum, and on its anterior wall is the openmg of he E 'stachmn tube. Acute mflammatory troubles spreacUng up to the tympanum ^.V he attCT are usually Dissociated with so much mflammatory swelhng of the '^"'^^.^^^f Eustachian tube as to occlude it, and thus the products of "^A^^^'^*"? » the tympanic cavity and directly mvolve the mastoid antrum. Under such circumstances