ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY 721 lower third of the tibia, on account of its close proximity to the bone. The application of a ligature to the vessel is rarely required, except in cases of wound or for traumatic aneurysm. The operation in the upper third of the leg is attended -with great difficulty on account of the depth of the vessel from the surface. An incision about four inches in length is made in the line of the artery to about a hand's breadth below the level of the knee-joint. The skin and superficial structures having been divided and the deep fascia exposed, the wound must be carefully dried, its edges retracted, and the white line separating the Tibialis anticus from the Extensor longus digitorum sought for. When this has been clearly defined, the deep fascia is to be divided in this line, and the Tibialis anticus separated from adjacent muscles with the handle of the scalpel or a director until the interosseous membrane is reached. The foot is to be flexed in order to relax the muscles, and upon drawing them apart the artery will be found lying on the interosseous membrane with the nerve on its outer side or on the top of it. The nerve should be drawn outwards, and the venee comites separated from the artery and the needle passed around it. To tie the vessel in the lower third of the leg above the ankle-joint, an incision about three inches in length should be made through the integument between the tendons of the Tibialis anticus and Extensor proprius hallucis muscles, the deep fascia being divided to the same extent. The tendon on either side should be retracted, when the vessel, accompanied by the venae comites, will be seen lying upon the tibia, with the nerve on the outer side. Branches.—The branches of the anterior tibial artery are: Posterior recun-ent tibial. Muscular. Superior fibular. Internal malleolar. Anterior recurrent tibial. External malleolar. The posterior recurrent tibial (a. recurrens tibiahs posterior), an inconstant branch, is given off from the anterior tibial before that vessel passes through the interosseous space. It ascends in front of the Popliteus muscle, which it supplies, and anastomoses with the lower articular branches of the pophteal artery, giving an offset to the superior tibio-fibular jomt. The superior fibular is sometimes derived from the anterior tibial, sometimes from the posterior tibial. It passes outwards, romid the neck of the fibula, through the Soleus, which it supplies, and ends in the substance of the Peroneus longus. The anterior recurrent tibial (a. recurrens tibialis anterior) arises from the anterior tibial, as soon as that vessel has passed through the interosseous space ; it ascends in the Tibialis anticus muscle, ramifies on the front and sides of the knee- joint, and assists in the formation of the circumpatellar plexus by anastomosing with the articular branches of the pophteal, and with the anastomotica magna. The muscular branches are numerous ; they are distributed to the muscles which He on either side of the vessel, some piercing the deep fascia to supply the mtegument, others passing through the interosseous membrane, and anastomosing with branches of the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries. The internal malleolar (a. malleolaris anterior mediahs) arises about two inches above the articulation, and passes beneath the tendons of the Extensor proprius hallucis and Tibialis anticus, to the inner side of the ankle, upon which it ramifies, anastomosing with branches of the posterior tibial and internal plantar arteries and with the internal calcanean from the posterior tibial. The external malleolar (a. malleolaris anterior lateralis) passes beneath the tendons of the Extensor longus digitorum and Peroneus tertius, and supplies the outer side of the ankle, anastomosing with the anterior peroneal artery, and with ascending twigs from the tarsal branch of the dorsahs pedis. DoRSAiis Pedis Artery (fig. 622) The dorsalis pedis artery (a. dorsalis pedis), the continuation of the anterior tibial, passes forwards from the bend of the ankle along the tibial side ot tlie dorsum of the foot to the back part of the first intermetatarsal space, ^^ here it divides into two branches, the dorsalis hallucis and communicating. ■Relations.—This vessel, in its course forwards, rests upon the anterior hga- a^T*i° r^^*' ankle-joint, the astragalus, navicular, and middle cuneiform bones, and the ligaments connecting them, being covered by the integument, fascia and anterior annular ligament, and crossed near its termination by the innermost tendon of the Extensor brevis digitorum. On its tibial side is the tendon of 3 A