PUBLISHED BY LONGMAN, BROWN, and Co. 9 The SUPPLEMENT separately, price 6*. [*/uaf ready. Discipline. By the Author of ** Letters to My Unknown Frieuds,” etc. Second Edition, enlarged.„ ISnio. price 2s. 6d. Eastlake.—Materials for a His- tory of Oil Painting. By Sir Charles Lock Eastlake, F.K.S., F.S.A., President of the Royal Academy. 8vo. price 16*. The Eclipse of Faith; or, a Visit to a Religious Sceptic. New Edition. Post Svo. price 9*. 6d. A Defence of The Eclipse of Faith, by its Author ; Being a Rejoinder to Professor Newman’s Reply. Post Svo. price 5s. 6d. The Englishman’s Greek Con- cordance of the New Testament: Being an attempt at a Verbal Connexion between the Greek and the English Texts; including a Concordance to the Proper Names, with Indexes Greek-English and Engiish-Greek. New Edition, with a new Index. Royal Svo. price 42*. The Englishman’s Hebrew and Chaldee Concordance of the Old Testa- ment : Being an attempt at a Verbal Con- nexion between the Original and the English Translations: with Indexes, a List of the Proper Names and their Occurrences, etc. 2 vols. royal 8vo. price ^£3. 13*. 6d. ; large paper, j£4. 14*. 6d. Ephemera. — A Handbook of Angling ^Teaching Fly Fishing, Trolling, Bottom Fishing, and Salmon Fishing ; with the Natural History of River Fish, and the best Modes of Catching them. By Ephe- mera. Third and cheaper Edition, cor- rected and improved; with Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. 5*. Ephemera.—The Book of the Salmon: Composing the Theory, Principles, and Practice of Fly-Fishing for Salmon ; Lists of good Salmon Flies for every good River in the F.mpire ; the Natural History of the Salmon, all its known Habits de- scribed, and the best way of artificially Breeding it explained. With numerous coloured Engravings of Salmon Flies and Salmon Fry. By Ephemera; assisted by Andrew Young, Fcp. Svo. with coloured Plates, price 14*. W. Erskine, Esq.—History of India under the House of Taimur (1526 to 1707). By Wm. Erskine, Esq., Editor of Memoir* of the Emperor Baber. The First Volume—History of Baber; His Early Life, 1483-1526; his Reign in India, 1526- 1530. The Second Volume,—History of Huwayun, 1530-1556. Vols. I. and II.8vo, Faraday (Professor).—The Sub- iect-Matter of Six Lectures on the Non- Metallic Elements, delivered before the Members of the Royal Institution in 1852, by Professor Faraday, D.C.L., F.R.S., etc. Arranged by permission from the Lecturer’s Notes by J. Scoffern, M.B., late Professor of Chemistry in the Alders- gate College of Medicine. To which are appended Remarks on the Quality and Tendencies of Chemical Philosophy, on Allotropism, and on Ozone; together with Manipulative Details relating to the Per- formances of Experiments indicated bv Professor Faraday. Fcp. Svo. price 5*. 6<f. Forester and Biddulph’s Nor- way.—Norway in 1848 and 1849: Containing Rambles among the Fjelds and Fjords of the Central and Western Districts; and including Remarks on its Political, Military, Ecclesiastical, and Social Organisation. By Thomas Forester, Esa.; and Lieutenant M. S. Biddulph, Royal Artillery. With Map, Woodcuts,and Plates. 8vo.price 18s. Francis. — Annals, Anecdotes, and Legends: A Chronicle of Life Assur- ance. By John Francis, Author of The History of the Bank of England, "Chro- nicles and Characters of the Stock Ex- change,” and A History of the English Railway. Post Svo. price 8*. 6d. The Poetical Works of Oliver Goldsmith. Edited by Bolton Cornet, Esq. Illustrated by Wood Engravings, from Designs by Members of the Etching Club. Square crown Svo. cloth, 2l*.; morocco <£1. 16*. Mr. W. R. Greg’s Contributions to the Edinburgh Review.—Essays on Poli- tical and Social Science. Contributed chiefly to the Edinburgh Review. By William B,. Greg, 2 vols. Svo. price 24*. Gurney.—Historical Sketches ; Illustrating some Memorable Events and Epochs, from a.d. 1400 to a d. 1546. By the Rev. John Hampden Gurnf.y, M.A., Rector of St. Mary’s, Mary-le-bone. Feu. 8vo. 7*. 6d. * Gosse.—A Naturalist’s Sojourn in Jamaica. By P. H. Gosse, Esq. With Plates. Post 8vo. price 14*. Gwilt. — An Encyclopaedia of Architecture, Historical, Theoretical, and Practical. By Joseph Gwilt. Illustrated with more than One Thousand Engravings on Wood, from Designs by J. S. Gwilt. Second Edition, with a Supplemental View of the Symmetry and Stability of Gothic Architecture: Comprising upwards of Eighty additional Woodcuts. 8vo. price 52*. 6d.