*24 NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS. The Thumb Bible ? or, Verbum Sempiternum. By J. Taylor. Being an Epitome ot the Old and New Testaments in English Verse. Reprinted from the Edition, of 1693, bound and clasped. In i 64mo. price Eighteenpence. Townsend —TheLives ofTwelve Eminent Judges of the Last and of the Pre- sent Century. By W. C. Townsend, Esq., M.A., Q.C. 2vols. 8vo. price 28#; Townsend.—Modern State Tri- nls, revised and illustrated with Essays and Notes. By YV.C. Townsend, Esq., M.A. Q.C. 2 vols. 8vo. price 30*. Sharon Turner’s Sacred His- tory of the World, attempted to be Philo- sophically considered, in a Series ot Letltaa to a Son. New Edition, edited by the Author's Son, the Rev. S. Turner.^ 3 vols. post 8vo. price 31*. 6d. Sharon Turner’s History of En- gland during the Middle Ages: Comprising the Reigns from the Norman Conquest to the Accession of Henry V111 - Fifth Edition, revised by the Rev. S. Turner. 4 vols. 8vo. price 60s. Sharon Turner’s History of the Anglo-Saxons, from the Earliest Period to the Norman Conquest. The Seventh Edi- tion, revised by the Rev. S. Turner,. 3 vols. 8vo. price 36*. Dr. Turton’sManual ofthe Land and Freshwater Shells of the British Is- lands. New Edition, with considerable Ad- ditions. By John Edward Gray: with Woodcuts, and 12 coloured Plates. Post 8vo. price lot. Dr. Ure’s Dictionary of Arts, Manulactures and Mines : Containing a clear Exposition of their Principles and Practice. The Fourth Edition, much en- larged and corrected throughout; with all the Information comprised in the Supple- ment of Recent Improvements brought down to the Present Tunc, and incorporated in the Dictionary. Most of the Articles being entirely re-written, and many New Articles now first added. With nearly 1,600 Woodcuts. 2 vols. 8vo. price 60*. Waterton.—Essays on Natural History, chiefly Ornithology. By C. Wa- terton, Esq. With an Autobiography of the Author and Views of Walton Hall. New and cheaper Edition. 2 vois. tep. 8vo. 10». Separately: Vol. I. (First Series),os. 6d. Vol. U. (Second Series), 4s. 6<f. Alaric Watts’s Lyrics of the Heart, and other Poems. With 41 highly- finished Line Engravings, executed ex- pressly for the work by the most eminent Painters snd Engravers. Square crown 8vo. price 31s. 6rf. boards, or4os. hound in mo- rocco i Proof Impressions, 63s. boards. Webster and Parkes’s Ency- cloptediaof Domestic Economy; Comprising such subjects as are most immediately connected with Housekeeping i As, The Construction of Domestic Edifices, with the Modes of Warming, Ventilating, and Lighting them—A Description of the vari- ous Articles of Furniture, with the Nature of their Materials—Duties of Servants, etc. New Edition; with uearly 1,000 Woodcuts, 8vo. price 50*. Willich’s Popular Tables for ascertaining the Value of Lifehold, Lease- hold, and Church Property, Renewal Fines, etc. Third Edition, with additional Tables of Natural or Hyperbolic Logarithms, Tri- gonometry, Astronomy, Geography, etc. Post 8vo. price 9*. Lady Willoughb/’s Diary (1635 to 1663). Printed, ornamented, and bound in the style of the period to which The Diary refers. New Edition; in Two Parts. Square fcp. 8vo. price 8*. each, boards; or, bound in morocco, 18*. each. Wilmot’s Abridgment of Black- stone's Commentaries on the Laws of En- gland, intended for the use of Young Per- sons. and comprised in a series of Letters from a Father to his Daughter. A New Edition, corrected and brought down to the Present Dav, by Sir John E. Eardley Wilmot, Bart., Barrister at Law, Recorder of Warwick. 12mo. piice 6*. 6d. Youatt.—The Horse. By Wil- Liam Youatt. With a Treatise of Draught. A New Edition; with numerous Wood En- gravings from Designs by William Harvey. (Messrs. Longman and Co.’s Edition should be ordered). 8vo. price 10*. Youatt.—The Dog. By William Youatt- A New Edition; with numerous Engravings trom Designs by William Har- vey. 8vo. 6*. Zumpt’s Larger Grammar of the Latin Language. Translated ami adapted fur the use of the English Students, by Dr. L. Schmitz, F.R.S.E., Rector of the High School of Edinburgh: With numerous Ad ditionsand Corrections bv the Author and Translator. The Third Edition, thoroughly revised; to which is added, an Index tby the Rev. J. T. White, M.A.) of all the Pas- sages of l.atin Authors referred to and explained in the Grammar. 8vo. price 14s. March, 1854. London: Printed by M. Mason, Ivy Lane, Paternoster Row.