6 NEW WOKKS and NEW EDITIONS Black’s Practical Treatise on Brewing, Based on Chemical and Econo- mical Principles: With Formula' for Public- Brewers, and Instructions for Private Fami- lies. New Edition, with Additions. 8vo. price 10s. 6d. Blaine’s Encyclopaedia of Rural Sports; or, a complete Account, Historical, Practical, and Descriptive, of Hunting, Shooting, Fishing, Pacing, and other Field Sports and Athletic Amusements of the present day. A New and thoroughly re- vised Edition; with numerous additional Illustrations. The Hunting, Racing, and nil relative to Horses and Horsemanship, revised bv Harry Hieovkr ; Shooting and Fishing by Ephemera; and Coursing by Mr. A. Graham. With upwards of 600 Woodcuts. 8vo. price 50*. Blair’s Chronological and His- torical Tables, from the Creation to the present Time; with Additions and Cor- rections from the most authentic Writers ; including the Computation of St. Paul, as connecting the Period from the Exode to the Temple. Under the revision of Sin IIknry Ellis, K.H. New Edition with corrections. Imperial 8vo. price 31*. 6d. Bloomfield.—The Greek Testa- xnent: With copious English Notes, Critical, Philological, and Explanatory. Especially formed "lor the use of advanced Students and Candidates for Holy Orders. By the llev. S. T. Bloomtield, D.D. F.S.A. New Edition. 2 vols.8vo. with Map, price «sC2. Dr. Bloomfield’s Additional Annotations on the above. 8vo. price 16s. Bloomfield.—College and School Greek Testament; with shorter English Notes, Critical, Philological, and Explana- tory, formed for use in Colleges and the Public Schools. By the Rev. S. T. Bloom * field, D.D., F.S.A. New Edition, greatly enlarged and improved. Fcp. 8vo. 10*. 6d. Dr. Bloomfield’s College and School Lexicon to the Greek Testament. Fcp. 8vo. price 10*. 6rf. Bode.—Ballads from Herodotus: With an Introductory Poem. By the Rev. J. E. Bode, M.A., late Student of Christ Church. 16mo. price 5*. A Treatise on the Steam Engine, in it* Application to Mines, Mills, Steam Navigation, and Railways. By the Artisan Club. Edited by John Bourne, C.K. New Edition. With 3(1 Steel Plates, and 349 Wood Engravings. 4to. price 27s. Bourne. — A Treatise on the Screw- Propeller : With various Suggestions of Improvement. By John Bourne, C.E. With 20 large Plates and numerous Wood- cuts. 4to. price 3-8*. Bourne.—A Catechism of the Steam Engine, illustrative of the Scientific Principles upon which its Operation depends, and the Practical Details of its structure, in its Applications to Mines, Mills, Steam Navigation, and Railways; with various .Suggestions of Improvement. By John Bourne, C. E. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 6*. Brande.—A Dictionary of Sci- eiict. Literature, and Art ; comprising the History, Description and Scientific Prin- ciples of every Branch of Human Know- ledge ; with the Derivation and Definition of all the Terms in general use. FMited by W.T. Brande, F.R.S.L. and K.; assisted by Dr. J. Cauvin. The Second Edition, revised and corrected; including a Supple- ment, and numerous Wood Engravings. 8vo. price 60*. The SUPPLEMENT separately, price3*. 6rf. Bull.—The Maternal Manage- ment of Children in Health and Disease. By T. Bull, M.l)., Member of the Royal College of Physicians; formerly Physician Accoucheur to the Husbury Midwifery in stitution. New Edition, Fcap. 8vo. 5*. Bull.—Hints to Mothers, for the Management of their Health during the Penoo of Pregnancy and in the Lying- in Room: with an Exposure of Popular F^rrors in connexion with those subjects, etc.; and Hints on Nursiug. By T. Bull, M.D. New Edition. Fcp. price 5*. Bunsen.—Hippolytus and his Age; Or, Doctrine and Practice of the Church of Rome under Commodus and Alexander Severus : and Ancient and Mo- dern Christianity and Divinity compared. By C. C. J Bunsf.n, D.D., D.C.L. A New Edition, corrected, remodeled, and ex tended. 7 vols. 8vo. [Nearly ready. 1. Hippolytus and his Age; or, the Be- ginnings and Prospects of Christianity New Edition, 2 vols.Svo. Separate Works connected with Hippo- lytus and his Age, as forming its Philoso- phical and Philological Key ;— 2. Sketch of the Philosophy of Language and Religion ; or, the Beginnings and Prospects of Mankind. 2 vols. 8vo. 3. Analecta Ante-Nicaena.. 3 vols.8vo. I. Reliquite Literaria?.; II. Reliquiae Cauonicae ; HI. fteliquiie Liturgicie.