19 published BY LONGMAN, BROWN, and Co. Captain Portlock’s Report on the Geology of the County of Londonderry, and of Parts of Tyrone and Fermanagh, examined and described under the Autho- rity of the Master-General and Board o Ordnance. 8vo. with 48 Plates, price 24s. Power’s Sketches in New Zea- land, with Pen and Pencil. From a Journal kept in that Country, from July 1846 to June 1848. With Plates and Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 12#. Pulman’s Vade-Mecum of Ply- Fishing for Trout; being a complete Prac- tical Treatise on that Branch ot the Art of Angling; with plain and copious Instruc- tions for the Manufacture of Artificial Flies. Third Edition, with Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. price 6#. Pycroft’s Course of English Heading, adapted to every Taste and Ca- pacity ; With Literary Anecdotes. New and cheaper Editiou. Fcp. 8vo. price os. Dr. Reece’s Medical Guide; for the use of the Clergy, Heads of Families, Schools, and Junior Medical Practitioners: Comprising a complete Modern Dispensa- tory, and a PracticalTreatise on the distin- guishing Symptoms, Causes, Prevention, Cure, and Palliation of the Diseases incident to the Human Frame. With the latest Discoveries in the different departments of the Healing Art, Materia Medica, etc Seventeenth Edition, corrected and en- „r£e<LbJr the Author's Son, Dr. H. Reece, M.ll.C.S. etc. 8vo. price 12*. Rich’s Illustrated Companion to the Latin Dictionary anti Greek Lexicon: Forming a Glossary ol all the Words repre- senting Visible Objects connected with the Arts, Manufactures, and Every-day Life of the Ancients. With Woodcut Representa- tions of nearly 2,000 Objects from the Antique. Post 8vo. price 21j. Sir J. Richardson’s Journal of a Boat Voyage through Rupert’s Land and the Arctic Sea, in Search of the Discovery Ships under Command of Sir John Franklin. With an Appendix on the Physical Geo- graphy of North America ; a Map, Plates, and Woodcuts. 2 vols. 8vo. price 31s. (id. Richardson (Captain).—Horse- manship ; or, the Art of Riding and Ma- naging a Horse, adapted to the Guidance of Ladies and Gentlemen on the Road and in the Field : With Instructions for Breaking in Colts and Young Horses. By Captain Richardson, late of the 4th Light Dra goons. VVitti 5 Line Engravings. Square crown 8vo. price 14s. Riddle’s Complete Latin-Eng- lish and English-Latin Dictionary, for the use of Colleges aud Srhools. Ar to and cheaper Edition, revised and corrected. 8vo.21s. Separately ■(Dictionary, 7». •'ll heLatin«EnglibhDictionary,15#- Riddle’s Copious and Critical Latin.English Lexicon, founded on the Gcrman-Latin Dictionaries of Dr. William Freund. New Editiou. Post 4to. price 31#. lid. Riddle’s Diamond Latin-Eng- lish Dictionary : A Guide to the Meaning, Quality, and right Accentuation of Latin Classical Words. Royal 32mo. price 4#. Rivers’s Rose-Amateur’s Guide; containing ample Descriptions of all the fine leading varieties of Roses, regularly classed in their respective Families; their History and Mode of Culture. New Edi- tion, Fcp. 8vo.6#. Dr. E. Robinson’s Greek and English Lexicon of the Greek Testament. A New Edition, revised and in great part re-written. 8vo. price 18#. Roby.—Remains, Legendary & Poetical, of John Roby, Author of Tradi- tions of Lancashire. With a Sketch of his Literary Life and Character by his Widow ; and a Portrait. Post 8vo. price lOj. 6d. Rogers.—Essays selected from Contributions to the Edinburgh Review. By Henri Rogers. 2 vols. 8vo. price 24#. Dr. Roget’s Thesaurus of Eng- lish Words and Phrases classified and ar- ranged so as to facilitate the Expression of Ideas and assist in Literary Composi- tion. New Edition, revised and enlarged. Medium 8vo. price 14#. Rowton’s Debater: A Series of complete Debates, Outlines of Debates, and Questions for Discussion; with ample references to the best Sources of Information on each particular Topic. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 6#. Letters of Rachael Lady Rus- scll. A New Edition, including several unpublished Letters, together with those edited by Miss Bebiiy. With Portraits, Vignettes, and Facsimile. 2 vols. post Svo. price 15#. The Life of William Lord Rus- sell. Bv the Right Hon. Lord John Rus- sell, M.P. The Fourth Edition, complete in One Volume ; with a Portrait engraved on Steel by S. Beilin, from the original by Sir Peter Lely at Woburn Abbey. Post Svo. price 10#. 6d.