10 NEW WOliKS AND NEW EDITIONS Maitland.—The Church in the Catacombs: A Description of the Primi- tive Church of Home, illustrated by its Sepulchral Remains. By the Rev.Charles Maitland. New* Edition, with many Wood- cuts. 8vo. price 14s. Mrs. Marcet’s Conversations on Chemistry, in which the Elements of that Science are familiarly Explained and Illus- trated by Experiments. New Edition, en- larged and improved. 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. price 14«. Mrs. Marcet’s Conversations on Natural Philosophy, in which the Elements of that Science are familiarly explained. New Edition, enlarged and corrected ; with 23 Plates. Fcp. 8vo. price 10#. 64. Mrs. Marcet’s Conversations on Political Economy, in which the Elements of that Science are familiarly explained. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 7*. 64. Mrs. Marcet’s Conversations on Vegetable Physiology; comprehending the Elements of Botany, with their Application to Agriculture. New Edition; with Four Plates. Fcp. 8vo. price 9#. Mrs. Marcet’s Conversations on Land and Water. New Edition, revised and corrected ; with a coloured Map, shew- ing the comparative Altitude of Mountains. Fcp. 8vo. price 5#. 64. Martineau.—Church History in England: Being a Sketch of the History of the Church of England from the Earliest Times to the Period of the Reformation. By the Rev. Arthur Martineau, M.A., late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. 12mo. price 6i. Maunder’s Biographical Trea- sury ; consisting of Memoirs, Sketches, and brief Notices of above 12,000 Eminent Per- sons of all Ages and Nations, from the Earliest Period of History; forming a new and complete Dictionary of Universal Bio- graphy. The Eighth Edition, revised throughout, and brought down to the close of the year 1853. Fcp. 8vo. 10*. cloth; bound in roan, 12*.; calf lettered, 12*. 64. Maunder’s Historical Treasury 5 comprising a General Introductory Outline of Universal History, Ancient and Modern, and a Series of separate Histories of every rincipal Nation that exists; their Rise, rogress, and Present Condition, the Moral and Social Character of their respective Inhabitants, their Religion, Manners, and Customs, etc., etc. New Edition ; revised throughout, and brought down to the Pre- sent Time. Fcp. 8vo. 10*. cloth; roan, 12*.; calf, 12*. 64. Maunder’s Scientific and Lite- rary>Treasury : A New and Popular En- cyclopaedia of Science and the Belles- Lettres ; including all Branches of Science, and every subject connected with Litera- ture and Art. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. f rice 10*. cloth ; bound in roan, 12*.; calf ettered, 12*. 64. Maunder’s Treasury of Natural History; Or, a Popular Dictionary of Ani- mated Nature: In which the Zoological Characteristics that distinguish the different Classes,Genera, and Species, are combined with a variety of interesting Information illustrative of the Habits, Instincts, and General Economy of the Animal Kingdom. With 900 Woodcuts. New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 10*. cloth ; roan, 12#.; calf, 12*. 64. Maunder’s Treasury of Know- ledge, and Library of Reference. Compris- ing an English Dictionary and Grammar, an Universal Gazetteer, a Classical Diction- ary, a Chronology, a Law Dictionary, a Synopsis of the Peerage, numerous useful Tables, etc. The Twentieth Edition care- fully revised and corrected throughout : With some Additions. Fcp 8vo. price 10*. cloth ; bound in roan, 12*.; calf, 12*. 64. Merivale. — A History of the Romans under the Empire. By the Rev. Charles Merivale, B.D., late Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge. Vols. 1. and II. 8vo. price 28*.; and Vol. Ill.com pleting the History to the Establishment of the Monarchy by Augustus, price 14*. Merivale.—The Fall of the Bo- man Republic : A Short History of the last Century of the Commonwealth. Bv the Rev Charles Merivale, B D., late Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge. 12mo. price It. 64. Merivale.—Memoirs of Cicero: A Translation of Cicero in hit Let ten, by Bernard Rudolph Abekeu. Edited by the Rev. Charles Merivale, B.D. 12mo. Milner’s History of the Church of Christ With Additions by the late Rev. Isaac Milner, D.D., F.R.S. A New Edition, revised, with additional Notes by the Rev. T. Grantham, B.D. 4 vols. 8vo. price 52*. Montgomery.—Original Hymns for Public, Social, and Private Devotion. By James Montgomery. 18mo. 5*. 64.