published by LONGMAN, BROWN, and Co. 7 Bunsen.—Egypt’s Place in Uni- versal History: An Historical Investigation, in Five Books, by C. C. J. Bunsen, D.D., D.C.Ij. Translated from the German, by C. H. Cottrell, Ksq. M.A.—Vol. 1. con- taining the First Book, or Sources and Pri- meval Facts of Egyptian History: With an Egyptian Grammar and Dictionary, and a complete List of Hieroglyphieal Sijjns ; an Appendix of Authorities, embracing the complete Text of Manetho and Eratosthe- nes, /Egyptiaea from Pliny, Strabo, etc , and Plates representing the Egyptian Divinities. With many illustrations. 8vo. price 28s. *** The second Volume is preparing for publication. Burton.—The History of Scot- land, from the Revolution to the Extinction of the last Jacobite Insurrection (1689— 1748.) By John Hill Burton, Author of The Life uf David Hume, etc. 2 vols. 8vo. price 26s. Bishop Butler’s General Atlas of Modern and Ancient Geography : com prising Fifty-two full-coloured Maps ; with complete Indexes. New Edition, nearly all re-engraved, enlarged, and greatly im- proved; with Corrections from the most authentic Sources in both the Ancient and Modern Maps, many of which are entirely new. Edited by the Author’s Son, the Rev. T. Butler. Royal 8vo. price 24s. half bound. Separately The Modern Atlas, of 28 full- coloured Maps. Rl. Svo 12s. The Ancient Atlas of 24 full- coloured Maps. Rl.Svo. 12s. Bishop Butler’s Sketch of Mo- dern and Ancient Geography. New Edition, carefully revised, with such Alterations introduced as continually progressive Dis- coveries and the latest Information have rendered necessary. Edited by the Author's Son, the Rev. T. Butler, 8vo. price 9s. Caird.—English Agriculture in 1851) and 1851 ; Its Condition and Prospects. By James Cairo, Esq., of Baldoon, Agri- cultural Commissioner of The Times. The Second Edition. 8vo. price 14*. Calvert.—The Wife’s Manual; or, Prayers and Thoughts on Several Occa- sions of a Matron’s Life. By the Rev. W illtAm Calveht, nector of St. Autholin, and one of the Minor Canons of St. Paul’s. PostSvo. [Jn the Prma. The Calling & Responsibilities of a Governess. By Amica. Fcp. Svo. price 4*. 6d. Catlow.—Popular Conchology; or, the Shell Caomet arranged : being an Introduction to the modern System ol Conchology; with a Sketch of the Natural History oi tlie Animals, an Account of the Formation of the Shells, and a complete Descriptive List of the Families and Genera. By Agnes Catlow. New Edition, with numerous additional Woodcuts. Post 8vo. [In the Press. Cecil. — The Stud Parm ; or, Hints on Breeding Horses lor the Turl, the Chase, and the Road. Addressed to Breeders of Race Horses and Hunters, Lauded Proprietors, and especially to Te- nant farmers. By Cecil. Fcp. Svo. with Frontispiece, os. Cecil.—Records of the Chase, and Memoirs of Celebrated Sportsmen, illustrating some of the Usages of Olden Times and comparing them with prevailing Customs : Together with an introduction to most of the Fashionable Hunting Countries; and Comments. By Cecil. With two Plates by B. Herring, Fcp. fivo. price 7*- 6d. The Cabinet Gazetteer: APopu- lar Exposition of all the Countries oi the World ; their Government, Population, Revenues, Commerce and Industries; Agricultural, Manufactured, and Mineral Products ; Religion, Laws, Manners, and Social State : with brief Notices of their History and Antiquities. From the latest Authorities. By the Author of The Cabinet Lawyer. Fcap. 8vo. price 10*. 6d. cloth ; or 13*. calf lettered. Cecil.—Stable Practice; or Hints on Training lor the Turf, the Clmse, and the Road, with Observations on Racing and Hunting, Wasting, Ruce Riding, and Han- dicapping. Addressed to Owners of Racers, Hunters, and other Horses, and to all who are concerned in Racing, Steeple-Chasing, and Fox Hunting. By Cecil. Reap. Svo. with Plate, price 6s. half- bound. The Cabinet Lawyer: A Popu- lar Digest of the Laws of England, Civil and Criminal; with a Dictionary of Law Terms, Maxims, Statutes, and Judicial Anti- quities; Correct Tables of Assessed Taxes, Stamp Duties, Excise Licences, and Post- Horse Duties ; Post-Office Regulations, and Prison Discipline. 16th Edition, compris- ing the Public Acts of the Session 1853. Fcap. Svo. price 10*. 6d.—Supplement, price 1*. Cbalybaeus’s Historical Survey of Modern Speculative Philosophy, from Kant to Hegel. 'Iranslated from the German by Alfred Tulk. Post8vo. [Just ready. Conversations on Botany. New Edition, improved; with 22 Plates. Fcp. 8vo. price 7*. 6<*.; or with the Plates | coloured, J2*.