NEW WOItKS and NEW EDITIONS 14 bv Mrs. Loudon. 8vo. price 50*. Supplement separately, price 14#. Letters to my Unknown Friends Bv a Lady, Author of Letters on Hap pi- neu. Fourth and cheaper Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 5s. Lindley.—The Theory of Horti- culture; Or, an Attempt to explain the principal Operation* of Gardening upon Physiological Principles. ByJohn Lindley, Ph.L). F'.R.S. New Edition, revised and improved; with Wood Engravings. 8vo. [In the press. Dr. John Lindley’s Introduction to Botany. New Edition, with Corrections and copious Additions. 2 vols 8vo. with Six Plates and numerous Woodcuts, 24s. Linwood.—Anthologia Oxonien- sis, sive, Florilcgium e lusibus poeticis di- versorum Oxoniensium Graecis et Latinis decerptum. Curante Gulielmo Linwood, M.A. iEdis Christi Alummo. 8vo. price 14s. Lr. Little on Deformities.—On the Nature and Treatment of Deformities of the Human Frame. By W. J. Little, M.D., Physician to the London Hospital, Founder of the Royal Orthopedic Hospital, etc. With 160 VV'oodcuts and Diagrams. 8to. price 15s. Litton.—The Church of Christ, in its Idea, Attributes, and Ministry: With a particular Reference to the Controversy on the Subject between Romanists and Pro- testants. By the Rev. Edward Arthur Litton, M.A., Vice-Principal of St. Edmund Hall, Oxford. 8vo. price 16s. Lorimer’s (C.)Letters toaYoung Master Mariner on some Subjects connected with ilia Calling. New Edition. Fcp. Svo. price 5a. 6d. Loudon’s Self-Instruction for Young Gardeners, Foresters, Bailiffs, Land Stewards, and Farmers; in Arith- metic, Book-keeping, Geometry, Mensur- ation, Practical Trigonometry, Mechanics, Land-Surveying, Levelling, Planning and Mapping, Architectural Drawing, and Iso- metrical Projection and Perspective: With Examples shewing their applications to Horticultural and Agricultural Purposes ; a Memoir, Portrait, and Woodcuts. 8vo. price Js. 6d. Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Gar- (lening; comprising the Theory and Prac- tice of Horticulture, Floriculture, Arbori- culture, and Landscape Gardening : Includ- ing all the latest improvements, a General History of Gardening in all Countries; a Statistical View- of its Present State ; and Suggestions for its Future Progress in the British Isle*. With many hundred Wood- cuts. New Edition, corrected and improved Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Trees and Shrubs; or the Arboretum et Vrutice- tum Bn tannic urn abridged: Containing the Hardy 1 revs and Shrubs of Great Britain, Native and Foreign, Scientifically and Popularly Described: with their Pro- pagation. Culture, and Uses in the Arts ; and with Engravings of nearly all the Spe- cies. Adapted for the use of Nurserymen, Gardeners, and Foresters. With about 2,000 Woodcuts, 8vo. price 50s. Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Agri- culture: comprising the Theory and Prac- tice of the Valuation,Transfer, Laying-out, Improvement, and Management of Landed Property, and of the Cultivation and Eco- nomy of the Animal and Vegetable Pro- ductions of Agriculture ; Including all the latest improvements, a general Historv of Agriculture in all Countries, a Statistical View of its present State, and Suggestions for its future progress in the British Isles. New Edition ; with 1,100 Woodcuts. Svo. price 50s. Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Plants, including ail the Plants which are now found in, or have been introduced into, Great Britain, giving their Natural History, accompanied oy such descriptions, en- graved Figures, and elementary detail*, as may enable a beginner, who is a mere En- glish reader, to discover the name of every Plant which he may find in flower, and ac- quire all the information respecting it which is useful and interesting. New Edition, corrected throughout and brought down to the year 1854, by Mrs. Loudon and George Don, Esq., F.L.S., etc. 8vo [In the Sprtng. Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Cot- tage, Farm, and Villa Architecture and Furniture : containing numerous Designs, from the Villa to the Cottage and the F'arm, including Farm Houses, Farmeries, aud other Agricultural Buildings; Coun- try inns, Public Houses, and Parochial Schools, with the requisite Fittings-up, Fixtures, and Furniture, and appropriate Offices, Gardens, and Garden Scenery : Each Design accompanied by Analytical and Critical Remarks. New Edition, edited by Mrs. Loudon ; with more than 2,000 Woodcuts. 8vo. price 63#. Loudon’s Hortus Britannicusj Or, Catalogue of all the Plants indigenous to, cultivated in, or introduced, into Britain. An eutlrely New Edition corrected through- out: With a Supplement, including all the New Plants, and a New General Index to the whole Work. F.dited by Mrs. Lou- don ; assisted by W. H. Baxter and David Wooster. 8vo. price 3D. fid.—The