10 NEW WORKS and NEW EDITIONS Sidney Hall’s General Large Library Atlas of Fifty-three Maps (size 20 in. by 16 in.), with the Divisions and Bound- aries carefully coloured ; and an Alpha- betical Index of all the Names contained in the Maps. New Edition, corrected from the best and most recent Authorities ; with the Railways laid down, and many entirely new Maps. Coloiubier 4to. price £h. h». half-russia. Hamilton.—Discussions in Phi- losophy .and Literature, Education and University Reform. Chiefly from the Edin- burgh Review; corrected, vindicated, en- larged* in Notes and Appendices. By Sir William Hamilton, Bart. Second Edi- tion, with Additions. 8vo. price 21s. Hare (Archdeacon).— The Life of Luther, in Forty-eight Historical En- gravings. By Gustav KSnio. With Ex- planations by Archdeacon Hare- Square crown 8vo. [In the preu. Harrison. — The Light of the Forge; or. Counsels drawn from the Sick- Bed of E. M. Bv the Rev. William Harrison, M.A., Rector of Birch, Essex, and Domestic Chaplain to H. R. H. the Duchess of Cambridge. With 2 Wood- cuts. Fcp. Svo. price 5#. Harry Hieover.—The Hunting- Field. By Harry Hieover. With Two Plates, one representing The Right Sort; the other, The Wrong Sort. Fcp. 8vo. 5s. Harry Hieover. — Practical Horsemanship. By Harry Hieover. With 2 Plates, one representing Going like Workmen ; the other. Going like Mofft. Fcp. 8vo. 5*. half-bound. Harry Hieover.—The Stud, for Practical Purposes and Practical Men t being a Guide to the Choice of a Horse for use more than for show. By Harrv Hik- over. With 2 Plates, one representing A pretty good tort for mott purpotet; the other, Knythcr a bad tort for any purpotc. Fcp. 8vo. price Sr. half-bound. Harry Hieover. — The Pocket and the Stud; or, Practical Hints on the Management of the Stable. By Harry Hieover. Second Edition ; with Portrait of the Author on his favourite Horse Harlequin. Fcp. 8vo. price 6*. half-bound. Harry Hieover. — Stable Talk and Table Talk ; or Spectacles for Young Sportsmen. By Harry Hieover. New Edition, 2 vols. Svo. with Portrait, 24s. Haydn’s Book of Dignities: con- taining Rolls of the Official Personages of the British Empire, Civil, Ecclesiastical, Judicial, Military, Naval, and Municipal, from the Earliest Periods to the Present Time: compiled chiefly from the Records of the Public Offices. Together with the So- vereigns of Europe, from the Foundation of their respective States; the Peerage and Nobility of Great Britain; and numerous other Lists. Being a New Edition, im- proved and continued, of Beatson's Political Index, By Joseph Haydn, Compiler of The Dictionary of Datet, and other Works. 8vo. price 25#. half-bound. Kaydon.—The Life of Benjamin Robert Haydon, Historical Painter, from his Autobiography and Journals. Edited and compiled by Tom Taylor* M.A.«of the Inner Temple, Esq.; late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge ; and late Pro fessor of the English Language and Litera- ture in University College, London. Se- cond Edition, with Additions and an Index. 3 vols. post Svo. price 31s. 6d. Sir John Herschel. — Outlines of Astronomy. By Sir John F. W. Hp.ks- chfl, Bart. etc. New Edition; with Plates and Wood Engravings. Svo. price 18#. Hill.—Travels in Siberia and Russia. By S. S. Hill, Esq. 2 vols. post 8vo. with Map. Hints on Etiquette and the Usages of Society: With a Glance at Bad Habits. By AyotySfr “Manners make the Man.'* New Edition, revised (with Ad- ditions) by a Ladyof Rank. Fcp. 8vo. price Hnlf-a-Crown. Hole.—Prize Essay on the His- tory and Management of Literary, Scien- tific, and Mechanics' Institutions, and especially how far they may be developed and combined so as to promote the Moral Well-being and Industry of the Country. By James Hole, Hon. Secretary of the Yorkshire Union of Mechanics' Institutes. Svo. price 5#. Lord Holland’s Memoirs. — Memoirs of the Whig Party during My Time. By Henry Richard Lord Hol- land. Edited by his Son, Henry Ed- ward Lord Hoij.and. Vols. 1. and II. post Svo. price 9# 6d. rath. Lord Holland’s Foreign Remi- niscences. Edited by his Son, Henry Ed- ward Lord Holland. Second Edition ; with Facsimile. Post Svo, price JO#. 6d.