8 NEW WORKS and NEW EDITIONS Captain Chesterton’s Autobio- graphy.— Peace, War, and Adventure: Being an Autobiographical Memoir of George Laval Chesterton, formerly of the Field-Train Department of the Royal Ar- tillery, subsequently a Captain in the Army of Columbia, and at present Governor of the House of Correction at Cold iiatli Fields. 2 vols. post 8vo. price 16*. Chevreul on Colour.—The Prin- ciples of Harmony and Contrast of Colours, and their Applications to the Arts : In- cluding Painting, Interior Decoration, Tapestries, Carpets, Mosaics, Coloured Glazing, Paper-Staining, Calico Printing, Letterpress Printing, Map Colouring, Dress, Landscape and Flower Gardening, etc. By M. E. Chevreul. Membre de l’lnstitut de France, etc. Translated from the French by Charles Martel. Illustrated with Diagrams, etc. Crown 8vo. [In the press. Conybeare and Howson.—The Life and Epistles of Saint Paul : Com- prising a complete Biography of the Apostle, and a Translation of his Epistles inserted in Chronological order. By the Rev. W. J. Conybeare, M.A., late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge; and the Rev. J. S. Howson, M.A. Principal of the Collegiate Institution, Liverpool. With 40 Engravings on Steel and 100 Woodcuts, 2 vols. 4to. price £2. 8s. Copland.—A Dictionary of Prac- tical Medicine : Comprising (general Path- ology, the Nature and Treatment of Dis- eases, Morbid Structures, and tlie Dis- orders especially incidental to Climates, to Sex, and to the different Epochs of Life, with numerous approved Formulae of the Medicines recommended. By James Cop- land, M D.. Consulting Physician to Queen Charlotte’s Lying-in Hospital, etc. Vols. I. and II. 8vo. price <j£3; and Parts X. to XVI. 4#. 6d. each. The Children’s Own Sunday- Book. By Miss Julia Corner, Author of Questions on the History »f Europe. With Two Illustrations. Square fcp. 8vo. price bs. Cresy. — An Encyclopaedia of Civil Engineering, Historical, Theoretical, and Practical. By Edw. Cresy, F.S.A., C.E. Illustrated by upwards of 3<K)0 Woodcuts, explanatory of the Principles, Machinery, and Constructions which come under the Direction of the Civil Engineer. 8vo. price £3. 13#. 6 d. The Cricket-Field; or, the Sci- .ence and History of the Game. Illustrated with Diagrams, and enlivened with Anec- dotes. By the Author of Principles of Scientific Butting. Fcp. 8vo. with 2 Plates price 5#. half-bound. Lady Cust’s Invalid’s Book.— The Invalid** Own Book : A Collection of Recipes from various Books and various Countries. By the Honourable Lady Cust. Fcp. 8vo. price 3#. 6d. Dale.—The Domestic Liturgy and Family Chaplain, in Two Parts: The F'irst Part being Church Services adapted for Domestic Use, with Prayers for every Day of the Week, selected exclusivelyfrom the Book of Common Prayer. Part II. Comprising an appropriate Sermon for every Sunday in the Year. By the Rev. Thomas Dale, M.A„ Canon-Residentiary of St. Paul’s Cathedral. 2d Edition. Post 4to. 21#. cloth ; 31#. 6d. calf; or <£2.10#. morocco. TliE FAMILY CHAPLAIN, 12#. 1 ^ ( The Domestic Lituroy, 10#. 6d. Davis.—China during the War and since the Peace. By Sir J. F. Davis, Bart., F R S., late H.M. Plenipotentiary in China ; Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Hongkong. 2 vols. post 8vo. price 21#. De Felice.—History of the Pro- testauts of France, from the Commence- ment of the Reformation to the Present Time. Translated from the French of G. De Felice, D.D., Professor of Theology at Montauhan, by E. West: With a Sup- plemental Chapter, written expressly for this tranalation by Dr. De Felice. 2 vols. post 8vo. price 12#. “ We can speak with confidence of the idiomatic accuracy of Mr. West’s trans- lation, whose critical acquaintance with the French language has enabled him to produce a rendering of the French Pro- fessor’s work in the highest degree credit- able to his scholarly ability and taste. He has turned good French into good English, without taking unclassical liberties with either one language or the other. As the work is from the pen of a writer of singular perspicuity, enlarged research, and fervent devotion to the cause of evangelical Protes- tantism, it will he justly regarded by all competent judges as a valuable addition to the literature of our country.”—Evangel*- cal Magazine. Delabeche.—The Geological 0b- server. By Sir Henry T Delabeche, F.R S. Director-General of the Geological Survey of the United Kingdom. New Edition ; with numerous Woodcuts. 8vo. pride IS#. Delabeche.—Report on the Geo- logy of Cornwall, Devon, and West Somer- set. By Sir Henry T. Delabeche, F.R.S., Director-General of the Geological Survey. With Maps, Woodcuts, and 12 Plates. 8vo. price 14#. De la Rive.—A Treatise on Elec- tricity, in Theory and Practice. By A. De la Rive, Professor in the Academy of Geneva. In Two Volumes, with numerous Wood Engravings. Vol. 1. 8vo. price 18s.