NEW WOKKS AND NEW EDITIONS Southey’s The Doctor etc. Com- plete in OneVolume. Edited by the Rev. J. W. Warter, B.D. With Portrait, Vig- nette, Bust, and coloured Plate. New Edi- tion. Square crown 8vo. price 2D. Stephen.—Lectures on the His- tory of France ; By the Right Hon. Sir James Stephen, K.C.B., LL.D., Pro- fessor of Modern History iu the University of Cambridge. Second Edition, 2vols.8vo. price 24#. Stephen.—Essays in Ecclesias- tical Biography; from the Edinburgh Re view. By the Right Hon. Sir James Ste- phen, K.C.B., LL.D. Third Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. 245. Steel’s Shipmaster’s Assistant, for the use of Merchants, Owners and Masters of Ships, Officers of Customs, and all Persons connected with Shipping or Commerce; containing the Law ami Local Regulations affecting the Owner- ship, Charge, and Management of Ships and their Cargoes; togetuer with Notices of other Matters, and all necessary Infor- mation for Mariners. New Edition, re- written, by G. VVillmork, Esq,, M.A., Barrister-at-Law; G. CikmeNts, of the Customs, Loudon; and W. 'Pate, Author of The Modern Cambist. 8vo. price 28». Stonehenge. — The Greyhound: Being a Treatise on the Art of Breeding, Rearing, ami Training Greyhounds for Pub- lic Running; their Diseases and Treat- men : Containing also, Rules for the Ma- nagement of Coursing Meetings, and for the Decision of Courses, by Stonehenge, With numerous Portraits of Greyhounds, etc., engraved on Wood, and a Frontis piece engraved on Steel. Square crown 8vo. price 21#. Stow. — The Training System, the Moral Training School, and the Normal Seminary or College. By David Stow, Esq., Honorary Secretary to the Glasgow Normal Free Seminary. Ninth Edition; with Plates and Woodcuts. Post 8vo. price 6*. Dr. Sutherland’s Journal of a Voyage in Baffin's Bay and Barrow's Straits, in the Years 1850 and 1851, per- formed by H.M. Ships Lady Franklin and Sophia, under the command of Mr. William Penny, in search of the Missing- Crews of H. M. Ships Erebus and Terror. with Charts and Illustrations. 2 vols. post 8vo. price 2/#. Swain.—English Melodies. By Charles Swain. Fcp. 8vo. price 65. cloth; bound in morocco, 12*. Swain.—Letters of Laura D’Au- verue. By Charles Swain. Ecp. Svo. 'is. 6rf. Tate.—On the Strength of Ma- terials ; containing various original and use- ful Formulae, speciallj applied to Tubular Bridges, Wrought Iron and Cast iron Beams, etc. By Thomas Tate, F.R.A.S. Svo. price 5#. 6d. Taylor.—Loyola: and Jesuitism in its Rudiments. By Isaac Taylor. Post 8vo. with a Medallion, price 10*. 6d. Taylor.-Wesley and Methodism. By Isaac Taylor. Post Svo. with a Por trait, price 10«. 6d. Thirl wall.—The History of Greece. By the Right Rev the Lord Bishop of St- David’s fthc Rev. Connop Thirlwall). An improved Library Edition ; with Maps. 8 vols. Svo. price £4.16#. Also, an Edition in 8 vols. fcp. 8vo. with Vignette Titles, price 28#. Thomson (The Rev.W.)—An Out- line of the Laws of Thought : Being a Treatise on Pure and Applied Logic. By the Rev. W. Thomson, M.A. Fellow and Tutor of Queen’s College, Oxford. Third Edition, enlarged. Fcp. Svo. price 7#. 6d. Thomson’s Tables of Interest, at Three, Four, Four-and-a-half, and Five per Cent., from One Pound to Ten Thou- sand, and from 1 to 365 Days, in a regular progression of Single Days; with Interest at all the above Rates, from Oue to Twelve Months,and from One to Ten Years. Also, numerous other Tables of F.xchanges, Time, and Discounts. New Edition. 12mo. 8#. Thomson’s Seasons. Edited by Bolton CornEy, Esq. Illustrated with Seventy-seven fine Wood Engravings from Designs by Members of the EtchingClub. Square crown Svo. price 21#. cloth ; or, 36# bound iu morocco. Thornton.—Zohrab 5 or, a Mid- summer Day's Dream: And other Poeins. Bv William Thomas Thornton, Author oi An E»*ay on Over-Population, etc. Fcp. Svo. price 4#. 6rf. Todd (Charles).— A Series of Tables of the Area and Circumference of Circles; the Solidity and Superficies of Spheres; the Area and Length of the Dia- gonal of Squares; and the Specific Gravity of Bodies, etc.: To which is added, an Ex- planation of the Author's Method of Calcu- lating these Tables. lutended ns a Facility to Engineers, Surveyors, Architects, Me- chanics, and Artiznns in General. By Charles Todd, Engineer. The Second • Edition, improved and extended. Post8vo. price 6#.