ALPHABETICAL CATALOGUE OF NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS PUBLISHED BY Messes. LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS, PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON. Miss Acton’s Modern Cookery- Book. —Modern Cookery in all its Branches, reduced to a System of Easy Practice, bor the use of Private Families. In a Series of Receipts, all of which have been strictly tested, and are given with the most minute exactness. By Eliza Acton. New Edition; with Directions for Carving, and other Ad- ditions, Plates and Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. price 7*• 6rf. Adams.—A Spring in the Can- terbury Settlement. By C. Warren Adams, Esq. With Five Illustrations. Post 8vo. pTice 5s. 6d. Aikin. — Select Works of the British Poets, from Ben Jonsou to Beattie. With Biographical and Critical Prefaces by Dr. Aikin- New Edition, with Supplement by Lucy Aikin ; consisting of additional Selections, from more recent Poets. 8vo. price 18*. Arnold. — Poems. By Matthew Arnold, Author of Poems by A. A New Edition, greatly altered ; With a Preface. Fcp. 8vo. price 5*. 6d. *** Afore than one-third of the contents of this volume consists of Poems now first published. Austin.—Germany from 1760 to 1814; Or, Sketches of German Life from the Decay of the Empire to the Expulsion of the French. Reprinted from the Edin- burgh Review; with large Additions. By Mrs. Austin. Post 8vo. [Nearly ready. Joanna Baillie’s Dramatic and Poetical Works, complete in One Volume: Comprising the Plays of the Passions, Miscellaneous Dramas, Metrical Legends, Fugitive Pieces, (several now first pub- lished), and Ahalya Baee. Second Edition, including a new Life of Joanna Baillie ; with a Portrait, and a View of Bothwell Manse. Square crown 8vo.21a. cloth or 42*. bound in morocco. Baker.—The Rifle and the Hound in Ceylon. By S. W. Baker, Esq. With several Illustrations printed in Colours, and Engravings on Wood. 8vo. price 14a. Balfour.—Sketches of English Literature from the Fourteenth to the Present Century. By Clara Lucas Bal- four. F<:p.8vo. /a. Bayldon’s Art of Valuing Rents and Tillages, and Tenant’s Right of Enter- ing and Quitting Farms, explained bv several Specimens of Valuations; with Remarks on the Cultivation pursued on Soils in different Situations. Adapted to the Use of Landlords, Land Agents, Ap- praisers, Fanners, and Tenants. New Edition; corrected and revised by John Donaldson. 8vo. 10a. 6d. Banfield.—The Statistical Com- panion for 1854: Exhibiting the most In- teresting Facts in Moral and Intellectual, Vital, Economical, and Political Statistics, at Home and Abroad. Corrected to the Present Time: and including the Census of the British Population taken in 1851. Compiled from Official and other Authentic Sources, by T. C. Banfield, Esq., Sta- tistical Clerk to the Council of Education. Fcp. 8vo. price 5s. Lord Belfast.—Lectures on the English Poets and Poetry of the Nineteenth Century. By the Right Hon. the Earl of Belfast. 8vo. price 6a. Gd. Berkeley.—Reminiscences of a Huntsman. By the Honourable Grantley F. Berkeley. With four Etchings by John Leech (one coloured). 8vo. price 14a. B e w 1 e y. — Decimal Interest Tables, calculated at 5 per Cent, from 1 Day to 365 Days, and from 1 Month to 12 Months, on from to <£40,000: To which are added, Tables of Commission, from ^ per Cent, to 5 per Cent, advancing by Eighths. By John Bewley. 8vo. price 21a.